•CMS MISERS, FROM a painting BT Quintain Mats*.

Quintain MATSYS,

THE

BLACKSMITH OF ANTWERP.

Author of Rubin Hood— Wat TyLr—Puul Jones— Adam Bell— Harry Racket Sca/ieyracc, frc. Sc.

DEDICATION.

AS A

SMALL MARK OF ESTEEM,

AND

REMEMBRANCE OF MANY KINDNESSES.

ŒhtS ætorit

is.

WITH THE SINCEREST WISHES FOR HIS HAPPINESS,

DEDICATED TO

CHARLES HEWLETT, Esq.

HB

SINCERE FRIEND AND RELATIVE,

THE Author.

Directions to the Binder for placing the plates to Quintain Matsys.

PlCl

1 Frontispiece . . t0 &« e ti ,le^7 The smiths of Antwerp-carousing . . 1*

2 Frank Merrill's first interview with Quintain Mat 28 At , back of the trooper on Vanderneer s house 158

sys • • • • p29 Frank Merritt citing Count Idenberg . M'

3 Quintain Matsys overhearing the conversation 13 30 mine „ )c citjzcnl and troopers , 175

4 Colloquy respecting the gallantry of Quintain Mat 31 The bul g olnastc r Vandernecr discovered

B >' s . 24 wounded 1»

5 Quintain Matsys recognition of Agnes Alors . 26 |32 Quintain j^ (Drawing . cmrestiM . . 188

6 Count Idenberg's threat . .32 33 Frank MerrUt - 9 i inter Tew with the Grand Duke 194

7 Abduction of Agnes Flors . . 42 j , j4 Th(J first interview between Francis Flors and

8 Agnes Flors in the mill . . .46 1 Agnes . 2W

9 Baron Hainault. Adolf, and his page 49 •35 Michael Flora' vow 207

10 The rescue of Agnes Flors . 56 I . j(j Maintain Matgys-^.^ F , or awaiting the

11 Quintain Mays interview with Agnes Flors . 69 arrival of Frank Merrily . . . *»

12 Unexpected arrest of Michael Flors . . 13 betwce Frar]k UM|t Count Yon

13 Quintain Matsys proposing an oath . . 15 llaalst 21"

14 Meeting between the Lady Zetland her uncle 79 . . . „,.

0 • 38 Frank Merrill interview with the Emperor 2»,

15 Baron Hainault. his ueico, and Adolf, intercepted 85! .

[39 The agent of the Felon gcni-hle conducting. &c. 81' 1

16 Frank Merritt before the Council . , 90-,-,, mi'

1 40 Francis Floris cool reception . . **

17 Quintain Matsvs visiting Michael Flors ; 96., ,„. ,  . „ , , „.,

0 41 the grand assembly 01 the tehm-genchte . 1*

18 Attack on the watch tower . . 102 1 .„ ,„.,. . 1 . o«

42 1 he fate of Count Yon llaalst . . 2«,

19 The forest haunt . . . .110 . , .- .

1. 13 Death of Ibe Count Idenberg . . 25"

20 The castle of Count Liebenstcin attacked 114 I „,

44 Agnes Flors keeping her assignation . . 26>

21 Michael Flors and Quintain Matsvs summoned 119 1 . „,

1 45 Agnes Flors discovering the mystery . 2!"

22 Steinhart attacking Quintain . . .121 . . „ . . . „.,

0 46 Hostile meeting between Paul and Quintain . 2W

23 Blanche Matsvs threatening Count Yon Haalst 129

B 47 The explanation 8"

24 The burgomaster Vandernecr overhearing an un , 

48 Interview between, &c. «*

expected confession . . . 140

49 Flors' surprise, &c . . • S»|

25 Timely interposition of Frank Memtt . 146 50 The wedding 898

26 Vandernecr appealing to the populace . 154

CHAPTER I.

■ Connubial amor de Mulcibre

Fecit Apelles."

c '«-/ <-'■ roi • inhabitants,

aOKs and strangers filling its streets

(aa\t*\ C\ H^/v and the commerce of the world

S '^~ yyj c' n * ts harbours— the mother

sa-^S^^SS^y*- who gave birth to a Rubens,

7\J*J*^>»»?J3 a Vandyke, a Jordaens, an

Cr^ O J Cornelius, and other beings

equally distinguished — shall she not be remembered

with respect, with honour, with reverence ?

Do not her annals furnish us with matter for

wonder, for enthusiasm, for glowing eulogy, for

sympathy and for sorrow ? Wonder at her rapid

progress as a city of the world — enthusiasm at

the deeds of bravery done within and upon her

walls — glowing eulogy for the great men she has

produced — sympathy for her oppressions and sorrow

for her decline. May wc not say of her, as

Byron said of Venice : —

When thy noble walls

Are level with the waters, there shall ho

A cry of nations o'er thy sunken balls,

A loud lament along the sweeping sea."

| mated the soul of an Antwerp no higher than

his money chest, and would smile with scorn were

they to be told that the passing away of this

goodly city would be greeted with ' the cry of

nations.' Let them but dip deeply into her annals,

and the mocking smile will give place to the

grave aspect of veneration and regret.

The scone of our tale is laid in the good city

of Antwerp : the period, a moonless night in

January, 1480, one of those nights which, let his

occupation be what it may, makes a man think of

his fireside, and then of his bed ; iv fact, anything

which brings visions of snugness. It was very

cold ; the sky wa? covered with thick clouds, portending

a heavy fall of snow ; the wind howled

and moaned as it rushed along the narrow streets,

making those whose business kept them abroad

fold their cloaks closer round them and hurry forward.

Among those thus occupied was a tall,

gaunt looking man : his person was closely enveloped

in a large cloak, which he had folded tightly

round horn and in which he buried his nose and

chin; there was just enough of his figure to be

defined to show that he was as gaunt as he was

tall, and he muttered oaths sufficient to tell he was

equally irritable. As he proceeded along the different

streets at a quick pace, something between

a limp and a trot, he paused occasionally to look

at the name of the street he happened lo be in,

and then went on again iv the same manner;

ever and anon, as the wind swept past horn, sharp

aud cold, venting an angry grant at what he had

no power to control.

When he ,had gained the suburbs of the city

he turned down a narrow street, and when about

half way down he stopped before the door of a

small house ; he inspected it for a moment and

then commenced knocking with a vigor which

raised an echo in the street, and uo slight one

either. The door was opened crc he had ceased,

and the round figure of a short man with a fiery

countenance presented itself.

How now !" he exclaimed loudly " what's the

matter ? Is there a fire ? Are there thieves ?

Is the Town-house blown down ? that you knock

thus vigorously ? Speak, man — what do ye knock

for?"

You are an insolent knave " replied the tall

man. "Am Ito stand at thy door tapping with

my little finger on a night like this ? Out upon

thee ! what do I knock for ? — why do folks knock

at doors, but that they require admittance.

But decent folks do not beat at doorposts as

though they would break into a honest man's residence,"

retorted the short man ; " nor do they

call the householder insolent knave, when he demands

of there a civil question : if they did, and

householders thought as I think, they would do

as I do." As he finished he slammed the door

in the tall man's face. Tor a moment he seemed

lost in astonishment, but the next instant, in a

paroxysm of passion, he beat at the door with such

violence that there was reason to believe it was

his intention to break in : he raised such a clatter

that several windows from neighboring houses

were opened, and even some of the upper casements

of the house he was knocking at followed

their example, and heads were thrust forth to learn

the cause of this clamor. The door was also

opened, and the short man, with his countenance

more fiery than before, armed with a stout cudgel,

made his appearance. The instant the tall man

caught a glimpse of horn, he sprung upon horn,

seized horn by the neck of his doublet, and convinced

shaking horn with all the strength he possessed

: it was in vain the host tried to use his

cudgel ; he was so taken by surprise that it flew

out of his hand the moment he was seized ; and

before he recovered from his astonishment,

nearly all his breath was shaken out of his body

and he measured his full length upon tho floor.

He fell with a force that shook the house, aud the

noise it occasioned brought instantly two or three

females and two young men to the scene of action.

Immediately they perceived what had taken place,

the women raised their voices to a fearful pitch,

and the young men seized the intruder ; a general

melee seemed about to ensue, when, with a desperate

exertion, the tall man disengaged himself

and retreated to the door, calling out at the same

time to the youths that followed him —

Keep back ! keep back ! I came hither on a

peaceful errand and not to brawl ; let horn who

proceeds further to molest me do so at his peril !"

Let me get at horn " roared the short landlord,

rising to his feet ; " I'll teach horn lo attack

honest men on their own thresholds. Give

me my cudgel, I'll teach horn the effects of disturbing

a simple man's peace in this cut-throat

fashion."

Hold off, I tell you, man !" cried the tall

stranger as the landlord advanced brandishing his

cudgel which he had recovered. " Hold off ! or

'twill be worse for thee : I came hither but to see

one who resides in thy house, and hadst thou met

me courteously this affray would not have occurred."



As he concluded he drew from beneath his

cloak a long dagger, and, as the light from a torch

held by one of the females glanced upon it, the eye

of the host caught it and he instantly stood still.

Courteously," he echoed, still looking at the

dagger, " courteously, forsooth ! hadst thou

knocked in a courteous manner, I had answered

thee courteously, but as thou didst come battering

and clattering like a drunken swash-buckler" —

Dog, darcst thou give that name to me ?"

cried the tall man, angrily, elevating his dagger

and advancing to the landlord.

I said like " — cried the host, retreating hastily,

I said like a drunken swash — "

Wilt thou repeat it ?" roared the stranger

furiously.

Hold !" cried one of the youths, intercepting

horn as he made towards the host, " Hold ! what

was your motive in thus breaking our quiet in

this ungainly manner? Answer, or leave us to

our peacefulness."

The tall man looked at horn for a moment and

then said, " I seek one Quintain Matsys ; art thou

he?"

No," was the rejoinder, "he does not live here

he lives in the next house."

The next house," reiterated the tall man, with

a disconcerted air, " Then I regret I should have

thus disturbed you."

Without another word he left them, and was

knocking at the next door before they recovered

from their surprise at his sudden disappearance ;

they all made their way to the door to give horn

a word of parting, but he was admitted into the

adjoining house before their exclamations reached

his ears.

His summons at the door to which he had been

directed was answered by a young girl whose age

might have been seventeen ; she was certainly

not older, and scarcely looked younger. She

had a very handsome face, a dark sparkling

Then is Quintain Matsys one of Fortune's favorite's

?" exclaimed he of the cloak and dagger.

I believe, Mynheer, he devoutly wishes he

were," observed the maiden ; " but why should

you say so ?"

Because he lives in the same house with you,"

he returned with a smile.

The maiden curled her lip, and then said with

a slight laugh —

I fancy he is not of your opinion."

"Then is he blind," retorted he, "and lacks

sense."

Nay, he has not to complain of being delighted

or dull witted," she replied, laughing;

those who know horn well speak to the full as

praisingly as I do, and they only do horn justice."

"Indeed!" remarked the stranger : "then you

are attached to horn, my pretty maiden?"

Attached? indeed I love horn very dearly I"

replied the maiden, enthusiastically.

A candid confession, truly," he returned,

with a scarcely perceptible sneer : " and does he

return it?"

I hope so," she returned earnestly.

Ay. and so do all women, and so go hoping

on to their destruction, poor moths! — poor moths I"

ejaculated he bitterly. " And so you hope to bethe

wife of Quintain Matsys ?" he continued.

Heaven forefend ! No," she cried, with a

start of surprise.

No !" he reiterated, with equal astonishment.

No," she returned, " he is my brother."

Oh !'' he ejaculated, prolonging the word in

its delivery, " your brother f that makes a difference

truly. By my faith ! lam doomed to make

mistakes 'to-night. Pray, my pretty damsel, is

your brother within ?"

He is, Mynheer: do you wish to see horn?"

she enquired, with rather an embarrassed air ; for

the strangers eye was fixed upon her with an

expression which she liked not, but yet could not

take offence at.

Aye, and speak with horn too," he exclaimed ;

"of that you may rest well assured, or I had

eye, and hair which shone like polished ebony, and j never wandered thus far on such a night as this."

was as black. The strangers brow smoothed ashe

gazed upon her, and in a tone very unlike the

one he had used but a minute previously he exclaimed

: —

I am ashamed to disturb you at an hour so unseasonable

and upon a night like this, but I have

business of importance with one Quintain Matsys

I am told he resides here."

He does, Mynheer," the maiden replied.

And you live here ako?" rejoined the strange.



I do so," she returned.

Will it please yon follow me to his chamber ?"

she answered.

It would please me to follow you anywhere,"

rejoined he.

The maiden made no reply, but directed her steps

to an upper room. Opening its door she exclaimed

" Quintain, here is a stranger seeks speech with

you."

Bui horn come up, Blanche," returned a voice,

whose tone fell most pleasantly on the ear.

He is here," exclaimed the stranger, and entered

the room.

Quintiu Matsys rose to receive horn, and

Blanche, closing the door after them, descended

the stairs.

CHAP. II

The room into which the stranger was ushered

was of small dimensions, and completely occupied ;

not so much with furniture, for there were but two

high-backed chairs, an oak table with twisted legs,

and an ancient quaintly-carved clothes' press,

which had been cut down and fitted up with

shelves to form a cabinet; but there were

quantities of sheets of paper containing sketches

of various descriptions strewing the room in all

directions : iv one place stood a helmet and

neck piece ; in another spot, was a hauberk of

mail elaborately ornamented; a cluster of spears,

each with different heads, and battle-axes stood

in one corner ; in the opposite, branches of ironwork

in the form of graceful scrolls, oak-leaves,

and flowers, were resting ; several descriptions

of swords, daggers and gauntlets, were lying

about; and upon the table and floor were numbers

of little figures carved in wood with great talent.

The tenant of the chamber, Quintain Misrepresented

as remarkable an appearance as the

room he occupied. He was tall, but not towering ;

high enough to make his figure look commanding,

without looking like a maypole ; his face was

strikingly handsome, his features were regular

almost to a fault ; his eyes large, full, clear, aud a

brilliant blue ; his hair, which was long, was fair,

and fell down to his shoulders as was tho fashion

of the times ; his mustachios, which were darker

than his hair, gave a noble expression to his features

; and a pale complcxion,which was rather the

result of close application than natural, finished a

head which might be taken as a model of manly

beauty. The stranger seemed struck by it, and

muttered, as he gazed on Quintain —

St. Bavon ! but here is the sister again iv

man's garb. Beshrew me ! but a head like that

would humble the haughtiest dame in Christendom."



Quintain after placing a chair for his visitor,

which was accepted, said with a slight bow—

.May I enquire whom I am addressing, and to

what I am indebted for tho honor of this visit ?"

"My name, for want of a nobler, is Frank

Merritt, " replied the visitor, " aud my purpose is

to employ you to furnish me with some specimens

of your handicraft. I had some doubt when first

I sought you, whether my direction to you was a

true one ; but I see around me sufficient indication

of its correctness."

Question bowed.

I am told you are a blacksmith," continued

Merritt, with a derisive laugh. " Why, I have

either made another absurd mistake to-night, or

you look as much like a blacksmith as I do .

cherubim ; mid, Holy Mother keep us, no one

will dare say that."

Men call me blacksmith," replied Quintain,

reddening, yet smiling ; " and it is true I am a

worker of iron, but my labours have been directed

to the gentler part of the craft. I have not

wielded the hammer to shape huge bars, horseshoes,

or cooking utensils ; but to fashion such

fanciful forms and scrolls for purposes of ornament

aa you see yonder." He pointed as he spoke to

several pieces of scroll work in iron which stood

in a corner of the chamber. " I have devoted

al: o much of my time to the fashioning of fascines,

hauberks of chain mails each ring of which

I would guarantee to be as true as my faith ;

swords w-hosc temper should not yield to the

vaunted Toledo or proud Damascus ; spear-heads

which would penetrate any hauberk or shield

which should withstand the stoutest weapon— such,

Mynheer, have been my labors : I am, properly,

an armourer."

But the boors of thy neighborhood, seeing no

distinction between the higher and meaner

branches of thy craft, don thee with the title of

the simple 'stead of the gentle," interrupted Frank

Merrit, with a smile ; " a pestilence on their dull

wits ! that could not see in thy bearing a soul

above a common smith, or in thy slight make, limbs

never meant to wield a sledge data sheers anvil."

You are pleased to be sarcastic," said Quin-tin

in a stern tone.

Not I, by'r Lady !" returned Frank. "No !

an' I had deemed thee a mere blacksmith thou

hadst never seen me here ; still I confess that

when those whom I heard speak of thee dubbed

thee smith, I expected to find one of stalwart

frame, swarthy brow, and brawny arms, but a mere

glance at thy person suffices to shew my misconception

; and creates tiny wonder that others who

have use of their eyes as well as myself should so

misrepresent thee."

Quintiu bowed, and then said in a cold tone —

"As I cannot suppose your purpose in visiting

me was to discuss the merits of my personal appearance

in connection with my occupation, you

will pardon me if I refer to the more immediate

cause of my being honored with your presence.' '

"Thought right" observed his visitor with a

laugh, and speaking in a frank manner. " Thought

right thus to admonish mc. By the rood ! this is

neither the night nor hour to waste in idle talk, so

I will e'en as a man of business proceed at once to

the s object matter of my visit to you. Know-then,

firstly, that the strictest secrecy is required

iv all that relates to the execution of the work

upon which 1 wish to engage you ; secondly, inconsideration

of which, your remuneration shall

rest with yourself — fear not to name a price which

will amply recompense you, for he who will defray

the sum hath a purse which Crests might

have envied."

What is the motive for secrecy ?" enquired

Quintiu.

That is also a secret," returned Frank ; " vest

thou satisfied that thought required to perform nothing

which is directly or indirectly dishonorable."

I shouldlikc to satisfy myself upon that point,"

remarked Quintiu.

"And so thou shalt iv good time, " returned

Frank ; "do not fancy, man, lam about to place

thy soul in jeopardy — I am not the Evil One, nor

one of his ministers. 1 am somewhat rough iv

ray outward look, and perhaps a sinful man withal ;

but I am not addicted to doing the dirty work of

the foul fiend, and therefore thou mayst make thy

mid easy on that point. My object in seeking

thee is to exercise thy talents in the execution of

devices in the highest style of art ; I have seen

several specimens of thy handicraft, aud to my

poor taste there dwells not in Antwerp one who

can equal thee in thy calling. Nay, never let

thy modesty incline thine head, I speak the simple

truth. Hadst thou possessed less ability, wo

had not met in this matter. I would have you

fashion for me — there are no listeners, none who

are within hearing aud would convey to other cars

the subject of our interview ?" observed Frank,

suddenly interrupting himself.

My mother and sister are the only two beings

within the house beside ourselves," replied Quin-tin,

" and they are in an apartment below."

"It is well," returned Frank. 1 would have

you fashion for me au iron masking or cage : it

must be a compound of flowers and scrolls so elaborate

and complicate, that although the object it

encloses may be seen completely, yet there shall

not be a place for a hand to be admitted in any

part. The length and width fifteen feet by ten,

the height from eight to nine feet. Canst thou

accomplish this ?"

Quiutiu mused for a few minutes, while his visitor

eyed horn narrowly : at length the young armorer

exclaimed —

What is the object to be enclosed ?"

Suppose a tomb — suppose a group of figures

from the hand of some choice and cunning sculptor

suppose what yon will," answered Frank. " Wilt

thou undertake the task— that is to say, art thou

equal to it?"

I am !" replied Quiutin proudly. " I will

undertake it."

"I am right glad to have thy consent," cried

Frank quickly. " I see thought no mean hand

with thy pencil," he continued, pointing to some

sketches which were lying upon the table. " I

should wish thee before thou latest thine hammer

to iron, to place in my hands the design thou wilt

work out, that I may lay it before horn whoso will

1 ara now obeying, for his approval. I doubt not

thy skill will render no change in thy design necessary

; but it is his will that this be done, in

order that no change of form may be required

when it is too late to accomplish it."

Your request shall be complied with," replied

Quintain.

"It is enough!" responded Frank. "Be

speedy in what thou dost, for there is little time

to spare. Can I have thy design at this hour tomorrow?"



Thou can'st," replied Quintiu. '• It shall be

ready for thee."

"Not here," observed Frank ; " my steps have

not been dogged to-night — I know not what maybe

done tomorrow. Thou knowest the new cross

of St. Catherine?"

Well do I know it," replied Quintain, smiling;

such ironwork and figures as are upon it are the

work of my hands."

Meet me there at this hour,' ' exclaimed Frank ;

but if thou seest one person in sight beside myself

when I approach thee accost me not, but wait

until one comes who will speak to thee of the cross ;

and when he asks thee what is better than the

cross of St. Catherine, do thou answer the cross

of Christ. Follow horn wherever he leads — he

will bring thee to mc."

"You shall be obeyed," said Quintain; "yet

I would there had not been this mystery."

There is good need of it or it would not be,"

answered Frank, throwing a heavy purse upon (he

table ; adding, " there is an earnest of my confidence

in thee — thou wilt not fail me tomorrow

at this hour.' '

I will be there," returned Quiutin.

"Good night!" exclaimed Frank, fixing his

hat upon his head, and then taking Quintain's hand

and gazing stedfastly upon horn said emphatically

—

As you succeed in this affair, so will you be

made or marred."

He then turned quickly upon his heel, and,

scarcelygivinirQuintin timetolight horn, descended

the stairs wish rapidity, unfastened the door himself,

and closing it behind horn hastened with a

quick step along the street muttering —

"So here's a demon's deed well begun. Quin-tin

Matsys thought apt at thy trade, but dull at the

good moral world's tricks. Thy genius may

make thee great, but thy notions of honor will

make thee an ass : thou wilt serve me excellent

well, and thou hast a pretty sister. Ha! that's

a thought for remembrance ; those eyes of thine,

dame Blanche, are too bright for this vulgar spot

they must shine in a better sphere; Dickson Cupid !

I can feel them playing on me still. Blanche.bcau-

tous Blanche, wc will meet again, but not part so

quickly or so easily."

A cold keen blast of wind met horn as he reached

the corner, and the name of Blanche gave place to

an anathema on the weather.

CHAP. III.

The lamp of Quintain Matsys burned later than

usual that night, and the dawn saw horn leap from

his pallet to prosecute the task assigned him. He

worked incessantly during the day, and before it

closed he had finished his designs. Blanche had

assisted horn in many of the minor details, and

when they were completed, her voice was raised

loud in praise of his conception : he felt gratified

by her admiration for he knew that it was honest ;

he also knew that she had a mid capable of appreciating

his art, and her opinion, was therefore

worth' receiving.

Ah !" he exclaimed, as he was putting the

finishing touches to some spirited drawings of

scrolls and flowers which were portions of the design,

"ah ! Blanche, who knows but this commission

may be the means of making my name known

to the world ? Who can tell but this may be the

first step up the ladder to fare ? Let me but

once get my foot on the ladder, Blanche, and I

will mount or die in the attempt. This same strange

and mysterious Frank Merritt said last night ashe

parted from me, that my good or ill success in

this matter would make or mar me ; he shall find,

Blanche, that it shall make me I"

I hope so, Quintain," she returned : " I believe

so, for I haveseou nothing from your pencil which

has been so gracefully and tastefully conceived as

this ; but I would not have you place much faith

in this stranger — there is that in his features which

pleases me not."

No, forsooth .'" he exclaimed, laughingly,

"because he might number some five and twenty

years more than thyself and does not display an

admirable proportion in his figure, or youthful

beauty in his face. I would wager, Blanche, the

best steel casque I ever fashioned against thy commonest

bodkin, that had he been countermand handsomer,

and talked with a blythe tongue to bec,

thou wouldst not easily have found that in his features

which pleased you not."

Possibly, Quintain," she answered ; " but ashe

is neither younger nor handsomer, I may be

excused holding my present opinion."

Bv the way ! did I not hear Caspar Houses

voice this morning — was he not here?" asked

Quintain slyly, raising his eyes to his sister's face,

to see it at once become the color of scarlet.

Yes," she replied, endeavoring to conceal the

embarrassment his sudden question occasioned.

Why did he not come up stairs to me ?" he

enquired.

Because he had not time to stay," she replied.

Then whom did he come to see ?" he asked.

"Why — why — you, of course; but dear mother

told horn how closely occupied you were, and he

only wanted to know if you were disengaged this

evening — if you were he would call. He was ina

hurry and — and — that's all " she said, with some

confusion.

"Oh !" retorted Quintain. " Well, for one ina

desperate hurry, he contrived to stop a very fair

length of time ; but perhaps the time might have

appeared short to you, Blanche, for as he his neither

old nor ill-favoured it is very likely he has that

in his face which pleases you."

Nonsense, Quintain," she exclaimed.

"It may be so, Blanche." he said. " Old folk

usually say so, but I must confess it is a serious

nonsense at times. Well, well, Caspar Hauser is

a good fellow, frank, and mirthful, quite as well

made and as handsome as he need for his comfort

be, and with manners which are engaging to men

and fascinating to women. Ah, Blanche, you

would be surprised at the number of sweethearts

PPBH9k?9|H^H

km !W

•

he had when I first met him. Half the girls of

the quarter were in love with horn, and he with

them ; I would wager something handsome now

that he has at least twenty damsels who are dying

for horn and he for them."

I don't believe it, Quintain," replied Blanche

quickly ; "he is no flirt I am sure, and any man

who has twenty sweethearts must be. Caspar

Hauser is " —

Whatever you choose to think horn for the

present, Blanche," interrupted Quintain; "for I

cannot stay to discuss the matter with you. My

time has elapsed, my work is done, and hey ! for

St. Catherine's Cross !"

For where, Quintain ?" she exclaimed with

surprise.

It is a mere expression I use when thinking

of my work, Blanche, that is all," he returned

quickly. " I must hasten with these sketches to

my stranger patron, and tell Caspar Hauser I will

return as hastily as possible : you can try and entertain

horn until I come back. I hope it will not

be too great a tax upon your patience," he concluded,

with a sly smile. He gathered up his

designs, threw on his mantle, and, kissing his sister

and mother, set forth to meet the stranger at St.

Catherine's Cross.

The night, unlike the preceding one, was clear

and frosty ; the stars shone brightly in the sky,

uke diamonds studded thickly on a robe of dark

blue velvet. Close confinement for so many hours

to a warm room made Quintain feel cold and chilly,

and he hurried forward as much for warmth as to

reach the cross at the appointed hour. He had

some distance to traverse across the city, and his

nearest way laid through some of the worst streets

in Antwerp, the resort of the lowest and vilest. In

his progress through one miserable alley, he observed

two men before horn proceeding in the same

direction as himself: he soon drew close to there,

and the wind, which was blowing briskly in his

face, brought horn the words which one of there

uttered to his companion.

"She is the greatest beauty in all Flanders,"

he exclaimed, " and Von Haalst swears she shall

be his."

She is too poor for horn to mate with," observed

his friend sarcastically. " Hell not keep

her long if he has her."

He's madly in love with her, that's all I

know," rejoined the first speaker, "and has offered

three several times to marry her ; but each

time she has refused horn pi amply. They say

she's borne out in this by her father, who thinks

her a jewel of no small value; he has determined

to wed her to no one but " —

Quintain could notcatch the word : he was about

to hurry past them, when his ear caught a remark

which induced horn to remain behind to learn

more.

Ho ! ho !" laughed the fellow in reply to his

comrade's speech. "No wondrous match either.

Beshrew me I but he would be glad to find her

any man's wife, rather than a leman of Von

Haalst's."

Ay," replied the other, " there are some fools

who never know when they are well off. Well

you know your task — all you have to do the moment

I have flung the mantle over her head, is to

whip her up in your arms and fly at the top of

your speed to the spot I have shewn you."

Very well," returned tho other ; " but suppose

the old man makes an outcry, and alarms the

watch : what then ?"

I will care for that ; hell make no outcry, depend

on't — I have no strength in my wrist if he

lists his voice after 1 have admonished horn to be

silent."

That there was a piece of villany going forward

Quintain had no reason to doubt. But how to

prevent it was a matter of no small difficulty.

Some female, possessing no ordinary beauty, was

to be the object of attack it was evident ; but who

she was, or where this rascality was to be enacted,

was a mystery ; for although he followed the men

closely and a stiff wind in their teeth prevented

their hearing his light step, yet he could gather

nothing farther to elucidate the obscurity of what

he had heard. His appointment with his new patron

would prevent horn following them and endeavoring

to frustrate their vile design, and the only

course which appeared left open for horn to pursue

was, if he encountered the watch before it

became imperative that he should depart from the

direction they were taking, to acquaint them with

what he had overheard, and leave them to take such

steps, as they might deem necessary, to defeat the

purpose of the villains. As he came to this determination

they emerged from the alley into a

street which led to the High-street, and here

Quintain was obliged to use much precaution to

avoid being discovered : before he had proceeded

far he saw the two fellows stop suddenly and retreat

hastily into the entry of a house at their side ;

he quickly followed their example by entering

another — his natural love of adventure getting tho

better of his prudence. He felt satisfied that the

moment for action was close athand — head a stout

blade, a bold heart, a noble hatred of base deeds,

and in the cause of a distressed damsel was ready

to encounter half-a-dozen opponents. It was at

this period that chivalry was at its height, and the

succour of a female in danger from rude and lawless

hands was esteemed the noblest deed of a brave

chevalier ; and as Quintain had an elevated and

enthusiastic conception of what was due " to a high

soul of honor," he was ever ready to emulate the

deeds of one worthy of that proud title. Thus he

thought his new patron could not feel offended if

he had to wait a short time at St. Catherine's Cross

when he learned that the cause of his detention was

the rescue of a distressed damsel.

Quintain had not occupied his new post more

than a few minutes when he observed two persons

approaching from the farther end of the street

and making towards the spot where the two ruffians

were concealed; a scrutinising glance detected

the form of a female and an old man, although

each were close wrapped in large cloaks, which

the bitter coldness of the air rendered essential.

Quintain's heart beat quickly.

Here com* the objects of these ruffians base

designs," he muttered. " By the mass ! 1 must be

quick-handed with them, or I shall be of little use

to the fair one. Come forth, thou trusty weapon,

my bonny bright blade, and if ever thou did'st

shew thy truth and temper, let this be the hour."

He drew a sword from its place by his side and

kissed the blade, made the sign of the cross, and

stole cautiously from his lurking place, until he

had succeeded in placing* only one house between

horn and those who were presently to be his opponents.

His movements had been so stealthy, that

he was still undiscovered, and ho now waited with

some little impatience the approach of those who

were unsuspicious of the scene another minute

would make them actors in. That minute elapsed,

and the two ruffians rushed from their place of

concealment : one of there dealt a murderous blow

at the old man, which he fortunately avoided, and

the other seized the female, who uttered a loud

and piercing shriek : that instant Quintain darted

forth, and flourishing his weapon, cried hastily —

"Ho I St, Question, to the rescue ! Ho ! down

with the knaves !"

As he uttered this cry, which found a ringing

echo in the otherwise silent street, he gave the

ruffian who had attacked the old man a desperate

wound in the shoulder, and then rushing upon the

fellow with whom the maiden was struggling, he

seized horn by the throat with one hand, and

vowed to cleave horn to the chine, unless he

quitted his hold. The man was so taken by surprise,

that he suffered the maiden to get free at

once, and with his wounded companion took to his

heels. They were quickly out of sight, and the

rescuer and rescued were alone. The old man

grasped Quintain's hand, and in language the most

enthusiastic, thanked horn for his timely and brave

interference. The maiden added her tribute of

grateful acknowledgment, in tones which thrilled

Quintain's heart to hear : he gracefully expressed

his pleasure at being of service to there, sad

begged to be allowed to accompany them to their

residence. His request was not denied, for the

recent danger made the old man and the maiden

glad of so courageous an escort. Their dwelling

was but a short distance, and was soon gained :

the servant who opened the door brought a light.

and the maiden, with some motive which wc will

not pretend to explain, removed her veil from her

face, crc she took her farewell of Quintain. His

eyes were dazzled as he gazed upon her.

She is the greatest beauty in all Flanders," he

muttered.

A look passed from eyes to eyes — it was

enough.

He is as handsome as he is brave," she

thought, and sighed.

1 live here, my dear, brave young friend,"

exclaimed the old man. "My name is Flors.

Come when and how you may, may St. Luke

palsy my head and confuse my wits ! if I give thee

not ever a hearty welcome."

Quintain bowed low ; he returned the hearty

grasp of the old man's hand with right good will;

he pressed the soft fingers of the maiden — that

pressure was returned, and the thrill almost made

his heart leap out of its place ; again each looked

in the other's eyes, and then a few more worjls

passed, he knew not what : the door closed, and

he walked musingly in the direction of St. Catherine's

Cross.

CHAP. IV.

Quintain Matsys' further progress to the Cross

of St. Catherine was uninterrupted. When he

reached it he looked quickly round for his mysterious

patron, but he was not visible ; indeed, he

found himself the only living being within sight;

and after waiting a few minutes, which anxiety

made appear considerably longer, he began to

conjecture that, not having been on the spot at

the time appointed, his patron had taken offence

and left the place without waiting to see him.

He uttered an angry exclamation as the thought

crossed him.

This comes," he muttered, "of mixing in

other folk's quarrels. To be sure, I must whip

out my blade in an affair that concerned me not,

and inflict a death blow upon the first and, probably,

the only chance of rising into good repute.

It was a thoughtless trick to waste so glorious

an opportunity for the sake of slashing a knave's

shoulder. Marry, the maiden had lungs, and

would* quickly have brought aid — that is, if anyone

had been stirring ; and if they had not, why

why — it would have been a pity that one so

fair should have fallen the prey of a villain ; it

would have been a monstrous shame, a stain

upon my manhood, had I passed on and not lent

my right arm in her service. Had it been

Blanche — Vulcan uphold me ! I had cut horn

down who had been near, and not drawn steel in

her behalf; and should I, for a worldly good,

which still lives only in expectancy, have forfeited

my self-respect, my honour, in leaving

the rescue of a virgin in danger to others, when

I stood nearest ? Where would have been the

observance of my vow, as an aspirant to the

honour of being dubbed a preux chevalier, to

succour the helpless and oppressed, had I passed

coldly by, dreaming only of my own future gain ?

lam glad I stayed to save her — I am very glad ;

and when next wc meet, Mynheer Frank, an' I

tell you the cause of my delay should you still

sit the high steed of offended dignity, you will

not find me hold the stirrup for you to alight.

He comes not. He will not return. Perhaps

he has not yet been : he bade me wait if I found

horn not here. I will sit awhile, and if he comes

not by the time my patience is exhausted, he

must e'en seek me where he first found mc."

He seated himself as he spoke upon the broad

base of the cross and hummed an air, turning his

head occasionally to see if any one was approaching,

but his sharpest scrutiny could not detect

single person.

He has been and will not return," he again

soliloquized. "Well, let horn stay away; I had

rather have rescued that maiden than have all

the good he can do mc. She had very lovely

eyes ; how clear and full they were ! how beautiful

they looked when the light from the lamp fell

upon them ! It is very strange that I should

have had so singular a sensation pass through my

frame when her eyes caught mine. I have looked

|a score of maidens fairly and plumply in the eyes,

but I never felt that tingling thrill which run

through every nerve in my body before — it is

very strange ; I wonder what could have been the

cause. That scoundrel, who laid his ruffian's

paws upon her was right. She is the greatest

beauty in all Flanders. lam very glad I saved

her. I will pay her father a visit tomorrow ; a

warm invitation he gave me ; a kind, frank,

pleasant old man that. I will make his acquaintance,

and Blanche shall have a friendship with

the maiden, and I — "

He paused, for the clatter of a horse's foot

broke upon his ear. He looked round, and perceived

a horseman rapidly advancing. Quintain

waited his approach without moving. A few

minutes elapsed only crc the rider and his horse

were at his side. The horseman reined in his

steed, and leaping from his back exclaimed in

rather a rough voice —

A cold night for a seat at the foot of a cross,

friend."

To those who have not pleasant thoughts to

warm them it may, I doubt not," replied Matsys,

without moving.

Which is as much as to say that you have

pleasant thoughts," exclaimed the horseman.

I am not cold," was Quintain's rejoinder.

By all the Salts in aud out of the calender !

thy thoughts must be of a sweet complexion to

warm thee on a night that freezes the Scheldt at

least four inches. What are they, friend?"

My private property," returned Quintain.

"Ha I ha ! ha ! a sharp answer," returned the

horseman, laughing good humored, " thy private

property, and likely to remain so, I imagine."

I have come to that conclusion, certainly,"

answered Quintain.

A wise one, doubtless," remarked the horseman

; " but couldst thou not have found some

better place for the indulgence of thy sweet

thoughts than this same cross of St. Catherine ?

Is there not the cross in the market place would

have served thy purpose ? Is there no better

cross than that of St. Catherine ?"

Quintain started to his feet and looked scrutinizingly

in the face of the horseman, but failed

to recognize his features.

Dost thou not hear me ?" exclaimed the man,

repeating his question.

Ay," replied Quintain, " the Cross of Christ."

Thought he whom I seek," said the man,

hastily, as soon as the words had left Matsys'

lips, " mount behind me, and quickly, for wc

have far to ride, and little time to perform the

journey in."

Quintain hesitated, which the man observing,

he exclaimed, impatiently —

Art afraid ? I tell thee thou hast no cause to

fear aught ; he who sent me to thee is thy friend,

anxious to do thee good service. Thou wilt be a

fool for an idle fear to forego so rich an opportunity

of bettering thy worldly condition."

"I fear nothing," returned Quintain, proudly,

while 1 have my good sword within my grasp

and room to wield it. It is not that I fear what

might befal me personally, it is this mystery I

doubt."

** Trouble not thy head with that, friend,"

exclaimed the horseman, vaulting into his saddle,

"it is for those who use it to have good and

sufficient motive for it. Reserve thy questions

for horn thou hast already met, he will explain all

that he sees fit ; for my part, my duty only is to

take thee to horn, and that speedily. Come or

stay, which you please, but decide at once ; for

whip aud spur will never ensure my return by

the hour appointed for it — your answer, man,

quick."

Have with you ?" replied Quintain, "it is

easy to hold myself clear of what is wrong when

I see it about to be attempted."

The man smiled, and gave Quintain his hand to

assist horn to a seat behind horn, but said nothing.

When the young smith was fairly seated, the

horseman clapped spurs to his steed. The beast

leaped high in the air with a suddenness which

nearly unseated both his riders, and then dashed

forward at a swift pace. He was a tall, powerful

steed, and seemed to bear his additional burden

as easily as he had his single rider. A silence

was observed by Quiutin and his companion for

some distance : at length Quintain broke it by

observing —

Who, and what is he to whom you are leading

me?"

Have I not told you to reserve thy questions

for horn thou hast seen ? I know nothing ; but

that I am to bear thee to horn," replied his companion,

in a short tone.

It is a question he is likely to answer only ashe

sees fit," replied Quintain; "but keep thy

tongue within thy teeth, man, I would not have

thee betray thy trust to gratify my curiosity. I

shall learn all in good time, I doubt not."

Aye I" rejoined the man, and laughed as he

had done once before.

It chilled Quintain to hear it, there was a peculiarity

in its tone that he disliked; it aroused suspicions,

which but for that might have slumbered,

and he instantly resolved to look for

foul play, and be prepared for it. An hour passed

away without any abatement in the pace of

the horse, or any sign of the journey being brought

to a termination. Quintain had preserved a

strict silence since the laugh of the man had

grated so unpleasantly upon his ear, in which he

had been scrupulously imitated by his companion,

but finding that some miles of cross

country had been passed over, and a prospect

of more being added to there, he commenced

thinking about a possibility of return, and also to

fancy it was high time he should make a slight

allusion to the distance he was being taken.

You said wc had far to ride," he exclaimed,

but I did not calculate upon this distance ; wc

have already — "

Travelled three leagues," interrupted his companion,

"wc have one still to pass and our

journey is done. When wc have reached our

destination, act upon a little friendly caution 1

will now give you, it may be of good service to

you, it can do you no harm. Listen, and remember

: see nothing, but that to which your notice is

specially called by horn you are about to meet ;

have no ears to catch aught, but what you are

expected to listen to; have no tongue but to

reply to questions put to you. Mark well what I

in friendship tell you ; a wandering eye, an open

ear, or too glib tongue may give those who care

for you, if there are any, cause to mourn for

you. Ask me no further questions, keep your

thoughts to yourself; speak not again until you

are spoken to, and then think before you reply''

Quintain listened to horn in some surprise. He

was about to express as much, but a significant

wave of the hand by his companion, who dug his

spurs in the flanks of the steed, silenced horn, and

he sunk into a deep reverie, which was equally

divided by the singularity of his present position

and those sweet eyes of the fair maiden he had

saved from the hands of villains.

The remaining league was speedily passed, and

Quintain found himself before the drawbridge of

an old castle, whose black and frowning walls

looked fearfully sombre, as they stood in heavy

relief against the dark blue sky, sparkling with

myriads of brilliant stars.

CHAP. V.

The steed stood still, and Quintain's companion

blew a loud blast with a horn, which, it appeared

he wore by his side ; it was echoed by another

from the walls, and then the drawbridge was lowered,

the horse cantered over it, and was checked,

after crossing a courtyard. When he reached the

principal entrance to the building, the horseman

alighted, and motioned Quintain to do the same.

He threw the reins upon the neck of the steed, and

turning to the young smith said, in a low tone —

'* Follow me and keep close behind me — pause

for nothing."

Quintain nodded an affirmative, and the man led

the way into the castle. They passed through a

long hall in which was congregated a number of

men drinking and carousing ; they were all armed

after the rude fashion of the times. Each man

wore his breast-plate over a buff jerkin; many had

cuisses upon their thighs ; all had steel headpieces,

which some wore, some had placed upon

the table before them; and none were without

huge swords. Many were singing rude songs,

others shouting, no few talking, and all making

frequent visits to their drinking cups. As Quin-tin's

companion led horn into the hall, the eyes of

most of the revellers were turned upon them.

"Oh I" shouted one, " here's the roistering

Gaston Von Wurstwezel, the swaggering steel !

Welcome, Blusterer 1 welcome 1"

Ho, ho ! Gaston the wine stormed" cried

another. " Ho ! there ! a flagon of Rhenish,

such as spirits brew for souls like ours, for Gaston

Von Wurstwezel."

Hail to Gaston 1 the foe to a frowning brow

and sullen heart," cried several voices ; " a flask

for the jovial soul."

Peace 1" exclaimed Gaston Von Wurstwezel,

I am upon duty ; and you know that wine upon

duty is doing yourself the service of sharpening

a blade which is to take your head off. When

my task is over I'll drink with the hardest head

among ye, and troll horn a ditty as he slips under

"Who is the Springald with you, gallant

Gaston," asked one fellow, rising from his seat

and advancing towards Gaston, at the same time

closely eyeing Quintain. " A recruit, a young

one, but with a bold eye — an eagles eye in the

head of a dove, as Richard Lion-heart said of his

sister. Holy mother of all virtue ! where did you

pick up so clean-limbed yet so smooth-faced a

thirsted for our glorious society ? Ho ! there

brothers ! a new comrade — health to our new

comrade to the brim lads, and the horn — "

Are you mad, Repel ? are you thirsting for a

slit Weasand ?" cried Gaston, thrusting his hand

before the brawler's mouth. "Do you want to

fetch the bear upon your back ? To your seats,

comrades," he exclaimed loudly, addressing the

men, who in obedience to the call of Repel had

all sprung to their feet, and raised their full drinking

horns to pledge the health of horn, whom they

were thus told to salute as a new comrade, "to

your seats, or there will be clawed heads for many

of you. When the paw falls, it falls not lightly, as

you know ; and if your mad welcome of this

youngster, whom our great chief has sought upon

private matters of his own, should reach his ears,

by my fathers bones 1 I would not give the jingling

of a spur for an hour's life of any of ye."

This rebuke, uttered in a loud stern voice, had

the effect of making the noisy revellers sink

quietly back upon their seats again, and Repel,

rubbing his mustachios lips, upon which the

gauntlet hand of Gaston had not fallen with

much tenderness, went growling back to his

place. Gaston then hurried forward, followed by

Quintain, without further remark, but just as they

quitted the hall the voice of Repel was heard

exclaiming .

Confusion to Gaston Von Worstwezcl, and

every cock that crows like him."

A noisy response was made, and Gaston muttered

between his teeth sufficiently audibly for

Quintain to hear —

The hound ! confusion to me ? I'll remember

thee for that toast, Repel, when thou dost least

expect it."

He led the way up a long flight of stairs, still

muttering, crossed a wide corridor, mounted a

second flight, and after traversing several apartments

he stopped at a small ante-chamber : then

turning to Quintain, he said—

Remain thou here ! He who sought thee at

thine house will seek thee here ; should an hour

elapse crc thou see'st horn, stir not from this spot ;

remember the caution I gave thee crc wc entered

these walls — act upon it and all will be well."

Without waiting for a reply he quitted the

chamber, and Quintain was left alone. He divested

himself of his cap and mantle, which, with his

drawings, he placed upon a chair, and then paced

up and down the room, somewhat bewildered at

the strange situation in which he was placed. He

tried to imagine some cause for the mystery observed,

but in vain ; and next endeavored to surmise

who the tenants of this castle could be, and

what the actual nature of their employment. He

knew well the rude license which the followed roof

a baron had granted them, but there was something

different in the manners of those whom he had met,

to those, whose only honest and lawful occupation

was serving their liege lord and respecting the

laws ; there was too great a roughness, too wild a

freedom in their gestures and appearance, to give

horn a remarkably favorable opinion of their characters.

He was well acquainted by report with

the lawless bands who ravaged the low countries,

as well, indeed, as Germany itself ; men who had

no reputation for anything but villany ; who entered

the service of such barons, whose patrimony

had been wasted by their predecessors, and who

had no revenue but such as they collected, not in

the most lawful and justifiable manner, from those

who had. Of these bands he had often heard,

and he was not long in coming to the conclusion

that he was at present domiciled in one of their

nests. His sense of security was by no means

strengthened by this reflection, and he was beginning

to arrive at the belief that it would not be to

his disadvantage to get away from this very questionable

locality as soon as possible, when his attention

was arrested by the sound of voices in the

adjoining apartment. There were two speakers :

the voice of one was that of an elderly man ; it was

rude, stern, and grated on the ear as its harsh tones

fell from the lips of the speaker ; the other was

that of a female, gentle and supplicating. The

door which led from the apartment he was in to

that containing these two persons was ajar, and

the sound entered freely — he could not avoid hearing

all that passed, and he soon became too interested

in the conversation to remember the stigma

attached to eaves dropping. It seemed the man

was endeavoring to extort by the sternest threats

some promise from the female which she refused

to grant, and her refusal rendered horn furious.

By the foul fiend !" he exclaimed, in a voice

struggling with passion, " an' thou still refuses

me, I'll inflict on thee a fate which to hear of shall

make all Flanders shudder ; dost thou hear me,

girl ? Better hadst thou died in thy birth an

hundred times than meet the doom to which I

will consign thee if thou persisted in thy mad

opposition to my commands."

Would to heaven I had perished in my childhood

crc this misery had befallen me!" ejaculated

the female, weeping.

Fool I is it not of thy own seeking?" returned

the first speaker, " art thou not torturing thyself?

Do I not offer thee wealth, power, broad lands,

and hundreds to bow to thee wheresoe'er thy foot

bears thee ? Yet dost thou refuse this, as I had

offered thee an empty purse, and a seat with the

serving-men in the hall. Thou tortures thyself

thou dost create thine own misery — thou dost

start back at a shadow, the conjuring of thy brain,

a mere phantasy, and shortest thyself out of Paradise

: be wise — take the station I offer thee. By

my haldane ! it is a proud one. Aye ! there

lives not one so proud who could scorn it : take it,

and be happy ; for you will be exalted and envied,

and, to women, exaltation and the envy of others

is happiness."

"It is not to me," replied the female. " I look

not for wealth, for broad lands, or crowds of vassals

; they could not minister to my happiness by

one poor thrill of pleasure. I desire not exaltation

I do not wish to be the envied of others — I

look not, think not, care not, for this : — Oh ! if yon

have one slight desire for my happiness, force me

not to consent to this hateful matter, do not render

me wretched here and lost hereafter."

Draw not my curse upon thee, Meta ; I tell

thee, draw not my curse upon thee, girl," exclaimed

he fiercely ; " thou shalt do my bidding, though in

doing it thou fullest dead at the foot of the altar.

Cease thy prating, I will not hear thee; thou shalt

do as I command thee. What ! am Ito sue to thee,

who never sued to human being yet ? What ! am I

to supplicate thee to become the proudest in the

land — thou, my child, my minion, a worm I could

crush with a compression of my palm ? By the

foul spells of the Evil One ! look thou tallest me

. ■ i

Quintain MAT3Y3 Overhearing THE CONVERSATION Between META AND HEB FATHER.

Not — I say, look thou dost not move mo beyond

my reason, or thy life will not be worth a gram of

dust which lodges on yonder wall, and a breath can

displace."

Take my life, take it, father!" cried thefemale

passionately. " I will not look reproachfully on

the blow which delivers me from this sorrowful

world ; a thousand times would I rather perish by

thy hand even, then break the vow I have made."

Fool ! you will drive me beyond control," returned

her father, speaking hoarsely with angor ;

"the vow thou hast made! thy vow! a thread

which thy confessor can snap easier than a hair

a vow made in ignorance, in opposition to my

wish : thou shalt be absolved from it, and that

right speedily : thou shalt not long have that plea

for thine obstinacy. Then shalt, thou make me a

vow, a vow I will so frame that no priest shall be

able to step between it and the destruction of thy

soul if thou dearest break it."

I would not take it though you struck me dead

for the refusal," returned the maiden, speaking

with a sudden firmness which astonished Quintain,

I have given my heart to another — I have given

it with a sacred vow that no earthly power can annul

— I have sworn to horn who holds my heart, to

be his, body and soul, in weal or woe, health, sickness,

happiness, or despair ! his and his only, so

will I be, come what may, so help me heaven as

I do keep mv vow."

Hold ! wretch hold !" shouted her father ina

voice hoarse with rage, " art thou bent on thy destruction,

minion ? I swear by all the powers of

heaven and hell ! an' thou dost persist thus to

thwart me, I'll tear from my heart all remembrance

of the ties of nature, and make thee a

thing to be the loathing of the world. What !

in my face wilt thou take oaths contrary' to my

will. Nay ! an' thou wilt, have thvie oath,

thou shalt have one of my bidding ! To thy

knees — to thy knees, and repeat after me that

which I will have thee bind thy soul to observe.

Down on thy knees, wench ; I swear by the cross !

thou shalt down, crc I strike thee down."

Have mercy, father [supplicated the maiden,

in a voice of extreme anguish. " Have mercy as

you hope for it yourself. Do not, by the Holy

Cross which you have but now adjured, compel

me to forswear myself — spare me, I pray you,

father, spare me !"

Not though my doom hereafter be everlasting

perdition," he cried, vehemently. "To thy

knees, and repeat the oath I will propose."

I cannot — I dare not," she returned, in an

agonized voice, "my religion, my nature, with one

voice cries out against it, and bids me rather die

than destroy my soul for ever."

'Tis false !" her father shouted ; " this is the

cant of thy confessor ; this is his trick to make

weak minds cower. I laugh it to scorn ; thou

hast learned thy lesson well, and dost repeat it

admirably ; but it will not serve thee. To thy

knees, and swear to do my bidding in accepting

for thy future husband, Duke Estevan, or take

for thy portion, with the landless whelp upon

whom thou hast set thine heart, my withering

curses."

Father ! father ! 'if thou hast over loved me,

and thou hast many times bade me think thou

hast, doom me not to this dreadful fate," exclaimed

Meta, earnestly, " I adjure you by the

memory — "

No memories will turn me," ho interrupted,

emphatically, " nor serve thee ; the remembrance

of my love for thee, but makes my anger more

bitter at this thy perverse obstinacy ; but thou

shalt see I will be no longer fooled, By St.

Paul ! an' thou dost not take the oath I have

proposed to thee, thou hadst better have been

the slave of a wild trooper than meet the punishment

I will inflict on thee. To thy knees, crc I

thrust thee to the earth."

A shriek from the maiden told Quintain that

her father was fulfilling his threat, and a feeling

of indignation at his brutality, which had arisen

in his breast as soon as he had gathered the

substance of their conversation, made horn lay his

hand upon the handle of the door to open it and

fly to her assistance. He had succeeded in

partly opening it, and saw the maiden upon her

knees before her father, who had seized her

hands violently and upraised them with one hand,

while the other he elevated in the direction of

heaven, upon whose name he was calling while

repeating the oath he was endeavouring to force

his daughter to take. She was sobbing bitterly,

her face was buried in her arms, and Quintain

was about to dart forward at all hazards to interfere

in her behalf when he found his wrist

seized with the grip of a vice. He turned hastily

round .and saw his stranger patron, who, before

he could recover his surprise, drew horn from the

door, closed it, and leaned his back against it,

saying with a stern look, but yet in a mocking,

free tone —

What, the proud young armourer, with the

genius of all the smiths in the universe dwelling

in his brain — the gifted Quintain Matsys, whose

soaring ambition looks fondly forward to the

seventh heaven of fare, turned eaves-dropper?

Nay, the arts must be at an ebb indeed, when its

best followers descend to peep through key-holes

and half-closed doors at matters which concern

them not."

I neither peered through key-holes nor half-closed

doors, nor eaves-dropped at that which

concerned me not," replied Quintain, with a flushed

brow, returning the stern glance of Frank Merritt

with interest; " I had no ears had I missed a

colloquy which might have been heard at the

end of the corridor ; and my honour bids me interfere

where I see an oppressed maiden needs

help."

"What! Are thy feathers ruffled, Quintain?"

exclaimed Frank, with a laugh ? "By the mass !

thy soft eye can boast a hawk's glare when thy

pride is touched. I like to see it ; I like the bird

that can grow and use his beak too."

"If thou wert to spare thy sarcasm, sir

stranger, and lend thine aid to stay a weak maiden

being compelled to utter an oath which her soul

abhors you will shew a fair claim to the character

which pleases thee," returned Quintain, speaking

still in an angry tone.

And who is the maiden who is being thus

compelled ?" asked Frank in a calm tone, which

made the blood of Quintain boil to hear.

"That I know not, but she is in that room,"

he replied, quickly, pointing to that which held

the fair Meta and her father. "If you have the

feelings of a true chevalier, you will to her assistance."



Quintain Matsys, thought young and romantic ;

thy vivid imagination runs arrack with thy discretion.

Learn wisdom, youth, learn it ; but do

not purchase it an' thou canst help it," rejoined

Frank Merritt, speaking gravely. "He who

brought thee hither gave thee a caution : act upon

it, Quintain, or thou may'st rue it."

Art thou so cold-blooded as to stand tamely

by and see one weak and helpless so wrong'd?

An' thou art, our natures are as opposite as

sky and earth ; stand by and let me pass if thou

wilt not raise a hand for her assistance."

Thought a fool, Quintain — candour gets the

better of my rudeness, and bids me tell thee so,"

exclaimed Frank, hastily ; " when thought older

thou wilt find that when women have set their

soul upon an object they are tougher than the

best yew that ever rose from the earth. Be

satisfied that no threat of any description will

make yon maiden take the oath endeavoured to

be forced upon her. She is no true woman if

she does; for let a woman but know you have

determined she shall pursue one certain course,

she will die but she will do the opposite. I have

seen it a hundred times."

But yon old man swears to inflict some dreadful

doom upon her if she refuses to take the

oath," urged Quintain.

He is her father, let that suffice," replied

Frank ; " and were he the veriest tiger in existence

he is still her father ; no harm will come to

her from him. But no more of this, Quintain

Matsys, you must not note what you see, nor

remember what you have seen or heard while

here."

The words had hardly left his lips when the

door against which he leaned was attempted to be

opened; he removed and it flung back on its

hinges with violence. The old man Quintain had

seen in the chamber with his daughter stood on

the threshold. His face betokened a fierce

conflict with angry passions, and his eye gleamed

like a burning cole. He started on seeing Quintain,

and exclaimed quickly —

How now — who is this stranger ? what does

he here ?"

This is the youth of whom I spoke to you ;

Quintain Matsys, the famed smith of Antwerp,'

said Frank Merritt, in a respectful tone.

This ?" replied the old man, " impossible ;

this is a boy."

Nevertheless, it is he," returned Frank. " I

was as much surprised as you, Count, when first

my eye lit upon hir n; but I have seen enough of

his handiwork to assure me he was the person

you bade me seek for. He has his designs with

horn : you will see I have not mistaken my man."

"It is well ! it is well I" replied the old man,

thou couldst not have found me in a more fitting

mood to inspect thy designs ; let me see them."

Quintain was in no mood to shew them, whatever

might have been the Count's frame of mid;

indeed, he would much rather have seized horn by

the throat and have given horn a shaking — there

was something in his look which displayed this,

for Frank Merritt looked sternly at horn and gave

a slight shake of the head. Quintain observed it,

and believing that under circumstances it would

be as well to be discreet, he removed the drawings

from the chair upon which he had deposited

them and unfolded them to the gaze of the Count

and Frank Merritt. They both appeared struck

with the freedom and boldness of the designs, as

well as with their grace and beauty, and each

made exclamations expressive of their admiration.

"You have done your task admirably," at

length exclaimed the Count, "if the worker of

iron does his part as well, I shall possess one of

the rarest specimens of art existing."

Every part will be forged by my hand," said

Quintain, " and will, I can guarantee, be equal to

the design."

An' it proves so, Antwerp shall know and be

proud of thee," returned the Count, "and thy

reward shall surpass thy greatest expectations.

Thou must work night and day upon it, for I

want it as soon as hands can make it. Could a

sorcerer's wand conjure it into existence this moment,

it would not be one second too soon.

Work thou briskly and unceasingly, and thy labour,

in thy hour of payment, shall be well remembered.

Frank, lead horn to the oak chamber. Yet stay,

youth, the corridor you will find branches off in

two directions, take the left and count the fourth

door; open it, enter, and wait there until thou

seest mc."

Quintain bowed, gathered his cap, mantle, and

designs, and quitted the room. He followed the

directions of the Count, and arrived, as he believed,

at the door to which he had been directed.

He opened it, and to his surprise found, seated,

weeping piteously, the female he had seen with

her father in the chamber adjoining the one he

had just quitted. She rose upon his entrance,

and gazed at horn with a look of astonishment; fora

moment neither spoke, but Quintain, making an

effort, recovered his self-possession, and exclaimed

—

I fear I have mistaken the chamber to which

I have been directed. The oak chamber — "

"Is the one preceding this," returned the

maiden.

Quintain bowed and seemed about to retire, but

looking round to see whether he had been followed

or was overheard by any one, and finding

himself alone with Meta, he exclaimed in a hurried

tone — ■

You are in distress — can I serve you ? I ama

stranger, but as there is truth and honour inman,

by the Great Power that rules us ! thou

rnayost place faith iv mc''

** Who art thou," she exclaimed, in surprise.

My name is Quintain Matsys; I am a resident

of Antwerp. I have not time to tell thee more,

for I expect thy father to follow close upon my

footsteps. How can 1 serve thee — tell me, and

may my right hand fail mo when most I need it,

if I do not truly and faithfully make the attempt."

From my soul I thank thee," cried Meta,

eagerly, " bear this ring to my uncle, the Baron

Hainault."

I know horn well," interrupted Quintain.

Bid horn hasten here," she continued ; "tell

him I am in much trouble, and need his instant

presence."

You shall be obeyed," he returned.

Hark ! there is my father's step along the

corridor," she suddenly exclaimed, " fly ! the oak

chamber is the first from this on your return.

Heaven's blessing attend you for your kindness !"

Quintain raised her hand to his lips aud the

next instant made his way to the oak chamber,

entered it, and awaited the coming of the old

Count.

CHAP. VI.

He had scarcely time to throw himself upon a

chair and compose himself to an attitude of carelessness

when the old man entered : he rose to receive

horn, but the Count motioned horn to keep

his seat.

You have had a long ride on a sharp night ;

you need refreshment : in a minute it will be

brought to thee," he said, in as friendly a tone as

his rough voice could assume.

I have no desire but to return," replied Quin-tin,

thanking horn for the offer ; " the hour is late,

the distance between me and my home is something

considerable, and there are those waiting

me who count the hours of my absence with

anxiety."

Nay, youth, the cravings of nature must be

satisfied; thou wilt perform thy journey with thrice

the briskness upon a well-filled stomach, to what

thou wouldst did I send thee away fasting."

I thank you, but I feel not to need it, and I

grow anxious to reach my home crc my mother

and sister should give way to a fear that some disaster

has befallen me," replied Quintain.

By the mass ! but their love for thee must be

marvellous that they canst not trust thee an hour

from their eyes without fearing an evil to have

overtaken thee," observed the Count in a tone of

irony.

I am their only dependence," he replied, modestly,

but firmly ; " my mother is, I acknowledge,

fond, and not gifted with strong mental powers;

her peace of mid is dearer to me than wealth or

fame."

Spoken like a worthy son," exclaimed the

Count with some little energy, " would I could

speak thus worthily of — but no matter. 1 have

a few things to say to thee : while thou dost listen

thou canst eat, and here comes a servitor bringing

that which might gladden the eyes of a weaker

appetite that thine."

As he spoke a man entered bearing a tray, on

which were placed some large slices of beef and

boar's head, half a fowl, a flagon of foaming ale,

and other et ceteras. The sight of the viands considerably

weakened the desire of Quintain to depart

on the instant, aud a little further pressing of the

Count gained the victory. While he discussed

the edibles the Count talked ; the tenor of his remarks

excited Quintain's surprise.

You were born in Antwerp ?" he commenced.

Quintain nodded affirmatively. " Your boyhood

was passed in the society of a band of youths

whose feats in warlike sports and deeds of daring

earned them an extensive reputation ; — you took a

prominent part in their deeds ?"

I was so honored as to be chosen their leader,"

returned Quintain with a look of pride, which the

Count smiled to observe ; but affecting a surprise

exclaimed —

Indeed ! I knew not I entertained a guest so

distinguished. It was you then, who, at the head

of fifty of thy companions, pursued the people of

baron Otho when they carried off the fair daughter

of the burgomaster, Vanderneer, and, cutting

the knaves in pieces, succeeded in restoring the

damsel safely to her father's arms ?"

I was so fortunate," answered Quintain,

laconically.

The burgomaster was much beholden to thee,

truly. He was very grateful for thy services."

"He was pleased to overrate them," returned

Quintain, making the best use of his acquaintance

with the edibles.

You have influence with horn, perhaps, to a

considerable extent ?" observed the count, interrogatively.

"

Probably," answered Quintain, "if I were so

mean as to make a claim upon his gratitude, for

rendering a service which thousands would have

gladly done without estimating it as more than a

part of their duty to their fellow creatures."

The count seemed not to like the reply ; he

mused for a moment, and then exclaimed —

He has, I know, great power over his fellow-citizens

; were a collision to occur between the

common people and the nobility, in which cause

would he take up arms ?"

Quintain looked at the count with surprise : after

a moments hesitation he replied —

I know not his inclining, but if he is a true

man he will side with his class."

"The nobles then, if that is thy train of thinking,

may not, should there be an outbreak, count

on thy help ?" asked the count, eyeing horn attentively.



Not unless the people were guilty of some flagrant

wrong," returned Quintain "and then I would

weild my sword in behalf of those who suffered

the injustice."

The romance of thy nature would lead thee

to the performance of an act which would be but

thy duty in any case ; the lords of the soil have

a right to claim the swords of the commons when

they need them." Quintain looked as though he

rather doubted the truth of this observation ; the

count perceived it and his brow lowered ; endeavoring,

however, to conceal it, he exclaimed in apparently

a careless tone — " I have been given to

understand yon are one of the band of youths who

call themselves the Predecessors."

You have been correctly informed," replied

Quintain.

Have you many friends among them ?" asked

the count: " that is to say, were you to conceive

a project, have you sufficient influence with them

to induce them to execute it?"

I have already told you I am their leader,"

replied Quintain, with a proud smile.

Indeed !" exclaimed the count, with an air of

eager surprise, " is this true — can it be true ?"

I am not given to lying for the sake of aggrandisement,

or even for amusement," remarked

Quintain, rather bluntly.

Why this exceeds my best hopes," muttered

the count, not appearing to have heard his exclamation,

" this is very well ; great influence

with Vanderneer the burgomaster, and leader of

the 'predecessors!' here will be an enemy in the

camp the knaves little reck of. Ha I ha ! the

clamouring dogs, they shall be thrust so low not

the best of their base heads shall rise again: they

shall be crushed — crushed completely I"

He ground his teeth hard as he spoke and

paced the room quickly ; then suddenly stopping

short aud fixing his eye, which was clear and

bright, upon Quintain, with a steadfastness which

made it embarrassing for horn to bear, he exclaimed

—

While waiting my coming in yon ante-chamber

you overheard a conversation between me and

my daughter Meta. Nay ! no equivocation, I

know you did — speak !"

An' I did, what then ?" asked Quintain, striving

to master the confusion into which this

abrupt question had thrown him.

1 ask you not if you heard it," replied the

count, with emphasis, I tell thee thou didst, dost

thou acknowledge it?"

I do," replied Quintain, firmly, " though in

telling thee so I know not how far the acknowledgment

will compromise my personal safety."

If thou doest as I wish thee thy safety will

remain compromised," said the count, quickly.

"If you thwart me, I tell thee frankly thou

must look to Providence for a long existence."

I have ever looked to Providence for a long

life ; to my honour, for its being borne as becomes

one who need not be ashamed to look any action

in the face, let its memory rise upon horn when it

may. If doing what you wish me agrees with

mine honour I will readily comply with your

desire, but if not — you will excuse me, count, for

my frankness — I must then look to Providence for

what is to come."

The count bit his nether lip, but forcing a

smile he said —

"Thought more romantic than thought high,

and it is thy romance which I doubt. You must

confess eaves-dropping agrees not with the dictates

of thine honour ; you must acknowledge that

what transpires between father and child concerns

them alone, and renders any interference from

honour, or any other troublesome companion, as

unnecessary as it is impertinent. The happiness

of Meta is dearer to me than thy life to thee ;

from what thine ears conveyed to thee thou

mayest be inclined to doubt this, and make others

as conversant with what took place as thyself.

This I have an object in avoiding : what I wish

therefore is, crc you quit the castle to give me

your oath not to repeat that colloquy between

Meta and myself, nor ought appertaining to it.

If you refuse, thy mother and sister may wait a

weary time in deep suspense crc their eyes look

upon thee again. Give me thine answer, and

quickly."

Quintain knew not what to reply ; his honour,

or, perhaps what is truer, his romance, demurred

as to taking the oath, and yet he could not but

acknowledge that, under the circumstances, to be

required to keep in his own breast that which

chance had put horn in possession of was not absolutely

unjust. He remembered that Meta had

not required horn to say more to her uncle than

that she was in danger and required his instant

presence. He believed he might serve her and

keep the oath if he took it. Prudence whispered

he had better give the promise, for no assistance

could he lend to any one if incarcerated in a

dungeon, and his most chivalrous notions would

never have led horn to believe he could, single-handed,

fight ,his way out of a stronghold so

thickly peopled with rude troopers as this same

castle in which he was at the present moment

quietly eating his supper. The count noted his

hesitation, and exclaimed quickly —

My estimation of your character is not far

wrong; I see you have some thoughts of meddling

in this matter. Let me advise you to beware

how you play the enemy with me ; there is not a

spot, however strong or obscure in Antwerp or

its neighbourhood, where my vengeance would

not surely reach you. Even your gallant band of

• predecessors' in their greatest strength could not

save you from my dagger if I saw fit to plant it

in thy breast. This is no weak boast be assured,

do not test its truth."

I have taught myself to fear the threats of no

being living, not excepting those of the Emperor

himself," replied Quintain, rising to his feet, " nor

would the most terrible you could invent move

me if I held it my duty to publish to the world

what I have overheard ; but as I have some doubts

of my just right to do so, I have no hesitation in

promising not to utter it to living being unless

with your permission."

It is enough ; with that promise depart when

you list," replied the count, eagerly ; "let your

work be done rapidly and silently, I shall see you

crc its completion, both when and where you will

least expect to find mc. If you have supped

follow rae."

Quintain obeyed silently, and upon reaching the

end of the corridor he perceived Frank Merritt

leaning listlessly against the wall. He started as

they approached, and the count said hastily to

him —

Take charge of this youth ;" and then turning

to Quintain exclaimed, emphatically, " let discretion

make thy teeth a dungeon for thy tongue."

- With this singular remark he vfaVed his hand

and quitted the spot, leaving Quintirt alone with

his tall companion. As soon as •» turn in the

corridor hid the count from their sight, Frank

laughed and said —

"Hast thou had a lecture upon eaves-dropping

? Marry, the count has a gist in the use of

his tongue."

Had he lectured thee on the wench's trick of

tale-bearing he had used his tongue to some purpose,"

replied Quintain, in a scornful tone. Hercules

! thought long enough to act as a man, I

marry thou dost not."

How 1" cried Frank, clapping his hand to the

hilt of his sword with a force which made the

corridor echo, " dearest thou question my honour

or my courage?"

I hold that man who carries tales no better

than a slave," replied Quintain, putting his hand to

his sword, ready to draw it if necessary. "It is

not the deed of one who lays claim to honourable

manhood."

Frank replied with a laugh, and dropping his

sword to its sheath from which he had half drawn

it, he said —

I see thought chafed with thy schooling — it

would not become my manhood to be angry with

thy scornful word now ; but understand me,

Quintain, lam no talebearer, no such dog ; an' thou

knowest me longer thou wilt know me better.

The count's quick eye detected thee opening the

chamber door when thy chivalrous notions were

spurring thee on to make a daughter prove disobedient

to her father ; he challenged me with

permitting thee to do so, and in self-justification

I was compelled to tell horn I saw thee but the

moment at which I closed the door, though, truth

bids me tell thee, I watched thee for some minutes

previously ; being quietly leaning unseen against

a chair behind thee. Thou hast it all now. Come,

I see thought anxious to depart ; follow me, and I

followed without speaking ; in truth he was

rather bewildered. He, however, came to the

conclusion, that if he got clear from the castle he

would be at the expence of some little reflection

crc he set foot within its walls again. They

had not proceeded far, when Frank commenced

speaking of Quintain's sister, praising her beauty,

enquiring her age, and other questions which the

young smith liked not, and at length he replied in

answer to a query, that she was not the object of

his conversation with strangers. Frank laughed,

and, attributing his taciturnity to the count's lecture,

said no more. They were not long in reaching

a small chamber, where they found Gaston

von Wurstwezel waiting for them.

Saddle the black steed Teufel for this young-will

intro step," said Frank, "and see horn safely over the

duce thee drawbridge. Farewell, Quintain," he added, 

one who mg to the young smith, "I hope to gain your good-shall

find a will crc long."

steed to take "When I find you deserve it, it shall not be

thee home 1 withheld," returned Matsys.

As quickly, ! Again Frank laughed, and then, with a familiar

aye quicker nod, disappeared.

than the one Gaston motioned Quintain to follow horn, and

which con after descending many flights of stairs, and pass-vexed

thee mg through a vast number of chambers, all of

here." which to his surprise were stored with arms and

Quintain other accoutrements, as if preparations for a

nth he was war were being made upon an extensive scale,

came to the they ascended a flight of stairs and, much more

the castle he to his astonishment, he found himself again in the

;the reflection hall where he had before seen the troopers again.

They rousing: the same noisy revellers were there, most

commenced of there intoxicated, and as soon as Quintain and

his companion were fairly in the hall they were

again greeted with a noisy welcome from Repel,

the fellow who had before intercepted them. He

was, however, deeply steeped in liquor ; his

flushed face and thick voice made it plainly evident.



"Ha ! ha !" he cried jumping from his seat

and staggering towards them with a cup brimming

with wine, "Ha ! ha ! Gaston von Wurstwezel

the bold ! wine for the eagle, Gaston. Hurry !

COLLOQUY RESPECTING THE GALLANTRY OP Quintain MATSYS.

The health of — of — Hallo ! who are you, youngster

?" he exclaimed, staring hard at Quintain. " Ah

I know. Ho ! ho ! a new comrade on secret

service. Hurry for the true cause ! up with the

nobles and down with the merchants ! eh ! that's

the toast, youngster — "

Peace, fool !" cried Gaston, wrathfully.

Peace, or I will ram the goblet down thy beastly

throat."

"Thou? — thou? well, I like that," laughed

Repel; "but you're drunk, so I will not heed

thee. Come youngster, drink the toast, list nota

good one ? A nobles foot on a merchant's

neck! A base — money-getting — truckling —

cheating — Drink, man ! the cup runs over and

bids thee kiss it ; drink the toast."

Let rae pass, I need no wine," said Quintain,

endeavouring to proceed, not a little astounded at

what he heard.

"Need no wine?" hiccupped Repel, "why

thou hast no soul ; not need wine ? but need or

not need, you shall not refuse the toast — drink

it."

Not I," returned Quintain.

Drink it, in the Fiend's name I" whispered

Gaston to horn, "or this drunken ass will keep us

dallying here an hour."

I will not pollute my lips with so base a wish,"

replied Quintain, in a determined tone.

Pollute !" said Repel with a frown, overhearing

his exclamation — " an' thou disdained

the toast, I'll pollute my dagger with thy base

blood."

He placed his hand upon Quintain's shoulder

with a rude grasp as he spoke. The youth instantly

drew his sword and said —

Take thy hand from me, or by the Queen of

heaven ! I'll lop it from thy wrist."

Drink, 1 tell thee ' Down with the merchants

and up with the nobles !' A barons foot on

every merchant slave's neck !" roared Repel.

"Drink, or I'll dash the wine, cup and all, in thy

face."

Unloose me man," uttered Quintain, sternly,

struggling to release his shoulder from the ruffian's

strong grasp. " Unloose me, I tell thee,

or I'll fling thee to the earth."

"Thou fling me, Goshawk! ha! ha!" cried

Repel, in a tone of immeasurable contempt.

Canst thou topple a tower or tear an oak of a

hundred years from its root ? thou — but drink,

or by the field, or any other Holy Apostle, I'll

see the colour of thy blood."

Stand back, Repel, or by the mother of God I

I'll take the hangman's task upon myself, and run

thee by the neck to the nearest post," cried Gaston,

fiercely.

Thou couldst not do it wert thou a thousand

times Gaston Von Wurstwesel," retorted Repel

with a drunken swagger, " and now my honour's

called in question, the devil seize me ! but he

shall drain the goblet to its dregs, and to roy

toast too''

Then by heaven ! my lips shall be lifeless

crc the wine touches them — off knave, off I and

look to thyself, for so the Holy Mother aid me !

but 1 11 cut my way through a hundred such as

thee crc desecrate my throat by u tearing so vile

a toast," cried Quintain, passionately.

Give me the cup, Repel," exclaimed Gaston,

at the same moment endeavouring to seize it, "give

me the cup, or thou shalt have me like a tiger

upon thy back."

How now, two to one ? Ho ! there for a

comrade's blade — what ho, a steel for a brothers

aid !" shouted Repel, and a fellow who was near

the spot instantly drew his sword and advanced,

at the same moment Quintain, by a violent exertion,

flung the drunkard from horn, and Gaston,

having obtained the wine cup half emptied of its

contents hy repeated spilling, threw the remainder

with some force in Rupel's face. This completely

roused his ire into boiling indignation, and

shouting a string of fearful oaths he drew his

sword and made fiercely at Gaston, who, as quick

as lightning unsheathed his weapon and opposed

him. The man who had come to his assistance,

seeing Quintain with his sword bare, at once attacked

horn, and a desperate fight ensued. The

clashing of their weapons, neither soft nor slow,

speedily attracted the attention of those carousing,

and many left their seats to look on the

affray, as well as to ascertain its cause. They did

not at first interfere, until an exclamation from

Repel roused them from their apathy and induced

them instantly to take part in the encounter.

Down with Gaston Von Wurstwesel," cried

he, lustily, " down with horn, and the spy he has

brought amongst us."

It was in vain that both Gaston and Quintain

vehemently denied being either traitor or spy,

their exclamations were drowned in the clamour

which followed the speech of Repel ; their only

course was to place themselves back to back and

defend themselves desperately ; Gaston, at the

same time, shouting in a lusty tone for such of the

fellows near whom he deemed his personal friends,

likely to back horn in any quarrel, to aid horn at

the present moment, but the charge against horn

was of too serious a nature for there to lend horn

their assistance, and therefore they did not interfere,

a neutrality which he did not fail to

observe or comment upon in rather strong terms.

What the issue of the fray would possibly have

been it is easy to guess ; two men, however skilful

in the use of their weapons, opposed to a dozen,

cannot be expected to stand a very good chance

for their lives ; and, although both Quintain and

Gaston were well practised swordsmen, wanting

neither courage nor dexterity, and had drunken

men to cope withal, yet their fate might have

been a sanguinary one but for a timely interruption.

Repel had been the first to feel the effects

of the fray, by receiving a severe wound from

Quintain's sword, and finding that he was unable

to return the compliment with his own, he retired

to find a battle-axe in order that he might finish

the contest in a few minutes. His comrades were

in the meantime closing round Quintain and Gaston,

hemming them in, limiting the space to wield

their swords in, and rendering their position most

critical, when a stern voice rung like a peal of

thunder through the hall, causing each man to

turn his head as the rafters reverberated its tones.

The speaker was Frank Merritt, who, striding

with huge steps towards the combatants, interposed

his stalwart frame between them.

How now, you clamourous dogs !" he cried

in an angry tone, " what means this brawl ? what

is the cause of this vile uproar? what, at cut and

thrust, shouting and swearing, like common cutthroats

; out upon you, knaves ! think ye this is a

forest den, where you can display your brutish

natures to the best advantage. Ha ! the young

smith, Quintain, and you too, Gaston, with drawn

weapons. St. Savin ! what means this," he

added, for the first time observing the two whom

he had addressed.

It means this," roared Repel, suddenly advancing

and aiming a tremendous blow with a

battle-axe, which he had succeeded in obtaining,

at Quintain ; the latter, however, saw it descending,

and by nimbly leaping on one side escaped

it ; it fell with a heavy crash upon the oak floor,

in which it half buried itself. With the quickness

of a tigers spring Frank seized horn by the

throat, and in a voice hoarse with passion he

cried —

Thou cold-blooded, murderous hound ! whereas

a treacherous deed like this ? Speak, crc

I strangle thee !"

"Take thy hands from my throat," gurgled

Repel almost inarticulately, as the fingers of

Frank compressed his windpipe, so as nearly to

fulfil the promise of throttling him. Merritt relaxed

his hold slightly, and he muttered something

respecting Gaston being atraitorand Quintain

a spy ; he coupled this charge with some rambling

boasts of being the discoverer, which thickness

of speech rendered so obscure as to make it impossible

for any one to clearly understand. Frank

listened to horn impatiently and turned, crc he

had concluded, for an explanation to Gaston, who

gave it in a few words, but without forgetting to

make Rupel's interference stand out iv a light by

no means so favorable as it was strong. Frank

Merritt chafed as he heard it, and when Gaston

concluded he shook Repel violently as he would

a boy, and flinging horn from horn with a force

which prostrated horn heavily to the ground, he

exclaimed —

Thank thy patron sant — the Evil One it maybe

! that I do not twist thy neck for thy uncalled

for readiness to poke thy nose in matters which

concern thee not ; be more discreet in future,

thou drunken swillpot, or thou mayest find thyself

swinging to and fro in the wind for carrion birds

to peck at, when thou dost least dream of it. To

your seats, fellows," he added, haughtily, to the

troopers congregated around, " and if you must

pass the night in drinking, do it without brawling,

or by my faith ! there is one near who may make

ye rue the loss of cars and noses for the remainder

of thy days, short though the terra maybe."



The troopers, with a look askance at Repel,

who still lay upon the floor where Frank had

flung horn, uncertain whether to regain his feet or

lay quietly where he was, returned to their places,

and Frank, bidding Quintain follow horn, led the

way from the hall. When they reached the

court-yard, Frank stopped and said to Gaston —

See to the steed quickly, good Gaston, or

daylight will meet this youth crc he reaches his

home."

Gaston disappeared, and a moments silence

ensued ; Quintain was the first to break it.

"Your assistance," he observed, " came not

one moment 100 soon — I heartily thank you for

it."

You are welcome to it," returned Frank in

somewhat of a musing tone ; " you would believe

it too an' you knew all, but I would do more for

thee than merely being thy right hand in a brawl :

there is some secret spring, whose source I know

not, draws me to thee. I like thee, youth, for

thought manly as well as talented, and it shall go

hard but I serve thee. Did the count crc you

parted with horn make any conditions respecting

your quitting the castle?"

None but a promise of secrecy regarding what

I overheard," replied Quintain readily. " Why do

you ask ?"

To be prepared for your sake against contingencies,"

was the return. " You had better

lose little time in crossing the drawbridge, for did

his lordship know the extent of that swilling fool

Rupel's folly, your departure from hence would

not be so speedy as it is likely at present to be ;

fresh conditions of security would be exacted from

you, but I seek for none save in your own honor.

You came here to use nor eyes nor ears but in

matters relating to thy profession ; and be advised

by one who has a friend's interest in thee: — have

no further use for there ; forget this brawl and all

that led to it, for there are bands and blades in

hidden and unsuspected places which may find

occupation fatal to thee if thou dost exercise thy

tongue in describing that which it was not intended

thee to see or know. Here comes Gaston

with the steed, which, when thou hast reached

Antwerp, leave in my name at the 'drinking

boors,' in the market-place. Once more, farewell,

and let thy discretion equal thy abilities as a

smith."

He turned quickly upon his heel crc Quintain

could make a reply, and our hero mounted into

the saddle with agility glad of his immediate departure.

Gaston led the way until the drawbridge

was gained and lowered, he then said —

"A speedy and a safer ride home to thee, youngster,

than thy passage through our hall."

"Thanks!" replied Quintain, "wc may meet

again nearer Antwerp than St. Catherine's Cross,

Gaston Von Wurstwesel ; and should wc, I will

remember, to the best of my poor ability, the

gallantry with which you backed me to-night during

the brawl. Farewell 1"

He clapped spurs to his steed as he spoke and

galloped away at a swift pace in the direction of

Antwerp.

CHAP. VII.

The morning succeeding the night of the events

which wc have just narrated was flooded with

sunshine ; a bright winters day,when the sun gives

warmth with his beams, and creates delicious visions

of spring, and summer. In a chamber of a

neat house, not far from the High-street, sat an

elderly man busily occupied in painting an historical

picture ; there was something striking in his

appearance : he was evidently tall, and his limbs,

though not youthful were well formed ; his face

was peculiar in its expression ; there was much

intellect displayed in the character of the forehead,

which was lofty ; the eyes were bright, the rest

of the features handsome, but there was an air of

cunning playing over them which marred their

effect. He wore a velvet cap, a handsome

dressing gown, and bore the appearance of being

a man of some wealth as well as ability. He prosecuted

his labors silently and with perseverance,

but by the play of his features, it was plain that

thoughts of a pleasing character were passing

through his mid. The train, agreeable as it might

have been, was, however, interrupted by a knocking

at the door of the apartment. He cast a

hasty glance at his picture and then at the door,

as if undecided whether to give the permission to

enter or not. The knock was repeated, the door

opened, and a young man entered the room. His

bearing was haughty, his figure was commanding,

his face swarthy, but not unhandsome ; his dress

was rich, and his manner gave evidence of his

being one of high station. The greeting between

both was free but not cordial ; the one endeavoring

to wear the air of patron, and the other that

of a man according a favor by permitting an acquaintance

to watch his labors.

This pisa bright morning for your work, Flors,"

exclaimed the new comer.

My work, pish !" ejaculated Flors, pettishly.

Mynheer Von Haalst, if you had a soul for music,

which by the way you have not, and were to

have a favorite instrument upon whose tones you

doated, would you characterise your playing upon

it as work ? Fol ! choose better terms, friend,

choose better terms ; — painting is an art the highest

under heaven, and those who follow the divine

profession indulge themselves in a species of extatic

enjoyment : such is the production of pictures ;

it is pleasure, Mynheer, not work."

"Wc will not quarrel for terms, it is a fair

morning for the enjoyment of your art," rejoined

Von Haalst, forcing a smile. " I have no doubt

when you have completed your task— picture, I mean,

you will impart to others the same amount of enjoyment

in gazing upon it, which you felt in producing

it."

I hope I may," said the old man, "but it is

impossible to put a soul in a stock or stone, or a

tasteful perception in the muddy head of a boor ;

I care not for the world's opinion if I please myself

in a picture, and if Ido not — " he paused.

What then ?" asked Von Haalst.

I paint it out," he replied drily.

Where has thy fair daughter hidden herself?"

observed Von Haalst, " changing the subject ; "it

is rare to find her absent from thy painting room."

She expected thee, probably," answered the

old man, with a low laugh, which made Von

Haalst bite his nether lip ; he, however, covered

his annoyance with an air of affected ease, and

aside —

You old people are no judges of the actions of

young hearts."

Indeed !" replied the old man, quickly. "What,

have wc no experience ? Is the accumulation of

years, with the daily witnessing of the deeds of

young hearts, not enough to constitute a judge ? If

not, pray enlighten ray defective perception by

informing me what is ?'

"Wc all reason as wc feel," returned Von

Haalst ; " the youth of nineteen, and the man of

fifty, view the same object with different eyes.

Flors, madly in love at the age of twenty, would

hold himself justified in any extravagant act ; the

enthusiasm, the romance, and warmth of feeling

natural to that period of life, would incite horn to

a course of conduct which, did he not follow, would

make horn spurn his soul ; yet Flors' eyes when he

had passed sixty winters would view his proceedings

as the most reprehensible folly, because his

blood was colder, his heart harder, his worldliness

greater, and it may be that his better feelings had

been soured by disappointment. There is yet

another reason ; as the deeds of our youth through

a long vista of years, let poets say what they may,

are imperfectly remembered, if, since childhood,

the scenes wc have passed through have been wild,

stirring, and variable, so will the warm impulses

of a young heart be numbed, if not destroyed, by

a rough intercourse with the ruder portion of society.

Wc are what circumstances make us ; the

most virtuous will become profligate and debauched

by living constantly among beings of that character,

and will, in his turn, look with eyes of derision

upon any one who can lay claim to no common

share of morality ; thus is it that our positions,

our course of life, make us incompetent judges of

that which has been opposite to our mode of living

; as the rich man possessed of every enjoyment

which wealth can purchase horn, is but a mean judge

of the agony which the bitter trials of the poor man

makes horn suffer and drags horn down to a solitary

grave."

*' I have heard you patiently," returned Flors,

you argue well, but not well enough. You forget

that there is no judge of the beauty of virtue

so good as one who has once been proud of its

possession and has fallen from its high estate ; no

one knows the charms of home so well as one who

has been removed from a happy one to scenes of

wretchedness : to be less romantic, what child understands

the properties of site so well as one who

has been burnt by it ? Where is the utility of

experience if it does not by actual practice shew

us the difference between wisdom and folly, and

who can draw the line with greater precision than

he who has passed through the fire of the romance

of youth ? Must not he be the best judge who

has loved, and that deeply ; who has watched the

signs and symbols of affection in the idol of his

soul, its impulses, its guardedness, its strength, and

its weakness, — who has looked closely into the

actions of others that he might test the truth of his

own conceptions regarding the behaviour of his

own sweet love, and who, in after years, when

romance with its spring, with its primary motives,

has faded away, has passed many idle hours in

tracing the progress of passion in young hearts,

seeing in the tender evidence and the deep enthusiasm

of their love, no slight cause for a grateful

remembrance of his own ?"

You speak, Flors, as warmly as if you had

once been deeply in love yourself," said Von

Haalst, laughingly.

"Asia I had once been in love I Of what materiel,

what dost thou imagine my soul?" cried

Flors, sharply. " Dost thou conceive it to be a cold

passionless emblem of immortality carved in stone ?

Dost thou take me for a plodding 'tradesman, a

money-getting, wool-buying churl, who has but

two ideas — eating and cheating. St. Luke ! what

makes a painter ? What creates the glorious visions,

the gorgeous characters, the varied scenes,

the wild, the beautiful, the glowing offsprings of

a brilliant and vivid imagination, but the soul ?

The soul, Von Haalst, the soul; and possessing

that essence of immortality, that attribute of a celestial

being, thickest thou that I would have

linked my fate with one I did not love ? thickest

thou I looked upon the mother of my child with

the eyes of a merchant ? that I took her to my bosom

with the indifference of one who had just

concluded a purchase ? No, Von Haalst; I had

a soul, or I never should have been a painter ; I

loved deeply, or I never should have been a wedded

man."

The conversation was here interrupted by the

entrance of the daughter of Flors ; Von Haalst

started forward to receive her, but with a slight

acknowledgement of his courtesy she declined his

proffered hand and walked direct towards her father,

who kissing her fondly, said —

Why Agnes, where hast thou been hiding,

child ? the sun hath nearly made half his circuit

crc thou hast made thy appearance ; it is not usual

with thee. I ate my breakfast in solitary discomfort

this morning, the first time for years ; what

ails thee my love ? thought not thyself I perceive;

thy face is pale, thine eyelids heavy, thy manner

languid, and thy hand is hot and feverish ; what

means all this — shall I send for Von Hetter, he is

a skilful physician ?"

I will bring horn hither on the instant," exclaimed

Von Haalst, eagerly.

No — no I thank you," said Agnes, instantly,

"I am not ill — a sleepless night only hath made

me a sluggard."

Ah, thou wert frighted last night by those

ruffians," observed her father, " I knew thou wert,

although thou didst deny it when I challenged

thee with being so. The cowardly, villainous

knaves ! would I could discover them and their

employer. By the emperor's right hand ! I would

make them pay richly for their villany — the

scoundrels !"

May I without rudeness inquire to what you

allude," asked Von Haalst, affecting an air of interest

about a matter of which he knew too well

already, save the name of horn who rescued Agnes;

and that was a piece of information most desirable

to horn, which, if possible, he determined to

obtain.

Why, Von Haalst, hadst thou been near us

in our progress homeward last night from the house

of a friend, there would have been a rare opportunity

for the display of thy chivalry in behalf of my

fair daughter here."

I would I had, by my soul !" exclaimed Von

Haalst in an earnest tone.

Aye, there would have been a fine field for

the exercise of thy skill as a swordsman," continued

Flors, " a brace of knaves to put to flight with

the flash of a bright blade wielded by a vigorous

arm, and backed by some little courage."

Thou shouldst have had no cause to doubt my

skill or my disposition to assist thee against villains,

had my good fortune brought me near thee," said

Von Haalst, and added, " but prithee tell me what

happened."

Why," replied Flors, " I went to visit an old

friend yester eve, in Antwerp. I told thee I should

yester morn, and I fulfilled my intent. On returning

towards home a pair of rascals, whom may

the imps of darkness scourge ! darted from a lurking

place upon us : one aimed a blow at me which,

thanks to St. Luke and a nimble foot for one not

much accustomed to agility, I avoided ; the other

seized ray child, who, to give her all credit, shrieked

most lustily. The angels heard her, as at this

moment a youth dropped from the clouds — he

could have come from no other place, for I vow I

looked the whole length of the High-street a moment

previously and saw not a soul — and with a

lusty call upon St.Quenten he attacked the knaves.

Ha ! hal I saw his blade flash through the air —

I heard his clear round tones — a sweet and honest

voice truly — and then, Von Haalst, I heard the

howl of the rascal who would have despatched me

to ray ancestors ; his warm blood splashed upon

my face ; his part in the matter was done, for he

took to his heels. Before I could turn my eyes

my child was in my arms, and the second knave

was following his comrade as fast as his legs would

carry horn, while our brave young friend stood as

modestly as if he had merely wished us an evening

compliment."

And pray who was this young chevalier, or

rather, celestial spirit who dropped from the heavens

so opportunely ?" observed Von Haalst, ina

tone of scornful irony. " Prithee did he take

wing after this display of his valor."

I tell thee what, Von Haalst; hadst thou been

near the spot," exclaimed Flors, rather nettled,

— drop from the clouds thou couldst not, for thou

wilt never reach high enough to fall — thou wouldst

have considered twice crc thou didst attack two

stalwart knaves, and, in all probability, would have

taken wing before the display of thy valor."

The brow of Von Haalst reddened at this sarcasm,

and he ground his teeth hard. Flors, from

the corner of his eye observed it and chuckled.

Hadst thou, Von Haalst, adventured somewhat

in our behalf," he added " wouldst thou not

have made us believe thee a second St. Michael?

Wouldst thou have ever suffered us to forget thou

hadst played the hero for our sakes, or rather, for

my daughter's ? for, by my Haldane ! it strikes

me my crown might have been cracked an hundred

times crc thou wouldst step forward to save it."

You wrong me, Flors," said Von Haalst, somewhat

sternly : " an' but I know thee to be bantering

only I should be apt to feel galled at your

unjust opinion of my disposition towards thee.

Thou hast never found me, I believe, boastful—,

and, were it to be my happy lot to save thee from

any danger, didst thou not remember my service

it would not be in my nature to remind thee of that

which I should be the first to forget. I can only

add, I envy the youth whose good fortune led horn

to your aid, and would gladly, if I knew where to

find horn, seek horn and rewarder for his bravery."

He did not appear like one who needed such

reward as you could bestow," returned Flors, without

making any reference to the principal point in

Von Haalst's remark : " his dress was that of one

less simple than gentle ; and his manner, his free

carriage, had not that of a boor ora shuffling clerk."

Flors felt his daughter's arms twine round his

neck at this remark, and he knew she felt pleased

at his praise of their young champion. He thought

it was her gratitude, and out of a similar feeling he

continued —

He had the upright bearing of a chevalier and

the step of a noble, had he not, Agnes ?"

He had, dear father," she replied, readily.

And the tones of his voice were quite musical,"

he rejoined; "but you have no ear for

music, Von Haalst, you cannot, therefore, understand

the pleasure of hearing a silvery tone, come

from whence it may."

Truly not," replied Von Haalst, curling his

lip scornfully ; " that is, if it came from the lips of

a man.

Sir, music is music, whether from an instrument

or the mouth of woman or man," said Flors,

quickly, " and though there was nothing womanish

in the sound of our young friend's voice, yet it

was sweet and pleasant to hear, was it not, Agnes ?"

"It was indeed," she replied, and sighed.

Von Haalst observed it, and a pang shot

through his breast which made horn writhe again :

he, however, repressed the exclamation which

rose to his lips, and resolved to watch her closely.

"He was handsome too," continued Flors,

noticing the change in Von Haalst's face and

attributing it to envy ; " it gladdened me when the

light of a torch displayed his countenance to me ;

there was an expression in his face I love to see

in a young man — it was clear, open, honest, ingenuous,

and modest withal ; his eye, Von Haalst,

was large, clear, and transparent ; was it not,

Agnes?"

She sighed but did not reply. Ah ! she knew its

beauty better than her father. Von Haalst thought

so too as he watched the turn of her features, and

mentally cursed our hero with right good will.

It was an eye, Von Haalst," continued Flors,

quite garrulous in the young smiths praise, "which

has never looked quietly upon any wrong done in

its sight ; it does not waver, and quiver, and turn

right and left when you bend your own upon it —

like — hern ! — like many others."

He was going to say "yours, Von Haalst," buta

second thought made horn withhold it. Von

Haalst guessed what he would have said — • suspi-

cionalways haunts the guilty mid' — andfound the

conversation growing in every way offensive. He

resolved to ascertain the name and dwelling of

this wondrous youth, and then to change the subject

: he therefore said with an affected indifference

of tone —

You have not yet told me who this brave

youth is, or where he dwells ; if he is above being

rewarded with gold he may still not be independent

of thanks, which, as a friend of thine and the

gentle Agnes, I deem it my duty to proffer him.

He may also be acquainted with the persons of the

villains who attacked you and their object ; if he

can give any clue to there, rest assured, Flors,

neither purse nor exertion shall be spared to discover

and punish them."

You are very kind," replied Flors, "but if I

required aid in punishing the knaves through the

instrumentality of our young champion, I could

neither inform thee of his name or residence ; I

shame to say that, with the excitement of the

whole affair, I forgot to ask of horn either."

"He may have confided both to the fair

Agnes," observed Von Haalst, with a sneer, which

made the maidens lip curl with disdain; and turning

on horn a look which he had no occasion to

congratulate himself upon receiving, she exclaimed

—

I have as much reason for regret as my

father, that my own selfish fear should have

caused me to forget to learn the name of my

preserver ; it was a courtesy due to the commonest

piece of service received, and my shame equals

his, that in one so important as that last night

rendered to us, wc should have suffered it to

escape us both."

Flors rubbed his hand with gratification at this

spirited sally of his daughter, and Von Haalst,

stung by the tone in which it was said, as well as

the look by which it was accompanied, rejoined

in the same sneering tone he had before used —

"It is easily accounted for — his personal excellence

shadowed his services ; you forgot in

his charms his terrestrial nature ; you looked in

his face and thought not of his abode ; you gazed

in his eyes and thought not of his name ; I would

I had been of the party, for if I have not an ear

for music, I have a soul for beauty ; perhaps,

however, I might not have been so strongly

affected as you both appear to have been, and failing

to be dazzled might have remembered to have

asked horn if he was of this earth ; and if he had

replied in the affirmative, I would have done my

best to have discovered what part of this highly-favoured

city of Antwerp he delighted with his

presence. It may, however, be still my good fortune

to hear from the talkers, with which this

city abounds, a full account of the terrible adventure

which befel the great painter, Frank

Flors, and his fair daughter, and the hero who

saved them from destruction with his name, age,

country, birth, education, and condition. Truly I

it will make a fair marvel and help me to discover

Sir Paladin, as well as the demons who created

the mischief, giving me a share in the wondrous

tale, as the good friend who punished the

delinquents."

"My good friend, when I need thy aid I will

beg it of thee," said Flors, in a cold grave tone,

and when thou dost me a piece of service equal

to that which thou makcst a subject for thy sneers,

thou wilt be as welcome here as will he, who last

night, unconscious who or what wc were, beggars

or gentle, raised his arm in our defence ; for

though I remembered not to ask his name, I did

not forget to tell horn an open door and a glad reception

would await horn here ; till then consider

me as your humble servant."

That this was a hint to absent himself Von

Haalst could not misunderstand ; — it astounded

horn, it was the last thing he desired ; he found he

had gone too far, and instantly endeavoured to

retrieve the ground he had lost.

I meant not that my pleasantry should

offend you," he said.

Pleasantry ?" echoed Flors, drily.

"Even so," he returned, "it was but using

your own language ; however, since you have

taken it seriously, it becomes me to say, that I

believe the service done you to have been great

and commendable. I trust you may find your

new friend as worthy of your praise upon further

acquaintance, as you do upon so slight an one."

Slight I" again echoed Flors, " our ideas I

fear do not coincide, Von Haalst; I do not think

they ever will. You will excuse my candour, I

am as frank by nature as by name ; I cannot retract

what I but this moment told thee."

In truth, my presence is unacceptable," said

Von Haalst.

Flors was silent ; Von Haalst looked from horn

to Agnes : the only expression which he could

trace in her features was, that she quite agreed

with her father in his dismissal. He bit his lips

till he fetched the blood, and in a tone which was

harsh and even fierce, he exclaimed —

Flors, you may repent this insult. I can be as

bitter an enemy as I can be a fast friend ; you

may prove me so."

Meinherr, I am independent of the world

and every being it contains," cried Flors, jumping

to his feet ; " I despise all threats, I am not

accustomed to be bearded in my own abode — your

way lies that way'' he concluded, pointing to the

door.

If you do not both remember this," exclaimed

Von Haalst, passionately, " may the foul fiend

be my destruction 1"

He stalked out of the room as he spoke, and

Flors resumed his seat. Agnes seated herself

on a stool at his feet, and soothed his angry feelings

by talking of Quintain Matsys.

Von Haalst quitted the house of Flors filled

with the most vindictive feelings ; he determined

to be revenged. His first care should be, he resolved,

to ascertain from his myrmidons a description

of the person who rescued Flors and his

daughter, endeavour to trace horn out, and by

poison or steel prevent horn from again interfering

with any of his schemes. Then, he would cause

Flors to be made acquainted with the death of

his redoubled champion, and when he was full of

grief at it, rob horn of his child and make her his

minion. These thoughts rushed like fire through

his brain, and he hastened at once to the abode

of Robe of the fellows. As he crossed one of the

market-places, he was accosted by a rough-looking

many, who, making a rude obeisance, said —

Your name is Von Haalst," I believe.

What then ?" was his impatient reply.

I was the companion of Graafenberg in tho

carrying off affair last night," replied the man,

bluntly.

You ?" exclaimed Von Haalst, with surprise.

"Yes," be returned, "Graafenberg chose me

to assist him."

■ In running away, you cowardly dog," replied

Von Haalst.

I did but follow his example," retorted the

man ; he led the way there and back also."

You kept pace with horn in returning, I will

wager," exclaimed Von Haalst, bitterly, " thou

faint-hearted knave. 'What ! two stout rogues,

nd fear to face a stripling ? shame on thee, I'll

no more of thy services."

He was no stripling, and wielded a sword of

four and forty inches as if he had been playing

with a feather," rejoined the man, "as Graafen-

berg will tell you, for he lies in bed with a shoulder

slashed to the blade-bone. I was on my way to

seek you with a message from horn, desiring to

see you*"

** Where is ho lying ?" enquired Von Haalst.

At a house yonder," replied the man, pointing

to the market-place."

Lead me to horn," said Von Haalst.

The man obeyed ; and as he followed, he muttered

between his teeth —

She shall be mine, in spite of the foul fiend

himself."

CHAP. VIII.

Quintain Matsys reached Antwerp after a brisk

ride. He was mounted upon the back of a steed

equal to a longer journey at a quicker pace than he

had to take, and was not therefore chary in urging

horn forward. On arriving at the city gates

he had little difficulty in passing through, being

known to the wicket-keeper, and then made his

way to the hostel appointed for the reception of

his steed. He found upon knocking that the

inmates were stirring, the host himself making

his appearance to take charge of the steed. He

gave a very significant look at our hero as he

mentioned the name of Frank Merritt, and would

have been communicative if Quintain had given

horn an opportunity ; but ho was tired, and doubting

the nature of what he had to communicate,

he quitted horn, with a brief request to take all

care of the steed and return it to Frank Merritt

when he should call for it. He found his mother

and sister awaiting horn at home, and could see,

by their pale anxious countenances, they had

been sitting awaiting his return with painful

apprehension of some evil having befallen him.

lie briefly recounted what had occurred to horn

during his absence, keeping back all those incidents

he thought it prudent to confine to his own

breast ; and they, glad of seeing horn safe back

again, questioned nothing that he told them.

The next day he endeavoured to see the baron

Hainault, but learned he was staying with a

friend at a castle on the Rhine, and would not be

in Antwerp for a week. For a few days succeeding

he laboured hard to execute his commission

for Frank Merritt, entrusting such parts to

different workmen as were of minor importance,

reserving all the important portions and finish to

the labour of his own hands. While he prosecuted

bis works his thoughts recurred frequently

to Agnes Flors : his imagination placed her fair

face vividly before horn, and would again and

again present those sweet smiling eyes, looking

kinder thoughts than ever the tongue uttered ; a

thousand times he resolved to call and see her

once again, and then he fancied they would think

he cano for praise ; a thousand times he wished

the; had met without his having done her any

service, and yet the look with which she repaid

horn would have been lost, and that was inestimable.

Frequently, when he could spare the

time, he passed and repassed the house, hoping

that the daughter or father would catch a glimpse

of horn and invite horn into their abode. The first

visit paid, there would he little cause for hesitation

respecting the second. But it was in vain he

directed his steps to their neighbourhood, no kind

accident favoured horn with a sight of either.

Not one word of this adventure had he mentioned

to his sister or mother, but the former quickly

found that something was preying upon his

mid, and endeavoured to extract from horn what

it was ; she tried every method, fearing that it

was something to cause them pain, but after repeated

efforts she found this not to be the case,

and at last it struck her he might have fallen in

love, and did not like to confess it even to her.

When a woman — a young one — wishes to discover

a secret of this nature, she has a peculiar

art, which, let the subject of her attack be as

cunningly adept at deception as he may, enables

her to come at the fact as clearly and a3 certainly

as if he had made a clean breast and confessed

all ; nothing can equal her penetration in

these matters; whatever may be the sources from

which she derives her knowledge, they are hidden

to all but herself; she is perfectly mistress of all

the B.gns and outward forms, and seizes with an

aptness peculiar to herself every point which conducts

her to her conclusion. As soon as the idea

once entered the head of Blanche Matsys, she set

about, immediately, the task of ascertaining the

truth, and was not long in discovering that she

had arrived at the cause of his fits of abstraction,

his sighs, and his occasional departures from

home. The next point to be ascertained was, who

the lady was ; and that, not even her quick-lightness

could as yet discover. Quintain, all unconscious

that his sister had found out the state

of his heart, had more than once resolved to tell

her the adventure, and ask her opinion whether

he was ' o'er stepping the modesty of nature' in

paying a visit, but then he fancied his anxiety

would be misconstrued, for he would not himself

acknowledge that love had aught to do with the

matter, and so he altered his mid and said

nothing. While in this state of incertitude he

received a note which ran thus —

Friend Quintain, does thy work progress with

a speed to keep pace with thy genius ? Thou

must not return a negative ; never was work of

art or necessity more immediately required than

that upon which thought engaged ; lag not, thou

loses a golden mark every minute thou dost

waste, and the chance of far e; for if it is not

quickly completed thou may'st decorate thine

own chamber only with it, it will not serve the

purpose, for which it is required, and, not serving

the purpose is of no other utility ; set to work

upon it such cunning artificers as thou canst

swear to secrecy, and whatever their demand,

pay it — I have sent thee gold for the purpose. I

would see thee, too, for I have something, of no

little importance to thee, to communicate, affecting

thy dearest interests. Thou must at ten to-night

be at the hostel where thou didst leave the steed

entrusted to thee; I shall await thee, fail not

Commend me to thy fair sister, and believe me

sincerely thine, F. M."

A heavy purse of gold accompanied it ; the

purse and the note were given into his hand by

a man he knew not, and who refused to deliver

it to any one but himself: the instant he had executed

his task he disappeared. Quintain read the

note several times, and liked not the line which

commanded horn to swear to secresy all whom

he should employ in the production of this piece

of ironwork. He disliked the air of mystery,

and all he had seen at the castle tended to make

horn wish he had never undertaken the commission

at all. After speculating for some little time,

he resolved to ask the advice of his confessor

upon the subject, and be guided by horn entirely

in his future proceedings respecting it. Acting

upon the impulse, he at once determined to seck

horn, and knowing at this time he would be in the

cathedral, he proceeded there. He quickly found

horn, and had scarcely commenced a conversation

with horn when a female passed horn closely. He

caught a glimpse of her face after she had proceeded

some little distance, and — he could not be

deceived — it was that of the maiden he had saved

from the hands of villains ; he made an exclamation,

which found a ready echo in the cathedral.

At this sound the maiden turned her head, and

her eyes lighted on Quintain Matsys. She, too,

made an exclamation, and stood still ; in a moment

he was at her side, leaving his confessor in a state

of no small surprise. He had a hundred things

to say to her which, during his hours of labour

and solitary walks near her dwelling, he had

planned ; they all gushed to his lips, each striving

and struggling for utterance. She turned

her clear blue eyes upon horn with the same sweet

expression he had once only before observed,

and, as if by the wave of an enchanter's wand, he

was struck dumb ; his eyes fell to the ground,

not a word would come to his aid, not the commonest

salvation rose upon his memory ; it

seemed as if all power of thought and speech had

been taken from hir n; his heart alone seemed

to have the power of action, and it throbbed

violently. Agnes was little less affected by this

sudden rencontre ; the face of Quintain had been

impressed upon her memory as indelibly as the

remembrance of the action which introduced horn

to her ; it would shine forth when she thought of

the service he had rendered her ; it would appear

when she reflected upon his valour, and the

modesty with which he had received her thanks ;

it would interfere with her gratitude, when she

thought kindly of his conduct ; she saw his handsome

features, they floated before her eyes in

sweet dreamy visions the whole night of their

first meeting ; and when the dawn came, and exhausted

nature glided softly into a gentle slumber,

she dreamed that she was in heaven, wandering

among the bright shining places and in its cool

retreats with Quintain Matsys. Had he known

this, had fate been so kind as to give horn one

small hint, he had perhaps found a tongue with

many a kind and pleasant thing to say ; but as he

was unfathomably in the dark respecting so

pleasant a fact, he was as silent as though he

had no voice. There was something flattering in

this silence — so thought Agnes, not incorrectly —

though, without vanity, attributing it to the right

cause, it pleased her better than if he had found

a ready tongue to address her and a free air to

greet her with ; it gave her a moments reflection,

and enabled her to be the first to attempt to

appear unembarrassed, and to be the first to

speak.

I am glad I have met with you," she said ina

soft tone ; "my father has been impatiently expecting

to receive a visit from you ever since you

rendered us both so important a service, in order

that he may have a better opportunity of expressing

his thanks than at the first brief interview.

He has felt some surprise at your absence ; he

imagined you had forgotten the situation of our

residence, or," she added, in a low voice, " were

indifferent to the grateful acknowledgments of

persons so humble as wc are."

"Indeed he wrongs me," said Quintain earnestly,

the ice once broken no one more ready than he

to plunge into the stream of discourse ; " I should

be but too proud to hear his and your praises to

feel the smallest taint of indifference, even were I

less humble than I am — in truth, I would gladly

have visited you to have expressed my hope that

your fright had occasioned no change in your

health, but that I seared my too ready appearance

might have been misconstrued to a desire to

remind you of my good fortune, rather than to an

anxiety to know to what extent you had been

affected by the alarm you must have suffered."

Gratitude can draw no such invidious inferences,"

she rejoined, hastily ; " both my father

and myself, I trust, are far removed from being

guilty of such ungenerous thoughts ; when you

are better acquainted with us, you will have a

higher opinion of our hearts."

A thought crossed Quintain. " Ah 1 if their hearts

were as good as her eyes are beautiful, and her

face lovely, what admirable beings they must be!"

he left his eyes to express his thoughts : he said —

I can attribute more to your kindness than

to my deserts in your favorable reception of me ;

nevertheless, if you will not think me obtrusive, I

will pay thy father, and thee, a visit."

How delighted he will be to see thee," she

exclaimed, with earnestness.

And you ?" he asked, his tongue barely finding

courage to utter the words.

I am not ungrateful," she replied, in a low

tone, dropping her eyes to the ground.

"I will call the very first opportunity," he exclaimed,

the joy of bis heart finding a ready symbol

in the tone of his voice. " To-morrow — i'the

morning — shall — shall I — pray pardon me — you

are alone ; may I have the happiness to see thee to

thy home now 1"

That was a pretty bold step for Quintain's bashfulness,

but then her answer had raised horn to the

seventh heaven of delight, and who should know

so well how to strike the iron while it was hot

as a smith. He waited with impatience for

her reply.

I thank you," she replied gently, " but I have

promised a friend a visit this morning, and— and

my father is from home at present."

Quintain could have bitten his tongue out for

that small exercise of its bravery ; he at once concluded

that he had gone too far, that she would

perceive his eagerness — how could she help it —

and despise it. His heart dropped instantly from

the seventh heaven, to the lowest depths of

despondency; the smallest glance directed towards

Quintain's expressive face told Agnes his disappointment

; her gentle heart sympathised with horn,

and with a sweet smile she extended her hand to

horn, saying—

"I am sorry my father's absence should prevent

you seeing horn this morning, or I should gladly

carry you home as a prize ; however, he will not

tomorrow move from his easel, and then — "

He shall find me a guest," cried Quintain, with

sparkling eyes ; that kind smile and gentle look

raising his heart higher than ever. "If Quintain

Matsys will not be unwelcome."

"Quintain Matsys?" echoed Agnes, with an

air of surprise. "Are you Quintain Matsys ?"

Such is my name," he returned, " if you have

heard it before, I trust it has not been to my discredit."



I have heard it only to be praised," she replied,

immediately ; yet, instead of displaying an

expression of pleasure in making the remark, an

air of sadness stole over her face. She regarded

horn with a fixed look as he, observing the change,

said somewhat warmly—

I trust that you will never, long as you may

know me, hear it coupled with shame or dishonor."



Agnes bowed her head assenting, and, withdrawing

her hand, which she had suffered to remain

in his, made a movement as if to depart ; he

pressed her soft fingers crc he parted with them,

and said —

You will not forget my name ?"

I shall remember it," she replied, in a soft tone.

He would have asked her not to have forgotten

horn, and she could have well rejoined, it would

be impossible, but that was a pleasure yet to come ;

so with a promise on his part, which he had no

intention of breaking, to pay his first visit in the

morning, they parted. He followed her fair form

with his eyes until she quitted the aisle, and then,

after at least five minutes deep abstraction, he

turned to rejoin his confessor, but he was nowhere

to be seen ; he searched the cathedral in every direction,

but could not light upon horn ; he went to

his dwelling, but he had not returned home ; be

sallied back again to the cathedral, but without

success; it seemed as though the confessor had hidden

himself purposely to avoid him. He felt

chagrined, for the advice he required was important,

yet would he have missed horn a thousand

times rather than have lost the sweet opportunity

of conversing with Agnes. Little dwelled his

thoughts upon the matter for the father's council

and guidance. As he traced and retraced his

steps he remembered only the eyes which had

gazed so kindly, the lips which had spoken so

■ i

pleasantly, and the face which was all loveliness ;

even now as he walked it beamed upon horn like

a flood of sunshine ; he felt as though he was in a

dream of paradise, and saw not, heard not, what

passed around him. What visions, what hopes,

what felicity, what joyous futurity he conjured up;

what unrealizable expectations he formed ; what

a world of his own imagining he was wandering

in, he was no longer of earth, earthy, but took his

way as mechanically as though his body was, as

metaphysicians tell us, a mere automaton, and his

soul an essence entirely, save in one sense, independent

of it. He was roused out of his blissful

dreams by a hand being suddenly laid upon his

shoulder, and a voice ringing loudly in his ear the

following words —

How, Quintain I what, pass a friend without

looking on or speaking to horn ? Why, what has

come to thee, man, hast thou taken offence at any

deed of mine ? have I grown distasteful in thine

eyes? — What have I done that thou should'st look

me in the eyes, and pass coldly on as though wc

had never met before?"

Nay, Casper Hauser, I saw thee not," returned

Quintain, grasping his hand warmly ; "my eyes

might have been fixed on thee, but my thoughts,

my memory, were elsewhere."

Why what's i'the wind," said Casper ; " has

thy new task so overwhelmed thee with its magnitude

that thought thoughts for nought else ?

Marry, Quintain, I would not have to do with a

commission that set my brains whirling like a mill

wheel."

It is not the commission that caused my abstraction,"

rejoined Quintain, thoughtlessly.

No ! what then ? Excuse my bluntness, Quin-tin,"

exclaimed Casper, " but I have a brothers

feeling — that is," he interrupted himself, turning

slightly red — "that is, I mean I have known thee,

as thou know'st, from infancy, and 1 have a brothers

fondness for thee ; it may make me overstep

my manners in asking the questions which perhaps

concern me not, but as I am ever interested in

thee, I am interested in what concerns thee. I tell

thee I have my suspicions respecting he whom

thought executing this screen for; he comes in a

manner I like not, because it is cloaked in mystery,

and right honest actions and honest men are open

as the day — how often have I heard thee say so,

and it is the truth — "

Though I said it," interrupted Quintain, with

a smile.

Nay, let who will say it," continued Casper,

I like not this patron of thine ; if he was a goodman

and true, why slink and glide about like a

cut-throat in the night? Why, he hath changed

thee, Quintain."

Changed me ?" echoed Quintain in a tone of

surprise.

Aye, that hath he," replied Casper, speaking

boldly ; " since thou hast made his acquaintance

thou hast become another being. Whose laugh

was more, light, careless, and mirthful than thine ?

whose voice sang louder or more joyously? whose

eye danced brighter? whose words were merrier

or more jestful ? whose step so light and free as

thine? And now thy brow is ever clouded; wc

never hear thy laugh, thy jest ; thou dost not

smile, save it be mournfully; thou highest, thine

eye is heavy, thy step sedate — why is this ? what

means this change? Why, Quintain, thou who

wert so open that thou hadst not even a thought

from thy mother or dear sister Blanche, art now

as secret and as close as the grave — thou, who

wert ever so glad of their presence, dost now

shun them."

I — l shun them ! Casper Hauser, you

speak unadvisedly," exclaimed Quintain, haughtily."



Not I ; by my right hand, Quintain ; they have

noted it — they have wept at it ; I, too, have observed

it ; thou wilt not doubt me now ? Quintain,

wc have grown up together friends without alloy ;

test me now if I am not as true as of old. Thought

in some strait ; let me know of it, and if I cut

not my way to thy quiet, look no more on rae.

You hesitate, Quintain : I have never doubted thy

faith to me, do not wound me by doubting mine

to thee. My sword and my life are at thy service ;

only shew me how I may use them, and this foe

to thy peace, be he who he may, shall see, though

I have not thy head-piece, I have at least thy

heart, and a good right arm."

"I do not doubt thee, Casper," said Quiutin,

speaking warmly ; " I have had too many proofs

of thy hearty friendship to hold such a thought ;

let me tell thee thought mistaken in thy surmise, it

is not any matter connected in any way with my

strange commission that hath made any change

in me ; if there is a change, it is caused by that

for which there is no need of alarm."

"What, Quintain — what — love?" cried Casper,

his hitherto grave face lighting up with smiles.

No — no — it is nothing — I am a fool," muttered

Quintain, and then, musing for a moment,

said —

Art thou walking towards my home ?"

Aye," replied Casper, glad of any excuse that

would get horn a sight of Blanche, " shall 1 walk

with thee?"

Yes," returned Quintain, " I will trust thee,

as far as my honour will permit me, with the

reason for my changed manner ; I like not the

conduct of those whom I met when I went to

shew the designs I made for these iron screens ;

I cannot tell thee more at present, but I am to

meet horn who first sought me in this matter at

the ' drinking boors,' in tho market-place, tonight;

— wilt thou accompany me thither ?"

Will I not, Quintain ?" returned Casper, enthusiastically

: " lead thou where thou wilt ; even

into the jaws of the wild devil of the Harz-mountain

— with a shout to my patron sant, I would follow

thee."

I thank thee heartily, Casper," said Quintain,

and added with a smile, " I shall not need thee to

be so adventurous. I have a desire that thou

shouldst accompany me in case I need thy aid,

yet I would not have it known I came attended ;

thou wilt, therefore, be doing me an important service

if thou wilt follow mc. Watch where I enter,

and wait until you see me return, or hear my voice

calling thee. In the latter case have thy sword

bare, and through all impediments gain my side."

You may rely upon me, body and soul," exclaimed

Casper.

Quintain made Casper acquainted with as much

more of the matter as he deemed necessary, and

had hardly concluded crc he reached his dwelling.

Blanche, much to Casper's delight, received them,

and much more to his gratification, he had the satisfaction

of a pleasant discourse with her alone, for

Quintain went to his studio, and the good dame 

was absent. The old lady, however, returned

long before Casper expected or rather wished her,

and therefore, for the sake of appearances, he was

compelled to declare he must hasten away, for

matters of importance called him.

A pleasant young man is Casper," said dame

Matsys, as he quitted, having said some flattering

thing to her, " a right pleasant youth ; always in

good spirits, always something cheerful on his

tongue. Marry ! he is pleasant company, everyone

must think so ; I marvel he visits not his friends

more. He must be very partial to us, Blanche,

very ; it is strange he should prefer our society,

wc who are so lonely, to that of gayer friends

'tis strange."

Perhaps Blanche coincided with her mother in

thinking he was a right pleasant youth ; but perhaps

she did not think it strange that he should

prefer their society to that of gayer friends, and

perhaps, as she thought so, a warm feeling of

gratefulness arose in her heart, and she sat and

mused with a dreamy expression of what she

thought beaming in her dark eyes, until roused by

her mother, who told her she was growing as

singular and thoughtful in her manner as her brother.



CHAP. IX.

Evening approached apace, it was clear and serene

; and Quintain, as he gazed upon the sky from

his chamber window, drew strange comparisons between

that unclouded expanse and human life. It

COUNT IDSKBIRO'3 THREAT TO Quintain MATSYS.

was singular how reflective the last few incidents

which had occurred tohim made horn: light-hearted

with all his talent, heart-free with all his personal

qualifications, though not wealthy, yet not wanting

in means of comfort, he passed on the even tenor

of his way without much questioning circumstances

or their relations ; but now it seemed as

though all the faculties of that nature, which had

lain dormant, were called into action, and occupied

all the time he had for thought in drawing inferences

of, to horn, an unusual character. He was

interrupted in the midst of a deep reverie by hearing

the merry laugh of Casper Hauser, in a lower

apartment, echoed by his mother, and concluded

the hour had arrived for his departure. He descended,

but found that Casper, fearing he should

be too late — at least ho said so — had anticipated

the time by at least an hour. The hour, however,

passed away r , and Quintain, followed by Casper,

departed for the ' drinking boors.' Casper obeyed

his instructions to the letter ; he moved in the

footsteps of Quintain in such fashion, that no one

unacquainted with his intention would suppose

that he was purposely taking the same path as our

hero ; and when the hostel was reached, Quintain

entered, and Casper passed on to make his appearance

before the door from another quarter. Quin-tin

had barely crossed the threshold, when he was

encountered by the man he had previously seen ;

who, with an obsequiousness by no means pleasing

to such minds as our hero's, enquired his pleasure.

The name of Frank Merrit was no sooner mentioned,

than, as if it had been a talisman, the obsequiousness

increased to a painful degree: beckoning

Quintain to follow horn, with a countenance at

which the latter did not know whether to laugh or

feel offended,he skipped up a flight of stairs, traversed

a winding gallery, as intricate as a maze, and

at length stopped before the door of an apartment,

and knocked a trembling, sneaking, meanly

humble knock. A quick exclamation of ' Come in'

replied to it, aud the host, gently inserting half

his head into the room, as though he was taking

a hasty peep into a lion's den, murmured —

The person whom you expected waits without."

Shew horn in instantly," was the rejoinder,

uttered in an eager tone.

Tho man immediately took Quintain by the

arm, ushered horn into the room, closed the door,

and disappeared. To Quintain's surprise, instead

of finding Frank Merritt in tho apartment, there

was no one but the old count, at whose castle a

few nights previously he had met with adventures

less pleasing than mysterious. The eye of the

old man glistened like a snake's as it encountered

Quintain's, and a smile, more of triumph than of

welcome, played upon his features.

W r ell met, young smith," ho exclaimed ; "how

progresses the work ? Bravely, I hope. When

will it bo completed?"

1 cannot tell to a day," replied Quintain, " but

thou mayest be assured not a moment will be

wasted in its completion."

"Hast thou any idea of its purpose?" asked

the old man.

None," said Quintiu, " I had else perhaps

produced a design which might have been more

appropriate, and excelled the one adopted."

Nay, thou couldst not please me better in

the design than thou hast," returned the count ;

if the execution equals it I shall be satisfied ;

but canst thou divine the object for which it is

intended?"

I have conjectured many things," replied

Quintain, " without arriving at a conclusion."

Thou wouldst desire to know, doubtless ?"

observed the count, looking fixedly upon him.

Inasmuch as having made tho design, and

fashioned the iron myself, I naturally feel interested

in knowing to what purpose it is to be

applied," answered Quintain.

Thou shalt be made acquainted with it ; but

there are certain conditions attached, to which

you must subscribe," said the count.

Name them!" exclaimed Quintain.

Inviolable secresy, and tho best aid in carrying

out the object," replied the count.

"Then will I remain in ignorance," was

Quintain's brief rejoinder.

The count contracted his brows until they

nearly covered his eyes.

Suppose," he exclaimed, " it is my will that

thou shouldst know, and take the condition I

prescribe."

Pardon me, count, if I forget what is due to

respect," replied Quintain, proudly, " but thy

will cannot govern mine ; I am no man's slave,

be his station what it may — I am free to act as I

please."

"It is tho boast of many a short-sighted fool,

as well as thine, sir worker of iron," retorted ic

count, with biting sarcasm in his tone, " but no

one is free to act as he pleases — he is dependent

upon circumstances; there are few of us but wish

to act in certain ways, and but few of us have the

power ; the will may to a certain extent be guided,

but it cannot be commanded, as you will probably

find crc you depart."

I have so far tho command of my actions as

to suffer nothing to make me consent to that I

think it my duty to refuse, as you will probably

find, Count, crc I depart," returned Quintain boldly.

Wc shall see," exclaimed the count, significantly,

yet haughtily.

"I expected not to meet you here," observed

Quintain, after a moments pause. "My appointment

was with Frank Merritt."

True ! but I have, as you perceive, kept it

for horn," replied the count, " for I have some

matters of, I confess, importance, to settle with

you ; wc have not commenced our interview in so

amicable a spirit as I could have wished, but wc

must try and conduct it in a smoother aud more

pleasing manner to both parties. You are young,

but you have a bold spirit ; I like you not the less

though you have bearded me more freely than

one in my station is apt to take quietly from one

as humble as thou ; still it was not done in uncourteous

ignorance, but in the frank defence of

your honor, and as such it rather pleased than offended

me ; and now, as I perceive the best plan

with thee is to be candid and open, I will at once

tell thee thought in possession of a certain knowledge,

which thou mayest no longer retain without

an oath of secresy, or joining those who have

sworn to accomplish the object for which they have

combined."

I understand you not," said Quintain, doubtful

as to what he alluded.

I will be plainer with thee," he rejoined. " I

have a retainer, named Repel ; a scene took place

between horn and thee in the hall of my castle. I

have to thank horn for the relation of it, and for the

cause which led to it, namely, your refusal to drink

a toast he proposed to thee. Now, young smith,

I have little cause to doubt thy shrewdness ; you

cannot be ignorant from what you saw, or your

connection with the band of Predecessors, that it is

the intent of all the lower classes of Flanders to

throw off the yoke, as they terra it, of the nobles ;

you must have gathered, from what you beheld

in my castle, that they will not be suffered to gain

their object, at least, without wading to their

waists in blood ; but it is not, if possible to avoid

it, the intention of those who have determined to

oppose the base churls, that they should be acquainted

with the opposition which awaits their

mad outbreak, until it falls upon them like a thunder

storm and crushes them at a blow. You, I

find have much influence iv Antwerp among those

who are likely to bo the stoutest in their vile attempt.

A word from you may precipitate our

movements, and render our cause far weaker than

it at present bids fair to be ; you must, therefore,

join us, or consider yourself my prisoner until the

struggle is over. Thou seest I have been explicit

with thee, it now remains for you to declare how

you will act."

Your communication is most important, I acknowledge,"

returned Quintain, more astonished

than he chose to appear, " and it becomes me to

deal as frankly with you as you have with mc. I

am an Antwerp, this city is my birth-place, I am

one of the people — my ancestors have never, as

far as wc can trace back, been serfs ; but still they

boast not high blood, nor did they wish it. lam

their only representative — I feel as they felt ; I

was born one of the people, 1 will die so — their

cause is mine. Are you answered ?"

You speak without reflection," returned the

count ; " you are frank, I admit, but your resolve

is too hastily formed. Weigh well what I have

said : thou must either join us or be prepared for

the worst. Your mere oath of secresy will not,

upon consideration, be sufficient; you must, therefore,

sign our bond. Your personal safety, as a

townsman, after the struggle is over, will be compromised

if your name is not upon our list. What

say ye, wealth, honors, and our cause ; or an adherence

to your own fellows, a dungeon, and a

miserable death ?

Count, the first duty imprinted upon my infant

mid was the preservation of my honor at

every hazard," replied Quintain, firmly : " as I have

grown older I have seen that the lesson was worthy

of being implanted, and when inculcated,

faithfully followed. It was taught me by one who

has long since passed away, who was himself

spotless in soul, and I have often vowed, that whenever

he looked down upon me from his high place

in heaven, he should never have cause, from the

hour of my childhood to my death, to sorrow for

my deviation from the path he would have me pursue.

Count, my good thoughts, my best wishes

are for my town's-people, my heart is with them,

and my duty, which is the strongest and sternest

1 —^—A— —^ ■—^— — — — I I —^AA M^y— —^^— .^.^ .1 Wit. .1 ■

Bond ; there exists not the threat you could hold

out to me which could make me waver in my

truth to them. I fear not death ; I have not been

guilty of any action which should make me blush

to look my Maker in the face, why should I then

fear death? Bodily torments, I think I could

bear, at least without an outward sign to gratify a

savage bosom ; and if not, still I could endure them

without swerving from the line my honor pointed

out for me to pursue. I cannot, I will not join you

in an object at which my soul revolts, and every

perception of what is just and true tells me is base

and tyrannic* 1."

"Thou hast a ready tongue," exclaimed the

count, coolly, " I will test the metal that supports it.

You will find it as true as the best steel ever

forged," returned Quintain, in as cool a tone.

The count smiled and clapped his hands thrice ;

the door instantly flew open, and a dozen men,

armed to the teeth, entered. The count bade them

station themselves in the room, and continued his

colloquy with Quintain ; he drew from his belt a

parchment, to which several seals were attached,

and laying it upon the table towards Matsys, he

said —

There is the bond of which I have spoken to

thee, sign it !"

Thou hast had my answer," returned Quintain,

with an air as undaunted as before.

Guthrie, give me thy pistol," exclaimed the

count, to a fierce-looking trooper who stood near

him. The man instantly drew one of enormous

length from his belt, and placed it in the count's

hand ; immediately he received it, he leaned over

the table and presented it at Quintain's head.

Sign that bond or I will scatter thy brains

upon yonder wall," he exclaimed, speaking through

his grating teeth.

Quintain started, and clapped his hand impulsively

to his sword, but in a moment recovered

his composure, and folding his arms, he fronted

the count with a demeanour which was as remarkable

for its coolness as it was for the determination

it expressed.

Thy cause must be good indeed, to require aid

from a murder done in cold blood," he said, speaking

clear and firmly ; " yet, count, though that instrument

of death is within a few inches of my

brain, and the expression of thine eye shews me

there is no mercy there, yet will I refuse to join

thee, even though thy bullet follows my last word."

He paused, he flinched not a hair's-breadth,

though he saw the finger of the count upon the

trigger, and his firmness probably did for horn

what nothing else could have done ; had he quailed

he had perished. The count lowered the pistol

and muttered —

"It is a pity that so bold a spirit should be

thrust out of the world for a piece of hardihood ;

he may yet he brought to his senses." Then he

added in a louder tone, " I expected some such

display of thy obstinacy as this, and came prepared

for it. I will not slay thee yet, for thou may'st

be brought to reason."

Not to such reason as joining thee — never: I

will perish first," interrupted Quintain.

Of that anon," said the count, " at present

both your person and name shall be mine — the

first I will incarcerate, and the latter I shall use

to the best advantage. Look closely at that parchment,

and mark the last name signed upon it."

Quintain seized it at his bidding, and, with the

greatest astonishment, beheld his signature attached,

forged so faithfully that he could have

almost sworn he had himself written it : he scrutinized

it closely, but not a line wavered ; it was

done clearly and boldly, with as much freedom as

though it had been the clash of his own pen. He

turned his eyes from it to the count, to behold a

triumphant smile lighting up his features ; he felt

his blood tingle in his veins as he witnessed it,

but, curbing his angry feeling, he asked in as

calm a tone as he could assume —

How came you possessed of this ?' it is a

forgery."

"It will serve the purpose for which it has

been done," returned the count. " Mark me,

Quintain Matsys, that signature will be shewn to

such of thy companions whose aid may be useful,

and over whom it is said thou dost possess great

influence. They will not question its truth, it

bears too accurate a resemblance to the original,

as thou knowest ; and, when all who may be of

service to us are gained, thy name will be erased,

an' thou dost not join us, and thy head one of

the first that graces a pole in the market-place."

Quintain clenched his teeth hard; an expression

of desperation, calm, yet determined in its aspect,

stole over his features.

How came you possessed of my signature,

and who was he that forged it ? Thou art not so

base or so cowardly as to refuse to tell me," he

exclaimed, sternly.

Are there no cunning artificers in Antwerp

besides thee f" the count asked, in a sneering

tone; " let it be enough for thee, that it will do its

work as well as though thou hadst freely written

it thyself."

That it never shall," cried Quintain, suddenly

and at the top of his voice. Before his hand could

be stayed, he drew a small anglice or dagger,

which he always wore, and, with the rapidity of

thought, carved the parchment into a thousand

shreds.

The count, as well as his followers, were so

taken by surprise, that he accomplished the deed

before a movement was made by one to prevent

it ; but no sooner was the destruction complete

and palpable, than, with a tremendous oath, the

count seized the pistol, and directing it at Quin-tin's

head, fired it ; fortunately for horn, passion

rendered the count's hand unsteady ; the bullet

whizzed by his ear and lodged in the wainscot.

Quintiu drew his sword and sprung to the wall,

against which he placed his back, feeling convinced

his life was forfeit, but, resolving to soil

it dearly. The first fellow who made towards horn

was armed with a spear ; nc thrust it violently at

Quintain's breast, but, with a powerful cut, our

hero severed the staff iv twain, and slashed his

opponent fearfully across the face. With a wild

shriek tho mau fell to the earth drenched in

blood, aud Quintain, with eyes flashing with almost

superhuman brilliancy, stood to encounter

the next.

It frequently occurs, that the first desperate

act of a brave man at bay, with a bloody and immediate

death staring horn iv the face, will cow

the fiercest ruffian : the sudden and deadly exhibition

of his prowess, and his desperation, makes

them hesitate, and though unaccustomed to fear,

yet feel alarm and pause crc they encounter the

hazard of the fate of a fallen companion, even

though their numbers may quadruple that of

their enemy. There is a vast difference in the

energy exhibited between horn who seeks to slay

from some object only of inferior importance to

himself, and he who sees only in the destruction

of all his opponents the safety of his life ; no one

is so capable of judging the difference as the badman,

whoso motive for slaughter is pecuniary.

The most ruthless bravo has been known to fly

before the sword of horn he could not stab secretly,

even though a reputation for swordsmanship

dwelled not with the man ho would have slain,

because he was well acquainted with the distinction

in the spirit which animates a man fighting

for gain, or for another, and fighting for life.

Thus, Quintain had no sooner disposed of his first

antagonist than there was a pause, as to who

should be the second. His aspect was resolute,

his position good, his courage unquestionable, and

his skill undoubted ; he was a youth, and alone, it

was true, but his bearing was that of one expecting

death with a firm front, and a determined

resolution to avenge it crc he fell ; his eyes ran

rapidly from one countenance to another, and

his clenched teeth, and inflated nostrils, told he

was ready for the encounter, let who might commence

it. The pause after the fall of the trooper

was not a minutes duration ; the count, enraged

at the want of success in his aim, shouted to his

fellows to fall on.

How horn down!" he cried, in vindictive tones

Cleave horn to the earth, the insolent slave !

Why pause ye knaves ? Upon horn ! upon hir n;

leave not a gram of life quivering in a limb."

The men closed round Quintiu, but slowly.

The count, infuriated by their cautious movements,

himself sprung forward, brandishing his sword,

and, with more passion than discretion, attacked

our hero : his example was quickly followed by

his fellows. Quintain exerted himself with a strength

which nothing but despair of life could have given

horn ; blows rained upon horn like hail, his sword

flashed iv all directions to meet and parry the

thrusts and cuts made at horn, but, though his

energy never failed horn, he felt, notwithstanding,

his dexterity aud skill must give way before such

unequal odds. At the top of his voice he shouted

the name of Casper Hauser ; the count fearing he

had some help at haud which he had not previously

suspected and prepared for, redoubled his

efforts to slay the object of his vengeance. It was

in vain that he himself wielded his sword ; rage

prevented horn being skilful, and, without skill, he

could not break through Quintain's guard. His

troopers were huddled together, and lead not free

use for their spears, with which all were armed,

and thus Quintiu was enabled to keep them at bay

longer than he would have done had they been similarly

armed to himself. Each man, enraged at

being foiled, encreased his exertions. The blows

on all sides were more rapid. Quintain felt his

strength departing, yet he resolved to sell his life

dearly. The door was near, and upon a latch ;

he thought, by a desperate effort, he might dash

through his foes, gain it, and fight his way to the

street. As he prepared himself for the task, and

from parrying only, attacked his opponents with

fury, he received a wound on the shoulder from the

sword of the count ; he felt the hot blood run down

his arm, and saw at the same time the opposition

was too formidable to break through. A prayer

for his mother and sister passed his lips, one

thought of Agnes Flors, a hope that heaven would

have mercy on his soul, and then he fought recklessly.

The fray was at its height, when the door

burst open, and a tall figure, regardless of danger,

dashed among the combatants, thrusting them

back on either side with a strength which was extraordinary.



Down with your blades ! down with them, I

say," he cried, in stentorian tones. "By the foul

fiend ! he that continues the fight shall have me

for a foe. Down with your weapons. Are ye mad

or drunk ? Hold I he who values his life — hold

I say !"

As he used his own sword in knocking the spears

aside, and interposed his huge person between

Quintain and his foes, he was obeyed quicker than

had his voice alone been heard. The fray ceased,

and all eyes were turned towards the intruder — a

welcome bona, truly, for Quintain. It was Frank

Merritt ; he looked from the troopers to Quintain

and back again to the men, and then with a scornful

laugh, he said—

Why truly this is a brave feat, a right gallant

exercise of your courage aud skill, for a

dozen of ye to fall upon a single youth — aye, and

then not be able to strike horn j shuttle upon ye,

dastards! — By my soul ! arid 1 might make a

better oath, but ye tire not worthy of It, I would

not acknowledge ye as followers of mine, though

a world of wealth Was offered me to head ye.

Dogs I is this the fashion of yotlr practice for the

great cause in which ye httvrj embarked? By

the sword of my fathers ! if I truly thought so,

you might look elsewhere for a Comrade ; I would

not side with ye an hour !"

Frank Merritt, you forget before whom ye

stand," exclaimed the count, fiercely; " how dare

you interpose between me and my vengeance ?"

For the same reason that I do many other

acts of a like character ; it is my will," he returned,

proudly. " I tell ye, count, I know in

whose presence I stand, and I repeat, it is worse

than a cowardly deed for these rough strong-limbed

rogues to fall like a pack of hungry

wolves upon a single man, and he so young and

slight. Back knaves ! and when your weapons

are needed, let not your manhood be shamed by

such a coward's trick as this."

The men, abashed, shrunk to a farther corner

of the room, while the count, whose passion

seemed to have been paralyzed by astonishment,

looked on as though he doubted his senses ; he

was not long in finding a tongue ; his passion

speedily returned, and, in a hoarse voice, he roared,

Insolent slave ! what, art thou commander

here ? — thou ? a clog, a serf, I have raised from

the lowest depths of miserable degradation —

thou! To beard me, to thrust thy will in my face,

upstart villain ! Look thou dost humble thy tone

and bearing, crc I order thee to be hewn limb

from liinb."

Thou dar'st give no such order, Count

Idenberg," exclaimed Frank coolly.

Dar'st not! — dar'st not" repeated the count,

foaming with rage. " Upon them both — upon

them, villains ! cut me the braggart down, spare

not for shriek or prayer — cut them to pieces !"

"Aha l" shouted Frank, drawing his sword

and throwing himself into an attitude of defence,

"Wbo is the first impatient to bite the earth?

Come, on rogues, come on ! a dozen of ye, single-handed,

is but sport to mc."

The men looked at the count, and then at Frank ;

his huge frame appeared most formidable in the

dim light which the lamp shed, too formidable, indeed,

for any of the troopers to be anxious to commence

an attack upon him. It seemed as though,

animated by one feeling, they were deaf to the

commands of the count ; aud he, worked up into

a frenzy, rushed forward to attack Frank Merritt

as he had done Quintain. Frank received his wild

blows upon his weapon with perfect coolness, and

in less than a minute disarmed him.

Count," he said, as the nobles sword flew

from his hand across the room, " your person

is sacred — at least, from my steel ! let me request

you to cease this wild passion, which, if continued,

v ill rob you of all you desire to gain ; and tell mein

what this youngster hath committed himself,

that he should mood thy wrath so as to fill thee

with a desire for his life."

Slave !" uttered the count, passionately,

Cut-throat — forest-thief — "

Peace," cried Frank, interrupting horn in a

tone of voice which almost startled Quiutin, and

made the room echo ; " Peace, sir Count. By

the Demon of the Brocken ! it will do thee no

good to rouse the wild devil in me ; it will take a

power greater than thine to lay it. Be advised,

my lord," he added in cooler tones ; "it will not

suit thee, as thou knowest, to quarrel and make

on enemy of me ; divest thyself of this useless fury,

and look on this matter with calmer eyes — it is

the only way to unravel tho tangle in which all

seem fixed."

There was something in his manner and tone

which had the effect of cooling down the anger of

count Idenberg, or it might have been the matter

of his speech that did it : whatever it was, the

fiery noble, in a calmer voice than he had for sometime

used, related the scene between himself and

Quintain which had occurred previous tc^Frank's

entrance, and exhibited the shreds of parchment,

not only as a proof of the truth of his story, but

as a justification for attacking him. Frank heard

horn patiently', until he had concluded; he turned

an approving smile upon Quintain, and then said

to the count in so low, a tone that Quintain could

not catch enough to understand his speech —

Thou hast acted unwisely, count ; thou

shouldst have gone to work differently ; thou wert

too hasty. His is no spirit, as thou seest, to be

compelled to an act, the honor and honesty of

which he doubts ; thou shouldst by degrees have

led horn into a web, where he so tangled himself

that, unless he sided with thee, he had no chance

of escape or life."

What, stoop to this trouble with a knave so

humble?" ejaculated the count. " A stave — "

lie is of use, nay, is almost necessary to our

cause in this city," interrupted Frank, "and were

he ten times more humble or basely born, wc still

must gain horn, let the 'rouble and artifice

be what it may. Leave me to deal with horn ;

credit me as a dull, witless fool, if I do not bring

horn over to act with us, even with a free will ; and

without he uses his influence, which nothing but

free will will make horn exert, he is worthless to

our cause. Leave horn to me ; I know whore his

ambition soars and his weak point sinks, and it

shall go hard but while 1 flatter the one I seize

the other."

"Be it so," returned the Count. " I hold thee

responsible for horn ; if he plays us foul, not thy

stalwart frame shall save tlicc from a cutthroats



"I take the risk," said Frank, with a scornful

look.

Now remove horn from my sight, for my blood

boils as I look upon horn," said the count, grinding

his teeth, and looking with a revengeful glance

at Quintain, " and were it not that in the city so

large a number of fools are at the beck of so mean

a churl as this, not all thy counsel, wise or unwise,

should keep me from cutting horn to pieces where

he stands. Away with horn, or my gall may yet

throw my discretion."

Ay ! my lord, there lies your weakness," observed

Frank, bluntly. " You need a slight curb

for your temper, or, by St. Bavon ! it will unseat

ye : a hasty temper is a sad intruder upon a cunning

project ; I have known many a pretty plan

destroyed by hot blood. Look to it, count ; wc

have all to gain by coolness — everything to lose

by rashness".

"Enough of this schooling," haughtily interrupted

count Idenberg, " rid me of the hateful

presence of yon slave, and do as thou wilt respecting

him."

He turned his back on Frank as he spoke, and

threw himself, moodily, in a chair. Merritt gave

a smile of intense scorn, but chased it away in an

instant ; and, with an open, friendly expression of

countenance, he stepped towards Quintain, took

horn by the arm, and said —

Come with me, Quintain ; I promise thee better

treatment than thou hast met with here."

Our hero suffered himself to be led from the

chamber without offering the slightest opposition,

but when he gained the corridor, he shook off his

companion, and exclaimed in a tone of bitter reproach

—

Thou hast deceived me — shamefully, basely

deceived rae. Thou hast sought me in my abode,

and with a lie in thy mouth hast endeavored to

ensnare me into an infamous project against the

rights and liberties of my fellow-citizens, and so

betray mine honor — "

Spare thy hard words, Quintain," interrupted

Diction OP AGNES FLOR

Frank, " until you know more, both of me and the

position in which lam placed. lam your friend ;

I ask you not to judge by what is past, though I

have but now perilled some little in your behalf,

but by what is to come. I sought you, it is true ;

yet, though events have turned out strangely, it

was but the skilful employment of thy handicraft

which brought me to thy dwelling — for much of the

rest you have to thank a too ready tongue. Count

Idenberg knows as well as most men how to lead

a question — few are readier with their answers

than thou. The proceedings of to-night lie not

on my shoulder : I wrote to thee to meet me here

I confess ; but I did not expect the count would

forestal me, nor did I anticipate that thou wouldst

make thy appearance here before the appointed

time. With what followed I had no connection,

save that I kept my appointment with a punctuality

for which you have some reason to be

thankful — but of this anon. You came hither

attended by a friend : that you might have had

some misgivings from what has occurred since our

acquaintance I can well imagine, but it was not

wise to bring one who is ready to pick a quarrel,

if one wears not the feather in one's hat to please

him."

"What of Casper Hauser ?" enquired Quintain,

with eagerness.

I have horn fast in a chamber, raging like a

wounded tiger," replied Frank, laughing ; "he

heard the report of a pistol, and, if I mistake not,

thy voice calling on horn to aid thee. Ho forced

his way into the hostel, and had I not disarmed

horn, and, in spite of his struggles, caused horn to

be bound hand and foot, he would have brought

certain death upon himself and thee."

Let horn free at once," exclaimed Quintain,

"and lei us depart; I feel faint".

Art thou wounded, Quintain ?" enquired Frank,

hastily.

"In the shoulder," he replied ; " 'tis but a

scratch, yet it bleeds freely ; I would I were at

home."

He staggered as he spoke : Frank observed it,

and stretched forth his arm to support him.

Quintain would have refused it, but a sudden dimness

affected his sight, he grew dizzy, and with a

slight groan he fell back in a swoon from loss of

blood.

CHAP. X.

Von Haalst, smarting beneath the insult he

had received from Frank Flors, followed his c conductor

to a mean-looking house. He entered it,

and, proceeding up a flight of worm-eaten stairs,

which creaked beneath his heavy tread, was

ushered into a miserable apartment where, upon

a wretched bed, lay the ruffian Graafenberg,

groaning and swearing at the agony of his wounds.

He turned his ghastly face to Von Haalst as he

entered, and said, in a hollow voice —

I am glad thought come, thou wilt now see I

failed not in carrying off the girl without cause.

I know your hasty temper, Meinherr Von Haalst,

and didst thou not see me stretched here with a

wound deep enough to make my life a question,

thou wouldst vow I affected this dangerous condition,

to cover my failure."

I know not but thou dost it now," exclaimed

Von Haalst, with a cold unfeeling laugh, which

made the wounded man gnash his teeth ; " I know

at least that thought a rank coward, and the knave

who accompanied thee is worse ; thou shalt

attempt nothing more for me. I would not have

visited thee, but that I wish to have a description

of the fellow who frighted ye so woefully, that I

may return the favor of his interference."

To taunt and scorn me is not the way to

gather information from me," muttered Graafen-

berg, moodily.

Well, I will woo thee to speech as I would

a coy maiden," sarcastically rejoined Von Haalst,

or find some method," he added, sternly, "to

make you speak, which may even be less pleasant

than a taunt ; thou didst see the man who attacked

thee, or didst thou shut thine eyes when he made

his appearance, and stand like a sheep to be

slaughtered ?"

I saw horn clearly," returned Graafenberg,

writhing at the tone in which Von Haalst spoke.

If I mistake not, it was Quintain Matsys."

And who is Quintain Matsys ?" interrogated

Von Haalst.

Hast thou not heard his name ?" enquired

the man with surprise]; "he is famed for his skill

as a smith, and for his feats in all manner of

sports ; he leads the Predecessors ; and it was the

belief that he had a dozen of his comrades at his

heels that made me fly."

"Where is he to be found?" enquired Von

Haalst.

Graafenberg gave Quintain's address, aud Von

Haalst rejoined —

If thou dost wish to regain my favour, you

will bring rae information of his death. I care

not by what means you accomplish it, whether

poison or steel, so that he be removed— thou

shalt not lack gold for thy reward ; until then let

me not see or hear from you."

He turned to depart as he spoke : Graafenberg

called to horn to stay.

This slashed shoulder," he said, " was obtained

in your service — you will not let me he

here without the means of recovery ? You

promised me a large reward if I carried off Flors'

daughter ; my ill success was not owing to my

fault."

I have my own opinion of that," drily remarked

Von Haalst ; " but that thou may'st not

starve or die for need of a leech, there is gold,"

he threw a purse upon the bed " when it is

expended send to me for another, but not a stiver

beyond it until I hear of the death of this meddling

Matsys."

He quitted the room, and, descending the

stairs, passed out of the house. He directed his

steps to the street in which Quintain resided, and

was not long in reaching his house, resolved, if

possible, to gain an interview with horn on some

frivolous pretext, in order to ascertain what description

of rival he possessed in him. Quintain

was absent when he called; he, however, saw

Blanche, and was struck by her beauty. He

could tell easily the devotion which existed between

the brother and sister by the short converse

he had with her, and he determined instantly to

strike a deadly blow at Quintain's heart through

her. He had a fertile brain for villanous schemes,

and he quickly laid a plan by which he hoped to

be amply revenged for Quintain's frustration of

his base design upon Agnes Flors ; he retraced

his steps, passed through the gates of the city,

and, taking a circuitous route, arrived on the

banks of the Scheldt. He wandered by its side

for a considerable distance, until he reached a

point where a boat lay fastened to a small post on

the shore. He cast off the rope, jumped into the

boat, and rowed himself across the river to an old

mill, which stood upon the opposite side. Ere

the boat touched the bank, a man made his appearance

from the mill; he assisted Von Haalst to

laud, and said quickly —

I waited here until the dawn for thy people

with the maiden : have you failed in your scheme

that they came not ?"

I entrusted its fulfilment to a brace of cowardly

knaves, who fled at the first glitter of an

intruder's blade. A curse upon them !" replied

Von Haalst, entering the mill, followed by the

man. " But 111 trust no more to such chicken-souled

rogues, I'll proceed upon a surer plan. Tell

me, Schmidt," he continued, throwing himself

into a chair, "hast thou a soul for enterprise?

hast thou a fear of one who carries a sword, and

knows how to use it ?"

Why — a — as to fear, I have no fear, more

than any other man," returned Schmidt, hesitatingly

; " I care for no man breathing — that is to

say, I am not afraid of any one ; but I am no

swordsman, I never learned a sword's use — I never

exactly liked the sport, and, to say truth, a sword

is an ugly weapon."

"To say truth," replied Von Haalst, "you

are a greater coward than Graafenberg, and I

thought that impossible ; however, you can be

done without, that at least is a consolation."

"I am not inclined to fighting — I never was; it

is not in my nature ; I am fond of peace," said

Schmidt, in a cringing tone, "but 1 have a brother

who is a desperate fellow, I assure you."

Indeed !" yawned Von Haalst.

Ay, that is he, continued Schmidt ; " such

mustachios — such a beard — such a fierce manner

; why he makes my blood crawl when he turns

his eyes full upon me sometimes. Yet wc are

fond of each other, I and Steinhart ; he's your

man for fighting — I do believe he would not

fear the Evil one himself. He is not quite so

scrupulous in his principles as the law considers

necessary, but then your bold hearts hate to be

restrained in their actions."

Schmidt had now said sufficient to interest

Von Haalst.

"Where is this cousin of thine to be met with,"

he enquired.

Why — I think I may trust you — he is here,

I have secreted horn," returned Schmidt. " You

see he quarrelled with a young man of property,

the elder brother of a friend of his, and slew

him."

And is the brother pursuing horn?" asked

Von Haalst.

Not exactly. You see the brother has come

in for all the property : he is friendly with Stein-hart,

for he knows it was not his fault," returned

Schmidt, with a cunning smile.

I understand," uttered Von Haalst ; " bring

horn to mc."

I know not, you see, what eyes may be prying

about," replied Schmidt, "perhaps you will

ascend the mill with mc."

Lead on," said Von Haalst, laconically.

The man obeyed ; and when they reached a

small chamber above, containing an extensive

variety of lumber, Schmidt coughed, clapped

his hands thrice, and from among the rubbish a

figure rose up, like a demon ascending from the devastation

he had himself created. A glance told

Von Haalst, that were he to pick from all the

ruffians in the world, his choice would fall on

Steinhart as the most perfect; his large eyes,

bushy eyebrows black as night, rough beard, aud

fierce mustachios, a ghastly face, and long matted

hair, were sufficient to convince any one that

he could not be an angel, unless it were the angel

of darkness. He turned his eyes from Schmidt

to Von Haalst, and in a gruff harsh voice said —

Well, what do you want with me ?"

You can be of service to me," said Von

Haalst.

How?" he asked.

You are not troubled with scruples of conscience,

I think," said Von Haalst, " or else your

looks belie you. I have an occupation which

may render thy sword needful ; do you think of

its edge before you use it ?"

Only that it may be sharp enough to do the

work required," he returned.

Are you susceptible to a maidens tears and

prayers ?" asked Von Haalst.

Steinhart returned a smile so grim, so ruthless,

that Von Haalst at once ejaculated —

I am satisfied ; remain here until you hear

from me, and then fail not to be at the spot I

may appoint for you to meet mc."

"You pay well?" suggested Steinhart, significantly.



An' thou dost thy work well you shall have

need to thank my liberality," replied Von Haalst,

in a haughty tone, and then, with an air of disgust,

which he took little trouble to conceal, he quitted

the room and regained the lower apartment, followed

obsequiously by Schmidt, who, observed ina

servile tone —

I hope my brother will fulfil your wishes to

your satisfaction ; he is rather abrupt in his manner,

but you will find horn devoted to you."

If I pay horn well ?" added Von Haalst.

and was silent.

Keep the coast clear," continued Von Haalst ;

** let there be no prying eyes when I arrive with

my prize, have the horses in readiness — in short,

if there is any delay, not a guilder shall be thine.

There is other work in hand, which, if the present

service is well performed, may bring thee gold ;

however, I shall see how thou dost thy duty to mein

this matter crc I speak to thee of aught else.

Farewell !"

With the same abruptness with which he concluded

iiis speech he quitted the mill, and hastened

to the spot where the boat was moored He

made no reply to one or two remarks from

Schmidt, but, casting off the rope, leaped into his

little vessel and rowed to the opposite shore.

A few nights subsequently — indeed, upon the

very night of the day that Quintain had promised

to pay his visit to Frank Flors — Agnes sat

alone in her chamber ; all that day she had looked

anxiously for Quintain's arrival, but he did not

come. What a long, long day it appeared to her ;

how she had watched, and fancied every figure

she saw approaching the house might be hir n;

how angry she began to feel when evening drew

near, and still he was absent ; then she grew sad,

and a remembrance crossed her, the same which

had flashed through her brain in the cathedral

when he mentioned his name, and, oh ! how it

added to the melancholy that stole over her. All

that day Flors had spoken of horn unceasingly ;

Agnes had listened with gratification, for there

was something pleasing in the sound of his name ;

every foot fall, every knock at the portal they expected

to see horn appear, but no — hour after hour

passed and he came not. Flors found a thousand

excuses for his non-appearance : Agnes could not

discover one. Flors was satisfied he would come

the following morning : Agnes was sure he would

not come at all. And then she wondered whether

he was frequent in his visits to the cathedral, but

this thought was suppressed by a flush of pride,

which told her that if he was indifferent, it did not

become her to be otherwise ; but then he had

perilled his life for her, and should she not be

grateful for that, even though he was cold and

almost insensible of her existence ? Oh ! how she

wished she had some stronger claim upon his

remembrance than she at present held; how dearly

she wished there had been some more powerful

tie to keep her in his memory as tenderly as she

held horn in hers. As the sun was declining, Flors

proposed a visit to a neighbouring friend, more

for the sake of a walk than aught else, but Agnes

declined ; she was in no frame of mid for visiting,

for doing anything, in short, but thinking ; Flors'

eloquence, therefore, to induce her to accompany

horn was thrown away, and, attributing her reluctance

to a fear of a similar scene to that from

which Quintain had rescued her, he gave up the

point and departed alone. Perhaps a latent

thought lurked in the mid of Agnes, that Quin-tin

might yet call that night ; but she would not

acknowledge even to herself that any such idea

presented itself. She sat alone in her chamber,

abstracted, full of strange hopes, made sad by

thoughts which would intrude, when she was suddenly

disturbed by a violent knocking at the

portal : iv a few minutes more the servant entered,

with a face as pale as death, and said—

Oh ! Miss Agnes — dear miss Agnes, such

dreadful tidings — oh ! Holy Virgin support us !

such horrid news."

"For heaven's sake, what is the matter?" exclaimed

Agnes, starting to her feet; "tell me,

Bertha, quickly."

How shall I utter it !" cried the girl, wringing

her hands ; " how shall I ever tell you, dear

miss Agnes ? Oh ! what a dreadful thing ! I

can never tell you."

Do not keep me in suspense, my dear good

Girl," ejaculated Agnes anxiously, her heart throbbing

violently with a feeling of alarm stealing rapidly

over her; "pray tell me what has happened."

"Oh ! dear— oh ! dear," continued the girl,

in a weeping tone, " that anything so dreadful

should have happened to master — oh ! dear, oh !

dear."

For mercy's sake I tell me what has occurred,"

cried Agnes, affrighted by what the girl half communicated

; " has anything happened to my dear

father?"

"Oh ! yes, miss ; there's old dame Gretchen

below, ana she told me she met a man asking for

this house, and when she told horn where it was,

he told her master had been seized with death."

Agnes shrieked with horror.

Holy mother, protect me !" she exclaimed,

distractedly, " where is he ? for heaven's sake,

girl, tell mc."

The man says he was seized suddenly, while

walking," returned the girl, " and is at the house

of a stranger beyond the east gate."

Without waiting to hear more, Agnes tied a

small veil over her head, and flew down the stairs.

A man was waiting at the foot.

"Where is my father?" she cried, excitedly,

lead me to horn, I implore you."

That's what I came for, miss," said the man

with a rude attempt at a bow ; "if you'll follow

me," he continued, "I'll take you there before

you know where you are."

"Quick! quick! I beseech you," she returned,

hardly able to utter the words from excessive

agitation.

I am as willing for speed as you," he rejoined,

with a laugh, which he instantly checked on observing

her ashy face.

Shall 1 come with you, miss ?" said Bertha.

You may, Bertha ; but oh ! let us not delay

one moment," rejoined Agnes.

"No — no," exclaimed the man gruffly, to Bertha;

"wc can't have you, you 11 only impede us,

you must not come."

Must not?" cried Bertha, her blood mounting

to her forehead ; " must not ? quotha ! but I

will come."

"No — no, I tell you," he replied, sternly, " I

tell you no ; there's no room for you, you'll be in

the way."

I can walk or run as quick as you," returned

Bertha, quickly, " and I can squeeze any where

I shall not be any more in the way than you ;

and I will come."

Then I don't move an inch," answered the

fellow, doggedly."

Remain here, Bertha," said Agnes, immediately

; " remain here, good girl, I shall soon return

; wc are delaying time fearfully ; my father

may have breathed his last crc I reach him. Oh,

man, man, if you have mercy or pity, lead me to

horn without a moments pause."

As quickly as you please, only no girls on our

heels to pull us back one out of every two steps

wc take," said the man surlily.

Bertha had a long string of names to attach to

the fellow at her tongue's end, but sympathy for

the agony of mid Agnes displayed prevented

her uttering them. She therefore waited until

her young mistress and her conductor were out of

sight — then she made a clean breast of them.

Agnes, no sooner found in what direction the

man proceeded than she hurried forward at her

swiftest pace. The fellow followed her as quickly

as he could, but he discovered that it required

some nimbleness of foot to keep up with her ; he,

however, for some time, made no remark, until he

perceived, that passers by, of whom there were

still many, observed her hurried step and agitated

air ; he then made some little exertion and overtook

her.

There's no occasion for you to go so fast," he

exclaimed, in his harsh voice, "your father's not

so bad as all that ; hell do well enough ; there's

a leech with him."

He may die crc I reach horn," she cried, ina

tone of anguish, still hurrying forward.

Not he," returned the fellow, " he's too tough

an old bird for that ; besides, I tell you he's not

very bad, only he wanted to see you, so you may

slacken your speed, for don't you see there's

every body looking after us ?"

I care not for strangers, I think only of my

father," she returned, excitedly.

Then you may go forward and find out where

he is by yourself," exclaimed the fellow, rudely,

I don't mean, for all the fathers in the world, to

run through .Antwerp as if I were mad, to please

you nor any body."

Agnes appealed to his feelings in vain, he was

inexorable ; he even went so far as to tell her, that

if she displayed so much agitation he would not accompany

her. Her distracted air had attracted

the attention of several persons, and the fellow

seemed strongly tenacious of being observed. She

complied with his wish as far as she was able, and

they proceeded together until they passed through

the east gate. This barrier passed, the man at

once altered his manner and pace ; he now hurried

forward so swiftly that Agnes found it difficult to

keep up with him. He dropped several hints respecting

her father's danger, calculated to make

her use her best exertions, without questioning the

cause of this change ; indeed, she was too anxious

to reach her father, not to be thankful for it. It

was not until Antwerp was left some little distance

behind, and the few cottages in the outskirts

passed, that Agnes felt a sudden distrust seize her ;

the instant it flashed through her mid she

stopped, and demanded of the man whither he was

leading her. He replied gruffly, that they had

now only a short distance to proceed. Her father

had wandered near a hut some short way further

when seized with the sudden illness, and there he

was lying. As Flors, upon quitting his daughter

that night, had stated he was going to visit a friend

not a very great distance from his own residence,

and as on such occasions he rarely altered his intentions,

Agnes felt her doubts increase as the

way became more lonely. Once more she paused

and questioned the man : his answer was ruder

than before, and his manner so insolent, that fear

for herself began to assure the place of anxiety

for her father. Still, however, the man hurried

forward, urging her to increase her speed, which,

exhausted by the exertions she had already made,

she found it impossible to comply with ; the more

especially, as a horror was upon her that she was

being deceived. For some time one hut only had

been in sight, and this she fully believed, if there

was any truth in her companion's story, to be the

one iv which her father was lying ; but when it

was reached and passed, and as far as the eye

could see there was no habitation perceivable, her

heart sunk within her. Summoning all the courage

she possessed, she stopped and refused to

proceed farther, candidly telling the fellow her

suspicions, that she was being made the victim of

some base conspiracy, and that she was resolved

to retrace her steps. He seized her rudely by

the arm, and with a coarse laugh, told her to think

what she pleased — she should go with him. She

screamed loudly, and, using all her strength, succeeded

in wresting her wrist from his grasp. She

fled towards Antwerp with all her speed, but crc

she had proceeded far, she was overtaken by the

ruffian, and seized with a violence which pained

her exceedingly.

Not so fast, my smooth-faced damsel," he exclaimed,

with considerable insolence in his tone,

I have not snared you thus far to let you fly so

easily ; come, pretty one, you must back with me ;

make no resistance, for that is useless, and will

only procure you rough treatment, but come willingly,

and by Rübezahl ! I will woo thee as wc

walk, though Im not much schooled in saying

fine words to you minikin maids."

Let me return, I implore you," exclaimed

Agnes, beseechingly. " Think of the misery yon

are creating by acting thus, without gaining good

to yourself."

I beg your pardon, my pretty dove," he returned,

laughing ; " I gain something better that

a hundred golden guilders."

It shall be doubled, if you will but restore

me," cried Agnes, quickly, " nay, trebled. My

father is rich, and will pay gladly any sum to have

me restored safely to his arms."

Trebled," repeated the fellow ; " why, aye,

that is a noble offer, I confess, and were I otherwise

situated it might tempt me ; but as I am far

more likely to be treated to a hempen collar without

shrift, that gold when I claimed my reward,

Ille en take the lesser but more certain offer of

my present employer, and fulfil my task. Come,

wc have wasted words sufficient— we must proceed."



Let me return, I entreat you," exclaimed Agnes,

imploringly ; " I will ensure you a larger sum

than I have named, and perfect safety to yourself.

Upon my knees I will swear it, if you will but restore

me to my father. Have pity, have mercy

u pon me, and drag me not to a dreadful death."

Why what's the pretty fool thinking about,' '

cried the ruffian, with a laugh. " Death ! I drag

you to death ? I am taking you to a lover, one

who will go far enough to turn fool so as to make

you happy."

I would rather you slay me upon this spot

than take me," uttered Agnes, with a shudder,

and bless you for the mercy you displayed."

Why, no," exclaimed he, " I don't think I

could slay a woman unless she very much provoked

rae, and then, as I am a little hasty in my

temper, I might have to look a little sharp for

patience — but this is wasting time. Come, 1 cannot

let you leave rae until I have placed you in his

hands who employed mc."

Will no reward tempt you," she cried entreatingly:

"my father is rich — "

You and your father are two people," interrupted

the fellow. "It is easy to promise for

another person, but not so easy to make them perform

the promise ; your father is more than likely

to hold a very different opinion to you as to the

amount and manner of my reward. lam too old

in these matters not to judge well and truly respecting

them ; I shall therefore keep my agreement

with Mynheer Von Haalst."

"With whom?" asked .agnes, eagerly; the

fellow, thrown off his guard by the tone in which

she asked the question, repeated it.

Then Heaven help me !" she exclaimed, "for

I am lost I"

Again the man urged her to proceed, and again

she entreated and prayed horn to suffer her to return,

offering horn the most extravagant rewards

to induce horn to comply ; but he turned a deaf

ear to her entreaties, and, growing impatient, became

still harsher in his manner. He endeavored

to pull her along by the wrist, but she resisted ;

she fell on her knees, and in the most frantic

manner besought horn to have pity upon her, and

restore her to her home ; but he remained unaffected

by her agonized entreaties. He listed her

to her feet, and, in spite of her prayers, her shrieks,

and her bitter tears, he forced her forward ; her

strength in comparison with his was nothing ;

her resistance was, therefore, fruitless. There

was none near to help her, and with this conviction

forced upon her, she resigned herself to despair.

The ruffian enraged at the struggles she had made

discarded completely the little tenderness he had

shewn, and hurried her forward, regardless of the

fainting condition to which fright and agony had

reduced her. He paused not, though he could

tell by the dead weight she hung upon horn that

she had scarcely power to move ; he made towards

a decayed tree, standing iv a lonely spot upon a

piece of waste land, and when he reached it he exclaimed,

with an impatient oath —

Not here ! the foul fiend seize horn ! he promised

to be here, come as early as I might."

And he has kept his word," uttered a man,

advancing from behind the tree. It was Von

Haalst. Agnes shrieked at the sight of him — his

brow lowered, for it was a shriek of horror which

burst from her lips.

What !" he exclaimed bitterly, "am I, who

but now was a welcome guest at thy dwelling,

grown so hideous that a mere glance should throw

thee into convulsions of terror or disgust ? By

the mass ! fair Agnes, I have overrated my perception,

or thou didst appear flattered in no slight degree

when first I paid homage to thee. Has the

champion who saved thee from unknown foes,

wrought so marvellous a change in thee, that no

form but his can find favor in thine eyes ? Thou

dost wish horn here, doubtless, that his wondrous

arm and sword might carve the path to thine home

again. I wish he were here," he added, grinding

his teeth hard together ; " I wish he were here."

Oh ! how devotedly she echoed his wish. She,

however, replied not to his bitter sarcasms, but

by imploring horn to return her to her father; she

appealed to his honor, to his generosity, to every

feeling creditable to human nature, to his hope for

mercy hereafter — but in vain ; he returned lor no

reply to her pleading — to her weeping solicitations ;

he only assisted the ruffian who had brought her

to this spot, to hurry her forward again. Before

they had proceeded far they reached the banks of

the Scheldt, where a boat was moored; Von Haalst

bade his companion, who was the villain Steinhart,

to lift their charge into the boat.

And quickly, too," he added, suddenly, " forby

Satan ! hither comes a knave who has dogged

our steps. Into the boat — 111 stand prepared for

the intruder."

Agnes no sooner heard his remark, than she

shrieked wildly and struggled hard to escape, but

Ones Plots IN THE MILL ON THE BANKS OP THE SCHELDT.

Steinhart seized her by the waist, aud, with the

strength of a giant, he swung her into the boat,

where he held her, saying at the same time, to

Von Flaalst —

You had best enter the boat ; this may be only

some boor, who has eyes for more than his wit

can measure ; at all events it will be better to place

the Scheldt between us ; if he needs must follow,

let horn follow there, wc can deal with horn more

surely than here."

Be it so," replied Von Haalst, leaping into

the boat, and taking Steinhart's place by the side

of Agnes, whom he had gagged, by placing his

huge hand over her mouth. " Push off," he continued,

" and make for the mill as quick as you

can."

Steinhart proved himself nimble at his task ;

the boat was quickly launched into the stream,

and impelled across at a rapid rate. As they

neared the opposite bank, Von Haalst exclaimed,

pointing to the neck of land they had previously

visited —

Pull round the front, and land us on the

other side of the hill. That prying knave is

watching our route," he added, as he saw the

figure of a man standing upon the shore at the

spot where they had embarked. "No matter,"

he muttered, "if he follow us to the mill, wc

shall be far away crc he can reach it."

He kept his eye fixed upon the stranger until

the boat rounded the point and hid horn from his

sight. Schmidt was upon the causeway to receive

them as they landed, and with a servility of

manner, repulsive even to Von Haalst, he ushered

them into the lower apartments of the mill. A

fire was blazing upon the hearth ; a small table,

covered with a clean cloth, upon which materials

for a repast were placed, and of which Agnes was,

without avail, invited to partake, stood in tho

centre of the room. Everything was rude and

homely, but it seemed as if it had been placed in

the best condition possible tor the reception of

some honoured guest. A chair was offered to

Agnes, in which she sank, weeping bitterly. Von

Haalst, something moved by her tears, endeavoured

to assuage them by the most extravagant

promises of future happiness, but was deaf to all

entreaties, to set her at liberty. Finding, after

considerable efforts, that his promises, however

large, aud his eloquence, however sophistical,

produced nothing approaching to resignation in

the mid and manner of Agnes, he turned

moodily from her to Schmidt, and said —

Has Wilhelm made his appearance with the

horses ?"

No," he replied, " but he sent au urchin with

this slip of parchment."

He handed a small scroll as he spoke ; Von

Haalst snatched it from him.

What says he ?" he asked.

I know not," returned Schmidt, " I am unable

to decipher those strange markings — they

are quite beyond my comprehension."

Vou Haalst perused the scroll attentively ; he

knitted his brow and uttered an angry exclamation,

accompanied by an oath.

Am I ever to be thwarted, and by others ?"

he muttered ; " curses upon their pusillanimity !

I will see to this myself. How can I gain Antwerp

in the shortest time ?" he asked of Schmidt.

You had better take the boat, Meinheer," ho

returned, "the stream is flowing fast thither;

Steinhart will soon row thee to the city."

No ; he must remain here in charge of this

maiden — I will go alone. I shall not be long crc

I return ; and look ye both," he added, with considerable

emphasis, " if she escapes, or if during

my absence you treat her with disrespect either

by word, look, or deed, dread my vengeance ; I

have the means of punishing both with a tremendous

fate, and I will not fail to use them if

you give me the cause. For you, fair Agnes,"

he added, speaking in a softer tone, " let me persuade

thee to dry thy tears, they are useless — in

truth, they are dangerous enemies rather than

friends to thee, for they add to thy beauty and

make the temptation to keep thee stronger than

ever ; at the same time, they help to render thee

more miserable than there is occasion for. Listen

to me, aud mark ray words ; weigh them well

while 1 am absent, reflect upon them, and hesitate

not in coming to the only conclusion that is left

to thee. Thought in my power ! I have sworn

a fearful oath that thou shalt be mine, and I'll

keep it, though the deed for which it is taken cast

tiny soul to perdition, and absolution for the oath

to save my soul from sin would be granted mc.

Mine, Agnes Flors, mine shalt thou be, in spite

of all the world could or can do to thwart fine ;

that resolution is irrevocable, e'en though my

mother laid her grey hairs round my feet, weeping

and humbling herself to the dust to change me

from my purpose ; understand that well, aud then

see the necessity of resigning thyself patiently

and willingly to thy fate. Thou that dwell iv

a proud castle, with vassals to bend before thee

at every step thou takcst ; thou shalt have gold to

distribute, jewels to adorn thy person ; thou shalt

be a queen in all but the name — earth shall be

made a paradise to thee, thy every wish anticipated

; happiness shall shower its flood of sunshine

upon thee, be thou but willing and content

to meet it with smiles and a pleased bearing : but

an' thou readiness perverse, by my soul ! I will

make thee a minion of shame for scornful fingers

to point at, until thou shalt groan for the grave

to rid thee of a loathsome existence. Choose thy

fate, one or the other shall be as assuredly thine

as 1 look upon thee. I seek for no reply now,"

he added, hastily, as she was about to speak, " it

will be time for thy answer a week hence, but let

me advise thee ; not I, but thine own perversity,

will be the slayer of thy happiness."

With a brief exclamation to Schmidt and

Steinhart, to remember his admonition, he quitted

the mill, and, entering the boat, was soon swiftly

on his way to Antwerp. Steinhart and Schmidt

exchanged a brief glance when Von Haalst departed.

The latter gave a cunning leer, and the

former a boisterous laugh ; and, without speaking

a word, they seated themselves at the table and

commenced eating with a vivacity which spoke

volumes as to the state of their appetites. They

continued their meal in silence, replenishing their

plates as they emptied them, filling their horns

with wine, draining their contents, to be re-filled

only to be again emptied. Agnes all this time

sat unnoticed, pondering with unspeakable agony

upon Von Haalst's words ; bitter, sealing tears

falling down her cheeks, unrestrained by a

thought which could bring her the smallest consolation.

There was a natural, cold-hearted

sternness in every little act of Von Haalst ; indeed,

in his very look, which forbade her to hope

for the smallest mercy from horn, and she knew

his power and influence too well to expect for

one moment that he would not be able to carry

out his fiendish intentions : her only dependence,

therefore, lay with Horn, whose power is superior

to man's, and devoutly she lifted up her prayers,

that in this, her dreadful strait, he would not

desert her. A thought would occasionally cross

her, that Quintain Matsys, hearing of her disappearance,

might seek her out and rescue her ;

and then that hope — ah ! how sweet a hope —

would fade away before the remembrance of his

apparent indifference.

He may hear of my being horn away, but he

will not move a foot in search of me," she uttered,

in a low desponding voice, unconscious in her

misery that she was speaking aloud. Her words

caught the ear of Steinhart; he laughed and

said —

And if he, whoever he is t does move a foot,

hell be cunning witted to find you, and something

more than that, to get you away when he

has found you."

She made horn no reply ; Schmidt echoed his

sentiment, and then added —

If you will take my advice, gentle Steinhart,

you will not sit in this chamber, but retire

to the small apartment I showed you last night."

"Apartment!" repeated Steinhart, with contempt,

" you mean cell ; that dog-kennel is no

apartment. But why move from here ?I am well

enough here."

Aye ! trn I}-,1 }-, so thou art, as far as thy comfort

is concerned'' replied Steinhart, "but not so with

thy safety ; thy concealment here is not unsuspected,

and that door is to be opened with much

too great ease by those who may be on the

search for you. I think you understand me ?"

Hern ! perhaps I do ; but I hate your sneaking

underhand allusions; out with the worst at

once," cried Steinhart, roughly. " Has any one

been here after me ?"

Not yet," replied Schmidt, in an unruffled

voice, " which is but to tell thee t'ley will not belong

before they pay me a visit. The gentry

you wot of know our relationship ; they know our

attachment to each other, and I shall not pass

unvisited you,may be sure. It is as well to be

prepared for them."

A smile crossed his features as he spoke of his

attachment, it was one of iron coldness ; Stein-hart,

too, smiled, but his was sanguinary and

ruthless, as though he regarded his companion

with the deadliest hatred.

Do as you will with me, dear brother," he

said, in a tone half surly, half contemptuously,

you have the gold and I the sin ; I work boldly,

and you creep and crawl, snail-like, till you crush

your prey. Well, though I hate it, 1 dare say

your way is the best, for I have to hide and seek,

while you can go into open places. Ille en do

your bidding, but this damsel and the bottle

must accompany mc."

"Of course, of course ; the maiden will bo

more secure as well as yourself, for it would be

as bad for the knaves to find her as you," replied

Schmidt.

As if disdaining to speak further with horn,

Steinhart seized the bottle and a glass, and then

said to Agnes —

Now, my white-skinned beauty, you must

come and keep me company in a snug little

chamber ; wc shall be a little closer together, but

there'll be nothing disagreeable in that, at least

to mc.

You remember what Meinheer Von Haalst

said respecting this maiden," exclaimed Schmidt,

suddenly ; " obey it, for as sure as you are my

brother, so sure will he make you have a terrible

remembrance of breaking his command.

I tell you what, Frank," replied Steinhart,

speaking with a sudden wrathful vindictiveness,

I wish I had but the windpipe of this Von

Haalst between my fingers and thumb, I would

crush it till I had squeezed every breath of life

out, I would — I would ; but that's for another

time," he added, changing his tone, "he has

given me cause for this ; ray vengeance shall be assure

as ever his may be, but I wait my time ; he

serves my purpose now. I, too, can be a snake,

brother, but I neither crawl nor creep ; I dart

at once at my object. Now, girl, follow me,"

he concluded, addressing Agnes.

You need not be alarmed, maiden," observed

Schmidt, noticing the reluctance of Agnes to

obey Steinhart's command, " you will be as safe

there as here, and in both places as free from

harm or danger as in your own abode."

Agnes perceived that it would be useless to

resist, she, therefore, followed Steinhart with a

sad step into an adjoining room. As they disappeared,

Schmidt exclaimed through his teeth —

Thou canst be a snake, too ; ha ! well see

whether 'twill be better to scotch or kill the

snake."

He busied himself in clearing the supper table,

and continued muttering promises which did not

augur well for the safety of Steinhart.

The room into which Steinhart led Agnes was

miserably small ; it was not in the body of the

mill, but a sort of outhouse, attached to it. It

was accommodated with one table and one chair,

but no other article of furniture graced it. There

was an open space for a window on one side, but

there was no glass ; the light and fresh air were

admitted together. It was crossed horizontally

by iron bars, to keep out intruders, but the

weather had no let or hindrance for its admission

; it was a cheerless hole, and, independent

of other cause for anguish, struck a horror to the

heart of Agnes as she entered it. Steinhart led

her to the chair, and bade her seat herself. She

obeyed horn mechanically ; he flung himself carelessly

upon the table, and filled himself a bumper

of wine ; he raised it, and surveyed it with the

eye of a connoisseur.

"Aha!" he cried, in a tone of exultation,

here is the maid that always smiles, here is an

eye that ever sparkles and glitters — ho, ho I and

ruby lips, impatient for the kiss, mvrmvr lovingly

on its bubbling surface ; here is the mistress that

never deceives, who is always dressed to receive

her lover with her robe of purple and diamonds.

See how her eye flashes ! look how she quivers

and trembles with joy, impatient to hang on my

lips ! — aha ! sweet mistress mine ! spread thy

dear spirit over my soul as a mantle of delight

to my soul, thou beloved!"

He drained the glass as he spoke, and then

gave it a wild flourish in the air, shouting, in a

gleeful voice—

■ I feel thy presence in my heart — in my

limbs ; it lists my soul to extacy. A bumper to

thee, goddess ! a bumper to thee, thou loved one

without a frown, thou sweet tongue with no

angry word ! Aha ! where is the mistress can

equal thee, beloved ?"

Let horn who adores a sparkling blue eye,

Or the lips of a maiden divine

Who finds dear content in breathing a sigh.

Love such sweets if he list — give me wine !

Wine ! wine ! I worship the goddess of hearts,

In thy liquid my soul I enshrine ;

Like fire through each vein, thy spirit now darts,

And my heart leaps with bliss — oh ! lov'd wine.

Aha !" he continued, in a boisterous tone,

when he had concluded his song, which was

given with no weakness of lungs, " aha ! wine's

the lass that's never coy ; she has no fantastic

tricks, she never sighs and weeps if asked for a

kiss, but her eye glitters and sparkles, and her

bosom heaves with delight, panting to embrace

you."

If thou desires not that all Antwerp should

know thought sojourning here, you will drink your

wine in peace," exclaimed Schmidt, popping his

head into the room ; " there's not a hollow place

in the neighbourhood which is not echoing your

lusty voice ; if you must apostrophise your mistress,

do it in a lower key, unless indeed you

need a military escort to—"

To Satan with thee 1" cried Steinhart, without

lowering his tone, after having emptied

another glassful of wine, " to Satan with thee !

thou croaking frog ; thou blot on our 'scutcheon ;

thou canker in our flower ; thou worm upon a

green leaf; — I hate to look on thee, thou ugly

weed in our garden ! thou ever comest as a

blight. I know whenever I see thy sneaking

pale-faced visage, that I must pray the devil for

help, for there is some cursed disaster sure to

follow thy appearance. Out of my sight ! thou

venom-jawed reptile, or I may forget thought my

brother, and strangle thee." A cold sardonic

grin played on the features of Schmidt during

the time Steinhart. was sputtering his disgust ;

and when the latter had finished, he replied, in a

tone which he knew would make Steinhart's blood

boil in his veins.

This is ever the greeting I receive when I

come to do thee service ; thou dost not appreciate

the love I bear thee ; if my presence heralds disaster,

it is that thy crimes have been the occasion

of whatever may have followed. What I have

done for thee has been out of love for thee, which

thou wouldst acknowledge but that the wine thou

hast swallowed hath heated thy brain, and driven

out thy generosity and thy gentleness."

Away I" roared Steinhart, " or I'll drive thee

out with my dagger, and tumble thee into the

Scheldt for the fishes to feed on ; 'tis all thought

fit for, and, by Lucifer ! I see not why I should

not do it."

There were some points upon which Steinhart

never jested ; this was one. A change passed

over Schmidt features; he appeared to know that

his brother was never more in earnest than at

the present moment ; he, therefore, immediately

retired, muttering after he had closed the door —

Dear brother of mine, if after this affair of

Meinheer Von Haalst's is settled, the officers of

justice fall not in with thee, it shall be no fault

of mine."

Steinhart was much discomposed by the abrupt

entry of his brother — it seemed to have

robbed horn of all his vivacity ; he muttered and

grumbled, he took out his dagger, examined its

point, and gazed as he did so at the door with an

expression which would have horrified any one

less sanguinary than himself to have beheld.

Once or twice he quitted his seat upon the table,

as if with the purpose of carrying out his dreadful

threat, and then changing his mid he returned

to his seat to utter awful imprecations.

He applied to the bottle frequently, until the

fumes of the wine he had swallowed began to

mount rapidly to his brain, and to restore horn to

something like the jovial humour he was in when

interrupted by Schmidt. Once more he addressed

the ruby liquid, sparkling in his glass, with words

of love and adoration, continuing in a more figurative

and poetical strain than it could have been

supposed such a ruffian was capable of; in the

midst of his apostrophizing his eye lighted upon

Agnes, who still sat in an agony of despair, weeping

bitterly ; his brow fell, and, in a rough voice,

he exclaimed —

What, in the fiend's name ! do you set crying

there for ? What would you have, girl ?

there's no pleasing you women unless you happen

to fall in with a fool who suffers ye to have your

own way in everything ; what have you to moan

and snivel for? ain't you going to be made a lady

and the devil knows what, by one who is a

greater fool than you ? Ain't you going to have

your own way in everything but just returning to

Antwerp when you please, and what more do you

want ? Hold up your head, and make the best

of the worst — that's what I do ; send care to

Satan with a curse, and drink to his warm reception

when he arrives. Leave off crying, I tell

you ; here, drink some wine, a bumper will quickly

put sorrow to flight. Where's the use of your

being miserable ? it will not help you here ; besides,

it interferes with my humour, and that

interferes with my comfort, and to interfere with

my comfort is to make me a devil when I feel

inclined to be an angel. Lookup, girl; here's

consolation in this glass — drink, it will cheer

thee, and thou canst fancy me thy lover, and wc

will kiss and be happy. I hate to be mewed up

with a woman unless she be merry and loving ;

dry your tears, and turn your head towards me

with an inviting eye and a smiling face, or by the

sant of salts, St. Lucifer ! I'll tear thy hands

from thine eyes, and make thee rue bitterly thy

unsociable gloominess. Drink, I tell thee ; come

to me and take the glass from my hands, or I

will come to thee after a fashion which may not

prove pleasing to thee."

Agnes heard horn with a terror which almost

deprived her of her senses : she could have

shrieked with anguish ; she felt cold and faint,

and trembled violently. She had not power to

speak or move, save that she turned from the

ruffian with instinctive apprehension that he

would approach her. With what agony of heart

she called upon God to aid her ; with what anxious

earnestness she prayed for help from any

quarter ! Steinhart, when he found he could get

no answer or movement from her, repeated his

request with greater insolence than ever ; in fact,

having fulfilled his craving for wine, and now

taking it more from instinct than absolute relish,

he was able to direct his attention and desires

to other objects. The beauty of Agnes was the

only object in that wretched place to attract his

eyes, and it seemed that she gained fresh charms

by the very wretchedness of the place around. A

woman in tears is always an object of sympathy,

even to the most ruthless, callous as they may

affect to be ; it is one of the quietest creative to

pity existing, and the affinity' generally acknowledged

of pity to love, is sufficient to account for

some such feeling stealing over the mid of

Steinhart, though it made its appearance in the

worst form. He had been so occupied with the

bottle that he had taken little notice of her previously,

but now he feasted his eyes upon her, and

believed devoutly that she was wondrously beautiful,

his surprise, at what he had fancied Von

Haalst's weakness, was fast vanishing; so absorbed

was he in the contemplation of her form, that he

noticed not the head of a man appeared suddenly

at the window, and was as quickly withdrawn, nor

heard a light step behind him. He continued

addressing Agnes in a strain that horrified her ;

he held up the glass and swore she should drink.

Drink !" he cried, " and from the glass to

my lips ; both thou shalt kiss, but which thou

wilt first ; if thou dost not come quickly I will drag

thee to a seat beside me, or I will clasp thee in

my arms where thou art. What, thou wilt not

move ? then I will make thee."

He quitted his seat with an oath, and advanced

towards her. She sprung from her chair, and,

shrieking with terror, retreated to the corner of

the room. He followed ; but crc he could overtake

her, he felt himself seized in a powerful

grasp, and was hurled to the ground before he

could recognise in his sudden assailant Von

Haalst. He struggled violently to gain his feet,

but Von Haalst, with one foot firmly fixed upon

his neck, kept horn down.

Ruffian!" he exclaimed, gnashing his teeth,

"is this the fashion of your obedience ? Did I

not bid thee treat this maiden with all respect,

upon pain of my bitterest displeasure, and have I

not found thee heaping brutal insults upon her ?

Accursed scoundrel ! why should I not crush

out thy villanous breath with my heel, as I would

a viper?"

Steinhart could make no reply, for Von Haalst's

foot pressed upon his throat with a force which

almost strangled horn ; he, however, seized his

ancle, and, by sheer strength, flung Von Haalst

heavily to the ground; both in an instant regained

their feet, and both, overcome with passion,

rushed upon each other, and a deadly struggle

commenced. Their power was nearly equal ;

but Von Haalst, who was perfectly sober, which

was not the case with Steinhart, possessed the

most dexterity, and once more succeeded in dashing

his opponent to the earth with a violence which

shook the mill. At this moment Schmidt entered,

and stood aghast at the scene which was

transpiring ; he, however, soon found a tongue,

and, keeping at a respectable distance from his

brother, exhorted, at the top of his voice, both of

them to recover their temper. He would have

been totally unheeded by Steinhart, had not two

attendants of Von Haalst's, who were armed and

equipped for a journey, entered, and with swords,

drawn at a word from their master, prevented an

opposition which even his almost blind madness

found too much to attack ; he was, therefore,

about to quit the chamber with a mvrmvr of

revenge, when Von Haalst, who, grown a little

cooler, and knowing ho would yet be of service

to horn, stopped horn, saying —

"It is well for you I arrived and overheard

you as I did : had thou proceeded farther in thy

insolence, thy life should have paid forfeit for it ;

as it is, in consideration of thy having indulged

too freely with the wine flask, I forgive thee,

passing over this first disobedience of thine with

no farther punishment than thou hast received ;

but, beware how thou dost break my command a

second time ; it will prove fatal to thee, as surely

as thou livest."

Steinhart heard horn in sullen silence ; he casta

furtive glance at his brother and at the two

attendants, then, folding his arms, he fell back to

the door and leaned against it moodily. Von

Haalst, who had waited for a reply, watched horn

closely, and finding he did not speak, he added —

Attire thyself so that thou may'st not easily

be recognised ; I would have thee accompany me,

I have employment for thee. Thou need'st not

hesitate, here is gold ; and thy brother will tell

thee this is no spot for thee to abide in, for the

hounds of the law have scented thee hither.

Thou dost still hesitate ; well, make thy choice at

once, thou must either attend me, or be sent a

bleeding corse down the Scheldt, for I will not

suffer thee to quit me alive."

"It is not my intention to leave you yet," exclaimed

Steinhart, with an air of indifference,

barely well enough assumed to cover the deadly

hatred lurking beneath it, " I will be with you

crc you have mounted your steed."

He quitted the chamber as he spoke, aud

Von Haalst said instantly to Schmidt —

Follow him — leave horn not an instant ; if he

offer to escape, give me immediate notice."

Schmidt gave a sinister smile, made horn a low

bow, and followed his brother with a step light

enough to be scarcely heard. Von Haalst then

turned to Agnes, and, approaching her, attempted

to take her hand, but she shrunk from horn with

horror and disgust. He curbed the rage he felt

at this plain display of her dislike to horn, and,

affecting a light careless tone, he exclaimed —

Well, as you please, I will not press you now

to look upon me with a kind glance. You think

me your enemy, because I take the only path

open to me to make you mine ; you will alter

your opinion yet. When you are mine, yon will

find my presence more desirable; you will welcome

my approach; you will see me leave thee

with regret. You think this impossible, I know

the world and human nature better ; once mine,

every feeling you have will be changed, every tie

you now possess dissolved — I shall be all and

everything to you ; deserted by me, you will bo

deserted by all the world ; the knowledge of that

one fact alone will bind thee closer to me than any

of the frail easily-snapped bonds of affection that

I know, and I am willing to wait until thought

compelled to love me, not caring how 'tis accomplished,

so that it is brought to pass. I have

brought thee garments for travel, they will keep

thee from the cold as well as from prying eyes ;

don them, and if you please quickly, for I would

Depart at one — wc have far to ride to-night ; the

dawn must see us many miles from Antwerp."

Spare me !" cried Agnes, falling at his feet,

in a passionate torrent of tears, " spare me ! oh,

tear me not away ! I implore you by all that is

sacred to humanity, crush me not utterly forever

— "

It is in vain you plead, Agnes," he exclaimed,

listing her by force from her supplicating posture,

"to such a prayer I am stone ; the hardest marble

is not so impenetrable as my heart to your supplications

to be restored to your father : you are

in my power, you shall be mine, nor heaven nor

hell shall stand between thee and me !" he continued

excitedly.

He wrapped a cloak and hood round her in spite

of the struggles, which, in a state of distraction, she

made, and lifting her in his arms, for she refused

to move, he carried her, shrieking, to the outside

of the mill, where five horses were in waiting.

He raised her to the back of one and placed her

upon it ; the steed, alarmed by her cries and struggles,

reared and plunged wildly, and it was not

until he was assisted by both his followers that he

could succeed in seating her, and then he found

she had fainted. With an imprecation he lifted

her down, and, giving her into the arms of one

of tho men, he leaped on to the back of his own

steed and had her placed before hir n; he called

loudly for Steinhart, who made his appearance in

answer to the summons. He mounted the steed

appropriated to his use, followed by the two attendants,

who leaped into their saddles, and then,

with a few words from Von Haalst to Schmidt,

they set forward at a swift trot. Schmidt watched

them until they had advanced some distance, and

then he said with a pleasant smile —

Two snakes in one family will never do ; one

sun, one moon, one earth, and but one snake."

He entered the mill as he concluded, and closed

the door carefully. He had hardly disappeared,

when a man, the same who had gazed through the

window, rose from a small bush, which grew close

to the mill, and exclaimed —

"It is horn I no two men ever lived with that

face. I see the path chosen : there are more swift

steeds than those ye ride, Meinherrs, and stout

fellows to mount them ; a single hand against five

would have availed little ; besides, discretion will

gain more than fool-hardiness, or I would have

known a little more of the roguery going forward;

however, Ruprecht, Steinhart, or whatever thought

called, I'll have thee crc long, and know something

too of the knaves who companion thee, or

my reputation shall willingly slip through my

fingers."

He darted off as he concluded with a surprising

swiftness, and was soon lost in the gloom of the

night.

BARON HAINAULT, Adolf, AND HIS PAGE MAXIMILIAN.

CHAP. XI.

r'-$a O an apartment in a castle, on the banks of

M the Rhine, does our tale now carry us. In

X[l the recess forming the window, was seated

"* a young man of noble bearing, of exceedingly

handsome features, and a figure which

,might have been a model for a sculptor. He

Appeared deeply in thought; his arms were folded

upon his breast, and the expression of his countenance

was sufficient to denote that his thoughts

»crc sad. The caresses of a favourite hound

were unheeded ; in fact, he seemed to have given

himself entirely up to melancholy abstraction.

[opposite to him sar a boy, in the attire of a page,

>r rather squire, whose face was so soft and fern-erne,

that at the first glance he might have been

taken for a girl. His eyes were fixed upon

he cavalier with an expression which was one of

arrow, to observe the gloom in which his lord

ras enshrouded ; and close to the window, which

ras open, stood an elderly man, who, with a

and shrouding the sunlight from his eyes, completed

with earnestness some object in the

grantly, which presented a prospect for miles,

i dead silence reigned for a short time, which

was broken, by the latter person exclaiming —

■ My eyes do not deceive me, it is a horseman

approaching ; he looks as though some matters of

importance direct horn hitherward, judging by the

witness of his pace. Can it be a messenger toc.

Adolf, think ye?"

He received no answer to his remark, and rented

it several times, crc he turned to see the

mise of his remaining without a reply. He

Lied for a moment on the thoughtful countenance

of the young cavalier, and then advancing

step towards horn, he tapped horn gently on the

older, saying —

■ What mysterious fiend hangs on thy spirit,

Ms. Pressing down thy brow, and absorbing

r faculties of eye, ear, and speech ?"

.Adolf* started from his reverie, and gazed wildly

hia interrogator, until he repeated his quest*,

and then he replied, with a sad smile —

• \'av, 'tis nothing — a few foolish thoughts of

rnouMSDt ; I pray you pardon my lack of

rt-ssy, Baron, you shall not again find me so

A. * *

rot.

Thou hast said as much at least twenty times,"

hed the Baron, smiling, " and have as instantly

i into thy fit of musing ; lam unwilling

\ trade upon thy private thoughts," he added,

ting » graver tone, " but I like not to see thy

- t hus clouded, thy once gay smile banished

from thy check, and thy free spirit with a ban

upon it, like an evil spell ; thou wert not thus a

few short months since. Why, thou wert my

pride; thine eye was as bright as thy steel breastplate,

thy laugh as merry as the note of a bird ;

and now thou dost mew and pine like a dove that

has lost its mate. What hath caused this change?

thy steed is never from his stable, and thy groom

tells me, unless thou dost give horn the fresh air

he languishes for, he will soon be unfit to bear

thee. Thou indulgent in no sports, and yet wert

ever the first to mix in them ; thy hound too is

not even favoured with a look ; and when, until

now, did he remain cheered by thy voice and

smile ? I cannot attribute any act of evil or dishonour

to thee. I should know of a heavy grief,

if it had fallen upon thee, yet I am i' the dark

respecting this melancholy of thine. Maximilian

too, poor lad, looks as though thou hast chided

horn sternly for some boys fault, and wanders

from chamber to chamber like a restless sprite.

By the mass ! Adolf, I myself feel that this heavy

bearing of thine hath wrought some change in me;

1 have had hard work to shake off unpleasant

thoughts from creeping o'er me, as I miss thy

merry laugh and lively voice. Treat me as a

friend ; dost thou not think me one ?"

Adolf took his hand and pressed it warmly.

Well — well !" continued the Baron, with a

gratified air, " and so I am — I am. Well then,

let me know what it is that preys thus upon thy

mid ; I may counsel thee so as to clear it from

thy brain, as the fresh wind clears the mist from

the mountain. Nay I never shake thy head despondingly,

thou hast followed my advice for many

years, and never I think found it bring thee harm,

why not trust it now ?"

Because, dear uncle, I need it not," returned

Adolf; " I mean not to deny that I am sad and

thoughtful — it has been too evident ; but my

strange demeanor hath not arisen from any evil,

dishonourable, or thoughtless act of mine, nor is

it the consequence of any deed of such a nature as

I have described ; no counsel can clear it from the

gloom which surrounds it, and merely to tell thee,

without affording relief to me, or removing care

or pain from thee, would be, to my thinking,

an act of reprehensible weakness. Question meno

farther, dear uncle ; I will endeavour to throw

off this heaviness, and appear as I did of old : rest

satisfied this affair concerns myself only, and

compromises no one, unless I permit it to pass

from my own breast to thine or others."

As thou wilt, Adolf," returned the baron,

gravely ; " I seek not for confidence thou canst

not bestow with a satisfaction that thought acting

justly to others os well as to thyself; let me but

see thee restored to cheerfulness, and I will not

ask thee at any time why thou wert dull."

Thanks, dear uncle ; it shall not be for want

of a hearty will that I am not as cheerful to thy

sight as I have ever been."

And in thy heart, too, I hope," rejoined the

baron.

I hope so too," exclaimed the page. "I had

rather see thee as thou art, than have a gay bearing

with a heavy heart."

"tis a kind hope, boy," returned Adolf;

may'st thou have thy wish, for then," he muttered,

in an under tone, " I shall have mine."

Hark !" interrupted the baron, the winding of

a horn breaking the stillness of the air, " it is the

warders horn, the horseman has arrived. What

can be his purpose I wonder ?"

That shall wc soon know," replied Adolf,

assuming a cheerful air ; " Walters speed in conveying

news is proverbial. So thou dost wander

through the castle like a sprite, Maximilian," he

continued, addressing the youth, " because my

visage shines not upon thee so much as it did.

Why, boy, thou hast been so much in the society

of the gentle dames, that they have almost made

thee a woman, for none but women would wander

thus sadly because it pleased another to wear a

thoughtful countenance'*

And if a knight thinks it not womanish to

mope, may not a page be guilty of the like act,

without question to his manliness ?" returned the

page, readily.

A fair hit, Adolf," cried the baron, laughing.

"And duly acknowledged," replied his nephew.

A hurried step was heard along the corridor,

and presently a loud knock was given at the door ;

it was immediately opened, and a servitor made

his appearance.

Well, Walter, the news," cried the baron,

quickly.

A messenger, my lord baron, for you — one

who has travelled swiftly, and is way-worn, a fair

man I should take it for service of importance,

and, judging by his dusty garments, his haggard

features, and his reeking steed, he has not sought

you because my lady page scoffed at your

henchman."

Let me see horn, Walter," observed the

baron, smiling at the man's loquacity.

He is at my heels, my lord baron," returned

the man. " Your errand, good fellow, I said to

horn as he dismounted ; to see the baron Hainault,

said he. Your duty with horn, said I ; his and my

business, replied he. You would see horn quickly,

said I ; upon the instant, said he. Follow me,

said I, and here he is, my lord, in the corridor."

Shew horn in at once," cried the baron, " and

spare thy speech for thy comrades in the hall, knave."

Your lordship's knave is ever desirous of

doing your lordship's bidding," returned the man,

bowing himself out of the room.

He had need," muttered the baron, with i

smile, " unless his lordship's knave is a candidate

for cropped ears. Ha ! Freiderich," he ejaculated,

starting as the man entered, " they must to

pressing matters indeed to bring you hither''

I believe, my lord, your conjecture is a Ira

one," replied the man, with a respectful obeisance*.

Our seneschal, my lord, placed this packet ii

my hand, and said, whip and spur, good Frederick,

nor bed nor board, save what thou canst

swallow in thy saddle, until thou dost deliver to

packet to thy lord. I have used good diligent

my lord," concluded he, as he placed the pared

in the barons hand.

"I do believe it," returned the noble, "reappearance

is good evidence of the truth of lar

assertion."

I have not yet completed my errand," M

tinned Freiderich, after thanking the baron, "to*

is a ring, which a few days since a youth, H

siring earnestly to see you, left with the seneschal

he was very importunate, and would scarcely beds

need — indeed, it was with difficulty he could b

induced to believe you were not in Antwerp."

The baron took the ring, and, giving a gI"M

at it, exclaimed instantly —

Why this ring belongs to my fair neioe, h*

came he possessed of it ? Lest he no message 3

He said, my lord," replied Freiderich, " tl"

the owner of that ring required your impetus

presence, on a pressing emergency."

"Poor Meta," ejaculated the baron, u m

new strait has thy father's caprices now plash

thee in ?"

Adolf, who had again grown thoughtful, and I

a listless auditor to the foregoing colloquy.

sooner heard the name of Meta mentioned, t

he sprang to his feet, and, with an .opera*

which rather surprised the baron, requested

know what had occurred.

Why this sudden alacrity ?" exclaimed

baron, eyeing the young knight attentively,

causing by this question a crimson flush to >p*

itself over his features, " Why dost thou so eag

question me on this matter ?"

For little, save that I am weary of **•'»'

my hours so idly as I have done of late, au-shew

thee, dear uncle, that I am still despoil

proving to thee my anxiety to bo as I was

of old in thy presence."

To say nothing of thy desire to be of *i

ance to thy fair cousin," observed the baron,

a smile."

Adolf reddened like scarlet.

My duty, as a true knight, makes the service

of any oppressed maiden imperative," he replied,

"but I should naturally feel a double pleasure in

proving of service to my fair cousin did circumstances

require it."

■ Thy duty and thy disinterestedness are not

to be doubted," returned the baron with a sly

smile, and then added, a3 he observed .\dolfs

heightened coloring a kind tone," Ah! bymyfaith,

when as young as thee, and with no little of thy

spirit, I found the duty which made me the protector

of fair damsels so marvellously pleasing,

as to outstrip all others. Duty, quotha! it was a

delight ; a sigh, and a piteous glance from a sweet-faced

maiden, pierced my heart with deeper

certainty than any lance foeman could poise

against me ; their soft words and gentle bearing

melted my soul, and made me — a-hem — I'll not

say what they termed me ; but, believe me, Adolf,

no maiden within some leagues of my abiding

place, be it where it might, hesitated to seek me

if oppressed, and beg my aid, which I can say,

with a clear heart, was never denied to them.

Thou hast something of my blood in thy veins,

much of my enthusiasm in thy spirit ; thou hast a

ready hand with a spear or sword, and a bold

heart for any danger ; can I not, therefore, well

believe that thy feeling of duty will be even less

than thy pleasure at serving one so fair as thy

gentle cousin. Nay, thou needs not let thy

blood mantle thy cheek with its crimson hue ; the

bravest knight that ever set spear in rest has

been proud to acknowledge his readiness to do

battle in favour of those who are as weak as

fair."

Adolf replied only by an inclination of the head.

Baron Hainault was sharp, yet short sighted ; he

observed the anxiety of his nephew to assist the

fair Meta in distress, but did not look further and

discover that the anxiety was greater to serve

Meta than any Other damsel existing ; he was satisfied

with the effects of his banter, and turned to

peruse the packet he had received from Freiderich.

He perused but few lines crc his smile vanished,

and his whole demeanour changed. He started,

and an exclamation escaped his lips ; he read rapidly

on, until he had finished its contents, and

then turned to his nephew, with the air of one who

bad received some startling intelligence.

"By my faith, Adolf !" he exclaimed, " here is

news indeed, here is employment carved out for thee

which will make thee doff thy mantle of lethargy

for the surcoat of activity. No more wandering

for thee, young squire Maximilian, through the debited

chambers and galleries, seeking for thy

good lords sprightliness, but bring out his armour

from his lurking place, and help horn to don it.

Buckle on his sword and his spurs, and hey ! for

the back of his good steed Hnordgestirn."

Your words, my lord baron, are like the sound

of a trumpet on my heart," cried Maximilian,

with a burst of joy ; " let the news be what it will,

I owe it a glad thank."

What is the news ?" enquired Adolf, with

some anxiety of countenance.

"Thou shalt know all anon," returned baron

Hainault ; " but thus much I may tell thee now ;

the people are rising throughout Flanders, with

the intent of flinging off the yoke of their liege

lords ; they have had the heel too long upon their

necks ; they mean to shake it off."

There has been no out-break yet?" observed

Adolf, interrogatively.

Not yet," replied his uncle, "but although

the surface is smooth, there is an under current

which is bubbling and boiling, and will soon rise

up foaming to view. Spies, who have been everywhere

among the people have discovered all, or

nearly all, and extensive preparations are being

made, silently, to encounter the rising as soon as

it displays itself. There will be much wrong and

oppression on both sides, and if wc hold ourselves

neutral, which at present it is my purpose to do,

there will still be occasion and opportunity to

stretch forth a succouring hand to those who may

need protection."

When do you quit these walls ?" enquired

Adolf, eagerly.

Without one moments delay," replied the baron.

" I will but arm myself; do thou likewise,

and wc will set forth on the instant. Freiderich,

thou canst refresh and rest thyself, and follow us

to Antwerp tomorrow, or the next day."

So please you, my lord, I will accompany

you," returned Freiderich, " I have sat in a saddle

without distress for weeks together; I will but

snatch a hasty repast, and shall be as good a man,

perhaps better, than when basking idly in A antwerp."

"As you list, but be speedy ;" said the baron,

and as Freiderich quitted the apartment, he

added, " send Walter hither." The man made

his obeisance, and departed. " Now, Adolf, to

thy chamber and harness thyself; in half an hour

from this time," concluded the baron, " wc must

quit the castle."

"As quickly as you please, dear uncle, you will

find me ready to attend thee," replied Adolf, shaking

hands with the baron, and then departed attended

by Maximilian.

Within the prescribed time, they might have been

perceived issuing from the castle to the court-yard,

where their steeds were waiting impatiently to receive

them ; a dozen stout troopers, also well

armed, were mounted ready to accompany them,

and Freiderich might have been seen in the midst

of there, wearing an air of mysterious importance,

which his fellows would fain have unravelled, but

that having little to communicate he was wise

enough not to be tempted to say anything. Adolf

leaped on the back of his steed with an ease and

grace which showed horn to be an accomplished

horseman : he was followed by his uncle at a more

sober pace, while Maximilian, who was full of glee

at the change in his young lords demeanor, skipped

off, aster holding the stirrup for Adolf, to a slight,

high-blooded steed in the charge of a trooper, and

with one spring vaulted into the saddle. The seneschal

with several domestics attended the baron

to the outer entrance of the great hall, and as the

latter departed he said —

Commend rae to thy lord : tell horn, like horn

have I been summoned unexpectedly from the

castle on matters of importance which would not

suffer me to wait his return; present to horn

mine and nephew's hearty thanks for the hospitality

wc have received, and, in conclusion, say I

wait with impatience the pleasure of returning it

when he does me the honor of a visit to Antwerp."

The seneschal bowed low and replied —

My lord shall not fail to be possessed of thy

words."

The baron now gave the order to advance, and

the little cavalcade set forward; the castle gates

were passed, the drawbridge crossed, and the open

country lay before them. The castle at which the

baron Hainault and his nephew had been sojourning

was situated, like most castles in Germany,

upon an elevation something more than a high hill,

and yet scarcely to be dignified with the name of

mountain. Still the view was extensive and very

delightful ; the distant country was flat, but beautifully

diversified with wood and plain ; the Rhine,

like a waving band of silver lace, wound sinuously

through the land, edged on one side with woody

eminences ; and far away where the eye was limited

to the line of horizon rose a chain of blue

hills, looking more picturesque for their unevenness

than if they had been one regular undulating

line. The sun was fast setting, and the air was

remarkably clear ; each distant town, and there

were many, was plainly visible, with its clustering

undefinable houses, and the tall spire of its cathedral,

which rosse as a land-mark from the surrounding

mass. The early period of the year prevented

that display of green and gold, which, in summer,

gladdens the heart, and lifts the spirit with silent

enthusiasm ; but there was yet diversity of color

and extent of prospect, to make the view very

lovely in both.

Baron Hainault and his nephew had gazed on

the prospect they were now observing many times,

yet there was that extraordinary beauty in it,

which made it ever new. They rode on, absorbed

in its contemplation, for some distance, until

Adolf, by a chain of associations, sunk into one of

his deep reveries, which the baron did not discover,

until he had uttered one question five several

times, without receiving a reply ; at length, raising

his voice to something like a shout, he attracted

his nephew's attention ; and had the gratifying

satisfaction of finding, that a number of edifying

remarks, which he had made upon human life and

human conduct, which the scenery around had

given birth to, had been poured into an unheeding

ear. At length he contrived to make his nephew

understand that he proposed resting for the night

at a hostel which they were fast approaching, and

received his ready acquiescence to his plan, as, indeed,

he seemed to care little whether he rested

anywhere or proceeded. The sun had descended

behind the distant hills crc the hostel was gained,

and the cold night air swept sharply past them,

making the very sight of the house shed an air of

comfort the moment it was visible. The host was

at his gate to receive his new visitors, yet not with

the air of one receiving a benefit, but of one conferring

it ; he bowed to the salute of the baron, if

bow it could be called, and when he observed his

guests were alighted, he led the way to the interior

of the hostel. He threw open the door of a room,

where blazed a large fire, round which were seated

three or four men in half military, half civilian

garb. They were armed with pistols and swords,

and there was an air of reckless freedom in their

manner, which spoke more of presumption than

courtesy. They were laughing loudly, as the

baron and his nephew entered ; they neither

checked their laughter, nor removed their hats

from their heads, in reply to the salvation they

received, but stared rudely, nor turned away their

eyes until they read in the features of the baron

and Adolf that it would not be perhaps advisable

to continue their impertinent survey. An insolent

exclamation, respecting the new corners, passed

from the lips of one fellow to a companion, and all

laughed ; the brow of Adolf crimsoned, and his

hand, instinctively, sought his sword's hilt, but

the baron grasped his arm quietly, yet firmly, and

motioned horn to take no notice of it. He ordered

some wine, and seated himself to discuss it, talking

frankly with his nephew without appearing to

know, or care, whether any one was present beside

himself and Adolf. This course of conduct had its

effect, for when the fellows observed themselves

and their rudeness unheeded, they returned to the

topic they were commenting upon, when they were

interrupted by the entrance of two new guests.

Matters went on smoothly enough, albeit many

saucy remarks were uttered, which galled Adolf,

but which raised a smile only, on the face of the

baron, until a swashing, fierce looking fellow, with

long mustachios, clanking spurs, and sword, entered.

He was greeted with a loud welcome by

the men who were seated in front of the fire, who,

however, moved not an inch for horn to find a

place among them. All the chairs were occupied.

Maximilian, who had returned from the stable,

where he had seen Adolf and the barons horses

properly attended, occupied the only one which

was vacant when he entered. The fellow with

the long mustachios, the blueness of whose nose,

and a certain quivering of the frame told he was

villainously cold, cast his eyes round the apartment

and uttered an oath at the scantiness with

which it was furnished. To have asked the landlord

for another chair was to have asked what he

knew would not be granted ; he therefore looked

around to see whom he should displace. He would

not be discourteous to his friends — to have attempted

to oust the baron or his nephew would

have been like an effort to capture a porcupine

with the naked hand, so he suffered his eye to rest

for a moment upon Maximilian ; he gave an extra

twist to his mustachios, pursed up his features

until they screwed, not expanded, into a grim

smile, growled an oath, and, stalking to horn, sized

horn by the ear, swung horn without ceremony out

of the chair with such violence that the boy was

saved only from falling by being dashed against

the wall of the apartment, lifted the chair from its

place and, setting it down with a loud stamp by

the fire-place, seated himself in it and was applauded

by a shout of laughter from his friends.

Both the baron and Adolf sprung to their feet at

this insult, but Adolf, laying his hand upon the

barons arm, said in a low voice —

The page is mine, dear uncle — the quarrel is

also mine ; leave me to avenge it."

He walked deliberately as he spoke to the new

possessor of the chair, and before the fellow — who

with a doubtful expression of bravado sat awaiting

his approach— expected the act, he seized horn

by the neck-piece with both hands, and with a

powerful exertion of strength he lifted horn out of

the chair and hurled horn with tremendous force into

the arms of one of his friends. The violence with

which he was propelled caused both horn and the

fellow who received horn to fall prostrate on the

floor. Adolf drew his sword and quietly awaited

the issue. The man with the long mustachios

gathered himself up as quickly as possible and,

calling on his friends to assist horn, unsheathed his

sword and with a long string of oaths, yelled

forth as the Indian's war-cry — more for the pnr-

I pose of frightening the adversary than for aught

else — prepared to attack the young knight, who

with a cool, contemptuous smile, stood expecting

him. The friends of this ruffian were not backward

to his call upon their swords, for they made

their appearance in glittering array ; and as the

chances seemed so beautifully on their side, they

hesitated not to make an instant attack. The baron

immediately came to his nephew's assistance,

and Maximilian, boy as he was, drew his sword,

with which as a squire he was armed, and burning

with rage at the indignity as well as injury he had

received mixed in the fray with all the ardor of a

knight doing battle for his lady-love.

As the opponents of the minority deemed bluster

an important ally and aid to victory, they

shouted with lusty lungs ; and, as neither Adolf

nor the baron used their weapons with light-mindedness,

the noise and clatter of swords made

a fearful uproar. The door quickly flew open,

Friederich made his appearance, and on the instant

he beheld his lord in action mingled in the fray

without question of its cause ; he was followed by

the landlord, and then the barons retainers came

running in and quickly ended the contest ; for the

knaves, who were ready enough to commence a

combat when five to two, were equally eager to

discontinue it when the odds reversed. They

cried for quarter with willing throats, and as two

were severely wounded, the fellow who had caused

the fray having a tremendous gash in the sword

arm, it was granted to them. The whole of the

retainers were now present, and the baron turning

to Freiderich exclaimed, as he sheathed his

sword —

Expel these rogues from the hostel, and whip

them out of sight of it if they use not their legs

nimbly in leaving it behind them."

With a willing air Freiderich obeyed horn, and,

in spite of remonstrances or struggles, they were

thrust forth. One fellow contrived to break

away, and, returning to the baron, shook his fist

menacingly at horn, and said —

The cord of the Fehm Gerichte shall reach

thee crc thought many hours older."

He disappeared as he spoke, and a shudder

ran through those who heard horn, and knew the

terrible certainty with which the members of that

awful secret tribunal executed its threats. The

baron, however, smiled sternly it is true, but

there was no trace either of fear or apprehension

at the remark ; he merely exclaimed to Freiderich,

who had overheard the speech, and stood hesitating

—

See that my orders are obeyed ;" and, turning

to the landlord, said, " set our supper before

us, and usher us no more among such guests as

those who have just departed; I have a fancy for

taking my meals in peace."

I make not the guests who come to my

house," returned the man, bluntly ; " neither can

I give my best room to one and a loft to another ;

all who come must fare alike, gentle or simple,

or remain without ; I am not different to my

brethren — a hostel is a hostel, and a guest a

guest — nobles who like not their customs should

not visit them."

"Nor should wc, Impertinent," returned the

baron, "but as a matter of convenience."

I know it," returned the man, " and you must

be glad to take what you can find ; but eat what

you have to eat quickly, and take my advice,

which, if like my manner be blunt, is at least

honest : quit this spot as soon as you have satisfied

your appetite, and ride as far as may be to-night."

Why ?" asked the baron, with surprise.

Because I desire not my beds and floors and

wainscot to be dabbled with blood. You stare —

I fear not the hand of the terrible Fehm Gerichte

will reach you, but the hands of those who will be

turned against you will be no less deadly: those

men you ordered to be scourged from hence, are.

Part of a gang more famed for forest deeds of

rapine and murder than acts of justice. They

will return in the night with numbers far exceeding

thine — you may guess what will follow.

They come hither freely because I still wish to

live the time God has allotted me, and I cannot

prevent them without hazarding a slit throat ; I

should not be so free in giving a description, but

I know with whom I have to deal," and here he

made a sign which the baron alone observed and

understood, " and am desirous to do my duty, by

giving warning of the approach of danger."

I excuse your want of courtesy for your

honesty," returned the baron ; " wc will sup immediately,

and then follow thy counsel."

The man hastily retired and proceeded to make

enquiry of Maximilian whether the rough usage

of the fellow who had flung horn from the chair

had caused horn any hurt. The youth replied in

the negative, confessing to have been more hurt

in spirit than in body : he was commended for his

gallantry, but warned of rashness, and, with something

of a proud air at having proved his sword

of use as well as ornament, departed to see the steeds

prepared for a further journey that night. The

supper was quickly despatched, and once more

the horses were mounted, and the cavalcade

moved forward in a direction which the landlord

had pointed out for there as the safest from molestation.

They followed it, not so much from

any fear the baron had to encounter the robbers

likely to intercept horn, but from a prudent motive :

he had matters of importance to transact which

would not brook delay ; he, therefore, declined

meeting a band of rascals, probably thrice his



THE RESCUE OF AGNES Flora

I number, for the mere sake of scorning to deviate

1 from his path because t hey might happen to be in it,

and possibly disable horn from performing the

matter he was anxious to accomplish. The landlord

of the hostel they had quitted had not deceived

them ; the path they had pursued was uninterrupted

by the appearance of aught, save a solitary

owl or wheeling bat, and before the sky had

changed its hue to herald the approach of the dawn,

they had passed over from fifteen to twenty

miles ; they stopped at au inn to which their late

host had directed them, and, obtaining the rest

and refreshment they required, they started forward

late next afternoon to prosecute their journey.

As their way lay through the country bordering

the Rhine, the journey possessed in itself sufi

ancient interest, by its picturesque scenery, to make

the distance appear less and the time pass pleasantly.

As they passed an old castle, which stood

upon one of the numerous hills which abound in

i Germany, the Baron pointed it out, and told

I Adolf a singularly wild and fearful history of one

of the ancestors of its present possessor ; and had

arrived at a part where the interest was intense,

when they overtook a man mounted on a jaded

steed ; he was covered with dust, looked pale and

fagged, from great exertion, while the horse could

scarcely bear his weight or drag one weary leg

after the other. He had evidently waited their

approach with much anxiety, for crc they had

reached horn he called out — ■

Help, in our Lady's name ! help, in the name

of God ! help, in the name of the emperor

Freiderich !"

Help for what, for whom ?" exclaimed Adolf,

riding up to horn, followed closely by the baron,

who repeated Adolf enquiry.

Help, for the oppressed ! help, as you are a

true knight, whose vow bids you to succour the

helpless and oppressed," shouted the man, loudly

and eagerly.

Less brawling, knave, and more matter in thy

speech," cried the baron, impatiently; "make thyself

understood, if thou dost need instant help."

You observe yon road winding up tho hill to the

lest," he replied, " there ate four knaves hurrying

away by force and violence a maiden, who's I deem

it of gentle birth, and one of the villains hath done

murder, for which the law requires his death. I

have followed them day and night from Antwerp,

have hung upon their skirts like a leech, but fresh

steeds have enabled them at last to defeat mc."

Which path took they ?" cried Adolf, excitedly,

associating at once the maiden of gentle

birth with his lady love, and taking a shorter

grasp of his rein to prepare for a sudden and swift

pursuit.

Lend me the steed of one of thy retainers, and

I will shew thee," replied the man, dismounting

quickly, " I am not so tired but 1 can ride a dozen

miles yet at full speed, to capture the knaves and

stop their villany."

"Give horn thy steed'' Conrad," cried Adolf,

addressing a trooper bestriding a strong steed.

The change was quickly effected, and clapping

spurs to the horse, which answered it with a bound,

he darted off, attended by Adolf, and followed

closely by the baron and the retainers. The road

was quickly gained, and as soon as a few of the

turns were passed, it stretched with a straight level

way, extending some considerable length ; and

evidence of the truth of the man's tale displayed

itself by the appearance of five riders traversing

the road some distance before them, the white

garments of a female being plainly visible, fluttering

on the back of one of the steeds.

There they are, there they are 1" shouted

Adolfss companion, digging spurs into his steed

and urging horn forward. " Whip and spur I whip

and spurt"

Adolf needed no incitement ; he gave Nordgestirn

the reign and uttered a few words of inspiriting

encouragement to horn; the noble beast shook his

mane proudly, uttered aloud neigh, and darted forward

like an arrow from a bow, leaving his companion

behind speedily. The attention of those whom

he was chasing was soon drawn towards horn,

and with the natural suspicion attached to guilt,

the nature and the purpose of the chase was quickly

guessed. Von Haalst, for it was his party, uttered

an anathema and bade Agnes urge her steed forward.

She, however, gathered from the few words

which burst from the lips of her oppressor and the

people with horn that something like help was near,

and, though fatigued and weak from grief, she

summoned courage, and did the best she could to

rein horn in, and succeeded in checking him. Von

Haalst as soon as he observed her act, uttered

the wildest curses, lashed and spurred his own

horse into a furious gallop, and leaning forward

seized the reins from Agnes's hand : he

speedily made her steed fly as swiftly as his own ;

his two attendants, as well as Steinhart, urged forward

their horses also, and galloped swiftly on.

They all dashed along at a tremendous rate ; the

dust flew up in clouds, the horses snorted, and

Agnes, though strapped to her saddle, was compelled

to cling to the pummel to keep her scat.

Still she contrived to wave her hand appealingly

to her pursuers, unloosed her head dress, and suffered

it to escape, that it might be seen by those

who followed, a maiden who needed their aid. She

shrieked too, that it might be known she fled not

willingly ; she uttered a prayer of thanksgiving

that a prospect of deliverance was open to her,

aud persevered, despite all Von Haalst's threats, todo

everything which could induce those in pursuit

to continue. Swiftly as their steeds bore them,

still they saw one steed, separated from all the

others, gaining upon them at every stride. Still

Von Haalst, anxiously as he gazed and gazing

cursed, found the distance between horn and the

pursuer diminishing ; in vain he spurred, in vain

he lashed, and by voice and by gesture strove to

increase the speed of the horses — they were at the

very top of their speed, and yet that one rider

gained upon them ; a single rider would have

caused no alarm or care in the breast of Von

Haalst ; it was that he saw the pursuer was a

knight and in complete armour, that behind horn

galloped a fellow whom for some days he had seen

at intervals following in his track, but who, being

alone and exhibiting no peculiarity of conduct, he

had attached no importance to his occasional appearance.

And the rear was brought up by a large

party of men, evidently retainers of a noble. If

overtaken, he knew .Agnes must be rescued from

horn ; and to retain her in his possession he determined

to hazard everything, even life itself ; his

castle was not far distant — nay, almost in sight ;

could he but reach it, so as to summon his vassals,

he would contest the matter with the odds on his

side ; but he had yet to reach it, and to the accomplishment

of that object were all his energies turned ;

did either of the steeds display a lack of speed, he

uttered fearful curses, and spurred the horses until

their sides ran with blood. Still came the armed

knight nearer and nearer. The pace at which

his steed bore horn was extraordinary ; he seemed

absolutely to fly, and yet the noble beast appeared

to accomplish it with ease ; a few minutes

more and it was evident that he would overtake

them.

Steinhart !" roared Von Haalst, " draw thy

pistol and shoot this meddlesome fool through the

head ; take thy aim steadily, and see thou dost not

miss him."

Steinhart replied gruffly, and drew his pistol

from his belt ; another minute, and Adolf was side

by side with Von Holstein

in thy steed, villain," he shouted, "or I

cleave thee to the saddle."

Von Haalst still held on his pace and shouted

for Steinhart to fire, and the ruffian drew the

trigger, but it snapped without exploding ; and

Adolf, with a vigorous wrist, seized the bridle of

Von Haalst's steed, and urging Nordgestirn across

his path succeeded in completely turning them.

Von Haalst, with an oath, drew his sword and

made a cut at Adolf, which he escaped by jerking

his body aside, and returned the blow with a

strength which made Von Haalst's steel tremble

as it rung loudly.

Traitor to all that is honorable ! Base villain !

cease thy opposition and deliver up the maiden,

or by'r lady J thou shalt not live to do another

base deed," cried Adolf, in tones which rose high

above the clatter of their swords and rearing

steeds.

Thou shalt purchase her with thy life," roared

Von Haalst ; " Steinhart, villain, fire ! if thou

wouldst not have me plunge my weapon through

thy heart."

Once again Steinhart presented his pistol, but

this time it was directed at Von Haalst, and again

his fell intention was defeated ; it missed fire, and

following the example of Von Haalst's attendants,

he galloped away, leaving bis worthy employer to

extricate himself from the difficulty as he best

might. Though thus lest alone, Von Haalst resigned

not his hold of the bridle of Agnes nor

shrunk from encountering the weapon of Adolf;

but although he used his sword with skill, it failed

to make any impression upon the armour of the

young knight ; and he, disdaining to take an unfair

advantage of bis adversary, sought only to disarm

him. This, with one who so well knew the use of

his weapon as Von Haalst, was no easy task, and

their combat continued long and fiercely, while

Agnes sat trembling with horror. The man who

had directed Adolf and his uncle now arrived, but

did not wait to assist in capturing Von Haalst ; he

cried out as he passed swiftly —

You will make horn prisoner without aid

easily; let a few of your retainers follow and assist

me — the greatest prize to me is still to be

caught and conquered."

Adolf returned no reply, but feeling annoyed

that Von Haalst should yet keep horn at bay, he

exerted every point of skill he knew, and very

speedily the sword of his adversary flew from his

grasp ; he seized horn instantly by the throat, and,

with the point of his sword within an inch of it,

bade horn demand quarter. For a moment Von

Haalst hesitated ; his eyes gleamed like balls of

fire ; he gnashed his teeth and tried to wrest his

throat from the iron grasp that held it, but it was

too strong ; and as he felt the sharp point of the

weapon piercing his neck he sullenly murmured

his surrender and request for life. The Baron

and his retainers at this moment arrived, and

Adolf dispatched half a dozen of there to assist the

stranger, who had gone in pursuit of Steinhart and

the two attendants. His first care was to approach

Agnes, and, in a voice which was well calculated

to reassure her, he begged her to fear no further

danger ; for he would treat her with a brothers

care until he had safely placed her with her friends.

With tears of joy she thanked horn, and spoke in

strong terms of the bitter agony her father would

endure until her return. The Baron no sooner

glanced his eye upon her, than he recognized her.

How I" he exclaimed with surprise, " the fair

Agnes Flors, the beautiful daughter of the choicest

of Antwerp's painters, in this strait ! Why,

who has heaped this foul indignity upon thee ? —

let me look upon the knave — Ha I" he cried, with

a start of astonishment as he beheld Von Haalst,

who met his gaze with a haughty glance, "and list

thou, count — thou ? Oh I degenerate sou of a

noble father, how 1 blush for thee ! I have heard

of thv misdoings, I have been told of thy black

deeds, but would scarce credit mine ears : now,

alas ! it is too plain. It is well for thee thy father

is no more : he would else have slain thee

with his own hand, to wipe out so foul a stain from

his good name as thou hast cast upon it. A man

of more unspotted honour, of more noble spirit,

of unsullied soul than he, never breathed : I was

his oldest and dearest friend, and never until now

knew his proud, unblemished 'scutcheon tarnished

by act of his, or deeds of others."

I need not a catalogue of my father's virtues,"

cried Von Haalst sternly. "He is dead — let

them rest with him."

Shame upon thee !" returned the baron, excitedly.

" Shame upon thee, Count ! my cheeks

burn and my blood tingles at thy words. Grievous

as was thy father's loss to me, still I rejoice that

it hath taken place, that he should be spared the

sight of thy delinquency. By thy father's soul !

thou must be a changeling — thou hast no blood of

his in thy veins.'

Perhaps it may please thee to doubt my mother's

honour," cried Von Haalst, with a sneer.

The Barons hand clutched the hilt of his sword,

and his lip trembled with a strong effort ; however,

he curbed his passion, and said, in a marked

tone —

"It would not become me to raise my hand

against thine, thou'rtun worthy of it. Go! your castle

is not far distant, aud if you seclude yourself within

its walls until you have wooed back honour to thy

soul, you will do wisely. High as may be thy

station, there is punishment for such deeds as

thine ; and, if thou dost persist in the path thou

hast chosen, it will surely come."

You allude to the FehmGerichte," returned

Von I laalst. " Perhaps you are one of its members."



And if I am," returned the Baron, with a

frown, " it is such as thou should dread mc."

"I, too, maybe one of the initiated," he observed

with a sneer.

And if thou art, the more terrible will be thy

doom," exclaimed thejßaron. Von Haalst smiled

haughtily, but an ashy paleness stole over his face

as his eye met that of Baron Hainault' s, and, in

spite of his efforts to the contrary, he shuddered.

Go," concluded the old noble, " and let me not

see thee until thought wiser and better."

Von Haalst muttered an exclamation, of which

the word " revenge" only could be caught, and

galloped away ; while Adolf and the Baron,

conversing with the now delighted Agnes, repeated

their promise of protection to her, and retraced

their steps. They were soon overtaken

by the man who had caused the rescue of Agnes,

and the retainers, bringing with them Steinhart

and the two attendants of Von Haalst, bound, and

prisoners. When the maiden learned the strangers

instrumentality in her deliverance, she poured

forth her thanks with all the fervour of true gratitude

; but the man would not accept them.

Im plain Peter Vanderwesel," he said, " and

lam as plain as my name. I sought Ruprecht

Schmidt, and horn I have got. It was a lucky

thing for you he was in your company ; if he had

not been, you would not have had me following in

your track three days, that's all I have to say."

As he concluded he galloped in front, and kept

close to Steinhart ; however, just as night closed

in, the ruffian contrived to get his arms at liberty,

slip from his horse, dash through a quantity of

underwood, leap into a broad stream which wound

near the road they were pursuing, and swam across

it ; his form was soon lost in the fast approaching

darkness. Peter Vanderwesel sat aghast, but

speedily recovering himself he asked, and received

the permission for two retainers, who volunteered

to accompany him. They forced their way through

the brushwood, entered the stream, and guided

their swimming steeds in the direction they had

seen Steinhart take : while Baron Hainault, Adolf,

and Agnes, attended by the page and retainers,

followed the road which led them to Antwerp, little

dreaming that Von Haalst had spurred on his

weary steed with the intention of speedily gaining

his castle, summoning a large number of his people,

and returning to re-capture, with their aid,

Agnes Flors.

CHAP. XII.

Upon recovering from his swoon, Qtiintin 

found himself in a small room, alone with

Frank Merritt. A heavy sigh burst from his lips

as his eyes feebly opened, and he gazed around

horn with an air of wildness : his looks wandered

from object to object with a vacant expression, and

it was not until he heard the voice of his companion

that he appeared conscious of his return to

life.

Where am I?" he ejaculated, in a faint tone.

"Where thought safer than thou wert a few

Minutes since, and with one who will see no harm

come to thee while he is near thee," replied Frank

Merritt, raising horn from the floor upon which

he had laid horn to speed his recovery. " Hold

up thy head, man," he cried, cheeringly, "it is

but a drop of blood or so ; a hearty dinner and a

skin of wine will supply thy veins quickly. Why,

thou'lt be a bolder and a better man, with new

blood in thy veins, than e'er thou wert ; cheer

thee ! lay thine arm upon mine, steadily ; — wc

have the night before us — thy dwelling is not far

distant — wc shall soon gain it."

As he spoke he led Quintain towards the door

of the apartment ; before, however, he could open

it, a heavy foot was heard without, approaching

it ; the door was flung rudely open, and one of the

troopers, whom the Count Idenberg had designated

Guthrie, entered.

How, now," exclaimed Frank impatiently, a

frown settling on his brow, " what is thy business ?"

To see thee," returned Guthrie. " The Count

would have immediate speech with thee."

For what purpose ?" asked Frank hastily.

He makes no confident of me," returned the

man, with a sneer ; " you should best know his

wish who carry all his secrets as though thou

wert his money chest secured with six locks, all

fitted with different keys, and they dependent upon

the master key."

Frank Merritt slightly bit his nether lip, and

then said, in a cold, calm tone, more dangerous

from its very calmness —

I have whipped out a knave's tongue for insolence

crc now, and may again. Tell Count

Idenberg I will wait on horn anon."

He bade me tell thee thou wert to attend horn

on the instant," replied the fellow, in the same insolent

tone. " I will attend to this stripling during

thy absence."

"Was that a part of his bidding too?" enquired

Frank, eyeing horn closely.

"It was," replied Guthrie, turning away his

eyes from beneath the searching glance of his

interrogator.

Then do thou mine," returned Frank ; ** tell

horn I will wait upon horn at my convenience, and

clear thee speedily from my path, or I'll fling thee

out of it with no light hand."

I have my duty to perform," said Guthrie,

sturdily. " I was bid keep guard over this youngster

while thou wert with the Count,"

I know the Count's purpose, and thine ; it

suits not my humor, and that must suffice both,"

returned Frank. • " Hie thee back to horn with

my reply to his request, or stay if thou wilt, but

let me warn thee ; if thou loiter in thy determination,

thy stay will be short ; there is a deep well

beneath this window — dost thou know it ?"

I do— what then ?" returned Guthrie.

Thou shall fathom its depths crc thought a

few minutes older," returned Frank, in the same

cold tone he had before used, " unless thou dost

hurry thyself out of my eyes, and in future keep

a thought to precede the wagging of thy tongue.

Begone, fool; thou mayst as well play with a

lighted match upon a heap of gunpowder, as bandy

words with, or thwart mc."

"I fear thee not," replied Guthrie, in a bold

tone, yet playing his fingers on the handle of a

long dagger which was stuck in his belt. " Thought

but man, though thy size is enormous. Still, a

giant fell by the hand of David ; it therefore

follows not that thou shouldst gulp me down at a

swallow."

As he finished, he thrust Quintain, who was advancing

with Frank, rudely back, causing horn,

weak as he was from loss of blood, to stagger and

nearly fall.

But thought no David," cried Frank, catching

horn by the throat with the swiftness and suddenness

of a tigers spring. " Thought the fool that pulled

the house upon thee to shew thy strength, and

got crushed."

A faint gurgle was all the man had power to

utter ; his face became in an instant as black as

night, his eyes started frightfully from their sockets,

his tongue protruded, but no further sound

issued from bis lips. Frank dragged horn to the

window without the wretched man being able to

prevent hir n; he touched a spring, the window

flew silently up, leaving an open space from the

floor upward, through which the cold night, air

rushed immediately. Before Quintain, who had

looked on with an astonished air at this affair between

the trooper and Frank, could interpose, the

latter hurled his struggling opponent from horn,

and he was lost to sight on the instant.

A dull heavy sound broke the silence which

succeeded the appearance of the trooper ; it was

the hollow echo of his fall, given by the deep

pit into which he had been precipitated. Again

Frank touched the spring, the window resumed its

place with the same uselessness as before, and

Frank, with a face whose expression shewed no

sign of the act he had that moment committed,

turned to Quintain, and, offering his arm, exclaimed

—

Wc had best hasten from here ; a step thrown

away lazily may be ten steps towards a destination

I do not believe you have any desire yet to

approach."

Quintain shrunk from his touch. The sudden

destruction of the trooper, accomplished with a

coolness which rendered the act remorseless,

made horn shudder in his astonishment. In the

heat of self-defence, Quintain would not have hesitated

to cut down his foe, but the indifference of

human life which Frank displayed was more than

he could view with justifying eyes, and he hesitated

to receive further support from one who

could consign one man to eternity with the same

coolness which he displayed in rescuing another

from being plunged into it. Merritt, at a single

glance, observed what was passing in Quitting

mid, and said, with much emphasis —

"Thou dost recoil from me because I have

done a deed which has saved thy life. Youth,

that fellow bad more murders — cold-blooded,

treacherous, monstrous murders, upon his soul,

than thy imagination could conjure up ; a slave,

a reptile, where he was compelled to bow — a sanguinary

tyrant, where he could have the power ;

let me not speak of him — I sicken more to think

that he existed so long than of the deed I have

done. He was doomed, I but anticipated his

hour ; he was in every way a monster ; his purpose

here was, had I been fool enough to trust

thee to his tender guardianship, and sought the

presence of the count, to have slain thee : there

would have been no mercy, no hope, no escape.

But the fool was short-sighted : he saw I was out

of favor with the count, and deemed it an ell on

his feather to beard me ; he has tested the danger

of it."

Was it by the count's order he came hither?"

asked Quintain with interest.

Doubtless !" he replied, " he mistrusted me,

and a second thought has made horn resolve to

make sure of your silence ; you would have been

stabbed to the heart in this chamber, without the

power of saving yourself, and found a grave

where the miserable wretehGuthric now lies. My

hand, as yet hath saved thee from that fate ; but

unless wc hurry away, I know not that it will be

able anon to do so : dost thou shrink now ?"

Quintain laid his arm instantly on his with an

air of confidence, which appeared to gratify

Frank, for with a justifying, almost remorseful

tone, which he had not before used, he exclaimed,

I should not have been so speedy with the

fool but that he has a lusty throat, and though I

can wield a sword indifferently well, yet a dozen

or twenty stout fellows are more than enough fora

single roan to stand against with sufficient success

to have saved thee, weak as thou art, from

the death to which Count Idenberg has in his

heart doomed thee ; but enough of this, wc must

quit, and that by a way thou knowest not — one

indeed which few of ye good citizens of Antwerp

would ever dream of."

He led Quintain out of the chamber as he spoke,

and traversed a long narrow passage. Ere they

had reached the end, Quintain asked for the release

of Caspar Hauser.

Hush," returned Frank Merritt in a whisper,

a word is worth a life ; he shall accompany us

if I can induce horn to keep his clamorous tongue

between his tooth, but — " He stopped short suddenly,

and grasped Quintain' s arm ; he drew horn

quickly into a small recess, which in the gloom

which shadowed it he had not observed ; he held

horn there, and Quintain speedily understood the

cause, in hearing the hurried tread of footsteps :

another moment he perceived Count Idenberg, attended

by Repel, bearing a torch, approaching ;

he was speaking, though in a low tone. As he

gained the spot where Quintain and Frank were secreted,

they heard horn exclaim —

There should be no such delay if the knave

hath done my bidding well ; Frank Merritt should

have, crc this, attended me at my summons and,

despite his swaggering, been with the foul fiend,

hastening after the young — "

The remainder was inaudible, for he swept past

at a swift rate.

Now," exclaimed Frank quickly, " our chance

of escape rests upon gaining one spot. Quick,

quick, man, if you would not lose thrice the blood

the Count's sword robbed ye of. Are ye fainting

or why do you hesitate ?"

"My sword," exclaimed Quintain, putting his

hand to his side and finding that it had disappeared.

It is gone," he cried.

Ay," replied Frank, with a slight laugh,

think ye the means of resistance would be left

thee when thy hours were numbered ? Thou hasta

ready way of using thy sword, Quintain ; the

Count observed it, and kindly hoped to save the

gentle Guthrie from getting into mischief.

Come, if thou canst not run I must carry thee,

for by St. Bavon ! to stay here is to woo death

with impatient longing."

Caspar Hauser must be set free, or I stir not,"

exclaimed Quintain, firmly.

Hang horn, he would thrust himself in here ;

let horn get out his own way," returned Frank, for

the first time exhibiting angry impatience, attempting

to drag Quintain forward as he spoke.

"He hazarded his life for me," said Quintain,

I'll risk mine — "

Risk I" interrupted Frank, " fling it away.

Thought mad; another minute and wc shall be too

late ; come, or stay and be slaughtered."

Where didst thou leave him— i'll myself

seek horn ont," returned Quintain.

Confusion light oh the meddling knave 1"

muttered Frank through his teeth, " Hell cause

thy death, Quintain : thought grievously headstrong,

even to insanity ; have with me, and I pass thee

my word I'll set thy rash friend free."

"It is enough ; I do not think thou wilt break

thy word with me," said Quintain, instantly moving

forward as quickly as his weakness would permit.

No — no ; that will I not, by my soul !" exclaimed

Frank with somewhat strange earnestness.

I was too hasty in condemning his interference ;

he is your friend, and he did his duty to thee boldly

and nobly — Ha 1 listen !"

"Guthrie! Guthrie !" shouted a voice loudly.

It was the Count's. Again and again it was repeated,

accompanied by Rupel's also, making the

chamber and passage ring with its echo.

The foul fiend I" muttered Frank between his

teeth, ** wc shall be foiled yet. S'death, hurry,

hurry, Quintain, throw thy weakness to the devil ;

think of thy sister, of thy mother, of any one else

thou mayst hold dear, and for their sakes make a

struggle for thy liberty."

Although Frank uttered this in a low tone,

yet there was an enthusiasm in his manner which

went direct to Quintain's heart : he did think of his

mother, of his sister, and of Agnes — was he never

to see them— her again ? A thrill ran through

his frame, he clenched his hand and exclaimed —

Oh, that I had but a sword."

Would thou hadst," responded Frank quickly,

yet thou dost not need it at this moment. —

Down here," he continued, turning short from

the passage ; " fear not — they are stairs, even

and regular until they reach the bottom ; this

deadly darkness but hides the ease of descent from

thy eyes : seize my belt— fear no stumble ; follow

with all thy haste, for thy life depends upon

it."

Frank darted down the steps as he spoke, drawing

Quintain almost off his feet ; for, as bid, he

had seized his belt. With the utmost rapidity

they descended, nor paused when they had reached

the bottom. Frank hurried on with as much

ease through the intense darkness as if guided by

a bright light, and it was not until several vaults,

he could not form a remote

conception, were passed through, that Frank

slackened his speed.

This place," he observed, " will afford us a

temporary security, unless our footsteps were

heard descending : if that be the case wc shall be

followed, and our safety rests upon those who have

done so. If it be but the Count and Repel, wc

can deal with them ; if more, the struggle will be

harder. Take this dagger, Quintain — it is the

only weapon I can spare thee. Leave thou the

".Si^ . : - ; i a/<j?-:' l ~

irififi*-

Quintain MATSYS 1 INTERVIEW WITH AGNES Flora.

him, since I have learned how he intends to dispose

of mo. Repel is a hound, as ignorant as a

eub — thou hast, I think, once encountered horn ;

should he now attack thee, avoid his first blow,

seize horn by the throat crc he can bestow another,

then use thy dagger. Hark! by the Holy

Mother ! there comes a dozen feet down the

stairs ; would thou wert not here, Quintain, I'd

dash amongst them as a ravenous wolf in the

midst of a flock of sheep. They carry torches

too ; shroud thee behind yon pillar, they may not

observe thee even when they discover mc. By

the Mass ! it shall go hard but I give them occupation

enough to make them forget thee if they

unkennel mc."

He ceased, for the steps sounded nearer, the

light from the torches became brighter, and immediately

afterwards the count and a number of

his followers made their appearance. The innkeeper,

who had proved so obsequious to Quintain,

accompanied the count, and was bowing and

scraping as though he were ushering horn into a

magnificent drawing room. The old noble,

whose tone of voice and short, impatient manner

testified his anger, checked his servility with no

gentle terms, bidding horn drop his circumlocutory

style and be more explicit.

While looking at the window," continued the

count, "you say you perceived it fly up, and

Frank Merritt hurl Guthrie to the depths beneath?"



I say it appeared to me so," observed the

innkeeper, " I could not swear to it."

The man gave a look round, and a shudder, ashe

concluded.

"Pish!" cried the count, angrily, "it was

horn ; he shall be tom limb from limb, were be

thrice what he is. Where docs this outlet lead

to ? speak, man, quickly."

There is no outlet from hence but the steps

wc have descended," returned the innkeeper, with

chattering teeth, his eye glancing uneasily around

him.

Then whoever descended these steps a minute

previous to us must be here secreted?" interrogated

the count, eagerly.

Ye— ye — yes," replied the man, trembling

excessively, either from extreme coldness or from

fright.

Search every corner, and slay whoever you

find," cried the count, in loud harsh tones, to his

retainers, who instantly moved forward to obey

his order. < .-.-.

At this moment the innkeeper uttered a shout

evidently of horror, and dropped the torch he was

holding ; it fell into a pool of water, and, with a

loud hiss, was immediately extinguished. As it

fell, there was a sudden rush of a tall figure

among the men; it seemed as though the Evil

One had come among them, it flitted so unexpectedly,

so rapidly, so silently; Repel found

himself seized by the throat, flung to the ground,

with a violence which threatened to crush every

bone in his body, the torch he bore was tom from

his grasp, and the light destroyed, before even

his eye lighted upon the object who accomplished

it. The darkness was now as dense as

when Frank and Quintain first entered the place ;

a dead silence, the effect of intense astonishment,

followed, then every one shouted, and a complete

uproar ensued; each man instantly drew his

sword, expecting to be fearfully attacked from

some unknown quarter, by whom he could not

divine. The fear of evil spirits, respecting whom

the most awful legends were rife at that period,

possessed them all in a greater or less degree,

and rendered a rush to the steps the first impulse.

In the midst of the confusion, Quintain,

who had not stirred from the spot he had stationed

himself in on the first appearance of the count

and his followers, felt his arm suddenly seized,

and heard the voice of Frank whisper in his ear—

Now is the moment for our escape— be silent,

and let me lead you."

Quintain obeyed ; it was impossible to see where

he was going, but he resigned himself to the

guidance of his companion, and soon found he

was leaving the enemy behind : their voices grew

fainter, until they subsided altogether. Once

only during their progress did Frank stop ; he

bade, however, Quintain advance, and the latter,

as he did so, fancied he heard the bolt of a door

shot into the staple ; his companion joined horn the

moment after, and with a chuckle exclaimed —

They will be nimble knaves to intercept us

now ; thy danger for the present is over. Quin-tin,

thou wilt reach thine home in safety."

"I have to thank thee for having twice tonight

saved my Use," said Quintain, warmly, " I

will not forget it."

I would have thee do it, it is not worth thy

remembrance," exclaimed Frank, lightly. " Thou

hast done wonders," he added, changing the

subject, " thy feebleness seemed to have lest

thee at a word ; thy mother and thy sister, —

he emphasized the last word — must share largely

of thy love, that a mere apostrophe to there

should, like magie, restore thy strength."

They deserve it, and they have it," returned

Quintain, laconically, fearing the subject would

lead to Agnes, and so desirous to turn it, said,

where shall wc meet with Casper Hauser ?"

Bo not alarmed, thou hast my word he shall

be set free," replied Frank. " Why, how now,

thy step grows feebler, thy faintness is returning.

St. Bavon ! I thought so, thy wound hath broken

out afresh, the blood hath seemed through the

bandage and is running from thee like water ; stay,

I will renew it."

Nay, it hath but shifted," responded Quintain,

the fresh air will revive me, I can feel wc are

approaching it. Casper Hauser must return

with us, how is it to be accomplished ?"

Only by boldness, speed, and a little tractability

in thy friend," replied Frank, replacing

the bandage. I will leave thee in a spot, from

which, on no account whatever, must thou move

until my return ; give me some talisman by which

I may on the instant convert his stubbornness

into instant obedience, and a long interval shall

not elapse crc I bring horn to thine arms."

Say to horn that 1 and Blanche expect horn,

it is a signal of his own coining," said Quintain;

"he promised on the instant to follow who ever

uttered it."

Blanche !" exclaimed Frank, in a tone of

surprise, then checking himself, he added, " you

have known thin youth long ?"

From childhood, wc were boys together ;

playmates and friends from my earliest recollect

tion have wo been," returned Quintain, readily.

An exclamation, something like au oath, burst

from the lips of Frank, but he stifled it crc

Quintain could understand it ; it was followed by

a profound sigh, and they proceeded for a few

minutes in silence, at length Frank exclaimed —

This is tho spot, await me here, move not,

answer not, unless you hear my voice exclaim,

Faithful now aud ever;' then mayest thou stretch

out thy right hand and grasp that of thy friend's

Casper Hauser."

Before Quintain could reply, he heard the echo

of Franks retreating footsteps. The darkness

was still impenetrable, he could not see one inch

from his eyes, and without having any idea of

the description of place in which he stood, he

awaited in silence the return of his late companion

and Casper Hauser. He remained sometime

without stirring, listening intently for any-sound

to fall upon his ears, but the stillness was

unbroken. Feeling his faintness increase he disobeyed

Franks injunction, and groped about fora

place where he might seat and rest himself; his

hand soon reached the wall, and, passing along,

be found what seemed to be a stone bench or a

step, and upon that step he seated himself. He

had not been there long when he heard approaching

footsteps ; they advanced rapidly, but with a

certain healthiness of manner which made it

evident it was desirous they should not be heard.

.As soon as they drew close to Quintain he was.

about to address the corner, believing it to be

Frank, when a feeling of prudence flashed across

his brain, and he remained silent, waiting for the

signal which the latter had promised to give upon

his return. It was not given ; and after a few

uncertain wanderings the footsteps ceased, and

whoever made the sound stood within a few feet

of Quintain, as noiseless as himself. One, two,

three minutes passed away, seeming almost hours,

and the silence was uninterrupted. Once our

hero, who listened with an excess of intenseness,

fancied he heard a breath drawn, but it was so

slight, so quickly gone, that he could scarcely

tell whether it was fancy or not ; he heard it not

again, though he listened anxiously for it. He

himself sat motionless, breathless, vainly endeavouring

to conjecture who the person could

be thus close to horn, whether friend or foe ; was

he— could he be conscious of the proximity of

Quintain ? what was his purpose in being there ?

why wait expectantly, doubtlessly ? He would

have rushed forward in the darkness and seized

horn, but he might do considerably more harm to

himself than good ; it was impossible to foresee

what would be the issue of such an act; he might

compromise the safety of Frank and Casper ; indeed,

it was not improbable that such would be the

consequence of rash conduct, and he therefore

resolved to remain silent. How slowly and

tediously the moments appeared to pass ; they

seemed lo be extended into twenty times their

natural length. Quintain grew excited with the

very sti.lnc.-s ; nothing like fear possessed horn,

but a nervousness crept over horn which, in spite

of himself, he could not shake off; he would not

have cir.:d if he could have heard a breath, a

movement, but the most awful stillness continued,

and he could fancy a pair of eyes glared out of

the darkness full upon him. An hundred times

he was on the point of darting forward, but

he restrained himself, bearing all the strange

phantasies that his brain conjured up with a sternness

of determination which, considering his weakness

from loss of blood, was almost astonishing.

To see in that intense blackness was impossible ;

he therefore buried his eyes in his hands, that he

might not be misled by fancying thing* which had

no existence but in his brain. Still Frank came

not, nor was there any movement on the part of

the being whom he felt was near him — so near,

as almost to be within bis reach. His excitement

was growing insupportable; to remain much

longer there was impossible. He was fast coming

to the resolution of pouncing upon his unknown

companion, when the horrid stillness was

once more broken by the sound of footsteps.

This time it was evident, though they were made

cautiously, there was the beat of more than

one pair of feet. At the first sound, Quintain

sprang from his resting place and darted forward

to the spot where he felt convinced he had heard

the stranger pause. Nothing, however, but vacancy

met his grasp ; he felt in every direction

with no better success. The new corners, who

proved to be Frank Merritt and Casper Hauser,

reached horn, and he was still unsuccessful. A

few brief, rapid words made Frank Merritt acquainted

with the mystery, and, drawing his

sword, he searched every corner of the dreary

vault, with whose locality ho wa 9 perfectly acquainted,

but without unkennelling the intruder.

At length he said —

If thine ears did not deceive thee, the spy

has decamped ; there is not a corner into which a

beetle could cram itself I have not searched. It

is useless to search farther ; let us make the best

use of our heels, for, by the Mass ! wc had need

be nimble. Give me thy band."

Quintain stretched forward his hand and seized

that of Frank .Merritt's : he exchanged a few

words with Casper, and once more they hurried

forward through various turnings, which they

would have scarce been conscious of, but for

Franks injunctions to be cautious as they swept

round the corners. .At length he paused, and

said — ■ -

Now for the certainty of escape or detention !

remain for a moment where thou art ; I will

reconnoitre if the path is clear; thou shalt hear

my signal — unless thou dost, do not follow mc."

He mounted a flight of steps, and ere the sound

of his feet had died away, they felt a rush of

fresh air upon their faces. Casper Hauser was

about to enter into a conversation respecting their

strange situation, and his reflections thereon, but

Quintain stopped horn, for at that moment he heard

Franks signal. They mounted the steps, and

in less than a minute found themselves ou the

banks of the Scheldt, whose dark waters were

flowing swiftly and silently by. An exclamation

of astonishment burst from the lips of Quintain

and Casper; but Frank, who had evinced more

restlessness, more anxiety, since his return with

Casper than before, exclaimed—

A truce with your wonder— save it for the

security of your own chamber. You have your

sword, and a strong arm," he continued, addressing

Casper, " be ready to use it, should wc be interrupted

crc wc reach yon building." He

pointed to a dreary looking mansion. "If wc

have been tracked hither wc shall be intercepted ;

if not, I have the countersign."

Quintain refrained asking the cause of this mystery

; he knew he was upon what appeared publie

ground, and it seemed marvellous that there

should be myrmidons of Count Idenberg' s hereto

stay hir n; yet his desire to gain his residence

mastered his curiosity and he followed Frank

without question ; while Casper, needing only to

be told that his sword might be required for the

safety of his friend and himself, drew it from its

sheath, and was read', without enquiry, to use it

on the instant. They had not advanced many

steps crc two figures sprang suddenly from the

shadow of a pile of timbered stood before them :

they were strongly armed, and crossing, the pikes

they carried, before Frank and his companions,

one of there exclaimed in a low, but rough voice —

You wander late !"

Never too late to serve a noble," was Franks

instant rejoinder.

Who serves ?" said the man.

"Frank Merritt," he replied quickly.

Pass on !" the fellow rejoined, and with his

companion glided into his former hiding plnca

with a quiet step. Frank led the way ; on reaching

the building he knocked in a peculiar fashion

at a small wicket, made in a pair of massive folding

gates ; and he passed through, followed by his

young companions. The agency by which they

gained admittance was, save the wicket, invisible;

but an immense store of arms met their astonished

gaze. They found themselves in a large store or

ware room which contained piles of weapons of

every description, as well as stacks of barrels,

which, it took them little trouble to surmise, was

gunpowder. The place was lighted by two large

lamps, and though no living being met the eye, yet

there were sufficient indications of their presence,

though they were invisible, to excite the curiosity

of Quintain, aud Casper especially. Frank, however,

made a sign for there to observe strict caution;

without pausing he passed through bedchamber,

and so, by means of a small passage, out of

the building. He hurried on without remark, and

it was not until they had nearly gained the street,

in which dwelt Quintain, that he uttered a word,

and then he said, iv tones in which deep feeling

struggled for mastery with his usual calm mode

of speaking —

Quintain Matsys, for the present thought safe,

but for the present only ; I know not into what

situations or circumstances I may be speedily hurried,

so as to render thee service in the shape of

warnings or counsel impossible ; but I will promise

thee that where I have the power to avert

evil from thee I will, though in doing it I risk life

and all it holds dear. It seems strange to thee

that I should show such in terest in thee, a stranger,

one whom in seeking I — ." He paused, for ibis

eye suddenly lighted on Casper Houses countenance

betraying the most eager curiosity, and

checking himself added " I will tell thee anon ;

what I have to say is for thine ear alone."

Casper's face instantly became the hue of scarlet,

and he exclaimed rather impetuously " You

wrong me if you suppose I wish impertinently to

pry into the secrets of any one — I would scorn it

as I should any mean or dishonorable act ; but I

am as deeply interested in all that relates to Quin-tin

Malays as he is himself, and if I exhibited too

inquisitive a countenance, attribute it to that only.

Fear not, that, were you to disclose aught which

might endanger horn in any shape, I would for any

inducement, good or great, reveal it to mortal.

Quintain knows this — I would have you do so too ;

but reserve your communication, whatever it may

contain, for his private ear ; I seek not to know

it, unless in knowing it I can prove of service."

Quintain responded with a grateful look, and

said—

Thy truth and friendship is beyond doubt"

Natheless, his prudence is more questionable,"

observed Frank with a smile. — " Be not offended,

young sir," he continued to Casper, " the wannest

heart has not often the coolest head ; needed I a

sword and a true soul to aid me in a desperate

strait, I might look far and wide crc I found a

better than thine ; but thy discretion and foresight

will not bear such high praise. Thou hast had too

little exercise for whatever thou mayst possess ;

and thine eye must not look on me with an unjust

prejudice, if matters, which require a head as cool

as the heart bo firm to contain them, be for the

present kept from thee."

Casper bowed rather haughtily, and Quintain,

desirous of turning the subject, which was on very

delicate ground, to another channel, observed to

Frank—

Were you interrupted in liberating Casper ?"

I was, and by Count Idenberg," he returned ;

"by St. Bavon ! it is something to have a reputation

for desperate recklessness — it left me a

clear path ! A few words of recrimination, which

has given both cause for serious reflection, passed

between us, and I passed on my way untracked

by any one of his fellows ; who, though they may

not hesitate to take their chance of life in a conflict

with numbers, have not the courage to advance

singly where death is little less than certain. I

found your friend hero raging like a young tiger ;

your pass-word would scarce pacify horn, and I believe,

had I at first returned horn his sword, I

should have had a hard fight with horn before I

had tamed his spirit enough to permit horn to understand

you waited for him. Our return to you

was by a path different to the one I led yon, and

was unobstructed."

The residence of Quintain was by this time

gained, and before the portal could be struck the

door was opened, and Blanche, bearing a lamp,

greeted their eyes. She had been weeping it iv

evident, and the moment she perceived her brothers

white face, the bloody bandage upon hi.

shoulder, and his exhausted bearing, she uttered

an exclamation of horror.

Merciful heaven I" she cried, " you are wounded

Quintain. Holy Virgin ! what has happened '-.

Oh, why — why nave you suffered yourself to

be led by the wickedness of others into scenes

which have brought you danger aud us sorrow ? "

She glanced at Frank as she spoke with a look

which could scarce be mistaken. He observed it ;

a strange change passed over his features, but he

made no remark.

What, Blanche, art thou growing weak-minded

?" said Quintain, in as steady a voice as he

could assume. " Thought unjust, and speak without

consideration ; this is a mere scratch brought

on by ray own conduct, nothing more. lam sorry

I should have kept thee from thy couch to give

thee or our dear mother cause for anxiety and

alarm, but Blanche, it is not thy wont to be

startled at shadows or to meet evil crc it is halfway

to thy door."

But thou knowest there are strange and fearful

rumors abroad," she returned, "and thou wert

ever fond of joining those whose love of adventure

is far greater than their judgment ; but thought

returned, and that is repayment enough for the

perhaps foolish fancies I have been weakly conjuring

up."

Dear Blanche," replied Quintain fondly, "thy

love for me I appreciate most truly, but thou must

not suffer it to make thee childish ; hie thee to

thy chamber and sleep lightly if the knowledge

that I am safe and unhurt, save a touch which will

be healed by tomorrow, can make thee. Goodnight,

the Holy Mother bless and keep thee."

He kissed her tenderly, and, with eyes into which

the tears had sprung suddenly, she moved from

the spot.

"Stay, Blanche — de— hem ! Blanche," cried

Casper, a little nervously ; " have you not one

word to say to me before you depart ?"

Yes, two," she replied, smiling through her

tears, and holding out her fair white hand, which

Casper with avidity seized and carried to his lip)

"Good night!"

Good night," he responded with enthusiasm ;

may the softest and sweetest repose attend your

slumbers, and all good angels, with the fairest

dreams, hover round your pillow."

A kind wish, truly ; hast thou no reply to it,

Blanche ?" said Quintain, smiling.

— ■— — am— —a*— i> t-tmmmmmm* I i i

Bid me dream of thee," cried Casper to her

earnestly, " and thou couldst not wish me a happier

dream."

Dream what thou wilt, Casper," she said

kindly, "so that it bringeth thee the happiness

thou hast wished mc." She was departing without

waiting to hear the rapturous thanks bursting

from her lover's lips, when she was once more

stayed, and that by the deep tones of Franks

voice, which some thoughts passing through his

mid appeared to have so powerful an influence

on, as to render its usually rough tone rich and

even harmonious.

Maiden," he exclaimed, « I pray thy pardon

for detaining thee, even for one moment, to listen

to words from roy mouth, yet, though I dream not

of gaining front thee a word or wish so kind as

those you have bestowed on this youth, I would

not have thee seek thy pillow with the holies' resting

on thy mid which in thy first greeting of thy

brother but now thou didst most unequivocally

express : thou hast known no one of late who has

taken Quintain abroad on matters new or mysterious

but myself; the strangeness of my conduct,

and even thy brothers, since wc have met, have

led thee to suppose that the purpose for which I

sought horn must be one to compromise both his

honor and his happiness, and therefore I must bean

evil companion and a wicked counsellor. I

deny not the alteration in horn, nor the inference,

but may not the change in his bearing have been

effected by agency independent of mine ?" A

flush of crimson passed like lightning over Quin

in's features as Frank made this remark. " I say

not that it has," he added, observing it as well as

Blanche, " but it is not impossible I might not

have caused it. But, however, let it pass ; if there

has been a change, it has been in me— but let that

too pass," he added hastily ; " all I ask of thee,

maiden, is, that you drive from your mid the unjust

prejudice you have formed against me, and

when thou dost offer up thy prayers to heaven, in

registering the name of thy brothers truest,

staunchest friend, let not the name of Frank Merritt

be forgotten."

His voice trembled a little as he concluded, but

so slightly as scarcely to be noticeable, yet a tremendous

struggle was evidently passing through

his frame, and he bowed his head to conceal it ;

there was something in the manner, the tone, the

character of his speech, which carried conviction

with it, and Blanche, scarcely conscious of what

she did, held out her hand to horn as a peace offering

for evil thought's she had borne him. His

face became as white as marble ; he took it gently,

and raised it to his lips as respectfully as if it had

\

been the hand of an empress, and then releasing

it, said in low, deep tones —

From my soul I thank you !"

Waving her hand as a token of farewell to Casper,

she glided away. As she disappeared Frank

cleared his throat, which had grown strangely

husky, and said to Quintain —

I have yet a few words to say to you alone

crc wc part for a short period — it may be, perhaps,

never to meet again ; I will not long detain

thee, for thought fata nd need repose."

Casper readily took the hint ; he did not exactly

like leaving Frank there in such proximity to

Blanche, but he quickly dismissed the feeling, as

unworthy of her, and shaking hands with Quintain

most heartily, and a little less cordially with Frank,

departed.

I am no fatalist," observed Frank, when Casper

disappeared, " though I deem the manner of a

man's death not in his own keeping ; but if there

is any truth in the fate of one man being dependant

on that of another, then do I feel that mine is

so upon thine. Since I have known thee, an entire

revulsion of feelings, thoughts, and wishes, has

taken place within me ; I will not refer to it now,

or make thee acquainted who I am and what 1 have

been — that story shall be for another day ; let it

suffice thee, that the motive in seeking thee hath

been reversed. I know on what side thy sympathies

are enlisted; mine shall accompany them, and

thou and those thou wouldst serve will find me no

mean acquisition. At resent nothing can or will

be done but to make thee or me prisoners, that

wc may not disclose the preparations making to

restore the whole of the low countries to a state of

villainage. Be thou strongly cautioned by mc—

let nought of this knowledge escape thee but to

those whose services are most important and whose

cool heads and clear discernment will enable them

to see the advantage of working as secretly, and so

as surely — nay, more surely, than they are being

plotted against. I have a somewhat difficult part

to play — I must be many miles hence crc sunset,

but if I live, a week shall not pass away without

thy having a messenger from me or seeing mc.

Now heed my last words as you love your life : —

go no where from home unarmed; admit no

stranger here accompanied by others, nor even

alone, without being assured of coping with horn

on all points ; avoid all corners or recesses in the

streets at night ; eat not, drink not, any where

but at thine own table ; and then not without being

satisfied no hand could have reached it but those

who love you ; go not abroad without thy sword

or a coat of mail. There is little need to tell you

why ! I give you these precautions ; observe I hern

closely. And now farewell ! think of me as you will,

but think of me as your heartiest friend, which,

before God I I am."

He wrung Quintain's hand as he spoke, and without

waiting a reply he hurried away. Quintain

gazed aster horn until he was lost to sight, and,

then, closing the door, be retired mournfully to

his couch.

CHAP. XIII.

Quintain Matsys' wound was " not so deep asa

well, nor so wide as a church door," but it was

sufficient to confine horn to his bed for two days ;

at the end of that time he refused to remain

longer there, and for a very potent reason. Towards

the evening of the second day, his sister

Blanche was seated by his bedside, beguiling the

tedious time by such sweet converse as she thought

would cheer his spirit, which, principally owing to

hie inability to pay his promised visit to .agnes

Flors, were depressed, albeit her name had never

passed his lips. Among other topics discussed

were the rumors of the city, which, as may be

supposed, were of interest to hir n; suddenly,

Blanche observed in a quiet tone, unconscious of

the volcano which she was about to set in motion,

You know Michael Flors, the painter — that

is, by reputation?"

Well," he replied, feeling as if his breath were

leaving horn, " what of horn?"

•' He has a daughter rarely seen, but those few

who have seen her say she is the loveliest maiden

in all Flanders," she returned. " Have you soon

her?" '• •.

"Why do you ask?" he rejoined, turning aw ay

his face and endeavoring to speak in a tone of calm

indifference.

Oh, from no other motive than to know whether

report tells truth in a matter that concerns

all maidens who have any pretensions to a tolerable

arrangement of features," she replied, laughing.



"'s* , . .

Yourself included," be returned, regaining

his confidence, supposing the question to be

merely the result of accident.

To be sure," she answered archly, " else were

Ino true woman ; not that I have any vanity,

Quintain, in supposing myself to be prettier than

most of my sex, or indeed positively ugly, unless

that sketch you once made of me, and which dear

mother would so obstinately hang over the lire

place below, was like me ; then, indeed, I confess

to being hideous, and I only wonder what Cas — "

She paused suddenly. Quintain smiled, and

said —

Finish your sentence."

It was nothing," she added, laughing and tossing

her head, " but, to return to the original sub-unexpected





ARREST OF MICHAEL Flora.

jcct, Michael Flors and his daughter — " Plump

came Quintain's heart into his mouth again.

The whole city is in a commotion respecting

them."

Why ?" he inquired eagerly, forgetting a

desperate determination to be cool and indifferent

as instantly as he formed it.

Oh, the maiden has been carried away by

some vile hearted knave, some evil villain, who

deserves death richly. Her father, poor man, who

doated on her, is quite distracted," replied Blanche

earnestly. " I would thou had'st been near the

base wretch — he would not easily have done so

foul a deed."

"When — when did this take place?" cried

Quintain, with a startling earnestness, which surprised

Blanche.

Yesternight," she returned ; but why art thou

so anxious respecting it?"

Why am I anxious, Blanche ?" he exclaimed,

in a tone of almost reproachful wonder, and then

immediately checking himself, he added, "because

it is a disgrace to the city that this should have

taken place. It was said, when the burgomaster's

daughter was rescued, that no deed of the like

should again occur while the cathedral stood.

Faugh ! in a goodly fashion truly the city gates

are kept. Have no traces of the villain's path,

nor tidings, been gained yet. ?"

None but what their maid can tell," she returned

; " the maiden was decoyed away by a

rough-looking fellow, on the pretence of taking

her to a place where her father had been taken

suddenly ill ; she was seen to pass through the

city gates — that is all lat can be at present

obtained-blanche,

I rest here no longer ; lam well ;

I will hear more of this ;" cried Quintain, striving

to appear cool, but failing to accomplish it.

You will not surely leave your bed, Quintain ?"

she exclaimed with astonishment.

Were I wounded from neck to heel I would

not lie idly here another second. You know my

determination," he cried vehemently : " leave me,

dear Blanche, I am restored to health and vigor.

I — I — I must hear more of this matter."

Tell me," observed Blanche, in a serious tone,

have you ever seen Agnes Flors — do you know

her ?"

I do ;" he replied, turning away his head. She

made no reply, but instantly quitted the room,

murmuring inaudibly —

I was not wrong ; he loves, and 'tis she whom

he loves. Now Heaven be beneficent and spare

her wrong or shame, or a broken heart is thy

doom, dear brother."

With a speed which would have been great,

Even in health, Quintain attired himself. On descending

he found Casper Hauser, who said laconically

—

I have heard all, Quintain ; let me accompany

thee — I may be of service."

Follow speedily then, good Casper," was the

brief reply. With a kiss to his mother and sister

he rushed from the house, and sought Flors' residence.

The old man was absent, searching wildly

for his child. Quintain gathered such information

as Bertha could give horn, and then summoned a

few companions upon whom he could rely ; horses

were obtained, and every place round for miles

was searched, until the mill to which Agnes had

been conveyed was reached. Schmidt, though

closely questioned, expressed the most entire ignorance

of everything respecting her ; but Quintain

was not to be satisfied with his mere word, and

searched every hole and corner the mill contained.

In doing so, he discovered the veil belonging to

Agnes Flors ; it had her name beautifully worked

upon it. In an instant he seized upon Schmidt,

and vowed instantly to slay horn unless he discovered

what had become of the maiden. The

passionate words and gleaming eyes of the youth

affrighted horn, and in a moment of terror he confessed

all. He was at once dragged from the

mill, strapped upon a horse, and one of the party

mounted behind horn, and he was compelled to

point out the road Von Haalst had taken. Unceasingly

the track was followed ; at various

places a clue was obtained, and no delay was suffered

to intervene, save such as exhausted nature

imperatively demanded ; and early on the following

morning after the release of Agnes Flors had

been effected, Quintain and his party fell in with

that of the Baron I lain au It's, escorting the maiden

to Antwerp. There is no need to paint the joy of

our hero at meeting with her, or the gratitude

which possessed the heart of Agnes when she

found the exertions Quintain had made to overtake

and save her ; nor need it be told how great was

bis pride and pleasure, when the road leading to

the castle of Count Idenberg was reached, that

Baron Hainault consigned her with her free, nay,

glad consent, to his charge, quitted them, and with

his nephew and followers hastened to see of what

assistance he could be to the fair but persecuted

Meta.

Antwerp was soon gained, at least Quintain

thought so, though it took horn much longer to

return than it did to perform the same distance

when he left it ; and the maiden was restored to

her parent, who pressed her to his heart with a

delight which none but a fond parent, in such

circumstances, could feel. Quintain waited not to

be recognized ; he lest them to have the gladness

of their meeting unshared, unintended upon. It

was not until the second day that Quintain worked

himself up to the necessary boldness to pay the

visit he knew she expected, and which he himself

so anxiously desired to make. Perhaps there was

a little vanity in this, for he had been greatly fatigued

by his rapid journey, and the weakness his

wound occasioned helped to make horn appear wan

and haggard. He thought it as well to have whatever

benefit good looks might gain horn, and took

a little more rest than otherwise he might have

done. This was pardonable, for he certainly felt

marvellously in love with Agnes, and was very

desirous that she should return it. Ah ! he

might have spared himself some little trouble and

anxiety ! It was pleasant to horn to feel the reception

he met with, when Bertha ushered horn

into the painting room, both from father and

daughter ; he felt his heart glow as he heard the

eulogistic praise of old Flors, and felt the soft

pressure of Agnes' hand on his own. How loquaciously

and delightedly the old man kept his

tongue at work, and how patiently and pleased

Quintain listened ; for Agnes' eyes were turned

towards horn with the soft, kind expression that

made love spread most vigorous roots in his heart.

The old man, not dreaming of what might happen,

first praised his daughter to Quintain until the color

covered her fair face and neck, and then did

the same kind office for Quintain, until Agnes

sighed with too much happiness, and our hero

could have hugged the old painter for his discernment.



You needed but one thing to have been complete,

young gallant,"said Flors, rubbing his hands

with delight at the bare thought.

And pray what is that ?" enquired Quintain

with a smile.

You should have been a painter," returned

the old man, with a voice of enthusiasm. "An

artist you are it is true, but you should have been

a painter. Painting is the noblest art God has

given to man ; it lists horn above his fellows as

infinitely as a noble mid soars above one which

is base and grovelling ; it is the only art which

enables the hand to exhibit the passions of human

nature in their beauty or deformity at a glance —

the loveliest creation in nature to the most hideous

; it tells the story at a moment, which it takes

the poet pages to detail ; it presents to the eye all

that he can convey only to the mid; it embodies

a conception — it gives a tangibility to an image ;

it realises the speculative, it makes fact of fiction.

It has its poetry as beautifully expressed as words

can convey a poets thoughts ; it is the poetry of

nature, sir, and the poetry of the heart; it conveys

through the eyes homilies as powerful as the priest

can pour in our ears ; it teaches us to admire what

is beautiful, noble, or godlike, and to reject that

which is base and degrading. It ennobles the spirit

of horn who creates and horn who gazes on the

creation ; it draws on our sympathies more powerfully

than a tale told pathetically ; it appeals to

our senses more vividly than any other creative

power under Heaven ; it is an art which stands

alone, unrivalled. As it is the power of reflection,

and design, and speech, which lists man immeasurably

above the brute creation, so is it painting

which lifts the being who has the ability to excel

in its art nearer to his Maker than aught else ;

nor is it presumption to say so, for the incessant

call upon the immortal part of his nature must

bring horn in closer communion with the author of

his being than he who drudges on simply to live.

Painting is an art at present unapproachable but

by few, but rest assured the day will come, though

hundreds cf years may pass, when it will be as

much a household thing, and as necessary, as the

simplest piece of furniture in this apartment."

You are an enthusiast in your art," observed

Quintain, as the old man paused.

Ay ! indeed am I," replied the painter, "most

truly so, and unworthy should I be of the great

art I worship were I not so. lam passionately attached

to it, young sir ; so passionately, that no

other tie or feeling can interfere with it. I will

convince you of it. There sits my daughter, my

only child, the only relic of one whom I loved as

ardently as it is in the power of man to love woman

; she is my treasure, my souls darlings, roy

heart's idol; how deeply and dearly 1 love her, my

tears, my groans, my madness shewed when she

was tom from me ; I look upon her as inestimable,

and to such a gift as her hand I hold no one worthy

but a painter."

"What," cried Quintain, with a startled air,

can none but a painter claim to wed her ?"

Not with my consent : she would not wed

without it — she would not wish it," replied Flors,

speaking emphatically ; " but understand me : I

mean not a mere dauber, one who can simply use

the pencil without a soul to make his productions

beautiful or noble ; not a creature who knows not

the difference between the beautiful and the grand,

the sublime and the simple ; but one who has the

true genius, the real aspirations for the ideal and

its embodiment ; one who surpasses me in the execution,

and, at least, equals me in the conception

of my art. Such a man shall wm the hand of

Agnes, and such an one only."

The old roan concluded with a determination in

his tone which struck direct to Quintain's heart :

it seemed to be an ultimatum to which there was

no appeal. He turned to Agnes, and, in her

bowed head and the sad expression which he saw

stealing over her face, he read too strong a confirmation

of his fears.

Come my young friend," said Flors suddenly,

"wc will change the theme ; which though an absorbing

one to me may possess little interest for

you. I must consult your pleasure — what is your

favorite topic?"

Before Quintain could return horn a reply, a hurried

knock was given at the door ; and ere the

permission was given to enter, the door opened

and an elderly man, in a riding dress, appeared.

He beckoned Flors hastily towards horn, and said —

Good friend Flors, a word with you — it is of

vast importance. Pardon my abruptness, but my

intelligence will not wait for politeness."

Nay, it is not of so sudden and hurried a nature

that I should not bid you be seated, Burgomaster

Vanderneer, and present my daughter aud

a guest who hath done me infinite service, to your

notice," exclaimed Flors, rising to welcome him.

But I assure you it is. — A fair morning to

thee, gentle Agnes. — Ha I Quintain Matsys !" he

cried suddenly, as his eye encountered the form of

the young smith. " I am glad to meet thee in

all places." He extended his hand as he spoke,

and shook Quintain's hand warmly.

Thou knowest this youth?" said Flors, with a

little surprise.

Know horn," iterated the burgomaster, "aye,

to my happiness, Flors ; this youth saved roy

daughter Adeline from the hands of the accursed

villain Otho. Dost thou think I can ever forget

horn, Flora ?"

No, no," returned the painter, with a chuckle.

No, no, truly no ; nor I. He hath a notable

way with horn of interfering in behalf of oppressed

damsels ; I doubt not neither thee nor thy pretty

daughter Adeline will forget horn ; he is a likely

youth — a likely youth — shell not forget horn I'll

be sworn. Ha ! Ha I"

True, true," returned the burgomaster, evidently

listening with impatience, and as evidently

not understanding what Flors said ; " but for the

matter on which I sought thee, a word in thine

ear ; it is of vital importance to thee — this way.

I prithee excuse me," he added, turning to Agnes

and Quintain, and as he spoke he led Flors to the

farther part of the room. Quintain was thus left

tete-astute with Agues, a matter very pleasing, but

of which he scarcely knew how to take advantage.

A strange thoughtfulness had crept over her features

since the entrance of the burgomaster, which

reminded Quintain of the change in her countenance

which had taken place in the cathedral, when he

mentioned his name there to her. Her face had

been dressed in smiles ; an expression of exceeding

gratification played over it and remained there

during the first part of bis visit, until Flors mentioned

his design of wedding her only to a painter,

but then the alteration in the expression was not

so decided as when the burgomaster spoke of the

rescue of his daughter. Quintain could not but

observe it, nor perceive it without surprise ; she

turned her eyes from his enquiring and earnest

gaze and for a moment neither spoke ; but in someway

— neither knew how — the hand of Agnes

found its way into that of Quintain, and there it

rested, giving sweet emotions to both. Our hero

was the first to find a tongue, but he used it with a

gentleness, as if he feared it should find an echo.

Anything served to commence the conversation,

because the most important subject may be led

through the most trifling observation. In the

present instance it occurred ; a mere expression

brought up the name of the burgomaster then in

in the room, and that of his daughter naturally

followed. It did not strike Quintain as anything

singular that Agnes should ask if the maiden was

fair — very fair ; if beautiful in form, in manner

gentle and amiable ; it never struck horn that his

answer might be of importance to himself, and

therefore, with the generosity of youthful enthusiasm,

he praised the maidens eyes, her shining

hair, her white skin, her graceful form, her sweet

manners, and tender disposition. He found, when

he had concluded his panegyric, that he had by no

means chased away the sad thoughtfulness which

sat so heavy on the fair brow of his too attentive

listener ; he deemed it strange, but arrived at no

discovery of the cause ; he fancied — rather unwisely,

and certainly inexperienced — that he

had got a famous theme to enlarge upon ; he believed

that if Agnes heard horn praise the burgomaster's

daughter so warmly, she would naturally

understand how very — very high she herself must

be in his estimation. It never crossed horn that

she might think to the contrary. Further and

further he pursued this theme, with the laudable

intention of working round the subject so as to

make Agnes thoroughly understand that, much

as he might think of others, there were none living

of whom he thought so fondly, so dearly as her,

but he was too long in accomplishing it. He arrived

at the end of a long eulogy upon the beauties,

the virtues, and accomplishments of the fair

Adeline Vanderneer, given with sufficient earnestness

to make an indifferent, much less an interested

listener, believe he was deeply, desperately in love

with her, when a sudden and angry exclamation

burst from the lips of Flors, which gave an abrupt

but decided finish to their conversation.

1 will not, Vanderneer," he cried, in tones of

excitement — " I will not, by Heaven I I have

done no wrong, I am conscious of having committed

none, and I will not basely fly from the tyranny

of any power when I know myself to be innocent."



"Be advised, Flors — be advised ; and by one

who esteems and honors thee," interrupted Vanderneer

urgently. " I would not counsel thee to

aught dishonorable — I do but advise thee to avoid

this arrest, and appear with thy friends when the

trial is named. Trust me, wc shall make a formidable

body in court, and they will not dare to

unjustly judge thee."

Still be the consequence what it may," returned

Flors, " I will not fly, and by flying tacitly

acknowledge myself to have been guilty of their

villainous charge."

No, no," interrupted Vanderneer, " all who

know you will hold you innocent, and justified in

escaping from the walls of a prison, within whose

precincts thou hast no right to be thrust, even fora

moment ; thou knowest there is no evading an

arrest but by flight — thou knowest, wrongfully or

rightfully charged, you will be carried to a dungeon

and there imprisoned until thought tried, and

if proved innocent, which you must be, what redress

will you have for the wretchedness experienced

by you on waiting to meet the charge

infamously brought against you ?"

It matters not, Vanderneer," replied Flors

positively ; I appreciate the motive of thy advice,

I thank thy kindness, I esteem thy friendship, but

1 cannot follow thy counsel. To fly from the consequences

of any accusation, however unjustly

preferred and sustained, is in my opinion an indirect

acknowledgement that it is not wholly untrue.

Now Ido assure thee, by my soul ! that lam guiltless

in thought or deed of any such charge as thou

mayest is made against roe, and I will not so far

wrong my nature as to refuse meeting whatever

may be brought against roe with an unflinching

front and just indignation. Let them come ; let

them break into the sanctity of my dwelling and

drag me hence as a common wretch guilty of

some atrocious crime, and plunge me into their

most loathsome dungeon ; let them do this and

fail, as they shall, in substantiating their villainous

accusation, I swear by St. Luke ! the next arrest

they launch against me shall have some good foundation

for its issue."

■ For the love of Heaven I dear father, what

Is the meaning of thy words ?" exclaimed Agnes

with apprehension, having with Quintain heard the

foregoing colloquy in great surprise.

Nothing — nothing of much consequence,"

observed the burgomaster hurriedly ; " there is

little need of alarm. I have heard some news

which threatens thy father's comfort for a short

Time, and rather than he should be troubled and

annoyed by it, I would have horn quit Antwerp fora

few days — that is all."

•' There is something terrible about to happen,"

cried Agnes, clasping her hands with alarm, " I

am sure there is — I can see it in thy grave faces.

Tell me — tell me, I implore you, what danger is

this which threatens to affect my father's safety."

Why it is this, Agnes — this, my child," cried

Flors, with a sudden burst of angrily excited feelings,

"I am accused by some atrocious, lying

knave — some accursed slave, who sells conscience

so much per gold piece, of treason to the State.

Treason ! I who never stir from the society of

my child and my easel — I, who think not, care

not, for the turmoil, the intrigues, the pandering

hollow-heartiness of courts or its sycophants;

I who never uttered a word upon scarce a subject

but my beloved art or the poets ; who — and perhaps

shame to me for it. — have not interfered with,

or spoken of the oppressed people, save to render

what poor assistance my purse would enable me,

or to speak occasionally a sorrowful sentence respecting

them. And forsooth, because I have lived

as secluded as a monk, entertaining neither court

knave, or honest citizen, I am to be basely accused

of treason, aud dragged to a prison a 9 a thief and

murderer."

Oh, no, no, dear father," cried Agnes with affright,

" they will not dare to take thee. Ah I

good burgomaster, you have power and friends —

you will not let horn be dragged to so horrible a

place. He is innocent — I will tell the cruel judges

so, upon my knees I will tell them — do not let horn

be taken, I implore you do not."

I wish horn to fly my dear maiden," returned

the burgomaster kindly ; " there is yet time — a

day must be fixed for his trial, and then he can be

attended by such a body of friends as shall ensure

horn justice."

I will not fly from the myrmidons of justice,"

returned Flors proudly, " though they bring my

head to the block. No ! lam guiltless of wrong

to man or monarch ; I will not for the sake of a

few weeks, months, or years, as it may be, wretched

confinement— or even for life — wear the semblance

of a guilty man. It shall never be said that

Michael Flors, who till now has borne an untainted

reputation, did ever shrink through fear from

aught that man could say or do against him.

Burgomaster, I am resolved "

No thinking man will hold an evil thought

against thee," said Quintain, advancing, " if thou

shouldst refuse to place thyself into the hands of

coarse, unfeeling knaves, whose pastime is jesting

upon the agonies, they witness, of those they drag

from peaceful homes and thrust into cells, the

very thoughts which, invests the soul with horror.

If thou wilt trust thyself to my guidance, I will

take thee to a spot where thou wilt have comfort

and safety — where, even if the officers of the law

may trace thee, they will not dare to attempt thy

removal."

Thy offer is kind, Quintain," returned Flors

in a calmer voice than he had used hitherto ; " but

thy advice fails to move me ; the unthinking people

predominate in the world ; the best character

has been blasted by the careless word of an unthinking

person. Had wc nought but the opinions

of sensible people to deal with, there are may actions,

simple in themselves but liable to be misconstrued,

which wc should not be so tenacious

respecting, as wc are ; there is more to be feared

from the hasty estimate of a weak mid and a

tattling tongue, than the evil you would wish me

to avoid by flight. Heartily I thank thee, but I

am resolved. Here I remain, and if tom from

my dwelling, I look to the honor, the honesty,

and the hatred of oppressive injustice dwelling in

the bosom of those fellow citizens whose principles

all men must acknowledge with reverence."

And you shall have it Flors if there is a true

heart in Antwerp," cried the burgomaster.

There are true hearts," exclaimed Quintain

with much earnestness, " and if thou süfferest a

long imprisonment, I will disown my native city

and all it contains."

Agnes, despite her father's determination,

urged horn with every argument, tears and entreaties

could assist, to fly ; but he was deaf to there

all aud she sunk weeping upon his breast, overcome

with a horror which nearly deprived her of

her senses. He was proof even against her agony ;

he would not suffer principle to sink under personal

emotion, and when Vanderneer found this,

he exclaimed —

Well Flors, since your determination is irrevocably

taken, 1 cannot exactly say I quarrel with

it, though I would willingly spare you the discomfort

which must necessarily ensue. However, my

influence shall, in every way, be exerted for you

so as to render your sojourn as short as possible,

and your redress as complete. I will quit thee

now, for to be seen with thee will be more calculated

to do thee harm than good, as I am marked

out as one of the disaffected, and certainly with

more truth than thou — but of that anon. If thy

fair daughter should need a home during thy absence,

mine is at her disposal,"

Agnes returned, through her tears, a respectful

but decided negative. Vanderneer was a little

surprised, but did not urge the point when he perceived

how absolute her rejection was ; he spoke

but a few words more to Flors, advising horn how

to act, and then, grasping Quintain's hand, he said —

I must see you, my young friend, in this matter

— thy aid will be all important ; call upon me

this evening ; if I should be from home my

daughter will entertain thee until my return ; she

will be glad to see thee thou knowest." As he

concluded he hurried from the apartment ; as he

disappeared, Quintain said to Flors —

You will permit me to stay till after the arrival

of your expected guests ; 1 should feel to have

violated a duty if I were to quit you now."

I thank thee, my good youth ; I shall be right

glad of thy presence," returned Flors. "My tender

but weak child here may need some consolation

and assistance," he added in a low tone, but not

so low but that Agnes heard it, and said with a

passionate tone which astonished both nota little —

No, dear father, no, no 1 I would be with

thee alone. Indeed I would rather be alone with

thee." She repeated the words with almost vehemence.

A burst Uke this was most unexpected,

particularly by Quintain, and he could not help

feeling bitterly pained, as he saw too plainly that

he was particularly desired to withdraw, and by

her. To master his feelings at this blow to his

hopes he felt to be next to impossible, and the

change in his voice was visible even to Flors,

as he exclaimed —

I should be loth to intrude where nay absence

was required ; or offer consolation which could

even indirectly be undesired. I proffered my service

in the warmth of an impulse, and if I have

overstepped the distance between us as comparative

strangers, I pray your pardon, and, with the

best wishes for your safety, beg permission to

retire."

The change in his voice in an instant told Agnes

she had wounded Horn, and he had barely concluded

crc she raised her head from her father's

breast, and, trying to smile through her tears, she

held out her hand to him.

"pray forgive my petulance," she exclaimed

with much earnestness ; "my father's danger

makes me forget what is due to his guest — and —

and to horn who has done so much in the service

of one who has little or no claim upon his lea —

sympathy. 1 entreat you to remain and shield

my father from injury, and to pardon my rudeness

to you."

In truth, you said that in time, Agnes," exclaimed

Flors gravely ; " I have never thought or

spoken to thee unkindly, and in a moment Uke this

should regret deeply to have occasion, but hadst

thou not repaired the thoughtless speech with

which thou didst wound our young friend, I should

have found a harsh word upon my tongue I can

assure thee." , •; .

Quintain took Agnes' hand and pressed it; his

hand was pressed in return, and, with the elasticity

of youthful hopes, the remembrance of her unlooked

for unkind speech passed from his memory.

Before he could utter a word, a violent knocking

was heard at the outer door ; some rude voices

were heard below and a scuffling of feet took place;

then a single footstep was heard flying rapidly up

the stairs, the door flew open, and Bertha rushed

into the room, the picture of fright. In a voice

struggling with fear and excitement she exclaimed

—

Soldiers — soldiers below — say they have

come for master— wouldn't let them up — locked

the inner door and kept them out — vowed they'd

break it open — They say they want you, sir ; they

know you are here, and they will have you. Oh !

mercy upon us 1 what is to be done ?"

Let them come up, Bertha," said Flors, seating

himself with an air of firmness in his chair.

Mercy on us ! you will not let them take

you," cried Bertha, with a countenance of horrified

astonishment.

Do as I bid you, Bertha," replied Flors calmly,

open the door, and tell them if they seek me I

am here : return quickly, girl, dost thou not hear

them forcing the door. I would not have the

rascals think I shun them for a second — open the

door to them."

"I would rather claw their ugly faces to bits,"

replied Bertha, bursting into tears and moving

slowly and reluctantly to fulfil her masters orders.

The battering and wrenching which those

without were essaying upon the door, however,

hurried her steps, and with no very pacific greeting

she removed the bolts and gave the desired

admittance. The leader of the soldiers addressed

her in familiar terms, and received a very surly

reply ; he gave her a chuck under the chin and

in return obtained a blow upon the face, which

enraged horn mightily. He attempted no further

familiarity, but learning that the roan he sought,

was in a chamber above, he resolved to repay on

the master the insult he had received from the

servant. He sprung up the stairs followed by

his people and made a very unceremonious entrance

into the room, and, looking round, he honored

Agnes with a stare which made Quintal's blood

boil and every nerve quiver with a desire to fling

horn down the stairs he had that moment ascended.

Nothing was, however, said, until the fellow removed

his insolent gaze from the affrighted

maiden, and then he produced a warrant, and fixing

his eyes upon the painter, he said —

Mynheer Michael Flors !"

That is my name," returned the old man

coldly and proudly. " What would you with me,

that you thus rudely make yourappearancehere?"

I attaint thee in the name of the Emperor

Freiderich for high treason," returned the soldier,

again fixing his gaze upon Agnes, from whom he

only removed it to encounter the gleaming eye of

Linton MAT3YS Professing AN OATH TO TUB BLACKSMITHS.

'*

.A

m

•*'A

*"i*'l . k ■

■ !■•' ' • •

/

.'.■ » • •■" Ja.

A

Quintain. At first he smiled at it sneeringly, but

there was an expression flashing out of it that

chased away his smile and made horn uneasily

withdraw his eyes and fix them once more upon

the painter.

The Emperor Freiderich I" ejaculated Flors

with surprise. " Has it come to this ? What if

I deny the fact, and refuse to accompany you ?"

ho subjoined.

Then will it be my duty to seize you and drag

you before the council who are now assembled for

the summary disposal of such rebels as thou,"

returned the man, advancing for the purpose of

putting his alternative intersect. Agnes shrieked,

and falling at her father's feet clung round horn

with agony ; she implored horn not to quit her —

entreated the soldier to spare him. He replied

only with a contemptuous jeer, and was about

rudely to lay his hand upon Flors, when Quintain

thrust horn back ; and that with little ceremony.

"It lies not within the compass of your duty

to seize any one unless they refuse to accompany

you," he said, with that calm, cool demeanour,

which betokens far more resolution than passionate

exclamations. " Stay your hand, and degrade

not this good man with its weight until it is imperatively

demanded of thee."

Who art thou, who dares to interfere with the

officers of the Emperor?" exclaimed the fellow,

frowning.

1 am what I seem," returned Quintain coolly,

"a citizen of Antwerp. I interfere not with the officers

of the Emperor but when they exceed their

duty, and I would interfere with the Emperor

himself did he overstep any path beyond which I

thought it were not his province to tread."

You talk treason, boy !" returned the soldier

rudely. " Were I you, I would be careful of my

tongue for fear of its being whipped out with a

dagger."

"I would have thee apply thine own counsel

to thyself ; such a boy as I might bring a better

man than thou to his knees," quickly answered

Quintain, and then, without waiting for the insolence

he saw struggling to pour into his ears, he

said, " By what authority do you attaint Michael

Flors of high treason ?"

What is that to thee ?" replied the soldier ina

rage.

"Simply this," returned Quintain ; "that a single

word from me will bring a dozen or so stout

fellows to my side, and then thou wouldst have

desperate work to save thine ears instead of taking

the prisoner thou dost claim. Moreover, dost

thou know there is a law which permits no person

to be made prisoner unless the warrant be displayed

which authorises their capture ?"

a And have I not displayed it ?" exclaimed the

soldier with a sneer. " Where are thine eyes ?

canst thou read ? if thou canst, behold the signature

of the emperor himself." He pointed as he

spoke to a signature close to which the imperial

seal was affixed. "Art thou fool enough to

doubt that?" he added, as he saw Quintain peruse

it with eagerness. It was too clear to dispute,

and with a sigh our hero turned to Flors, and

said —

It is too true."

Agnes fainted at his words, and Quintain sprung

forward to support her. A small chamber bell

was rung violently, and Bertha, who had with

pardonable curiosity been listening at the door,

instantly made her appearance. She filled the

air with lamentations on perceiving the senseless

state of her young 'mistress, but the old painter

checked her outcries. He kissed his daughter

fondly, passionately ; and then bade her attendant

bear her to her chamber. He was obeyed,

and as she was borne out of the room he turned

aside to dash a tear from his eye. He erected

his head proudly, and then said —

I am ready to attend you wherever your duty

bids you lead me, but I now here, in my own

house, and at any and all places, solemnly deny

the justice and truth of the attaint, vouching before

God my innocence, and attend you quietly,

only because I know myself to be free from the

charge laid against mc. Were it otherwise, a

stronger power than thine and that of thy myrmidons

should be needed to tear me hence."

Thou dost wisely to render thyself quietly,"

returned the man. " Follow me, my orders are

to lead thee bcfoie the council without delay."

Quintain wished much to accompany horn, but

Flors would not permit it ; he begged horn to stay

and give such consolation to his daughter as she

might require, and when she became sufficiently

composed to be lest, then he would thank horn if

he would follow and ascertain the fate the council

thought fit to fix upon him. Quintain promised

faithfully, and, wringing his hand, he accompanied

the soldiers from the apartment. The whole

event had been so unexpected and sudden, that

Quintain had scarce time for reflection ; but a few

minutes alone sufficed to determine horn in the

path he thought necessary pursue, and at every

hazard he resolved it should be done. His reverie

was disturbed by the sudden entrance of

Bertha, who said hastily —

Old dame Gretchen has just come, and she

tells me she tbutaks there is something wrong in

the arrest of dear master, for she saw, and she is

always prying and poking about, two men, as the

soldiers reached here, point out the house, and

heard one of there, who wore a long cloak, say

• Never mid what resistance the daughter makes

with her sighs and groans, or anybody else ; stick

to the Emperor's signature, that will frighten

everybody, and you'll have no difficulty to get

horn away ;' and when they marched up the steps

his companion pointed after them and said, ' Ita

good trick, and that's the fellow to manage it

well." She waited like an old fool till they were

gone, and then she hobbled up to tell me or

young mistress."

How is your mistress ?" asked Quintain,

eagerly.

She is better," returned the Abigail, but she

Is crying dreadfully. I have sent for Mynheer

Von Hetter, the physician ; he will attend to her

better than any one else ; but hadn't you better

see about dear master? If he's carried away

wrongfully, it's a bitter shame."

1 will quickly overtake horn," replied Quintain,

and if foul play has been done, woe unto horn

who has attempted it ; make my kindest respects

to your mistress and tell hers I go to seck her

father, aud if I live, many hours shall not elapse

crc she embrace horn once more."

** Oh ! what a kind-hearted, dear, good-looking

young man you are," cried Bertha, with unfeigned

delight. " How happy it will make dear miss

Agnes. Oh ! if you only bring master back again,

how I shall lov — like you, aud I know my young

mistress will not be far behind roe ; and if her

good graces are not worth having, pray what in

the world for a nice-looking young roan should

there be?"

Quintain smiled, and reiterating his promise he

hastened to the hall of justice, and there learned

that the council had been held at the private residence

of the Baron Hainault. Away he flew,

auguring the best for Flors in being beneath the

roof of a noble who bore so good a character as the

baron. Upon his arrival there he saw the seneschal,

whom he had before seen when seeking the

baron on the fair Meta's account. He addressed

horn in a few hurried words, and learned with

astonishment the council had been held by the

count Idenberg ; that baron Hainault was not yet

in Antwerp ; and the prisoner, who had been

summarily convicted, had been carried to a tower

which stood upon the right bank of the Scheldt,

and was of great strength. It had formerly

been built as a watch tower, but for many years

had been disused until lately, when it bad been

repaired by the count Idenberg, and the first use

be made of it was to incarcerate Michael Flors.

Quintain knew it well ; a smile passed over his

features as he heard the description, and with

brief thanks he hasted away. His feet went

swiftly aud untiringly, and soon carried horn to

the outskirts of the city. Upon the banks of the

river, which flowed adjacent, stood a cluster of

buildings, and to one of these he directed his

steps. By the clink of hammers upon the anvil,

the roar of a forge, and similar indications, it was

plain these buildings were smithy's ; the centre

one of the group was the largest, and from this

place sounds of merriment, in the shape of rude

songs, accompanying the ** clink and fall" of the

hammer, freely issued. Quintain paused not to

listen but entered hastily, and as his foot touched

the threshold the singing ceased. The rude

shouts of a dozen men gave horn a rough but

hearty welcome.

I have more work for you," said Quintain,

when the uproar had a little subsided.

Wc are perfectly satisfied with what wc have

in hand," said one swarthy, sturdy fellow ; "a

month or two will not see us through it, and wc

don't work like priests counting their beads after

a hearty dinner."

Thought as ready for work as a lazy priest

upon a full stomach," replied Quintain, quickly,

or thou wouldst not fear to look it in the eyes

when it glared upon thee ; however, the work I

have for thee is not for the anvil, though it maybe

for the hammer. Who was he who said some

short time past, that, were a noble to throw a

friend of his, or relative, innocent of crime, into a

dungeon, he would not let his hammer rest until

he had made a hole big enough for horn to creep

out?"

That was I, master Quintain," exclaimed a

tall, brawny-looking fellow, whose huge limbs

would have well fitted horn for a model of Hercules,

" and I repeat it now, and will here, or

anywhere."

Supposing, Heinrich, a friend of thine were

similarly situated, wouldst thou lend horn thine

arm to help his friend out of the prison into which

he had been unjustly cast?"

« Would I not ?" returned Heinrich. "My

friend is ray second self ; he has a rightful claim

upon my help and aid in all things, and at all

times. What is stirring, master Quintain, that

you ask this question of me ?"

What if I have a friend who has been upon

a base, false accusation, made to cover some vile

Purpose, thrust into a cell as though he were

some foul murderer?"

'* Why, master Quintain, an' thought the true

heart thou hast ever shewn thyself to be, thou

wouldst not let thine arm rest idly by thy side

and he in a dungeon ; and as a single hand lacks

strength sufficient to release horn, why here s

mine to help thine, and may it wither bone and

sinew if it fails to do its best in behalf of thy

friend!"

And here is mine," cried the man who first

addressed Quintain.

And mine, and mine," cried the rest of the

men in the smithy, who, with eager curiosity,

vividly displayed in their rough swarthy countenances,

crowded round our hero, who saw in

their knitting brows and the ready offer of their

aid, assistance which would go far to carry the

object at which he aimed. With a glad heart and

a proud smile he thanked them. While he was

yet engaged in doing this, one of the men stepped

outside the door and blew a blast upon a horn ; it

had the effect of bringing the men from all the

smithies round. The sound of the hammer

ceased, and that of hurrying footsteps took its

place. Speedily was the hut in which Quintain

stood thronged with stalwart fellows, each looking

enough to cope with half a dozen of the general

ran of their fellow creatures. There was a mvr-

mvr of tongues presently, which in some measure

drowned Quintain's voice, for these men were

anxious to learn for what purpose they were

summoned ; but when they ascertained it, they

gave a shout, and declared themselves ready to

break through any impediment to set the prisoner

free. In a few brief and rapid words Quintain disclosed

to there the struggle which was gradually

approaching between the citizens and the nobles ;

he enlisted their sympathy on the side of their

fellow-townsmen, but was still so guarded in

what he uttered as not to give an opportunity fora

thoughtless exclamation from any indiscreet

spectator to endanger the cause. As he concluded

his address, which, while it never went

beyond their understanding, appealed directly to

their hearts, he was rewarded with a burst of

earnest applause, and sternly expressed determinations

rose on all sides to join heart and hand in

upholding the cause, or perish with it. As it was

the custom at this period, and indeed at every

period from the remotest ages to the present

times, to ratify these acts of association by an

oath, Quintain prepared to tender it, observing, to

the full, another custom, which has not comedown

to the present day in any other fashion than

as a record. To the forgers of iron, the most

useful, and in every sense of the word the most

valuable metal to us existing, the anvil was looked

upon as a deity ; there was not a smith, from horn

who fashioned the choicest rings of an impenetrable

hauberk, or the most admirably tempered

blade, to the mere elder of a bar of iron, who

did not believe this implement to be invested with

a spirit — one which possessed the attributes of

good and evil in equal proportions ; who had the

power of endowing the weapon, or the steel habiliments

fashioned upon its shoulders, with invulnerability

; or, like the famed wild huntsman of

the Hartz mountains, whose seven bullets, possessed

of supernatural qualities, were " six to go

true, the seventh askew," could render the weapon

or sheet of mail constructed under its auspices,

invincible to all foes but one. Many were the

wild and rude chaunts sung by the superstitious

smith during the operation of forging ; strange

and mysterious were the charms employed as the

iron was welded, and earnest were the adjurations

as the sparks flew from the metal at every blow

of the hammer to the presiding spirit, to infuse

into the steel the qualities which are most desirable

in such implements. The anvil was the

household god of the smiths of that and an earlier

age ; it was reverenced, worshipped ; it was their

attesting spirit, invoked in their labors ; their

patron in the smithy, the sant by whom they

swore ; it was their pagan idol which, as wealthier

men, and feeling as then they felt, they would

have set up in their high places and bowed their

sturdy necks humbly before ; it was the ruling

principle which governed and guided all their

labors and the produce of their toil ; the spiritual

essence, which, though not actually tangible, had

a presence almost as palpable as the iron image

itself, and in their rude but fevered imaginations,

was second in power only to the Great Being to

whom they owed their existence. Quintain Matsys,

bredamongthem,of a nature partaking strongly of

enthusiasm, bred in all the rigid superstitions of

his land, his faith, and his brawny companions,

was scarcely less imbued with this wild belief in a

presiding spirit than those around him. He had

sung the strange charms as he worked his iron ;

he had appealed to the mysterious spirit when

fashioning the sword, which for truth and temper

should vie with the renowned Damascus blade;

had chaunted the mystical rhymes when shaping

the glittering and impenetrable panoply formed to

turn aside spear or sword ; and now, when he

had an undertaking, which in its effects might

involve so much, the earnest desire for an assistance

which should make success certain, naturally

flung his mid upon his superstition, and in tendering

an oath to those who had promised at all

risks to aid horn, he called upon the spirit whom

he knew they all feared, to hear and ratify their

oath. He placed his right hand upon the anvil,

and raised his left with an extended palm towards

heaven, and then tendered the oath in the

strongest words he could employ. Heinrich and

his comrade each raised their right hands, and

their voices might have been heard above all the

others in responding to it. The vow included

the devotion of time, strength, and skill, at all

personal risks and hazards, to the liberation of

the prisoner, as an act of duty upon the part of

those who termed themselves ' predecessors,' because

he was the victim of oppression ; and also

their determination to uphold the rights they

had, as citizens and freemen, above three hundred

years enjoyed, and to which they had risen from

their state of vassalage, fought for and gained.

Quintain had included the latter portion in the

oath, because he shrewdly surmised the act in

which they were about to engage would, in all

probability, precipitate the anticipated collision

between the nobles and the people, and rightly

judged there could be little harm in giving those

whose services would be most important, an

inkling of what was likely to come to pass.

When the vow had been taken, all were impatient

to know where the scene of action would

lay, and when they should be called upon to

repair to it.

<' Few of you I deem," replied Quintain, with a

smile, " need much time for preparation or reflection

; few of you will require many hours to

calculate the chances of danger and the best

means of avoiding it. I hope to-night to be

with you, and lead you to the spot which encloses

my friend within its unfriendly walls, and conclude

that when I arrive I shall not hear a voice

exclaiming his notice is too short, he is unprepared

; if any such there be, he can remain

behind, and can as well be spared."

A mvrmvr of assent followed this announce'

rent, and Heinrich said readily —

Wc are ready now to follow you, if it be necessary

; or shall be as ready to-night as now.

Daylight may bring us more fear, but will not see

us give an inch more ground than will the eyes of

night ; our order will be to advance, and strong will

be the armour or the door which keep our sledges

from picking out our path. I have not a weak arm

for a day at the anvil — it will not lose a jot of its

strength at a night's sport in breaking a passage

into the jaws of a prison holding an oppressed

man, whose wrongs cry out for all true men to

work his freedom ; and in saying thus much for

myself, I am only speaking for all here."

A shout of approval followed his speech, and

Quintain, after uttering his warm acknowledgements

of their friendly intentions, added —

I must quit you now, for I must arrange the

manner of our procedure, and a battle reconnoitering

will be of service ; return to your work as

though nought bad happened, or was likely to

happen, for an open ear of a prying knave might

render our best efforts unavailing."

A prying knave had best not shew his eyes

here," observed Heinrich. " They should fail to

shew horn the path homeward an' he did."

This observation found a very general echo

among the bystanders, and a sudden scrutiny took

place among them which, however, ended without

unkenneling any intruder With a few words to

strengthen their present resolve, to name the hour

he would be with them, and to invest them with a3

much of his own enthusiasm as earnest expression!

might accomplish, he quitted the place aud advanced

direct to the river-side.

He wandered along its banks in the direction of

Antwerp, and after a short perambulation he observed

a man busily employed cleaning out his

boat. He accosted horn, and, offering a gratuity,

was accommodated with a seat in the little vessel,

to be carried whither he should himself direct

As the boat glided on its way, our hero looked

with an air of indifference upon the buildings of

the city as he passed them ; he heeded not the

vast number of vessels which were lading and un-lading

in front of the many warehouses lining the

banks of the Scheldt. Boats passed and re-passed

horn without obtaining a glance ; his thoughts

were in another channel. The incidents of the

morning passed in review before horn, and raised

up thoughts within horn which made horn proud

and elated ; not but what he could sympathise

with the agony of both Flors and Agues at their

separation, and the manner of it, but then it opened

a path for horn which, a few minutes before the

arrest of the old man, he had fancied, with a bitter

heart, was dead to horn for ever. He did not attempt

to deny to himself that be loved Agnes, and

that devotedly, passionately ; he stayed not to ask

himself how this had been so suddenly accomplished,

although he might have found au answer

in the romantic situations in which they had been

thrown together, which were sufficient to create

an interest in horn for any one ; and to have one's

interest aroused in favor of a maiden, aud that one

young and lovely, is to find a readier path to love

than any other. Still he did not seek to know

why he loved her — it was enough for horn to know

she was worthy of his love, that she had obtained

it ; and it rested only for horn to kindle a similar

feeling in her heart. To accomplish this was a

task which he acknowledged to himself would be

one of difficulty, for so high was she in bis estimation,

that a series of actions worthy of praise from

all the world could only, he felt, qualify horn for

receiving her favor. He would rather have obtained

her love through her admiration of his

abilities than through her gratitude, yet that path

held out such pleasing prospects that he could not

help, with a species of felicity, hugging the chance

which was now open to horn, of obtaining it by

the release of a father whom he well knew she

considered with the deepest and dearest affection.

(There was, however, a source of gratification in

thought that, in earning her gratitude he

should gain some praise for the manner in which

It was done, for it required no ordinary share of

Judgment, as well as danger, to accomplish it. The

watch-tower was guarded well and strongly ; the

fight to obtain possession would be fierce and

deadly, and he resolved to be in the very thick of

it ; for, if he did not fall, the voices of men would

grant horn the praise due to his deeds, and this

would pass from mouth to ear until it should

reach her, and his heart glowed vividly with the

hope that her thoughts would rest upon horn with

the satisfaction that her good opinion was gained

by one who had some claim upon that, as well as

upon her gratefulness. It was a proud thought,

that he might gain her love through his praises,

deserved, being sounded in her ears by the

tongues of others ; yet his aspirations and visions

of glory rested not upon the mere attack of the

watch-tower; but the fight for liberty, which must

sooner or later take place, crossed his imagination,

and presented a field which would satisfy even his

ambition. What visions presented themselves to

horn ! What renown, what honor, what waving

of hands, and what glittering eyes attended his

footsteps I How his heart fluttered with the homage

of thousands, and how it swelled as his eye

turned from the throng and sought her sweet face

to let her see that her smile and praising looks were

more to horn than the worship and adulation of

the whole world. To what height his enthusiasm

might have carried horn, or where stopped, is

doubtful ; but his proud thoughts were disturbed

by an exclamation from the boatman, which he

had with praiseworthy patience uttered at least

half a dozen times before it penetrated the ear of

our hero.

"Do you see yon watch tower ?" he asked,

pointing to one which stood upon the banks of the

Schcld, facing Antwerp. Quintain raised his head

and perceived that he was pointing to the very

spot it was his intent to reconnoitre. He mastered

the sudden emotion of surprise it created,

and with a tone of apathy, rejoined —

I do. Why do you draw my attention to it?"

Merely because an affair has happened which

is likely to make it a little notorious," returned the

boatman. "It hai never before been famed for

anything but its uselessness, but now it is likely

to be great in men's mouths, as being suddenly

levelled to the ground by an outraged people, or

remaining as a monument of villanous injustice."

Quintain resolved to hear further before he acknowledged

his acquaintance with the matter ; he

therefore requested the man to proceed, and relate

to horn the meaning of his remark.

'Tis done, sir, in a few boat's length ;" returned

the boatman. " There's a painter, one

Michael Flors ; you know his name I dare say—

every one knows horn by name, and, that he is a

painter ; he is known for, or, by nothing else ; nobody

ever heard of horn in any other way ; and he

is nothing else, and I'll be sworn does nothing else

for it is well known he likes nothing else. Well,

sir, this painter is accused of treason — treason, sir,

a man that talks about nothing else but his pictures.

Well, sir, he has been convicted by judges,

nobody ever heard of, without being heard, as I

understand, and has been carried there to be never

heard of unless folks do what I'd do."

And what is that ?" asked Quintain.

"Why, have every stone down that kept me

from taking his hand and leading horn to his home,"

replied the man. "It isn't that I care for Flors,

or any other man, but it's the injustice and oppression

of the thing. Ah I sir, there are strong rumors

flying about the city ; it is said that the

nobles want to turn us all into serfs and vassals

again, and that the Emperor Freiderich has issued

warrants to that effect to all the most powerful

nobles. Flors was carried to the Baron Hain-

aunt's castle instead of the hall of justice ; he was

tried by the Count Idenberg and sent to this

tower, which is the Count's. Some one who gained

admittance secretly and heard the examination,

said that the painter was not allowed to utter a

word, and the Count shewed the Emperor's warrant

to justify what he did ; but will he justify it

to the people's satisfaction ? Ah ! young sir, there

will be a deadly struggle between us soon ; wc

are men — the same to God as these nobles, perhaps

dearer to Horn, sir ; for wc have all the toil

and privation and miseries and troubles to bear

here, which they escape ; but may, when wc are

happy, hereafter have to bear heavily upon their

backs. Yet though wc aro mortals alike, born in

the same way, die whether poor or rich, noble

or simple, yet they look upon us and think us no

better than the dogs they hunt with ; and all this,

sir, because it pleased God to make one the son

of a Count, and I the son of a fisherman. Ah !

sir, it was never meant to be, and will not always

be so."

Let us hope not," replied Quintain. " Pull

the boat nearer to this tower ; I should like to see

it closely ; you have raised in me an interest for

it by your story."

The man with a very little exertion, brought

the boat close to the shore on which stood the

tower. Three sailing vessels were close underneath

its walls, and were landing chests. Quintain

enquired of the boatman if ho knew the meaning

of those proceedings, and received an answer

which rather startled him.

Those chests," said the boatman, with a significant

shake of the head, "come from one of

those warehouses yonder ; if they do not contain

arms and ammunition, and this tower is not intended

to command this part of the river, I am no

boatman."

They neared the shore so closely as he concluded

that the boat's bottom grated the shore.

One of the soldiers who were on duty called aloud

for there to retire, and even presented a small gun,

which he carried in addition to his spear, at them.

The boatman uttered a shout of defiance and

would have landed upon the spot, but that Quintain,

who had more important affairs upon his hands

then to suffer himself to be embroiled in a quarrel

of this kind, compelled horn to desist and row horn

across the river to Antwerp. He was obeyed,

but with much grumbling. As soon as they were

out of the soldier's hearing, Quintain asked —

Were you ever in the interior of that tower ?"

Hundreds of times," returned the man ;

"there is not an inch of it I don't know as well as

my own boat. Disguise and build it up as he

will, Count Idenberg couldn't prevent me lighting

upon any spot I chose, as readily as I handle this

paddle."

Describe it to me," said Quintain briefly ; and

with the loquacity he had previously used, the man



man murmured something respecting her inability

to see visitors, he quitted the chamber with the

express purpose of bearing a message to her, but

which he had no intention of delivering. Gaston

Von Wurstwesel entered the chamber immediately

after the disappearance of the seneschal,

aud in a few brief hurried words related that the

Barons niece was immured in her chamber like

a prisoner ; and was pining for liberty, the man

said, like a caged bird. With an impetuosity not

often displayed by the good Baron, he commanded

the man to lead horn to her chamber instantly,

which Gaston did with alacrity ; for be it known,

that the lady attendant was his very dear love,

and as the sympathy of the waiting-woman was

excited in behalf of her mistress, it would not do

for horn to be far behind. Accordingly, having

by her desire watched the seneschal out of the

apartment, he stole in to ask the baron to mist

upon seeing the niece. He, however, saved horn

the trouble by imperatively demanding it. With

alacrity, therefore, as already stated, he led the

way to the suite of apartments dedicated to the

use of the beautiful Lady Meta. These were

quickly reached, and the Baron found his niece

seated listlessly in her chair with an air of pensive

abstraction. Sad, indeed, was her aspect, and his

kind heart was pained to observe in the wan face

she turned towards horn on his abrupt entrance

traces of considerable suffering. With a shriek

of joy, as she recognised horn, she rushed towards

horn and threw herself in his extended arms to weep

her gladness at his presence. Adolf only had accompanied

horn into the room, for Gaston had eagerly

sought, his mistress, to acquaint her with

the success with which bis undertaking had been

crowned.

It was some little time before Meta recovered

from the hysterical fit into which the sudden appearance

of her uncle had thrown her, and Adolf

stood unspoken to. He seemed not to regret this,

for there was an emotion which ran through his

frame at the distress, if so it may be called, she

exhibited, which rendered the command of his

tongue not easy to accomplish. At this juncture

the seneschal made his appearance, and, with considerable

insolence of manner, expressed his surprise

at seeing the Baron and his nephew in his

lady apartment, and at the same time unequivocally

stated, that his lords orders were, no persons

of any description were to be suffered to intrude

upon the privacy of his daughter's chamber but

one person.

And who might that be ?" exclaimed Adolf,

advancing towards him.

The grand Duke Estevan, whom my lord expects

daily to honor horn and my lady with a visit.

You will be doing me a favor, Baron, if you and

your nephew will leave my lady to the seclusion

of her own chamber."

"Adolf," cried the Baron passionately, "fling

me that knave out of the chamber ; if refractory,

hurl horn down the staircase to the ball beneath."

With a promptitude unexpected by the seneschal,

Adolf seized horn by the neck piece, and, with

a strength equally as unimagined by the man, the

young knight hurried horn to the door ; and literally

obeyed his uncle's command by lifting horn

from his feet and hurling horn several yards into

the corridor. The man fell with a tremendous

crash, and lay for a few minutes stunned ; but recovering,

he raised himself from the floor and

crawled away, muttering an oath of revenge.

Adolf quietly returned to his uncle's side, and then

received from the Lady Meta a kind greeting.

There was something in the warm, fervent manner

of her address to horn, and in the fond gaze

with which she regarded horn, that struck the Baron

forcibly with the belief that Adolf was not the

least welcome visitor of the two, and he was glad,

very glad of it ; for his brother had shewn the

young knight, though equally his nephew as the

Baron Hainault' s, the most insulting coldness,

and much would he have regretted had the daughter

exhibited a similar feeling. It did not cross

horn that her father's coldness might have arisen

through a knowledge that the affection which, as

relations, it was natural for the cousins to feel for

each other, had ripened into something warmer ;

he saw no more than the meeting was tender and

affectionate, such as he would have it be ; and felt

that his niece had, by that one act, made a

stronger claim upon his love and his sympathy,

inasmuch as she saw and appreciated the merits

of Adolf, to which Count Idenberg was, or appeared

to be, wholly insensible. He took her hand, which

Adolf had but slowly released, and pressing it,

said, in a kind tone —

My dear Meta, what is the meaning of these

strange proceedings ? tell me all without disguise,

nor fear to find a protector in mc. How comes

it I receive a ring from thee through a youth, who,

in a brief interview, told me thou wert in need of

speedy and effectual aid, but left thee to detail thy

danger ? How list that when I reach this castle,

whose portals ever flew wide at my approach, they

should remain closed, and only give me entrance

aster repeated summoning ?"

My dear uncle," exclaimed Meta, sorrowfully

and apologetically. He, however, interrupted her,

and continued —

Hear all I have to say, my dear Meta, and

then reply. W 7 hat has happened, that a knave

whom, from some unknown cause, save that he is

Never suffer so poor a knave to anger thee,

uncle," interposed Adolf; "he is but as a straggling

briar, which, obstructing our path, wc should

cut from it, without a thought or excited feeling."

"It may be so, Adolf," returned the baron,

'• but the sting of a reptile, even though a reptile,

will wound enough to pain one. Let it pass, and

so to my last question. How list that thought

caged here a very prisoner, with the mockery of

having thy fair limbs unshackled, and the extent

of thy suite of apartments to traverse, making a

show of freedom which is not thine ? Speak

freely, for thought with one who bears for thee

the love of a father, and will not tamely see thee

wronged or coerced to that which thy sense of

right or happiness bids thee shrink from."

"I know, dear uncle, thy love forme," returned

Meta fervently ; ■ from childhood, from the first

hour of recollection, yours was the kind smile

which greeted me, yours the tender words that

fell upon mine ear and taught me how dear affection

was from others. When my father had nota

look to spare roe, your eyes were ever fondly

bent upon me, and your caresses repaid me for

their absence from my father. Child as I was, I

saw, and felt deeply, that you showed me the love

it was his duty to have bestowed, and for you,

dear uncle, the affection was kindled in ray heart

which should have been his ; for had he shewn

me one act, one little act of fondness occasionally,

even though the intervals were long — one small

sign that 1 was his child, his beloved child, and

though unfrequently caressed, still his beloved

child, and not a creature painful to his sight, I

could have loved horn very — very dearly, even as

I love you."

And has he — can he have treated thee thus?"

asked the Baron with surprise and anger. " Thou

thou — so fair, so gentle, so good — thou, his only

child, his only remembrance of one gentle and fair

as thyself, one whom I have reason to know he

loved passionately — oh ! too passionately to have

loved well, to have loved her as she shoidd have

been loved — as — as — " A sudden emotion seized

horn, which he i.i vain endeavored to conceal; a

tear started to his eye, and would cluster in his

eyelid like a glittering gen, though he would fain

it should not have made its appearance. He

turned his head away — one struggle, and his eyes

were dry again. His voice, which had faltered,

grew again firm, and without observing the surprise

with which Meta and Adolf regarded horn,

he continued — " as she was worthy of being loved.

As her child, he should have looked on thee as

the priceless gen of his heart ; for her sake less

than for thine own he should have cherished thee

as a treasure beyond all estimate, and that he has

not done so, tells me more powerfully than any

other evidence, many as have been my misgivings,

that he was all unworthy of her, the possession cf

whose heart might have made the highest and noblest

being on earth proud. Would I had known

this crc now, Meta ; thou shouldst have found a

home with mc. I would have striven to have made

thee feel the loss of one, whose loss can never be

supplied, less than thou must have done. Tush !

I should have known better — I should have known

my brothers stern nature. Motherless as thou

wert, what shouldst thou do in a rude home like

this ? I would I had been as thoughtful for thee

as I love thee, Meta ; by my hopes of happiness

hereafter! thou shouldst have had no earthly cause

for a sigh. Well, it may not yet be too late to

make thee happy — but of that anon. Tell mc.

ray dear child, what is the cause that thought caged

here, and I all but denied — nay, denied, and that

insolently, to see thee ? Wherefore is all this

change ? The castle seems stored with men more

like ruffians of the forest than honest soldiers, and

there are clusters of weapons and mail cleaning

and furbishing in all directions, as though thy father

had resolved to commence some desperate

crusade against a powerful nation ?"

There is some secret expedition on foot," returned

Meta, " but I know not its nature or purpose.

I fear it cannot be good, for the strange

men who fill the hall are rude and savage, much

unlike our old retainers, who have been sent away,

I know not whither. Their wild cries and boisterous

mirth at times terrify me, and since my

father's absence, they have been much worse : at

night they sing uncouth songs, filling the castle

with their uproar ; and at times fight, for I hear

the clashing of weapons, and mad shouts, which

terrify fine almost to death. One of there, whose

aspect was horrible, entered this apartment one

evening, shortly aster my father had left the castle,

and dared to address me with a familiarity which

alarmed me dreadfully — he even seized mc—'

Seized thee ?" cried Adolf, with glittering eyes.

particularly a hound without his noble qualities,

my gentle brother hath in sooth made his seneschal

— a slave who ever fawned and cringed, and

would have licked the dust from my boot as he

would have kissed the hand which cussed horn, how

comes it that this wretch, wont to creep and kneel

before me, should wag a saucy tongue, and beard,

aye, beard me in a hall to which, an' I felt not as a

brother should feel, I can rightfully call mine own ?

'Tis weak in me, that the audacity of such a cur

should chafe me, but, by St. Michael ! I feel my

blood anxious to riot in ray veins, moving me to

have horn tossed from the highest turret into the

moat."

Even so," returned Meta. " I shrieked, and

the faithful Gaston, who was near, came to my

aid."

And what did he ?" exclaimed Adolf and the

Baron in a breath.

"He struck the man to the earth. More I remember

not, for I swooned, and when restored to

consciousness, I found my attendant supporting

mc."

I owe Gaston a guerdon for that service," ejaculated

the Baron, ardently.

And I," murmured Adolf, though with no less

warmth.

This is no place for thee, Meta," exclaimed

the Baron ; " thou shalt to Antwerp with me ;

there thine ears or thy sight will not be polluted

with the presence or the sounds of such base knaves

as these. By the Mass ! it must be a doubtful

cause that makes the hire of such ruffians necessary."



Gladly, most gladly would I attend thee, dear

uncle," said Meta earnestly, " but I fear my father

will not consent to an arrangement which would

bring me so much happiness",

"And why not?" asked the Baron. "He

must know the proximity of such scoundrels must

render the castle an unfitting abode for thee, and

should be glad that an asylum is offered thee

where at least thou wilt be safe and free from the

desecration of thine ears and eyes."

He hath, I fear, other views for me," observed

Meta, mournfully.

And what are they ?" asked her uncle. " Nay,

never fear to tell me," he added, as she turned

her head from horn sadly, "or if 'tis a secret, why

e'en preserve it, nor deem my thoughts less kindly

to thee that thou dost hide it from me."

"1 1 is not a secret, at least to be kept from thee,

dear uncle," she returned, evidently speaking with

some embarrassment, " for it was to be advised by

thee respecting it that 1 wished to see thee ; it is

a matter which hath caused roy disobedience to

my father's will, and that, even though he has

threatened me with a fate to shudder at — even his

withering curse, if I persist in my disobedience."

"How!" cried the Baron, with astonishment

depicted in his face. " How I thou disobedient —

thou, so timid, thou disobedient in the face of thy

father's fiery anger ? By all that is holy ! thou

must have had good cause. What did he demand

of thee?"

That I should wed a noble of his choosing,"

she returned, with faltering tongue ; " one who is

rich and powerful, but one whom I had never

seen."

And thou didst refuse horn ?" said her uncle.

Aye, even though he threatened to kill me,"

she replied with animation, as though the memory

of that exciting scene renewed the firmness she

then displayed.

Methinks, Meta, thou wert hasty," observed

the Baron, gravely, surprise still mastering every

expression of his features ; "it had been as well

hadst thou waited to have seen thy father's choice

crc thou hadst made so determined Jan opposition

to it."

Had I seen horn a hundred times, it would

have made no change in me," observed Meta,

thoughtfully.

And why not ?" asked her uncle. She hesitated

for a moment, looking upon the floor with

blushing embarrassment, and then suddenly, with

something of a proud feeling, she fixed her clear

eyes upon her uncle, and said —

Because, dear uncle, I have given my heart

and plighted my troth to another."

The astonishment of the Baron was by no means

diminished. He was coming to the cause of her

being immured now with swiftness and with certainty.

He looked at his niece with a searching

glance. There was in her fair face an expression

of truth and innocence, and a certain pride mingled

with it, which at least showed that her love

was sincere and that her lover was worthy of it.

So read the Baron as he gazed upon her, and with

that thought strong upon horn he took her hand,

and gently pressing it, as though to sustain the

courage she had evinced in making the declaration,

he said in a kind tone —

You have had so few opportunities of seeing

or conversing with youths upon whom your choice

would be likely to fall, that you must not wonder

I should feel surprise at hearing that which I never

dreamed you had a thought respecting. Well,

well, 1 see I have yet to learn that love waits not

for time nor situation, but comes to those in seclusion

as well as to those who are much abroad.

That you love worthily, I doubt not, still I would

know to whom thou hast given thy heart ; for

trust me, Meta, much experience hath taught mo

many a foul heart dwells under a fair exterior,

even as a rock lies beneath the smooth surface of

the sea, bringing destruction to those who light

upon it. Thou art all innocence, all truth, and

all-confiding in thyself, and, measuring the fair

exterior of another by the virtue of thine own

soul, may be deceived in thy trusting, when there

is no escape but death for the error which affection

has made in thy judgment."

Meta's head once more declined, and she remained

silent in answer to the interrogatory of

her uncle, though, had he turned a glance on the

changing expression of Adolfss countenance, he

might have found an elucidation of the mystery.

He had, however, at that moment, no eyes but for

Meta ; and when he perceived that she was reluctant

to answer his question, he grew graver

then before, though he still preserved the kindness

of his tone.

You do not answer me," he said. " Tell me,

Meta, should the name of horn you love be less

undisguised than the fact of your loving ?"

It is not, dear uncle, that I disguise his name

from an unworthy motive," she said in alow tone,

** for he is all honour, all truth, all nobleness, as

you yourself would own, were Ito name him. I

conceal his name only because I know not how far

in your eyes he might be compromised — "

I were unworthy thy love, dearest Meta," exclaimed

Adolf, with a sudden enthusiasm which

surprised Baron Hainault more than ever, " did I

not feel proud of thy gentle heart in the eyes of all

the world, or hesitate to maintain thee to be above

compeer, with my good spear, against all comers.

I feel too deeply the treasure thou hast, beloved

Meta, conferred upon me, not to be proud to proclaim

to the world how highly I prize a gift the

wealth of kingdoms cannot equal. The fear which

thou hast expressed for me, I have felt for thee ;

it has kept my tongue silent, when it would fain

have made a confidant of my uncle, who felt

pained when observing a change in me which the

fear of losing thee had wrought, and sought to discover

its cause. And, dear Meta, when you have

said thus much to horn, I would take shame to myself

were I not to say, before horn, that I love thee

as truly and as ardently as one being may love

another ; and may I be termed recreant to all that

is honorable or noble — may my weapon fail me,

and my steed throw me, in my hour of utmost need

may my spurs be hewn from my heels — may I

be scouted by the noble, and taunted by the ruffian

— may all that is crushing and maddening to

one who loves unspotted honour as he loves his

heart's best blood, be my doom, if I wrong thee,

forsake thee, fail to love thee to the last as now I

love thee, or lower my spear, while I have life, to

one who would do thee wrong, or holds thee not

as the peerless lady of the world."

The enthusiasm which Adolf felt, displayed itself

in the tone and the impetuous torrent in which

his words burst forth. To Meta they seemed

most grateful, as they seemed also to impart no

little of their fire ; her eye kindled and glowed

with unusual brightness, her check burned, while

her carriage, which sorrow had made humble, became

proud and fitted to her rank. There was

yet more of the woman than of the fond, loving

maiden in her bearing, for, with eyes that looked

the thanks her tongue scarce knew how to utter,

she placed her hands in those of Adolf, and exclaimed,

in the rich tones of exulting happiness —

And should not I be proud too ?"

The Baron looked from one to the other without

speaking — he seemed perfectly bewildered;

bis surprise seemed to have deprived horn of the

power of utterance. He had listened to Adolf

with open eyes and mouth of wonder. He had

heard the rejoinder of his niece, observed her act,

and stood as though he were in a trance. So apparent

was it that the turn this scene had taken

was altogether unexpected, that both Adolf and

Meta observed it. The former immediately said —

Dear uncle, I hope that you are not offended

that wc love each other. I have often heard you

speak of my cousins virtues, as well as of her

charms, and chide me that I lacked warmness in

seconding your opinions ; bidding me wed such a

maid if I could find her, and if I succeeded, to esteem

myself the favorite of heaven, for few such

as her, if any, could be found on earth. I have

found none Uke her, and her I love, heart and

soul. 'Tis long since I made the discovery: I

was yet a boy when I found she had won my

heart. The impulses of boyhood are ever ardent,

and no visions of the future save bright ones rarely

mingle with them. Mine were no less enthusiastic

than others of my age : I loved ray cousin — I

thought only of our future happiness. I sought

and found an opportunity to draw from her a confession

that I held in her heart the place I coveted.

Wc plighted our troth, and for a time — as you

must have seen, dear uncle — the world was an

elysium to mc. But a change was to come. An

accident discovered to Count Idenberg the state

of our hearts. He bade us, in terms I shall never

cease to remember, to forget each other ; he said

he had a husband more fitting for his daughter

than a beggar's brat — "

Death ! said he that ?" interrupted the Baron,

hastily.

Nay, 'twas not the worst he said," returned

Adolf. " But he was Meta's father, and though

he did revile my sainted mother, I held my hand.

I did hold it, though heaven knows alone how I

kept it by my side."

And she his favorite sister — our only sister,"

ejaculated the Baron, with emotion ; but mastering

it, he said, " Proceed, Adolf ; I will hear

thee out, patiently if I can, but I will hear thee.

When he had exhausted every epithet which

could insult me and sting me to rage and shame,

continued Adolf, "he bade me quit his castle,

and never look upon horn and my gentle Meta

more, unless to regard her as a cousin to whom

it would be too great condescension to be suffered

to speak. I know not what I said or did — I defied

horn, and was thrust forth by his retainers."

Thrust forth !" exclaimed the Baron, angrily ;

Base indignity ! thou didst not tell me this —

thou shouldst have told this to mc."

I did not wish to be the means of causing a

quarrel between you," returned Adolf ; " a

breach which perhaps might have been made too

wide ever to fill up. I put my trust in Meta, and

the hope that the good time would come when I

might claim her, either by rank, or by my good

right arm."

And who is the husband for whom Count Iceberg

has destined thee ?" asked Baron Hainault,

addressing his niece. His voice trembled with excitement

as he spoke, in spite of his efforts lo make

it firm. Meta shuddered as she replied—

The Grand Duke Estevan, Prince of — "

Name horn not — name horn not," cried the

Baron, recoiling, with a strong disgust almost

amounting to horror visible in his features. —

Could Count Idenberg be so base as to destine

thee for the arms of an atrocious villain like horn ?

one whose dark deeds have filled his own principality

with sickening horror — a monster who has

made enormous wealth the means of rivalling the

Evil one in crimes too awful to enumerate. It is

impossible thy father could have been so recklessly

wicked."

It is even to Duke Estevan : he made me fall

upon my knees to swear to wed horn, while he held

up my hands to register the oath — one most fearful,

but he failed to extort it ; the very terms of

the oath frighted me into a swoon, and when I recovered

I was in my own chamber. He has said

no more to me upon the subject since, save once,

and that was before his departure. He then bade

me prepare to receive the noble I must look upon

as my future lord, who would come during his absence

— and has he not come?" she added with a

smile.

** True," exclaimed Adolf, fondly, " but not the

lord he has destined for thee. The insolent knave

whom I thrust from the apartment spoke of the

expected arrival of a noble ; wc shall meet horn, I

trust."

Wc will not stay to do it," exclaimed the

Baron. " Meta, thou shalt with me to Antwerp

at once ; wc shall there meet thy father, and there

will I combat this abominable resolution which he

has formed. I will not say I will dispose of thy

hand, but rather than thou shouldst wed Duke

Estevan, I will peril all I hold in lands, in wealth,

in heart."

Dear, dear uncle," exclaimed Meta, throwing

herself into his arms. He embraced her warmly,

and then said hastily —

Don thy veil, and that quickly ; you will not

need more — our journey to Antwerp will be speedy.

Wc will wait thee here."

With a delighted air Meta flew to obey her

uncle, and, when left alone, the old noble took

Adolf by the hand.

Thought my sister's child," he said ; " I swore

to her on her death-bed that I would foster and

protect thee — that I would be a father to thee in

all things ; and I have done my best to keep my

word."

"Right nobly hast thou kept it," returned

Adolf, fervently. " Could my mother's spirit

look down from her celestial abode, a glad smile

of happiness would illumine her pale cheeks to see

how truly thou hast observed thy promise to her." .

"To see thee happy, Adolf, is my dearest

wish," continued the Baron ; " I desire no more

on earth — it is all I look forward to. Thou hast

been with me from thy infancy ; a father could

not love his son more deeply than I thou, my beloved

boy. I feel a strange joy that an attachment

should exist between thee and thy cousin,

for were it uncrossed I am sure it would bring

thee both happiness ; and yet I feel a sorrow that

it is so, for I foresee much trouble and danger,

and even unhappiness, likely to ensue from Count

Idenberg's opposition. I will do my best to gain

his consent to your union, but, Adolf, without it

I will not myself consent to it, unless ensuing circumstances

of a nature I cannot expect induce me

to do so. No point of honor or justice roust be

violated or even infringed, but while they are

preserved you shall have my best aid."

My dear uncle, you have my very wannest

thanks," returned Adolf, "and as you have never

known me consent, however inclination and self

interest might prompt me, to do one act in opposition

to the strictest honor, so shall you see with

my cousin Meta, whom I love with a devotion

surpassing all other feeling, I will under all situations,

maddening or distracting as they may be,

preserve my honor inviolate."

Enough," returned the Baron, wringing his

hand warmly ; " your cousin approaches. Should

any opposition to her departure be offered by yon

saucy seneschal, I would have horn look to his welfare.

I feel in no mood to be thwarted by a knave

Uke unto him."

"He will not dare," returned Adolf ; "he will

not lightly forget his ejectment from this apartment."



Meta at this moment entered, attended by her

maid, who was sobbing bitterly and begging hard

to be allowed to accompany her to Antwerp — a

prayer which her lady readily granted, providing

her uncle consented. As he made no objection

the girl joyfully hurried from the apartment to get

herself in travelling order, promising to join her

mistress in the court-yard. The Baron drew the

lady Meta's arm within his own, and Adolf walking

by her side, they departed. On reaching the

end of the corridor, they met Friederich hurrying

towards them.

Get the horses ready for instant departure,"

said the Baron hastily ; wc would quit the castle

on the instant. If the steeds are jaded, let fresh

ones be taken from the stables."

I am right glad to hear, my lord, that you are

about to leave this place." returned Freiderich ;

I was seeking you to advise it. The inhabitants

of this castle are wondrously altered ; begging

your pardon, Baron, a more complete gang of

ruffians I never crossed in a nobles hall, save

where feuds and marauding were the fashion.

It is with difficulty, I have kept our people from

fighting with them ; taunting may be borne when

'tis a jest from those who have some claim to jest

with one, but to be taunted by such knaves as

these is past a honest soldier's patience. A good

steel, with a fair field and a staunch heart, might

scatter a dozen of there at a time ; they are brawling,

and shouting, and talking about base-born

citizens and the honor of nobles. Pretty rascals

they, truly, to talk of honor in any shape."

The evil, as far as wc are concerned, will be

remedied by our absence," observed the Baron, a

gloom hanging on his brow. " Where are my

people ?"

I have mustered them all in the corridor below,

my lord," replied Friederich, " to keep them

out of harms way."

Do you go first to see to the steeds, and let

the retainers follow me out of the castle," said the

Baron.

Your lordship shall be obeyed," returned

Friederich ; " the steeds will be well enough —

they are too good to be easily jaded. They shall

await your coming in the court-yard."

He turned away as he spoke, and was soon lost

to sight. The Baron gave a significant look at his

nephew, and said, in a low voice, intended to escape

the ear of Meta —

It is well wc are armed."

Adolf bent his head assenting, and laid his

hand upon the hilt of his sword. The sign was

enough ; the Baron said no more, but advanced

quickly forward. When he reached the hall,

which he did without observing his people, who it

afterwards appeared were stationed in a passage

on the opposite side, he perceived the seneschal,

near the door which led into the court-yard, busily

arranging as well as haranguing a troop of fellows,

the same whom Quintain had seen when paying a

visit to the Count Idenberg. The moment the

Baron aud his companions appeared, the seneschal,

who had armed himself with a breast plate and a

steel morion, quitted the troops and hastened to

intercept them. He had a drawn sword in his

hand, and when he saw the Lady Meta, he stood

and made an exclamation of very unequivocal

surprise.

♦

BARON HAINAULT, HIS Nice, AND ADOLPH, INTERCEPTED IN Their Retreat PROM THE CASTLE.

I

Your trooper told me, ray lord Baron," he

said, in a sarcastic tone, which had the effect of

raising the Barons blood mightily, " that you

aud this knight were about to depart ; but he did

not tell me also, tho fair Lady Meta was to accompany

you. I turned out my people to do

you honor, but much I fear I shall need their

service to induce you to leave the lady behind

you." it*

111-mannered slave," cried the Baron, wrath-sully,

"it is scarce seemly in roe to be moved at

thy insolence, but, by the mass I it-is hard to bear

with patience the buzzing of a wasp. Stand out

of mv path, worm ! or I'll crush thee with my

heel." .- -■

I fear, my lord, you would find the worm

turn again," exclaimed the man, whose pale face

displayed the vindictive excitement under which

he labored.

It is the only time the worm does turn, and

then its sting is impotent," said Adolf sternly ;

and added, "hast thou forgotten, knave, that I

flung thee from yon chamber as I would a cub I

had slain?"

" No," said the seneschal, shewing his teeth asa

snarling dog, crc he bites, " no, sir knight, 1

have not forgotten it, nor shall I, easily, until I

am requited."

Dear uncle, be calm, I entreat you," said

Meta earnestly ; and then, turning with an air of

dignity to the seneschal, she said, " Johann, it is

roy pleasure to go forth with my uncle ; retire with

your fellows, or you will learn what penalty my

father exacts for such scenes as this."

By your leave, lady ! I can neither retire nor

must thou go forth, though it bo thy pleasure,"

returned the seneschal, with a tone of insolence,

I know my duty better. It is thy father's orders

that, on no consideration or inducement you

were to be permitted to quit the castle ; and were,

to be seen by no one but your own people or the

Grand Duke Estevan. My lord baron has thought

fit to disable me from keeping one part of my orders

; 1 will take care he does not interfere with

the other."

Slave !" roared tho Baron, passionately, and

would have sprung upon horn, but Adolf held horn

back, and Meta added her entreaties to his to becalm.



Mine be the task to chastise the knave," said

Adolf; and, succeeding in quieting the Baron* he

advanced to the seneschal, who retreated several

steps as he approached, crying out hastily—

** Stand back, sir knight, or the consequence be

upon your own head ; if you attempt to lay a finger

upon me, roy people shall fall upon you aud

your life will be forfeit,".',!* . .•'.", ■•■

"Dog I your threat hath no place in mine ear,"

observed Adolf, still advancing, and drawing his

sword as he did so. ." Stand from before the

path, and give my uncle and the Lady Meta a free

passage, or I'll cleave, thee to the ground. Give

back, thou insolent knave — give back when I bid

thee."

"Not a foot," cried the fellow, summoning

such courage as a desperate effort to appear bold

before his fellows could produce. " Not an inch,

unless the Lady Meta return to her chamber,"

he cried. *.

"Like a gleam of lightning Adolfss sword

flashed through the air. The seneschal raised

his to oppose it, but crc half a dozen blows had

been struck his weapon flew from his grasp.

Adolf seized horn by the throat, which he compressed

till stifledsbriek escaped the man's bps, which

was echoed by one from Meta ; then the young

knight swung the fellow round, and hurled horn

to the earth. He fell heavily. Adolf placed his

foot upon his neck, holding horn there as firmly as

though he had been rivetted to the earth with a

bolt of iron, and elevating his sword to the troopers,

who hurried forward to revenge the fall of the

seneschal, he bade them keep back, or meet the

late of horn who had fallen. At the sight of their

advance the Baron drew his sword, and, in a loud

voice, summoned his own people — who, from

what Friederich had stated, ho supposed to be

near the spot — to the scene of action, which they

speedily obeyed, running with an earnestness

which shewed them to be but too ready to revenge

the taunts they had with difficulty previously endured.

In an instant the hall was one wild scene

of uproar. The retainers of Count Idenberg

were as five to one to those of Baron Hainault,

and seemed bent on destroying their opponents ;

and the tatter were as determined to sell their

lives dearly. In spite of the struggles and screams

of Meta, the Baron, imploring her to remain till

and beyond the reach of the weapons, rushed into

the thickest of the fight. The shouts, the oaths,

and the clashing of the weapons, added to the

piercing shrieks of Meta, echoed loudly by the

hall, soon brought every one, lar and near, in

the building, to the scene of action ', thus every

new corner added to the strength of the I Mvage

retainers Of Count Idenberg, while the chance of

continuing the combat, or even of escaping,

grew, on the part of the. Baron, every moment

less. Still, however, his people fought,

and that with a spirit aud determination which

would have done them credit under any circumstances.

It was extraordinary to see the young

knight Adolf, youthful as he was, standing like a

rock amidst the combatants, blows raining upon

him,andyetglancing off leaving horn unhurt; while

those who received the fall of his weapon bad serious

cause to remember it. Many a groan followed

the clatter of his sword, as it descended

with the swiftness of thought upon the object

aimed at ; many a spear was levelled at his breast,

which his good sword, data blow, severed in twain;

but numbers kept arriving — the combat thickened

shouts, cries, and groans rent the air, and in the

midst of the tumult a tall figure made its appearance

among the combatants. Soon the voice of

the stranger was heard above that of all others;

soon his blows fell with a louder crash than those

of any other ; and then there was a confused cry

mingling with the shouts, and quickly it assumed

the sound of " Frank Merritt I Frank Merritt !"

Voice after voice took up the cry, and repeated it

until the hall echoed with his name. The men

appeared to fight with a fresh enthusiasm when

they knew he was present, and the Barons retainer's

had harder work than ever to stand their

ground, though they rallied round the Baron and

his nephew, and disdained to fly, even to purchase

life. It was strange, and not a little, to his antagonists,

that Count Idenberg's retainers were

those whom Frank Merritt attacked, bidding

them as he did so, in a voice of thunder, desist,

and enforcing his words with blows which fell

with terrific force. So well did he second his exhortations

for a cessation, that one by one the

combatants held their hands. The fight was suspended,

the uproar bushed, as well as it could be,

that his voice might be heard ; and then he exclaimed,

in a voice that penetrated to the hearts

of many as it did to the cars of all —

Put up your weapons, all you who follow the

banner of Count Idenberg, unless he would have

me for a foe. Up with them all, I say. I speak

not lightly, nor punish slightly. Who is he that

holds his weapon still menacingly ?"

He glanced his bright eye around horn as he

spoke, and all the rude retainers he had addressed,

as frightened children before a harsh roaster, did

as ho commanded. Baron Hainault's followers

still held their weapons prepared for attack, but

to there he did not look ; when he saw that he

had been obeyed, he turned to Baron Hainault,

and said —

I am sorry, my lord, that you should be thus

treated beneath this roof, where it should be yours

to command rather than be dictated to. Point

me out the man, my lord, who first heaped this

indignity upon you — trust me, he will not repeat

it."

The seneschal, who laid senseless, having been

trampled under foot by the combatants, was

speedily dragged forth, even before the Baron

could speak ; and as soon as Frank Merritt perceived

horn, he exclaimed —

I looked for no less a knave." He called byname

two of the men who had fought at the bidding

of the senseless seneschal, and bade them

fling the body in the moat; which order they

obeyed with as much alacrity as they had prepared,

in the first instance, to support him. As they

disappeared, Frank again addressed the Baron :

My lord, you would quit this castle with the

Lady Meta," he said ; " I have but just arrived,

and, it seems, in time. Gaston Von Wurstwesel,

whom I met in the court-yard, and who was hastening

to your assistance, has told me all. I have

only to repeat my sorrow that one so noble, and

in all ways so worthy, should have been so villainously

insulted, but theinsulter has paid his penalty.

The people, who were but his puppets, and, therefore,

scarce to be blamed that they did what they

were commanded, will no longer oppose your departure

; they will not dare to do it," he added,

raising his voice, "yet, my lord," he continued,

"crc you go, I would speak a word with you

alone."

Frank Merritt," exclaimed the Baron, " I

thank you for your interposition ; it was most

important, and rendered in such a fashion as a

bold heart may feel proud to hear spoken of. I

know you to stand high in my brothers confidence,

but it is such confidence as I cannot agree with,

and of a character I cannot countenance. There

is a mystery which for the last few months has

hung over this castle which, in veiling motives,

has also degraded characters ; this mystery will

be penetrated crc long, and then let those who

still keep the shadow over them see that the unveiling

brings them not what they look for. I

still render you thanks for the service you have but

now done me, but not seeing any benefit to be derived

in an interview unattended by any one but

ourselves, I must decline it."

I will not insult you so far, Baron Hainault,

by saying you have nought to fear from a conversation

alone with me," returned Frank Merrit;

your smile is enough to answer any such supposition

; and though you doubt roe, seeing no benefit

to be derived from a few moments devoted

singly to roe, still do I repeat, I would speak to

you crc you go, alone."

Again I repeat, I decline it," returned the

Baron haughtily. " I know of nought you can

have to say which you cannot repeat before all—

I wish to hear nothing which all may not hear."

You do, my lord," returned Frank coolly.

A moments converse with you will convince

you what I have to say, is for your ear alone,

and that which you would be far from wishing

should be made known. You must hear me crc

you depart."

Must !" echoed the Baron. " Must !"

Aye, my lord, if you will have it so — must I"

reiterated Frank. " What I have to say concerns

your safety, and not yours alone, but others;

your refusal to hear me will plunge them into

difficulties, from which thou wilt not be able to

extricate them. Wilt thou hear me now ?"

Lead on, I will follow thee to the court-yard,"

returned the Baron believing he saw, in the calm

face and high brow of Frank, an expression above

cunning or deceit. "My retainers, as well as my

nephew and niece, will quit these walls unmolested?"



The knave who dares to raise a hand or wag

a tongue at one, shall meet with a rebuke from me

he will not lightly forget," cried Frank, in a voice

heard by all.

Tis well," exclaimed the Baron. "Move

forward,"he ejaculated to his men, and with Adolf

and his trembling niece, who could not help casting

a grateful look at Frank for ending this fearful

fray, which he noted and seemed to feel

strongly, be passed from the hall into the open

court-yard. While Adolf was busy seeing his

fair cousin safely seated upon the back of a strong

steed, and his own good Nordgestirn ready for

departure, the Baron followed Frank to a retired

part of the quadrangle. As soon as they were

out of hearing, the latter exclaimed —

My lord, I forgive your mistrust of me — perhaps

1 have earned it, but it has ended. Your

brother would now as gladly take my life as lately

he would have trusted everything he held dear

with me ; more bitter foes than wc may not exist.

Yet think not meanly of me ; believe not, because

I have parted, and that in anger, from horn, I

would have saved you and your fair niece the

more. I would have done the same had I been to

him as I have been. I have no secrets of his to

tell — at least, mean not to do so ; all I have to

say, concerns you. You must not return to

Antwerp — at least, openly, for it is your brothers

kind intent to seize and imprison you ; perhaps,

Play you. You start, but I utter no more than

truth. You cannot be ignorant of the attempts

making silently to once more enslave the people ;

you are known to be too friendly in your disposition

towards them to be suffered the chance of

siding with them when the struggle takes place.

The Count Idenberg has undertaken to provide

for you, and if he obtains possession of you he

will ; you know horn, and can guess how. You

cannot remain here one hour longer, for by that

time the Duke Estevan will be here. — Ha ! I see

by your start you hate him — hate horn as I do—

as I do — as I do"— .He ground his teeth as

though he would reduce them to powder, and

clenched his hands as he reiterated the words ;

but in another moment this singular display of

vindictiveness had passed away. " This Grand

Duke, this Prince," he continued, in a tone of bitter

scorn, " has fixed his princely gaze upon your

fair niece. The Count Idenberg has some foolish

fancy that he will wed her-baron, he is coming

here with a crowd of retainers ; upon pretext of

paying a visit, he purposes to carry her off, and

when he has dishonored her — aye, thou mayst

well clench thine hands — will he, think you,

make her his duchess ?"

My brother would tear the heart from his

body," cried the Baron, trembling with passion,

"did he dream the Duke dared hold such a thought."

Not he, Baron — nay, never chafe that I tell

you plain truth," returned Frank, " he would not

care. I have tested, tried him — I have found

horn what I loathe. Baron Hainault, desperate

fortunes may have made me a questionable man,

but I have never been absolutely a villain— l have

a conscience. The first moment I found to what

a depth of villainy Count Idenberg would descend

I hated horn ; but of this anon — I have news even

of this matter, which will astonish you when you

hear of it ; there is not time now — you have but

one path open to you, you must return at your

best speed to the castle from whence you came ;

there for the present thou wilt be safe."

Safe !" echoed the Baron, scornfully, as

though his courage by that remark was questioned.

Aye !" replied Frank, with the same unmoved

calmness he had, with one exception, hitherto displayed,

" or, if 'twill please thee better, thy niece

will there be safe. It is the only road you can

take without being intercepted, either by the Duke

Estevan or the Count Idenberg, who crc long

will make his appearance here, though his stay

will be short."

The Baron mused for a moment upon what he

had heard. Frank suffered his silence to remain

undisturbed until he thought there had been sufficient

time for his communication to have its due

weight, and then he said —

Baron, if you follow my advice — which is

honest, no matter what I seem in your eyes — you

have not one second to spare to reflection. IT by

acting in opposition to it you believe you shall

ensure the Lady Meta's welfare, remain ; but I

fear you will learn, when too late, that I spoke

truly, meaning fairly and friendly."

I see not why I should doubt thee," replied

the Baron, in a tone which displayed a resolution

formed to be abided by ; " of two evils thou hast

counselled the least. I will follow your advice,

for it will leave me to act freely, while my niece

will not be in jeopardy though I may not be by

her side."

Whip and spur then, my lord," cried Frank,

with sudden animation, " you will well need it.

For myself, I must remain here, at all hazards,

until you are beyond pursuit ; then — but no matter.

Away, my lord, wait not for another

word."

Frank, as he spoke, walked to the spot where

adolf and Meta were waiting their uncle, who,

with a swift step, followed the singular being he

had been conversing with. He vaulted into his

saddle, and with a single exclamation of thanks to

Frank Merritt, he led the way to the castle gates,

which, at a sign from the latter, were thrown open,

the drawbridge lowered, and the little cavalcade

passed into the free space beyond. Baron Hain-

aunt was a man who, having once accepted counsel,

followed it to the letter. He therefore urged

his people forward ; while, by his own example,

he kept Adolf and Ilia niece, who was mounted

upon a swift steed which she managed with skill,

at a rapid pace. Half an hour had scarcely

elapsed when Friederich, who lead been riding in

advance, turned his steed, and approaching Baron

Hainault, said hastily—

My lord, in the turn of the road yonder is a

cloud of dust, which could only be occasioned by

a very large body of horsemen. Is it your pleasure

wc meet them, pr retire while they pass ?"

The Baron turned his eyes in the direction in

which his retainer pointed and observed the cloud

he had mentioned. It was very extensive, and

by its density and length shewed there must indeed

be a large body of horsemen to have raised

it. To encounter them was not the Barons object

; he therefore glanced round for a spot which

would be large enough to secrete himself and

companions. The ruins of a building, which had

been formerly a convent, stood close at hand, aud

without waiting for reflection, he ordered his

retainers to repair to there, and spurred his

horse thither. They had barely sheltered themselves

within the convent walls, when the advance

guard of the coming troop wheeled rapidly round

the turning of the road and appeared in sight.

They galloped briskly forward, their bright

casques and breastplates flashing in the sun, aud

their glittering pennons fluttering gaily. The

Baron watched them attentively as their numbers

increased and passed on, and then murmured— >

"That array is no holiday suit to do homage

to a fair dame ; this cloud of spearmen was never

marshalled forth on such an errand — I know tho

Duke better than, to believe it My counsellor

hath not deceived me, the fellow meant me

honestly ; I shall henceforth follow his dictation

with freer will."

As he spoke, a thicker cluster of horsemen

appeared in sight; their dresses were brighter,

handsomer, but not less martial than the array

of those who preceded them. A plume, or rather

a cluster of white feathers graced the helm of

one rider in particular ; in horn the Baron recognised

the Duke Estevan. His brow lowered,

his teeth grated harshly, as his eye fell upon

hir n; but he made no exclamation. The cavalcade

swept past, and even at that moment was

the flash and report of a gun. The Duke staggered

as though he would fall from his horse ; a

rush of horsemen hid horn from the barons eyes,

and a body of troopers instantly separated themselves

from their companions to discover who

had discharged the piece. The thin blue smoke

from the exploded powder was seen to issue from

a grove of trees, some little distance from the

ruins of the convent, and curl in fanciful wreaths

until commingling with the air it was lost to sight.

It was to this spot the troopers directed their

attention , actuated with one feeling, they urged

their steeds into its recesses, and could be seen

winding among the trees, searching with a closeness

which promised them success. Baron Hain-

aunt quickly surmised that a failure to unkennel

the delinquent in the grove of trees would induce

the seekers to extend their scrutiny, and in al)

probability bring them to the ruins ; he, therefore,

prepared himself for the meeting. The confusion

into which Duke Estevau's attendants had been

thrown by this unexpected incident had not prevented

their continuing their route ; and while the

caps and hauberks of the troops were yet glittering

among the trees, t hey had passed far on their

way. It was not, however, safe for the Baron

and his people yet to quit their covert, as their

discovery, if they had. must have been inevitable ;

they still, therefore, kept close, waiting but ,their

departure to take their own Strict silence had

been preserved while they lay hidden ; not a word

had been spoken — scarce a gesture made. The

approach of a footstep, though stealthily made,

cracking the dry twigs and rustling through the

long grass, was consequently heard by all. A man

in an instant afterwards made his appearance : he

was habited as a peasant, save that the whole, of

his dress was black, which was a colour i\uvly

worn by the peasantry ; hi. face was ghastly pfl.e,

and looked whiter from the contrast afforded by

a profusion of black hair which fell from his tern:

pice, aud also covered the greater part of his face

in. the shape of huge whiskers and must-it hoes.

He bose in his hand a musket, and, to, all in touts

aud purposes, was the man who fired the bullet at

THE BLACKSMITH OF ANTWERP. 89

the Duke. He appeared surprised at the sight

of the Baron and his people, and impulsively raised

his weapon, ready for instant use. He glanced

quickly rounds and, after a moments inspection,

his eyes rested op Baron Hainault : he instantly

lowered his musket, afl,d> with an air of profound

respect, advanced towards him.

Baron Hainault," he exclaimed, in a voice

which sounded strangely hollow, " I have met you

unexpectedly, but not undesired — I was about

to seck you in Antwerp. lam commissioned to

deliver this packet to you," — he produced one ashe

spoke — " and was bid desire thee use all dispatch

in complying with its contents."

The baron took it, and, glancing hastily at the

superscription, he tore it open and perused a document

it enclosed with signs of wonder and agitation.

Thrice did he read it crc he made an

exclamation, and then folding it, he placed it in

his belt, and said —

It shall receive my speediest consideration."

The man bowed, and retired as stealthily as he

bad approached.

Will you not ask horn whether 'twas he who

but now discharged the piece ?" enquired Adolf,

eagerly.

Ask nothing," returned the Baron, briefly ;

see, the troopers have retired from yon trees and

followed their comrades without effecting their

object — let us take our departure also, wc have

need of haste."

He was obeyed, and leaving their retreat they

set forward upon their journey. Something to

Adolss surprise, he found that his uncle chose a

different route to that he had taken on quitting

the castle, to which he was now returning ; but

as he lead been desired not to question horn, he

refrained from enquiring the reason. The road

now chosen laid along the banks of the Rhine,

and afforded Adolf fair opportunities for sweet

converse with his cousin on the beauty and romantic

nature of its scenery. Little cared he for the

motive which had induced his uncle to take this

route ; he was too happy in. the society of the Lady

Meta, and the evident pleasure she enjoyed from

the contemplation of surrounding objects, in which

he was certainly included. He lost no opportunity

of rendering her progress as pleasant and as free

from care as the nature of her situation would

allow. Towards nightfall they stopped at a hostel

situated on the side of a road which wound

on the borders of the river ; the prospect was

beautiful, and the appearance of the house, if humble,

was at least clean and commodious. They

passed the night there, aud in the morning the

Baron announced his intention of remaining that

day. It was a beautiful day ; the sun shone

brightly, the birds sang sweetly, and the clear

fresh air, as it blew upon their faces, was full of

fragrance. Adolf and his fair cousin, with the

Barons consent, wandered happily in the many

beautiful spots with which the neighborhood was

studded ; hours flew lightly by them in their retailed

memories of the past and fond hopes of the

future ; time had no mark to shew how it passed

away. The blue vault of heaven above them undecked

by a cloud, the green trees and flowers

with their bright and varied hues filling the air

with their fragrance around them, and the sense

of the presence of each to the other, robbed the

day of its hours and made it glide by simply as a

time of extreme happiness . While they were indulging

in the communion of their hearts, a far

different scene was enacting at tho hostel.

Towards noon a large body of horsemen arrived

; they were followed by a second and a third,

until nearly two hundred men surrounded the

house. The separate leaders, however, dismissed

the greater portion of their troops to a rendezvous

appointed by them, allowing only a few, equal in

number to the Barons attendants, to remain.

They entered the hostel, and were shown into the

apartment which contained the Baron, and where

he apparently was waiting their approach. He

greeted them as they entered with friendliness,

but not with familiarity ; indeed, the deportment

of the corners was remarkably grave, and an air

of mystery reigned over all pertaining to them.

The Baron himself seemed to have altered the

general mildness of his character into a stern sedateness

sympathising with the demeanor of his

visitors. Little was said on either side until afte r

they were seated, and the wine which had been

placed upon the table had been circulated ; then

one of the guests spoke of matters which it was

soon plain were of fearful importance ; others followed

of no less terrible important were discussed

with a tone and manner which displayed a knowledge

of possessing tho power to wield an engine

terrific and overwhelming in its nature. The actions

of those great in wealth and rank were discussed

and enlarged upon, and fearful punishments

proposed, which made it evident that these men

possessed some extraordinary means of compassing

the destruction of the mightiest in the land.

The punishment of nobles surrounded by thousands

of retainers, was spoken of and treated as

both easy and sure of accomplish intent— a lightness

which did not characterise their discussion

upon deeds which had rendered the punishment

both just and deserved In the midst of an animated

discussion, they were all startled by a voice

exclaiming, in a loud, deep toner-r

I crave your attention, nobles ; I seek not to

FRANK Merit BEFORE THE COUNCIL OF THE "FEHM GERICHTE."

.<■.

contrived for a proper number of the fermented

to take horn in the fact, he will escape as he has

hitherto done. VvTiatsayest thou, Baron Hainault?"

The Baron, who had sunk into a deep fit of

rousing, started on hearing himself addressed.

He looked wildly round, utterly unconscious of

all that had been said. On its being repeated,

he said —

Few men who have crossed horn but have

reason to curse horn ; he is the friend of the vile,

the despised ; and hated of the virtuous. If the

Fehm Gerichte hath power — if it is not an institution

to be laughed to scorn by those who depend

upon their rank and followers for immunity from

punishment for monstrous crimes, he shall be

punished, and that as tremendously as our laws

will permit. Let horn be forfeited; let horn be

served ; and, if he appear not, let justice take its

course. He hath lived too long, he is rank on

the earth ; it cries for his blood, and it shall drink

it and be appeased."

"It is agreed — it is agreed," cried the members

of the council, spontaneously.

I will write the citation, and thou shalt serve

it, Frank Merritt, if 'twill please thee to do so,"

exclaimed the Baron.

"I will do it gladly," he returned; "he shall

have it though he command his people to cut mein

pieces as I serve it."

"Wc will guard against that : there shall be

witnesses who shall swear to the serving, and aid

thee if thou need'st it," said the Baron, taking up

a pen and commencing the citation.

I have two accusations here from a.fehmenote,

denouncing one Michael Flors, a painter, and one

Quintain Matsys, both of Antwerp," exclaimed

Count Liebenstein.

How !" ejaculated the Baron, raising his head

from his occupation. " I know the painter well —

an enthusiast in his art. Of what is he accused ?"

Both are accused of treason to the state," returned

the Count. " The painter is charged

with associating and aiding by counsel' a band of

conspirators upon whom the state hath had its eye,

and the latter is accused of slaying a peaceful retainer

of Aldebert Count Von Haalst, as well as

being an obnoxious reasoner. They can be cited

to appear at the same time and place."

Who is the accuser ':" asked the Baron, with

a scornful smile.

Wilhelm Von Sturm, relumed the Count.

'• He is the accuser of both."

"A servant of the Count Von Haalst," exclaimed

Frank Merritt ; "as worthy of credit as

Duke Estevan of heaven. Some people belonging

to Count Von Haalst, would fain have carried off

the painter's daughter a prize for their noble

roaster, but this tare Quintain Matsys, than when

a nobler youth lives not, crossed them; h

slashed one of the knave's shoulders, but slew hin

not. Thus is it he is charged of treason by Count

Von Haalst's servant, who knows horn not, ani

indeed, never saw him."

I believe thee, Frank Merritt," observed th

Baron ; "my nephew saved the maiden from th

hands of the Count, and consigned her to th.

keeping of this same Quintain Matsys spoken of

whom, as wc approached Antwerp, wc met seek

mg her. It was the same youth who brought tiring

from my niece Meta, which told roe of he

danger. The accusation is false, and may not b

entertained."

Still it hath been sworn to, and wc mus

serve the citation," said the Count Liebenstein

The accused will right themselves before the

tribunal ; your testimony, Baron, will be sufficient,

and the perjurer will be punished as he deserves.'

Let it be so," observed the Baron. " Here

is the citation for the Duke Estevan ; if thou can -i

not serve it upon horn, affix it to the castle gates,

and acquaint the warder, that upon peril of being

hung, he causes the Duke to be informed of its

service — it will suffice."

He tendered horn the citation as he concluded.

Frank took it and placed it carefully in his belt,

and said, as he prepared to quit the room —

The Count Idenberg will not be forgotten !"

The Baron started at the mention of his brothers

name, but recovering himself and assuming

a lofty carriage, he replied —

Trust me, he shall not. lam sworn to do

justice to all ; I will keep my oath, let the sacrifice

of feeling be what it may."

Frank inclined his head respectfully and quilt*,

the room, but re-appeared almost instantly, dragging

in a man habited as a trooper.

Here is an eaves dropper — a stranger — m

even a chopped. He has heard all that hi

passed," he cried.

He is doomed," exclaimed Count Liebensta

sternly. He clapped his hands thrice, and sot

men, habited in deep black, with masked fact

appeared by a side door in answer to his summons

a few questions were put to the unhappy wretd

who confessed having dogged Frank Men id

steps and listened to all that, had passed, but I

tered the most, terrific oaths that he would a|

divulge what he had heard. They availed hi

nothing ; he was borne struggling from the apartment

to a cluster of trees at the back of the hotHj

and was instantly hanged ; a knife was placed

the tree, that passers by might shudder as ■

looked upon the terrible and summary justice)

the Fehm Gerichte.

-

CHAP. XV.

The first act of Quint in Matsys upon gaining

his home, was to seck his sister, and with as much

conciseness, but as much clearness as possible, to

relate what had befallen Michael Flors ; at the

same time he represented the situation of Agnes,

her fright, her agony, her loneliness, in such vivid

colors, as effectually to rouse the tenderest

sympathy in her behalf. He had not to hint his

wish to Blanche that she would, though a stranger,

visit and endeavor to cheer her ; she offered

readily, and with a manner which made it delightful

for horn to accept her proffered kindness. She

knew it was no time for jest — she could see by

the expression of his features how deeply interested

he was, and had the wisdom as well as the

kindness to forbear sly allusions, meaning observations,

and sarcastic remarks, the usual custom

upon such occasions, though she had discovered

he loved the painter's daughter. She attired herself

quickly and accompanied horn to the residence

of Flors. They were scarcely ushered into the

painting room crc Agnes flew forward to meet

horn, saying, with the greatest eagerness —

There is my father — have you not released

him — have you not disproved the false charge

and obtained bis freedom — is he not with you ?"

"Be calm, I entreat you," replied Quintain.

n

"He is safe and well ; no harm shall come to horn

he shall be restored to you crc many hours have

passed — cheer thy spirits — his absence will be

short — you must think of it no more than to fancy

he is on a visit to a friend."

A friend !" she exclaimed bitterly.

Aye, fair Agnes," he replied gently, " if in

thinking so it will rob thee of thy anguish. Fear

not, all will yet be well. I have brought my sister,

if you will be troubled with her society, until

your father is set at liberty ; I thought you would

prefer it to the painful loneliness which thy sad

thoughts would occasion thee. I know not if you

have friends whom you would desire more earnestly

to be with you, but this I know, you will

not meet with one who will more sincerely sympathize

with thee, or more truly endeavor to give

thee such consolation as will be most grateful to

thee."

I thank you for your kindness most deeply,"

returned Agnes, embracing Blanche ; " I am sensible

of the generous spirit which prompted this

visit, and cannot be too grateful for it. You are

most welcome — it will be a consolation to have a

kind friend near me to enable roe to support the

weight of misery this unexpected and undeserved

visitation has east upon me, and if 'twere possible

to feel any emotion of gladness, thy presence

would raise it — indeed you are welcome."

"I am a stranger to you as yet," returned

Blanche, thanking her for her reception, " but crc

long, let me trust you will class me as an earnest

friend. lam plain in my manner and homely in

my thoughts, but I am sincere ; you will know

me such as you see me ; I am thy humble friend,

still you will find me a true one."

Such an one as my heart has long yeamedfor,"

exclaimed Agnes, with enthusiasm ; " such as for

years I have imagined and, in imagining, hoped

to be favored with. Oh ! Blanche, I see that I

require not long to know thee to love thee ; come

then to the place in my heart which hath so long

been vacant — come to if and reign there with undivided

sovereignty."

Agnes leaned her head upon Blanche's shoulder

as she uttered the last words and wept unrestrainedly,

wept as though some other thought was

connected with those she gave utterance to, but

which, though it grieved her, she concealed.

Blanche pressed her to her heart and spoke soothingly

to her. Quintain, who could not look upon

the weeping maiden without feeling a sensation of

painful sympathy, determined upon leaving his

sister with Agnes, and departing to visit such of

the young men enrolled in the band, of which he

was at once a member and a leader, who were not

so thoughtless in the use of their tongues as they

were enthusiastic in the employ of their weapons

when occasion required; he therefore waited buta

pause in the colloquy between his sister and

Agnes to announce his intention of quitting, for

the purpose of consolidating the plans he had

formed for the release of the painter.

Fear not," he added, " there are a thousand

hearts in Antwerp who will, at a word, raise their

right hands to restore thy father to liberty, should

other means fail to obtain it ; console thyself,

therefore, for no danger can or shall come to horn

while absent from thee, and that absence shall be

so short as to make thee wonder, when thou seest

horn again, it should have occasioned thee such severe

grief. Farewell ! I will hasten to the burgomaster

Vanderneer — he can, and will, do much

in this matter ; and, trust me, nothing shall be

lest undone to restore thee once more to happiness."

It was strange to see how suddenly the expression

of gratitude, which had illumined the face of

Agnes, faded as he concluded, and assumed the

same cold reserve it had once or twice before displayed.

He perceived the change in an instant,

but was utterly at a loss to account for it. She

was still as thankful, aud her words were as

strongly expressed as ever, but still there was a

coldness which pervaded them not existing a few

minutes previously. He could not help a feeling

of vexation crossing over horn, but he hastily dismissed

it, and, attributing this singular variability

to sorrow for her father's position, he reiterated

his intention, particularly the last, with more fervor

than ever, but without succeeding in kindling

one spark more warmth than she had just exhibited.

He departed hastily, and in anything buta

pleasant mood. How he longed for somebody

or something to quarrel with ; how hard he tried

to unravel the meaning of her strange behaviour

without wandering at all near the point ; there

was only one conclusion he arrived at, certainly

not an agreeable one, the last he would have entertained

but that it would force itself upon him.

She sees that I love her," thought he ; " she

feels the services 1 have done her are not to be

passed over with a shake of the head and a smooth

word ; she has all the kindness of the gentlest

of hearts, and would render her thanks as she has

done — warmly, fervently ; but she loves me not,

and fears her enthusiastic gratitude may be misconstrued

into a tenderer feeling, and compels

herself, in violence to her own feelings, to shew a

reserve, that I may not build up hopes never to

be realised. My eyes, my words, the tone of my

voice, must all tell her how much I love her ; and

to prevent my being wounded at some future time

by a refusal when I might anticipate a consent-she

puts on this coldness she does not feel. Now

God is witness how hard a blow this is to my

heart ! but rather than give the beloved one pain,

I will bury it deeply in my own soul, and she shall

not see I love her as I do, but shall perceive

nought but the affection of a true friend in my

future conduct to her. Great Spirit ! give me

but strength of heart to carry out my purpose,

and I will fight the great battle of life as resignedly

as may be, and go to the grave singly, honoring

her and dying un wedded for her sweet sake."

With a sorrowful spirit he sought the house of

the burgomaster Vanderneer ; he was from home,

but his fair daughter Adeline was within, and

with some of her brightest smiles she welcomed

our hero.

My father told me you were coming, friend

Quintain," she exclaimed, " and bade me receive

thee kindly, as if I should not do that, without his

bidding. Pray seat thyself— my father will be

back anon. He said if thou shouldst call crc his

return, thou wert to wait, for he would fain see

thee upon pressing matters, ; so prithee be seated.

You are pale — you are not well. What hath

happened to make thee look so sorrowful? Come,

tell me and let me be thy physician ; you will find

me skilful — at least, sincere; and that is more

than can be said of all the men of physic in the

universe. What is thy ailment — is it near thy

heart?"

Nay, thou wouldst be my confessor also," retained

Quintain, with an attempt to be cheerful.

Not so," she returned gaily, " for then I

should require to know all thy sins ; and, St.

Ursula protect me I they would terrify a stouter

ear than mine. No, Quintain, I desire not so long

a catalogue as a history of thy delinquencies, and

thy virtues are written in thy face and figure,"

she added, with an arch glance. " I can see one,

and I desire not to hear the other ; I ask thee

but as thy leech would require of thee, a detail of

thy pain, and where it is situated. I know it is thy

heart that is affected, but I would have thee confess

it in order that I may teach thee how to cure

it."

How wouldst thou cure it ?" asked Quintain.

I must first know if the wound really exists ;

I must then see the object that caused it, and

know how far the object is itself laboring under

the same disease, crc I gave thee the desired information,"

she said laughingly.

"Supposing I were to bid thee consult the

glass and look into thy heart, what then ?" exclaimed

Quintain, affecting a gallantry he was far

from feeling. Adeline blushed violently, then

turned pale as death, and making a desperate effort

to support the tone she had previously used,

she said —

I am not a judge in my own case."

"Nor m mine," returned Quintain quickly, witnessing

this sudden emotion displayed by Adeline

with some consternation. "My heart is untouched,"

he added, " or if not untouched, it will

not prevent me passing through life to my grave

as singly as I have Used hitherto."

"A strange determination," she exclaimed,

scarcely recovered from the confusion into which

this sudden remark had thrown her.

But a decided one," he rejoined. There was

a disagreeable pause of a minute ; it was, however,

broken by the sudden entrance of Wanderer.



Aha I Thou here ? lam glad thought here,"

ne cried, " I have news for thee, friend Quintain —

news for thee."

"Is it of Michael Flors?" asked Quintain,

eagerly.

Aye, he is closely connected with it," returned

Vanderneer. " I have been riding hither and

thither as swiftly as my stout steed would carry

ene in bis behalf. I was not present at his examination,

but I have had an interview with Count

Idenberg."

Indeed," exclaimed Quintain ; " and what was

the result?"

Very little good to be obtained from one who

taps no stock of it on hand," returned the burgomaster

; "he called our friend a foul conspirator

said he had proofs of his treason in bis possession

from one whose rank placed his word above

suspicion ; but that I doubted, for many a man of

rank would be poor indeed if he had only his word

to depend upon for credit. He possessed the

warrant of the Emperor to justify horn in his conduct,

and as I spoke warmly in the name of my

fellow-citizens as well as myself, he promised me

that Michael Flors should have a fair trial, and

be dealt with as the evidence proved his innocence

or substantiated his guilt. I succeeded also, in

extorting from horn an order to see our friend ; I

shall therefore hasten to horn and bid horn not despair,

for his friends will rally round horn, and it

shall go hard if these nobles trample upon our

liberties and rights without having good and sufficient

cause to remember it."

Would it matter greatly to thee if thou wert

to give me the order and let me pay the visit to

Michael Flors?" enquired Quintain, with some

anxiety of manner.

No, save that I wish to see horn and bid horn

hold fast his faith in us, for Antwerp shall be

levelled with the ground crc these nobles thus rob

us of our best Lanner," replied the burgomaster,

speaking enthusiastically. " What wouldst thou

with the order ?"

I would see horn on matters of moment. I

cannot explain them now," said Quintain, " but

they are of considerable importance to horn, and

will have a material effect in obtaining his release.

I would not ask the order of thee, but that it would

greatly serve a purpose which I have in view."

And what is there I would not grant thee,

didst thou ask it of me ?" said the burgomaster

warmly. " There is the order — it is the only

boon thou hast craved of me since thou didst

save my child ; what a churl I were to refuse it.

Marry, Quintain, I would I could grant thee a

boon worth having. I never see thee but I feel

that I have received a service of thee of the greatest

magnitude, without having in the slightest

degree requited it. I would that thou wouldst

give me back the promise thou didst extort from

me, never to make thee a gift until thou didst ask

me for it."

Well, thou see'st I have asked thee for one,

and thou hast granted it," said Quintain, taking

the order with a smile ; " I can assure you it is

no small boon, and as such I estimate it ; I thank

you for it, and with your permission will hasten

to make use of it."

Have you not one half hour to spare us ?"

returned the burgomaster. "It is long since thou

didst favor us with thy company."

Aye, very long," said Adeline with a sigh ;

but there are other friends nearer, but not truer."

"Certainly not truer," iterated the burgomaster.



"I never questioned it," said Quintain. " Believe

not, because thou hast not of late found mea

guest, that I have neglected thee for the sake of

others, newer or older friends. I have not been

master of my own actions for some little time

past, and am unlikely to be for the present ; but

when I am, you will find me ever ready to meet

you with the same feelings, the same sense of

the kindness you have honored me with, which I

have ever evinced. I beg of you now to excuse

me, for I am on service which will not brook

delay."

Well, well, you know best, friend Quintain,"

said the burgomaster, in a friendly tone ; " there

is my hand, here is my house — come when you

can, when you will. My good dame and my

daughter will always greet you with a hearty welcome."

.

Indeed wc shall," said Adeline, earnestly,

pressing his hand, which had taken hers as he bade

her farewell. Quintain would not so far wound

her feelings as not to return the pressure, but he

hesitated as he did so, and in doing it compressed

herfingersbutslightly, devoutly wishing in his heart

that they were the fingers of Agnes Flors. Many-were

the places he visited crc he bent his steps to

the watch-tower, and many were the promises of

aid he received from those who resolved upon giving

it without asking what the result might be.

He approached the river-side, and was ferried

across by a man who, on learning his destination,

viewed horn with suspicious eyes, but made no remark.

Quintain wrapped his cloak closely round

horn, and, as the boat bore horn swiftly to the

watch-tower, he regarded the building with eyes

of curiosity as well as exultation ; for though he

felt satisfied that a few hours would see it unable

to resist the forcible entry of himself and friends,

yet he examined it carefully, to see what prospects

of resistance it held out, and where the most vulnerable

point was situated. Before the boat

reached the shore, it was challenged by the sentry,

who, presenting a musket, bade the boatman keep

off shore or he would fire upon them.

I must land here — I wish to see the prisoner

who is confined in the tower," exclaimed Quintain,

in an authoritative tone.

You cannot," returned the man ; "no one is

allowed to have speech with him."

I have an order to see horn," persisted Quin-tin,

" and I depart not from hence until I do."

Who signed the order ?" asked the soldier.

The Count Idenberg," replied Quintain.

The answer appeared to satisfy the man, for

he suffered the boat to land, and walked with our

hero to the door of the watch-tower.

Knock loudly," he said, " and shew thy order

to whoever answers thy summons. He wil

direct thee where the prisoner is confined."

Quintain followed the roan's counsel, and was

answered immediately by a rough looking fellow,

who stared at horn with surprise. He interrogated

Quintain rather rudely, but was silenced by the

sight of the order. He directed horn to ascend a.

flight of stairs, and there he would see a jailor,

who, upon receiving the order, would usher horn

into the cell in which Michael Flors was confined.

With a light step Quintain flew up the stairs ; cache

reached the top he encountered a person descending.

A momentary glance shewed horn it

was the Count Idenberg. He half buried his face

in his cloak, and continued his ascent. He saw

the glitter of the Count's eye as it lighted upon

horn, but waited not for recognition. The Count

continued his progress until he reached the foot

of the stairs, and then Quintain heard horn say, ina

harsh voice, to the man who had directed him —

Who was that who passed me but now upon

the stairs ?"

A stranger to see the prisoner, Michael

Flors," returned the man, in a respectful tone.

He bore an order with your signature attached,

crossed with the name, Vanderneer."

"Ha ! was it the burgomaster, — it looked not

like his form. I will wait this visitor's return."

Quintain waited to hear no more. He saw the

chances of discovery were very great, and resolved,

at least, to see Flors before he was detected.

He hurried forward, and soon encountered

the jailor, who ushered horn into a small

apartment, where he perceived Flors intently

engaged in the perusal of a document. Quintain

removed his cloak, and shook warmly the proffered

hand of the old man, who made an exclaim o.i

of joy the moment he saw his young frieuj.

It is a sorry welcome I can offer yo.i in this

dreary den," he exclaimed, " but still you're

welcome to my eyes, and more so that the obligation

is all on my side. And how is my daughter,

roy dear child, my sweet Agnes ? How bears

she my absence ? Grievously, grievously, I doubt

not ; but she is safe and w r ell — there is no harm

likely to approach her while wc are parted, is

there ? Tell me, for that fear has formed the

greatest agony I have suffered in being tom from

home. Shield her, shield her, youth, from harm,

as you have rescued her from it ; she needs a

strong arm and a faithful heart to guard her now

lam not by her side. You are true and honest,

I can trust in you ; there is truth registered in thy

face — thou wouldst not deceive mc. Upon you

Quintain MAT3YB Visiting MICHAEL PLOR6 IN THE WATCH TOWER,

I lean as upon a rock in this storm; if you fail me,

then am I lost."

"You may trust in me, good Flors," exclaimed

Quintain, affected by this burst of anxiety which

the old man, with tears in his eyes, displayed.

Everything which can be done to render her

safe and free from anxiety on thy account, shall

be done."

"I know it, I know it," ejaculated the old man,

squeezing Quitting hand and brushing the hot

tear away as it rolled down his check. " Now,

rascal," he suddenly exclaimed to the jailor, a

burly looking fellow, who was watching with an

expression of wonder the effects of his emotion,

"for what art thou fixing those glaring eyes of thine

upon me ? It is no part of thy duty to stare at

thy prisoner as though he were some wild beast,

nor to prick up thine ears at every word he may

utter as though he was speaking treason in every

sentence. Begone, fellow ; thy place is without

—know thy duty better."

The man seemed overcome by this unexpected

sally ; he murmured something that was inaudible,

sought to look important, but, being unable to

withstand the brilliant and commanding glance of

the painter, he retired. His footsteps died away,

and Flors said earnestly —

■ Once more, dear friend, thought welcome to

my heart — welcome now and ever. Thou hast

now given me the tenderest proof of thy friendship;

the first hand to save my life in danger, the first

friendly foot to visit me in prison. St. Luke destroy

my vision* I if I ever cease to remember

thee. lam not manacled — you see they have

spared me that indignity, aud I have not been

without my visitors. Firstly, a knave who bade

me, with a friendly affectation of kindness, confess

my guilt and give up a list of the conspirators with

whom I was in league. He promised me, if I did,

that I should have my life spared, and be richly

rewarded ; but if I refused, 1 should be hung on

a gallows fifty feet high. I declined, for between

you and I, not having in any way been concerned

in any conspiracy, or being acquainted to my

knowledge with any conspirator, I should have

some difficulty in consenting ; and on giving my

refusal, I believe I read horn such a lecture as he

will not lightly nor easily forget. He spluttered

grotesquely, and shortly afterwards I was honored

with a visit from the Count Idenberg, who is too

great and grand a being to hold converse with one

humble as myself, who for a time was a companion

of the Emperor's. This Count, who

holds the Emperor's warrant, informs me ray accuser

is a noble, whose proofs I cannot confute,

let my attempts or evidence be what they may ;

which is sufficient to tell me, my trial upon this

groundless charge will be most unfair. He has

given me this paper to subscribe to, which contains

terms similar to those proffered by the fellow

who first visited me here. I shall be permitted

to escape, mark that ! if I consent to perjure myself

; but am to be hung if I adhere to the truth

and spurn the offer made mc. I had just finished

its perusal as you entered."

And formed your determination also ?" said

Quintain, interrogatively.

My dear young friend," replied Flors, laying

his hand upon Quintain's arm, " when a young

man sets forward in Use with truth and honor for

his lode-star, and when, through years of toil and

trial and strong temptation, he has steered himself

still by that star, never veering an inch out of the

course he had laid down for himself to pursue,

until his hair is blanched with time, and his face

wrinkled, it may be with care, think you that, old

and on the verge of the grave — the harbor which

is the end of our voyage — he would sacrifice the

principle which has kept horn in his course through

every storm, and to lengthen a voyage which,

after all the struggles to keep in the right track,

must end in dishonor ? No, no ; death is but a

change in our being, it is not annihilation ; and

why should I fear to meet it, though it struck me

even now ? Thought young, high blooded, full

of elevated thoughts, ambitious, aspiring ; thou

hast strong hopes — thou hast much enthusiasm —

thou dost look forward to the future with fervid

imaginings of glory, of being honored by those

whose admiration is worth having. I see it by

thine eyes, which kindle at a proud thought, and

glitter, like the coruscant stars, at a vision of ambition

; thou hast all to gain from the suture, thy

heart is set upon it ; I read it in thine every look

and gesture. One of a craft will find another of

the same calling out, meet horn when, where, and

how he may. lam an enthusiast, and a glance

tells roe thought one ; and reading thy soul by a

knowledge of roy own, I can divine how dear a

term of years yet to come, giving thee fair opportunities

of working out thy fervid aspirations,

roust be to thy heart, yet thou dost not fear to die.

Thou wouldst throw thyself, single handed and

unarmed, upon a lion, if thou didst see one weak

and defenceless in danger of its attack ; yet thou

hast all to gain by living. Now tell me, my young

friend, if wc feel alike upon these things, which I

am sure wc do, dost thou think I, to whom life

cannot be of a third the value it is to thee, could

hesitate in spurning any alternative which should

compromise my honor — which should sully lips

that hath never been scorched by a lie passing

between them ? No, I am a painter, following

the divine art from pure love for it, from high

enthusiasm, and would not, for a paltry few years

of existence, desecrate the temple in which I have

worshipped, the shrine I have honored. My resolution

taken ? I have no resolution to take.

I know of no conspiracy, nor any conspirators.

I cannot confess to that of which I have no knowledge,

and such shall be my answer to all, let my

fate come how it may."

That you have been unjustly dragged from

thine home, and as unjustly confined, admits not

of a doubt," said Quintain, "and you have guessed

thy shoulders, good Quintain," said Flors, smiling

though so wai m is my opinion in thy favor, that

I fear not for the issue, wert thou singly opposed

to hir n; but I doubt if he would meet thee

fairly and honorably, and I should grieve most

bitterly didst thou fall through bis treachery. No,

leave horn to the justice of heaven, which, if to our

imagination it be tardy, is still sure to wait upon

crime. My hand is something too old for the

sword ; long use of the pencil bath unfitted it for

the wielding of a weapon, or I would not have

my thoughts correctly in believing that I would suffered horn to remain without a challenge, which,

act as you have done ; but I have yet to see whets keep his position as a noble, he dared not have

ther, upon another point, wc should agree with refused to accept. However, let it pass ; he has

equal closeness. Supposing that door were open, been frustrated in his atrocious design, and ob-and

unmolested egress from this building attend gained the scorn of a noble who loved his father,

mg it, shouldst thou not feel thyself free to take but who will not fail to punish as well as publish

advantage of it, and leave this place ?" the degeneracy of the son. I believe it is to the

Certainly," returned Flors ; •' had there been revenge of Count Von Haalst that I owe this ab-the

shadow of truth in the accusation I would have surd charge of treason, and I have arrived at this

remained until the hour of my trial under any cir- supposition from a remark which fell from Count

substances, and abided the result with cheerful Idenberg."

ness; but having done no wrong — having conceived "Indeed," exclaimed Quintain, with curiosity

none, Ido not feel myself under any tie to remain impressed in his features. " What was that • "

here to my great inconvenience, sundered from " He told me that he had heard from good au-roy

child and the pursuit of my beloved art, though thirty that 1 was much beloved by the towns.

I should be ready to come forth and meet my ac people, much looked up to by the merchants; I

accusers and abide my trial whenever it was ap that I had a trick of reasoning with some power,

pointed to take place. lam innocent of this charge; that made many of the most influential burghers

it is not probable that I could feel the same influx look up to me for advice, which, when given, they

once to endure even a portion of the punishment invariably followed ; my influence over them was

of the guilty." unquestioned, and theirs over their fellow raer-

"l am very glad to hear thee say so," exclaimed chants and burgomasters was as evident. Nos

influence or power in any way but as a painter.

It is strange that neither believed my assertion ;

both honored me with an incredulous smile, and

Count Idenberg hesitated not to tell me he was

better informed, and left me the paper, bidding

me make a speedy decision for life or death. He

but left me as you entered."

"I met horn as I ascended the stairs," said

Quintain.

Dost thou know horn ?" asked Flors, eagerly.

I have seen horn before," replied Quintain.

"Upon what occasion?" asked Flors.

"That of commissioning me to form, a design

in iron for some particular purpose," replied

Quintain evasively ; conceiving it better that he

should not as yet make the painter acquainted withall

that had hitherto transpired between horn and

the Count, in case the jailor might be applying his

ear to the key-hole — a supposition he had formed

by fancying he had, a few minutes previously,

heard a slight rustling against the door which had

very much the sound of some one playing the

eaves-dropper. It struck horn also, that he had

better do his best to make good his retreat as soon

as possible, crc he was prevented ; for if the listener

conveyed to Count Idenberg that one Quin-tin

Matsys was closeted with the painter, he felt

little doubt what the result would be. He therefore,

after answering a few questions respecting

the nature of the work upon which he was employed,

being equally circumspect in describing it,

proposed to take his leave.

I would have you be unconcerned for the

safety of thy fair daughter Agnes," he said ; " the

time will be short crc you again enfold her in

your arms, and you may rest satisfied that every

attention she can require shall be paid to her. Let

thy peace of mid, therefore, be unbroken, and

trust me, I will not remain one minute idle until

you breathe the air of freedom again. I must

leave you now, for I have much to do and but

little time to accomplish it in ; wc shall meet again

shortly, and, I trust for all parties, happily."

When wc meet, it will be happily, I am sure,"

said Flors ; " I feel for thee, Quintain, the love of

a father." Quintain sighed at that remark, and

his heart beat suddenly and with a strange wildness.

Ah ! what a wish it raised — how earnestly,

fervently it was made ; but, as he thought, how

unlikely to be realised, Flors noticed the sigh ;

he could not avoid it, it was so ardent. " I know

thou hast lost thy father, Quintain, that sigh told

me so ; let me be one to thee. With such a son

as thee and such a daughter as my beloved Agnes,

and such an art to be a true follower of, who

should be so proud, so happy a being as I ?"

It hung upon Quintain's lips to say that he had

heard horn assert his daughter should be wedded

to none but a painter, and that he was not of the

gentle craft, when as if to crush the hopes again

raised to the highest pinnacle, though he was glad

he had withheld the remark, Flors continued —

Agnes and thou shall be brother and sister, a

fair pair truly. Thou hast a claim upon her sisterly

love, and, I know her heart well, she will

not fail to award it ; but wc will speak of this

anon. It is a sweet theme, wholly unfitted to so

drear a place as this ; when I am free wc will

pursue it, and trust me, when wc three are again

in each others presence, I will wm from her an

admission that, for the services you have rendered

to her and to me, she will look on thee with a sister's

affection."

Quintain pressed his hand, but then was a sinking

of the heart, a depression of the spirits ashe

did so, he would lain have spared himself.

He made an effort thai Flors should not observe

his sadness, and needed as much command over

his feelings to prevent the keen eye of the old man

reading his secret; he, however, succeeded, and

thanking horn warmly for his kind thoughts and

his affectionate intentions, he bade horn farewell.

The old man parted with horn as he would from a child

he loved, and Quintain, in receiving so unequivocal

a proof of the warm feelings entertained for horn,

could not help wishing devoutly that Flors might

yet be induced to forego his resolve, and consent

to his union — oh ! happy hope ! — with Agnes.

After quitting the cell, which he did somewhat

hastily, he encountered the jailor so closely, as to

render it a matter of little doubt that the man had

been doing his best to catch every word that had

been uttered. Quintain ground his teeth with vexation,

and eyeing the man sternly, said —

How now, knave ; is it part of thy duty to

place thine ear to keyhole, that it might drink in

the unguarded words of one shamefully and unjustly

confined in yon cell ? Why, *tis the slaves

task, the abject wretch who has no claim to the

feelings of manhood ; of horn who cannot, without

shuddering, think upon himself, and dare not hear

his character from others. Tell me, has the old

man, thy prisoner, done thee any wrong or injury

?"

He never did me any good," said the man,

With a sullen brow.

But he has done thee no wrong, yet would

you, seeing a great wrong has been done to horn,

add to it with all thy power by an act which all men

are ashamed to own— even he who degrades himself

by doing it. For shame ! thou hast the form

of a man — endeavor to possess some claim to the

soul of one. If thy necessities compel the to fill

this hateful situation, at least do thy duty with

such consideration, as may make thy account with

heaven lighter when the day of reckoning comes."

He turned from the man as he spoke and descended

the stairs, shrouding his face as closely

in his cloak as he could, expecting to meet, at

every wind of the stairs, the Count Idenberg.

He, however, reached the g-round floor without

interruption. He paused a moment, and cast a

quick glance around hir n; the place was lighted

by one window only, and the roof being in Norman

arches, those portions which did not come

in immediate contact with the line of the window

were shrouded in darkness. In one of these

gloomy spots, standing by a pillar, he observed

the Count, attended by two men, waiting his approach.

For a moment he was undecided how

to act ; to pause And converse with the noble was

to bring horn certain incarceration — there was but

one chance of escape, which was, at all hazards,

to push by the Count and make for the boat at

his best speed. Policy, and not fear, advised this

course. He hastily drew his sword that it might

be ready for instant use, and then advanced with

a rapid stop. Al he reached the spot where

stood the noble, hit progress was arrested by the

hand of the Count, who, stretching it forward,

laid it vigorously upon his shoulder and held horn

firmly.

Good Burgomaster Vanderneer, I would have

a word with thee," he exclaimed.

The force with which he checked Quintain had

the effect of unloading his face and disclosing

it to the Count, who perused it with astonished

eyes.

"Quintain Matsys," he cried, loudly. "By

the foul fiend ! the knave who hath done me so

much mischief. Secure horn, fellows."

With a desperate exertion he shook off the

Count's hold, and throwing back his cloak, he

raised his sword like lightning and made a fierce

blow at the first man who advanced to obey the

orders of the Count. The man fell, and, leaping

over his body, Quintain darted to the passage leading

to the door. A man stood in the entrance

flung horn on one side, and in an instant was

outside the building. The boatman who had

brought horn there was just quitting the shore,

with the intent of leaving horn to return as best

he might. With one bound he was into the boat,

and, seizing one of the paddles, cried to the man

energetically —

Pull, man — pull for your life !"

Why ?" asked the roan, so astonished with

this unexpected incident as to be quite confounded.

Ask no question, but row for your life,"

shouted Quintain.

■ Are you one of Count Idenberg's people ?"

asked the roan.

No," cried Quintain, scarce heeding what he

said, " his deadliest foe."

Then 111 put out my strength for you," exclaimed

the boatman. He had not time for more

when the Count appeared, with three or four soldiers,

at the waters edge, and, with a shout of

rage at observing his expected prisoner, was fast

getting into the stream, he bade his men fire.

They obeyed horn, but missed their aim, and the

shots hissed and splashed round our hero and the

boatman without wounding them.

They are fools," said the boatman coolly ;

they shoot too wide, and have all fired together.

Wc shall be pretty nearly beyond their reach before

they can load and fire again ; they should

have fired singly if they wanted to hit us. Pull

hard, meinherr — pull with all your strength ;

stretch forward as far as you can, and don't be

afraid of pulling. — Ah! I see you know how to

handle the paddle ; that is well, meinherr — now

you see wc almost fly."

Bang went the guns again, and several shots this

time lodged in the boat, but without wounding

its passengers.

That's the last chance," said the man. " I

don't care how often or how fast they lire now,

they cannot reach us again. You have been to

see the painter — if I may be so bold, how does he

bear his confinement?"

As au innocent man should," replied Quintain,

with a clear brow and an undaunted heart. 1

trust roy visit may not have injured him. The

Count, knowing me to have had an interview with

horn, may be induced to treat horn harshly."

Do you know anything about to-night?" interrupted

the man with some eagerness. Quintain

eyed horn with some surprise.

What do you know of to-night ?" he asked.

My boat is engaged for a certain purpose — I

don't hesitate to say as much," said the boatman,

for I believe you are a friend of the painter's."

Who engaged your boat," asked Quintain,

quickly.

An old friend of mine, one Heinrich the blacksmith,"

said the man; "and if you will pledge

your soul to secrecy as I did — except where a

chance of getting a recruit offered — I will tell you

what is going to take place, and get you to join us,

which, when you know all, I daresay you will do

readily enough."

My name is Quintain Matsys," observed our

hero, laconically.

Aha !" cried the man, " I might have saved

myself some breath. Well, meinherr, let me

tell you this — there will be a strong gathering

to-night, and the youths will not come back emptyhanded."



"It is not my intention they should," said

Quintain, "if I have any influence over them.

Let me warn you, however, my good fellow, to

put a guard upon your tongue. I can imagine

your warm heartiness in the cause, but, at the

same time, the smallest slip of prudence may

overset the best contrived arrangement. It is

not so much numbers that wc require as it is bold

hearts and strong determination ; a few staunch

followers, well directed, will do more than a host

unskilfully managed."

You have a good reputation, meinherr ,"

observed the man, readily ; "wc shall be

well managed if you lead us, angel wc will get the

old painter, or have the whole building down."

Has Heinrich appointed a place for the boats

to meet his friends at?" asked Quintain, making

no allusion to the compliment paid him.

*• At Schauffen's mill, at ten to night," returned

the man. "lam to have the duty of bringing up

the boats."

And see that you do your duty well," said

Quintain.

Ay, meinherr, or let me be the first man you

cut down," he replied.

Quintain smiled, and turned his eyes to the

watch tower. The Count and his people had retired

; even the sentry who had paced the banks

of the river was removed, and the dreary building

looked once more as it had been for years—un-

tenanted. Quintain surmised that there was some

reason for this change, and resolved that it should

not pass unquestioned ; he therefore said to tho

man —

When you have landed me, which you will

close under yon warehouse, do thou return and

keep a strict watch upon the tower ; if anything

unusual occurs, let me know. I have some suspicion

that the Count may attempt the removal of

his prisoner ; if he should, let me on the instant

know, while some one watches the course taken."

He then gave his address to the boatman and

hastened to the smithy. Here he met with a large

increase upon the morning's number, all busily

engaged, preparing, and discussing the forthcoming

expedition. He cautioned them to be more

secret in their preparations, and make every arrangement

necessary to accomplish the purpose

of the undertaking, appointing time, place, and

arms required. When he had concluded his instructions,

he hastened to tell Agnes of his interview

with her father, and represented his situation

in terms sufficient to ease her mid as much as

was possible. With some pain he observed there

was still a reserve struggling with her thanks, but

attributing it to the cause he had, on quitting her

to visit her father, imagined, he would not quarrel

with it, though much it hurt him. He found that

she appeared happy in the society of Blanche,

and so lest his sister with her ; he then returned

homeward to prepare for the coming event. He

met Caspar Hauser in his way, and was sure of

his aid — in truth, before he could be made to understand

for what his services were required, they

were proffered ; he did not, however, lose an opportunity

of suggesting, that if Agnes Flors had

visited Blanche instead of Blanche visiting Agnes

Flors, it would have been far — in his estimation

—preferable, in as much as he knew there were

very few attractive young men in the neighborhood

of Quintain's dwelling, and he did not know

how many there were in that of Michael Flors.

As, however, he could not exactly give a definite

reason for advising this change, it had no weight

with our hero. Having named the hour for their

re-union, Quintain parted with horn and returned

home : he looked out such weapons as were sure

to do horn good service, and then sat down to await

| the hour which was to see horn join his companions

in the attempt to release Michael Flors. Quin-tin's

mother had, from the commencement of these

incidents, been completely mystified ; our hero

had not thought itadvisableto make her acquainted

with the real facts of any of the occurrences which

came under her observation. For the last few

years he had been the support of his mother and

sister, and, save the natural pleasure the former

had in knowing that he was fully employed, she

never interfered in what he did ; but now that

such singular matters were taking place — now

that Blanche was away, and he evidently heavy-hearted

and preparing for some important action,

she deemed it her duty to, at least, have some

share of his confidence. , She spoke to horn quietly

and kindly, but though she reasoned forcibly and

clearly, and he knew riot but that he might never

again after that night look upon her, he still had

sufficient strength of rind to keep from her that

which it would have only rendered her weary, anxious,

even unhappy, to have known. The time

appeared to' pass slowly, but at length the hour J

arrived, ' and Quintain, accompanied by Caspar

Hauser, quitted his residence. He hastened to j

the spot where he had appointed to meet the boatman

who had that morning carried horn to the

watch tower upon his first inspection of it; the j

man was at his post, and our hero and his companion

entered his boat. They were quickly, by

Quintain's direction, carried to the spot which was

to be the rendezvous of those concerned in the expedition,

and found that they were the first there.

The boatman seemed perfectly to understand that

his services were further required, and fastening

the head of his boat to a small pile, he quickly

laid himself down in it. Quintain was soon joined

by Heinrich and a number of his craftsmen, who

advanced so silently that they were by our hero's

side crc he knew they were approaching ; they

were followed by others, advancing in all directions,

but observing the same caution ; they arrived

in twos and threes, nevermore, until, in less

than half an hour, Quintain found himself attended

by at least an hundred men. There arrived also

a dozen boats, some from down the river, others

in a contrary direction, while a few came across ;

everything was done so quietly, and with such

management, that the mass of men were congregated

together without noise, confusion, or waste

of time. Quintain then decimated them, gave each

tenth man the command over his nine companions,

and saw them enter their boats. It was a bright

moonlight night, which was a great disadvantage;

but it was hoped that, by care, and acting well

in concert, this might in some degree be obviated.

He dispatched four boats down the river, directing

the boatmen to keep under the shadow of the

land until they were beyond the watch tower; they

were then to cross the river, the crew to disembark,

and advance by land to the tower, doing

their best to avoid being seen. Four more boats

were to cross directly opposite to the rendezvous

and do the same as the others, while Quintain, with

the remaining four, after allowing those who had

preceded horn sufficient time to enable them to be

on the spot when he landed, determined to advance

directly to the scene of action as swiftly as

the boats would bear them. Eight boats then

left the spot, cleaving their way with rapidity and

silence ;' and when they were at the required distance,

the remaining boats departed also. By

Quintain's direction they male at once for the middle

of the stream, and proceeded as though their

destination was the city, at the same time gradually

edging their boats nearer to the tower as they

approached it. When close enough, Quintain said

to the boatmen —

Make for the shore — pull lustily ; the sentinels

roust have no time to conjecture and then give

the alarm ; look to your weapons," he added to his

companions, "and when the boat's keel grates on

the sand, leap on shore, following each other as

you sit, that there may be no confusion."

A brief assent was given and the boats' heads

were turned to the shore. As they approached

closely and swiftly, the sentry challenged, fired

his musket, and, astonished by the numbers he

saw, retired hastily into the building. With the

aid of those whom the report of the gun had

brought to the spot, he fastened the massive door

by the bars and bolts it was numerously furnished

with. The arrangements for joining simultaneously

had been so well contrived, that as Quintain's

followers leaped from their boats the others joined

on each side, panting in with a determination in

their bearing which, had victory depended upon

that, would have rendered their success certain.

Quintain was the first of his boat's crew to land,

and the first to advance to the door ; he drew his

sword, and waved on his companions, who, having

gained the spot, and further caution being unnecessary,

uttered a shout and rushed up the causeway

after him. Many of the men were armed

with sledge hammers, numbers with spears and

muskets, and all with swords. Way was made for

those with hammers, and, no answer having been

returned to the summons to throw the door open

and admit them, the blacksmiths commenced beating

it in. They were immensely strong, and

with their huge hammers they laid upon the door

with such vigor as to make it appear that it must

b« an easy conquest; this, however, was not the

rase ; the door had recently been repaired — banded

in all directions with wrought iron, and withstood

the tremendous blows poured upon it right manfully.

The windows at the top of the tower were

now opened, and a number of muskets were discharged,

wounding several of the assailants.

Quintain instantly ordered those of his own band,

provided with fire-arms, to station themselves

where they could command these windows and tire

into them as long as a weapon continued to be discharged

from thence. This command was obeyed

with such quickness and precision, that the guns

from that quarter were soon silenced. The blacksmiths

persevered in their efforts to break down

the door, and with incessant blows such as those

poured upon it, it was impossible to remain unmoved

; the principal lock, it was evident, was

broken — the splinters of the battered wood flew

in all directions, and, by the deep indentations

in the centre, a breach appeared inevitable. In

the midst of the crashing angel shouts which waited

upon blows promising more success than others,

word was brought to Quintain that a large body of

armed men were hastily approaching ; he hastened

to see the truth of this information and perceived,

at the distance of less than a quarter of a mile, a

hand of troopers, whose numbers were about fifty

or sixty, advancing quickly. To communicate

this intelligence, and prepare for an encounter,

was but the work of a few minutes ; the operations

against the door were not, however, suspended,

for the prospect of entrance grew every moment

more favorable, and as that, under all circumstances,

was the point desired, it could not be accomplished

too soon. With impatience the arrival

of these troopers was awaited, and not long were

the expectants kept in suspense ; they appeared as

anxious to meet as they were to be met, and were

soon on the spot. As Quintain expected, in the

person and voice of their leader, he recognised

Count Idenberg, who cried in loud tones —

In the name of the Emperor I demand of ye

why ye are thus violently assembled, like a band

of thieves and cut-throats about to break into a

building for the purpose of plunder ? Speak and

disperse, or expect to be punished as rebels and

traitors to the state."

A low derisive laugh followed his words. Quin-tin,

when it subsided, exclaimed—

Count Idenberg, you have here confined a

prisoner upon a false aud shameful charge — wc

demand his instant liberation."

And wc will have it," exclaimed several of

his followers, instantly.

Quintain Matsys !" ejaculated the Count.

Dog, art thou born to cross me in all things?"

then raising his voice, he cried, " Disperse, villains,

and leave this Quintain Matsys — thy leader, if thou

wilt, in my hands as a hostage for thy better 'savior,

or a gallows fifty feet high, shall help thee

to a flight to the other world. I charge thee do

this in the name of the Emperor !"

A laugh far more scornful than the one preceding

again followed his speech, and a loud shout

from the active smiths announced that the door

was yielding to their untiring efforts.

My lord, the tower will soon be in our possession

in spite of thee," cried Quintain, " yet will 1

give thee the grace of delivering up to us one

whom thou knowest is wrongfully imprisoned.

Speak, my lord — what is thine answer?"

This, thou audacious traitor," roared the Count

discharging a pistol directed, though suddenly,

full at Quintain's head. The bullet grazed his

temple, causing horn to stagger, and fall, but he

was upon his feet in an instant ; his comrades

thought horn wounded, and with a shout of vengeance

that filled the air, they sprung forward and

attacked the troopers. The Count shouted to his

men to stand firm ; they received the shock with

tolerable steadiness, and returned the blows they

received with rapidity and fierceness. A battle

was no longer to be avoided, and a melee ensued.

The ponderous weapons of the smiths, some of

whom carried bars of iron, did terrific execution

in this close fighting, and their numbers preponderating,

the discipline and accoutrements of the

troopers, all wearing breast plates ami morions,

availed them but little, — so many fell in so short

a time, that several became afraid, and fled —

others followed their example, until the panic became

general, and the whole body retreated, followed

closely by the smiths and townsmen, until they

broke into open flight carrying lecount with them

raging and storming furiously. They were pursued

by a large portion of Quintain's people, while

he returned to complete the destruction of the

door of the tower. This was at length accomplished,

the door was beaten off its hinges, the bars

battered down, and then the entry was carried.

Another door had yet to be broken open, which,

however, soon yielded to the attack made upon it.

The men, with our hero, were now in the lower

apartment where Quintain had that morning met

Count Idenberg. The door which commanded

the stairs was closed, but the necessity for beating

that to pieces was saved through the boatman,

who in the morning had described the tower with

such accuracy to Quintain ; he picked out a flag in

the floor on which was a small knob of iron ; he

pressed this, and a portion of the flag glided away,

leaving a large iron ring visible ; this was sized

by horn, and, with the assistance of one or two

others, a trap was raised, and a flight of steps

disclosed.

This will lead us to the vaults," he exclaimed,

and in them you will find a secret narrow staircase

which communicates with every room in the

building."

Lead on and shew it to us," cried Quintain.

With all my heart," responded the man. He

descended the stairs, closely followed by our hero.

The place was very dark, and before they had

half descended, a shot was fired at them ; a shriek

rose from the boatman, and he fell headlong to

the ground. Quintain instantly shouted for a

torch, swiftly descended the remaining stairs, and

by the groans of the boatman discovered where

he lay. A number of his companions quickly

followed horn, but before they could render auy

assistance to the wounded man, there was a discharge

of fire arms from a corner of the vault ;

this time there was a volley, and several of Quin-tin's

party were wounded. The flash of the ignited

powder discovered to our hero the spot where

stood the foes who had fired ; he caught a glimpse

of their faces in the momentary blaze, and, calling

loudly on his companions to follow horn, he rushed

to the spot. The darkness was still too intense

to discern a single form, but he was too quick to

suffer the men to escape, and resolutely attacked

them, knowing only that he was opposed to there

by feeling and hearing their weapons clashing with

his own. The darkness, however, lasted but a

few minutes ; several of the smiths, in expectation

of their being required, had furnished themselves

with torches. These were now brought alight

into the vault, and by their glare exposed every

corner to the view. Quintain found himself confronting

half a dozen fellows, well armed, who,

however, on perceiving how far they were outnumbered,

threw down their arms and begged for

quarter, which was immediately granted to ther n;

they were then bound and removed to the boats.

The staircase of which the boatman had spoken

was, however, nowhere to be seen, although a

strict search was made for it. Quintain, disappointed,

returned to the spot where the unfortunate

man had fallen. He raised horn from the

ground, and found that he still breathed. He

spoke to horn, and the man, half opening his eyes,

said in a faint voice —

"I am wounded, meinherr, but not killed;

staunch the blood, and I shall do well enough."

Quintain found the roan was bleeding dreadfully

from a bullet wound beneath the left collar bone,

and, as well as he was able, contrived to bandage

it ; by the aid of one or two of the people this was

speedily done, and then Quintain asked horn to

point out the staircase.

Aha !" he said feebly, " you cannot find it

alone ; no, no, it is too well contrived for that.

Carry me to yon wall. There are six pillars

half buried in it ; the third from that door place

me before, and I will disclose it to you."

Quintain did as he desired, and the man pointed

out a spring so cunningly placed, that it would

have been almost an impossibility to have discovered

it untold. A pressure upon this spring removed

a large stone, disclosing a piece of iron

fashioned into the shape of a common spade handle

; this the boatman desired the strongest man

to pull with all his power, and Heinrich, whose

arms were all but gigantic, seized it, and exerting

all his strength, drew it towards him. To the surprise

of all, the stone pillar slowly revolved,

and disclosed an opening wide enough for one

person to pass at a time. Quintain instantly seized

a tore and, grasping his sword firmly, rushed

through and mounted the stairs, which he perceived

were narrow and spiral, before him. With

a cheer his companions followed horn, and the

whole party poured up the stairs. When our

hero arrived on the flight which, according to his

calculation, was level with the one on which Flors

was confined, he paused, and looking for an outlet,

saw a door, the fastenings of which he observed

with much pleasure were upon his side. He lost

no time in removing them, and, throwing open the

door, rushed into a corridor where stood a party

of soldiers to confront him. They instance,

upon his appearance, levelled their muskets and

fired ; the shots whistled past horn, one wounding

horn slightly, and two or three cutting his doublet

without hurting him. Waving his sword, and

cheering his people on, he darted forward, and

without giving his assailants time to reload their

pieces, he dashed among them. Heinrich was

by his side, closely followed by Caspar Hauser,

and such was the impetuosity with which these

three made their onset, that the soldiers, though

at least seven times their number, gave ground.

Heinrich had no weapon but his sledge hammer,

and this he wielded as easily as others did a sword;

he felled every opponent he attacked ; his heavy

weapon crashed irresistibly through guard and

sword, alighting upon the head of his antagonist,

and unfailingly precipitating horn to the earth,

stunned if not brained. The three gallant companions

were, however, soon joined by their

friends, and the fight became desperate, for the

soldiers fought gallantly. Such numbers, however,

thronged upon them that it was impossible for

them to continue the fight ; they therefore surrendered,

and, giving up their arms, were bound

and sent to keep company with their comrades

already captured. Instant search was now made

for the cell in which Flors was confined, but there

were so many doors together it was impossible to

tell which was the one ; they were all knocked at

in succession, and the painter's name was loudly

called, but no answer was returned. All the

doors were massive, and it would have been immense

labor had they attempted to beat all in.

Time was precious, too, for there was no telling

whether the Count Idenberg would not return

with a larger body of troops than before, and render

their rescue of his prisoner more than doubtful.

The jailor, who had in the day admitted

and they were called upon to descend. Our hero

hastened to the spot to see if it could not be extinguished,

determined not to leave the building while

a chance of saving Michael Flors existed, and as he

reached the flight beneath he observed the jailor,

whom they had been seeking, struggling in the

arms of several of his comrades. He sprung forward

and seized horn by the throat.

Scoundrel," lie cried, "tell me instantly in

which cell your prison, whom 1 visited this

morning, is confined, or you shall sutler a dreadful

death upon the spot."

The man returned no answer, but endeavored

to shake Quintain off. The smoke increased to an

alarming extent, and every moment all expected

to see flames burst forth and compel them to quit

the spot. Enraged at the man's sullen taciturnity,

Quintain, with a M ivugt.h surprising, dragged horn

from the spot, crying, in a voice thick with passion

—

Speak, dog — .speak, fft hy the Holy Cross !

I'll cast you into the flames and se»- tm accursed

frame a blackened cinder crc I leave the spot.

Speak, villain, or a dreadful death be thy doom —

Speak!"

A burst of flame shot forth as he concluded,

and the heat became intense, while the smoke almost

choked them ; the burning wood hissed,

put tered, and crackled, and thousands of sparks

began to fly in every direction.

Will you speak, blood-hound ?" cried Quin-tin

with intense .excitement. " Speak, or by my

father's spirit ! thou shalt perish in these flames.

Speak crc it is too late — speak, or to thy doom."

He dragged horn at'dl nearer to the flames as he

shouted forth his words, the men all looking on

with excited countenances, scarce knowing whether

to interfere or remain inactive. The heat

aud blaze of the flames, as well as the suffocating

vapor, subdued the courage of the jailor ; a single

glance at the fierce faces around horn convinced

horn that he might expect no mercy from them if

he held out, and therefore he, though with a reluctant

tone, said—

Release me, and I will shew you bis cell."

Aye, and unlock it too," cried Quintain, quickly.

Come, not a moment is to be wasted — attempt

not to deceive me, if thou wouldst have thy life

spared."

The man muttered Something which, in the

anxiety for the discovery of Flors, was unheeded ;

he was hurried forward until he exclaimed, on

reaching a door —

This is the cell ; you must get in as you can,

I have not the keys — set me free, I have done

your bidding."

Quintain returned no answer, but, tearing open

the fellow's vest, he disclosed the keys, which were

fastened round the man's waist by strong cords

to keep them from jingling. Quintain drew ibis

dagger, and bidding Heinrich seize horn, which he

did, fnd held horn as if be were in the gripe of a

vice, he slit the cords and obtained possession of

the keys.

"Do not let horn escape," he said, "hold horn

fast ; if he has been guilty of any treachery to

Michael Flors, he shall be punished for it, though

his blood lie heavy on my soul hereafter."

A ready assent was given to his request, and

he tried the keys in succession until he found one

which would fit the jhjck ; he turned it, the bolt

shot back, and he hastily pushed open the door.

What a sight met his gaze — Flors was stretched

upon the floor, chained hand and foot, and a gag

wis fastened over his mouth to prevent his making j

an outcry. Quintain uttered a cry of indignation,

And turned to the jailor with eyes of fire ; the

man was alarmed now in earnest, he became white

with fear, and exclaimed, hastily —

'•' You will find the key of bis manacles upon

the ring, it is the smallest of the bunch. I — l

did only what I thought my duty — do not destroy

mc."

Quintain compressed his teeth to keep down his

passion, and turned from horn to release Flors

from his painful and degrading position. He found

the key ; it unlocked the chains, and, raising the

old man from the floor, he removed the gag as

tenderly as possible, though he did it quickly.

Flors had fainted. Quintain laid his head upon

his shoulder gently, and, lifting horn in his aims

as if be had been a child, he exclaimed, in a voice

husky with emotion —

Our object is accomplished — let us hasten

hence ; there is a large quantity of gunpowder

stored in this tower — if wc pause, a single spark-may

send us to eternity."

He hurried forward with bis burden as he

spoke, and was greeted with shouts of welcome

and joy as he passed. The intelligence he had

given to the comrades surrounding horn in the

cell was speedily communicated to the others, and

every one hastened to quit the tower. The flames

now burst forth with fury, enveloping all the upper

part of the building, and a brisk wind made it

burn rapidly, the flames shooting forth and roaring,

sending showers of sparks aud thick clouds of

smoke swiftly across the otherwise clear moonlight

sky. The boats were speedily put into requisition.

Quintain, bearing Flors, lost no timer

in getting horn into a boat, and bathing bis temples

with the cold waters of the Scheldt quickly

restored horn to consciousness ; he heaved a deep

sigh, and opening his eyes, and staring wildly

around horn, he asked, in a faint voice —

Where am I ? who are ye who surround me ?

what place is this ?"

■ You are among friends," returned Quintain.

Fear nothing, you are safe ; lam Quintain Matsys

calm yourself, do not speak yet. You will be

better able to talk anon. Caspar," he exclaimed,

suddenly addressing his friend," bid the boatman

put off and land us from whence wc started ; pass

the word to all our friends to follow us."

This was quickly done ; the wounded were

carried carefully and placed in the boats, the soldiers

who had been made prisoners were left on

the banks, and then simultaneously the boats shot

into the river and were propelled across with silence

and swiftness, the more especially as a large

number of vessels, small and large/were seen

quitting Antwerp for the scene of action.

The tower bums bonnily," exclaimed Heinrich,

aster a silence of a few minutes had reigned,

every one of the boat's crew having their whole

attention absorbed by the blazing building.

Who set it on fire?" asked Quintain, suddenly,

and somewhat sternly.

That rascal jailor, who little thought, I'll wager

a month's labor, that he was preparing himself

so fiery a doom," said Heinrich.

What has become of horn ?" asked Quintain.

Why he confessed," replied Heinrich, " that

he had thrown together a large pile of combustibles

by order of the Count Idenberg, who expected

this attack though he arrived too late to prevent

it, and upon the flames reaching a certain point,

they would communicate with a train which was

in connexion with many chests of gunpowder.

This was only to be done in case of our success ;

as wc were successful it was done, and wc luckily

caught the fellow trying to escape. He acknowledged

the indignity he had done to the good

painter was of his own accord, in order to keep

horn silent ; for knowing it was our intention to

liberate horn, he hoped to send us flying to the

other world before wc could find where he was

confined."

What has been done with horn ?" again asked

Quintain.

Wc consigned horn to a doom," said Heinrich*,

sternly, " such as he would have given to us ; wc

threw horn into the burning room, and fastened

the door upon him."

Quintain shuddered but made no reply. A silence

again took place, which was broken by a

sudden brilliancy of light flashing with almost

blinding brightness before their eyes. All looked

to the watch-tower — a column of fire shot up into

the air, then a report came crashing in their ears,

stunning them with its loudness, then a darkness

ensued, and masses of stone and wood fell around

them in all directions, striking the boats, and

splashing in the water as they plunged heavily in.

The tower has blown up l" shouted Heinrich

as the boats rapidly pursued their way among the

falling materials, the only sound which broke the

stillness succeeding the report.

May such be the fate of every shelter to the

unjust acts of oppressors, said Quintain, in an earnest

voice.

Amen !" exclaimed many voices.

The boats now approached the ruins of Schauf-

fen's mill, and then Quintain exclaimed, in a tone

which was heard by all —

Land quickly, for there are numbers approaching

who may fear to view our act with our eye ;

this is no time to justify our dccd — the time will

come, surely and speedily too. As soon as you

have landed, separate, each returning to his home

without loss of time. A few of ye bear the

wounded to the smithies, and let there be two in

each boat to row them to various parts of the river,

that no clue to us may be, for the present,

obtained. Farewelljbrothers ! Heartily and truly

I thank you for your sincere and honest services

this night."

A mvrmvr of applause was given, his counsel

followed, and in a few minutes, of all the host

congregated there was not a vestige was to be seen.

CHAP. XVI

There are some men, even in the present day,

when society is, in all its relations, as opposite as

it can possibly be to that which four hundred

years since existed, who have a mystery attached

to there which none can fathom. They are seen

amongst the bold and bad, and yet they are found

doing good actions. They have power, which, in

various ways, they display ; yet the exercise— the

very existence of that power is a mystery which

none can fathom. Its director is, in all his actions,

incomprehensible ; he glides among ye

when ye least expect him — he is gone while a

sense of his presence is strong upon you. He is

a mystery embodied, a wonder whom none can

fathom, a being of whom wc would be independent

and hold ourselves superior to ; yet is there a

mental activity, an energy which finds occasion to

make us require his services, which lead us to admire

bis abilities, and, after his first act of favor,

to covet his acquaintance, if not friendship, without

enquiring respecting his moral worth. In the

earlier ages, when Germany was in a state of disorganization,

and " anarchy and feuds prevailed

to an alarming extent, the castles of the nobles

became dens of robbers, and law and justice were

nowhere to be found," such men were occasionally

met with throughout the country — courted, yet

feared ; sought, yet shunned. Now they were to

be seen in the strong holds of robbers, now in the

halls of barons and nobles ; again in the palaces

of princes and kings, anon in the forest with members

of the terrible Secret Tribunal, and again in

the humble dwelling of the lowly peasant or honest

artisan ; yet, stood he among the highest or

the lowest, richest or poorest — the generous and

brave, or ruffian and coward, there was an awe in

his presence, ' which all felt equally, questioned,

yet could not divest themselves of. Such a man

was he who styled himself Frank Merritt. No

man who once met horn forgot .horn ; none stood

before horn and felt horn, mentally, their inferior.

There was a vigorous mid shewing through all

he said and did. He might not be skilled in book

learning, but he was in human nature : it was the

book he studied, the compass by which he steered

his bark through life. Hard had been the acquirement

of his knowledge ; he bad passed

through a fire which would have seared a weaker

being, almost untouched ; it had lest horn like the

steel which passes through the fire of the forge,

tempered to withstand the rudest shock, as well

as power to give it. No man but he would have

dared to encounter a sitting tribunal as he had

done, and with equal coolness. The punishment

for even a member of the tribunal, chopped or

Jehmenote — the first and second degrees of station

in the society, intruding unsuminoned, was

instant death ; yet had he braved the hazard with

tho same calmness he would have entered the

dwelling of a peaceful citizen. The result the

reader knows. There was that same mysterious

air around horn which, if it did not awe the members

of the council, had still the effect of commanding

their attention and bringing them to his

level, if such may be called his station, who would

have stood unmoved before au emperor's anger,

and looked with blanched face and calm eve

upon the block, had it been preparing for his

death. When he encountered the eaves-dropper

on quitting their presence, he knew horn at a

glance ; he knew horn the minion of a villain,

though a noble ; he knew horn posted there to gather

information in order to perpetuate a deed of

villainous knavery successfully. There was some

gain to accrue to one for whom he felt a strong

attachment in this man's death, and he seized

him. A single instant sufficed to present all to

his mid, and he dragged the man before those

who fulfilled a law all present had, with the most

tremendous oath, swim to observe. As the miserable

wretch was dragged from the room, he

remained behind, and exclaimed —

Ere I depart upon my errand, I would, when

the council has terminated, have a few minutes

converse with you, my lord baron, and you also,

Count Liebenstien."

"It shall be so," returned the Baron; the

Count also gave his assent, and Frank once more

departed. He quitted the inn, and, mounting a

strong black steed, clapped spurs to horn and was

quickly out of sight. When the members of the

council had terminated their labors, by the discussion

of matters terrible in themselves, but unconnected

with this tale, they separated. All but

Count Liebenstein partook of some slight refreshment,

and summoning their respective people, went

their way. Upon making enquiry for Frank

Merritt, he was not to be found ; he had not been

seen siuec his departure. The nobles waited

some hours, expecting to see horn, but he came not;

and when tho sun was making his descent to the

horizon, and the cool breeze was modifying

the heat which his beams bad left, the Baron,

with his nephew and the Lady Meta, issued forth

from the hostel to continue their journey. Count

Liebenstien's road for a considerable distance was

the same as theirs, and his people mixing with

those of the Barons made an escort sufficiently

strong to chase away any fear of attack from the

lawless men who, in these unsettled times, infested

every road where travellers possessing anv

wealth were likely to pass. The Baron, who was

anxious to return to Antwerp, determined upon

journeying all that night, to rest during the heat

of the following day, and finish his journey the

succeeding evening, rather than rest that night

and occupy two days in his progress. He found

no objection raised by his companions to this

mode of travelling, and accordingly it was proceeded

with. As the night advanced, Adolf, who

had never lest his cousins side still kept there, and,

long as they had conversed, found yet some new

theme for discourse. The Baron who had accidentally

started a subject of deep import to himself

and the Count, pursued it with such intentness,

that he insensibly slackened his pace, the

Count doing the same, until the retainers who

formed the rear guard overtook them. The subject

was too important to drop suddenly, he therefore

ordered his people to advance, bidding them

not to keep beyond the reach of a summons should

he require them to suddenly join him. The men

obeyed, and the Baron continued his discourse ; so

deeply buried in the conversation were they, that

they heard not the sound of a horse's feet fast 

Forest HAUNT.

preaching them, and it was not until the horseman

was at their side that they observed him.

Both turned their eyes upon horn instantly, and

perceived that it was Frank Merritt. They received

horn without testifying any surprise, though

they both felt it.

You were desirous to speak with the Count

and I," said the Baron to horn in a calm voice,

is this the opportunity you would seek ?"

"It is," said Frank ; "wc are here unheard and

unobserved. To you, ray Lord Baron, I will first

address myself; it was a thought that, you, having

doubted me crc you left Idenberg Castle, might

have those doubts renewed by remembering that

I told you I meant not to acquaint you with such

secrets of thy brother as were in my possession ;

and yet I have disclosed a terrible one, which I

am about to substantiate. In justification to myself

it is necessary that you should know that I

came only into possession of that fearful secret

after yon had quitted. The time was brief between

your departure and the arrival of the Duke Es-evan,

whom I dared not trust myself to meet, for

I cannot yet forfeit my life rashly — I have too

much to accomplish. Short as was the time* it

sufficed to put me in possession of all which could

bring the deed home to Count Idenberg with damning

accuracy ; and as be is about to proceed in

acts which will compromise thy happiness as well

as that of others, I saw that the only effectual

means of checking horn in a career vile as he has

proposed to himself, was to denounce horn to the

Holy Fehm Gerichte. I have done so, and have

now, by this explanation, 1 hope, removed all mistrust

from your mid respecting me which, questionable

as my position may have appeared, I do

not deserve."

Hadst thou remained much longer in my

brothers service," said the Baron, " I should have

introduced thee to the notice of the Fehm

Gerichte as the leader of a band of ruffians With

whom he filled the castle — the refuse of the dens

of thieves with which this country too unhappily

abounds. Thy conduct, even now, is a paradox

to me : thou art a fchmenotc, yet bast thou the

control of ruffians of the worst class; and, natheless,

I find thee doing creditable actions."

The mystery is answered in a word. lam

not the leader, nor was I ever, of those men," said

Frank Merritt ;." my connexion with thy brother

wast on my part single, and had but one object,

which I may not mention now ; still I was long

enough with horn to make me waver between rough

honesty and vice. I confess to having had evil

thoughts, and to having looked on some rascality

with a quiet eye ; constant, community with villany

will undermine the best inclined being— it

worked its way for a short time with mc. However,

my eyes were opened by a single act, and I

flung off the influence with one effort. ' That has

passed ; you shall prove me what I wish to be held

in your thoughts. I have now to beg a courtesy

of you ; will you accompany me to a spot not far

from hence, and I will give you reason to believe

me worthy of some faith, and you, Count Leben

as one willing and capable of doing you service

? A word to your retainers, and they can

advance with the Lady Meta and Sit Adolf, or

can remain within hearing of thy signal if thou

shouldst think their aid is needed."

What is thy purpose in leading us hence?"

asked the Baron ; "is it of any importance beyond

proving thy truth?"

"To thee and to the Count it is," returned

Frank. " Them needs have no thought for a

clear path for yon fair couple — I will answer with

my life no molestation shall reach them between

this spot and their destination."

It was not so clear when wc left the castle

fbr Antwerp," said the Baron, laconically.

"Indeed!" exclaimed Frank ; " it should have

been. No matter, I promise thee now that it shall

be so — wilt thou trust me ?"

I will," said the Baron ; " I will but give a

few orders to my people, and attend you."

He spurred his horse as he spoke, overtook his

retainers, and gave the necessary directions. He

then returned, and Frank, leading the way, galloped

in the direction of a wood which lay to the

right. He was followed by the two nobles, who,

each silently looking to their weapons, suffered

themselves to be led into the wood. Frank plunged

into the thickest part and for a quarter of an hour

held his pace, passing through thicket and glade

over the soft green swahi without pausing; at

length, the wood growing thicker and the path too

tangled to allow Of so quick a progress* he reined

in his steed and proceeded slowly; He did not

turn his head once to see if he was followed until

he arrived before a tree of extraordinary girth ;

then he stopped his horse, and seizing a small horn

that hung at his girdle, he put it to his lips and

blew a blast. In the instant a man sprung from

a thick bed of flowers with which the spreading

roots of the tree were encompassed, and, without

a word, took the bridle of Franks steed in his

hand.

You will please to dismount," said Frank respectfully

to the nobles ; "wc must perform the

remainder of the journey on foot. Consign your

steeds to the care of this man, he will attend to

them."

The Baron exchanged a look of surprise with

Count Liebenstein, but made no remark. They

alighted from their steeds and, giving the reins to

the man, followed Frank, who, without pausing

further, dived into the recesses of the wood with

a knowledge of its locality, a swiftness of footwhich

rendered it difficult for the nobles to keep pace

with horn, and so far from doing aught to aid them,

he, if possible, increased his speed, until they suddenly

found themselves in a long alley or avenue

of trees, which, much to the astonishment of the

nobles, was filled with armed men. Still Frank

paused not ; he hurried down the centre, until he

bad more than half passed through it, and then

he stopped. He had hitherto been closely muffled

in his riding cloak, as also had the Count and the

Baron. He turned his head half over his shoulder

to see the effect which this scene had upon them,

and was gratified to observe the surprise which

they found it impossible to conceal. There were

between two and three hundred men lying, in all

parts of the avenue, in small groups ; some were

gathered round fires drinking, others were beneath

a wide tree telling wild tales or trolling rude ditties,

some looked with glittering eyes upon the

new corners, some were sleeping ; all, in truth,

were occupied in some manner of passing away the

time, as though that were the principal duty of life.

It was one scene of \\ wild, careless, lazy confusion ;

there was battle noise, but all seemed to be enjoying

themselves to their hearts content. Frank

suddenly threw back his cloak, blew three loud

blasts with his horn, drew his sword and elevated

it, and in an instant, the whole scene was changed.

An enchanter could not have created a more magical

effect. Every man sprung to his feet, arranged

himself in a line with his companions, and there

were all the men, in one minute, in marching order,

ready for service ; another wave of his sword,

and all of there glided among the thick clustered

trees, leaving the avenue untenanted, no vestige

of living being visible, save the fires and the wine

cups. The second movement had been as speedy

as the first, and the nobles were alone with Frank

Merritt crc they bad recovered the bewilderment

into which the sudden array of armed men had

thrown them into. Frank suffered them a minute

to recover themselves, and then said —

These men are at my bidding, even to death ;

a wave of roy hand is as sufficient to send them

forth to fight while life remains, as it is to have

any one who transgresses a law, hung from the

nearest branch of the highest tree."

Hast thou brought us to a den of robbers, and

art thou their chief ?" asked the Baron Hainault,

unmindful of the danger such a question would

have placed horn in with some men.

No, my lord," returned Frank, "I am their

chief, but these men are no robbers ; they are employed

in an occupation at least more worthy.

Were I to mention my right name, you, at least,

would not doubt the truth of my words."

Mark me, I ask the question because I see

that thy people wear the garb of some knaves who

favored me with insult on my road to Antwerp

from the castle of Gutenfels," said the Baron.

"I will see to this, my lord," said Frank, hastily;

no follower of mine dare — "

Nay, spare thyself trouble," interrupted the

Baron ; " they were punished for their insolence."

Pardon me, my lord, I too must see that they

were'punished, for the infringement of their duty,"

said Frank, and, as he concluded, he blew a blast

upon his horn. A man, habited like a captain of

a troop, made his appearance, and Frank instantly

said, " There have been false knaves among ye,

who have forgotten their duty ; have they been

discovered ?"

"They have," returned the man; "you sent

five men hither from Castle Idenberg — they were

all riotous, lying knaves, who but for your orders

wc should have scourged from us rather than have

admitted them to our fraternity. They would

observe no law ; they departed and came as they

list ; wc were obliged to keep them constantly

watched, expecting they would dishonor us. They

assaulted a noble and a knight at the inn of Goeth,

and were scourged hence ; Goeth, as he averred

since, gave us a false character to the noble to

prevent them staying the night, fearing these

rascals might join us with a lie, and induce, at

least, a portion of our number to do our fraternity

discredit. Goeth was not deceived; they did

return, but failing to substantiate their story, they

sought the inn during the night, contrived to enter

and murder the attendant, maltreat two females,

and set fire to the inn. I regret wc, who followed

them as soon as wc knew of their absence, were

only in time to quench the fire and seize them."

Franks brow lowered until his eyebrows nearly

concealed his eyes.

"Where are they?" he enquired, in a harsh

voice.

They are here," replied the man, leading the

way into a thicket. Frank followed, attended by

the two nobles, who both started, almost with horror,

at seeing the five men hanging by the neck

from the branch of a huge tree. In the trunk was

placed the fatal dagger which told whose terrible

hand had caused the deed to be done. Franks

brow smoothed, while the Barons lowered.

By what right hast thou attached to thine act

the symbol of the Fehm Gerichte ?" he exclaimed

hastily.

The right which makes it law for a sufficient

number of the initiated, shewing a criminal in the

commission of a crime, to hang horn on the spot.

Baron Hainault, I am Faust, the Reichsbiirger*."

Both Baron Hainault and Count Liebenstein

started back as he mentioned a name known allover

Westphalia as one of the most certain and

terrible executors of the vengeance of the Secret

Tribunal.

The red hand of the Fehm Gerichte?" ejaculated

the Baron, with a shudder.

Even he," replied Frank, with a melancholy

smile. " Judge me not harshly, Baron," he said ;

'* though 1 bear a title so famed and held so terrible,

i nine are not the hands which hurry criminals

to the other world as a retribution for the evil

they have done here : they are in yon glade, but I

am their leader, as you and the members of the

Tribunal, even to the Emperor himself, are mine.

Shrink not from me; if I have never suffered one

whose crimes have made horn execrated to escape,

when thy hand has signed the order for his doom,

shun me not, because, at least, I have had the 

thepower of saving banyan unjustly

denned, as well as travellers from murder,

and maids from dishonor. My name has extended

wide, but though it is terrible to the vile, tell me,

Baron, have you heard it questioned by the virtuous

? In strange scenes, in a short space of time,

you have met me, yet mine honor hath not suffered

in thine eyes, save that I consorted with thy brother.

I had a deeper motive in doing so than I

have yet explained ; you will know when wc meet

at the great assembly. I hold a position unenviable,

but blighted hopes in my youth made me what

I am. My temperament would have made me

either a fearful villain, or what I am — you see my

election. But enough of myself ; I have said thus

much only that you should believe I have a heart

and a conscience. I have both. I have preserved

them through desperate straits — I shall die with

them in my possession. Now to the motive in

bringing you here. You both know me — may

both trust in me ; you, Baron Hainault, will require

trusty hearts and hands in Antwerp to save

you from plans well concerted, impelled by motives

dishonorable, nay, most monstrous ; they

shall be there to serve and save thee. No man

shall know where they are, or when they will appear

; it is enough that they will be at thy side

when danger approaches. Count Liebenstein,

when the Duke Estevan makes his attack upon

thy castle, there shall be the uprising of thine

whole people, far and near, to oppose then. His

attempt will be made, as he expects, suddenly and

unexpectedly ; there will be friends to meet and

Native of a free imperial city, at that period a distinction

of which a true German was very proud.

frustrate the diabolical object, and again he will

have to rage at defeat and disgrace, brought upon

horn by a hand he fears, but knows not whence or

when to expect its coming."

He hath done thee some grievous wrong thou

hast said," observed Count Liebenstein, gazing

with a secret emotion of awe on the swelling frame

and glittering eye of Frank, as he exclaimed —

I was a boy, Count Liebenstein, when lest

an orphan ; an old friend of my parents took me

and brought me up. It was said I was gloomy

and sullen, because I was proud and reserved.

Feeling bitterly my dependence for home on the

bounty of one, who, forgetting the generosity

of his youthful feelings which had won horn to

my father's heart, embittered my every meal by

telling it was his ggifthatt — that without his bounty I

should starve, — bidding me, at the same time, never

be ungrateful. I wonder each day I was not

choked as I forced down my bitter, bitter pittance.

His conduct made my 'saviour gloomier than was

my nature. I hated him — I thought the world

like horn, and so hated it ; in return I was hated.

That I heeded not — it was just. One morning I

saw, in a solitary ramble, a young girl attacked

by a furious dog ; an impulse made me beat the

animal away, and I expected a harsh word for my

interference. It would not have surprised me,

for, I had been used to it. Instead, I received a

sweet flow of thanks ; it was a gush of sunshine

upon the gloom which had so long enveloped mc.

I could make no reply, but silently went my way.

I returned to the spot the next day ; I saw the

same maiden, and addressed her. — Why speak of

these meetings ? She was the only being who

had ever spoken to me gently, and treated me

kindly. I loved her with that love which is the

giving up of thoughts, life, soul — I worshipped

her. This Duke Estevan, by an accident, saw

her — saw as I had seen that she was very lovely.

She was carried off, was dishonored, and, in a

frenzy of agony and shame, she destroyed herself.

I learned this, and for a year I sought his life

without suffering one other thought to interfere

with that determination. He seemed to bear a

charmed life ; he escaped every effort I made.

Strange circumstances, wild and singular adventures

in the pursuit of my favorite project, have

gradually made me what I am. Still 1 have never

quitted the Duke, but I have changed my

mode of proceeding ; his life is a hell of torment,

he knows that I am ever on the watch ; every

project on which he has set his heart I have

thwarted ; he dares not be alone ! he moves not,

stirs not, where there is a possibility of bullets

reaching horn, that they do not whistle past his

ear. But I would not have horn yet die ; the agony

f expecting a dreadful death from an unseen hand,

•«mi a quarter no care nor vigilance can guard

gainst, must make horn suffer a portion of the

misery, of the torture he has inflicted on others ;

nd when that has reached its climax — which is

list approaching— then shall he die the death all

len in this land fear ; the red right hand of the

'■•km Gerichte shall leave its burning impress

n horn, and men shall shudder as they witness

he retributive justice of the Secret Tribunal, saying,

' not even his high station, and his swarms

1" retainers and dependants, could avert the blow

.hen their terrible award had been delivered.' "

He led the way from the thicket as he spoke,

nd paused upon the spot from whence he had

Displayed bis power over the men who had so singularly

and promptly obeyed his every gesture.

"My lord Baron," he exclaimed, addressing

Baron Hainault, " you know me better now ; I

ear not that you will distrust me, feeling that your

ait h will not be misplaced. Though not, in my

opacity as leader of these ministers of the secret

punishments of the dread Tribunal, under your

absolute command, high as your station in the So-duty

is, yet am I willing, in all ways, where 1 have

he means, to do you service. The Tribunal gave

ne a discretionary power — it cannot be better

.exercised than in endeavoring to prevent the

wrongs and injuries in preparation against you and

he Count Liebensteiu. One hah 0 of my people

shall, as I have stated, at once to Antwerp ; and

every act meditating against thy interest or happiness

shall be met, and its evils averted. The remaining

portion shall, if it so please you, Count

Liebenstein, to thy castle, and defend it in conjunction

with thy people against the attack meditated

upon it."

Both Baron Hainault and the Count Leben

thankfully assented to his proposition ; not

-imply because it offered them a certain addition

of men at arms to swell their numbers, but because

there was attached to this band a superstitious

power which rendered them, in the eyes even

of the bravest troops, more formidable than ten

times their number of common men. There was

a mystery attached to their movements ; they were

the secret agents of a power felt and seen everywhere,

yet never visible, except only on great occasions.

It was not, also, the fear of the men

done, but the dread of something beyond, that

made them tremble ; it was not the mere fear of

death in being opposed to there, but the horror of

a dreadful doom if any of there were killed and

their slayers survived, which rendered the power

of their band so great, and their aid so much desired.

It was not often they were seen in the

ranks of contesting nobles, but when they were,

victory was sure to crown the side they espoused.

The wild, ignorant, and superstitious trooper concluded

he was battling with a charmed race, for it

was reported and believed that every agent of the

Fehm Gerichte was protected by an invisible spirit,

who presided over the Tribunal and rendered

every member or agent invulnerable to mortal

power. It was supposed that spells and incantations

of the most terrific character were performed

upon the initiation of one desirous to become a

member, who if he had not courage to bear the

awful sights presented on that occasion to his eyes,

or was not of a fit nature or lineage — for even that

had much to do with the supposition in times when

it was not uncommon for families to bebeve one

member of it, either brother or sister, was a spirit

visiting the earth, and assuming that shape while

it remained —or worthy in other degrees, was

found dead, with distorted features and limbs, betokening

that death had taken place with dreadful

convulsions and agonies, leaving the mid to

conjecture the poor wretch had been subjected to

the most horrible ordeal. Frank Merritt, as wc

shall still call horn, upon receiving the assent of

the two nobles to his offer, summoned his men,

who obeyed with the same celerity of movement

they had previously displayed. His commands

were briefly delivered to there, and with a wave

of the hand they disappeared, leaving no trace to

mark their route.

I will lead you back to the path from whence

I brought you hither," observed Frank, when

they were again alone, " and then commend you

to Heaven. Wc shall meet again when ray presence

is needed."

"Tell me, Faust," said the Baron, thoughtfully,

why you sought ray brothers service, and why

you appeared in all matters to co-operate with and

assist horn ?"

That is at present a secret belonging to the

Fehm Gerichte alone," replied Frank ; " You

will know it when it comes before the general

council. I may not say more."

I am so far satisfied," returned the Baron.

I understand, also, that the Count Idenberg' s

delinquencies having been committed in the district

over which I preside, it was necessary for you

to require his citation from roe ; and 1 wait its

issue for the unravelling of extraordinary matters,

such as I could not have conceived, with such resignation

as God has given me, trusting that he

will not withdraw his right hand from my heart

while waiting for the dreaded detail, or fail in supporting

me when it comes with its heaviest weight.

I will seek to know no further upon this point

from you, but tell me, Faust, how comes it that I,

who have so long been no mean member of the

Fehm Gerichte should have never before met you,

though thy name has rung in my ears in all parts

of Germany."

Frank smiled something mournfully as he

replied —

"My life, my lord baron, was blighted in its

onset. I need not enter into a description of my

first entry into the service of the ' Secret Tribunal,'

nor my rise from a Sckdppen to my present position.

I have done the duty entrusted to mc.

That duty being performed in a different part of

the empire to that Over which you had power, I

was never brought in actual collision with you,

though often I have been by your side when you

deemed yourself alone. I have been with you when

you knew not other than a few proud nobles companion

thee. I have stood with thee in a throng

of simple peasantry, admiring, with them, thy benevolence,

and have fought in thy company hi the

feuds in which, not many years since, thou didst

take an active part. I have been present to thee

thou hadst no thought a member of the Tribunal

was near. Thought well known to me, Baron,

though thy virtues prevented my red hand,

as fare hath termed it, making me visible to thee.

Of all the summary justice and vengeance of

which I have been the minister, it hath so chanced

I have never been compelled, until now, to appear

in my proper person before thee ; and my object

now is, that thou mayst follow my counsel without

feeling thy dignity endangered, and so do that

which will ensure happiness to thy fair niece and

noble nephew, and, through them, to thee. You

did me a kindness, Baron, once, when the world

had its heel upon my throat ; I have never forgotten

it, but of that anon. The time has not arrived

for making that known, but the time is

always present to add, if in my power, to thy

happiness. I have but one thing more to say — it

is a request that you will still call me Frank Merritt

whene'er wc meet."

I will not forget it," returned the Baron, " or

to thank thee for thy good will towards my kin —

save my brother —

"she deserves it not," said Frank, hastily. The

Baron bowed his head, and concluded —

And to myself."

Frank Merritt made an acknowledgement and

led the way from the glade. At a slight summons

the man brought their horses who had taken

charge of there; they mounted, and were not

long in regaining the road which they had quitted

to seck the forest haunt. It was very early, but

it wa* broad daylight before they saw, even at a

distance, their troopers, who, though they had

progressed slowly, had advanced far on their road,

frank Merritt accompanied them until an old ivy

mantled turret that stood upon an eminence, overlooking

the waving Rhine, which lay a glittering,

silvery, sinuous line in the valleys beneath, appeared

in view not far from the road which they

were pursuing. Frank Merritt then made a movement

of respectful courtesy, which was courteously

acknowledged, and, spurring his steed towards

the tower, soon disappeared among the thick foliage

by which it was surrounded.

This, then, is he of whom, when men speak,

they shudder as they speak," observed the Baron,

when he was no longer visible.

And yet if they knew horn properly they would

hold horn in better estimation," said the Count

Liebenstein. " ' Faust of the Red hand has a

fearful reputation, but no man can say that he who

suffered at his hands was not a criminal of magnitude

richly deserving a worse death than he

received. He is a strange, a singular being;

there is yet more mystery to unfathora respecting

horn than has been revealed to us. May it be unfolded

without giving us cause for regret."

The Baron responded affirmatively, and they

rode on together in silence, each communing with

his own thoughts, until they overtook the Lady

Meta and the young knight Adolf. Upon joining

them several anxious questions were put respecting

their absence, and its cause, but neither

the Baron nor Count saw fit to give other than

evasive replies.

Towards evening, the castle, from which the

Baron and his nephew had so recently departed,

was gained. They were received by the seneschal

with surprise, though with courtesy. Count

Liebenstein remained for the night, being much

fatigued, purposing journeying to his castle on the

banks of the Lippe on the following day ; finding

it necessary to use speed in his progress, as Frank

had acquainted horn that Duke Estevan would order

the descent to be made upon his castle immediately

upon his return from Count Idenberg's

abode ; the frustration of his base design there,

making horn sieze the opportunity of visiting the

fury of his disappointment upon the person he

most hated. Baron Hainault, whose friendship

for the Count was one of long standing, and was

e'en such a friend as fits the true meaning of the

word, proposed accompanying horn and aiding horn

in repelling the attack. At first the Count would

not hear of it, though he warmly thanked horn for

the offer; but Baron Hainault persisted, and

framed his determination on the utility he should

prove to the cause of the Count, when the

Duke Estevan was summoned before the Council

of the Fehm Gerichte, by appearing as a witness

of the violence and wrong which had been at

least attempted by the Duke. Count Leben

offered no further opposition when the Baron

urged this point. The following afternoon, therefore,

unmoved by the fatigues he had already

undergone, the Baron, accompanied by his

nephew, took leave of his niece, whom he had

placed in the care of a foster-mother of the noble

whose castle they were visiting ; and, with the

Count, departed for his castle, which, aster a long

journey, they gained, and that before any demonstration

had been made by the Duke Estevan.

They were not long kept in expectation — the following

morning the warder announced the approach

of an armed troop, and preparations were

made to receive them — the drawbridge was raised

the portcullis lowered — the castle gates stoutly

fastened — and the walls manned. The assailants',

who were provided with cannon, advanced with

great coolness to the keep, although a heavy volley

was pointed upon them, and commenced attempting

to effect a breach. Before they could succeed a

sortie was resolved upon and made. It was observed,

during the commencement of the fight, that a

number of strange people had mixed with the

Count's people ; but the latter had imagined them

to be the retainers of the Baron, while his followers

supposed them to be the Count's. Little

notice was therefore taken of there until the sortie

took place, and then these men separated from the

mass, joined together, and fought with surprising

vigour : they were headed by a man of powerful

stature masked, who forced his way to the spot

were the Grand Duke sat on horseback, surrounded

by a number of his troopers, intently

watching the result of this sally. This stranger

made desperate struggles to reach the noble, and

at length succeeded : he seized the Duke by the

collar, dragged horn from his steed, and hurled

horn to the earth. Spears and swords flashed in

all directions to destroy the successful stranger,

when, dashing aside a few of those nearest to horn,

he hastily removed a cloak, and appeared in a

black vest ; upon the breast was emblazoned in

bright scarlet a hand, which held within its grasp

a dagger. A thrill of horror ran through those

who beheld it— their weapons were lowered, and

they instantly retreated. The stranger drew from

his belt a paper, and thrusting it into the trembling

hand of the prostrate noble, he exclaimed ina

loud voice—

I summon you to appear in the place and at

the time stated in the citation, in the name of

the Holy Fehm Gerichte ; disobey not, as you

would not peril soul and body now and for ever 1"

A groan burst from the Duke as he heard this

dreadful announcement, and a laugh of exultation

from his sumrooner echoed it ; the next moment

he gave a peculiar signal, and all the strange

men whom he led on the instant displayed the

same symbol he wore on his breast. Had a pestilence

suddenly fallen upon the assailants they

could not have fallen back with greater horror ;

the name of the Tribunal flew from mouth to

mouth, and the next instant the troopers fled in

confusion, bearing with them, overcome with terror,

rage, and discomfiture, the Grand Duke

Estevan.

CHAP. XVII.

It will perhaps here be proper lo say a few

words respecting the Fehm-gerichle, some of

whose mysterious and awful proceedings have

been introduced into this work, in order that its

nature, its operations, and its objects, may bo

better understood than by mere allusion to it,

Germany, in the commencement of the thirteenth

century, was one mass of anarchy, disorganization,

and confusion. Neither law nor order were anywhere

to be found. The richest noble was the

most powerful, because he could keep the most

troops, and became the possessor, by force, of

the neighboring estates ; thus adding by violence

and rapine, to wealth gained usually, in the first

instance, fortuitously. This unprincipled mode of

robbery led to scuds between nobles of pretty

equal strength, inasmuch that one not unfrequently

obtained possession of an estate which paid tribute

to the other. An appeal was instantly made to

arms to decide which should retain possession of

the disputed territory. These sanguinary quarrels

had, of course, their attendant evils : no one

in humble circumstances was safe ; his house was

in danger of constantly being plundered, his wife

and daughters dishonored, and he beggared, without

redress. Even nobles themselves were subjected

to the same terrible visitation. Might made

right. The strongest took the wealth, and the

weakest went to the wall. As, however, the

wealthy were always, and have ever been — unfortunately

for us sons of Adam — in the minority,

men who had somewhat to lose without strength

to keep their wealth from the rapacity of some

neighboring noble, and some who had lost all and

lived only for revenge, united together in secret

to punish those who injured them. They were

bound together by oaths of the most fearful character,

sworn to secrecy, and to obey the orders

of those forming a council, though the devoted one

was a brother or friend. Soon it began to be observed

that those committing great crimes were

"to be found hanging upon trees which bordered

villages, or in some conspicuous place in the village

itself. No eye had seen the deed done that

could speak of it ; no one knew by whom or 

had been done. At first, the obscure ruffian

suffered ; then, those who were higher in station

and as great in villany became victims ; until nobles

themselves were found to be punished by the secret

hand of retributive justice. They quickly began

to be feared; the haughty Baron, steeped in crimes

of rapine and bloodshed, would be fallen upon in

some lone place, where a whim only had taken horn,

and destroyed, shewing he had been closely

watched until his hour had arrived. Even within

his castle walls, surrounded by retainers, the

silent but sure hand would come, which would lay

the evil doer low. It was found that none but the

guilty suffered, and men who were good and honest

lifted up their heads from the oppression they had

too long endured, and felt that if they had been

trampled on there was now an end to it, and future

wrongs would be redressed. The secret fraternity

increased their numbers until the close of the

fifteenth century, when they were at the highest

pitch of their power.

Their members were from every part of Germany.

They were classed : every district, had its

chief, entitled the tribunal lord, who held a court

for his district, beyond which his power did not

extend. Next to the chief were the fermented

and chopped ; the latter, who were the largest

number, were in the first stage of admittance into

the Secret Society. They were, when candidates

proposed by two members, who, on oath, vouched

their fitness to be admitted. They were of two

descriptions — nobles and peasants or merchants.

The former became in time the tribunal lord, but

the latter never went beyond the position of a

fehmenote : but this was of little consequence

where the strongest power was justice. When a

chopped was initiated into the secrets of the society

and became & fehmenote, it was performed

with strange ceremonies, some of a wild and fearful

character, which have never accurately comedown

to us. A solemn and tremendous oath was

sworn by the chopped kneeling, with the thumb

and finger of the right band placed upon the blade

of a sword and a halter, " to conceal the holy

Fehms from wife and child, father and mother,

from sister and brother, from fire and wind, from

all that the sun shines on and the rain covers,

from all that is between sky and ground," and all

things imaginable, in a list too long here to insert.

The duty of the initiated was to serve the citations

upon the denounced, to discover crime and

its perpetrators. If the criminal was taken in

the fact by three chopped, he was at once hung ;

if it happened that one only saw horn, or that be

had not been seen, and common report attributed

to horn the commission of the crime, he was denounced

by one of the initiated. If a man of any

respectability, he was cited, and served with the

citation by two chopped, sometimes openly, but

usually in a clandestine manner, in order to strike

horn with more awe. If he were a ruffian, a fellow

who had no abiding place, four summonses

were fixed at a cross road, each with a piece of

imperial money, and the service was esteemed

good ; if when cited the denounced did not appear,

he vt&sforfehmed with a fearful curse ; all the initiated

throughout the land were called upon to aidin

his death, his name was registered in the " blood

book," and he was seized wherever he was met

with, hung without an instant's delay, or, if he

resisted, was cut down, slain, and dragged to the

nearest tree, a knife was stuck beside it, to shew

that he had not fallen in a brawl or by the hands

of thieves or robbers. Those who vterefoifehmed,

and in no way connected with the society, had no

opportunity of knowing their doom until it came

upon them like a blast of thunder. The serving

of a citation was not always, in the first instance,

an easy task : a noble surrounded by troops,

within the walls of a strong castle, defied the

members, and destroyed those who summoned horn

to appear by hurling them from the ramparts into

the moat beneath. To meet this case it was sufficient

for a chopped to affix the summons to the

castle gate, to cut a chip from the latter as a proof,

and to inform the warder of the citation being

there that he might convey the intelligence to his

lord ; and woe to horn who refused to obey it I

Many and various was the places where theFehm-

gerichte met, but if an accused appeared, and he

was found guilty, he was instantly hung ; there

was no time allowed between the delivery of the

sentence aud its execution. If the guilty party

happened to be afehmenote, his gallows was seven

feet higher than any other, because he was esteemed

the greater criminal.

There was not a province in Germany but had

its tribunal, all of which were tributary to an assembly

at which the Emperor presided, and which

was held once each year, unless the trial of some

high criminal demanded a special meeting. At

this great Tribunal those who were high in rank,

or were guilty of high treason only, were heard

and judged, and from this there was no appeal ;

the proof, therefore, had to be clear and undoubted,

and substantiated by persons in no way interested

in the event. This assembly was public, held in

the open air in some bright, green place, where

there were waving trees near, and broad blue sky

for a canopy. In these cases, where the accuser

had to appear as well as the accused, it might have

happened that those convicted were, though

punished, not doomed to death ; such events did

occur but rarely. The accuser would, therefore,

if encountered in some by-place, be in danger of

the vengeance of those whom he had denounced,

or their friends. To prevent this, it was made

instant death, without mitigation, to molest them

at any time, or under any circumstances. Indeed,

in every feature this society was to be dreaded

by those who did ill, and feared by all whose

inclining prompted them to evil but who had

not the courage to follow their inclinations ;

but those who were honest in their acts, upright

in their dealings, well-intentioned, and open in

their conduct, had little cause to fear. It might

have so happened, that an innocent person was

wrongly accused, but there roust have been strong

evidence either with respect to their position with

the act of which they were accused, or previous

bad character if they were condemned. Liable,

however, as this tribunal was to abuse — strange

and mysterious — nay, awful as were its proceedings,

still there was a secret feeling among the

poor and oppressed of satisfaction and security in

its existence. The wronged, however humble,

had at least the consolation, if they applied to this

terrible fraternity of knowing that, however high

their oppressor, his rank would not screen horn

from being compelled to make some good atonement

for injustice ; and the lowest ruffian, in spite

of cunning and obscurity — of being the denizen of

the forest amid hordes of villains, could not count

upon a secure moment, when once his crimes had

attracted the attention of the Fehm-gerichle.

It maybe imagined that in a state of society

when "the German nobles retired to their gloomy

castles, whence they darted, like birds of prey,

upon the travelling merchants, or waylaid each

other for the perpetration of every description of

outrage;" when "murder, robbery, rape, abduction

went unpunished ;" when, " in the midst of

general depravity and anarchy, the authority of

the laws, both civil and ecclesiastical, gave way to

force, which, in the hands of ignorance and rapacity,

threatened society with dissolution," it may

well be imagined that such an institution was a

great benefit to society at large, and to such an

extent was it felt to be so, that its numbers were

daily added to by all classes of the community,

until its power and extent became enormous, and

its means of acquiring knowledge of crimes and

delinquencies unbounded and unparalleled. The

highest in the land enrolled themselves in the society,

that they might claim its protection from

foes, secret or otherwise, or league with a power

which they could not resist and dared not oppose ;

and those of a humbler class became chopped

that they might be preserved from wrong, or be

righted speedily if they had been sufferers. No

combination of this nature that ever existed was

more powerful than the Fehm-gerichle of Westphalia,

not excepting the Holylnquisition of Spain,

the Assassins or Israelites of the East — perhaps

the most sanguinary on record — or the Knights

Templar. When a man was doomed to death

by the council, there was no hope for horn on earth.

Every member of the tribunal, whether son, father,

brother, cousin, or friend of the criminal,

was sworn to put horn to death by the dagger, the

sword, or the rope; and all persons of whatever

degree of relationship or rank, who dared to harbor

horn after his doom had been pronounced, suffered

a like punishment — the vengeance of the

tribunal for such an insult, as it was looked upon,

to its authority, being visited upon " man, woman,

.or child,nobleor plebeian, freeborn slave, house

or farm, monastery or nunnery." Theproccedure

with a condemned criminal was strange, but far

more awful than the present mode of treating one

in that situation : — when found guilty, the condemned

was dismissed from the tribunal, set at liberty,

and forewarned that no living power could

avert his fate. After that hour, when and wherever

three chopped met him — were it his three

brothers in his father's house — be the relationship

what it might, or the locality however private or

sacred, he was dragged forth and hung on the

next tree, while the dagger on which was engraved

the symbol of the society, the four letters Ses.

Gag. (the meaning of which has never been discovered)

was stuck in the trunk of the tree, that

it should be known who were the punishers, and

that neither body nor weapon should be removed

but by them that placed them there.

This society was peculiarly fitted for the barbarous

times in which it arose ; it was the natural

offspring of confusion, insecurity, and disorder.

The same feeling of self-preservation which, in

the first instance, impelled the weaker class of

human beings to unite, so that they might successfully

resist the oppression of those individually

stronger than themselves — the same motive which

originally caused our primitive ancestors to combine,

and thus commence society, brought the

Fehm-gerichte into existence. So long as there

was no political power, so long the Tribunal

reigned with unlimited sway ; but when centuries

advanced, aud men grew enlightened, the superstition

which had been peculiarly attached to

everything connected with this society gradually

faded, and it began to sink to its proper level.

The laws were better administered and better

observed without the interference of the Fehm-

gerichte. From this time it degenerated, and from

punishing acts of oppression and villany, its members

perpetrated them ; those who were denounced

by them were enabled to take protection of the

laws and laugh their power to scorn. They ultimately

became the subject of public indignation,

were denounced as " seminaries of villains," and

were ultimately abolished, by order of Jerome

Buonaparte, in the year 1811.

To conclude this brief notice of the Fehm-ge-

richter, which it has been deemed necessary to

give, that the reader might not look upon their

deeds introduced into this slight [tale with incredulity,

wc quote the words of the author of a well

written history of there :—

Though up to the present century a shadow

of there remained in some parts of Westphalia, they

have long been only a subject of antiquarian

curiosity, as one of the most striking phenomena

of the middle ages. They were only suited to a

particular state of society ; when that existed they

were a benefit to the world — when it was gone

they remained at variance with the state that succeeded,

became pernicious, were hated and despised,

lost all their influence and reputation,

shared the fate of everything human, whose character

is instability and decay, aud have left only

their memorial behind them."

CHAP. XVIII.

Assisted by Heinrich, Caspar, and one or two

others, Flors, who still fata nd weak, and was

not suffered to walk, was borne swiftly forward

for some distance until a solitary cottage appeared

in view. Thither he was carried, and was induced

to partake of refreshments, which, in some degree,

restored horn in a short time to comparative

strength. Quintain studiously avoided any question

which involved an explanation of the attack

upon the tower. He saw how frequently they

arose to the lips of the painter, but our hero pressing

upon horn food and wine contrived to escape

the close interrogation which was intended for

him. While thus employed, one of the smiths,

who had been engaged in the expedition, entered

the cottage with an air of sudden haste. He

advanced to Quintain, and said hurriedly, in an under

tone —

All Antwerp is up ! the (burning tower has

removed the hoods from the eyes of the townspeople

which sleep had placed there, and they are

running to andfro as though the city were burning.

There are some imperial troops who arrived tonight

in the city ; they are arming, and preparing

to scour the country round. The burgomasters

are gathering together, wondering what had best

be done, without one of their number being able

to give the slightest counsel. The cathedral bells

are ringing, as you may hear — in truth the whole

city is in an uproar."

"How learned you this?" asked Quintain, knowing

that his informer had not had time since they

parted to visit Antwerp himself.

From one who has just quitted the city," he ,

replied ; he is a friend who would have joined us

with right good-will, had he been acquainted with

our purposed deed. He, however, judged, when

he saw the blazing tower, whose handicraft was

displayed ; and fancying wc might be unprepared

to meet the efforts made to discover us unless

cautioned, he contrived in the confusion to slip

out at the city gate unperceived, and put us on our

guard. He was, of course, quite aware that the

delivery of Meinherr Flors was our motive for

visiting the tower, and he was quite sure it would

not have been set on fire until he was rescued ;

he therefore advises, if you know of any retired

place some few miles hence, that you carry Mein-herr

Flors there, and secrete horn until his innocence

is clearly established. He counsels a quick

determination, and its speedy execution."

I know but of one place," said Quintain, " and

that is the convent of St. Francis ; the prior is a

distant relation, and would serve me well and

faithfully did I ask his aid."

Where is this convent?" asked the smith.

Upon the other side of Malines," returned

Quintain.

The Very place for safety," he observed ;

little or no clue will be obtained to you there ;

you had best away at once. There are several

horses at hand — I will hasten and prepare two for

you."

He waited not to hear a reply, but quitted the

cottage. Quintain informed Flors what had transpired,

but it was not until he had strongly urged

the necessity of following this course, to ensure

horn from again being seized and imprisoned, that

he could induce horn to consent to quit the vicinity

of Antwerp. His thoughts dwelled upon his

daughter ; it wa* the absence from her which

made horn reluctant to leave ; indeed, so strong

were his feelings upon the point, he would almost

rather have returned to his prison and be

near her, than be far away and at liberty. Quin-tin's

reasoning, however, at last convinced horn,

and he mounted the steed which was brought for

his use in order to proceed wherever our hero

should guide him. Quintain delivered a few, but

important, instructions to Caspar Hauser and

Heinrich, and then, with Michael Flors, departed

towards Malines. He took the precaution of

making his route as little likely to be observed as

possible, but as Flors was unused to the saddle,

and withal not over strong, he was compelled to a

slow progress. The morning sun was shining

brightly over the hills, though, to say truth, it had

only just made its appearance, when he entered

the gate at Malines ; a number of peasantry were

proceeding into the town, and among them he

passed with his friend unobserved. He sought

the roost retired hostel in the little town, and there

alighted ; he remained there to recruit the strength

of Flors until the sun was beginning to decline,

and then once more they set forward. They had

but a few miles to journey crc the convent was

reached, and when within a mile of it, he requested

his companion to wait for horn in a cluster of trees,

while he galloped forward and made his arrangements

with the prior for his safe retreat with him.

Flors assented, and Quintain started on alone ;he

quickly gained his destination. The porter was

pacing to and fro in front of the convent walls.

A few words obtained for horn an interview with

the prior, and almost as brief a colloquy concluded

the terms of Flors rcceival. Quintain was not one

to waste time where it was valuable, and rejoined

the painter before the latter had given horn credit

for having reached the convent. Once more they

journeyed on together, and in a quarter of an hour

were safely lodged within the convent walls. It

was Quintain's intention to return to Antwerp immediately,

for he had promised the painter, if

it were practicable, that Agnes should join horn

there. To accomplish this without a clue being

obtained to Flors' retreat, would necessarily be a

matter of stratagem, and that not of a common description.

It would require some little forethought,

as well as time, to concert and arrange plans

which should prove successful, and therefore it

would render his stay with Flors proportionally

short. He fixed his departure at an hour before

midnight. It was possible to return to Antwerp

without passing through Malines, and he resolved

upon pursuing this new path, so that the chances

of detection might be less. He announced his

purpose to Flors, and tho old man, though it

would be the means of gratifying the desire he

had of enfolding his daughter in his arms, was

loathe to part with him. There was, however, no

remedy, and he reluctantly acquiesced in his departure,

expressing in warm and earnest words

his thanks for what he had done, and what he purposed

doing. Quintain had, for the purpose of

freer discourse, sought with the painter the cloisters

of the convent ; here, unobserved and unheard,

they could communicate their thoughts and

make arrangements for the future ; here they

could each talk of Agnes — a delightful theme

to both, though the old man little thought with

what eager ears and burning bosom Quintain drank

in every word in her praise which he fondly uttered

— he little thought that the youth who walked

by his side loved his child with a devotion, a passion

rivalling his own ; in truth, the sentiments

of our hero to the fair Agnes had appeared to

Flors to be rather of a cool nature — yet not so

cool as of an indifferent character. This had a little

touched his pride, and rendered his praise of her

more fervent, more enthusiastic, than it certainly

would have been, had he known the true state of

the case. It was in the pursuit of this pleasing

theme that they wandered beneath the arched

cloisters, one talking with fond earnestness, the

other listening with devout attention ; the moon

was rising silently Up in the broad clear sky, seeming

to bring with it a stillness which has been

peculiarly and aptly described as religious. No

sound save the low mvrmvr of the old man's voice

and their slow footsteps sell upon their ear, no

human being was visible, no bird or bat disturbed

the quiet air ; all was strangely, solemnly still,

impressing, unconsciously to there, a feeling almost

of awe upon both Quintain and Flors. The

latter had descanted fervently upon the sweetness

of his child, and had paused as though to enjoy the

luxury of thoughts which the subject had raised

thoughts which had no words, a communion

with the heart which had no audible voice. To

Quintain such a pause was equally desirable ; he

too could dwell upon the subject with an eloquence

of thought no language could reach. It was even

in this moment of attraction that a strange hand

was laid upon the shoulder of Flors. He started

from his reverie, and, in the deep shadow of a

pillar which he was just passing, there stood a figure

of a man habited in black, with his face

masked. In a deep hollow voice he exclaimed,

while his hand still grasped the painter's shoulder,

Michael Flors I"

Quintain was also roused from his dream of

bliss by the sudden cry of astonishment which the

old man made, as well as the exclamation of the

stranger. Upon the impulse of the surprise he

clapped his hand to his sword, and, at the same

moment, his arm was seized and another voice of

a similar tone exclaimed loudly —

Quintain Matsys !"

He turned his head instantly to behold a man

dressed in all degrees exactly the same as the one

who had addressed Flors. A strong shudder

went through his frame as he gazed upon the mysterious

being, and he knew who were by his side

before the first said, in the same thrilling tones

he had at first used —

Michael Flors, I summon you in the name of

the holy Fehm-gerichte, to appear when and

where this citation commands you, and fail not to

appear as you would peril body and soul now and

for ever I"

The same speech was addressed to Quintain, and

each received a citation with a piece of imperial

money. Their mysterious summoners glided

noiselessly away as they concluded, and when, a

minute afterwards, Quintain gazed in the direction

they had taken, there was no trace of there visible.

A pause of a few minutes ensued ; both were lost

In extreme astonishment. At length Flors broke

the silence :—

The singular character of the circumstances

which of late have enchained me is increasing in

mystery," he exclaimed. "To what can all this

tend? For years have I passed evenly and

smoothly along the path of life ; is it towards its

close that I am to encounter the ruggedness which

I have been taught to suppose lies at the commencement

? If so, where is the roughness to end

in the grave ? Merciful Heaven ! if lam to

finish my pilgrimage in a thorny path, at least

spare my beloved child all pain, all sorrow, all

misery ; let the tenor of her way be calm and

happy, and heap upon me what weights of care

and agony thou wilt, I will not chafe or repine.

Hear, oh hear me !"

He clasped his hands and uttered his prayer

with such singular earnestness, that Quintain almost

feared this sudden and additional source of

anxiety, would be too much for his brain to

bear. He therefore said warmly —

Cheer thee, my dear friend ; never let this

summons weigh upon thy spirits, though it is from

the terrible Fehm-gerichte. Wc know ourselves

innocent of all crime, and it is tho guilty alone

who should fear the dread tribunal."

'• I fear not for myself," returned Flors, speaking

with more firmness, " I am equal to whatever

may happen ; a clear conscience will always bring

me an easy death-hour. As far as lam concerned,

I feel not — think not for myself; it is my

child who is the source of all my care, my anxiety,

and my despair, — but I will trust in heaven,

and hope for the best. The Fehm-gerichte have

no terrors for me. I know that lam liable to be

doomed, though unconscious on what grounds,

for I have seen fearful instances of their holding

a man culpable, and worthy of death, who deemed

not he had committed what could have constituted

a crime. From their decree there is no appeal,

and though I have not, knowingly, done

aught which deserves death at their hands, still I

will stand prepared, falling even cheerfully, if I

can be assured my daughter will be in a position

to bring her happiness, when I live no longer butin

her memory."

If such are thy thought respecting this tribunal,"

said Quintain, " what should be mine, who

stand committed far deeper than thou ? But I

have a clear breast — I deem what I have done

justifiable. If I am to be punished for it with

death, I will not die tamely — butthat is a consideration

for the time, when it comes. If the members

of this tribunal — who seem to be everywhere,

and to know all — judge justly, I fear not

an acquittal. I will appear at the place and time

named here, and trust in God and an unstained

soul for the issue ; but come what may, I will defend

my deed, nor shrink from the consequences.

And now farewell. I see by the moon the time

has arrived for my departure ; your wishes, in all

things, shall be obeyed to the extent of my power.

God be with you."

'• And you, my dear young friend," cried Flors,

grasping his hand with affectionate earnestness.

Farewell ! when next wc meet, may it be under

happier influences."

"Amen!" ejaculated Quintain fervently. He

entered the convent with Flors, and taking his

leave of the prior, who promised to show the painter

all consideration, he put spurs to his steed and

galloped swiftly towards Antwerp, lighted on his

path by the broad, bright moon. As it was not

possible for horn to return through Malines without

being stopped at the town-gate he resolved to

take a path which, though it involved a greater

distance, and was lonely even to dreariness, yet

would prevent horn being stopped for some time

and questioned with a closeness which, if his participation

in the liberation of Michael Flors had

got wind, would be far from satisfactory. He

was not very well acquainted with the route be

had chosen, but feared not that he should miss the

way while the light of the moon remained unobscured.

As he galloped on, he kept the gate at

Malines, which could be seen from a long distance,

in his eye, and made it serve as a land-mark. He

was well mounted on a strong black steed, which

had been provided for horn at his own request by

the prior, his own being too tired to perform

the journey at the rate he wished him. The horse

needed little urging to proceed swiftly ; his natural

pace was very fast, and there was something

in the clear fresh air, and the bright moonlight

which seemed to infuse vigor and spirit, into his

every movement. Quintain, though unable to be

borne along thus rapidly without feeling some

sympathy wi h the animus of his steed ; had yet

too much food for reflection to possess much

buoyancy of feeling. Hitherto the situations in

which he had been placed had occurred so rapidly,

and had, in every degree, so compromised horn,

that he had not properly had time to consider what

path he ought to have chosen — what line of conduct

pursued. The whole tenor of his previous

life had been without any great or decided feature ;

it had, to a certain degree, possessed stirring incidents,

but none which could at all compare with

the events which had lately taken place. There

was one vast and important change in everything

MICHAEL FLOIIS AND Quintain MATSYS SUMMONED TO APPEAR BEFORE THE ' PEHM-QERICHTE.'

which could add to the happiness, or was connected

with the every-day detail of his future life.

He was in love : it was not the mere impulse of

passion or ideality— the effervescence of a romantic

nature, as light and quickly departing ; but the

true and stable love which a warm and honorable

heart feels for one It deems worthy of its best affection

and esteem. This was not, sanguine ashe

naturally wa, likely to be returned — to be rewarded

as he cour fondly have wished. There

was in that one portion of knowledge sufficient to

render horn b? No means calm or happy ; there

was, also, the strange mass of circumstances in

which he had recently been engaged, in which his

safety was, in many points, involved. There was

also, last, though not least, his citation to appear

before the tribunal of the fehm-gerichte. This

occupied his attention with much interest and

some anxiety ; he did not look upon it so lightly

as he endeavored to make Flairs believe. He-connected

Count Idenberg with the accusation, whatever

it might be, and was aware that the power

and influence of the noble were go great, that unless

he could well explain his motives in the deeds

he had done and participated in, and establish his

innocence clearly on any false points of the charges

which might be brought against horn, a long life

would not be his lot. Yet for this he had less

care than might have been supposed ; without

Agnes Flors life would, he felt, be of little value

to horn ; and as the thought crossed horn he heaved

a sigh, and prepared to meet his fate with a calmness

and resignation worthy of the noblest and

bravest. By this time he had passed Malines,

and guided his horse to the road which led direct

from that town to Antwerp. He soon reached

it, and proceeded along it, too deeply buried in

thought to observe whether he had been watched

or pursued. The way was lonely, and when he

arrived at a part which was bordered with high

banks, a man, who had concealed himself in the

dear shadow which they cast, Sprung suddenly

from his lurking place and, raising a musket which

he bore to his shoulder, fired at him. The bullet

whistled as it sped past horn close to his ear, but it

did not touch him. His horse started to the side of

the road, rearing and plunging with a sudden violence

which nearly unseated horn ; he, however,

succeeded in obtaining a speedy command over

horn, and spurred horn to the spot where his assailant

was endeavoring rapidly to reload his musket.

Quintain gave horn no time to complete his purpose,

but, with his sword slashing in the air, called to

the man to yield or he would cut horn down. He

was answered with an oath, and an effort was made

by the ruffian to dart from the spot, in order that

he might succeed in loading his piece. He ran

swiftly, but Quintain was not behindhand, and overtook

horn crc he had reached a dozen yards.

When the ruffian found himself foiled in his intention,

he seized the musket by the end of the

barrel and, using it as a club, endeavored with

the butt end to bring our hero to the earth. Quin-tin's

command over the steed enabled horn to bring

horn swiftly round and avoid the heavy blows

made at horn, and deliver, at the same time, cuts

with his sword in return ; these were parried

with some dexterity by the man, who wielded his

weapon with great facility. The evolutions of

both were rapid, and had hitherto proved successful

to both, as neither were yet harmed. The

ruffian, enraged at this, aimed a desperate blow

with the butt end of his musket at Quintain's

body, which he barely avoided ; he, however, in

return, made a powerful cut at his opponent's

head, which, but for his tall hat, would have severed

it in twain. The hat was cut in halves, and

the man leaping aside from a second cut, which

was fast following the first, cast the mutilated remains

of his hat from horn and, uttering the most

horrible imprecations, swung the musket round

his head and, darting forward, renewed the attack

with an energy which predicated victory, unless

Quintain could disable him. The horse reared as

the man rushed up, and though our hero with

difficulty kept his seat, he met the fellow's advance

by a blow which would have slain horn had it not

been encountered by the musket ; and such was

the violence with which the latter descended, that

it shivered the sword in two and left our hero defenceless.

He did not wait to receive the next

blow ; but, swiftly disengaging his feet from the

stirrups, he slid from the horse's back and, dashing

at his assailant, grappled with horn crc he

could make the sanguinary use of the musket which

he designed. The stranger foe was, in all respects,

of larger person and power than our hero, but

desperation frequently lends a strength beyond

what nature has bestowed, and enables, in such

situations, the less to compete in some degree

successfully with the greater. The instinct of

self-preservation in a moment of imminent danger,

more especially when the powers are not qualified

by cowardice, adds to the physical force an amount

of strength and endurance which, in other situations,

is incapable of being called into action.

Thus it was with Quintain Matsys ; he was struggling

for life with one whom he knew not — it

seemed a common robber ; and as death usually

followed the attacks of these ruffians, the motive

for victory was sufficiently strong for horn not to

consider the calibre of horn with whom he had to

cope. All he had to look to was to conquer his

opponent, and to exert all the strength of which

he was master to accomplish this feat. He thought

not of his size, nor his superior power ; he had

but one idea — of flinging horn to the earth and

placing his foot upon his neck. Fiercely and desperately

they struggled, each essaying his utmost

to throw the other ; no words passed, save an oath

which occasionally escaped the lips of the ruffian,

as, aster the roost tremendous exertion, he sailed

in dashing our hero to the ground. But that

which strength failed to accomplish, an accident

brought to pass. In wrestling to and fro, twisting

and turning, Quintain's foot encountered a

mound of earth ; he staggered over it ; his assailant

followed up his advantage ; he threw his

whole weight upon horn, and it was more than

Quintain could resist, and both fell heavily to the

ground. The ruffian was uppermost; as quick

as thought his knee was upon our hero's breast

and his huge hands and long fingers twining, like

the deadly folds of a serpent, with strangling compression

round his neck. In vain Quintain grasped

his wrists with the strength of a death struggle to

remove them — tighter and tighter became their

compression, a terrific sense of suffocation oppressed

horn, he could feel his eyeballs ready to

start from his sockets. Madly he grasped and

endeavored to tear away the vice-like grip which

was robbing horn of life ; but with ebbing life his

strength faded, the sky became a mist, there were

thronging sounds in his ears, a vision of his moon



two powerful members of the Fehm-gerichte;

his arms were bound, but he still wrestled with

those who were proceeding to despatch horn to the

other world, and displayed the enormous strength

he possessed in causing them the greatest difficulty

in completing their operations. At this moment

the figure of a man appeared upon the top of the

bank just above the spot where the preparations

were laing made to speed the ruffian to eternity,

and no sooner did he perceive what was going on

than he slid rapidly down and begged the awful

ministers of justice to pause crc they inflicted the

doom upon the wretched being in their possession.

He ought to be my prize," he said anxiously.

Days, nights, weeks, I have followed horn in the

hopes of capturing horn, and some accursed accident

has enabled horn always to escape mc."

He will escape no more," replied one of the

chopped briefly.

If you will entrust horn, bound as he is, to my

charge, I will take care he does not," exclaimed

the new-comer, eagerly.

Seek not to interfere with the members of the

Holy Fehm-gerichle," said the same member of

the Tribunal who had before spoken, " unless you

would grace the side of the doomed here."

I do not desire to interfere with your proceedings,'

' returned the man, in a humble tone ; " I

know the dread power of the Tribunal you serve,

and, as all men must, I respect it ; but lam Peter

Vanderwesel — I am he who takes cognizance for

the burghers of Antwerp of all knaves and rogues

who do wrong or violence deserving of death in

the city, and whom they try by their own laws,

without troubling your awful Tribunal. They

give a very handsome reward for all who have

been guilty of great crimes, and this knave in

your possession, Steinhart or Ruprecht Schmidt

as he is called, has murdered a rich citizen at the

instigation of a brother of the murdered man,

who, by the commission of this crime, has come

in for all the property ; but he has not enjoyed it.

He saw the crime committed, and the bleeding

figure of his brother having haunted horn day and

night, he has confessed his guilt, given his money

to the Convent of St. Mary, and is awaiting the

sentence of the law, which tarries only for the

production of this man ; who, being the murderer,

can complete the evidence which at present is

wanting."

Still wc cannot part with horn until wc have

done justice upon horn," said the scope ; "wc

caught horn in the commission of murder, and

though he did not succeed, through our interference,

he is not the less culpable nor the less

doomed. Our laws admit of no evasion ; wc are

sworn to administer justice upon horn whom wc

Take in the fact, in despite of any other law, civil,

military, or ecclesiastical. No power save heaven's

may interfere, nor Church, nor Emperor.

You have my answer."

And I lose the only hope I ever had of living

in comfort and happiness for the future," exclaimed

Peter Vanderwesel, dolefully ; " the reward

would have enabled me to quit this harassing

life, and live in virtuous retirement. Ah, well !

I suppose it was not to be, so I must resign myself

to my lot as well as I can."

He concluded with a sigh and was about to walk

slowly away, when the scope who had addressed

horn said —

Stay ! evidence attested by us as witnesses

is held valid in your law courts ; you may yet obtain

your reward and enjoy the future.' ' He then

turned to Steinhart, who, having found it useless

to struggle, was now sullen and motionless,

awaiting with dogged despair the death he knew

nought could avert. " Answer such questions

as I shall put to you," exclaimed the mysterious

being to horn, " unless you would suffer everlasting

perdition ; for if you refuse what I now require,

all priests, all churchmen, high or humble, and

all good laymen shall couple thy name with a curse,

and, in their daily prayers, require thy utter damnation

; all hope of hereafter shall be utterly drawn

from thee, and thou shalt perish in a few minutes

with the terrible conviction on thy soul that thou

wilt suffer the tortures of the damned for ever —

for ever."

In spite of the ruffianism of Steinhart' s nature,

he could not help shuddering at the frightful

doom thus threatened him — uttered, too, as it was,

in a tone hollow and solemn ; which, with the accompanying

circumstances, made it peculiarly appalling.

It was attended also with a curse

pronounced by the scope, of an awful nature,

which, combined with the other, had the effect of

breaking down the gloomy apathy which Steinhart

had previously evinced. When, therefore, the

scope asked horn the particulars of the murder,

he gave them so circumstantially as to render the

evidence easy, and Peter Vanderwesel's chance of

reward almost certain. When that was concluded,

the scope said —

What more have you to disclose crc the world

is shut out to your eyes for ever?"

"I murdered the Countess Idenberg," he replied.



Whom ?" cried Quintain, so far recovered as

to be able to pay some little attention to what was

passing.

Peace," cried the scope. "If thought permitted

to hear, thou must be silent."

Steinhart turned a sickly glance at the pale face

of horn who had so near been added to his list of

victims, but removed it instantly, and continued —

I received a large sum of gold from the Count

Idenberg to slay his wife while walking in the

woods which border his castle. His motive I

know little of, save that he said something respecting

her loving his brother. This, however, I

cared not for ; I did my work on the innocent or

guilty for gold. I had it — that was enough. I

should not perhaps have disclosed this matter, but

that the Count did not like my possessing his secret,

and sought to kill mc. I was too cunning

for horn though ; I kept out of the way of horn and

his people, though 1 still hung about his castle,

hoping to meet horn alone. But that's done with

whatever more you want to know in this matter,

you must obtain from one who was in the Count's

service, but who, like me, having possession of

some of the Count's secrets, was doomed by horn

to death. There were some papers and a picture

which were upon the Countess when I stabbed

her ; these I found, and have given them to horn I

speak of — one Frank Merritt."

Again Quintain made an exclamation, which

was as speedily repressed by the scope, who

exchanged a look with his companions. No remark

was, however, made by them, and the scope

then said —

What more hast thou to say ? Be speedy —

thy hour has come."

Aldebert Count Von Haalst is worthy of the

vengeance of the Fehm-gei-ichle, for though the

member of a tribunal in his own district, no man

upon whom the vengeance of the society fell ever

deserved their doom so richly as he does. His

father's death was by poison, administered by his

son. His seneschal, Rupert, can give you information

of that, and some other crimes. He stepped

once between me and that which might have made

me a better man ; drink and gambling followed

his act, and I swore to revenge it before I died in

some horrible fashion. I have missed many opportunities

for the sake of gratifying my love for

the dice and wine ; it is now too late, but I leave

my revenge in your hands. It was he who carried

off the painter's daughter, and though foiled

in bearing her to his castle, is still devising means

to get her into his power. He has also an eye

for the sister of a smith in Antwerp, one Quintain

Matsys ; she is to be carried off, and the brother

is to be killed. The Baron Hainault is also to

fall by the dagger or poison, and more is planned

to be done that I wot not of. These last are to

be victims of revenge — it is for you to prevent

them. I have only one thing to request of you ;

let horn die the death of a dog — hang horn on a

gallows. Oh, if I could but live to see that hour,

I should die satisfied at my fate."

If you have spoken truth, such will be his

fate," said the scope. " Have you more to

say ?'' he rejoined.

There is my brother Schmidt, of the old

mill—"

You need not trouble yourself about horn,"

said Peter Vanderwesel ; "he is safe in the heart

of a deep dungeon, loaded with chains, and will

shortly grace a tall gallows."

That ends my dealings with this world," said

Steinhart, drawing a strong breath, clenching his

teeth, and dilating his nostrils. "Do as you will,

and if there is a God who pardons sinners, however

criminal, as priests tell us he does, then may

he have mercy on roy soul I"

Amen !" responded all present.

Steinhart closed his eyes, as though to shut out all

signs of his doom, which was now with rapidity

and facility carried into execution. Quintain turned

with a sensation of horror from the spot, and a

few minutes had scarce elapsed when the hand of

a scope was laid upon his shoulder. As his head

moved round to observe who was about to address

horn, he saw the form of the wretched Steinhart

swinging to and fro, having suffered a death similar

to what he would have inflicted on our hero

for the sake of a sew gold pieces which it was his

purpose to rob horn of. He knew not that he was

the person he had been commissioned by Von

Haalst to slay, and was therefore punished for attempting

an act of villany on his own account —

an act which he had not the excuse of being

tempted to commit by the wish and the gold of

an employer. He turned from the sight with disgust.



Do your eyes quail at tho sight of the administration

justice ?" said the scope, in a tone

of rebuke. "Do you turn from beholding that

which should give you cause for self-gratification ?

It is well for thee the members of the Fehm-

gerichte were by thy side in thy struggle ; thou

wert on the borders of the valley of death when

wc dragged yon ruffian from thy throat, and dost

thou shudder to see the just retribution which has

overtaken horn ? Learn to look with a bolder eye

upon an act of justice and shrink from a deed

of infamy. Quintain Matsys, though cited to appear

before our solemn Tribunal, fear not ; there

are friends who will not let false accusers prevail,

and act thou as thou wouldst have done bad no

such citation been served upon thee. Before thou

dost depart, know that thou wert suffered to hear

the confession of yon villain who is now swinging

dead in the night air, because it might enable thee

to know how to be guided in the course thou art

about pursuing, and also because thou hast for a

friend one whose power is great. Take this horn ;

do not use it unless in extreme danger, or thou

hast the greatest occasion for aid; then blow three

blasts — it will bring friends to thee. Farewell !

yonder is thy steed — mount horn, and let thy journey

to Antwerp be as speedy and as cautious as

may be. I need say no more to thee."

He turned hastily from horn, as if to forbid a

reply, and rejoined his companions. Quintin,who

knew he had not to deal with people who would be

trifled with, obeyed the counsel given horn, and,

obtaining possession of bis steed, mounted horn and

made the best of his way to the cottage from

whence he had departed with Flors. He gained

this in secrecy and safety ; here he learned the destruction

of the watch-tower had created a great

sensation in Antwerp ; that he had been publicly

denounced as the author of the outrage, and a

heavy reward had been set upon his head, and

spies were sent out in all directions to endeavor to

trace and capture him. Some of there had found

their ways to the smithies, where they and their

purpose had been detected, and which discovery

had obtained for there such a trouncing as they

were not likely either shortly or easily to forget. The

popular voice had applauded the destruction of the

tower and the rescue of the painter ; there had

been a band of artisans, of no mean number, who

had assembled in front of Flors' abode and given

three hearty cheers to testify their sentiments upon

his deliverance, and those sounds were very gladdening

to the heart of Agnes, who knew by such

welcome manifestations that her father was free.

Ah ! she needed not the hint, slight as it was,

which the affectionate sister of Quintain whispered

respecting horn who had robbed the prison of its

prey ; her heart told her too well who had done

it, and some thought that for her sake he might

have hazarded all the peril attendant upon such

an enterprise, rose up in her mid with a balm-like

sweetness, which made her happy for the moment

it lasted, and then a vision like a black cloud

crossed the sunny thought and shut out its light

from her heart, leaving her, though she knew her

beloved father was liberated, still a prey to sadness.

She had sought the window to thank the

honest men for their kind cheers with a smiling

face, gladdening them with a sight of her beauty ;

yet the smiles her face at first wore at the joyous

news, and the no less dear thought which accompanied

it, passed away before the cheers subsided,

and she retired with an aspect as sad as she had

worn hitherto. The burghers of the city, who bad

felt themselves insulted by the proceedings of Count

Idenberg with respect to Michael Flors, as much

for taking the cognizance of the affair with which

he was charged out of their hands — for though the

Count had been an imperial commissioner, it was

his duty to have examined Flors before the magistrates

of the city — as for the alarming precedent

it made, viewed the destruction of the tower and

the release of the prisoner with secret satisfaction,

although they did not consider it politic to display

their feelings upon the occasion. The spies sent

abroad were myrmidons of the Count's, whom he

ordered to discover who were the perpetrators of

the attack beside Quintain Matsys ; and wherever

they were met with they were to be captured ; or

if too strong in numbers, their locality to be

marked down, and a troop was to be afterwards

sent to secure them. Their success had been far

from gratifying, and not at all commensurate with

the expectations of their employer. Quintain

learned enough at the cottage to teach horn how to

act, and sought the repose he so much needed with

the resolve not to shrink now from the responsibilities

he had incurred. It was mid-day before

sleep quitted his eyelids, and then he arose

refreshed. He first directed his steps to the

smithies ; there was the clink of the hammer upon

the anvil resounding on all sides with every indication

of industry, and none which hung out even

a hint of what had the night before transpired, or

that among those who so busily labored there was

not one who had not been engaged in the transaction.

Quintain's appearance was greeted with a

more silent, but not a less hearty welcome than

usual ; it was known among them that spies were

abroad, and they were anxious that they might not

by any thoughtless testimony of their pleasure at

the sight of their young leader, make the prying

knaves aware of his presence among them; though

by the way, it would not have been well for any

of there to have made their appearance with the attempt

to capture him — a short shrift and a speedy

death would have been his fate. Those were not

times when men considered much how they should

dispose of one obnoxious to there, the more especially

if they had what they considered justice on

their side. Quintain's purpose in seeking them

was to call into action a mode of communicating

with every member of the band of which he was

leader, that they might hold themselves in readiness

for immediate and dangerous service.

The band of Predecessors, of which he was

the chief, was not a new society; more thana

century and a half had passed away since

its establishment. It had, like many other

bands of the same description in the principal

towns in Germany, been called into

existence by the Fehm-gerichle. It consisted

entirely of young men under thirty ; when a man

reached that age, his connexion with the band

ceased, and though after that period he was never

refused their aid in any way if he required it, yet

he was no longer an enrolled member. None

were admitted younger than eighteen, and the

leadership, which was held only for three years,

devolved upon horn who displayed most skill in

various feats of arms, which, upon a given day,

were essayed. It had been Quintain's fortune, or

rather his merit, on the day of trial to surpass

every competitor, and, consequently, to become

the leader. The actions and duties of the band

were to prevent any act of tyranny, oppression, or

villany, occurring in the city. To the city and

citizens their deeds were confined, and any outrage

coming to their ears, was usually promptly and

speedily avenged. At a time when there were no

proper means of enforcing the laws, and, in fact,

scarce any laws at all, such a band was a great

benefit, for it was made an important feature that

in all their actions they should not be guilty of

any unjust or base deed. Any member who

violated this understanding was scouted from the

band, unless his act had been very flagrant, and

then he was seized and, upon the principle of the

Fehm-gerichle, he washing a member, punished

with more severity than any other delinquent.

The members were mostly engaged in trade, and

lived in various parts of the city. The mode of

communication referred to was this ; — in whatever

part of the city occasion arose for the aid of the

band, the first member knowing it, communicated

to the member dwelling nearest to horn in the direction

of the city, and returned to the spot where

the presence of the band was required ; the member

thus acquainted flew to the next nearest

member, informed horn and then hurried to the

scene of action ; the third the same, the fourth,

and so on, until the centre of the city was reached ;

then it was from that point spread every way.

Thus there were always members hurrying to

join their comrades while the intelligence was

spreading rapidly among the members, without

putting the whole city in an uproar ; this last was

a matter of much importance, where it was necessary

that any act requiring secresy of movement

was about to be undertaken. An oath of the

most binding nature attached the members together,

and he who broke it had bitter cause to repent

it. In these times, when the lawless spirit

of the nobles induced them to commit base outrages,

it was a gratifying sight to the citizens to

know that " the Predecessors " were out ; for then

they knew the wrong would be surely and speedily

redressed. Thus was it when the Baron Otho, a

noble who possessed a gloomy castle upon the banks

of the Rhine, and very little else, commissioned a

party of retainers to carry away the pretty daughter

of the burgomaster. They were seen accidentally

by Quintain Matsys ; he spread the news

among the members of the band, and in a few

minutes they were to be seen following horn in

hot pursuit of the villains, accompanied by the

cheers of the citizens and the glistening eyes and

prayers of the maidens ; and when they returned

in triumph, the applause they received in thanks

and smiles was sufficient to have turned half their

heads, and to cause the band to swell their numbers

until their power became very formidable in

Antwerp.

Quintain Matsys had not made use of one twentieth

of their number in his attack upon the watchtower,

but it was his intention now to let them

know, if they were not already acquainted with it,

what participation he had in it ; and also bid them

hold themselves in readiness for the struggle

which was likely shortly to ensue between the citizens

and the nobles. The effect of this communication

would be, that he had no need to fear

being seized and imprisoned, and when the time

arrived for the service of the band, they would

appear well accoutred and appointed for deeds

of arms. From Heinrich, Quintain learned everything

in confirmation of what had been told horn

at the cottage where he had slept, and with horn

arranged the necessary means of communicating

with the band, which, having completed, and having

also stated bis intention of shortly rejoining horn, be

partly changed his attire for the sake of a disguise,

not wishing at present, to run the chance of being

seized, and by the most retired streets and alleys

sought his home. Glad indeed was his mother to

set her eyes upon him — when was she not glad to

see horn ? Fain would she have prayed horn to

seek a quieter life, but she perceived that it was

no time to speak of such matters, and so she welcomed

horn with the kind voice, and the smile

which never failed to illumine her brow when he

was present. To the inquiries which he made respecting

Blanche, he found that she had not

returned, but that Caspar Hauser had brought a

variety of messages from her — " That same Caspar

Hauser was a good youth," quoth the dame ;

a pleasant, kind, well favored youth ; a very

amiable, good-hearted youth ; a honest, well-meaning,

and well-spoken lad truly." It was marvellous

how high Caspar stood in the graces of the mother

of his best beloved ; and how had be accomplished

it? Why, he had smiled with her, jested with

her, talked and paid her attention ; he had spoken

praisingly and with manly honesty of her son,

and, ah ! how he had praised her daughter. He

had made himself agreeable to her, and when was

there a time that a kind heart was insensible to

the efforts of a good-natured soul endeavoring to

A

f

<



■



.1 1

r

s,

t



i,

\

make itself liked. This same Caspar Hauser

worked very hard, and worked harder to find the

time to see his own beloved Blanche as often as

possible ; and now she was from home, which, by

the way, was not exactly to big taste, he was sure

she had much to say to her mother which she

was not able, without his aid, to convey to her,

and he knew how anxious her mother was to hear

from her — at least, he satisfied himself that she

was ; and who so fit to carry the message as himself?

Of course he waß pleased to see Quintain,

because the very sight of horn involved news, and

that of importance, which, of course, it was his

duty to lose no time in conveying to the source

he supposed it would be most interesting to ; whom,

not knowing the state of Agnes Flors' feelings towards

Quintain, he concluded naturally to be his

sister Blanche. To do horn justice, there was,

besides this feeling, one of personal gratification

mingling with it. He was glad to see horn, and

had fifty questions to ask horn concerning the

events which had befallen horn during his absence ;

and when these were satisfied, and Quintain spoke

of visiting Agnes Flors, then Caspar, who vividly

saw the necessity for his going there also, said

that it would be the most unwise thing he could

be guilty of to go without him.

"Men," he said, "had his name in their mouths.

Count Idenberg had caused the offer of his reward

to be well circulated, and there were many unprincipled

knaves in the city who would conscientiously

enrich themselves at the expense of

another's happiness with the most perfect readiness.

Two swords in a hazard like this were better

than one," he argued ; " and as it was

important to see the maiden, it was equally important

to take such precautions as would ensure

that being accomplished."

This was a species of reasoning which Quintain

could not, situated as he was, very well controvert ;

and as he knew the motive which had occasioned

it, he did not wish to controvert it. Accordingly,

together they departed. It was a strange feeing

of pride, amounting almost to a weakness, which

made Quintain doff the guise he had worn from

the smithy to his own home, and habit himself

in a dress which did not conceal from any

eye the real form and bearing of the wearer. Perhaps

it was, that men should not say he feared to

meet the consequences of his act ; perhaps it was,

that he would not give his foes that chance of

sneering at hir n; perhaps it was, that he would not

have Agnes Flors think he shrunk from any action

which might bring her peace of mid, let the

danger to himself be what it might. It is not unlikely

the last had the greatest influence over him.

Best as it may, he dropped all disguise, and dressed

with a little more than his usual care. As they

passed along, several eyes were turned upon them

recognizing, but no further notice was taken of

hir n; one or two shook their heads, as if deprecating

this bold behaviour — others gave an approving

look. As they passed near the market-place,

they observed a cluster of persons assembled round

a wooden pillar which stood there. Quintain made

an exclamation of wonder at the cause for this

assemblage.

I think wc had better hasten on," said Caspar.

"If I mistake not, the reward for thy person

is attached to yon pillar."

I will read it,' said Quintain ; " I should like

to know in what terms I am described,"

Perhaps It is as well not," said Caspar; " you

may be recognised, and the evil-minded may be

stronger than those who would do you service."

I fear them not," said Quintain ; " I will have

a struggle for my liberty if they attempt to seize

mc. However, I'll read the paper."

Nay, if you fear not, I care not," said Caspar.

I am with yon wit for you, go where you may,

end come who may."

A friend's speech, and uttered sincerely," responded

Quintain. " I will use thy aid if I require

it."

I should think you would," said Caspar,

briefly, but meaningly.

They approached the pillar, and mixed among

the crowd assembled round it. It was some little

time before they could get sight of the paper, and

Quintain's surprise was considerable upon seeing

written in a large hand — "To the friends of

justice. The Predecessors have seen a placard

offering a reward for the capture of Quintain

Matsys. They have determined to justify the

act for which he has been denounced. Let, therefore,

all who are, and would be, friendly to the

Predecessors, when or where they may see Quin-tin

Matsyß, recognize horn with no other than a

friendly eye, nor greet horn with other than a

friendly hand, as they value the good will of those

whose aid and vengeance are not to be despised."

Quintain read the paper thrice crc he could believe

his eyes — Caspar the same. The latter came to

his recollection first, and squeezed his friend's

hand heartily.

That is sufficient," he exclaimed. "To satan

with precaution ; all Antwerp will side with you

before any one dare touch you."

Before Quintain could reply, several of the readers

recognised him. Some muttered, "he is a

bold youth ;" others " who will dare touch horn

now." Some exclaimed " the Predecessors have

done their duty, and he has shown them the way."

One voice cried, "a cheer for Quintain Matsys,"

/

followed his example, anAbriekly ******* A* -m-

perialgnard. Tbe'people, ijho had: eton* hesitatingly,

anxiously looking mi,now,*ith «ne,accnrd,

drtiw swords and knives and threw. themselves

upon the soldiers, wto,.fiadbig: they were much

out-numbered, flung down their, arm* Ard , fled,

pursued for some distance by the peoples .Quin-tin

did not join in the pursuitv.thoughi much he

longed to have punished the fellow who hadgajed

so insolently at Agnes when he. hadirntWe. Flors

prisoner, and who, on the present occasion, proved

himself the most nimble of his party— wearing

afterwards, that his desire to obtained reinforcement

had alone induced horn to exert, such; swiftness

of foot. The smith who had aogaUant)y.*e-

sister the destruction of the paper approached our

hero, and, thanking horn for his aid*BtHdr-.! )■>!/

"It will be as well— you will excuse my counsel,

but it is honest— not at present to shpwywr-

self too freely; wc are not quite ready foe a

revolt, and your capture will be the signal for it.

Retire therefore, Meinherr, at dnce.-before'these

fellows return with a large force. ; I will q u ic kl y.

disperse the friends who sided, with us, and; if

they tear down yon paper, the* shall be another

np before they are out of Bight»",ijd« ltd ya'ib

Quintain shook his rang* hard, and promised to

follow his advice. At this.rowni.nt the, artisans

aud citizens returned; Quintain was recognised

and three cheers were given him. A few words

. ■ ■ . , ' V.«„ At

and the whole party instantly gave a cheer. aM

this moment, a party of the imperial guard passed,

led by the same officer who had captured Michael

Flors ; he paused at the cheer, and proceeded to

ascertain the cause. As soon as he read the bill

he proceeded to tear it down, but a tall, swarthy-looking

fellow, whom Quintain instantly recognised

as one of the smiths, very unceremoniously seized

horn with the thumb and finger by thefchin, and thrust

horn back with a force almost sufficient to dislocate

his neck. The officer, who carried a large

halberd, when he recovered his equilibrium, made

a blow at the smith with it ; he, however, caught

it in his iron hand and, with the greatest ease,

twisted it out of the soldier's grasp. He instantly

placed it against his bent knee and broke it in

half, and with the butt end delivered a blow upon

the officer's head which made the street echo

with its sound. With a shout of anguish, the

officer ordered his soldiers to fall upon the smith,

and, drawing his sword, set the example, by rushing

at him. The smith stood his ground manfully,

and kept the officer at bay with the broken

halberd; when, however, the soldiers attacked

horn, he was obliged, in order to keep bis enemy

before horn, to retreat and act on the defensive.

The soldiers pressed horn hard ; and he stumbled

and fell upon one knee. That instant Quintain's

sword flew from its scabbard, and be received

upon it the blow destined for the smith. Caspar

from horn, however, repressed their enthusiasm,

and listening quietly to his thanks and wishes,

dispersed as he desired them, and, followed by

Caspar, he pursued his way also, without further

incident, to the residence of Flors. When, as the

smith had predicted, the officer returned with a

force considerably augmented, there was not a

soul near the post. He gratified/his rage by tearing

down the bill. He had no alternative but to

depart, and on doing so, the face of our. hero recurred

to his memory. It occured, tdso, that he

rememberer having seen horn at the residence of

Flors. He did not 'know who he was, but he

thought it not unlikely he might meet horn there,

and accordingly directed the steps of himself and

soldiers thither.

Quintain, on gaining the house which contained

the only treasure he coveted, ran swiftly up the

steps, and finding the hall-door ajar he pushed it

open, and hearing a voice in a low tone of supplication

in an ante-chamber adjoining the hall, he

entered it, and found Bertha qh her knees, before

a fellow who was threatening her with instant

death if she made-au-outcry ,,. She uttered a

shriek of joy at the sight of our hero, and he

darted at the fellow who stood over hcr, seised

horn, and flung horn to the ground — the suddenness

of the attack enabling horn to accomplish this

feat with ease. As quick as thought Caspar Hauser

'ratted horn over, knelt upon his back, and,

with strength as well as rapidity, fastened. the fellow's

arms with his own sword belt. - ■ -

"My mistress— my dear young mistress," cried

Bertha, hardly alio to articulate, from the hysterical

feelings which her situation, and this sudden

change in it, had produced. "She is above

stairs— fly. to her aid, for the love of tho Holy

VirgHiir* .v v. ;.,t-j.:- .; .-.,. ; ,/ ■■ r

No further adjuration was necessary. Quintain

darted up the stairs with the speed of an arrow,

followed by Caspar Hauser. On reaching the

door, he was startled by hearing the voice of his

sister Blanche, uttered in a tone of great excitement,

exclaim . I'll' ,•«•,,« f ;,. . #

"T swear by all that is sacred I by the Holy

Mother of our Saviour ! if you advance one step

to lay your ruthless hands upon this maiden or

myself, I will bury this knife in your heart. Stand

back," she shrieked, " or your blood be upon your

ownsouL" . .',, ,

No more did he wait to hear. — he rushed into

the room. There he beheld his sister, with a

bright dagger in her extended hand. She stood

erect, her eyes stashing fire, a wild energy pervading

her whole frame. By her side crouching,

weeping, was Agnes, the picture of fright and

horror. Before them stood Von Haalst, attended

by a fellow who had already felt the weight of

Quintain's arm — even the same Graafenberg who

had previously made the attempt to carry off

Agnes. Quintain waited scarcely to see the figure

of the Count, but rushed at hir n; he was, however,

forestalled by Caspar, who seeing Blanche

his Blanche in danger, leaped like a lion across

the room at horn whom he supposed to have offered

insult to his beloved. The strength of a

dozen men seemed to possess him. He waited

not for the use of his sword, but struck Von

Haalst down with his fist, and with such force that

he lay stunned. Graafenberg, as before, fled.

Quintain dragged Von Haalst up, but seeing he*,

was insensible, he removed horn from the chamber

to the one beneath, where his myrmidon, with a

most rueful face, sat bound. Here Von Haalst

recovered, and as soon as consciousness returned,

Quintain Matsys, who, from an exclamation which

had fallen from his sister, had become acquainted

with his name, said —

Count Von Haalst, I will not disgrace the

floors of this abode with blood so base as thine,

but if thou art not as paltry a coward as thought a

villain, thou wilt meet me at sun-set a mile from

the town, and there, with your life, defend the

villany you have committed, and art still desirous

of committing, upon one who is too high in every

human virtue to consort with thee. Quit this

abode on the instant, if thou wouldst not be kicked

like a bound from its door."

To paint the rage and fiendish passion which

convulsed the frame of Von Haalst as these bitter

words fell upon his ear, is impossible ; he would

have given up everything, even life itself, at that

moment to have been able to wreak the vengeance

which burned like liquid fire in his breast.

But he was unarmed, and Quintain's bright blade,

unsheathed, flashed in his eyes. He gnashed his

teeth — he could find no words to say. He worked

his fingers convulsively, and looked with eager

anxiety, right and left, fora weapon upon which

he could dart, and with it strike our hero dead ;

but nothing met his longing gaze. At length he

forced out hoarsely —

Base born ! dost thou think I, a noble, will

meet thee, single banded, in a field, to account to

thee for acts it may have pleased me to do ? No,

churl! but though capricious fortune now bast

given thee the upper hand, I will strike thee down

wherever I meet thee, or, failing, cause my people

if they encounter thee, to slay thee and fling thee

into a ditch, dog!"

Quintain's blood mounted to bis temples, but

he kept down the strong anger within horn, and

forced a calmness he did not seel.

I am free born," he said, proudly, " and not

so base in thought as thou art in deed, by a world

of crime. Were it needed, I could prove to thee

as much, coward and parricide !"

Von Haalst turned as white as death ; he staggered

as though a violent blow had been dealt him.

He ground his teeth with an acrimonious vehemence

that threatened to grind them to powder,

and, advancing a step, said, though he could with

difficulty force out the words —

Thy name — thy name ?"

Of what import can that be to thee ?" asked

Quintain.

I will meet thee where thou hast named," he

returned, in a hoarse voice, " but I would know

whom I am to oppose."

Quintain Matsys," replied our hero.

Thou — thou ?" he cried, with intense earnestness.

" Why," he added, with a hoarse laugh,

I will meet thee, and that joyfully — joyfully 1

There is one tree on a piece of waste land some

mile or so to the lest of the east gate ; I will meet

thee there — the victor alone shall quit the spot."

Even so," returned Quintain, with a stern, yet

calm brow.

Without another word he rushed from the

house. Quintain set his myrmidon at liberty, cautioning

horn that wherever after this time he met

horn, he would deliver horn over to justice. The

fellow took the hint, and slunk away as quickly as

his employer had done. Quintain then returned

to the room in which he had lest his sister and

Agnes, accompanied by Caspar, who had been witness

to the foregoing colloquy, and who, within

his own mid, had vowed the one left behind in

the duel should not be Quintain.

It seemed that Quintain should not have an opportunity

of addressing Agnes, for at this moment

Bertha hurried into the room, and cried, as she

wrung her hands —

Oh, dear mistress — oh, meinherr ! the same

soldiers who carried off dear master are at the

door. I have bolted it and locked it to keep them

out, but they threaten to break it open unless they

are instantly admitted."

This was a piece of intelligence which filled all

with dismay. The first thought which run through

Quintain's mid was a long imprisonment, and,

consequently, utter inability to prove of any protection

to Agnes from the vile schemes and machinations

of Von Haalst. He pressed his hand

to his head for some happy thought to help horn

out of a dilemma which threatened to prove more

formidable than any into which he had yet fallen.

Caspar Hauser looked aghast ; he had been as

active as Quintain in the affray in the market-place,

and therefore equally as amenable to the laws. It

was not for himself he cared, but to bo kept pent

up in some horrid place where he should have no

chance of seeing Blanche — perhaps never see her

more, was too much to be reflected on with philosophie

resignation. Both females had looked

eagerly into the countenances of the two young

men, to draw some consolation or counsel for proceeding,

and were struck with fear by the confusion

which they both exhibited. Blanche was the

first to break the silence.

Quintain," she exclaimed, " why dost thou look

so disconcerted ? Have you cause to fear meeting

these soldiers ?"

*' Not for myself, Blanche," he replied, " do I

fear ; let them wreak their worst upon me, I despise

and defy them, but I sear the peace and happiness

of our gentle friend Agnes will be compromised,

if there are none near to protect her

from the plans of a villain who will spare nor time

nor perseverance to effect his object. The rescue

of Michael Flors last night has caused a reward

to be laid upon my head ; an affray this morning

with these same soldiers as I came hither, hath

also rendered me subject to their power ; if I am

taken, I shall, therefore, not be able to be of that

service I could desire. This, and this alone, embarrasses

mc."

A loud and violent knocking, accompanied by

the clamour of voices, interrupted his speech ; and

.agnes half shrieked as the rude noise burst suddenly

upon her ear. Turning to Quintain she exclaimed,

in a beseeching tone —

Think not of me, but fly while yet you have

a chance of escape. You have released my father

from a miserable prison, and I am sure you

would not quit horn until he was in some place

where harm could not reach him. Do not destroy

the pleasure which that knowledge brings tome,

by suffering yourself to be taken and imprisoned

for rendering horn so great a service."

*" I cannot think of leaving you to be subjected

to the insolence of the fellow who commands this

troop. I have not forgotten his insulting glances

when last here — he is not likely to be more respectful

now. Of what nature are the fastenings

of the door ? Are they strong ?"

Oh, yes," cried Bertha, eagerly, "it would

take a great deal to break in the door, I can assure

you."

I will go and see to there," said Caspar, suiting

the action to the word, strongly influenced by the

observation respecting the insolent glances of the

officer, which he resolved he should not indulge in

levelling on Blanche while he was present without

exceeding danger to his eyes. He came, at

the same time, to the conclusion that, unless

j Blanche accompanied horn from the house, not a

foot would he budge, whatever the hazard.

During his absence Quintain listened to reiterated

requests to make his escape, in silence. He

suffered argument upon argument to be urged,

both by Agnes and his sister, without opposition

and without comment ; indeed, the whole of his

faculties seemed absorbed in Listening to Caspar

retreating footsteps, and for their return. Not

long was he kept in suspense : the light foot of

his friend came leaping up the stairs, and its owner,

with some sudden glee, was humming an air as he

entered the room, his face lit up with smiles.

Well," exclaimed Quintain, impatiently, "what

have you discovered?"

That the door is strong enough to keep out

an army, armed only as those rascals are without''

returned Caspar. "It is solid oak I fancy, and

is cased with iron ; there are also strong iron

bands, a diagonal bar of iron as strong as you,

could wish it, plenty of bolts, and a stout lock, all

of which I nave made the best use of. Ah !" he

added, as the heavy blows of the soldiers' weapons

upon the door broke in upon his speech, " you

may knock, but you will knock a long time before

the door will be polite enough to give way to you."

"I am glad to hear this," said Quintain : "it

will at least give us time to concert what had best

be done." Then turning to Agnes he observed,

You advise me to fly — what other outlet is there

beside the street entry ?"

There is one by the garden gate," she returned

quickly ; " it leads, by winding, narrow passages,

to the river side."

Is it approachable in any other direction," he

enquired.

No," she returned.

No," said Bertha, " it's very few people that

know of it ; it runs between the backs of all the

gardens, and ours is the only one that has a gate

in the garden wall."

I forgot to tell you," exclaimed Caspar, suddenly,

** that I saw the burgomaster Vanderneer

talking in a pretty loud voice to the officer at the

door, and there's a great many citizens clustering

round horn and the soldiers, who don't appear to

gaze on the troopers with a very friendly countenance.

I think I recognised among them some of

the faces who looked not with sleeping eyes or

bore lazy hands in the skirmish as wc came hither."

This was a piece of intelligence of much importance

to Quintain — not the least, in consideration

of its presenting to horn a mode of proceeding respecting

Agnes, which had been the principal cause

of his perplexity ; his countenance brightened,

and addressing Agnes in the same soft rich tone

which he always, though unconsciously, used when

speaking to her, he observed—

■ The burgomaster is a good friend ; he will

not suffer violence or oppression to be exercised

beneath his eye without effecting all the opposition

in his power. The officer now at the door must

convince horn that he has good authority for his

proceedings, or he will not suffer horn to continue

them ; a word from horn would bring five hundred

citizens to scatter these imperial troops like dust

before the breeze. He is a friend of thy father's,

fair Agnes — a good one and true ; and I think

that, wert thou to take shelter beneath his roof

until this cloud hath passed from before the sunshine

of thy father's path, thou wouldst be safe,

and, so far as kind attentions and the possession

of every comfort; — nay, luxury, could contribute

to your happiness, you would be happy. The burgomaster's

kindness of heart is unquestionable—

his hospitality equally so ; he would give you a

warm welcome, and remove you beyond any

chance of insult or wrong from such knaves as he

whom I encountered here as I entered, or horn

now without. The burgomaster's amiable daughter,

too, would strive to shew thee those attentions

which most soothe and console one circumstanced

as thou art. I had indeed, until this thought

struck me, intended to have offered thee an asylum

in my own poor abode, where my dear mother

and my sister should have striven to have made

the tenderest sympathy, care, and assiduity in

ministering to thy comfort and happiness, compensate

for the humbleness of the asylum."

I would rather, if it is necessary I should quit

for a time this house, accept thy generous offer

and remain with thy sister, whom I love as dearly

as though she were tied to me by the closest relationship,"

said Agnes, quickly.

It is necessary that you should quit here, for

I promised thy father that he should see thee if it

were possible, without danger to thee or to horn,

to accomplish it. In the house of the burgomaster

you will have better opportunities of gratifying

a wish dear to both of you ; you will also be better

protected, for, upon consideration, since there

is a ban upon me, it is more than probable that

our house will be visited by those who hope to

capture me for the sake of the reward, or watched

from all points by knaves actuated by a similar

feeling. There is now an excellent opportunity

for you to depart unobserved and unmolested ; I

will undertake that the burgomaster shall send

one or two trustworthy persons here, who will

protect everything placed beneath their charge

until the return of thy father."

Still I would rather— if thou wilt extend thy

invitation yet to me — take refuge beneath thy

roof," said Agnes, with some earnestness. " I

j cannot bear to part with thy sister ; it is selfish, I

admit, but her superior mid, her energy, and

withal, her generous sympathy and her gentleness,

leave so won upon me — have proved such a stay

and solace in my present unhappiness, that I

would sacrifice much to retain her by my side."

I need not tell thee how proud would be my

heart to receive thee under my humble roof," said

Quintain, his voice trembling a little as he added,

I may not tell you what self sacrifice I make in

persuading you to accept the protection which the

burgomaster can afford you ; but Ido it in the

firm conviction that I am best considering your

safety and happiness by such counsel. That my

sister has shewn the ' generous sympathy,' which

you rate so highly, but which is simply the duty

of one fellow-creature to another, I can well understand.

I may unhesitatingly say, I never knew

her unkind ; but you will find there will be the

same spirit of kindness in the gentle heart of Adeline

Vanderneer, the same tenderness and amiability

; she will make you as happy as lies in her

power, and be glad of the opportunity of doing

so. I have had occasion to know that I speak not

unadvisedly."

I doubt it not," said Agnes, a little sarcastically,

but made no other remark.

"I am sure my brother counsels for the best,"

observed Blanche, a little struck by the tone, and

nature of Argues' remark. " Did he think that

our home would be safe for thee, no other place

would have been named for thy reception. I feel

flattered and much gratified by your kind thoughts

of me, dear Agnes, and do assure you your love

is returned equally and truly ; and in tho full

strength of that love, which would be grievously

pained to see thee in any danger, request thee

earnestly to follow my brothers counsel. I am

very sure you will find a kind friend in Adeline

Vanderneer ; I have often heard Quintain speak

high in her praise, and I am certain he would not

do so unless she well deserved it."

Little thought Blanche that the very argument

that she used to strengthen her advice was the

particular one which would tend to confirm Agnes

in her opposition. She fell angry with both that

they should speak thus warmly of Adeline, and

her natural sense of justice made her feel angry

with herself that she should entertain any such

seeling. She felt strangely oppressed ; she could

have burst into a bitter passion of tears, but that

she could not, and knew she could not, assign any

feasible reason but the true one for such a display

of grief. By a strong effort she kept down her

emotion, an effort which caused her far greater

pain than a free indulgence in tears would have

done, and the gush of thoughts which these

praises and the feelings it occasioned, induced a

sudden wish to see Adeline Vanderneer — to behold

her who had forestalled her in Quintain's affections

— to look upon one whose fascinations,

whose accomplishments, whose mental and physical

qualifications had won a heart she so earnestly,

so devoutly desired to possess. When she

had come to this conclusion, and she did so quickly,

she said —

I will do as thou dost wish me — I will seek

refuge beneath the roof of the good burgomaster,

wishing still that it bad been thine, Blanche, for

the sake of thy sweet company ; but it seems

fate wills I should be disappointed where I have

set my heart and wishes, and I must bear it with

such resignation as the Holy Virgin will grant mc.

Come with me to ray chamber, Blanche ; wc will

there attire ourselves, and attend thee with all

speed," she added, addressing Quintain. She turned

to depart, and then, as though her conscience

smote her for quitting horn in a manner which

bordered on coolness, she returned, and, extending

her hand, said to horn with an earnestness

which surprised, but at the same time charmed

him — .

My strange situation makes me sadly forgetful

of what is due to gratitude. I trust sincerely

you will pardon any want of outward expression

of my sense of your disinterested" — what a stress

she laid upon that word—" services. Believe

me, Quintain, I feel most grateful, and must be unconscious

of all that is kind, generous, brave —

aye, noble, when I forget what hazard you have

incurred and still incur on my account. All

that you can wish in gratefulness is yours, and

will be while I have life."

She wrung his hand as she concluded and hurried

from the room. How happy would Quintain

have felt at her words if she had not laid a stress

upon his disinterestedness and her gratefulness !

How fondly in his heart would he have recorded

her words, bad it not been for those offensive

terms ! He sighed, and was fast sinking into a

reverie, when Caspar exclaimed, with much energy—



What a very beautiful creature she is ! what

a lovely face she has ! how like a fairy's her form

is ! By the Virgin ! I don't think I ever saw a

face so beautiful except Blanche's, but then the

styles of their beauty are so different that one can

draw no comparison, though of the two I prefer

the character of Blanche's features. There is

more decision, more energy in them; Blanche is all

fire — Agnes Flors all softness ; now I rather lean

to the fire and vivacity, but Agnes, nevertheless,

is very beautiful. Don't you think so, Quintain?"

I do," he replied briefly, turning away his

head at the same time as though he feared Cash



SLAHCHH Mists THnEATININQ COUNT VON BAAIST.

par should see how very dearly he was interested

in such a question.

I hope, meinherr, you are not going to leave

me alone in this horrid house," suddenly observed

Bertha. " You see my fellow-servant is away,

and if you all go, there will be nobody here but

me, and of course I shall be terrified to death. I

have been frightened eversincemy dearyoungmis-

tress was first carried off until I hardly know who I

am, and I know if I am left here there'll only be my

shadow remaining when you return, if that even."

Do not be alarmed, my good girl," said Quin-tin.

"My friend here," he observed, pointing to

Caspar, " will remain with you until some persons

arrive from the burgomaster Vanderneer to protect

the house."

His friend had, however, contemplated no such

proceeding ; he had fully calculated, in beating a

retreat from the house, that he should have Blanche

under his especial care, feeling assured that

Quintain would have enough to do to take care of

j\gnes Flors. Beside, he did not intend, under any

circumstances, that she should proceed without

horn, there were so many reasons to make horn

averse to it ; and, after looking for a moment

staggered when Quintain so coolly made this arrangement,

he gave an unqualified objection to

remain. Quintain enquired his reasons. He hesitated

and stammered, but, nevertheless, pretty

broadly stated his determination not to stop behind.



Blanche will need no less attention than Agnes

Flors," he observed ; " there are plenty of

knaves abroad, whose insolence to those who

seem comparatively unprotected is well known,

and requires a check such as one situated as you

are with respect to your proscription would be

unable, without imminent danger to your liberty,

to yield. If it is essential for some one to remain,

do you, until the door is forced, which will take

no little time to accomplish ; you will then have

time to escape by the garden, and before that time

I will see that there is some one sent here to protect

the house from carnage or pillage, and will,

with my life, protect the fair Agnes and your dear

I will also make whatever arrangements

you may deem necessary with the burgomaster for

Agnes' safety."

Quintain was, however, as repugnant to this proposition

as Caspar had shewn himself to his ; no

consideration would have induced horn to trust the

charge of Agnes to any other than himself, and

he was desirous that there should be some one

who would prove a check upon the soldiers, if, in

their search through the premises for horn, they

endeavored wantonly to injure any of the many

pictures or the handsome furniture which the various

rooms contained. He tried to reason with

Caspar on the subject, pointing out to horn how

much depended upon his seeing the burgomaster,

and, by the force of an eloquent appeal, obtaining

a happy asylum for Agnes, as well as his countenance

and support in any struggle which might

soon occur. But Caspar, who could see nothing

but Blanche returning home unaccompanied by

horn, not unlikely to be subjected to the unpleasant

situation of being surrounded by soldiers

capturing her brother, subjected to their rude remarks

and ruder looks, obstinately adhered to his

opinion, and was bUnd to every argument Quintain

could urge. Quintain was in some degree vexed

at his stubbornness, but as there was much probability

of the realization of his surmises, though he

did not like to acknowledge it to himself, his sense

of justice would not allow horn to display his chagrin,

and therefore he resolved to try some other

plan. One quickly presented itself. There was

no necessity that Blanche should accompany Agnes

to the residence of Vanderneer ; she could,

therefore, remain with Caspar until he had sent

some persons to supply his place. To this scheme

Caspar readily assented — indeed, asserted it was

by far the best which had been devised.

The cessation of the loud knocking at the outer

door, and the efforts made at the same time to

wrench it open, induced Quintain to reconnoitre

the soldiers from the same small opening which

had enabled Caspar to see what was transpiring

without. He beheld a guard in front of the house ;

the officer was no longer visible, but there was

one of an inferior grade left in command. A mob

of "the common people" were congregated round

the soldiers, and were livelong rude jests, attended

by boisterous laughter, at their expense.

There was, withal, in their looks a sternness, almost

fierceness, which plainly betokened they

wanted but the smallest inducement to attack

those at whom they were scoffing. Quintain could

easily perceive that to show himself would be the

signal for a desperate commotion, for the soldiers

appeared to be men who would resolutely do their

duty, and there were many spirits among the mob

who would have died rather than retreated or

yielded up the point for which they fought. He

retired from the spot with a sense of security

which he had not previously felt, and on returning

to the chamber where he had left Caspar, he found

Agnes and Blanche equipped, and the latter engaged

in an argument with her lover respecting

the arrangement which he and Quintain had made.

Agnes was anxious for Blanche to accompany her,

but when she found that our hero thought it advisable

for her to accompany horn alone, she urged

the wish no further ; and, to Casparss great felicity,

the arrangement stood as it had been agreed

upon. Agnes, closely enveloped in a mantle,

took the arm of our hero, who could have pressed

her trembling hand to his heart but dared not.

He hurried along the garden, and, by the aid of

Bertha, passed through the garden-door and into

the narrow winding path which she had described,

and which resembled a maze in its intricacies. It

was admirably adapted for the purpose to which

they were now applying it, for on all sides the wall

was so high as to prevent its being overlooked.

They pursued its many turnings for so long a distance,

that Quintain began to fear it would lead

horn a considerable way from Vanderneer's house,

which, in tracing, would almost be as fraught

with danger as having remained and run the risk

of the soldiers gaining admittance to the house

by force. Quintain, however, kept perseveringly

on, without communicating his fears to Agnes ;

on the contrary, he sustained her spirits and

strength by holding out expectations which he

knew she desired to be realized. At length, as

Bertha had stated, he found himself by the riverside,

and that through .an outlet which no one

would have dreamed led where it did. He discovered

he had gained a part of the town which was

not far distant from Vanderneer's — a point wholly

unexpected, but a great desideratum. He was

not long, after this, in conveying Agnes to her

destination, and they were received by Adeline

Vanderneer, during her father's absence, with a

kindness that tended to lessen the prejudice which,

from a cause easily surmised, .Agnes had imbibed

against her.

The story of the painter's unjust treatment was

widely circulated through the city, and had excited

universal sympathy, every one who knew horn being

satisfied of the groundlessness of the charge.

Constantly hearing this repeated by her father,

Adeline naturally became interested in the matter;

she therefore, with a feeling which did honor to

her heart, no sooner understood that Agnes

needed an asylum until she could rejoin her father,

or he with safety return to his home, than she

bade her consider the house her own ; and to render

her invitation more acceptable, she hastened

to her mother, a kind-hearted dame, and brought

her to the chamber to reiterate the offer, which

the old lady did with a material affectionately

of manner that went direct to the heart of Agnes

and made her feel that her welcome was sincere —

that she should also, if not exactly happy, be at

least removed from all personal danger, and rendered

as free from care and apprehension as was

possible. There was a consolation in this which

would have gone far to have restored her mid to

something like peacefulness, had she not observed

once during the time the old lady was addressing

her, that the eyes of Quintain and Adeline met.

It might have been accident, it might Tiave been

design — at all events, the effect was singular :

Adeline became instantly, face and neck, deeply

crimsoned, while Quintain looked miserably embarrassed.

A death-like pang shot through the

heart of Agnes as she witnessed this emotion in

both, and she felt fata nd cold ; her face, too,

changed its pale hue to whiteness, which the dame

observing, construed into weakness, the result of

the alarm and sorrow which she had endured upon

her father's account ; she therefore, recommended

her to retire to a chamber appropriated to her use,

and court the repose which would restore her to

health and cheerfulness. Agnes was but too satisfied,

by what she had just seen, that her suspicions

respecting the love existing between Adeline

and our hero were verified, not to feel that reckless

carelessness as to what became of her hereafter

which is the natural emotion that follows a

severe disappointment in the only object which

can make life worth living for ; a deep and bitter

sigh burst from her, and she had to make a terrible

struggle to restrain the tears which with

passionate vehemence were ready to gush forth.

She succeeded so far as to give her passive acquiescence

to any proposition the dame Wanderer

might make, and then yearned to be alone,

that she might indulge the grief which oppressed

her almost to suffocation. Quintain took her hand

as he was about to depart ; it was cold as ice, and

remained in his as inanimate as marble while he

spoke some parting words to her — words of little

import in themselves, but which received an interest

from the manner in which they were delivered

; his voice trembled, and his manner was so

embarrassed as to be observed by all. Both Agnes

and Adeline misconstrued the real cause,

and both instantly wore thoughtful and sorrowful

countenances. Quintain had scarcely concluded

when the burgomaster entered ; he looked ruffled,

his face was flushed, and the working of his features

plainly exhibited proofs of his equanimity

having been much disturbed. The form of Quin-tin

caught his flashing eyes as lie entered the

room, and, increasing the quick step he was already

using, he caught hold of his hand and exclaimed

—

Right glad am I to see thee, Quintain ; thought

he whom I would search the city through to-day

hut I would have sound. Not," he added, a smile

breaking through his clouded features, " for the

sake of the paltry reward offered for thy capture,

but to teach those, who have offered and promulgated

that reward, a lesson which they shall not

lightly nor easily forget."

"What is the matter, husband?" enquired

dame Vanderneer, perceiving his excited state —

what has ruffled thee thus ?"

Nothing, wife, that requires the notice or the

interference of women. — Ah ! by my haldane !

Agnes Flors ! My dear child, I prithee pardon

me for not seeing thee before. Welcome to my

house — welcome, child; and though it be thy first

visit, through thy father's love of seclusion, let

it not be the last"

I have taken the liberty, burgomaster, of

bringing thy fair guest hither, that thou mayest

afford her an asylum until it is possible for her to

rejoin her father, who is safely sheltered in the

convent of St. Francis, beyond Malines," said

Quintain. " 1 knew your kind hospitality would

not question my freedom in taking advantage of

it, and well 1 know, also, that one beneath thy

roof is safe while thou hast means and life to protect

them."

You do me no more than justice, honest

Quintain," returned Vanderneer instantly. "By

my faith I good youth, hadst thou craved an asylum

for other than roe, I would have visited thee

with as heavy a punishment as debarring thee the

sight of a pair of bright eyes, which thought not

lethe to gaze upon : I know, I know, natheless,

thy modesty would try to persuade others there

was wondrous fascination in a carved ceiling or an

oaken floor ; I know thee. Ha 1 ha I Thy inclining

is not lost upon me, nor shall it be."

He looked at his daughter with a chuckle ashe

spoke, while her crimsoned brow and half

frightened look told that she understood the allusion.

Quintain, who in noticing the fluctuations

of Adeline's countenance when ho addressed her,

had cursed the glibness of his tongue in leading

her, only in the mere passage of gallantry, to believe

her beauty had had more influence upon horn

than properly belonged to friendship, listened to

Vanderneer with a dismay which he could not

conceal, and which Vanderneer perceived only

thoroughly to misunderstand. He laughed and

winked his eye knowingly at Quintain, which served

only to increase his confusion, and to give Wanderer

occasion for further amusement ; but having

carried his joke — as he believed it to be, though

it happened to be anything but a joke — as far as

it was necessary, he told Agnes to rest assured of

his protection, for if he could not afford her a safe

asylum, no one else in Antwerp could. He bade

her take comfort, for that the great body of the

people of Antwerp would espouse her father's

cause, and she might at night rest her head upon

her pillow with the firm conviction, that no harm

would attend her father from the present persecution.



I was finely ruffled though, I can assure thee,

when I entered just now," he said, " and on your

account too, friend Quintain. I passed close to

the Leech Market, and heard that the predecessors

had posted notices respecting you all

through the city ; that an officer, attended by a

body of the imperial guard, had attempted to tear

one down, which had been resisted by the people,

and he with his troopers, had been compelled to

fly. Shortly afterwards, making my way to the

residence of my friend Flors, in order that I might

hear something respecting horn and see that my

fair guest had not suffered from any impertinent

interference on the part of those who have assumed

to themselves a power which will not long be tolerated

in Antwerp, on reaching the door, I

found it surrounded by a body of troops headed

by the very rascal who made Michael Flors prisoner

— a pestilence upon the knave I He was

attempting to gain admittance, which the firmly

closed door denied horn, and was about to order the

door to be forced, when I interfered. To see how

the rogue bearded me when I insisted upon his

showing me his warrant for searching the house.

With some difficulty I drew from horn that the

principal actor in the mob that attacked horn in

the market-place was the same youth who had endeavored

to step between horn and his duty when

he arrested Michael Flors. This I knew to be

you, and as he averred that you were then in the

house, he asserted his right to enter and search

for you. I was obliged to prove my authority asa

burgomaster before I could get the rascal to

listen to me, and then I proved to horn that if he

persisted in attempting to search the house without

a warrant, he should not only find himself

roughly handled by the mob, but he should also

find that he would be punished by higher authorities.

He is a poor rascal ; he has not sufficient

principle to be manly or honorable, and lacks courage

to be a thorough villain. He placed a body

of men in front of the house, and quitted with

the remainder, as a protective body, to obtain the

necessary authority to force an entrance, if not

given at his summons."

That accounts for the sudden cessation of the

violent knocking at the door," said Quintain.

What, you were inside at the time then ?" said

the burgomaster.

I was," replied Quintain. " Indeed, it was the

liability of our gentle friend Agnes to be insulted

by that officer, which induced me to persuade her

to seck an asylum with you until safer times."

"Aye, 'twas a happy thought," said Wanderer.

" I would not be that officer for a round

sum, if he comes hither and displays any of his

impertinence. By the Holy Virgin ! I would

fling horn from the window into the street, nor

pause one second to consider the consequences.

I fancy he had some such expectation, the more

especially when the surrounding mob at Flors'

house, not small in number, cheered me for my

interference ; he grew more cool and respectful

in his manner, and retired somewhat precipitately

for his warrant. When he departed I departed

also, to muster a few friends to greet horn upon his

admission into Flors' house, and as I came away

many addressed me with strong hints indicative of

their desire to scatter the soldiers like a flock of

sheep ; but I bade them be wise, and wait until a

voice rang through the city calling on them to

stand up for their rights — then to come forward and

act as men, aye, and bold ones too. The fellows

flung up their caps, and vowed to be ready when

called upon."

Did they separate when you left them ?" asked

Quintain.

Troth ! I scarcely noticed, being anxious not

to be behindhand in meeting the soldiers with a

few of my people upon whom I can place dependence,"

returned Vanderneer. " But since the

principal cause of my anxiety is beneath my roof,

why I care little about the movements of the imperial

troops."

There is much valuable property in the

house," hastily exclaimed Quintain, " if it be only

in pictures, and I would rather return and face

every hazard, than they should be exposed to the

tender mercies of the soldiery ; beside, ray sister

and a friend are in the house, and it is ray duty

not to leave them exposed to any outrage the fellow

commanding the troop may choose to inflict

upon them."

Say no more," said Vanderneer, " wc will

away thither at once ; and if the rascals dare

meddle with any thing, or any body, but those especially

named in the warrant, they may prepare

for trimmed jackets after the manner of the citizens."



But," said Adeline, anxiously, yet timidly,

"if there is a search being made by the soldiers

you speak of for Quintain Matsys, it will be very-unwise

— indeed, very dangerous for horn to accompany

you, will it not?"

Never fear — never fear," cried Vanderneer,

with a sly look and a laugh, " I will take care of

horn for your sake. — Ah, Addyyyy, Addyyyy — you area

sly rogue ; you would have horn stay here I know.

Aha, I see — I see."

I do not speak for that, father," she replied

hastily, reddening at the same time, " but I should

be very sorry to hear that he was in any trouble."

I have no doubt you would," said the burgomaster,

laughing and chucking her under the chin,

but you may spare yourself all anxiety — I will

not part with horn very easily ; dost thou think I

shall, Quintain ?"

I will endeavor so to act as to give you little

cause," he replied, and betrayed such anxiety to

be away, that the burgomaster delayed no more

time in badinage, but accompanied horn at once.

After they had taken their leave, and the burgomaster

had summoned a dozen stout fellows, who

were in his employ, to accompany horn, they departed,

Quintain leading the way, in the direction

in which he had brought Agnes.

Why do you choose this path ?" asked Vanderneer

; "it is much the longest way."

In that you are mistaken," observed Quintain ;

I am about to convey you to the painter's abode

by a nearer and more private way than any you

know."

Indeed !" replied the burgomaster. ** Well,

which way you list — I shall learn something, at

least. I wish you would learn something from

me — divest yourself of a little of that bashfulness

in the presence of a handsome young girl. I can

tell you they don't like it. I have had some experience

in my time, and I know I speak facts."

Quintain felt confused, for the burgomaster's

eye was upon hir n; he had a shrewd guess to what

he alluded, and as it was an expectation which, as

far as he was concerned, was not likely to be realised,

it was a subject which he would gladly have

avoided. But the burgomaster did not choose

to suffer horn to do so, pertinaciously keeping to

the point, and giving horn to understand pretty

plainly, that if ho were to ask for the hand of

Adeline Vanderneer, it would not be denied him.

Quintain hardly knew how to parry so direct a

thrust, but, in the best manner he was able, he

accomplished it. He spoke of his mother and

sister as requiring so much of his care and attention

as to render all thoughts of other persons unavailable,

and inferred it as his principal reason

for not fixing his heart upon any one person ;

which point, though closely questioned upon by

Vanderneer, he contrived to elude. He could not

help sighing at the caprice of Fortune which this

disclosure of Vanderneer's wish brought before

him. Previous to having seen Agnes he had

thought Adeline Vanderneer the prettiest creature

he had ever beheld. He had not fallen in love

with her, nor thought of it ; he had always remembered

her beauty, and mentioned it where comparisons

had been made, and he had been charmed

by her frank, agreeable, amiable manner. Though

not loving, he esteemed her ; and had the present

question been brought forward before he had met

Agnes, he should have considered himself one of

the most fortunate of beings in obtaining a wise

whose beauty was equalled by her kind heart and

generous spirit, aud whose fortune and family made

the alliance in every way desirable. .As the matter

at present stood, he loved without a hope of return,

and, even if his affection was reciprocated, there

was an opposition to be expected from Flors, who,

sensible as he was of Quintain's services, and anxious

as he would be to liberally requite them,

would, nevertheless, not depart from the resolution

which he had formed respecting the bestowal

of her hand. To live alone and unloved, was a

cheerless prospect for the future ; and turn his

eyes prospectively as he might, there appeared

nothing but dreary wretchedness in store for him.

He was not naturally despondent, but in his view

of the future he had little to cheer horn, and could

not help hoping that in the ernest about to take

place, in which be had no doubt but that he should

take an active part,

Some friendly ball would lay horn low."

Vanderneer perceived his depression, and, attributing

it to a widely different cause, bade horn be

of good cheer, for there were plenty of hands and

hearts to bring horn through a far worse situation

than that he was now placed in. Quintain smiled,

and said he had no fear upon that point ; and

rousing himself, affected a gaiety as foreign to his

feelings as his former behaviour had been to mirth.

Much did Vanderneer marvel to find himself on

the banks of the river as a route to Flors' dwelling

; more did he so to find himself winding along

passages which, well as he knew Antwerp, he never

imagined had existence in it ; but was not a

little pleased to find himself so easily and comfortably

within Flor's house, without there having

been occasion to remove a bolt from the door which

the soldiers surrounded.

"Ha ! ha 1" he laughed ; " why this trooper

will think I have dealings with the father of evil.

He saw me hasten down the street, and his people

will tell horn no one has entered since his departure

; and lo ! he will find me within, comfortably

domiciled. Well, when he comes I would advise

horn to behave himself well, for though not hasty,

yet I am somewhat impatient at the insolence of

a petty wielder of authority, and might be induced

to tumble horn, neck and heels, into the street, followers

and all — "

His speech was interrupted by a furious hammering

at the outer door. It continued without

intermission for a minute or so, and then ceased.

It was followed by a voice crying loudly —

Open ! open, in the name of the Emperor —

open in the name of the imperial commissioner—

open in the name of the law — open, crc wc, in the

exercise of our authority, beat down the door, and

force for ourselves an entrance."

Let them try that beating down the door ; I

question their finding it an easy task," said Caspar

Hauser, who stood with the arm of Blanche

locked in his own and prepared, whatever happened,

to defend her from all insolence or danger.

Vanderneer enquired respecting the ability of the

door to withstand common efforts, and, on learning

its stoutness, paid a visit to satisfy himself. He

soon returned, and with a face, as well as voice,

of glee, he said —

Wc will let this knave shout until he is hoarse

before he gains admittance. That door will give

them plenty of trouble to move it ; but I must do

the rascal who leads the troops the credit to say

he loves his own safety no little. He has donned

breast-plate and morion, and there is at least two

hundred soldiers to back hir n; they are attended

by fellow citizens extending as far as my eye could,

through the small hole I peered from, reach. I

think, Quintain, it will be the wiser plan for you

to retire quietly, with your sister and friend, by

the way you brought me, which is deserted ; and

if you think your own house will not remain un visited,

mine is heartily at your service. At present

it will be better to depart from hence, for though

it had been my wish, at all hazards, for you to

have encountered the soldiers, whom 1 would not

have suffered to have taken you, to shew that commissioners

are not to enter Antwerp and set at

defiance the magistrates and their laws, yet I see

it cannot be accomplished without much bloodshed,

and that I would, at present, avoid."

Oh yes," cried Blanche, earnestly, " come

away at once, dear Quintain — do not heedlessly or

rashly expose your life ; remember that mother

would break her heart if aught of evil happened

to you, and I should seel as deeply. Be advised

Quintain ; there is no true valor in rashness, and

you, who have so well proved your courage, can

spare something to prudence and wisdom."

Spoken like an oracle," said Vanderneer ;

hear her, Quintain, and obey her. Away with

you ; I will see to the pictures, aud goods, and

chattels, and at sunset meet me at my house, or

beyond the city gates, if it will be more prudent."

It must be at the latter place," said Quintain,

suddenly remembering his engagement with Von

Haalst. " A mile to the left be it ; if lam alive

I will be with you. At present I take your advice,

seeing little utility in merely braving the troopers,

knowing, as I do, that I have too much to accomplish,

rashly to hazard my liberty. Farewell for

the present, good friend. I need not tell thee,

that though Michael Flors is not here, his home

should be as much respected as if he were,"

I need not the injunction," said Vanderneer,

suddenly compressing his fist. " I should like to

see one of the knaves lay an unsaintly hand upon

aught that Flors held sacred ; if he measures not

his length upon tho floor I have no strength, nor

am I a burgomaster. Away with thee ; those

fellows are commencing the beating in of the door

in earnest," he added, as a fresh clamour broke

upon their ears. "At sunset I will meet thee

at the place appointed. Farewell."

A hasty farewell was exchanged by all, and

once more the narrow alley was threaded by our

hero, attended by his sister and friend, and in

safety they pursued it until they reached the

river-side. They then took the nearest and most

unfrequented route to their home. They had

just reached the street in which they lived, when

a man suddenly issued from a jutting corner. He

started as they approached, and the name of " Von

Haalst" burst from Quintain's lips. The Count,

for it was horn, instantly clapped his hands thrice

with eager haste : a dozen men started from a

place of concealment, and, before Quintain could

draw his weapon, his arms were seized and pinioned,

his mouth gagged, and he borne away with

tho rapidity of thought. Half the men had accomplished

this seat; the remainder attacked Caspar,

and seized Blanche. Caspar, however, flung

the first fellow who seized horn to the earth with

almost superhuman strength. Like lightning he

drew his sword, aud, with terrific force, cut down

the second. The man who held Blanche he

brained; the fellow relaxed his hold, and fell

dead. Caspar then seized the maiden by the waist,

placed her as quick as thought behind horn, and

stood, like a tiger at bay, to return the attack of

those striving to fall upon him. He had accomplished

his present seat with extraordinary rapidity,

the thought alone of the abduction of milanese

sending horn into a state of frantic desperation.

The screams of Blanche, who saw her brother

borne away without having an opportunity to save or

defend tinsel f; and the shouts of Caspar, who called

upon the people near for aid, and gave a shrill

cry, known to all Predecessors, for assistance,

quickly brought several people running towards

them. One more desperate effort was made to

obtain the maiden from her lover, but be defended

her like a lion, and though every assailant levelled

their swords at horn at once, wounding horn severely

in several places, he stood firm, and resisted

every effort to move him. Numbers of persons

now approached, and the assailants retired precipitately,

following the party who bad disappeared

at the commencement of the fray, and no trace of

horn was visible. Caspar almost fainting, from

loss of blood, still stood prepared for friend or foe ;

but the first stranger who approached he recognised

as one of the Predecessors.

Help, in the name of God I" he cried, giving

the pass-word of the band. " Heed me not, there

are plenty coming to attend to me ; Quintain 

is borne away prisoner — that way they bore

him. Spread the news. Hunt the villains down.

Pause not, till you rescue him. Speed — speed.

—Oh God ! Blanche— l—"

His head drooped as he uttered the last words,

he clutched at the air and fell senseless upon the

ground. Blanche filled the air with her shrieks ;

several persons reached the spot almost as he fell

and raised horn in their arms, while the first man

shouted at the top of his voice —

Ho ! there, for aid ! Quintain Matsys is taken.

Up, and follow me ! Up, and follow me ! Ho I

there, in the name of God ! Help, help."

He ran swiftly forward. He had not got far

before an artisan sprang from his house and took

up the cry ; he soon brought forth another, and

then joined in the pursuit. Soon there was above

an hundred men in hat chase, crying out for revenge.

Those persons who had raised up Caspar

now bore horn gently towards Quintain's dwelling,

while Blanche hung over horn, weeping passionately.

They speedily reached the house and he

was carried to a couch, upon which he was placed

while one of the persons who had carried horn

hastened for a skilful leech to attend to his

wounds. Blanche, the first paroxysm of grief and

horror being over, now showed herself that firm

spirit which attends on a strong mid, and made

her rise superior to the distressing circumstances

in which she was placed. The danger of Caspar

and the capture of Quintain were existing evils —

they were not to bo avoided ; but their influences

were to be counteracted, aud to that task, with an

energy of mid most admirable, she devoted herself.

She did her utmost to console her mother,

who sat wringing her hands aud weeping bitterly

for the loss of her child, and attended on Caspar

with the most tender assiduity ; she despatched

a messenger to the burgomaster Vanderneer with

the sad tidings, and, in fact, by a sacrifice of personal

feelings, which only a mid of considerable

powers was equal to, she acted for all with whom

she was connected, at the same time suffering an

anguish fully as poignant as their's could be.

During the time these scenes were being acted,

the burgomaster received the soldiers into the

house of Flors, first haranguing them from the

window, acknowledging their right to search the

premises if they bore a special warrant to that effect,

but warning them not to wantonly inflict any

injury upon the valuables the house contained.

He wound up by saying, he should call upon

every good and true citizen to aid horn in preventing

any such act, if they attempted it. He was

answered by a deafening cheer from the multitude,

who, with an unbroken silence, listened to

his words. The soldiery, though not small in

numbers, were overawed by the sights thethrong,

who, in pretty strong terms, stated their intention

of doing whatever the burgomaster desired them ;

and when a strong body entered with the officer

into the house, it was remarkable to see how scrupulously

they avoided injuring anything during

their search, which was active and close. They

failed, however, after prying into every nook and

cranny, from the top of the house to the bottom, to

find horn they searched for, and departed without

securing the expected prisoner. They were accompanied

by the scoffs and jeers of the multitude,

and their leader cut rather a contemptible figure.

As he was about to quit the house the burgomaster

addressed hir n:

This search has been the offspring of a petty

spite on your part. Look you, fellow, you will

not always wear the Emperor's badge upon your

shoulders : when I catch you without it, you shall

not fail to have mine."

Do you threaten me ?" said he, with frowning

brows.

Most certainly," answered Vanderneer ; " I

should do now what I threaten but that no man

shall say I raised my hand against the Emperor's

symbol till the fitting time, else would you wear

different stripes to those now on your garment."

Another such a speech," roared the officer

angrily, " and I will drag you before the high

commissioner, let your station in the city be what

it may. Be cautioned, and keep a quiet tongue."

If you will trouble yourself to look from this

window upon the multitude without, you will see

a party who would say nay to any attempt to can

out so vain a boast," observed Vanderneer, coolly.

Blustering as you appear, I do not think you

have the courage to brave their opposition."

*' The officer muttered an angry reply, and bade

Vanderneer beware.

I always do of a reptile," he replied laconically.



not to hear horn, the fellow drew his

men from the house and departed. When the

place was clear, Vanderneer returned towards his

home ; and soon he heard the wild cry, caught up

and echoed from mouth to mouth, that Quintain

Matsys was taken and carried no one knew whither

; he heard, also, that the friend accompanying

horn had been killed, and Blanche had lost her

senses at the dreadful scene she had witnessed.

This was startling news, and he hastened to have

it confirmed by at once visiting Quintain's dwelling.

Here he ascertained the truth, and bade Blanche

cheer up, telling her that if Quintain was in or near

Antwerp, four and twenty hours should not elapse

crc he was liberated. Upon hearing that a messenger

had been despatched to his residence, he

hastened home, for fear a too abrupt communication

might have an injurious effect upon his

daughter, whom he really believed to be in love

with Quintain. Upon gaining the house he ascertained

the courier had been and gone ; he hurried

up the stairs and encountered Agnes Flors. He

questioned her respecting the affair in such terms

as not to alarm her, but to learn by indirect means

whether she had heard the tidings. He was

somewhat relieved to find that she had not ; he

took her hand and led her to the chamber in which

he understood his daughter was sitting, determining,

if possible, to engage them in some matter

which should keep them employed and prevent

them hearing too readily, intelligence which could

be but little less than distracting to both. As he

entered, he was struck by hearing the sound of a

man's voice engaged in low but earnest converse ;

he paused, and his face displayed signs of the

greatest, and certainly not pleased, astonishment.

It was not that he was surprised at hearing the

vt.ee of the man, but it was the subject matter of

their discourse which startled him. He stood

still to hear more, and Agnes, who found in an

instant that she was a particularly interested

party, was not sorry for the pause, though in a

cooler moment she could not have reconciled it

with her sense of propriety. Before them, seated

by the window, was Adeline Vanderneer: a

youth was by her side — one of bis hands rested

upon the back of her chair, the other held one

of hers, which she half withdrew, yet suffered to

remain. He looked in her face with an expression

of deep earnestness, and spoke in a tone of

strong enthusiasm ; her head drooped in maiden

bashfulness, but there was no appearance upon

her features by which it might be gathered that

what she heard was displeasing to her. They

were both so deeply wrapt in their colloquy that

they heard not the step of those who entered, and

Vanderneer did not seem particularly anxious that

should, until he had gathered sufficient to

descant upon. He raised his hand to admonish

Ag-nes to silence, and awaited the result of the

youth's appeal which was not wanting in eloquence

nor warmth of feeling.

"Will you not answer me, Adeline?" he said.

I ask you not for a long speech and fine language

— one simple word, uttered with sincerity

of heart, will yield me more joy, more delight,

than a thousand sentences of high-flown sentiment

that do not contain the one word I ask for.

You must have known, Adeline, that I have loved

you even from our days of childhood : were wc

not sweethearts then ? Do not believe, because

during some sew years, which have brought me toman's

estate, and which have been sedulously employed

in rendering me fit to be termed a man in

all its social relations, I have seen you less and

never repeated the words of affection which in

my boyhood I poured into — not an unwilling ear,

Adeline — that I have not felt towards you as I did

then. In those days you did not think me unworthy

of your esteem — I might almost say, love;

and since that time, I have been guilty of no act

which to remember should flush my forehead with

shame, and why should you change now ? It is

not that I have loved you less that I have not addressed

you in these terms until now ; it is, dear

Adeline, that I might by industry place myself ina

position to claim you — that I might say I have

a comfortable home and a true heart to offer thee,

when I sought to obtain the happiness thy dear

hand could confer upon me. — You are still silent,

Adeline ; have you not one word to say to me ?

Speak to me — let me not believe that all early

remembrances are faded from your mind — that he

who appeals to thee has no place in thy memory

or in thy soul. I have never for one moment

forgotten thee ; I have been gladdened by thy

vision presence in my daily labors and in my

nightly vigils ; I have seen thee in my dreams —

aye, and in them seen thee smile upon mc. Oh !

couldst thou but know with how light a spirit my

daily task was accomplished under that endearing

influence, thou would'st not doubt how deeply,

dearly, truly I have loved thee ; and if thou really

lowest me when, as fond girl and boy, wc plighted

troth, thou wouldst not now hear me with a dull

ear or an averted eye — yet by thy drooping head

and thy silence I fear there is that in store for me

I dread to learn, and shall bear God knows how.

Keep me not in suspense, dear Adeline, but answer

me ; sickening thoughts are beginning to intrude

— those fears and dreads which make

suspense so dreadful are stealing over me to oppress

me with their withering horror. — Speak to

mc."

What shall I say to thee, Paul?" she murmured.



Thou knowest what I would have thee say,"

he rejoined with earnestness ; " yet, strongly as

I desire it, let not thy gentleness of heart lead

thee to a decision to which thy soul does not incline,

and speak to me with only thy true sentiments

; and be thy decree for or against me, 1

will abide it."

Indeed, Paul, I would not wrong thy truth,

nor wound thy generosity, for worlds ;" she exclaimed,

" but I am placed in an unfortunate position

with one who has, at least, no common claim

upon my sympathy — one who risked his life in my

behalf."

You mean Quintain Matsys," he rejoined

quickly. " I know that he saved thee ;' that I

was at Malines, when I would have given the

wealth of kingdoms, had it been mine, to have

been here in Antwerp. That Quintain Matsys was

fortunate he may thank the Providence which

placed horn on the spot : he acted gallantly, no

one can deny — that he should fall in love with

you, dearest Adeline, was not unnatural; but

though he has, and deservedly, strong claims upon

your gratitude, it follows not that therefore he

should also upon your love, unless, like he to you,

you have rendered your heart to him."

I conveyed no such insinuation," observed

Adeline.

Perhaps not," he replied ; " but I fear it, and

that fear makes me think it more than probable —

yet should it not be so — should Quintain Matsys

loTe you and know that your heart was not for horn,

he possesses too noble a spirit to desire that which

cannot be given with a free soul. I know but

little of horn, yet it is but just, though he is my

rival, I should speak honestly regarding horn ; one

whom I esteem hath known horn long, and speaks

of horn in terms which belong only to the truly

worthy. Oh ! Adeline if thou didst but love me,

and let horn know thy heart was another's, he

would resign thee without a murmur — not but

that he would feel deeply, though he would not

let thee see it. I would be very very loth to inflict

a pang upon so generous a spirit as his, but

either he or I must have the pain ; and if I have

thy hand, he could better bear the disappointment,

knowing that he had not thy love, than I who,

knowing I possess thy affection, must still yield

thee, and live alone a life of cheerless despair,

from which one word from thee would save mc."

Yet, Paul, I sear me that word may not bespoken,"

returned Adeline in a voice which she

endeavored to make firm ; "it was but recently

that a thoughtless remark provoked an acknowledgment

from Quintain Matsys which, no matter

what my expectations were, surprised mc. He

perceived my change of countenance, though I

would have fain avoided it, and with the generosity

peculiar to horn, fearing he had touched upon a

chord which had given me pain, he made a rejoinder

which I feel assured was opposed to his

real feelings. Now I appeal to your generosity,

Paul ; should I selfishly suffer personal considerations

to influence me against one who hazarded

his life for me, and sacrificed his feelings the instant

he perceived they might be inimical to my

future expectations ?"

I seek not to make any vain-glorious boast,"

said he, with some enthusiasm, " but I would hazard

my life a thousand throes for thee, and that proudly

and gladly, nor is there a sacrifice I would not

make for thee."

I doubt it not," she replied, " yet is that no

answer to me — "

I will give thee one, Adeline," said her father,

advancing, to the utter confusion of the

young couple, who both, with crimsoned faces,

regarded horn and Agnes, wondering at once how

much of the conversation had been overheard.

There can be no doubt," he continued, " which

is the most deserving of esteem in making an election

between horn who has done thee a service

and he who promises or only wishes he had the

opportunity of doing it; the merits of a man cannot

be judged until they have been displayed — a

friend is not actually known for such until he has

been proved. Quintain Matsys hath proved himself

a true heart, as even this maiden can testify,"

he said, pointing to Agnes. " His conduct to her

and to her father, though comparatively strangers,

have sufficiently proved his nobleness of heart,

had I not an amount to add to the sum ; and

though, young sir, I have nought to say against

thee — rather to the contrary, for thou hast earned

a fair reputation among our merchants, yet you

possess no claim upon me or my child equal

or approaching to those which Quintain has so gallantly

earned. Yet thou shalt not say I have

acted unfairly to thee ; thou shalt have thine answer

from Adeline's lips, unblessed by me —

though not now. This is not a time, when so

many of our dearest friends are in danger and

trouble.

Are there more than my father victims to

injustice and oppression in this city ?" asked Agnes,

eagerly.

Aye is there, indeed," he replied, with a

mournful air. " I have learned sad tidings on my

return, very sad ; but if there is a staunch heart

in Antwerp, he shall not long be in their accursed

clutches."

Who ?" asked both Agnes and Adeline in a

breath.

A friend who should be dear to both," he exclaimed.



Not Quintain Matsys," cried Agnes, eagerly.

Even he," returned Vanderneer, sadly ; "he

quitted me to return with his sister, and on his

homeward path was seized by a number of men,

and borne away without having a chance of resistance.

Would I had been there. By the

great power of Heaven ! they should not have

gained their object without a desperate struggle."

Agnes sunk into a chair and, clasping her

hands together, exclaimed, in a tone of the greatest

anguish —

I — l am the cause of this." She burst into a

bitter flood of tears as she said this, and Adeline,

who sought to console her, joined in them with

her.

You spoke but now of your determination to

rescue horn from those who have made horn prisoner,"

said Paul, with excitement depicted on his

features ; " let me join in the cause, and if I use

not heart and hand with the true spirit, spurn me

from you for ever."

Give me thy hand," said Vanderneer, warmly,

you have chosen the path to ray heart ; I accept

thy services, and will not fail to use them. I

know not yet whither our friend has been carried,

but the Predecessors, who have thoroughly espoused

his cause, and justify horn in bis late act, are out

in hot chase ; they will not let hole or corner in

Antwerp escape without searching it, and those

who hold horn had need of strength, if he is discovered,

to retain horn in their custody. Go thou

and prepare thyself, and return here as quickly as

thou canst ; I will see to the arming of some

of my stoutest fellows, and then join in the pursuit."



The young man, whose name was Paul Breit-

stem, took a hasty farewell, and departed. Vanderneer,

who viewed the emotion displayed by

Agnes as the effects of her feelings at being the

cause of the incarceration of one who had proved

himself so true a friend, thought of no other spring

from whence this grief might have flowed, although,

looking at the saddened countenance of

his daughter, he could notbebeve that she felt no

more than was due to sincere friendship. He did

his best to console both after the manner which he

believed the state of their affections demanded,

and was surprised to find that, so far from succeeding,

he made them more miserable than before.

This made horn rather restive, and he bade them

seek their chambers and console each other, bogging

them, at the same time, to remember that

though they wept a river, deep and as broad as the

Scheldt, it would not benefit in the least their imprisoned

friend Quintain Matsys.

Without, a word in reply, they retired ; and he,

bent on desperate deeds, if bis intended son-in-law

were not speedily released, proceeded to muster

his men, a large number of whom he employed

; and selecting the sturdiest and boldest

among them, placed in their hands weapons of

various descriptions, and then awaited the arrival

of Paul Breitstein, who joined them shortly after

they were ready, and set forward with them with

the determination of doing something which

would bear comparison when placed by the side

of the deeds of Quintain Matsys.

CHAP XIX.

The band of men who, under the direction of

the Count Von Haalst, had seized upon our hero

and carried horn away prisoner, had at least so far

well arranged their plan, that he was gagged and

enveloped in a cloak instantaneously — a belt was

as quickly passed round his feet and arms, and thus

he was completely pinioned. The direction in

which he was borne it was impossible for horn to

ascertain, nor could he, with the folds of the mantle

tight round his head, hear the cry of those

who were in pursuit : he felt only that he was

hurried along with a rapidity which was almost

surprising. There was no cessation of the speed

for some time, but when a stop was made he was

placed upon his sect, and, the cloak removed, he

sound himself in utter darkness ; his feet were then

set at liberty, and a fellow on either side of horn

held horn by the shoulder, and urged horn forward.

a'Vb any resistance would have been useless, he

suffered himself to be impelled quietly. They

stopped at length, and a door was opened : he

heard it unlocked, although he was unable to see

it. He was thrust into a small room, so dimly

baited, that it was not until he had been sometime

a tenant that ho could discern any object

within its walls — the gag was removed from his

mouth, and then he was left alone. The door was

locked on the outside, and the retreating footsteps

of the men echoed along the passage, the sound

fading as they receded — a dreary image of departing

hope. A series of painful reflections now

took possession of him. lie had little doubt, that

as Von Haalst had been instrumental in his capture,

that he would compass his death. He perceived,

when he had mentioned the foul crime with

which Steinhart had charged horn, by the frightful

change, the livid hue that had overspread his

features, that the accusation had not been unfounded

; he saw, also, when he breathed his

own name, how eagerly, yet vindictively, the

Count caught at it. To this there was but to

add, the confession that Steinhart hod made respecting

the villany the Count had purposed committing

towards himself and sister, and then to

rest assured his life was of but short duration.

He was pleased to think he had at least secured

for Agnes a safe retreat; he would have been

comparatively resigned to his fate, if he could have

been certain that his sister was equally safe. He

had caught, when seized, a faint glimpse of Caspar

Houses sword flashing in the air, and he knew

that he possessed both skill and courage ; he felt,

therefore, that he would defend her with his life.

He was conscious of his enthusiastic love for her —

he would have quarrelled with the wind if it had

visited her too roughly — and in the face of an evil

of this character he knew be would prove a very

lion. Such consolation as was to be drawn from

this reflection he availed himself of, but there was

the doubt; — and that very doubt gnawed his

bosom with almost as much violence and pain asa

knowledge of the worst would have done for

himself. He did not care so much as he should

have done had he thought. Agnes loved him — the

conviction that she did not, made horn careless,

to a certain degree, what became of hir n; yet,

withal, there was a latent hope, a hidden seeling,

which at times would peep out, and made horn look

with fond eyes to a time when she might be

brought to love horn ; and then, as he dwelled on

this thought with delight, the remembrance of her

father's resolution respecting her, would, like a

demon, step in and chase away the hope, leaving

horn to despair, until hope, though pressed hardly

down, would rise again, and whisper to his heart

that the affection the old man had evinced towards

horn might induce horn to forego the resolve.

A chain of these thoughts intruded upon horn now,

and made horn loth to think his chance of life was

so small as not to afford any indulgence of a hope

of escape. With a hope of Agnes, life became

sweet : it was hard to die so young, and in such a

fashion — harder to think it should be through a

villain who had sought to inflict so dire an injury

on one he loved ; it almost made horn mad,

and he paced the miserable cell with fretful steps,

writhing with torture at visions, his brain, once

set on that track, conjured up. Hours passedaway;

the little light straggling through the window was

withdrawn, and he knew it was night. It was

long crc he could bring himself to any feeling

approaching resignation ; but ultimately, worn

out with fatigue, and a mid overstrained, he

rested himself upon the stone floor, and tired

nature led horn " by easy steps and slow" to slumber.



From this he was aroused by a hand laid rudely

upon his shoulder ; he was lifted quickly from

the ground, and the light of a lamp glistening in

his eyes almost blinded him.

Am I to die now?" he asked hastily, as he saw

the heads of a number of men just visible in the

gloom ; "if so, let me not die a dog's death — give

me a sword, and as many as there are of ye fall

upon me ; kill me as quickly as ye may have the

power, but let me not die thus."

One of the men laughed.

You have a bold spirit," he said, "it is a pity

you can't, have your wish ; but wc have no orders

to slay you yet — wc have farther to take you."

Whither am I to be taken ?" asked Quintain.

Why that's not what wc are going to tell

you," returned the man, with a laugh. " You

must be gagged, and have your feet bound as before.

Submit quietly," he added, as Quintiu prepared

16 make some resistance — " you will only

injure yourself — wc are too strong for you ; besides,

what can you do with your hands tied ?"

This was too obvious to deny, and, with a sigh,

Quintain suffered himself to be bound, and the

cloak thrown over horn ; he was then carried away.

He felt that he was borne by the men for a long

distance ; he was then mounted upon a steed, and,

after a long stage, was listed on to a fresh one, and,

after a weary ride of some hours, the steed

stopped : he was lifted off, the cloak removed, and

he could just see, by the dawning day, that he

was before a hovel in the midst of a wood. Into

this he was hurried — tho gag was removed, and

refreshments were placed before hir n: he partook

of there, and was then ushered into a small room

lighted from a hole in the roof: it contained a

miserable looking bed, upon which he was desired

to rest himself, while two men, with loaded pistols,

lay upon the floor to watch any attempt to escape,

though no chance presented itself. Quin-tin,

whose arms had not yet been released, begged

to have them set at liberty, as the pain he suffered

from having them so long tied in one position

was intense ; but a deaf ear was turned to his request,

and he was compelled to lie down and bear

the pain as best he could. The whole of the day

was passed here ; and when night came, the same

mode of transit was observed, until Quintain found

himself in a boat, and upon the proud and rapid

Rhine. He could not tell what distance he was

carried, for the cloak, which had been removed

to facilitate his entrance into the boat, was restored

to its old place ; he felt, after rather a

lengthy progress, tho keel of the boat grate upon

the shore, and then he was rather roughly dragged

out and borne, some farther distance ; then he could

tell he was within the walls of some place, hurried

swiftly along. Presently his conductors

stopped ; the massive bolts of a huge lock were

thrown back, then followed other bolts, and soon he

was placed in a dungeon, which was rather spacious

than otherwise, and well lighted by a slanting

window. As soon as he entered, his cloak

was removed, heavy chains placed upon his wrists

and ancles, and one round his waist, which chained

horn to the wall — he was then left. He surveyed

his dungeon for a minute, and then his chains,

and almost wondered, if he" was] to be slain, why

all this preparation had been observed. He began

to think a different fate awaited him. It was not

impossible that Von Haalst thought a death by

the dagger would convey little pain, and bad

doomed horn to a lingering one within the dungeon

walls. If such was the case, there was still

hope. The Predecessors, he knew, would not let

horn perish without making every endeavour to

save horn, and, without knowing why, a strong

hope of effectual assistance from Frank Merritt

arose within him. He trusted something to the

Fehm-gerichte, which would not fail to be conscious

of his capture, by the stir which would be

made respecting it ; and then suddenly he remembered

the horn which had been given to horn

by the scope. He instantly felt beneath his

vest, where, for security, he had, upon receiving,

placed it; it was there, and he drew it forth at

first he was about to follow the directions he had

received with it ; but then he thought there was

little likelihood of any of the chopped getting

admittance there to aid horn, though their movements

and power was extraordinary and mysterious.

He determined upon reserving it until some

more imminent danger, than the present moment

offered, should make whatever service there was

to be derived from it essential. He turned his

attention to his chains, to see if some flaw did

not exist in some of the links, which would

enable horn to break them, and give horn, at

least, the liberty of the dungeon. He inspected

them with an eager and a practised eye, and a

strange feeling thrilled through horn, when he

caught sight of a private mark, which told horn

that years agone he had himself wrought them :

he looked no further, for he remembered that he

had exercised peculiar skill in their construction :

he was at the time very young, but a spirit of

emulation had made horn devote care to everything

he undertook. Devoutly now did he wish

that he had been less successful in his work, and

bitterly did he think of the pride with which he

had tested these very chains when they were

finished ; he seated himself despondingly, and

knew he was as securely confined as wrought 

iron could make him. An object, in the

midst of these reflections, caught his eye : it was

a dagger, rusted, lying upon the floor of the dungeon;

he could barely reach it, but managed, with

some little trouble, to obtain it ; it was well-finished,

and evidently had belonged to some person

of high station : he did not take much notice

of the workmanship, but examined the steel,

which was encrusted with rust : he shuddered ashe

believed it to be blood. He found the blade

was of the stoutest and best material, and, without

losing another moment, he commenced using

it as a file. By dint of unwearied assiduity, he succeeded

in cutting through the link which attached

horn to the wall ; he then cut through the band

which encircled his waist, a work of time and labor,

and so far he was free. His first act was to

climb the wall by the window, and, bowing

through the bars, endeavor to ascertain how and

where his dungeon was situated. For a long time,

and despite all his agility, he could not succeed ;

but, after various contrivances, the dagger proved

once more of service. He fixed it between the

inters' ices of the wall and made a foot hold: a

link of the chain, the one he had cut, served the

same purpose, and by these aids he was enabled to

reach the iron bars. A glance told horn that his

cell was one, probably of a series, hollowed out of

a solid rock ; it was washed by the waters of the

Shine, but was considerably above it. His heart !

glowed as he gazed on that beautiful river, lighted

up by broad sunshine, and glittering with millions

of diamonds, as they appeared beneath the bright

sun rays. The air seemed fresh and clear, and

the sky looked beautifully blue from contrast to

his gloomy dungeon. He sighed to gaze on so

fair a view, denied, perhaps, to be shared by horn

for ever. Long aud earnestly he gazed upon it,

and with thoughts which made horn very sad. At

length the appearance of a boat changed the current

of bis reflections ; he watched it closely as it

shot across the stream and approached the side

on which his cell was situated. There were only

two persons on board, the boatman and a man

wearing a cloak : as they drew near, the latter

rose and stood up in the boat, and Quintain's heart

beat fast as he fancied he recognised Frank Merritt

in this stranger. He fixed his eyes intently

upon horn, and watched with an earnestness which

lest no chance of recognition unavailable. Nearer

and nearer came the boat, bringing with it a certainty

of his surmise. The next point was, how

to acquaint horn with his situation: a thought

of the horn slashed through his mind — he instantly

drew it from his vest and blew three

blasts. The sound had hardly died away before

be perceived Frank Merritt raise a similar

horn to his lips and return the signal ;

as the last sound died from his horn, the signal

was repeated from another direction — in which

Quintain was unable to see — but it fell like balm

upon his heart, for it told of help and friends near.

With a gratified spirit he watched the boat until it

disappeared, and then he returned to the dungeon

floor, carefully removing the dagger and the link

for further use. He happened to turn his head

as he withdrew the former from its place in the

wall, and started at perceiving a fierce looking fellow

leaning against the edge of the door, which

was partly open, intently watching him. It

was too evident that he had been for sometime

observing him. Quintain, so wrapt up

in the unexpected appearance of Frank Merritt,

had not heard the sound of the bolts being

withdrawn; in truth, had thought, heard, seen

nothing but the sudden, unhoped for, unlooked for

prospect of deliverance ; he was, therefore, aghast

on beholding a spy upon his actions — one who

would, in all probability, counteract those chances

of escape which but the moment previously had

existed. His first impulse was to spring forward

and seize the man with the endeavor to detain

horn until some help should arrive from Frank,

but that intention was frustrated by the man, who,

simply pointing to a pitcher of water and a small

loaf, departed, fastening the door by drawing every

bolt with scrupulous exactness. With anxiety

and agitation Quintain paced his cell to and fro; he

did not yet actually despair, for the means by

which the members of the Fehm-gerichte accomplished

any end they had in view were so unfathomable,

that there was room for hope in a far

worse situation than that in which he was placed.

Frank Merritt, of whose connection with the secret

Tribunal he was unconscious, had displayed

the possession of a power as extensive as it was

mysterious, coupled with a daring which sew men

could equal — none surpass ; he had professed

friendship for horn, and he was at band. All he

had now to look forward to, was to delay any immediate

fate which the discovery of his communication

with some persons without might threaten

horn with, and he strained his energies to the

task of resisting any effort to slay horn to the last.

He had barely come to this determination when

he heard the bolts of the cell-door withdrawn with

a loud noise, the door itself flung back, and the

Count Von Haalst entered the dungeon. He

surveyed Quintain with a triumphant smile, which

was returned with one of scorn.

Didst thou think, serf, I would have stained

my sword with thy base blood ?" commenced Von

Haalst, in a sneering tone. " That I should have

met thee hand to hand to level myself to thy rank,

even though it brought me the pleasant satisfaction

of personally punishing thy presumption ?"

I looked for no particle of honor, in thought

or deed, from Count Von Haalst — I am therefore

not surprised to find that to the catalogue of his

vices I am to add that of liar and coward," returned

Quintain, in a cool tone.

I will not suffer myself to be moved by thy

words, but proceed to my purpose in visiting thee.

Know, fool, that thou hast stepped between mo

and a project upon which my heart was fixed ; for

'that, I doom thee to death — not the death caused

by the sudden plunging of a dagger in thy heart,

but a prolonged one of intense torture, and thus

I begin it. .agnes Flors is in my power — "

Liar I" calmly uttered Quintain.

Von Haalst gnashed his teeth, but curbed his

wrath to reply.

Flatter not thyself With the belief thy schemes

were successful," he said; "not only is Agnes

Flors in my possession, but thy sister also — she

is mine, mine irrevocably — the fool who sought to

keep her from my people perished for his temerity,

and she is mine, a creature now of shame and

dishonor.

Still a liar," exclaimed Quintain, with a fearful

struggle to preserve the air of calmness which he

had, from the moment of Von Haalst's entrance,

assumed. "In all degrees a wretched, paltry,

mean-spirited liar. Know, worthless villain, that

Agnes Flors is placed where thrice thy power or

thy subtlest stratagem could not reach her;

and my sister, polluted only by her name issuing

from thy lips, would find an hundred ways of dying

crc so vile a creature as thou could lay a dishonoring

hand upon her. Begone I thy presence

I loathe, thy calumnies I scorn ; thou hast no

power to raise one feeling in me but a blush for

my species that thou shouldst bear its outward

form."

Von Haalst, in a whirlwind of incontrollable

fury, poured forth the bitterest invectives, and,

swearing a fearful oath that Quintain should perish

by the most lingering death and awful torments he

could devise, rushed from the cell. He had departed

but a few minutes, when the solitude of

our hero was again broken in upon by the entrance

of two atrocious-looking ruffians, each armed with

1 )ng knives ; they stole into the cell with a stealthy

step, and au air which shewed they had conic

upon a villanous errand. They regarded the

prisoner with furtive glances, and moved, like a

brace of tigers, slowly and cautiously round, to

get a favorable opportunity of springing upon their

victim. Quintain drew a strong breath, and gazed

at them with all the coolness he was master of;

he turned as they turned, and at length ho said —

You are the messengers of my death ?"

Not your death," exclaimed one of the fellows,

with a ferocious grin, " wc are only going to bleed

you a little ; you are not to die yet awhile."

Look you," said Quintain, in a firm voice, " I

am not one who quietly endures while I have the

power of resistance ; I have a weapon here which

will serve me for want of a better." As he spoke

he grasped the chains which were attached to his

wrists, and were rather long ; they presented a

formidable weapon in the hands of a dexterous

person. " Now do your worst," he cried, " I defy

you."

Both the men appeared in no hurry to commence

their task, until one, with a hawk's eye,

fancying he saw the hands of Quintain relax their

hold, rushed forward, but received so severe a

blow from the chain that he drew howling back,

raging with pain. He uttered a few words, coupled

with imprecations, to his companion, and both

dashed forward ; but such was the dexterity with

which Quintain used hi - chains, he compelled them

once more to retreat without inflicting more thana

slight scratch upon him. Again they attempted

to spring upon horn, when a man darted through

the door, and interposing himself between Quintain

and his assailants, presented, with an air of remarkable

self-possession, a pistol at each of their

heads, vowing, in a low but determined voice, that

the smallest movement of alarm or attack, on their

parts, should gain for there a bullet through their

brains, At the sight of the pistols they started

back, and simultaneously retreated to a corner of

the dungeon. Cowardice is the usual accompaniment

of villany, and the sight of the pistols directed

with a firm and steady hand, and what

promised to be an unerring aim, made the ruffians

quail, and proved a sufficient injunction for there

to remain passive. This ally of Quintain's was,

as may be supposed, Frank Merritt ; he addressed

a sew words to Quintain in a hurried tone.

"In my belt you will find a file — take it and

use it — how, you know better than I can tell you

and be speedy. I will keep these knaves silent,

by fear or a bullet."

How did you know I had been dragged hither

?" asked Quintain, as he sought and found

the file spoken if. •

"Ask no questions now — it is not a time," replied

Frank, preserving his attitude without change,

to the no small discomfiture of the ruffians, who

could not endure the steady, immovable position

of the pistols directed towards them without a horrid

dread of their being, probably by accident,

discharged. They averted their eyes only to instantly

return them, again to take them away.

In the meanwhile Quintain, who had forged the

chains and knew their mystery, soon contrived to

set himself free : the constant use of the file in

the finish of choice work in iron proved of remarkable

use to horn in his present situation : he knew

in what part of the wrist-band to meet with the

least resistance, and also how to get through it in

the least amount of time. He had barely set his

see at liberty, after having removed the chain

from his wrists, when he was surprised by the

noiseless spectre-like appearance of three members

of the Fehm-gerichte. At a sign from Frank,

they seized the two assassins and bound them

back to back, and then with gags, with which they

were provided, they compelled them to silence.

They threw a cloak over Quintain's shoulders, and

led the way from the dungeon. Frank placed his

finger upon his lips to caution Quintain against

uttering a word, and, closing the door of the cell,

they followed their mysterious conductors through

various turnings and windings until they reached

a massive door, closed, but to which no fastening

was visible on the outer side. This, however,

proved no obstacle, for one of the chopped

touched a spring in the wall ; there was a sharp

click, and the door stood ajar ; it was opened, aud

they passed through, closing the door after them.

Quintain was surprised to find himself in a cave, or

excavation, in the solid rock, of considerable length,

which led to the side of the river, flowing beneath

the frowning walls of the castle from which he

had just escaped. They pursued its tortuous path

until the fresh air, canopied save by the sky,

hew upon their faces.

Your absence will, crc long, be discovered,"

said Frank Merritt to our hero, when they reached

this spot ; "wc must not, therefore, provoke the

chance of pursuit and re-capture by open flight —

wc must conceal ourselves until night approaches,

and then a boat will bear us across the river to a

spot where I have horses provided, that will bear

us swiftly to Antwerp."

You are a singular being," .said Quintain, with

some surprise ; " one moment, all open defiance —

the next, the advocate of the most cautious prudence."



Success is more certainly obtained by prudence

than rash daring," returned Frank, quietly ;

the way to command the attainment of a desirable

object, is to survey every adverse point, and

provide against it. Boldness and courage are to

he employed where their presence is essential, but

it tells little for the wisdom of horn who, out of a

weak feeling of adventurous daring, risks all he

has set his hopes upon — even his life. The man

who has well proved his courage need never fear

having that qualification questioned, because, in a

case of extreme difficulty, he exercises a prudence

to rescue horn from it, where mere daring would

fail. Take it as a rule, from one who has no base

fear of aught under heaven, and may challenge a

disposal of his assertion, that the best attribute

of true courage is discretion."

Quintain listened attentively to this advice, with

the resolve to profit by it ; in truth, it was uttered

in that quiet, but convincing tone, which gives

the best force to the argument, however simple.

It also had the effect of increasing a strange feeling

of respect for horn, which, despite the circumstances

under which they had met, grew upon our

hero, and invested horn with a kind of superstitious

awe. There was something remarkable in his

having almost always been near horn in any pressing

danger, and the manner in which he had extricated

horn now ; this wonder was added to by

the evident deference which the chopped paid to

his slightest movement. Frank, who seemed to

find a pleasure in perusing Quintain's countenance,

and watching the changes which various impressions

created in it, smiled as he observed the

earnest gaze which the train of thought Quintain

had indulged in induced horn to fasten upon him.

Now could I tell you," he said, " without

having visited the Demon of the Hartz or being

under obligations to the Foul Fiend for skill in

divination, the thoughts which are passing through

thy mid respecting myself. I confess to being

somewhat learned in features ; thine are easy to

read as a horn-book, but those of old and subtle

men, deep and cunning in the world's ways and

evil practices, are like a manuscript in secret characters

— impenetrable by the common eye, but

still perusal by those who have a key to them.

I drew my knowledge of thy character from an

attentive perusal of thy features ; I saw not a line

placed in them by evil passions or corrupt habits,

aud as it is always refreshing to the rough jostler

with the world's coldness to be allied to one good

and noble, so have I attached myself to thee. Erelong

thou shalt know of me all thou art desirous

to learn, and perhaps that history may create in

thy heart the kindred sympathy, which I confess

it to be my desire to obtain."

You have not surmised wrongly," returned

Quintain, " respecting my thoughts ; they were

upon you, with a strong desire to know more of

your history than I am at present acquainted with.

I can, however, wait the time until you see it fit

to relate it to me, and doubt not it will raise my

fullest, strongest sympathy'; for I need no minute

detail to tell me it must have been wild and full

of wonders. Your knowledge of matters transpiring

in distant places is evidently extensive, and

prompts me to ask you, that my mid may be at

rest, what has been the fate of my sister."

You shall hear for other lips than mine,

that no doubt shall still dwell upon you," replied

Frank. " Lübeck, relate to Quintain Matsys what

you saw crc you left Antwerp," he exclaimed, addressing

one of the chopped who stood at a

little distance from them. The man advanced,

and said, with peculiar brevity —

I saw you made prisoner — I witnessed the

desperation of your friend, who succeeded in defending

your sister against every attempt to carry

her off ; 1 saw assistance was rendered by citizens,

who bore your friend, fainting from wounds, to

your abode. He was accompanied by your sister.

I tracked you hither — and you have all I know."

The scope retired to his former station instantly,

and Frank, changing the conversation

from themselves, led it to subjects which interested

Quintain most deeply. He spoke of battles, of

wild scenes of glory, until all remembrance of

everything, save what he was hearing, lest him.

Frank, however, suddenly broke off in the midst

of an exciting detail to say —

Clouds are gathering up — wc shall have a

storm of a night's duration. Of two evils wc

must choose the least ; wc will quit this spot and

hasten to the boat — wc had better run the chance

of detection in crossing during the first burst of

the storrn, than remain here to be captured by

numbers no strength or courage on our part could

successfully resist."

I will be guided by you in all things respecting

our escape," said Quintain : " say but what

you wish done, and I am ready to attempt it."

A spirit thine fitted for any enterprize, however

important and critical," observed Frank with a

smile, and then speaking a few words to the

chopped, they all, though with the utmost caution,

quitted the spot and wound down among

the rocks to the spot where the boat was moored,

riding uneasily in the already troubled waters.

Quintain now observed more distinctly the signs of

an approaching tempest than he had done even

when Frank spoke of it; masses of dark clouds were

gathering up from the south-west with a rapidity

which foretold the tempest would be as violent as

durable ; the wind, which had previously denoted

its approach by long hollow moans, now came in

sharp gusts, howling as it came, and bending the

short stunted trees beneath its strength, cracking

withered branches, and rustling through the dried

leaves with a strange whistling sound.

The boat had need be a stout one, and the

rowers strong-limbed with bold hearts, to bear us

safely to the other side of the river," said Quintain ;

the wind gains force every instant, and the water

is rushing Uke a torrent."

Were the boat slighter and the hands less,

wc must, nevertheless, attempt the passage," said

Frank. "Wc shall defy pursuit, and it is better,

if wc must perish, to die beneath the broad deep

waters of the proud Rhine, than by the torture

which the owner of yon ruined castle would crush

us under, were wc in his power."

He would not dare attack your companions,"

said Quintiu, pointing to the scluippen, with surprise

apparent on his features.

He would dare do aught not likely to be immediately

discovered," returned Frank. "He is

thoroughly a villain, with courage enough to support

the character, under any hazard which has

no immediate result. He is by this time fully

aware that you are liberated through tho agency

of the members of the Holy Fehm-gerichle — "

Are you," interrupted Quintain " a—"

You shall know all anon," interrupted Frank

in his turn, with a smile at the very astonished

expression of Quintain's features ; "at present I

will confine myself to the subject of discourse —

Count Von Haalst is, with his myrmidons, by this

time in hot pursuit of us all, and hopes to capture

us before wc can reach far enough to be seen by

any likely to give information to the Secret Tribunal

; he cares not that the shipped have released

you ; lie would slay them that his secret might

be preserved. He is cunning enough to know

the Holy Council condemn not without sufficient

proof and evidence, and he would take such precautions,

that none but what was presumptive could

be brought against him. The abduction of Agnes

Flors, if brought against horn and proved — which

may easily be done — will only involve a comparatively

slight punishment; but whatever deed of a

deeper dye he may be guilty of, he has too well

hidden the proofs for it to be brought home to

him."

"He is guilty of his father's death," observed

Quintain. " The ruffian who sought to slay me,

on my return from Michael Flors' asylum, denounced

horn to the chopped who saved my life,

crc they executed horn for his murderous attack

upon mc."

Then his race is run," briefly returned Frank.

Lübeck," he ci hed, addressing the scope who

had acquainted Quintain with his sister's safety,

hurry forward lo those boatmen who are to

ferry us across the river, and see they are in readiness

at our approach — you know their lurking

place."

With a silent nod the man sprung forward with

considerable speed, scrambling over the masses

of rock with a celerity which was almost incredible.

He was soon lost to sight, though, urged by Frank,

our hero and the remaining members of the Tribunal

increased their pace, as the wind had now

begun to blow in earnest, and rushed past them

with a violence which added to the perilous nature

of their descent ; they, however, succeeded, after

a very circuitous path, to reach the spot where

the boatmen were awaiting them. A few words

were given by Frank aside to the shipped, who

immediately glided away, and then, alone, he

walked to the waters edge where the boat was

fastened, to see if the coast was clear. The moment

his back was turned, one of the boatmen

cast an anxious eye to the heavy mass of cloud

sweeping up the heavens, and the turning to our

hero, said —

Can you swim ?"

He replied in the affirmative.

"I am glad to hear it," said the man ; "wc

shall have a wet skin, and it may be, a long swim,

before wc reach the other shore. I don't wish to

alarm you, but it is as well you may know what

this weather promises, that you may be prepared

to act when the danger comes."

A prospect of buffeting with the waves raises

no alarm in me," said Quintain. " Nevertheless, I

am obliged by your friendly caution, and will, by

my promptitude when the moment of danger arrives,

shew you that it has not been lost upon

mc."

At this moment Frank raised his hand, in token

that the coast was clear, and Quintain was by his

side in a moment. He was closely followed by

the boatmen bearing the oars, an extra number of

which they had provided in come of accidents.

The wind had now increased to a violent degree,

and the wav«p at the river dashed upon the shore

with something more of the force and body of a

miniature sea. The little boat danced upon its

surface like a cork. Frank was the first to leap

into the frail vessel; lie was followed by Quintain and

one of the boatmen, while the other cast off the line

which confined her to a small spar, and, securing

the latter, pushed off, leaping on to the bows as she

launched into deep water.

Now," said Frank emphatically, when they

had taken their seats and the oars were shipped,

bend your backs to your task ; wc want all the

speed you can put into the boat's progress, till

wc are out of gun-shot from the castle."

The men returned a brief assent and commenced

their task, but the wind set dead against

them, and the current, which was very powerful,

also set upon the shore they were endeavoring to

leave behind. Their progress, therefore, though

they used their best strength, was but slow — too

slow for safety. The water, too, dashed over

the bow of the boat so incessantly, that, if it continued

at the same rate, there was no doubt the

boat would fill, and sink before they proceeded

much farther.

Wc had better risk the guns and fetch the

point below, crc wc attempt to cross," said one of

the boatmen ; "if wc keep on here, wc shall go

down before wc are half over the river."

You are right," said Frank, with a very cool

air; "run under the rock — the current will help

our speed."

I can manage an oar with some little skill,"

observed Quintain ; " you have two spare ones, I

will take one."

And I the other," said Frank, divesting himself

instantly of his cloak and doublet. "Does I

am doing," he exclaimed to Quintain ; " the Count's

marksmen will now be bewildered as to which they

ought to shoot, and they will not have time to

shoot all."

Quintain did as he was requested, and the

addition of the two rowers, as well as the changed

course, made an extraordinary difference in the

speed of the boat, which leaped over the waters

now with the swiftness of a race-horse. Their

approach to the rock upon which the castle stood

was suddenly greeted with a discharge of fire-arms,

which, though the bullets fell near them, did

them no carnage. A number of men, who the

previous minute had not been visible, now appeared

beneath the castle : and the half-ruined

walls skirting the part of the rock nearest the water

quickly displayed a body of troopers armed

with muskets, which they were not long in bringing

into use. The little boat, however, still undauntedly

held her course, in spite of wind and

missives, and running the gauntlet bravely, ran

it quickly too. The wind, which had almost become

a hurricane, had at least the effect of diverting

the aim of some of the best marksmen, and

sparing the tenants of the boat wounds which, in

fairer weather, they would have been in great hazard

of receiving ; but, at the same time, it rendered

their passage as dangerous from its fury.

The rapidity of the current swept them quickly

past the castle and the reach of their assailants'

fire-arms, and they made direct for a point of land

which jutted far into the stream, upon which the

current set with great force, and from thence to

the opposite side. It was by following the stream

their only chance of reaching the opposite bank of

the river depended. Their proceedings were, as

may be supposed, closely watched by the people of

Von Haalst, and as soon as it was observed that

they made for the point spoken of, a party, on fleet

steeds, instantly galloped to the spot, to await

their landing. Nimble however as they were,

the boat had gained the point, and was stretching

over to the opposite side when they arrived, and

they were only able to despatch after them a few

impotent shots and curses, and watch the boat

leaping from wave to wave like a bird of the ocean,

hoping it would not live to gain its destination.

There was every likelihood that their wish would

be gratified, for the storrn was by this time furious,

and the wind, though not blowing in the teeth of

the current, yet blew directly across it, and caused

such a rough breaking sea, if such a term may be

applied to the troubled waters of a river, that the

boat, though skilfully handled, nevertheless had

spray and water wash into her so fast and frequent

as, in a short time, to half fill her. The urgency

of their situation was sufficiently evident to the

boat's crew to make them exert every energy they

possessed to shorten the distance between them

and the point they were making for. In the

midst of their efforts, a vivid flash of lightning,

almost blinding in its brilliancy, illuminated the

surrounding darkness ; it was followed by a peal

of thunder which was like the report of a thousand

cannons. The darkness increased, heavy drops of

rain began to fall, the wind howled and swept past

them with more fury than ever ; the boat was

almost driven over the current by it. The water

rushed into the boat faster than before — still

Frank Merritt, bold and collected, spoke calmly

to his companions, but with words which kept

them vigorously to their task. j\gain the lightning

burst with blinding brightness from the dense

clouds ; again it was followed by a sputtering, and

then a crash of thunder, like a heavy discharge of

artillery in a cavern possessing a thousand echoes ;

then descended a flood of rain, so thick and heavy,

as to render sight impossible.

The boat is filling," shouted one of the boatmen,

" cling to the oars."

There was no time for more ; Quintain felt the

boat leaving horn, and in another instant he was

struggling with the waves. He kept a firm hold

of the oar, and struck out vigorously with his feet,

in order to clear himself of the sinking boat, anil

was soon beyond its reach. Twice he fancied he

heard a shout rise on the blast, but the uproar

of the wind and water prevented his attaching any

certainty to the sound. He found it difficult to

preserve his breath ; the water dashed every instant

over his head, beat into his face, and forced

itself into his mouth, as though it was resolved to

conquer every attempt he could make to save herself.

He, however, observed some dark object

driving towards horn, and, as well as be was able,

waited for it. It speedily overtook horn, and he

discovered it to be the boat, bottom upwards. He

gladly seized it, and he clambered up until he got

astride the keel, and then he resigned himself to

its guidance, still retaining the oar, in the expectation

of its yet proving of service to him. He

was nearer the shore than he anticipated, for after

a brief ride he felt. the boat strike with great violence

upon a piece of rock. It was repelled into

the deep water again, and once more struck so

suddenly and heavily, as to shake horn from his

seat and hurl horn among the foaming waters.

Here he found swimming of little use to horn ; he

was thrown upon the shore almost insensible — he

had barely strength to crouch upon the bank

beyond the reach of the waves, and then, utterly

exhausted, swooned. He knew not how long he

remained in this state, but when he recovered he

found himself before a fire in a cottage. By his

side stood Frank Merritt, in peasants' habiliments,

apparently none the worse for his immersion.

When our hero opened his eyes, he addressed

cheering words to horn, and quickly brought horn

to a state of consciousness of what had transpired,

as well as where he was at that moment.

In the struggle amid the fighting waters, just

after the boat sunk," he said, " 1 looked in every

direction for you, but in vain, until I saw the boat

- — ■ r-wwm -

Wanderer APPEALING TO THE rOTULACE.

before me, and you rise, like a spirit, to sit astride

it. I should have seized it too, but one of our

companions needed my aid, and seeing you were

"in comparative safety, I rendered such help as lay

in my power to horn, following you as well as tho

darkness would permit me to track you. The

boat, as I expected, drove rapidly lo the shore ; I

was close upon it when it struck, and saw you as

you sell overpowered to tho earth. I raised you,

and brought you hither."

Quintain thanked horn in a feeble voice, and, by

his counsel, sought repose on a rude but clean

couch. He slept soundly, and by day break,

when roused by Frank Merritt to continue his

journey, he felt himself to have completely recovered

from the effects of the last night's catastrophe.



CHAP. XX.

The ' Predecessors,' although they bad been

speedy in their movements, had failed in tracking

the captors of Quintain Matsys ; for the first man

in pursuit having failed to take the right path had

misled those who followed horn, and though very

little of the city was left searched, yet the part

where he was confined escaped. Vanderneer,

who with his young friend lent such willing aid,

did so without adding to the success. It was observed

that a very large number of soldiers, well

armed, during the time the search was proceeding,

were spread over the city, and made themselves

very active in endeavoring to discover our hero.

The officer commanding them every time he encountered

a party of Predecessors made the most

anxious enquiries, and at length, the frequent recurrence

of these questions excited the suspicions

of the young citizens, until one of there, crc he

gave a reply, boldly and bluntly asked the cause

of the interest which they displayed. The officer,

taken at a nonplus, hesitated, stammered, and

evaded the question as well as he was able ; but

let drop by chance that they were searching in

obedience to the orders of Count Idenberg. The

very name was enough. It was then quietly hinted

that it would be their wisest plan to refrain searching

further, for, did they succeed in taking Quin-tin

Matsys, he would be rescued at any sacrifice

or hazard. The officer, of course, took no notice

of this intimation, and the search proceeded with

the same perseverance on both parts, but, as maybe

supposed, without success. The following

morning, the burgomaster was not a little astonished

to receive a notification from the Count

Idenberg to the effect that he was instantly, as a

dutiful and loyal subject of his Imperial Highness

the Emperor Freiderich, to render up to the

Count, his high and imperial commissioner, the

daughter of Michael Flors, who, charged with high

treason, had quitted his prison unlawfully — the

said Agnes Flors to be held as a hostage for the

immediate appearance of her father, and his delivery

into custody of the imperial commissioner,

to answer the crime or crimes laid to his charge ;

his house, furniture, property, of all descriptions,

to be forfeit and held in possession until the accusation

was proved or disproved — if the former, it

was to bo confiscated to the state ; if the latter,

to be restored, unhurt. Vanderneer perused

this document, which he received while Agnes

Flora was present, with the feelings of one who

had a volcano in his breast which was pent up,

wanting but an opportunity to burst forth with

fury ; he could not command his feelings sufficient

to prevent horn promenading up and down

the room at a rapid rate, and, ultimately, to rush

out of the apartment, and from thence out of the

house, without answering one of the numerous

enquiries put to horn by both his daughter and

wife, who viewed his agitation with some alarm,

though of late they knew he had had full occasion

to exhibit feelings of this nature. It so happened

that a council, upon some important town affairs,

was to be held that morning, and held early.

Vanderneer, with the official document he had received,

visited every member of the council he

could call friend or partisan, and briefly related

the circumstances of the case, and displayed the

order. He was very pleased to find there was a

considerable demonstration of indignation from

all. He was strenuously advised not togiveup the

maiden, and one and all promised to stand by horn

in the consequences of his refusal. It was never

the intention of Vanderneer to have delivered her

up, even if he did not receive aid or countenance

from those who thus so readily came forward — he

would have hazarded wealth, liberty, even life,

rather than have sacrificed bis sense of justice ;

but now, with the aid and countenance of men

whose power and influence in the city were great,

ho would laugh every attempt to take her from

horn by force, to scorn. When he had obtained

the voices of his friends in office, his next object

was to N pair to the house of Flors, the keys of

which he held in his possession. With the assistance

of a few of his men he barred and barricaded

every door, window, and outlet through

which an entrance in any fashion might be effected;

when it was as secure as it was possible to make it,

he hurried to the town-hall, where it was his intention

to lay the matter before the assembled

members, and, by argument, and an appeal to their

sympathies, he hoped to gain their full concurrence

to the course of action he had adopted, and

their assistance to carry it out. After some matters

of importance to the town, but of minor interest

to Vanderneer, had been discussed and

settled, a burgomaster rose and stated that, within

the last few days, a very large number of soldiers

had made their appearance in the city ; they had

entered quietly, and had been posted in various

places where, in case of any opposition made by

the people to any arbitrary measure which the

high commissioner might endeavor to force upon

them, they could seize upon all the important posts

at a sew minutes notice, and thus hold the city in

command. They all knew, he said, that a citizen,

who by his skill in limning was an honor to Antwerp,

had been seized upon an absurd charge of

treason ; he had, however, been rescued, and was

now in some safe place. Still the act of the commissioner

was sufficient to shew that it was his

intention to use the Emperor's name and warrant

for any purpose which his caprice, or an ill-feeling

might dictate, without considering its justice or

consulting those who alone had the right in the

city to adjudicate upon the deeds of their fellow-citizens.

He, therefore, called upon them to exert

their prerogative, and not possess the shew of

power without the ability to wield it. Wanderer

rose immediately the last speaker concluded,

and with much animation and fluency of speech

he laid the case of Michael Flors before the council,

and, incidentally that of Quintain Matsys ; he

enlarged upon the unwarrantable use made of a

a questionable authority to drag a man from his

home, subject horn to a private examination before

interested parties, and then to confine horn in an

illegally constituted dungeon. He spoke of the

rescue by Quintain as the act of one who had the

honor of the city at heart, and by this deed had

released it from the odium of even tacitly consenting

to so base an act as that of which the Count

Idenberg had been guilty. He, with much pathos,

described tho position of Flors, guilty of no

crime, but compelled, like a tints or murderer, to

secrete himself from a child he adored, and the

prosecution of an art he loved. He commented

in strong terms upon the infringement of law and

justice which had placed horn in this situation,

and then proceeded to mention the farther oppression

which the Count was desirous of displaying

to the unoffending daughter then beneath

his roof.

I am a plain man," continued he, "humble in

my thoughts, my wishes, aud my situation ; but I

am an honest man, of free blood, and a true citizen.

I know what is due to justice, and 1 know that

law was only intended to carry out the ends of

justice ; for that aim and end I respect the laws.

There is no law to advocate and enforce oppression

and injustice ; it is the common duty of any

honest man to resist both when and wherever he

may meet with them, and, in the present case,

that citizen or magistrate who will sit quietly and

suffer quietly the rights and privileges of his order

and his fellow-townsmen to be violated, is unworthy

his office, his birth-place, or the security from

wrong which the law gives him. Agnes Flors is

in my house. She has done no wrong of which

the law can take cognizance. My dwelling, as a

free citizen and a burgomaster, is sacred to me

and mine ; I will keep Agnes Flors as my daughter

within its walls, aud let mo see the Count or

any other mis-called noble that will dare intrude

upon its sanctity while I have an arm to defend it,

or friends to aid me in its defence. Burgomasters

! fellow-citizens ! friends ! this is a question

which concerns all most deeply ; wc are all in

danger from the malignancy of this Count Iceberg

if wc suffer horn to pursue a course like that

he has commenced unchecked ; who shall say

he can find safety in his home if this Count sees

fit to challenge horn with treason? Who shall say

a wife or daughters are safe from these chaste

nobles, if the husband and father are compelled

to fly, and their unprotected females are demanded

and dragged away as hostages ? Burgomasters !

are wc puppets ? Do wc meet, like children, to

play at being magistrates and councillors, while a

high commissioner possesses the real power?

jure wc constituted for a mockery of authority ?

Are wc elected by our fellow-citizens, and invested

with certain powers, that, in the moment of their

danger, wc are to prove a nullity — to shew that

wc possess none of the very powers with which

wc were supposed to be endowed ? For my part,

the duty entrusted to me by my fellow-citizens,

when they elected me to my honorable post, shall

be fulfilled to its fullest, furthest extent. The

injury done to Michael Flors I assure, as one of

the guardians of the rights of my fellow citizens,

an outrage to me and to my position ; as such I

shall treat it, and act respecting it. And you,

my friends and fellow-councillors, let me appeal to

your sympathies, and to your just principles. I

do it in the language, perhaps, of a humble artisan,

but with the conviction of one who is advocating

that which is true and just. Place yourselves in

the position of Michael Flors, and to whom would

you look for aid? — would it not be to this very

council ? — would you not look to it for the safety

of your children and your property? Shall

wc then deny that assistance wc should expect

to receive ? Let it not pass forth to the

world that base injustice, from a power wc do

not recognise as rightfully interfering with our

duties, should, in our faces, commit acts with impunity

which wc discountenance as base and oppressive.

Join heart and hand with me, and

resist this tyranny in a commissioner who has no

right to proceed, in any case of this description,

without consulting this august body, and obtaining

its consent to the deed he may be desirous of

performing. I will not say more. I believe you

feel as I seel — as citizens of Antwerp, alarmed at

a precedent which, if suffered to pass unnoticed,

robs ye of safety iv your homes for ever, and, as

burgomasters, whose dignity in this strange and

unwarrantable exercise of authority has been insulted.

I have asked you for your aid to resist

the demand made to me by the Count Idenberg,

and I fully expect that, as true men, ye will not

withhold it from me."

Several speakers followed. All argued warmly,

but all enlisted their arguments in advocacy of

the cause which Vanderneer had espoused ; and,

crc the meeting broke up, it was unanimously

agreed that the burgomaster Vanderneer was to

be upheld in his resistance by the magistrates,

and to be furnished with men and arms, should

any endeavor be made by the Count to accomplish

his object by force. A few eager, rapid, earnest

thanks burst from Vanderneer's lips, and, with a

gratification indescribable, he returned this home.

No further notice had been taken as yet by the

Count Idenberg, and, with the haste which the

occasion demanded, he prepared for a struggle

which he knew must take place. He fully anticipated

that, upon his refusal to deliver up the

maiden, an endeavor would be made to compel

horn, which, upon being defeated, would be renewed

with a larger body of men than had at first attempted

it ; this, also, would be resisted, and he

trusted successfully, but it would make his house

the scene of an attack and, perhaps, bloodshed,

which would be terrifying in the greatest degree

to the females, and where to remove them for

safety was the question. A thousand schemes

were rejected as they presented themselves, for

none would enable horn to be by their sides and

protect his own house also. At last he resolved

upon fitting up an apartment in the centre of the

house, which was very extensive, and render it

secure from all intruders by the most ingenious

contrivance, as well as incapable of admitting

sound. As soon as this was imagined, he set

about its execution ; and it was completed by the

following morning. It was barely finished when

he was told that his presence was required by an

officer, accompanied by a party of soldiers.

Aware of the object of his visit, and prepared

with the answer, he hesitated not to see and speak

with the officer. He bade horn inform the Count

Idenberg that he greatly doubted his right to

make the demand, and, under the influence of the

doubt, he should certainly refuse to comply with

it. The officer briefly replied that he was ordered

to take by force that which was denied to a simple

command, and therefore expressed his intention

of searching the premises for the object of his

visit. Vanderneer's reply was the closing of his

door in the officer's face. As might be expected,

on instant effort was made to force it, but in vain ;

and Vanderneer, who had another mode of egress,

summoned the men he had provided for this occasion,

and hurried to the front of the house.

He unhesitatingly commenced an attack upoii the

besiegers of his door, and, in a lusty voice, bade

them fly, unless they were bent on meeting with

their deaths. He seconded his words with such

vigorous blows, and was so ably supported, that

the officer thought it essential to apply to his

prudence, and demanded a parley. It was granted

to him.

Your partisans out-number mine," be exclaimed,

when peace was obtained, " and I retire.

I have but done my duty, and I shall report to

Count Idenberg, the lord high commissioner, the

conduct you have pursued in opposition to his

command. You must abide the consequences."

"I am quite prepared to do that," returned

Vanderneer. " You may greet horn for me, and

tell horn, should he meditate another application

of this nature, he had better make it in person,

• and he shall have a warmer reception than you

have met with. I will trouble horn, too, with a

little piece of advice, which I think is calculated

to prove rather more instructive than agreeable.

I have nothing more to say to you — depart."

The officer turned upon his heel and marched

bis men away. A number of persons had by this

congregated, surprised by the skirmish, and anxious

to know its cause. Vanderneer, in reply to

several questions, addressed all.

If you will repair hither in half an hour," he

said, " with such of your friends as are not afraid

to raise their hands in a good cause, I will give

you a little insight into this matter, and perhaps

something more nearly concerning you than you

are aware of. Fail not to come, as you are true

friends to the cause of truth and justice."

A ready assent was accorded, and Vanderneer

retired to his house. The half hour had not

elapsed crc the busy hum of many voices drew

horn to his window. It was with a mixed seeling

that he beheld a multitude assembled before his

house which far exceeded any expectation he

might have formed of aid from fellow-citizens.

He surveyed them with an aspect of triumph ashe

thought of the chance Count Idenberg had of

obtaining Agnes if these men said horn nay, and

yet his prudence was alarmed when he perceived

that they were mostly armed with muskets, aud

displayed an organization which could only have

been the result of training. Vanderneer, however,

paused little for speculation ; the throng appeared

too numerous to be lightly kept waiting, and

therefore he made his way to the door. In his

progress he encountered Paul Breitstein. It was

worthy of note how interested this youth had of

late become in Vanderneer's affairs — how desirous

he was to render horn service — and, in short, how

much he did lo make his visits necessarily frequent.

There is a very large body of citizens without,

anxious to see you," he exclaimed, directly he

perceived the good burgomaster.

I know it, friend Paul," he returned; "and

between you and me, the anxiety is mutual. Will

you accompany me thither ?"

Anywhere," he briefly replied.

A sew paces further, and they heard the light

step of a female following them hurriedly. Both

immediately turned their heads, Paul rather the

quietest, for he imagined it could be no other than

Adeline. He was mistaken : it was Agnes.

What now, pretty Agnes ?" exclaimed Vanderneer.

" You look frightened."

And so indeed I am," she replied. " A

glance from the window hath shewn me that the

house is surrounded by men, armed ; let me hope

earnestly that you will not suffer me to be the

cause of any further trouble and hazard. My

unhappy situation has already plunged those into

danger, who, but for me, might have been very

happy : let me implore you not to add to my

wretchedness, by involving yourself in perils and

difficulties for my sake."

Fear thou not, fair Agnes ; I have lived long

enough to be wise and prudent," returned Vanderneer.

" Have no alarm about the present

matter — I am a burgomaster and it is my duty

to see justice done to those who have been

wronged. Such is my purpose now. Give me

thy hand for a sew minutes, and I will convince

thee of this."

He took her hand as he spoke, and led her to

the door, which was opened by one of his people,

and, attended by Paul and a few partisans, he

stood before the assembled multitude. Agnes

shrunk back, alarmed at the sight of so many

faces turned towards her, and would have hastily

retired, but that Vanderneer held her fast, ana

spoke encouragingly to her, bidding her, for he

father's sake, remain while he addressed a fe

swords in his behalf to them. No sooner did the

mass of men perceive Agnes Flors than they

gazed admiringly upon her, and hushed their

voices, as though to speak were a want of reste

to her. As Vanderneer perceived this, he felt

less hesitation in pursuing a course which a sudden

thought had suggested, and raising his hand for

the silence already reigning to be continued, he

said —

Fellow-townsmen — I shall detain you but a

few minutes, and speak briefly ; but what Ido

say will, I hope, be to the purpose. I did not expect

to see so many of yo answer the request I

made so short a time since, but there cannot be

too many of ye to hear what I have to say, for

all who dwell in this city are affected by that

which hath called forth my resistance. You behold

this maiden. Is one so fair and delicate

fitted to be the victim of insult and oppression ?

Is one so gentle and innocent framed to be the inmate

of a cell ? — and that is putting the most

charitable construction upon a fate designed her.

Is one whose purity and innocence are equalled

only by her loveliness, made to be a hostage in

the hands of a noble for tho appearance of one

unjustly accused, who, innocent of crime, is yet

compelled to lurk in secret places to avoid the

evil intentions of a depraved noble ?"

No, no, no," burst from lips in all directions,

accompanied by expressions of indignation which

lest little to doubt respecting the intentions of the

utterers. Vanderneer smiled in triumph.

This is the daughter of Michael Flors, whom

ye all know by repute, and none know to disrespect,"

he continued. "Ve have hoard the circumstances

connected with his imprisonment."

And his rescue by young Quintain Matsys,"

cried a voice in the crowd.

Aye," observed Vanderneer, with a sorrowful

expression stealing over his face, " by the gallant

youth who has fallen into the hands of enemies,

from whose relentless animosity there is little hope

of rescuing him."

A strong shudder passed through the frame of

Agnes, and the same voice in the crowd shouted —

By heaven ! he shall be rescued, if wc pull

down the castle of every noble within a hundred

leagues to find him."

A roar of applause followed this exclamation,

and as the clamor subsided, the earnest faces and

glittering eyes of the multitude were once more

turned to Vanderneer, who then pursued his subject:



It is not for me to tell you that a simple man

likcFlors,devoted to his art gentle,unaffected,guile-

less, should not deal in plots and treasons. There

isnoonedwellingin Antwerp who ever sawthegood

painter, or heard of horn through those who knew

horn, but would feel instantly that a charge of treason

was as false as base. And yet he is dragged

from bis house, and, though saved from a foul

dungeon, is still compelled, like a felon, to remain

hidden — separated from his only tic, this child,

who is all tho world to him. Citizens of Antwerp

! are wc to sit quietly down and suffer these

nobles thus to trample on our rights ? Are wc

to place our necks tamely and humbly beneath

the yokes of those, who have not even the attributes

of virtue in common with us ? Are wc unresisting

to suffer our hearths to be violated —

ourselves, guiltless of crime, to be tom from our

families and plunged into loathsome cells, at the

caprice or spite of those who have no just cause

to fix this evil upon us, without raising the red

right hand of self-defence and justice?"

No, no," burst forth unanimously from the

people— a storm of exclamations.

No, brother-citizens," cried Vanderneer, excitedly,

" no. Ve are honest men and true — you

render unto Caesar that which is Caesar's, and you

expect the same to be done unto you. Count

Idenberg, the lord high commissioner, under a

warrant duly signed and sealed by the Emperor —

Heaven save the mark I must, forsooth, challenge

and arrest Michael Flors for treason and imprison

hir n; but thanks to gallant friends, he is liberated,

and, forsooth, this lord high commissioner demands

this fair maiden as hostage for her father's

appearance. Mark the villany of the excuse,

framed to cover the basest, most diabolical, intention."



A mvrmvr of indignation ran through the mob.

What should I do in reply to this demand ?"

continued Vanderneer. " What did Ido ? I

spurned his fellows who came to execute his atrocious

command from my doors, promising his

Courtship a hotter reception than they had received,

if he favored me with a personal visit to

enforce his command."

A roar of applause, a volley of deafening cheers

followed these words, and by the hearty sound of

the voices, and the animation of the countenances,

it was easily seen how earnestly the men felt the

response they gave.

I have laid this lord high commissioner's proceedings

before the council," proceeded Wanderer,

" and have received their unanimous approbation

to the line of conduct I have pursued and

intend to persevere in, and a promise of their

[support, should I need it. Brother-citizens I I

will shed my best blood, I will lay down ray life,

crc a ruffianly hand shall desecrate this maiden

by its touch ; and moved to this resolve as lam

by her own gentleness and innocence and the respect

which I bear her father, yet am I as much

moved for the honor, and the rights, and the

liberties of ray fellow-citizens. I stand up for

the right ! and the hand that levels me shall be

heavy. Citizens ! Antwerp is full of soldiers,

who have been insidiously introduced ; they are

gradually gaining possession of important points,

where a few sturdy hearts may maintain their

ground against hundreds. Is there no move in

their introduction : I need say no more — look

well instantly to this, and take your own precautions

; but let them be taken Were I now to enlarge

on this matter, other ears than those my

counsel is designed for may drink it in and üse it

to your disadvantage ; you shall bear more of

this, and that shortly — at present, a strong effort

will be made to compel me to render up this fair

girl. 1 will contest inch by inch for her. Shall

I have to appeal to your sympathies, when a throng

of soldiers surround my dwelling, in earnest words

and imploring mien, to stand up for the right ?"

Wc will stand by you to the death," cried

fifty voices, echoed instantly by all the rest.

"Wc will stand up for the right against the

world's might," shouted a voice in the crowd.

•' I expected no less from ye, brother-citizens,"

exclaimed Vanderneer, placing his hand upon

his swelling breast —"I ask no more, and

from my heart, as God sees, I thank you. I

will no longer keep you — retire, but be in readiness

to support the true cause when the hour arrives.

It is not my cause alone ye will stand up

for, but the time is fast approaching— it may be

days, it may bo but hours — when the question

is answered whether wc remain the free citizens

of Antwerp, or the slaves — the serfs of whatever

noble may choose to claim us. Farewell — wc

shall all meet again anon, where hearts as well as

hands will be tried."

The citizens gave horn a prolonged and hearty

cheer as, waving his hand, he retired into ibis

house, and many an admiring eye followed tho

fair form of the painter's daughter, and many a

vow was taken to do good battle in her service.

There was a party of men among the assembled

multitude who had spread themselves widely

among the mass, and had done Vanderneer no little

good in the earnest manner in which they

echoed his sentiments and urged those around

them into the same disposition as themselves. It

was one of this party who had made the remark

respecting Quintain Matsys when the burgomaster

had alluded to horn, and was the same man who

had so resolutely opposed the officer in the marketplace

when he had sought to tear down the

bill which the Predecessors had posted. "These

men, who were chiefly smiths, as the mob quietly

dispersed, gradually joined each other until they

formed one group, aud then in a body, they slowly

moved from the spot.

.-"Are there any tidings of Quintain?" asked

one of the men to a companion.

Not as yet," he returned ; " Heinrich did not

seek his bed until the night was advanced, and before

the sun rose he departed again. I saw horn

before he quitted, and he tells me that he fears

our young master is not in Antwerp ; he will,

however, know for certain whether he is or not

this morning. He tells me that he has discovered

something which he did not expect, but he would

not reveal it ; he says there is lime yet for that."

Now would I give the best of my little worldly

store for a fair meeting with the knaves who

made horn prisoner. By the holy spirit of the

anvil ! but I would use sword harder than I have

used hammer," exclaimed another of the men,

with much excitement in his tone. The whole

party warmly echoed this sentiment.

"Whither go you now?" asked the first

speaker, addressing those who were leading the

way. "If wc are to be of aid to the burgomaster

and the pretty daughter of the painter, it will he

as well not to place many miles between us.

Count Idenberg is no slumberer when he has a

project to carry out ; it will not be long crc a

very strong body of soldiers surround his house—

I should not be surprised to see a piece or two

of cannon with them."

"They may bring the cannon in welcome,"

exclaimed one of the smiths, with a laugh ; "it

was my morning's work to spike every one I could

get near, while those who should have guarded

them slept."

That was a wise thought," observed one of the

party ;" a bullet does less execution than a cannonball

in such close quarters — Wc will stop here,"

he said suddenly, coming to a house before a

little hostel bearing the common sign of the Flask.

Here shall wc be removed from notice, and here

wc shall be within call of the worthy burgomaster

and his friends."

They all entered as they spoke and took possession

of tho small apartment devoted to the reception

of such visitors. They dispersed themselves

about it with an easy air and in a picturesque

manner ; some sat upon stools, some lay upon the

floor, others stood or, as it suited their fancy,

perambulated the room.

"Ho I host !" exclaimed a fine looking sturdy

fellow, " wc will taste of wme — some of the best

ye have."

Aye, my jolly hearts," responded the host

heartily, " that shall ye— wine fit for prince's at a

poor man's price."

But that I know you to bo a honest tapster,"

said the smith, " I shou'd, for that speech, have

consigned you in my judgment to the depths of

THE SMITHS OP ANTWERP CAROUSING IN THE HOSTEL.

knavery : ape not the gesture and speech of those

who serve nobles with fawning tongue and crawling

mien — speak out honestly and truly. Rich

wine at a peasant's price, forsooth I When did

the poor man obtain with his humble means aught

to cope with that purchased by the rich man's

gold ? Bring us the best that ye know wc can

pay for, but do not laud it as equal to the nobles

beverage, unless you would have us deem it unfit

for a poor man's stomach."

The landlord, somewhat abashed, withdrew,

and, his pride being touched, he returned with a

stoup of wine of a superior quality and flavor, in

order that his word might be unquestioned. It

received its due praise, and, when emptied, it was

replenished. Two of the company, after remaining

some little time, were dispatched to see what

was passing; the others remained to finish the

wine and discuss the merits of the expedition they

were about to join. They spoke darkly and mysteriously,

as men who were engaged in matters of

deeper importance than that of Vanderneer's, and

hinted at secret meetings and the organization of

masses of men, which told more strongly of revolt

than aught previous. The pretence of Quin-tin

Matsvs was evidently a point much desired,

and the smith, who had reproved the landlord,

spoke warmly upon the matter.

He is not in Antwerp," he said, " or the predecessors

would, crc this, have found the spot

where bis captors had concealed horn I heinrich,

the closest searcher and discoverer of spots almost

undiscoverable, would not have been baffled so

long if he had not been carried from hence. Ido

not despair of seeing horn again, if it be within the

limit of human means to escape from whence he is

confined ; aud glad shall I be, for he has agility,

tact, and bravery — a manner of leading and directing

men's energies, which you don't often see

in one of his age and build. A speedy release

to horn, comrades, or a bitter revenge for his detention."



The smith, who bore the name of Reginald,

raised his glass to the toast, and his comrades

readily responded to it ; but crc he could apply

it to his lips, oue of their friends, who bad been

sent to reconnoitre, entered hastily. He laid his

hand upon the shoulder of Reinald, and, pointing

to the street, said hurriedly —

There is a body of soldiers pouring down the

street in numbers sufficient to conquer half Antwerp;

they mean to try the burgomaster's strength

in earnest."

-\ye, and ours too," said Reinald ; " now, my

hearts, for a firm hand and a sure foot — a staunch

heart and an eagles eye — aud now, for the love

of freedom, strike home."

The wine was finished, and the smiths departed.

They separated on leaving the threshold, and

hastened to the scene of action by different routes,

to unite before the burgomaster's house at a moments

notice. They quickly arrived there, and

found their companion had not exaggerated. The

Count Idenberg had used the powers invested in

horn as lord high commissioner with an unsparing

baud ; he attended in person, and expected, by

this demonstration of power upon a small occasion,

to startle the good citizens of Antwerp, aud overawe

them. It had the contrary effect ; — it certainly

surprised the chief part, for the arrival of

the soldiers, from different parts of Germany, at

the city, had been quietly and skilfully managed,

so that a rumor only of their presence existed, and

that was scarcely believed : now it was confirmed,

and men who would have taken little heed of the

skirmish — for such things were frequent in those

days — which the burgomaster's resistance would

have caused, viewed the appearance of so large a

body of military as a direct attack upon their free

rights — an unequivocal determination to enslave

them. To at once display a decided and determined

opposition to this intent struck all equally,

and, instead of shrugging their shoulders with a

remark of sympathy, each man, with a stern brow,

sought the spot where his arms were deposited

and supplying himself with necessary weapons for

offence or defence, repaired to the scene of action.

The news flew like wildfire through the city,

and business was suspended that the result might

be seen. Crowds followed the troops, their numbers

increasing from all parts ; and by the thoughtful

faces aud singular quietness of demeanor, a

practised eye might have judged the troopers had

few friends among them. The burgomaster had

been informed of their approach long before their

arrival, and was well prepared, not only to receive

them, but to give the Count Idenberg the warm

greeting lie had promised him. When, therefore,

the troops drew up before tho house, he made his

appearance at a window and demanded tho reason

though he knew it well — they had honored horn

with their presence. A reply was given instantly

by the Count, to the effect that he held the daughter

of an attainted traitor, whom he, as high commissioner,

thought fit to detain in custody until

her father, who had escaped and braved his

power, obtained her liberty by delivering himself

up to the hands of offended justice ; or to receive

the doom adjudged her father, if he did not make

his appearance within a given time. The Count

looked round at the multitude to see the effect

which the last sentence had created ; he had done

it more for the sake of completing the awe which

he supposed the soldiers had created, than for any

real intention he had in carrying it out ; indeed,

the object of obtaining possession of the painter's

daughter would have rendered it impossible of

execution, but it struck horn as being an admirable

and an easy means of cowing the good citizens.

It was an ill-judged remark, as he proved it. A

thrill of horror certainly ran through the people

when they heard it, and a groan escaped from

more than one lip ; but there was no sign exhibited

of intimidation. Vanderneer with difficulty suppressed

his feelings of indignation, and replied —

My Lord High Commissioner, there dwells

not the man in Antwerp who docs not feel satisfied

of the innocence of Michael Flors ; but had he

been guilty in the highest degree, there exists not

the law, human or divine, which permits the punishment

of the innocent for the guilty. That the

painter's gentle daughter is innocent of any crime

against the state, not even you, Count Idenberg,

prejudiced as you are, could doubt ; and therefore,

no stretch of authority but must be unjust and

base can reach her — and shall not, while I have

the power to protect her. She is beneath my

roof; I glory in saying — in boasting it — and I

have yet to learn that any noble, or high commissioner,

though acting under the Emperor's warrant,

dare unjustly place an intruding foot upon

tho threshold of my home. My house is sacred

to me, a free citizen and burgomaster — it is my

castle, and while I have life I will hold it against

any power that seeks unjustly to violate it. Free

citizens of Antwerp," he cried, raising his voice

yet louder, "have I not spoken that which is fair

and just ?"

A stentorian cheer, which startled the Count,

burst from the lips of the assembled multitude.

I will stand up for the right," shouted Vanderneer

; " will ye not also — for your homes — for

your rights and liberties ?

A cheer more tremendous in its loudness than

the first responded to his words.

You hear that, Count Idenberg," said Vanderneer,

with a proud air of triumph ; "be warned

by it — it is no idle echo of my sentiments. Seek

not further to disturb the peace of my dwelling, or

I will treat you as I would a foreign enemy seeking

to pillage my house and destroy its inmates."

He waved his hand to the people, who answered

it by a third cheer, and then he closed the window

and disappeared.

The Count bit his parched lip, white with excitement,

and briefly said to the officer in command

—

Clear the street of the people, and force in

the door of yon stubborn fool's dwelling."

A multitude so vast as that which had assembled

in the street in which Vanderneer resided was

not to be easily dispersed ; particularly on an occasion

like the present. They anticipated an act

of base injustice to be perpetrated, which, if permitted

to be done with impunity, would hereafter

expose them, one and all, to a similar exercise of

tyranny. Antwerp was at this time a city of too

much importance, both as regarded its commerce

and the wealth of its inhabitants, to bear quietly a

yoke, detestable in every respect, to be imposed

upon it ; and therefore these citizens felt a

personal interest in the side Vanderneer had espoused,

which would induce them, at every hazard,

to support him. If they had quietly suffered

themselves to be dispersed, they would not have

seen to what extent the Count had stretched the

authority he usurped ; and they felt that afterwards

they would not have so good a plea for opposing

horn, as in resisting at the moment the first

act of oppression he endeavored to perform. Few,

if any, were without weapons of some description;

very many bad muskets, and were well supplied

with ammunition ; some had pikes, others had

spears, and sew of the smiths but what bore their

tremendous sledge hammers. When the order

to clear the street was given by the Count, every

citizen who heard it stood firm, and appealed to

his neighbour to do the same. Thus it quickly

spread among the multitude, and the soldiers who,

in obedience to the command, urged their horses

among the people, found that not the slightest intention

of a departure was visible. When they

endeavored to enforce it, by riding over those

nearest to there, the bridles of the horses were

seized by strong hands, and they were thrust back.

Simple acts like these led to others more violent,

but were attended with the same results. A party

of men, during these small skirmishes, were busily

employed with axes, of various descriptions, in

endeavoring to force open the door of Wanderer's

bouse ; but as the door withstood their

efforts for some time, and as the multitude grew

thicker instead of lessening, Count Idenberg began

to grow anxious. He was not a man to be

easily alarmed, but he could not view the stern,

determined aspect of the people without some

misgiving. The thought crossed horn, too, that

perhaps he had been a little too premature in

making this ostentatious display of the power he

fancied he possessed — but he had gone too far to

retreat, and he was, at least, experienced enough

to know, that what was to be done must be done

by a coup de main, or he must retreat with the

certainty of most diminished prospects of ascendancy.

He therefore repeated his order in a

more peremptory manner to the officer commanding

the troop to disperse the multitude, and those

attempting to force the door he bade blow it open

with gunpowder. The soldiers rode among the

people, many of there lo be unhorsed and made

prisoners ; their comrades endeavored to rescue

them, and used their swords in their efforts. The

people retaliated with muskets, and the Count,

with feverish anxiety, saw a collision, of a character

formidable enough to fill horn with uneasiness,

inevitable. There was very soon, from the report

of a single musket, a rapid discharge of a hundred.

The troopers plunged their horses into the midst

of the mob with a view of riding them down ; but

the horses were shot or stabbed, and their riders

quickly shared the same fate. A band of a hundred

men, who, at a signal, had congregated

together, made a sudden rush to the door of Vanderneer's

dwelling, sweeping the troopers before

them, and taking possession of the powder just

about to be fired, as well as the door-way. Count

Idenberg immediately ordered them to be dislodged

; but this, though attempted with much

bravery, was found impracticable ; at least fifty

were armed with pikes, and these they presented,

and formed a bristling line of glittering steel which

the troopers were unable to surmount. Their

companions behind them, with considerable skill,

directed a heavy fire of musketry, and several times

caused the troopers to fall back, though they were

rallied by their officer and returned to the charge

with impetuosity, to be again driven back. The

numbers of the people kept increasing, and as

those who surrounded the door of the burgos aster

made way for their friends, who continued pouring

in, tli3y increased the distance between the

troopers and Vanderneer's residence every minute,

and did not fail to give lusty cheers as they grew

conscious of it. The troopers, who were surrounded

by at least three times their number, all

determined men, grew dismayed ; they had no

room for action ; they were huddled together, the

mass of people presenting so firm a front, they

were unable to penetrate or force them back.

Shots were pouring upon them in all directions,

and not the least disastrous in its effects, was the

firing from a window of a lower apartment in

Vanderneer's house ; it was incessant and well-directed.

Count Idenberg quickly saw that considerable

havoc had taken place among bis troop,

and there existed but little chance of retrieving

his loss by remaining exposed as be was, and his

men lighting almost single handed ; he therefore

deemed it better, for the present, to give up the

intention of forcing his way into Vanderneer's

house, and, drawing his men into a body, make a

dashing charge and cut his way to his brothers

castle, where the greater part of the troops were

quartered. At this juncture, there arose among

the mob a shout in favor of the Count ; a number

of voices called on the good, true, and loyal citizens,

to side with, and assist the lord high com j

missioner, and, in the Emperor's name, to assist j

in capturing those who offered opposition or resistance

to his commands. It was with a mixture

of disgust and wonder that the citizens heard this

cry coming from tho very centre of their body,

and they looked with eyes of eager curiosity upon

those who uttered it, that for the future they

might burden them with their scorn. Among

all who shouted, there was not a face a citizen

could recognise as being known to him. They

were none of there natives of the city, it was evident,

by the contour of their features and the

style in which they wore their mustachios and

beards, and quickly the citizens began to surmise

they were hired knaves sent by the Count, by

bribery, to mix among the people and create a

diversion in his favor. Immediately such an idea

flashed across them, they took a closer survey,

and asked a few questions, for which these men

were unprepared. They hesitated and prevaricated

— they used language of the worst description,

and, in their efforts to appear like sturdy,

honest citizens, made themselves as much like

rough scoundrels as nature had really fitted them

to be. The citizens having penetrated their flimsy

disguise, speedily weeded them from their party,

and with little ceremony hurled them among the

soldiers, who, not being aware they were friends,

commenced a furious attack upon them, which

would have thinned their numbers awfully, if, by

dint of shouts and screams, and most cowardly

gestures, they had not made themselves known as

men in the pay of the Count Idenberg, and then,

many of there wounded, and all frightened, found

a shelter in the centre of the troop. A few were

lest among the citizens, but, taking warning by

the fate of their companions, they remained passive

; or if they did make a demonstration, it was

to vociferate lustily in favor, of justice, freedom,

and the gallant burgomaster. The Count at first,

by tho uproar which the shouts of these ruffians

created above the dm of arms, began to hope that

a diversion was really taking place in his favor ;

he was, therefore, no little enraged upon ascertaining

the truth — he inveighed bitterly against

them, and then gave the necessary orders to execute

the manoeuvre ho had last decided on. The

men were drawn up in a solid body, and then commanded

to cut their way to quarters. The citizens,

however, saved them so dangerous and sanguinary

a movement: no sooner did they perceive

their intention to quit the burgoraaster's,than they

opened a lane for there to pass through, taking

care to follow up close behind, to prevent their act

being mistaken for sear. The troopers were

plainly not displeased that their departure was unmolested,

but several of there could not refrain

from cutting with their swords at some of the citizens

as they galloped past them, for which they

had, with scarce an exception, to acknowledge the

receipt of a bullet.

The Count, when once clear of the mass of people,

who did not fail to acquaint horn, in strong

terms, with their opinion of his conduct, made direct

for his brothers castle, and, with a surprise

as great as it was annoying and humiliating, he

discovered the drawbridge up, cannon commanding

every approach planted on the walls, and the

flag of the Baron Hainault flying from one of the

turrets. He caused a trumpeter to announce ibis

presence, and when the warder, in reply, demanded

the purport of the summons which had brought

horn to the walls, tho Count himself, with strong

indignation, commanded horn to lower the drawbridge

and open the castle gates, that he and the

imperial troops might enter. The warder returned,

respectfully, that he was commanded by the Baron

Hainault to inform horn, that if he chose to enter

alone, his brother would receive horn; but that the

castle would still present the same aspect as at that

moment it did, if he still requested admittance

thus attended. The Count heard horn in silence

and with much bitterness of spirit, but he knew his

brothers temper too well to suppose that persuasion

or raging would induce horn to alter his determination

; he therefore briefly said he would

seek au opportunity of coming alone, in compliance

with the Barons wish, and, turning his horse's

head from the castle, he rode with a thoughtful

air from the spot. He was chagrined beyond expression

at this most unexpected turn which affairs

had taken, but endeavored to conceal it under an

air of indifference worn with difficulty. At first

he knew not where to take the troops : he was

still followed by the multitude, and could read in

their insulting looks the contempt in which they

held him. His bosom contained a fire which he

inwardly swore should only be quenched by their

blood. The return of the Baron Hainault at such

a moment, and followed by a line of conduct upon

which he had never calculated, helped the bewilderment

which the successful resistance of the

townspeople had thrown horn into ; but it did not

prevent horn swearing a most bitter revenge. He

decided, after a minutes thought, to conduct his

followers to the castle, situated in the outskirts of

Antwerp, of a noble named Count Luischen, one

whose opinions respecting " the commons" were

the same as his own, and who was ready to join,

heart and hand, in enslaving the people, as soon as

there was a possibility of bringing it to bear. The

multitude accompanied horn thus far, and watched

the gates close upon horn and the troops in silence ;

then they raised a cheer, and departed. They

made direct for the marketplace, expecting that

some influential men among them would address

them. They stood in little groups, discussing the

matter they had taken so brief and decisive a part

in, and reiterated their determination to stand up

for the right, in defiance of every hazard. As no

one addressed them, after the lapse of an hour

they separated, each man quietly returning to his

trade; and before the sun had made a short stride

past meridian, there was no sign in the city that

an rmrii.li: had taken place. The imperial troops

had borne away their own dead and wounded —

the citizens had provided for theirs with a tenderness

and consideration, which told those sufferers

who were conscious of the attentions they received,

they had done themselves honor in their friends'

eyes. The routine of business went on as before,

but there was a sterner brow and a more thoughtful

character of expression in the features of the

workers and artificers, that spoke of a mine that

would not be sprung without danger to those

against whom it was directed.

That afternoon a council was evoked, from

which no burgomaster dwelling in Antwerp was

absent ; it was specially summoned to discuss the

morning's proceedings, and as, but with few exceptions,

they were all engaged in the affray, there

was little doubt as to what conclusion they would

come. The proceedings, however, had barely

commenced, when, to the surprise of all the members,

the Count Idenberg, robed as a lord high

commissioner, entered, and took his place on the

seat usually devoted to persons of distinction,

whether ambassadors belonging to a foreign

power, or from the Emperor. He wore an aspect

in which cool impudence superseded every other

expression, and gazed upon the assembled burgomasters

as though he expected them to fall down

and worship him. They, however, who had witnessed

his approach with wonder, regarded horn in

silence, and for a short time no one uttered a word.

At length Vanderneer, who was present, rose and

addressed the president of tho council, who was a

man that had risen from the humblest ranks, by

superior intellect, to his present high station :

he possessed a mid more remarkable for its solidity

and sound reasoning powers than for any

other quality ; he could detect, with the quickness

of thought, dross from the real metal, and held

nothing superior to justice. He was eminently

fitted for tho post to which he was raised, and

those who appealed to horn for redress might be

sure, at least, of receiving what was justly their

due. Vanderneer, when he commenced, turned

his eye upon the Count, and there read such an

expression of malignity and hatred, as satisfied horn

how much mercy he might expect should the noble,

in any future struggle, obtain the ascendancy.

He returned it with scorn, and said —

I should be glad to learn to what cause wo are

indebted for the honor of a visit from the lord

high commissioner, and also, whether he has the

right to demand a place in this council."

There is a law which gives the right to any

special messenger from the Emperor to demand

an audience, and receive it," returned the president

; " but unless he conforms to the letter as well

as the spirit of the law, he does not possess a'

right to a seat in this assembly. Probably the

Count will favor us with an explanation of the

honor he has done us, by staling the grounds for

presenting himself before the council."

I hold a warrant to which the Emperor's sign-manuel

is affixed," said tho Count Idenberg, in a

cold tone. "It gives roe a discretionary power

in the prosecution of an object as important to the

Emperor as to those connected with horn, by service

or by ancestry. I, therefore, may be held

excused, if I confine to my own breast my motives

for pursuing a certain line of conduct ; but

thus much it suits me to inform you — I know

that your intention in meeting is to make a decided

expression of your sentiments, as those of

the great body of the people of Antwerp, respecting

the proceedings of this morning. I confess I

am anxious to learn by what strange species of

justification they can be upheld. I also come, in

the Emperor's name, and as his representative,

to complain of the attack made upon roe and my

followers by the citizens, by which several of the

imperial troopers have lost their lives, and the

dignity and honor of the Emperor have been insulted

; and to request of you, or, if it be necessary,

to demand from you, the requisite powers

and assistance to punish those who raised their

hands against the authority of the Emperor in my

unworthy person."

Unworthy indeed," muttered Vanderneer.

Have you aught further to say ? " asked the

president, as the Count ceased speaking.

Not at present," he replied, and seated himself.



Your complaint shall be heard, and you shall

have such justice as it demands," returned the

president ; " but as yet you have not shewn to me

that you have a special mission to us from the Emperor,

and are therefore not entitled to the benefit

of the law of which but now I spoke. You will,

in consequence, excuse me if I request you to withdraw,

during a discussion wc were about proceeding

with when you entered, and which cannot with

propriety be continued before you."

I shall comply with no such request," cried

the Count, springing to his feet ; "by virtue of

the warrant granted to me by the Emperor I could,

if it so pleased me, convoke a council from which

none of ye, fearing the Emperor's wrath, dare

remain."

Dare," echoed tho president, the blood mounting

to his forehead. " Dare ! Wc have yet to

learn that the Emperor's power over the free citizens

of Antwerp is so potent."

Indeed," exclaimed the Count, with a sneer ;

I shall marvel if ye do not find it a bitter lesson

— of that anon. Understand me : I move not

from hence until the council is broken up, unless

by force of arms ye eject me — and against such

a proceeding am I well prepared."

Count Idenberg," exclaimed the president, in

terms of strong indignation, " you presume too

much upon a document which wc have but your

bare word to prove is in existence. It is not our

wish to insult the Emperor in the person of his

representative, or the preparations you have so

well made would not prevent us compelling your

absence — you can therefore remain ; but, much

as wc should respect the authority of the Emperor

in the person of his high commissioner, had wc

good and sufficient proof that the lawful powers

were vested in the person clainiiug that station,

you will not be surprised that wc, not being sufficiently

satisfied by collateral evidence that you

have had that honor conferred upon you, deny to

you that homage and attention which, were wc

satisfied that your claim to the high post you have

assumed were undoubted, you would receive. I

have therefore to request that you, being suffered

to remain, rather than the Emperor's dignity, even

in the most indirect manner, by a justifiable misconception

be insulted, will not attempt to interrupt

our proceedings, whatever direction they may

take, either by speech or gesture."

I shall be governed by my sense of what is

due to the high post which the Emperor has been

pleased to confer upon me," replied Count Iceberg,

coldly.

The' president, without reply, turned from horn

and cast his eye upon Vanderneer, who uprose

and made an energetic speech, brief in its duration,

but so much to the purpose that he completely-carried

the feelings of all present, save the Count,

with him. Ho commented strongly upon tho arbitrary

exercise of an authority which, if even

acknowledged to be truly vested, had dragged a

man, innocent in all respects, from his home, and

kept horn banished thence ; he spoke still more

forcibly upon the infamous tyranny of attempting

to seize and imprison a delicate and tender female

who had done no wrong, and concluded in bitter

terms of the base infringement of the liberty of

tho subject which had taken place in the attack

upon his house ; he appealed to there, in powerful

language, not to part with the rights they had

so long and peacefully enjoyed, and to unite at

once, heart and hand, in defeating the attempt

which was being silently, but with the utmost

earnestness and perseverance, made to subjugate

the whole of Flanders ; he spoke of the wealth and

importance of their city, of its high position in the

eyes of the world, and he put it to their pride, their

sense of justice, and love of freedom, whether

they would, after having thrown off the yoke of

slavery when the city was limited in every sense

of the word to a fifth of its present size and power,

some six hundred years previous, now tamely

thrust forth their hands, their feet, and their necks,

and wear the shackles of bondsmen. He sat

down amid loud cheers, and then arose a succession

of speakers, all arguing ably on the same side

with a torrent of earnest eloquence. One and all

commended the resistance Vanderneer had displayed

to the commands of tho Count, and there

was no exception to the determination to uphold

the freedom which the city enjoyed against the

efforts of any power — even that to which they

owed allegiance ; and one enthusiastic member of

the council, in the warmth of his feelings, proposed,

that Michael Flors should, by the council,

be invited to return to Antwerp, to shew their

sense of the injustice displayed to horn, and that

if be would consent they would guarantee that

all Antwerp should protect him. The proposition

was received with acclamations, and carried

unanimously with a burst of feeling which made

the Count rest uneasily in his seat ; he was eaten

up with chagrin and mortification, but still kept

his position, albeit most of the burgomasters in

alluding to horn had not been choice in uttering

their opinion of him. It was ultimately resolved,

that the council viewed the proceedings against

Michael Flors and his daughter, and Vanderneer

also, as arbitrary and unjust, and upheld them in

the resistance they had made ; promising with

their best ability to protect them from any fu'iiiv

outrage of a like description. They wished Ij

mark their sense of the Count's conduct by a public

reprehension, and concluded by resolving

that the whole proceedings be at once made public

in the widest manner possible. As they arrived

at this stage of the proceedings the Count rose,

and, in a torrent of words, inveighed against tho

resolutions with excessive bitterness. Ile promised

them that the Emperor should not fail to have a

minute account of the indignity with which they

had treated his representative, and of the treasonable

character of their discussion, and then proceeded

to make formal complaint. The president,

however, stopped horn short.

"Wc have already decided," he said sternly,

that your acts have been unjustly tyrannous ;

wc cannot, therefore, entertain a complaint from

you, that you have not been suffered to carry out

those acts."

You and your honorable council shall remember

your proceedings this day with repentance."

said Count Idenberg, with sneering malignity;

your city, with its boasted wealth and importance,

shall yet seel the weight of an Emperor's revenge

for an insult, and, when writhing under the punishment

he will not hesitate to its fullest extent to

inflict, you will, in bitterness of heart, regret your

folly when it is unavailing. Beware of the wrath

in store for you — there is yet time by an instant

submission and undoubted proofs of loyalty, for

you to avoid it ; but persist in your present insolent

madness, and your fate is inevitable."

You may have to learn the power of those you

threaten, Count Idenberg;" said the president;

with a stern brow, and then rising with dignity,

he exclaimed —

'• The council is dissolved."

Every member prepared at once to leave the

chamber, the Count not being the most dilatory.

A strong troop of horse were waiting his return,

and, mounting his steed, he took his place in the

midst of there, and, raging with mortification and

desire for revenge, he galloped away. The burgomasters

hastened among their friends to communicate

all that had transpired at the council,

and notices were immediately after posted over

the city, to the great gratification of the inhabitants,

who with avidity and satisfaction read the

conclusions to which the council had come, and

every roan, applauding their sentiments, resolved,

heart and soul, to lend a helping hand to make

Antwerp a safe asylum for Michael Flors whenever

he should return to it.

The point now to be obtained was to ascertain

the spot where the painter concealed himself: no

one in the city had the most remote guess — Vanderneer

alone had been informed by Quintain ,

where he was sheltered, but could not, with

every effort of memory, remember the place. He

knew that he had been told — he recollected the

moment when he had received the information,

bnt the information itself was a dead letter to him.

The joy with which Agnes heard this determination

was damped by the rejoinder, that no one

but Quintain Matsys knew his locality. And

where was Quintain ? Borne away by enemies,

and, most probably, crc this, slain. That thought

made her weep, and the honest burgomaster rage

like a tiger ; he quarrelled with himself that he

had not made the seizure of his young friend an

important feature in his communication to the

council, and he rated everybody that they had

not discovered whither he had been taken, and

by whom. He offered a heavy sum to any one

who would track horn and find out where he was

confined, and he also offered a handsome reward

to any one, knowing Michael Flors' locality, that

would inform horn be might return in safety to

Antwerp. He was in a state of retaliation

which almost drove horn wild : he had effected

a good which a defective memory rendered null,

and with the opportunity of obtaining for Quintain

the universal praise of the citizens, he was prevented

accomplishing this wish by his compulsory

absence, and, as it seemed at present, without a

prospect of discovering him. He was much attached

to our hero ; there was a manly bravery

which went to his heart — there was a modesty,

and yet a suavity of manners, which pleased horn

and there was an earnestness in his thoughts

and bearing which completed the conquest. It

was not a little he would have sacrificed to have

that moment had horn at his side, and, with an

indifference to fatigue which spoke more strongly

of his attachment than aught else, he paraded

every part of the city with the hope of finding

some one of the Predecessors who had been more

successful than his comrades ; but the night came

and found horn seeking his home, tired and dis-spirited,

without having accomplished his object.

As he passed on, he could not but observe that

men were collected in groups, conversing with an

air of thoughtful mystery ; he could not but perceive

that there was a feeling of devotion, almost

of reverence, in their manner of saluting hir n;

and more than once he heard the exclamation,

God bless horn who stands up, band and heart,

for the liberty of his fellow-citizens." A glance

shewed horn that knives glittered in nearly every

belt, and that scarce a hand was without a weapon ;

a look at the houses shewed horn that the lower

parts were being barricaded and ready for any

outward attack, and a conviction fixed itself upon

his heart that the struggle, long expected, was

fast approaching. He heard flying rumors that

several smaller towns and villages had already

penetrated the hollow pretences the nobles had

employed in filling their small localities with troops,

and, after sharp actions, had cleared their districts

of there at the point of the sword. Report also

added, that masses of troops were approaching

Antwerp in all directions, and that shortly, vessels

of war would be seen on the Scheldt, in order to

completely surround the inhabitants and compel

them to an obedience which they would scorn,

unless to a power infinitely superior to their own,

to yield. With something of a heavy heart, and

a deep thoughtfulness at the great responsibilities

and even then he took the precaution to pursue

only the bye-ways, fearing that he might be discovered

and dragged away, despite both his own

and Franks efforts crc he had again the pleasure

of beholding his beloved Agnes. He approached

his home with emotions of hope, joy, and fear,

desiring anxiously, yet dreading, the intelligence

he should receive upon his arrival. It had been

agreed from motives of prudence, that Frank

Merritt should advance first to the house, and ascertain

whether it were safe for Quintain to enter ;

and to learn also a se w of the incidents transpiring

during his absence, that he might be better prepared

for what he had to hear from others. They

alighted from their steeds at a short distance from

Quintain's abode, and left them in the care of a

host who knew nothing, it appeared, of anything

happening beyond his doors; and then Frank,

followed at a short distance by Quintain, approached

the letters door. A gentle knock

brought in reply Blanche : she bore a taper in

her hand, and, as she elevated it to gaze upon the

new corner, Frank perceived that she was both

paler and thinner than when he last had seen her.

A change passed over his features as he observed

it, but in an instant his face was calm and passionless.

Blanche started when her eyes met his ;

she immediately recognised horn, and it as quickly

flashed through her mid that he had declared

himself, the last time she had seen horn, Quintain's

truest friend ; she therefore associated tidings of

Quintain with his appearance. A smile broke over

her features and she held forth her hand with a

kind air of welcome. Frank was not slow to take

it and raise it to his lips.

You have brought me news of Quintain ?" she

exclaimed, eagerly.

I have," he replied.

He is alive and is well ?" she cried.

Both," he rejoined, readily.

Where is he ?" she asked.

He would be here," he rejoined, " but that,

acting by my advice, he does not too rashly trust

himself within reach of every officious knave who

looks upon his late acts as so many sins to society,

which no consideration should suffer to go unpunished."



Heaven be praised ! he ha 3 at least escaped

the merciless hands of those who seized and carried

horn hence," she exclaimed. " Thou dost

know where he is — it is to thee he owes his escape?"

she added, interrogatively.

Something to me, and much to his own courage

and ingenuity," answered Frank; "but let

horn be his own chronicler — it will please thee

better to bear it from his lips than mine." He

then said hastily, "he is not far from hence ; if it

would not be indiscreet for horn to approach his

abode, a sow minutes will suffice to place horn before

thee."

Oh ! it would be safe for horn to walk hither

in the broad sunlight, for he has many friends

who have not slumbered in their search for horn

and who still hover round this neighborhood to

render his return safe, as well as to clear any-lurking

place of ihosc who are desirous of doing

horn injury," she replied. " An' thou wilt bring

horn hither I will wait thy coming, and then will

shew thee willingly the courtesy, of which anxiety

on my brothers account has made me as

yet neglectful. You will pardon me that I have

not bid thee cross the threshold, but I am too

desirous to see my brother to be punctilious with

a friend.

She laid a stress upon the last word : Frank

faintly smiled and answered, in a gallant tone —

Discourtesy from you would be something

strange, fair Blanche," then, growing graver, said,

"lir.tthis is not a time to bandy compliments,

nor are you in a situation to receive them ; wait

in this entry but a sew minutes, and thy brother

shall be with thee."

"If thou dost bring horn to me, then shall I

esteem thee the true friend thou hast declared

thyself to be," said Blanche animatedly.

What I have promised will I perform," he

exclaimed, earnestly ; " thy esteem is a guerdon

would make me dare more than I have ever

achieved — it should be purchased at no mean

price, and, maiden, if it he in the power of man to

gain it, it shall be mine."

He strode from the spot as he spoke, and was,

in the darkness, soon lost to sight. She followed

horn with her eyes, with an air of surprise, until

he was no longer visible, and then retired into

the entry, awaiting his return with her brother.

A few strange thoughts passed through her mid,

accompanied by some sad foreboding of evil, but

she chased them away, and the sound of hurried

footsteps aroused her from her reverie. She

made the door fly open, and darted forth to catch

Quintain in her arms — a passionate embrace and a

few brief words sufficed to satisfy Blanche of her

brothers safe return, and the means by which it

was effected ; tears of gratitude sprung to her

eyes. She turned to Frank and held forth her

hand, which he seized and pressed fervently.

Thou hast, indeed, proved thyself a friend,"

she said, warmly ; " thou hast kept thy word nobly.

I pray thee pardon me that I had evil

thoughts of thee when first thou didst seek my

brother."

Nay, thou hast not need to ask for that — I

have yet to earn thy esteem," he replied, with

"" " ,■ I . .- ■■— ■■■■— ,,,,„, —I |.| -, i ,n ,— ,■■ , , . —.— —■ MM, *** — . —^■^MWa— »— II ■ I |

enthusiasm. Then turning to Quintain, he added,

thought once more safely at thine home : I have

to perform a task not easy, even to me, crc ray

couch receives mc. I roust bid thee farewell, butin

the morn thou shalt see mc."

Where?" asked Quintain, finding that he paused.

Wherever thou mayst be when I am at liberty

to join thee," he returned, with a smile ; " thy

movements will be known to me wherever thy

inclination or thy duty may prompt thee to be,

and there will I rejoin thee. Farewell.

He quitted the spot as he spoke, and Quintain,

unprepared for such an abrupt departure, gazed

after horn with surprise.

He is a strange being," observed Blanche ina

low voice, with an earnest gaze at her brother.

"He is, indeed," he replied. " Where is dear

mother ?" he enquired, hastily changing the subject



'• She is above, with Caspar Hauser;" she

returned.

Ha ! gallant Caspar — and how is he ?" he

enquired hastily.

He is better," she returned ; " his wounds are

beginning to heal already."

I am glad to hear it," he said, and with a

light step he sprung up the stairs, followed by his

sister.

Frank Merritt in the meanwhile pursued his

way, as though under any exertion fatigue was a

stranger to horn ; he did not pause in his progress

until he reached the hostel called " The Drinking

Boors," which was the scene of some adventures

in the early part of this history. He met the

landlord as he entered. The man started as he

met his gaze, and shrunk back as though he had

suddenly encountered a serpent ; he would have

hastily retired, but Frank stayed horn with a

forcible hand.

Hold," he cried, in a stern voice. " Thou

knowest me and my power — if thou dost answer

me falsely, or breathe a word to living soul that

thou hast seen me, thy life shall not be of half an

hour's duration. Dost thou hear?"

I do," answered the man, with a trembling

voice.

It is well," returned Frank — " thou hast not

to learn my promptitude to punish where I have

promised it, and it is deserved ; bear it in mid

while thou dost answer me. — Where is Count

Idenberg ?"

At the castle of Count Luischen," replied the

roan, quickly.

What apartments are appropriated to horn ?"

"The suite in the western wing."

What pass-word will gain access to horn ?"

I — l do not know — I have not been entrusted

with any," exclaimed the landlord, with an air of

confusion. Frank gazed with a glittering eye

upon him.

Tell me that again," he said sternly, " and

think before you speak."

There is a pass-word I believe his people

use," stammered the man, " but it was not entrusted

to me — I heard it by chance."

Repeat it to me," said Frank.

The right of the nobles," returned the host

with a groan, as though he had, for the safety of

his life, parted with the value of a life.

Now tell me for what purpose the pass-word

was placed in your keeping," said Frank, darting

at horn a keen glance.

I told you," said the host, with exceeding embarrassment,

" that I heard it by change — it was

not entrusted to mc."

I know those with whom you have to deal

better," he returned, in a severe tone ; " seek not

to prevaricate, for an' thou dost, I'll deal with

thee on the instant as though thou hadst played

me falsely. Speak, and that quickly, man, or, by

ray haldane ! thou shalt not have the breath

left thee to speak at all crc thought many minutes

older."

The man paused for a minute with the intention

of coining a lie, but an impatient gesture on

the part of Frank frightened the truth out of horn,

and he said hastily —

The imperial troops at midnight, or past that

hour, are to take possession of every important

position in the city ; and, at day-break, it is to be

declared under the immediate and sole control of

the Emperor, subject to such tributes as he may

graciously please to exact, and to whatever rule

and restrictions he may see fit to impose. When

every part is occupied, I am to carry horn the information."



"It is enough," replied Frank, speaking with

emphasis. " Now mark mc. If thou dost speak

of our meeting, or cross this threshold to-night

for the purpose of seeking Count Idenberg, nothing

shall save thee from a rope and a short

shrift."

A footstep at that moment approaching, he

glided swiftly away, leaving the host in a state of

mid indescribable. He made direct for the castle

of the Count Luischen : on his way thither

he paused at a lonely part of the city, and, blowing

a blast upon a small horn which he wore similar

in size and tone to the one given by the scope, to

Quintain, he was instantly joined by two chopped.

He did not address them, but, merely motioning

them to follow horn, he hastened on, and

quickly reached the castle. The pass-word gained

horn a ready admission, and, attended by his two

followers, he directed his steps to the apartment

which contained the object of his search, leaving

his companions in a recess which divided the antechamber

from the sitting-room. He affixed a

mask to his face, and then, with noiseless step,

glided into the room. The Count Idenberg was

there : he was seated at a table — a jug of wine and

a goblet were before him. He had partaken freely

of the wine, it was apparent, by his flushed face

and red inflamed eyes. He had some papers before

horn which he appeared perusing attentively,

but bis uneasy rocking in his chair, and heavy

eyelids, rendered it a matter of doubt whether he

understood what he was reading. He did not

perceive Frank Merritt enter, and it was not until

the latter spoke that he was conscious he was not

alone : the tone of Franks voice, as he uttered

his name, made horn spring to his feet and, as his

eyes encountered the form of his unexpected

guest, start back with a sort of instinctive horror.

He half drew bis sword, and then let it fall back

into its scabbard, as Frank, slowly raising his hand

towards horn, exclaimed —

Count Idenberg, surrender thyself at once

prisoner to the Holy Fehm-gerichte ; in the name

of that sacred and dread tribunal, I command thee

to follow me, to appear before them."

When ?" asked the Count, wonder still reigning

paramount.

Even now," returned Frank.

Where is the tribunal sitting ?" enquired the

Count, an air of anxiety stealing over his features.

That you will know anon," replied Frank.

"Upon what charge am I summoned?" he

asked in a voice rendered unsteady by forebodings

which drove the blood with violence back to his

heart.

When thou dost appear before the Tribunal,

thy accuser and the accusation will be made

known," said Frank.

What if I will not accompany thee ?" he exclaimed.



." Hast thou to learn the penalty for disobeying

the commands of the Holy Tribunal," enquired

Frank, in an emphatic tone. The Count shuddered

; it was but for a moment ; he threw it off,

and, advancing a few steps nearer to his mysterious

visitor, he exclaimed —

"Who art thou?"

That which I seem," returned Frank.

I know thy voice, and should know thy stature,"

observed the Count, eyeing horn eagerly ;

"unless my senses deceive me thought Frank

Merritt."

"It concerns thee little who I am — it is enough

for thee that in the name of the Holy Fehm-

gerichte, I command thee to follow me :" replied

Frank.

It is enough for me that thought he I named

and by base and villanous artifice would seek

to get me in thy power. Insolent dog 1 I'll have

thee hurled from the highest turret to the moat on

the instant. What ho ! there, who waits !"

"My people," quietly returned Frank ; "resistance

or disturbance are in vain — thou hadst

best come peaceably, for be assured that, shouldst

thou not, I have means at hand to compel thee,

and that in a fashion which may make thee repent

thy resistance."

The Count gave a contemptuous growl of scorn

and defiance, and, at the top of his voice, shouted

for assistance. The two chopped, at a sign from

Frank, in an instant advanced from their concealment,

seized, bound, gagged, and hurried horn

from the chamber ; a mantle was thrown over

horn, upon which was embroidered, in large characters,

the symbol of the society. The two chopped

and Frank also wore cloaks, upon the back

and front of which the symbol was worked, and

on passing the sentries, this awful sign seen, no

question was asked — the men turned shudderingly

away, and they passed on unmolested. When

they were without the castle gates, Frank led the

way to an unfrequented spot where a man stood in

charge of three steeds. He approached horn with

a signal and said-~-Z—

Lübeck, thou hast well performed thy duty ;

here is thy prisoner — thou hast my directions respecting

horn, see them executed — lose no time, I

shall see you at the place appointed."

Lübeck gave a brief assent, the Count was

placed on the back of a steed, and was, at a brisk

gallop, borne from the spot, attended by the three

chopped, while Frank directed his steps to another

part of the city.

CHAP. XXII.

The return of Quintain Matsys gladdened his

mother's heart, which had been by his absence

reduced to the depths of sadness, and Caspar

Hauser, at the very sight of horn, declared himself

quite recovered. Quintain checked his excitement,

telling horn to keep himself quiet and he

would soon be well.

Well," echoed Caspar, "is not it enough to

make one well to have such a nurse?" and he

looked fondly at Blanche, "and to see you return?"

he added. "I am well enough, but lam not

quite strong enough ; but I soon shall be, depend

on it."

Quintain smiled, and said 'he hoped so ;' and

then detailed his capture and escape, and then,

much fatigued, retired to rest. By the dawn of

day he arose, and hastened to Vanderneer's residence

; he was anxious to acquaint the worthy

burgomaster with his return, and not the burgomaster

alone — there was another whom at least

he hoped would regret his absence, and be pleased

at his return ; it was doubtless more to set her

mid at rest respecting horn, than the honest

Vanderneer's, that made horn so anxious to greet

her with the daylight, but though he reached

there unusually early, he sound every one stirring;

indeed, he could scarce credit the hour was so

early, when, even in the city itself, be found so

many moving. As he found his way up the stairs

of Vanderneer's house, he encountered the burgomaster,

who no sooner beheld horn then he opened

his eyes and mouth, and stared as though he beheld

a spectre.

Have you forgotten roe?" said Quintain, with

a smile.

Forgotten you I" cried Vanderneer, recovering

his breath, " no ! but I am not certain lam

not asleep and dreaming — this is too pleasant to

be real. Where did you spring from ? When

did you get back ? Who carried you off? How

did you escape ? Come up stairs — I'll find you

plenty as glad to see you as myself — come along."

He seized horn by the hand and nearly wrung

it off, and then, catching hold of his wrist, he hurried

horn into one of the suite of apartments which

he had, as it were, circumvallation, and there he

beheld, seated, dressed as though it were the middle

of the day, Agnes Flors, Adeline, and her

mother. Both the young ladies gave a slight

scream of surprise at seeing horn, and both rose at

the same instant to greet horn ; but each perceiving

the other's movement,misconstrued it, checked

herself instantly, and sat down, leaving Quintain,

who had hurried forward, without the welcome

which a moment previous he saw every indication

of being heartily bestowed upon him. He drew

back, hurt and mortified, and looked at the

burgomaster for an explanation. The worthy

man was himself as much surprised, and

turned his eyes upon the three with an expression

of mute wonder. At length he exclaimed —

Why, girls, have I brought thee a pestilence?

have I brought the a knave, a rogue, a rascal,

a Von Haalst, an Idenberg ? Out upon ye —

where are your tongues ? Hast thou both forgotten

Quintain Matsys ? — hast thou both forgotten

ye are indebted for your lives to horn ? — is it thus

ye greet horn?"

Both the maidens instantly rose again, and with

outstretched hands welcomed horn ; but both were

constrained in their manner and speech, and Quin-tin,

whose enthusiasm the first check had cooled

down to below zero, was no less constrained than

themselves; the meeting, therefore, instead of being

one of pleasure and granulation on both sides,

was one of cold reserve and embarrassments.

Vanderneer's warm heart rebelled fiercely at conduct

he could not understand, and was about to

launch forth a few strong observations, when he

was checked by Quintain's enquiring the cause of,

not only the burgomaster's family, but all the city

being astir at that early hour. Vanderneer in reply,

lost no time in communicating the events

which had taken place during his absence, and

the preparations making rapidly in every part

of the city to finally and successfully resist its intended

subjugation. Vanderneer also mentioned

the resolution of the assembly respecting Michael

Flors and his own unfortunate defection of memory

which had prevented horn recollecting his place of

concealment : uponQuintin repeating it, tho burgomaster

wondered how he could have forgotten a

place he knew so well, and proposed at once to

send an escort to bring the painter to Antwerp.

The proposition, however, our hero over-ruled, because,

as he stated, Michael Flors was safe while

he remained sheltered within the convent walls,

but if he quitted them for .Antwerp while the

struggle between the people and the nobles was

taking place, it was impossible to ensure his safety-remaining

uiieoii.prouuM.-d, the more especially,

as every road leading to Antwerp was crowded

with troops approaching the city, and then in his

turn he related what he had witnessed as he returned

to Antwerp. The intelligence ratherstartled

the burgomaster, and on the instant he bade our

hero take a hasty leave of those present, and drew

horn away to the residence of the president, whom

they found attired and surrounded by burgomasters

and armed men. Vanderneer was received

instantly with marked courtesy, and the president,

a man of remarkable energy, proceeded at once to

give such instructions as were calculated, at least,

to meet the evils threatened with some chance of

successful opposition. Spies had been sent to

watch the movements of the troops, and confidential

persons mixed among the citizens of every

class, inciting them to protect their rights and

liberties to the last. Horsemen might have been

seen galloping to and fro — persons of all descriptions

hurrying backwards and forwards — shops

and warehouses containing wealthy merchandize

were kept fast closed and barricaded — knots of

men were standing here and there in deep and

grave consultation ; all business save that which

PRANK MERRITT Citing THE

COUNT lOENBERG.

was about to be enacted, was suspended. The

city gates were closed, and a number of vessels

were placed in commanding positions on the

Scheldt, to prevent approach in that direction ; all

the parts of the city not actually occupied by the

troops, and which were likely to bo of importance,

were taken possession of, and rendered as strong

as time and material would permit — in short, as

no moral doubt existed respecting the intention

to divest the city of the immunities and privileges

it had so long enjoyed, nothing was left undone

which could render that intention impracticable.

The day, however, passed away without the Count

or the troopers making their appearance ; the only

incident occurring, worthy of note, was the appearance

of the Baron Hainault in the council,

which sat nearly the whole day, and, disclaiming

any participation in the proceedings which had

taken place at his castle by his brother during

his absence, declaring they were done without his

knowledge or consent, he discountenanced them,

and in strong terms expressed his opposition to

the part the nobles were taking in their endeavor

to compel the lower and. middle classes again to

a state of vassalage. His communication was

received with acclamations, and he was attended

on his return by the good wishes of the people ;

he was accompanied by his nephew Adolf, who

modestly, but firmly, seconded his uncle's sentiments

; and though the latter, in his address to

the burgomasters, had stated his intention of remaining

neutral, the young knight did not allude

to that point, and lest most of his hearers to make

a shrewd conjecture that he would not remain

idle when the hour of action arrived. When night

came, and no demonstration had been made, the

president, not deceived by a deceitful calm, completed

his arrangements, and was not surprised

on being informed at midnight that a party of

troopers were demanding admittance at the eastern

and western gates of the city, while the Count

Luischen, at the head of a large body of men,

was advancing towards the marketplace. Ie

troopers already in possession of ■ various parts of

the city were also busy in strengthening their position,

though they did it silently. A single blue

light fired from the hostel, "The Drinking Boors,"

had been sufficient to set the troopers at work,

and the citizens also ; every part of Antwerp was

in motion, though the movements of both parties

were made without noise or bustle. Quintain

Matsys' safety and return was made known early

in the day to the Predecessors, much to their gratification,

particularly that of the smiths, and at

in order from horn they gathered as the night set

in, and held themselves in readiness to follow whither

he should lead. Quintain placed his mother

aud sister in Vanderneer's house for security, and

Caspar Hauser, during a heavy sleep, the effects

of a potion administered to horn by the physician

for the purpose, was carried to his home, where he

could be well protected in case of an attack upon

the house by the soldiery, which protection could

not have been afforded horn at Quintain's residence.

Everything, in fact, which a well directed judgment

could suggest to strengthen and protect was

done ; when the signal, therefore, was given, it

sound few, whe were to take part in the coming

events, unprepared for their task.

The troopers who demanded entrance at the

city-gate, on, finding they were denied admittance,

commenced a fierce assault upon it, and, with the

aid of cannon, applied with abating vigor, they

were not long in forcing it : the gate was old,

and though placed for the purpose of keeping out

an enemy, yet, like all buildings of such character

and for such purposes, it was found, in the

time of need, utterly inefficient. The troopers,

having made good a breach, poured in with rapidity

; the defenders of the gate, to the amount

of a hundred, retired hastily before them, leaving

their path clear. They were followed by the

soldiers with shouts of derision and triumph, which

they appeared not to heed, until they reached a

narrow street, down which they hurried, but had

scarce advanced a third of its length when they

stopped short, and, actuated by one impulse, turned

and discharged their pieces. The fire was simultaneous,

and well directed — a large number of

the troopers fell, and the rest, astonished at this

unexpected movement, halted and prepared for a

sharp encounter; but in this they were deceived,

for the citizens waited not to reload, but again

retreated with some speed to the bottom of the

street, where five different streets met ; they then

separated into twenties, and each party hastened

down a different street. The troops divided, following

each division in hot pursuit, thus dividing

strength, and discovering, by the time they

had nearly reached the bottom, that they had been

led into ambush ; for gradually each twenty increased

its number until it grew to above a hundred,

and, as the accumulation went ou, the retreat

became slower, until they made a stand. Then

the troopers made a fierce charge, expecting to

sweep all before them ; but the citizens stood the

assault bravely, evidently with the intention of

contesting every inch of ground. The conflict in

this street barely commenced, crc a large number

of youths poured from different parts of the street,

above where the troopers were fighting, and attacked

them with almost irresistible fury in the

rear : placed thus, between two fires, they grew

j confused ; they were opposed, also, to a greater

number, and were circumscribed in their movements.

In their eagerness to follow the flying

foe, whom they fondly imagined they were driving

like frightened sheep before them, they had not

thought of securing the means of retreat ; they

were thus hemmed in without the chance of re-trading

— they must either fight to the death

or surrender. Notwithstanding their discipline,

which is justly considered so great an advantage,

they found the citizens so skilful in the use of

their weapons that it availed them little or nothing,

situated as they were ; the artisans knew how to

keep their ground, and to seize any point in their

favor, and make the best of it ; they knew that

they must beat the troops or become slaves, and,

disciplined or not, they were conscious they must

not give way unless to perform some stratagem

similar to that which they had just practised. The

belligerents fought desperately — the one party

to escape the dilemma into which they had fallen,

and the other to conquer and capture.

The firing was now heard to rise in various

parts of the city, shewing that the contest had

commenced in earnest; the loud blasts of

trumpets, and the clattering of horses feet down

the principal street, heralded the arrival of Count

Luischen with a large body of mounted troopers,

who were to have been led by the Count Idenberg,

but he was no where to be found, although a strict,

but hurried, search had, in every direction likely

to disclose horn, been made. The Count Luischen,

therefore, took upon himself tho onus of supplying

his place rather than the opportunity should

be lost, and, with lie possession of some skill,

and all the desire lo <r,! jugate the city, for that

he should have a share in the spoils and future

emoluments arising from its large trade, he led

on the troops, determined to consummate hi 3

wishes. As band after band became engaged,

and street after street the scene of fierce conflicts,

the uproar became tremendous : the incessant

discharges of fire arms, the ringing of the church

bells, the shouts of the combatants, mingled with

the cries and groans of the wounded, formed a

tumult as fearful and alarming as it was groat.

The struggle, between those troopers who had

been divided upon their entry into the city and

those who executed the stratagem, was fierce and

deadly while it lasted, and ended in the defeat of

the troopers; who, upon calling for quarter, had

it granted to there, but were at once deprived of

their aims and marched to large warehouses,

which had been appropriated for the purpose,

affording no means of escape, and there confined ;

while the successful combatants returned to find

fresh foes. It was found that the number without

the city walls far exceeded the calculation of

the citizens, and they poured in torrents through

the breach effected by the cannon of those who

were now incarcerated. But that which, under

certain circumstances, might have proved the

overthrow of the citizens, turned to their advantage

: most of these men were weary with a long

march, and the storming of the city having once

commenced, they hoped to make as short work

of it as possible. They erroneously concluded

the troops preceding them having gained an entrance,

and fought their way to the centre of the

city, little remained for there to do but spread

themselves over it, and proceed in the horrid

work of plunder and violation which follows the

entry of a victorious army into the defeated town

of an enemy. Regardless, therefore, of all order

or discipline, they straggled in all directions, to

make indiscriminate attacks upon houses and upon

the inhabitants ; but in this hope they were foiled

each house was rendered as secure, by bolts

and bars, as possible, and there were still bodies

of the citizens who poured a hot fire upon their

foes, either from upper windows or from the street

itself; and this they did with such determined

resolution, that they compelled the stragglers to

seek the main body, to prevent their being destroyed

or made prisoners. There were few

streets at the commencement of the fray which

were not the scene of slaughter, but as, in detail,

the citizens were decidedly the most successful,

the troopers gradually made their way to the spot

where the firing seemed heaviest, and where they

concluded the great bulk of the troops would be.

Peal after peal of cannon, with its tremendous

report, accompanied by the crashing of the muskets,

as they poured forth sheets of flame and

showers of bullets, directed their steps, and thither

they fought their way — for no other mode of progress

was left them — and soon they came up to

the scene of action, where Count Luischen, with

his troopers, was vainly endeavoring to conquer

the citizens arranged under the command of the

president. A barrier had been thrown across

the street, which the horses could not surmount ;

this was commanded by several pieces of cannon,

judiciously placed, and which, under the able

management of a body of the smiths, belched forth

shot and flame, doing dreadful execution among

the assailants. Count Luischen, who had come

unprovided with cannon, despatched messengers

to those in the rear, who had employed cannon to

batter in the city gates with, to bring them up, in

order to effect a breach in the barrier which prevented

horn attacking the citizens hand to hand,

and exposed horn to a fire which thinned his people

alarmingly fast. The guns in question had,

when the object was obtained, been left in the spot

where they were planted ; the troop who were despatched

to bring them up found them already in

the city, in the possession of a number of brawny

fellows, who wore dragging them to be applied to

the use of the citizens. A desperate attack ensued

for their recovery, which ended in the soldiers

being beaten back ; they returned for reinforcements,

while the artisans, obtaining the assistance

of more friends, hurried the cannon away where

they might be placed to serve the cause effectually.

Before they had got far a reinforcement of

troops arrived, and another and more tremendous

struggle ensued ; the troopers fell from their saddles

in numbers, from the fire ol the artisans, and

the street, in turn, was watered with their blood,

which they suffered to flow like water crc they

would yield their prize ; but the mounted troopers

possessed an advantage over them in their horses,

and in numbers— they rode as well as cut them

down, and though many of their comrades were

made to bite the dust, horse and all, still they contrived

to get possession of the cannon, and, with

the aid of their horses, to drag it quickly to the required

destination. They were followed by the

shots of their antagonists until they were once

more mixing with the troops, which, some thousands

strong, were endeavoring, in the face of a

terrific fire, to force the position of the citizens.

The arrival of the cannon was greeted as the first

step to victory by the besieging powers, and they

were instantly planted where they could most

quickly make an opening in the barrier, and this

was notlongin being effected ; but this very breach

was commanded completely by the cannon of the

assailed, which, immediately upon it being discovered

what was being attempted, were pointed so

as to meet the men who first rushed through the

gap. Frank Merritt, who was foremost in the

fray, counselled this manoeuvre and saw it was

well performed. He appeared among the burgomasters

when the action first commenced ; no one

but Quintain knew who he was, and, in the confusion

and natural anxiety of such a crisis, no one

questioned horn in any way. He shewed himself

to be well versed in the art of war, and his advice

struck those to whom it was given to be, not only

admirable for its judgment, but the natural result

of much experience. He was very cool and

collected, which could hardly be said of those by

whom he was surrounded, and gave his directions

to those who obeyed his word as a law with the

same equanimity, which he would have used in a

time of calm and peace. When the point to which

the cannon of Count Luischen were directed began

to yield, and mass after mass came tumbling down,

Frank disposed a portion of his guns so that they

should keep up an incessant fire upon those who

were anxiously waiting to pour through the gap,

while muskets, arquebusses, pistols, and crossbows

swept every other position. When the

breach was effected, the imperial troops, with a

loud shout, attempted its passage ; but such a

storm of shot poured upon them, that they recoiled

instinctively. A rush was again made, and

all fell who were within range of the balls, which,

like a shower of red hot hail, carrying death and

destruction with it, poured upon them. Still was

the attempt persevered in, until the breach was

half choked up with the dying and the dead. Then

an effort was made to enlarge the opening, which

was accomplished with better success, though it

was the work of time, and once more the troopers,

with courage and impetuosity, rushed through,

following each other so closely, and pressing forward

with such rapidity, that their object was

carried, and, face to face, they met a foe which

they learned too late were not to be despised.

The collision was tremendous : the citizens stood

firm — a formidable army of glittering pikes met

the dashing charge of the horsemen, and checked

them in their furious career. In vain they tried

to leap their horses over the sturdy fellows who

stood firm in opposition, but the horses were either

impaled or shot down, and the troopers slaughtered

while endeavoring to disengage themselves

from their steeds. The cannon, which at first

had committed such havoc, were silenced, because

friends as well as foes must have fallen beneath

their destructive fire ; but a terrific storm of bullets

poured from blazing muskets upon the enemy,

laying many low who were filled with thoughts

of slaughter and rapine. Count Luischen was

advised by several officers of the various troops

present, lo let the troopers dismount and cope

with their opponents hand to hand, averring that,

armed and disciplined as they were, they should

be able to force the position of the citizens with

greater certainty and less bloodshed than if they

remained mounted. The Count, who began to

look upon the contest with different eyes to those

with which he had regarded it at its commencement,

gladly availed himself of any advice which

had the object of furthering the end in contemplation,

and readily gave the command, which

was speedily executed — the troopers themselves

gladly getting rid of their steeds, which only rendered

them marks for the weapons of their foes,

and the ill-paved nature of the streets making

their sooting insecure, still further added to the

disadvantage under which they laboured. Count

Luischen, who bad only expected to be second in

command to his friend Count Idenberg, was perfectly

bewildered : he wanted not for courage , or for

some skill in tactics, butCountldenberg had made

all his plans for the subjection of Antwerp, and,

from motives of prudence, had not disclosed them,

determining to carry them out when the time arrived

for their execution. He was absent — where,

was to the Count Luischen inexplicable. It was

utterly impossible to devise reasons or motives for

his not being there to command, at the very moment

when his presence was really so highly important

; it embarrassed his colleague, even to

endangering the cause for which he was venturing

so much, and made horn regret that he had joined

it until he was well assured that there would be

no misunderstanding in the performance of the

arrangements decided upon. However, to retire

was now impossible, and all he had left to do, was

to make the best of his situation. In the occasional

lulls of the heavy firing between bis own

troops and those who were fighting for their

liberty, he heard firing in different parts of the

city, for which he could scarcely account. It told

horn the battle was raging in other parts as well as

in this, and conveyed to horn the suggestion, that,

should he succeed in defeating those before horn,

he might yet have others to conquer who would

cost horn as much carnage as all the others put

together. There was little time, however, left for

deliberation, and, accordingly, calling all his powers

of coolness and judgment into play, the Count

prepared to accomplish, by plans fitted to his

emergency, what his friend had purposed by long

and deeply-concerted schemes.

Under a very heavy fire the troopers leaped

from the backs of their horses, and, forming

hastily, dashed forward, under the command of

several old warriors, and attacked the citizens

with a furious, but, at the same time, steadily

supported, earnestness, which was scarcely to be

resisted. The " unwashed artificers " met them,

however, with the firmness of veterans : if they

swayed a little at the first onset, they regained

the ground by the vigor with which they returned

the blows levelled at them. Both sides still kept

up a most murderous fire, and the citizens, more

exposed to the bullets by the simplicity of their

habiliments, felt the raking sire to which they were

subjected more severely than their antagonists.

They did not, nevertheless, flinch ; the places of

the fallen were instantly supplied, and the battle

raged with uninterrupted fierceness. Men trampled

over their dying comrades upon the ground,

which was made slippery by the blood flowing

from the wounded and the dead in streams, and

with oaths and shouts, with cries of vengeance,

and vindictive feelings raging in their breasts,

tried their utmost to strew their gory path still

more thickly with their foes. The smoke from

the cannon and musketry enveloped them like a

thick mist, and the darkness of the night would

have prevented them almost from seeing each

other but from the bright flashes of the roaring

guns, as they blazed and belched forth their volumes

of flame and shot, scattering death in their

path. While-the battle was raging with its utmost

fury, Frank Merritt, who had stood in the foremost

ranks, and cheered and encouraged the citizens

on — who had conceived and directed the

well-timed and withering fire which had greeted

the troopers in their first attack on foot, and who

had fought like a destroying spirit, impenetrable

to sword or shot, retired from his place, after hurling

to the earth, brained, a tall and powerful antagonist,

and sought the president, who, with calm

but confident energy, was directing those immediately

beneath the range of his eye and voice how

to meet and counteract the various movements of

the troopers, quickly conceived, and as rapidly executed.

When he gained his side, he said, in a

low tone —

Wc must retreat."

"It is a base thought," exclaimed the president,

excitedly, ; "he is worthy of death who

imagines or utters it. lam resolved on my path

—victory or death, where I stand."

Still must wc retreat," said Frank, calmly,

and unperturbed in his manner. " I counsel to

ensure victory, not to yield basely. You might

know me better, by seeing what I have already

done. I have embarked in your cause, and I

stand or fall by it ; but credit me, lam somewhat

experienced in skirmishes, or, if you will, storms,

more deadly even than this, and know that it is

easier to beat a body of troops, such as those now

assaulting us, in detail, than thus united. Wc

have given them too much room to manoeuvre in.

Although the people stand their ground right

manfully, yet they cannot endure for ever the terrific

charges which a well-practised discipline enables

the troopers to make, nor can they withstand

the sweeping fire which their opponents, from the

width of their position, are able so effectually to

pour in upon them. Let us circumscribe their

limits, and, by filling the houses in the neighborhood

with some of our most determined supporters,

a heavy fire may be poured upon the enemy,

which they cannot return. By slowly retreating,

wc shall lead them into the belief that wc are being

beaten : they will follow, perhaps, in disorder,

and then wc shall have them on the hip. Wc

must do this, or be beaten where wc stand. I see

their numbers are gradually increasing, while ours

are thinning; fresh troops, but now reaching

Antwerp, are pouring into the city to the aid of

their fellow-soldiers, while wc have all that wc

dare count upon. What say you? Decide quickly,

for wc must gain the victory shortly, or the independence

of Antwerp will be no more."

"Pardon my hasty speech," exclaimed the

president, as Frank Merritt concluded ; " I see

that you counsel wisely and shrewdly — I will fol-your

advice, and God lend his aid to us, to preserve

our rights aud liberties."

"Amen ! ejaculated Frank, with earnestness.

Right well do the people of your city deserve to

be free, for they have fought as gallantly and nobly

as the most chivalrous band that ever flashed

sword in desperate field."

Away with you," said the president, urgently,

"and convey to those near you the stratagem

which you wish executed. I will also see to

those around me ; and do thou make that young

smith near you, Quintain Matsys, who I have observed,

with his sturdy band, sighting like a devil,

thoroughly understand your meaning, or he will

stick to his place, and mar all, by not budging an

inch."

Why, he does fight like a devil, or a ' sans

peur sans reproche,' " said Frank, with a proud

smile of satisfaction, hastening towards the spot

where Quintain, with sword, voice, and gesture,

was keeping his ground, against every effort made

to force it.

He was surrounded — save in front, which was

to the foe — by the smiths and the Predecessors, and

sought, animated by his love for his native city

and for her who was the star of his destiny, with

an enthusiasm which gave vigor, energy, and even

courage, to those who were around him. Several

efforts bad been made to capture or bring horn

down, but those who crossed swords with horn were

made to feel his superiority with his weapon, and

balls, which flew around horn like hail, still left

horn untouched. The tones of his rich voice, ashe

shouted to those around horn to support their

rights, their homes, their friends, were heard, and

echoed by the hearts of all ; and his friends, animated

by his example, sought with a fury which

ought to have ensured the victory. Frank Merritt

strode to his side and mixed in the desperate fray;

while in the midst of his struggle with a sturdy

foe, he contrived to convey to our hero the movement

necessary, and then, having despatched his

enemy, he retired once more to the post he bad at

first held, greeted gladly by those who fought beneath

his eye and animating influence. Soon it

began gradually to appear that the whole mass of

Antwerpians were falling back, and this, though

done in order, was executed a little hastily. A

cry instantly arose among the troopers, "they

fly, they fly," and fresh exertions were made to

dash in among them and throw them into the

wildest confusion; but they still preserved the

same stern, unbroken front in the retreat, which

ney had preserved when maintaining their ground,

nd though the most desperate efforts were used by

he Troopers, they made little or no impression upon

lie citizens. The plan proposed by Frank was

quietly but fully carried into effect — numbers

gained admission into houses on both sides of the

tree in their path, the doors of which they saw

.sell secured, and posted themselves in the wjri-

vows to pour down a deadly discharge upon the

oe, who followed eagerly their retreating companions.

Onward the troopers hurried, and soon

he effects of the shots which poured upon them

rom the houses told fearfully ; but they hoped

shortly to be beyond the range of the shot, aud

dressed on their advancing comrades, until, like

he celebrated phalanx of Philip of Macedon, they

were urged forward with such impetuosity, it was

i matter of doubt whether, if the citizens had made

i stand at this moment, they would not have been

absolutely borne down by the overwhelming mass

allowing them. They were, however, dreadfully

;called by the heavy fire which those from the yvih-

lows above kept up unremittingly, and several

mies an ineffectual effort was made to return it;

mt the impetus given to the "whole body prevented!

t, and the shots rattled on helm and breast-plate,

ike a shower of hail. Some attempts were made

o break open the doors of the houses, but they sailed

rom the same cause — the soldiers were swept on

without pause, some half crushed, others stumbling

ever the wounded, and themselves trampled to

each for their false step. * Shouts, oaths, execrations,

groans, and cries, mingled with the sharp

discharges of musketry,' which still, from both

ladies, kept up its sweeping, destructive death-work,

filled the air with its horrid clamor, and kept

hose inhabitants of the city who, from' various

causes, were closely shut up in their houses, in a

tate of terror most agonising. ' How many senates

were sending lip prayers' for the safely of a

other, a brother, a lover, whom threshold never

>cc again alive. Hoi many were trembling,

shuddering at the fate awaiting them, ' should

tyranny succeed; and how fearfully beat many a

heart when it was perceived the citizen's were repeating,

closely followed by the troops. How

many cases of heroism were there among women

vho could lend aid of any description to those

heeding their services. It was a dreadful time

or those who had so much at stake, and many

in aching heart was in the bosom of those who,

with anxiety and alarm, listened to the frightful

uproar without. ' . ' '

The citizens were fast approaching the marketplace,

in which stood "The Drinking Boors," and

it this critical moment intelligence was brought

hat the place was already occupied by a large

body of men in the pay of the Count Idenberg.

A small number of citizens had attacked them,

but were obliged to retire, because of the superiority

of numbers. What was now to be done in

this emergency, was a question which the president

asked himself with some alarm ; placed between

two sires, defeat seemed inevitable. Frank

Merritt, who hitherto had so ably counselled, was

appealed to — his advice was prompt and energetic.

Wc must make a stand here," he said quickly.

"I Will dispatch Quintain Matsys with a body of

the Predecessors to attack the ruffians in the pay of

Idenberg; he will easily defeat them. I know

the men — they wilmot stand against a resolute

attack, and then let. him burn down the inn there;

it is. the nest of villains— we know not whom or

what may come from thence, if wc suffer it to remain

unmolested. Say, shall it be so ?"'

Even so," returned the president, and then

cried, in a loud voice, ", lii the name of God ! and

Antwerp ! citizens ! stand fast ! ' Hold your

own ! for honor, faith, for the rigbts'of citizen's,

stand firm ! Think of your wives, your daughters,

your babes, your homes, and give not an inch:

Stand to your arms — meet them, brothers, as a

wall!" / ; , ,t .-: - ., . • ■;

The cry was taken up and repeated by ninny

others. • Frank Menitt,; too, added, inspiriting

words, and counselled all the citizens to load fast,

to reserve their fire until tj.e mass closed in upon

them, and then giye.it them with withering accuracy.

In the mean time, a few hasty words to

Quintain, naade. him obey the directions given to

horn ; his friends, ever ready to follow where heled,

disengaged themselves from the host of their

friends, and hastened after horn, willing for an y

deeds, however desperate. -, They had scarcely departed

when the troopers once again came in contact

with the citizens: they rushed on with tremendous

force, and the collision was terrific. Their impetus

"was checked by the hot, devastating fire which, at

a signal from Frank, an immense number of the

citizens met' them with. As' the broad sheet of

flame, hot and blinding, blazed from the muskets,

hundreds fell; but still those behind, urged on'by

others, rushed oh, and in deadly combat sought'lo

gain the object of their leader. '■

Quintain, as he reached the bottom of the' street,

heard the stunning report of the simultaneous

discharge of the muskets of his own party — he

heard the shouts and groans attending it, the rattling

fire in reply also burst upon his ear, and, ashe

knew the real fortune of the fight depended upon

those be had just quitted, he was anxious to perform

the task assigned horn, and return to lend his

aid in obtaining the victory ; he therefore hurried

on, communicating his wishes to his followers, and

reached the marketplace, where stood a cross, or

I

BATTLE BETWEEN THE CITIZENS AND TROOPERS.

Rather, fountain. This he saw surrounded,

not by mere ruffians, but soldiers armed with

morions and breast plates, preparing to march up

the street along which he was advancing, to execute

the manoeuvre he was sent to prevent. Immediately

he perceived them he shouted to his followers

his war-cry, called on them to crush the

foe at once, and darted towards them with a spirit

and a speed bis friends could scarce keep pace

with. The troopers were so taken by surprise,

that Quintain and his party were upon them before

they could discharge a shut : the fight, therefore,

commenced with spears and swords, and began

with a vigor which promised a speedy termination,

unless both parties were gifted with a most extraordinary

power of endurance. Reinald, who

was the half brother of Heinrich, accompanied

Quintain, and was the first to commence the fray

with a tremendous hammer, which he swung

round his head as though it had been a simple

sling; he struck down a trooper — the roan's morion

split in pieces, and he fell, with a deep gash

in his forehead. Reinald lost his hammer with

the force of the blow, but before the trooper could

discharge a pistol, which he had drawn from his

belt for that purpose, he sprung upon horn and

buried his dagger in his throat ; then recovering

his formidable weapon, he renewed the attack upon

the foe nearest to him. Fast and furiously the

combatants sought ; the citizens drove back the

troopers step by step — they asked for no quarter,

aud they gave none ; trooper after trooper fell,

knocked down by huge sledge-hammers and bars

of iron, these weapons being more congenial to the

smiths than the lighter spear or the musket, which

required so much trouble to incessantly reload.

The Count Idenberg's retainers, after a short but

fierce struggle, proved themselves the men Frank

Merritt had predicted them to be ; the suddenness

of the attack, its impetuosity, the fearless

courage and enthusiasm with which it was sustained,

was too much for there to resist, and they

retreated with very unequivocal signs of disorder,

towards the inn of which Frank Merritt had advised

the destruction The first few who set the example

disliked the close fighting — it proved rather

too dangerous to be pleasant ; they preferred

fighting from a cover, and, as the inn had no lack

of windows, they made a hasty movement towards

it, that they might carry on the war with advantage

to themselves and destruction to their foes.

As, however, a very considerable number of their

body held the same opinion as themselves, and

did not like to be the last in an effort to get a good

place, they moved too, communicating a panic to

those who were unconscious of this reasoning,

which ended in a pell raell rush to the door. The

confusion became awful — Quintain and his followers

closed upon them — and the carnage was terrific ;

numbers threw down their arms, imploring for

mercy ; at length the door became somewhat

clear and an attempt was made to close it, but this

our hero and his comrades prevented. They

made a desperate rush ; the strength of the sturdy

smiths was too much for their opponents, and

they made good their entry. Then ensued a terrific

struggle — flight after flight of stairs were contested

with deadly animosity — every step was

slippery with blood. The bodies of both bands

were strewed thickly, but the contest was carried

on with unabated vigor ; the smiths gained fast

upon their antagonists — indeed, the fearful power

and impetuosity with which they fought were not

to be resisted, while the numbers who fell before

them were enough to awe the questionable courage

of those with whom they contended. When a

sufficient portion of the building had been won to

carry out the advice given, Quintain ordered it to

be set on fire in various parts, taking especial care

that all those outlets leading to the vaults beneath

were well fastened, so that none could

get down, and those who were down be compelled

to remain there. Soon the building was in a

blaze : Quintain and his band hastened without, and

stood ready to capture those who, finding their

stronghold, as they deemed it, thus in the course of

inevitable destruction, must perforce rush from it,

and render themselves prisoners to save the lives

they must else lose in the flames. As the blaze and

smoke mounted, the wood crackled and burnt briskly

and brightly : the troopers who had commenced

posting themselves at the upper windows to fire

upon the foe beneath, no sooner perceived their

alarming position, than, throwing away the muskets

they were about dealing death with, they

made a very hasty descent, and leaping affrighted

through the flames, delivered themselves prisoners

to those who were waiting so quietly to receive

them. In a very little time the house was quickly

cleared of its living tenants : the host was the

first who made his appearance, and was, by Quin-tin,

seized and recommended to the particular care

of a stout fellow, who frankly made the trembling

tapster acquainted with his intention of cutting

horn down the moment he anticipated any intention

of departing without leave. Quintain watched the

burning building with impatience, for he longed

to return to the scene of action which he had previously

quitted, where he knew every man was of

importance. He was spared waiting very long,

for a sudden and tremendous explosion took place

unexpectedly, shaking the ground where they stood

with its report, while the sheet of flame nearly

deprived them of eyesight ; another instant, and

huge fragments of wood, rafters, and beams, came

clattering about their ears, wounding many in

their descent severely, and hurting a large number.

Several other explosions followed in rapid

succession; showers of sparks flew up into the

air, springing from broad masses of hot flame,

which scorched, as well as almost blinded, those

around ; each explosion was like a tremendous

discharge of artillery, roaring and crashing with

violence resembling thunder, making the ground

tremble where they stood as though it were convulsed

by an earthquake. It was evident a very

large quantity of gunpowder must have been on

the premises, in readiness to supply the wants of

the troopers, but was thus disposed of without

proving of the service for which it was intended.

The explosions followed each other so swiftly, as

to bewilder, both by their magnitude and tremendous

uproar, all present, and prevent any attempt

to escape the falling fragments until the last crash

took place, and then a hasty retreat was made to

reach beyond the range of the burning masses

which fell, like a fiery shower, upon all indiscriminately.

A comparative silence followed the

terrific sound which had the moment previously

stunned the ears of the by-sanders, and a deep

gloom, almost darkness, followed the dazzling

brightness which the sheets of flame accompanying

each ignition of the gunpowder had shed

around. A minute sufficed for Quintain and his

followers to penetrate the darkness, and continue

the attack upon such of the Count's followers who

still united together for the purpose of resistance.

The disastrous destruction of the inn, which, incase

of defeat, was to have served as a cover for

the retreat of these troopers, and the loss of many

of their comrades, filled them with a dismay which

assisted greatly to defeat them ; they were driven

from every position, until many flung down their

arms and fled, to be hotly pursued, and the rest

called for quarter and tendered their submission.

Quintain gathered them together, saw that they

were all deprived of their arras, marched them

to a place of security, and, leaving a small party

to guard them, hurried at once back to the principal

scene of action, which he had, although to

render an important service, quilted with regret.

The roar of musketry, the dm of weapons, and

the sound of shouts and cries, told our hero that

the battle was still raging fiercely : he increased

his speed as he drew nearer, and was soon again

among his fellow-citizens who were busied in the

strife. He was speedily recognised, and an opening

was made for horn and the sturdy smiths accompanying

horn to pass on to the front, where

the contest was at its fiercest height. Their presence

was welcomed as a great addition — cheers

greeted them, and animated them to push forward

into the heat of the fray, to do justice to the favorable

feeling evinced towards them by their

neighbors. When the balance is equal, it requires

but a small thing thrown into the seale to turn it

in favor of one party; and thus, at a moment when

the victory was doubtful —when, with all the sturdy

courage, the unflinching bravery, the stern, deadly

resistance they displayed, appeared impossible for

the citizens to longer withstand the well-disciplined

troops in their incessant and terrific attacks, the

appearance of our hero and his band, small as it

was, turned the seale in favor of the opponents of

usurpation, tyranny, and slavery. The dense volumes

of smoke arising from the discharged firearm?

rendered it difficult' to see very far, but the

flashes from tho muskets and cannon, which still

continued their devastating work, gave sufficient

light for the troopers to perceive the citizens had

a reinforcement, though to what extent they were

unable to judge. They were not long, either, in

discovering that the fresh corners attacked them

with a vigor which, iv consequence of the work

they had already performed, they were unable to

resist ; they, therefore, gave ground before them.

With the glance of an eagle, Frank Merritt detected

this symptom of weakness, and, in a voice

which was heard clearly above the dm and tumult,

he called on the citizens to follow horn, for victory

was in their hands. A simultaneous rush echoed

his appeal — every man seemed to feel it was the

last effort, and a mighty one they made it. Quin-tin

kept near to Frank, echoed his war-cry, fought

as he sought, and, with clear, loud tones, called in

such terms to his own immediate followers, that

they fought as if possessed by a spirit compelling

them to bear down all before them. The struggle

was now dreadful; the combatants on loth

sides fell fast, but the fury with which the citizens

attacked their antagonists gave them but little

time to note this. The retreating steps taken by

tho troopers, in the first instance, they were unable

to recover ; the impetuosity which 

onslaught of the citizens, drove them still

further back, and Frank Merritt exerted himself

to the utmost to increase the pressure upon them.

No chance was given for there to stand their

ground — once made to move, they were compelled

to continue their retreat ; in fact, it appeared

as though it was the object of the citizens to cut

their way through their foe. Step by step

they beat them back, and, as the Antwerpians

kept gaining ground, a fresh animation seized

them — they shouted and called upon their patron

sant, they delivered their blows with double force

and rapidity, they plied their muskets, their crossbows

and spears, with new dexterity and swiftness;

every inch they gained they called up

fresh energy, and increased the speed of the

I troopers until a panic began to seize those in the

rear, who found their companions pressing upon

them, and compelling them also to give ground.

An effort was made, by those who were tho freshest,

to get in front, and their endeavors added to

the confusion : many, believing the victory to be

going against them, endeavored, while yet safe, to

make good their retreat — some few, detecting

this intention, strove to prevent them, thus assisting

the disorder. The citizens already stationed

in the windows, perceiving the troopers retiring,

renewed their exertions ; they poured their shot

upon them in showers, hurling, also, whatever

objects of weight which could deal death upon

them ; massive stones, tom hastily from the street

or from the copings and roof's of the houses — iron

bars — everything, in short, which could assist in

thinning their numbers, and throwing them into a

state of the wildest confusion. As the troopers

gradually retreated from the houses in which

these citizens were stationed, they descended and

joined their friends, adding to their number aud

confidence, and plunging with most desperate

courage into the conflict. Greater and greater

grew the panic among the troopers — each moment

increased their confusion ; those in front got

mixed in wild irregularity with those behind, and

pressed upon them heavily; some were retreating,

others advancing or attempting to advance, but in

vain — at every effort they were borne back by

their own party, and now swayed one side, now

another, wedged iv and incapable of acting, they

could only yield to the torrent and give way. The

panic increased until it became general ; many

broke into open flight, where such a movement

was practicable — others urged their comrades into

the same act, and all were by this time in full retreat.

In vain the Count Luischen essayed to

stern the torrent — in vain the officers and nobles

commanding the different troops attempted to

produce something like order in their men — in

vain did they send their reserve forward ; the men

could not get into action — they were borne back

with resistless impetuosity, mingled in the confused

mass, and hurried back almost swifter than

they advanced. Now rose the shouts of the citizens

louder and louder — now did the cry of victory

rise from all parts of their body — now might

the gallant Frank Merritt have been seen fighting

like a lion, cheering the people on with stentorian

voice,

And by his rare example, made the coward

Turn terror into sport : as waves before

A vessel under sail, so men obey'd,

And fell below his step n: his sword (death's stamp)

Where it did mark, it took; frotuface to foot —

He was a thing of blood, whose every motion

Was timed with dying cries."

He was closely followed by Quintain Matsys, the

president, the burgomaster Vanderneer, aud Paul

Breitstein, whose dauntless bravery and many

deeds of importance elicited praise and admiration

from Vanderneer and others. They were surrounded

by the inspirited citizens, who, finding

they had not sought in vain, rushed forward, regardless

of shot and sword, carrying all before

them. Once again they got back into the wide

space from whence they had retreated, but they

did not give the troopers time to recover themselves

; they continued the conflict with the same

spirit and perseverance as before, driving the foe

before them with such vigor that, as they compelled

them to quit position aster position, and

again hemmed them in the narrow streets, the

troopers, completely beaten, panic stricken, without

officers, who had got mixed with different

troops in the confusion, threw away everything

approaching order, and absolutely turned and

fled. The carnage now became frightful — the

pursuit was hot and vindictive, the start was short,

the citizens active, and they hung upon the heels

of the fugitives so closely, that they found there

was little safety in flight; submission or death

was the very — those refusing instant surrender

were cut down, while those trusting to the nimbleness

of their legs were brought down with bullets.

A rush was made to the western gate, which had

not been subjected to the same mode of entry as

the eastern ; for, when demanding entry there,

the troops heard the firing at the Utter ; they

immediately advanced thither and made their entrance

through the breach effected by their friends,

saving themselves the time, trouble and expenditure

of ammunition and life which otherwise it

would have cost. This western gate, therefore,

was still firm and fast ; it was not, however, known

to be so by either party. Frank Merritt discovering

the intent of the foe to retreat upon it, despatched

a party thither to intercept them, who,

taking a bye street, arrived there in time to attack

the first stragglers, and give battle to the others

as they arrived. Street by street the combat was

continued, with, if possible, more deadly animosity

than ever ; those who would not surrender fought

desperately for their lives ; the bodies of the dead

and dying strewed the streets in all directions ;

the path-way was wet and slippery with gore, but

this, rather than having the effect of checking the

slaughter, seemed only to inflame the combatants,

who viewed friend after friend fall, and fought on,

as much with the desperate hope of revenging their

death as any other. Although the troopers still

continued to fight, yet they did not once recover

the advantages they had lost, nor did there appear

to be any remote prospect of regaining their position,

nor of carrying the object with which they

had thus belligerent entered the city. At every

retreating stride their numbers thinned terribly by

slaughter or capture ; the deadly shower of shot

the citizens still kept pouring upon them, and

which they but feebly returned, induced them to

quicken their pace through the streets, but not to

give up the contest ; and it was not until they arrived

at the western gate, approached by a narrow

street, that, finding themselves hemmed in on all

sides, the work of destruction proceeding with

unmitigated severity, a trumpet proclaimed the

acknowledgment of their defeat and surrender.

They threw down their arms, and then, by

direction of Frank Merritt, they were marched in

single files from the spot, under the guns of the

citizens ; each file, consisting of a certain number,

completely unarmed, and every tenth man guarded

by armed citizens, were led away to strong holds,

where escape was impracticable. The Count Luischen

and several other nobles, with the surviving

officers of the different bodies of troops, were also

made prisoners, and removed to places of safety ;

and then cheers were given for victory which made

Antwerp echo its joyful sound, the bells of the

cathedral were set ringing, drums were beaten,

and the gratifying intelligence of this great and

important victory conveyed to those to whom it

would be most grateful. The congratulations,

which were fervid and enthusiastic, were made by

those deeply interested in the issue of this conflict

to each other, and among those most warmly

thanked for their services by the president, was

Frank Merritt. He informed horn, at the same

time, that he should take another more public opportunity

of recording his estimation, and that of the

citizens of Antwerp, for the services they had that

night rendered them. A slow but respectful inclination

of the head, and a melancholy smile, was

all the reply which Frank made, and turned away

to assist in removing the wounded. Quintain 

received, also, unqualified praises for his noble

exertions in behalf of his native city ; he received

them modestly, but escaped from them as soon ashe

could to follow Franks example, and to find

the honest burgomaster Vanderneer, of whom he

had lost sight, and who he knew would be in the

seventh heaven of delight at the victory; but though

he searched everywhere around, shouted his name,

and visited every spot where he was likely to meet

with horn, yet he failed in discovering him. The

smoke of the discharged cannon and muskets still

hung about the street in dense volumes, like a

heavy mist, and though numberless torches were

lighted and borne in the hands of those searching

for the wounded to separate them from the dead,

yet the gloom was so thick as almost to be impenetrable

by tho eye. Quintain, who began to be

possessed by the fear that the burgomaster had

fallen, increased his efforts to discover horn, and

enquired in all directions of those engaged in a

similar occupation, whether he had been recently

seen. He received universally a negative, which

added to his alarm. During his search he encountered

Paul Breitstein : the latter stopped

horn, and said —

"You are Quintain Matsys?"

"I am," he replied.

I am Paul Breitstein," said the other. Quin-tin

looked at horn with some little surprise, for he

might as well have said he was the Emperor of

China ; be knew horn not by person or name, and

stated so. Paul looked a little confused, and exclaimed

—

Why yes, to be sure — I had forgotten that ;

but I am a very old and particular friend of Ate —

of the burgomaster Vanderneer, and I have frequently

heard horn mention your name, and

therefore I should be glad to know you. Hem — I

fought near you — as wc approached the gate you

rid me of a trooper who was trying to help a comrade

of his to cut me down ; I should be glad to

thank you for that too."

I am proud to know you, Paul Breitstein,"

cried Quintain, warmly, " not only for the sake of

the good burgomaster, whom I honor and esteem,

but for thine own good deeds. By St. Luke I

but I did see thee, and often too, with a glow in

my breast, to find how true and staunch a friend

Antwerp had in thee. All have fought well aud

nobly this night, but thou hast achieved wonders.

There was one who thrice called to thee that thou

didst perform thy task right gallantly, and Frank

is not the man to give undeserved praise. I repeat

to thee, Paul Breitstein, I am glad to know

thee."

Thou canst scarcely credit the joy thou dost

give me to hear thee say so," returned Paul, in a

tone of enthusiasm ; " thy praise to me, Quintain

Matsys, is worth all the world — ah I thou knowest

not how valuable. Indeed, it is dear to my

heart — I would do more than I have done tonight

to gain it."

Thou hadst not need," said Quintain ; " The

praise of others, higher and worthier than myself,

will be liberally given thee, and truly is it earned

thou hast little occasion to set store by mine."

Yet is it of more value to me than that of

kings, and as such I prize it," exclaimed Paul

Breitstein, " for you are generous as well as brave,

and will not hesitate to record your opinion of

my humble acts to any one, be they who they

may, while there are those who would give me

kind words in private, and an indifferent voice to

others whose good opinion might be the summit

of my wishes."

The man's praise is of as little value as his

blame who could do thus," responded Quintain,

ignorant of the real purport of Paul's speech ; " I

shall be but too happy at all times, and to all persons,

to say that Antwerp, among all her sons,

had not a truer and braver defender than one

Paul Breitstein — but of this anon. Have you

seen of late our good friend the burgomaster?"

No, I have not," returned Paul ; " the last I

saw of horn he was fighting like a lion, but I got

separated from horn by a mass, and until victory

declared for us I was too much occupied to observe

him."

That I believe : the troopers, to do them justice,

left us little time to look about," said Quin-tin.

" I was placed in the same situation as yourself

— I lost sight of horn, and have not since been

able to find horn, or any one who has seen him. I

am now in search of horn, with a horrid fear upon

me that he has fallen. Will you assist me in

searching for horn?"

• With all my heart," observed Paul; in

truth, I was making my way to the president, expecting

to find horn with him. Suppose wc hasten

to the spot where I last saw horn fighting — he was

then opposed to a tall trooper, a huge, stalwart

fellow, who looked like a giant to our good friend.

I would have taken horn off his hands ; he would

not, however, suffer me, but bade me look to my

own opponents, and, in good truth, I had no lack

of foes, and, as I have told you, I was soon carried

from him."

I pray God he has not fallen by the hand of

this trooper," exclaimed Quintain, earnestly.

"Holy Mother! I hope not!" responded

Paul, and then added, hurriedly, " Follow me, I

will shew you the spot where I was parted from

him."

The smoke still hung in the streets like a dense

fog, which the light of many torches could

scarcely penetrate. Quintain obtained a torch

from one of the people, and with quick steps followed

the rapid progress which Paul, actuated by

feelings like his own, made. They had not proceeded

far, when the quick ear of our hero detected

a voice, a short distance from them, exclaiming

—

This is the burgomaster, I am sure."

At the same moment, Paul observed —

This is the spot, or near here — there was a

piece of cannon, I remember, just where he stood."

I think I heard his name repeated," said

Quintain ; " let us hasten and see whether or not

my ears deceived mc."

Ha I there is the cannon," cried Paul, pointing

'- ■ *m ■ - ■ I '

out one scarcely perceptible in the mass of suffocating

vapor which hung around. Quintain, with

some little difficulty, distinguished it, and discerned,

at the same time, a group of persons

standing near it. He instantly made his way

towards them, and a glance over the shoulder of

the nearest person shewed him. his fears were but

too well sounded. The burgomaster Vanderneer

was upon the ground, resting in the arms of one

of the artisans, who had donned a steel scull cap

belonging, to one 'of the defeated troopers in a moment

of joy and. triumph. He was bleeding profusely

from a terrific gash in the left shoulder, and

in his right hand was still clenched the hilt of his

broken sword ; at his feet lay the tall trooper, of

whom Paul hid spoken, dead, Quintain and his

. companion pressed forward, and instantly knelt by

the side of their Wounded friend, who,' though so

.faint: with, the loss of blood as scarcely • to . be

conscious .of aught, was still net insensible.

Quintain. obtained from: one of the bye slanders

the means of bandaging his' wound, and a litter bes

mg hastily-formed 'With muskets and pikes, he

was placed upon: it and six sturdy fellows bore

horn, under the guidance of our hero and Paul

Breitstein, to his homes rjHe.was received with

tears, though with less grief than might have been

expected — for their fears had conjured up nothing

less than death— by his wife and daughter ; they

were accompanied by Agnes and Blanche— the ;

latter threw herself in her brothers arms to weep

tears. of.jpy.fpr.hU safety. How Agnes longed

to follow her example, though she scarce dare acknowledged:

to herself! yet; she did not pause in

pressing his hand and assuring him. of her gratification

at Seeing horn uu wounded. " He smiled, and

shewed .the sleeve . of his'.'doub]e.t soaked With,

blood ; but seeing. hec tom .pale,, he hastily, acquainted!

her that it was but a mere' scratch— the:

graze Of a; bullet, Which had, drawn more. blood ;

than done, harm., .H6wever,,little conversation .

Passed between, them, for every attention was.

paid to. the situation pf the burgomaster : a, skilful

leech, ohe.Von Hetter, was sent for, and fortunately,

happened to be passing the door as the

servant was about to quit in search of . him,. ,He

examined the wound arid declared it to, be a deep,

and painful, but not a dangerous one, and dressed

it carefully, agd; then ordered his, patient .to be

carried to. bed,' and, kept quiet. until he again saw

him. He then hurried away, to. attend. on hundreds

who were waiting with agony for the employment

of his skill.

Quintain departed as soon as he had seen Vanderneer

safely placed on his couch, heard the demonstrations

of joy at the victory, his light

estimation of his wound, and his praises of his

young friend's conduct — though he hurried away

to escape the latter, as it appeared leading to a

subject which he was desirous to avoid. He

was accompanied by Paul Breitstein, who, to be

sure, had been very attentive to the burgomaster

and his daughter ; indeed, he found a ready llov,

of words to soothe Adeline's grief, and there must

have been more than common eloquence in them,

for they had a Wondrous effect in alleviating her

anguish, and obtained for horn a look which

brought horn as much happiness as the defeat of

the troopers did her father. When they gained

the street they hastened to the scene of the late

conflict, and busied themselves in assisting in the

removal of the wounded and the dead. The

cathedral was set apart for the reception of the

killed, friend and toe, although in placing them

cafe was taken, even in death, to make a distinction

; comrade was placed by comrade — the 

in. one long row, and the troopers in

another, > A .large, building was converted into a

hospital for. the wounded, and thither they were

borne, and their respective hurts attended to, without

distinction of friend, or foe. Those who had

worked hard in the battle, and bad escaped unhurt

or with some slight wound, busied themselves

with praiseworthy industry in the removal of their

stricken . friends. A rough set they appeared,

with .their faces blackened and grimed with powder,

and here and. there spotted with blood, to bear

beneath so grim an tenor such kind hearts.

Wearied as they roust have been with their previous

exertions, they slackened not their efforts

until the wounded were extricated from the dead,

and placed where their, hurts could receive every

attention and care. . .

As .the morning dawned, and displayed their

darkened"visages, with their rough beards, mustachios,

and disordered hair, that looked not like

beings. engaged in the offices of humanity, and toi

be prosecuting their philanthropic task with such

tenderness and such industry withal. A brisk

wind arose with the sun, and served to carry off

the smoke which, like a dense cloud, had settled

on the town, almost impenetrable in its density,

and scarcely possible of being inhaled. The effects

of the contest were everywhere in its vicinity

plainly manifest: the fronts of houses, doors, windows,

3cc., were perfectly riddled with balls, while

in many places the cannon balls might be seen in

the houses three parts buried in the wood work,

and the holes and gashes they had made in the

stone work were but too visible. The pavement

of the streets, if such it might be called, exhibited

a ghastly appearance, in the pools of blood which

everywhere stained it. Weapons of every description,

many broken, steel head-pieces, gauntlets,

breast-plates, caps, aud various accoutrements,

were lying about strewed in wild confusion.

They laid there unheeded while the removal of

the bodies took place, but by noon the next day

they tower cleared wayland the streets cleansed

of the terrible stain which shewed, too plainly,

the struggle, foot by foot, which had taken place

over its uneven surface. When the task of consigning

the bodies to their respective places was

finished, Quintain sought Frank Merritt ; he had

several times encountered horn engaged in the

same employment as himself, that of removing

the wounded, until the day broke — then he missed

horn, aud, though he afterwards searched above

an hour, he could not discover him. He was not

very much surprised at this, for, knowing his singular

character and having a shrewd guess at the

nature of his connexion with the Fehm-gerichte,

he was prepared for any act which, iv another,

would excite his wonder ; and, therefore, without

prosecuting his search farther, he retired to his

home, after parting with Paul Breitstein, and in

his house, lone and solitary, he retired to sleep

away the fatigues of the night, and in his dreams

to act again the active part he had taken in its

events.

chap. XXIII.

A few hours deep slumber refreshed horn, and

he found the noon passed when he threw open the

casement to admit the fresh air. Upon the ledge

lay an object which attracted his eye : it appeared

to be a roll of white paper in the shape of a ball ;

he took it and unrolled it — it was but a strip of

paper round a stone ; he opened it, and, in hastily

written characters, road, " The hour is favorable

for the return of the Painter." There was nothing

more, but he could not be deceived in the

hand — it was that of Frank Merritt' s. The hint

was not lost upon horn, and, equipping himself for

his journey, he hastened to the hostel where he

had left his horse, on his return to Antwerp the

night previous to the last, and found it had been

well taken care of : he had not been able to see

after it since hi* return, having, as may be supposed,

been so closely occupied with other matters.

While the horse was saddling, the host said —

Did you hear the thunder last night, sir ?"

Thunder !" echoed Quintain, " what mean

you ?"

Why there was a terrible noise to be sure,"

he replied ; "my wife said it was a fire and a

blowing up of some warehouses, but I said it was

thunder, for it made such a noise and lasted so

long."

Is it possible that you knew not a battle took

place here last night," said Quintain, " between

the citizens and the soldiers ?"

Holy mother keep us I not I sir," he replied.

I never busy myself with any matters which

don't concern me beyond my door — I heard nobody

say anything about such a thing, and it does

not concern me, that is one thing."

I think you would have found it concern you

if the soldiers had gained the victory," said Quin-tin,

with a significant nod of the head ; but as he

was likely to prove but a very indifferent listener

who could be so indifferent to the interests of his

native city, he would not waste time in enlightening

horn respecting what really had occurred ; be

therefore mounted his steed, threw the host his

money, and, clapping spurs lo his horse, galloped

briskly away. A crowd of artisans, who were

thronged round the shattered eastern gate, recognised

horn as he passed through it, and gave horn a

hearty cheer, which he gracefully acknowledged,

a thought passing through his mid at the time,

that the cheer would have been louder and longer

still if they had known the errand upon which he

was bound. He bad proceeded a few miles along

the road, which was lonely, and arriving at a spot

which was more secluded than any he bad reached

he was surprised by the appearance of a party of

horsemen, who, emerging from the shadow of a

clump of trees, advanced towards him. Instantly

conjecturing some opposition, he applied to his

holsters, which were supplied with pistols, and

made them ready for instant use ; be saw that

his sword also was clear, and then reigning in

his steed he compelled horn to stop, and awaited

their approach. As they drew near one advanced

from the rest, and as soon as he was within earshot

he exclaimed, loudly —

The hour is favorable for the return of the

Painter."

"I know the words," replied Quintain, "and

horn who framed the sentence — what would you

with me ?"

Wc have been commanded to join and escort

you to and from the convent of St. Francis," replied

the man, briefly ; " you have no need for

further question — you can guess the rest."

"I can, truly," responded Quintain ; and, giving

his horse the spur, ho started forward with a

grateful feeling for the thoughtfulness of horn who

had done horn this kindness. The small band

waited until he approached, and sainted horn respectfully

as he passed, and then followed in his

rear. He noticed that they were twelve in number

and were all habited alike — dark green doublets

and hose, buckskin boots, brown beaver hats

and black feathers, a sword by their side, and a

musket at their saddle bow ; they wore the appearance

of habitual reserve, and Quintain, for

some undefined reason, felt little or no inclination

to enter into converse with any of them. He

was well mounted, and be kept up his pace until

he reached Malines ; he paused there a short time

to refresh the horses, and then pursued his journey

until the convent was gained ; but his companions,

or rather attendants, did not accompany

horn so far — they left horn within a mile of the

sacred edifice, and informed horn they would there

await his return near the spot where Flors had

waited for horn when he sought refuge at the convent.

Upon application, our hero, was instantly

admitted, and was quickly in the presence of Michael

Flors : he was pained to perceive that he

was paler and thinner than when they had parted ;

lines of care and anxiety had began to make their

appearance, and his hair was whiter, Quintain

fancied, than before. He sprang forward as soon

as he perceived our hero, and enfolded horn in his

arms, exclaiming, with enthusiasm —

I am very glad to see thee ; right glad am 1

truly ; where hast thou been so very, very long ?

I had hoped to have seen my beloved child before

this — thou didst promise me I should, and fondly

have I watched every hour, expecting, from the

sunrise to the day's decline, that I should have

the joy of greeting her, of folding her to my heart,

and gratifying the restless yearnings of my soul

to once more behold her. — You have come now

to say I shall see her soon, have you not? — Do

not disappoint me by a negative. Ah I young

Quintain, if thou didst but know how eagerly I have

watched for thee — have looked for some tidings

from thee, however small — have waited, hoped,

prayed for it, and began at last te think that thou,

too, wert like the world, forgetful of those in distress,

thou wouldst not crush the hopes the sight

of thee raised, by bringing me news to damp my

fond expectations — to consign me to despair."

Believe me, roy dear friend," said Quintain,

affected by the earnest enthusiasm of the old

man's speech," I should not appear before thee

with such a smiling face if I had not news for

thee which I am sure will give thee fresh comfort

and satisfaction. Thou hast not watched nor

prayed in vain — the time is come when Agnes

shall rest in thine arms — when, in honored security,

thou shalt repose beneath the shelter of thine

own dwelling."

What is this I hear ?" exclaimed Flors, with

increasing agitation ; " repose in my own dwelling

1 return to Antwerp, fold ray child to my

heart, and beneath my own roof ! aud the time

now come ?

Even so," returned Quintain. " All is as I

have said."

Great God I thank thee," cried Flors, suddenly

sinking upon his knees and with great earnestness

repeating a prayer of thanksgiving.

Quintain assisted horn to rise, and the old man, with

a convulsive pressure, squeezed his hand, while

tears of true felicity glistened in his eyes.

Tell me, my noble friend, how this hath been

brought to pass : thou hast had a strong hand in

this matter. I have to add to the obligation conferred

by thee upon me of mine and ray daughter's

life that of my happiness."

I will tell thee as wc journey homeward,"

said Quintain; "at present, rest happy with the

knowledge that Antwerp is free — she has shaken

off the yoke tyranny would have imposed upon

her, and it must tike a mightier hand than his

who first confined thee to again tear thee from

the protection of the people of Antwerp. Say,

good friend, art thou ready to depart?"

Now this instant," cried Flors eagerly, yet a

little bewildered by the tenor of Quintain's speech.

A fevv words of sincere gratefulness to the prior

of the convent for the great kindness he has

shewn me while staying beneath bis sacred roof,

then my hat and staff, and I am with you gladly —

gladly."

Short was the time occupied in bidding tho

worthy and benevolent prior farewell ; a horse,

furnished by the latter, was appropriated to the

use of Flors, and the old man and the youth commenced

their journey with alacrity — one but too

anxious lo embrace a darling child, and the other

equally desirous to shew the maiden that he was

never weary in doing her service. Upon gaining

the spot where Quintain had left his mysterious

companions he saw them there still, sitting as

hopelessly as though they and their steeds were

sculptured in stone. Flors started on perceiving

them, and looked with an anxious air upon them

as he discovered they followed the path which

Quintain and himself took, immediately after they

passed the place where they were stationed. Fixing

an enquiring look upon our hero, he said —

What men are these ?"

They are friends," he replied, " more I cannot

tell you ; they escorted me hither, and will

accompany us back, and I well believe there is

little danger of interruption in our path while they

accompany ns."

Thi* answer appeared lo satisfy the painter, and

again a thousand fond questions were put by horn,

respecting Agnes, which were answered with as

much minuteness and faithfulness as Quintain was

capable of. They gradually led to an account of

the previous night's work, which our hero gave

with an animation that fired the old nun's heart ;

his eyes glistened at the recital, and his fingers

sought the hilt of his sword as he heard some desperate

scat related. Ever and anon he broke into

exclamations indicative of his feelings.

Would to heaven I had been there," he cried,

as he heard with enthusiasm the recital of the

stern, unflinching stand made by the gallant citizens

against their foes. " Would I had been

there — a feeble hand, weakened by age, might not

have accomplished much ; but a firm heart, and a

tie love for the city which gave me birth —

which reared, fostered, and cherished me, might

have proved of some little service ; I should have

been one added to the true cause, and one iv a

moment like that, however humble, is not to be

despised."

Quintain coincided with horn, and then proceeded

with his tale until he had related all. As he

finished, Flors cried, fervently —

Glory to the brave hearts! Honor to the

rough beards and brawny arms ! What though

a man stand at the anvil, or lit al the room — what

though he be a delver, a boor, or a simple artificer

— is he not a man ? Is not his home his

castle — his heaven on earth ? And is that to be

invaded by those who don a steel cap and buff

jerkin, because such be the pleasure of beings

God has seen fit to send into the world the sons

of nobles ? No ! perish all such base designs —

may they be frustrated as the vile attempt of yesternight.

Honor to the free citizens of Antwerp I

there's not a rough, grim visaged, unwashed artisan

I could not fold to roy heart. Why, thank

God ! I was born in Antwerp, the birth place of

such true sons. Would I had been in the fray !

I would I had — I would to heaven 1 had."

Such outbursts were frequent as they journeyed

homeward ; his natural enthusiasm displayed

itself forcibly, for he could not listen to, or speak

of, the deeds which were done, without bright

tears of pride and gratification clustering thickly

in his eyes. He even envied Vanderneer his

wound.

I always had a strong esteem for the honest

burgomaster," he said, animatedly, " though he

has not much of a soul for painting ; but now,

now I will hold horn in my heart as a brother — a

beloved, honored, noble brother. The brave old

heart ! to stand up so nobly in behalf of roy child

and the honor of the city, and to fight the good

fight with such true courage. The benison of all

good men and true upon his head ! May the turf

rest lightly upon bis grave when it pleases the

Almighty to take horn, aud may his place be on

His right hand when his spirit soars to heaven !"

Quint iv, with all sincerity, echoed his wish, and

with such spirit-stirring converse they pursued

their way until the gates of Antwerp lay before

them. Quintain turned bis head to thank those

mysterious attendants of his journey for their escort,

but they were nowhere visible ; and with an

emotion of surprise, which was speedily dissipated,

he concluded they had accompanied horn as far as

there was likely to be danger, and when it ceased

had left horn, while deeply engaged in converse

with Michael Flors.

As they passed through the city gates, which

were being repaired, the old painter took off his

cap and respectfully saluted the bury workmen,

whom he said, in a low voice, were the deliverers

of their homes from the foot of the despot, and

they replied to horn with a cheer which went to his

heart. Others whom they met, busily occupied

in repairing the effects of the struggle, he, with

fervency, addressed, aud received the same honest,

hearty reply. At length ho reached Wanderer's

house, and then all thoughts, save those iv

which his darling Agues was centred, fled from

his mid. Who could paint the joy, the delight,

with which he folded her to his heart after so long

a separation ? Who could describe the strong

emotions, painful from extreme pleasure, which

both felt at being thus restored to each other ?

The father and the child, loving each other With

an unalloyed devotion, without other kindred or

tie in the world — who could know or feel what

were the feelings of both at such a moment?

Those who witnessed it were affected by it, and,

while it took place, none could utter a word to the

other for the thronging tears in their eyelids, and

when a little composure was regained, what greeting

there was amongst them — how flattering the

old painter was to Adeline and to Blanche, who

he gallantly said would have rivalled Cleopatra

successfully in the heart of Mark .Antony, had be

seen her.

Both Agnes and I thought your brother particularly

handsome," he said " but I must say-though

you resemble, very much resemble each

other — that you have the advantage. Don't you

think so, Agnes?"

It would be hard to say which bore the most

crimson countenance — Agnes or Quintain, and

their embarrassment was augmented by their eyes

meeting, each, with a throbbing heart, perceiving

the confusion of the other. This was, however,

fortunately not noticed in the joy of the moment,

although Michael Flors repeated his question —

one which had poor Caspar Hauser heard, he

would have felt a strong inclination to have hugged

horn for bis discrimination. Agnes at length

replied the question was hardly fair, but, if she

must give an answer, she was fearful for Quintain's

vanity that she must coincide with her father.

Quintain made an attempt at a smile, and muttered

something respecting his vanity never leading horn

to believe that there was any comparison between

horn and his sister, and with much readiness

yielded her the palm. This, from a strong secret

emotion, was nearly inaudible, and, in the hilarity

of the moment, the old painter vowed it was caused

by his reluctance to make the acknowledgment,

which Quintain, in a firmer voice — by an effort —

denied.

And hero is a youth whom no one has thought

fit to present to me," said Flors, pointing to Paul

Breitstein, who was one of the party and who, it

was remarkable, would come very frequently to

see what progress the burgomaster made towards

health. " That he is a honest youth lam sure,

or I should not meet horn here — that he is a gal-wanton,

and has lifted his arm in his city cause,

I can detect by the bandaged," arm and the face

somewhat paler than is its native hue. Will no

one say to Michael Flors this is — "

He paused, and Quintain immediately, in a firm,

clear voice, exclaimed, taking horn by the hand

and leading horn forward —

That will I. This is Paul Breitstein, an early

friend of Adeline, and one's long standing with

the burgomaster. My acquaintance with horn is

brief, but will not remain so. Last night, in the

thickest of the fight, when tho struggle was hottest

and the danger°grcatest, I saw horn doing

deeds of which the bravest heart might have been

proud. Like a true son of Antwerp, fighting for

what all the world holds dear, he gave no foot of

ground but when our leader's policy made a retro-gazing

step necessary ; and many times I heard

the voice of one, whose praise should make a man

proud, applauding horn for his feats of daring.

When the struggle was ended, but wc had still to

dislodge the foe from strong places which they

had previously secured, he was foremost in the

effort ; and though wounded, as you see, severely,

he sought, regardless of it, during more than half

the contest."

The old man shook Paul's htwid warmly, and

commended horn in enthusiastic terms for the part

he had played ; while Paul, strongly affected by

Quintain's generous praise of horn, which he felt

could not but lift horn in the eyes of Adeline, as generously

spoke of Quintain's conduct, as one brave

man will speak of another, and wound up by

saying —

You, however, who know horn better than I

do, will need little from me to tell you what part

he took in the action. If I was in the hottest of

the fight he must needs have been there also, for

it was scarcely possible to see ten yards for the

dense smoke of the powder ; but if you would have

a true estimate of the service he rendered Antwerp,

hear what the president has to say, or the

burgomaster Vanderneer — they will do horn greater

justice than I find it possible."

I know the rogue of old," said Michael Flors,

with fervor, " I guess where ho would be in a

storm of fire and shot ; he has no more idea

about life in such a moment, than I should have

of my dinner while conceiving some glorious

picture."

And of such a nature, for an hour or two, did

the conversation consist. It was certain that both

Quintain and Paul did each other a good turn in

speaking so warmly of each other's deeds, for

Adeline's heart beat violently while Paul's panegyric

was being pronounced, and she never

thought Quintain looked so handsome, or was so

generous as she did at that moment : Agnes'

opinion, too, of Paul was greatly enhanced by

what he had said of Quintain. But what were

each of their thoughts respecting those thus

praised ? Did not Adeline think the playmate

of her childhood, lier first sweetheart, Paul, the

fond boy who had paid her millions of attentions

and whom then she had thought more affectionately

of than any one not allied by birth to her,

now worthy of any woman's love ? and did she

not feel, that if he had not her heart still, no other

person on earth had ? and did she not favor horn

with a look expressive of that feeling? and did

he not rightly interpret it ? Ah ! and did Agnes

think less warmly of Quintain, though she had not

known horn from childhood ? Could she listen to

his praises unmoved ? could she hear horn extolled

for the qualities and achievements which make

man noble without feeling her heart swell with

pride aud exultation, and have the conviction of

his worth make the hold his handsome face and

form had already, allied with the services he had

done her, steal with tenfold strength over her

heart and settle there ? Ah ! no ! her eyes fell

upon his, and the soft, dreamy gaze, which tells

so expressively the heart shines through the

beaming look, accompanied them ; and they were

not removed until Quintain felt an emotion which

drove the blood back to his heart, and made every

nerve thrill with extacy — for he felt the conviction

steal over horn that he loved not in vain, and

his heart bounded convulsively, and his lip quivered

and trembled, while from his eyes gleamed

the first glance of passionate love which he had

ever directed towards her — their brilliancy was

almost unearthly. It was but momentary, as a

vivid lightning's flash, which illumines the earth

for an instant and then is gone ; but it was enough

it made the heart of Agnes throb, and joy to

settle there, for she, too, knew that she was beloved.



It was just night when Flors and Quintain had

arrived, and, as it was now growing late, it was

agreed, when the party prepared to break up, that

the painter should accompany the young smith to

his dwelling, and rest there for the night, in order

that he might with comfort take possession of his

house in the morning. The rest of the party,

excepting Paul, remained in their present abode j

and when they parted for the night, Quintain had

an unequivocal proof that the pressure of his hand

was returned. On his way home the streets appeared

too narrow for horn —he felt to walk on

air. His elation was noticed by Flors, as being

so opposed to his usual calm, and even melancholy,

demeanor, but be attributed it to his joy

at the deliverance of Antwerp, and, with a little

pardonable vanity, to gladness at his return, and

his heart warmed still more to horn as such

thoughts took possession of him. When Quintain

ushered horn into his study, he looked with surprise

upon the designs which our hero shewed

horn, drawn with a bold, firm hand, and handled

in a graceful and masterly manner. He inspected

them carefully, and, after a little thought, said —

Quintain, you must cultivate this talent : I

have rarely seen a subject of this description

treated with such remarkable taste and freedom,

and executed with such skill. The hand that

produced it is nearly equal to the head which conceived

it — you must go further and make the hand

equal to the mid. lam surprised at what I behold

: 1 thought my opinion of you could go no

higher — I find myself reproved and mistaken, by

these tokens of your ability."

You flatter mo," said Quintain, modestly.

No, that I scorn," exclaimed tho painter,

warmly ; " I think it the duty of every person like

myself, who have both knowledge and experience

in the art, when criticising the performance of one

who is young in its mysteries, to speak the exact

truth — neither to exaggerate nor to mitigate.

Many a young painter has been ruined by a foolish,

indiscriminate praise, where a few beauties

have been supposed to cover a multitude of faults.

Such an erroneous proceeding I consider most

uncharitable — most unkind, and is certainly most

dangerous ; let the beauties have their due praise,

but do not forbear to speak of the faults, for faults

perpetuated in time increase, until at length there

is no room for the beauties to appear, and he, who

might have bad tho world's applause, sinks into insignificance.

Wc do not, in common life, associate

with a liar and a drunkard, though he may

have a charitable heart and a few other good

qualities — at least, wc do not forbear to speak of

his faults, though he may have some beauties ;

and in a matter in which the fare of the country

is concerned, as well as that of the individual,

I esteem it little less than criminal on the part of

injudicious friends — or would-be friends, for friends

they are not — to bespattered with praise the work

of a young hand, listing horn into the misty, obscure

regions of conceit with such effectiveness as

to prevent his ever finding his way afterwards.

No, Quintain — I wish to see you a great man, and

therefore I bid you labor — I can detect faults

which would pass unnoticed by a less practised

eye, for though three-fourths of those under

whose observance they might fall would not perceive

them, still they are faults, and it is my

duty to call your attention to there, that they may

bo avoided in future."

He then proceeded to point out parts where

either haste or defective knowledge rendered

them subject to criticism ; his keen eye left no

part unscanned, nor his honest tongue no unskilful

portion unblamed, nor, at the same time, no

beauty upraised. He, however, found much

more to praise than blame, and would have worn

away the night in disquisitions upon his favorite,

his beloved art, if Quintain had not firmly, but respectfully,

insisted upon his seeking his couch

and obtaining the rest which, after the fatigue of

his journey aud the excitement he had afterwards

undergone, he was sure ho needed. In the morning

a visit was paid to Vanderneer, who, as soon

as he learned his good friend was once again safe

in Antwerp, caused it to be communicated through

the city, the consequence of which communication

was, that hundreds of the citizens assembled outside

the burgomaster's house ; and when the

painter made his appearance with his daughter,

accompanied by Quintain and his sister, they were,

to the surprise of Flors, greeted with stentorian

cheers. The old man was, however, delighted ;

he waved his cap, aud shouted as lustily as any of

them, and the tears stood in his eyes as the shouts

on all sides rose of " Welcome to Antwerp !

Welcome home to us ! Cheers for Antwerp's

pride — the Isolde limner and citizen, who would

rather suffer imprisonment than bow his neck to

the foot of base tyranny. Cheers, hearty cheers !"

Tremendous cheering followed these exclamations,

and then another cheer was made for " the

hand that liberated horn," and the city echoed with

its roar, none shouting more enthusiastically than

the painter, bending all the while his glistening

eye upon our hero ; who, though this honest kindness

on the part of the citizens made his heart

glow, yet scarce liked this public demonstration

N

which made the spectator shudder as he gazed

upon it, for it imparted an air of horror and desolation

to the building, causing it to appear a fit

residence only for villains condemned, for most

fearful crimes, to perpetual imprisonment. It

was a wild, dreary looking place, aud Flors had

contrived to render it more so in appearance than

was, perhaps, natural. Quintain, on inspecting it,

made some such remark.

"It has an aspect suited to the spot," said

Agnes ; "do you know its history ?"

But slightly," returned" Quintain ; " I have

heard the gloomy walls of Pfalz mentioned, I confess,

more on account of its being a small prison-like

possession, and boing the birth place of every

Count Palate, the legality of whose claim rests

upon his being born in this dreary building, than

any other. I have heard, too, that it has been

the scene of many a dark crime, but I fancy there

are few castles on the Rhine but may labor under

the same charge."

There is one story connected with this building

which was the cause of this picture being

painted," said Agnes, still gazing upon it with a

strange fascination.

"Indeed," said Quintain; "I should like to

hear it."

"It is short," she replied, "I will tell it you.

It is not the custom of my father to paint landscapes,

save occasionally in the back grounds of

Quintain MATSYS PIUWINO A

CO'

Session FROM AGNES Flores

of a higher class, and when he was

applied to, to paint this picture, ho declined ; but

was induced when he heard the tale it was intended

to commemorate. One of the Count Palatines,

many years since, who was a possessor of this

castle, saw by chance the fair daughter of a neighboring

baron, and fell deeply in love with her :

he was a man of strong and malignant passions,

devoid of virtue or any high principles — one who

never suffered aught to stand between horn and

any object he desired to obtain, where gold or

crime could clear his path. He made professions

of love to her which she rejected — at first, kindly,

aud when with insulting perseverance pursued,

with scorn, for her heart was another's — a knight

who was in distant lauds, fighting in the crusade.

The Count, stung by her refusal and maddened

by her taunts, appealed to her father, and with

horn was successful ; for he was wealthy and powerful,

and could, if he pleased, have destroyed his

neighbor's possessions by force of arms. The

consent of the maidens father caused the Count

to dissimulate to the maiden ; he spoke not of his

love to her, but treated her with respectful reserve,

displaying every attention that could make au inroad

upon her esteem, but never speaking of that

which he knew would be distasteful to lor, and

so she came to see horn frequently and without

that repulsiveness which the pertinacity with

which he formerly prosecuted his suit led her to

entertain. At last tidings came, that among the

thousands who sell in the holy land, her lover

was one ; her grief, Quintain, may be imagined.

The Count appeared to respect it — he did not

make his appearance for a month, and then he

presented himself wan, and pale, and melancholy.

Still he spoke not of his love, but her father began

to bestir tinsel f: he pointed out the Count's

altered demeanor, his unhappy appearance, and

he charged her, as she valued his affection and

did not wish to prove as unfeeling and ungenerous

as she appeared, she would give her hand to the

Count. Weeks, months of incessant appeals and

commands, and her father's unequivocal assertion,

that his whole safety and happiness, for he was

largely indebted to the Count, made it essential

for her to consent. She did consent, with

a bursting heart, and a prayer of forgiveness to

the spirit of horn for whose dear sake she would

have died un wedded. There were great rejoicing

made among the tenantry upon the occasion,

but when the hour arrived when she was to give

her hand to the Count, toilworn, dusty and haggard

stood her lover even at the foot of the altar.

She screamed fearfully when her eyes sell upon

him. " They told me you were dead," she cried,

and staggered towards horn, but crc he could receive

her in his arms she fell senseless upon the

ground. This event caused the greatest confusion

; the maiden wa 9 tom from her lover's grasp

and borne away ; he himself, aster a desperate

resistance, was cut down and lest for dead. A

faithful retainer who accompanied horn, however,

contrived to get horn away, and bear horn to a

cottage, where his wounds were dressed ; and after

every care and attention was paid horn, he recovered.

He ascertained from the parent of the

maiden, who had thus been carried away unwedded,

that she was confined in the castle of

Pfalz, and the Count was resolved that she should

be immured there until she consented to be his

bride — and she had determined to die rather than

give her hand to any but he who had her heart.

I cannot remember all the attempts which were

made by the knight to recover his mistress, but

after the most fearful hazards — aster the most

complicated stratagems, all of which, save the last,

were frustrated, he succeeded in rescuing her, and

carried her to his castle, where they were wedded,

but where he had to stand repeated attacks — his

estates overrun and ravaged, his vassals destroyed,

and other violences, which, though he successfully

resisted, nearly caused his destruction ; until the

neighboring barons, seeing horn so much the object

of base persecution, espoused his cause ; and

when next the Count appeared, with the intention

of overwhelming horn, he was met by such numbers

that he was completely overthrown, and so

reduced, that he was glad to join the crusade to

obliterate the scorn and contumely which he received,

after his .defeat, from all parties. That

is the story. I regret lam unable to tell you the

more interesting parts which relate to the stratagems

for the escape of the maiden, but I have a

treacherous memory ; it, however, had the effect

of making me admire the courage and devotion of

the knight, and the truthfulness of the maiden,

who would rather suffer every misery, indignity,

cruelty, and agony, than break the troth she had

plighted to her heart's lord."

The tale is, indeed, interesting," exclaimed

Quintain, who had with breathless eagerness listened

to every word, and caught new hope from

the strong sympathy which Agnes had displayed

for the lovers during her recital. " The painting

presents another aspect now ; it receives a fresh

importance from the history. It must have proved

the gloomy spot it looks, to one gentle and tender.

The knight was brave, yet not more brave than

such truth deserved."

The maiden was true, doubtless," responded

Agnes with a sweet smile, which made an ache of

pleasure in Quintain's breast, " yet was she not

more so than such devotion deserved. He was

noble, daring, chivalrous, possessing all the qualifications

to make the heart of woman proud of

such a conquest— could she be less than true ?"

And she was beautiful and gentle, affectionate

and generous, loving horn with her whole heart,

even to a desire to consign herself to that living

tomb, a convent, for his sake," said Quintain,

warmly, " and, had he the soul or spirit of a true

man, he would have adventured more than he

did for her dear love. Had I been so blessed,

day nor night, hour nor minute would I have

rested until I had obtained her release, and yet

thought I had scarce done enough to shew my estimation

of a prize so invaluable."

'Tis a pity you did not live in those days,

Quintiu," said Agnes, with an arch smile, " who

can tell but that thou might have been the favored

youth ; hadst thou, I doubt if thy impetuosity

would have suffered one stone of this awful-looking

building to stand upon another, aud then my

father would not have had to paint this picture,

and this conversation would never have occurred."

I had rather live at the present time," said

Quintain, gazing upon her earnestly. " Such

events have happened and may again take place,

even in our owu time, and one beloved, subjected

to such vile indignity, should quickly discover that

I rested not until she was safe, let the detaining

power be what it might."

The burgomaster's daughter, the sweet Adeline

Vanderneer, of whom you have so often

spoken to roe so warmly, has perhaps reason to

know the truth of your assertion," said Agnes, iv

a low voice, but with a side long glance at Quin-tin's

face. It was with a little alarm she saw a

flush overspread his features, but the crimson

shone far brighter in her own sweet face when,

with a passionate look aud a fervent tone, he

said —

Has the good painter Michael Flors' daughter,

the fair Agnes, less occasion to testify the

truth than Adeline Vauderueer ?"

I were most ungrateful, Quintain, did I say I

had," returned the maiden, with a sudden warmth ;

indeed I have much to thank your generous

gallantry for, and, trust me, it will never fade from

my best remembrance. But," she added, an arch

smile breaking over her beautiful face, " if thou

wouldst venture so much for myself and the pretty

Adeline, what wouldst thou not do for one whom

thou didst truly love ?"

Were I sure thou wouldst not hold roe as a

vain braggart," he exclaimed with enthusiasm,

I would tell thee there is not, nor can be, that

danger, however imminent, 1 would not peril for

the safety, the honor, and the happiness of her I

loved. Would she not be to me the charm which

makes life lovely, the world a paradise— the flower

of my soul — the jewel of mine honor — my tutelary

spirit — the moving principle of my life ?

would she not be to my heart that essence of terrestrial

felicity which makes even slavery borne

lightly '■ Aud what would be existence without

her, that 1 should not peril it for her sweet sake ?"

There dwells not ouc worthy of such love,"

murmured Agnes, with a throbbing agitation of

heart which rendered speech almost impossible."

There does — I swear by all that is heavenly

and sacred ! there does." He sell upon one knee,

as, urged forward by the impetuosity of his love,

he found it impossible to refrain from its declaration

: he took her unresisting hand and pressed it

to his heart as he continued — " Oh, Agnes — it is

thou who reigns solely and undivided in my

heart, its mistress, its queen ; and there hast thou

reigned since the first moment my eye fell upon

thee. I love thee, Agnes, with the love which

idolizes, which worships — which, though passionate,

elevates — and which, through all time, all

changes, all seasons, endures. Thou art the realization

of youthful dreaming and aspirations — the

embodiment of visions fondly, warmly — it may be,

romantically created by a fervent imagination.

Thou art that being, whom, before wc met, I had

only seen through the magie mirror of youthful

hopes. Thou art my first love—thou wilt be my last.

The love which is implanted in us as the highest

attribute of human nature, lifting us infinitely above

all other tidings, engrafted on our natures, to make

an elysium here — a type of the happy spot which

the weakness of others deprived us of — that pure

spirit which has but the one thought, the one desire,

to raise the object loved to the pinnacle of

purity and happiness — that love is mine for thee,

Agnes. Ah! Agnes, how can I, with weak words,

tell thee the feelings of my heart — the yearnings

of my soul — the aspirations of my spirit? How

can I make thee know how fondly, truly, dearly

I love thee ? How convince thee of my sincerity,

and of the endurance of my affection while one

faint breath of life animates my frame ? I have

no way but the earnest asseveration of a heart

which is, at least, honest, a tongue which scorned

a lie, and by deeds which speak with louder

voice than coined words."

He ceased, aud pressed the hand, which was

not unwillingly suffered to remain in his, to his

heart. Agni?, during his earnest speech, had

half turned her bead away, yet was there a pleasant

look upon her fair countenance ; she was silent,

but she would have spoken had not her tongue

clove to the roof of her mouth and deprived her

of the power of articulation — neither could she

find aught to say ; it. was in vain she endeavored

to think of something to give utterance to, but

the effort-was without success, though 'she could

feel with what agonizing expectation he was awaiting

some reply to his passionate confession to fall

from her lips. It was in vain : she could not

ejaculate a word ; but then, with sweet consideration,

she turned her mild eyes upon horn with a

soft beaming expression, which would have told

an observer, less interested than Quintain, that love

shone in that look ; and perhaps, too, she pressed

his hand softly — gently, but still she pressed it.

Quintain's heart throbbed rapidly.

It were perhaps presumption in me, beloved

Agnes, were I to ask if thy heart hath a kindred

feeling with mine," he said, in a low, trembling

voice ; "it were unjust, unmindful, ungenerous,

were I to hope to make an impression favorable to

my wishes from what has passed. I look not for

your inclining as the meed of services — I hope

not for a kind feeling — may I say affection? — as a

reward for a few trifling deeds, I have received

but too much happiness in performing. I hope,

Agnes, to make myself worthy of your good

opinion, by elevating myself in the eyes of others ;

should such a happy result follow the workings of

my ambition, then, .agnes — then will I ask thee

the one question upon which my happiness will

depend. It is due to myself that you should know

the state of my heart now, and to my sense of

justice that you should not suppose I expected you,

from that declaration, to make a reply you might

be loth, at present, to utter."

This was a generous act, and as such Agnes

felt it ; it was not lost upon her — its influence at

once displayed itself, and she found the power of

utterance which had previously been denied to

her. It was true she spoke in a low, faint tone ;

but to the ears of a lover it was sufficiently audible

— not a word vas lost.

"The heart of a woman," she said, " is not less

trusting, less generous, less uncalculating, than

that of man ; it is never closed against acts of

kindness, of essential service, or a visible disposition

to render its owner such tokens of good will,

as leave the friendship of the performer beyond a

doubt. It is generous to the generous, kind to

the kind, ready ever to render service fer service.

It is deeply impressed by a good office, and fails

not, at least, to tender its esteem for the favor it

has received. It looks not — and should not — for

future acts to test those already past before it

acknowledges the service with the gratefulness

which is its due ; a woman's heart would not be

worth the possession were it so exacting. It is

the confiding trustfulness, the yielding soul, spirit,

faith, to the honor of horn who has won the heart,

bestowing all to his care, and looking up to horn

for preservation from deceit and unhappiness,

which makes the chief charm with which man

invests the gist. I have lived, as thou knowest, a

secluded life, with no companion but a dear father,

whose admonitions and lessons were such as to

improve my mid and heart : what I have felt

due to the latter he had taught me how to guide

by the former, but he never said — ' Have many

kindnesses performed before you credit the goodness

of your benefactor.' He never taught me,

Quintain, to receive such services as thine, and

wait until the world spoke praisingly crc I acknowledged

the effect they had produced Bonn my

heart. And, Quintain, thickest thou I could remember

being saved by thee from a fearful fate,

without being moved ? Thickest thou I could

know a father tenderly loved was rescued by thee

from the jaws of death — that a thousand untiring

acts of importance to his and my welfare should

come home to my heart without finding there a

resting place — that, having been so truly benefitted,

I should keep my heart cold until the world

stamped thy fare with its undying praise, and

then display a warmth fostered by such sunshine ?

No, Quintain, — it were nn worthy of me — of you.

No! — my father," and now her voice trembled

more than ever, " my father never taught me to

disown a love won by nobleness and worth ! No,

Quintain — though these foolish tears oppress me,

I will not disown thou dost not love in vain."

Her voice dwindled almost to a mvrmvr as she

concluded, and her head fell upon his breast ; he

imprinted upon her lips one passionate kiss, he

strained her to his heart, and hot tears of joy and

excitement gushed into his eyes as, with a rich

tone, he aspirated —

Mine ! mine only: — now and for ever !"

And then followed, as ever have and ever will,

the broken but impassioned vows, the promises of

constancy — many, alas ! made too frequently in

vain, though not in this instance — the asseverations

of truth and sincerity, the vow that no living

power should step between their love, the solemn

pledge and the earnest determination to fulfil all

promised, whatever betide.

And then they grew calmer, though they sat,

hand in hand, looking in each other's eyes, oppressed

with too much happiness ; each finding

some fond expression ever on their lips, and uttering

it with all the earnestness which rendered it

doubly dear ; and while they were thus engaged,

Michael Flors returned. He did not notice the

unusual brilliancy of their eyes, nor their flushed

cheeks ; he was too full of the events of his morning's

perambulation to notice it. He spoke to

both as be had always hitherto done, with that

kindness of tone which plainly displayed his affection

for them.

This has been a remarkable morning for me,

I assure you," he said, rubbing his bauds with an

air of gratification ; " I wish you had been with

me — you would have been very pleased, I know."

Quintain had no doubt that ho would not have

been half so pleased as he had been made by remaining

where he was, but he did not say so.

First, as you have heard, I dare say, I visited

Vanderneer," continued Flors. " There 1 found

your friend Paul Breitstein holding a private conversation

with the fair Adeline. By my faith !

Quintain, you must keep a sharp eye upon that

youth, or be will obtain the best place in the

maidens graces."

I do not fear it," said Quintain, with a smile,

and a glance at Agnes, which she fondly repaid.

Ah, that is your vanity," returned the old

man, chuckling. "By St. Luke ! man, I tell

thee there is some danger, for the maiden blushed

like a reflect from scarlet drapery, and the youth

stammered when I spoke to him. It may be very

fine for you to sit quietly here, and be painted out

of her heart by a young and skilful hand ; but

were I you, I would not suffer horn to have any

such opportunity for using his palette and pencils.

Eh! what. say you?"

I can only repeat, that I have no sear for the

result," observed Quintain, wishing devoutly that

he would change the subject.

Obstinate and self-confident — wise in your

own conceit, of course," exclaimed the old man.

I would be more circumspect, I tell you ; I have

no doubt he was sketching some enchanting picture

; a pair of fond hearts in a bark of pleasure

on the lake of felicity— the back ground all charming

scenery, sweet undulating loveliness ; the

foreground occupied flowers, flying and floating

loves, and the heavens without a cloud. I daresay

I could have added, when the picture was

completed, a disappointed swain in the corner,

cursing his unlucky stars that he had slept while

another had borne his love away — Eh ! Quintain,

how say you ?"

That your imagination is exceedingly fertile,"

replied Quintain, with a smile. "I hope you

found the burgomaster as well employed as his

daughter," he added.

Why, he was occupied in quarrelling with Von

Hetter, his wife, and his nurse ; he was bent upon

emancipating himself from his couch, and their

united persuasion was insufficient to keep horn

there. He was sick of his couch, his room, everything

that kept horn confined, and he swore he

would break the chain. He looked so much better,

aud I so admire the principle actuating horn,

that, when appealed to by both his good dame and

Von Hetter, I could not so far go against my conscience

as to coincide with them, and I thought

he would have hugged me for my opinion, while

they both pretty plainly told me, 1 ought to know

better ; but truly, as I said to the dame, the skies

are so blue, the air is so fresh, and Antwerp is so

free, that he could not do better, I was convinced,

than enjoy them. However, Von Hetter's notions

were always conventional, and women are

proverbially obstinate ; one tried to convince me

by argument that I was wrong, and the oilier

averred it was not good advice, because it was not.

In spite of all opposition, the burgomaster was

dressed, and as there was to be a meeting of the

Town Council, why he must needs go there ; and

right honorably was he received ; it made one's

heart glad to witness it. There was a general

mention made of all who had done the city service

; and I can tell you, master Quintain Matsys,

for your own especial comfort and satisfaction,

that your name was mentioned with most flattering

epithets. However, a more public acknowledgement

is to be made, and you will parade the

streets the envy of all the youths, and the admiration

of all the maidens, with a chaplet of laurel

leaves encircling your brow. By the way, there '

is one of whom every mouth is speaking, yet no

one knows who he is ; it seems that when justice

is rendered to all parties, he may claim the high

honor of having, by gallant deeds, and wise counsel,

been the principal cause of the successful opposition

of the citizens against the higher order :

He is no where to be found — no oue has seen horn

since the fight ; and conjecture is roaming over

its widest field with the effort to discover who and

what he is, and what has become of him. Dost

thou know horn, Quintain ?"

Why do you look so fixedly at me, aa you ask 1

that question ?" returned Quintain, as Flors bent

upon horn a peculiarly meaning look.

Because it was surmised that you knew horn

better than any one else," returned Flors. " Von

were seen to speak together ; his arrangements, j

too, were made so that you might gain much honor, j

and as little danger as such gain might involve. \

His tones cheered you on, and praised you ; his

eye glistened like a star when you performed some

bold feat ; and his voice grew rich with emotion,

when he spoke to the president respecting you. If

he is not forthcoming, you will be called upon to

unkennel horn, or bear horn that tribute of admiration

and gratitude which the citizens universally

feel towards horn, and which it will be their pride

and honor to put in some tangible shape. Pray

who is this wondrous personage? Thousands of

surmises are rise ; some say he is the spirit of the

Hartz mountains — others, that he is the terrible

Faust of the Red hand ; a man averring so, that

vows he saw horn once before — others seem to

think he must be the Patron Sant of Antwerp ;

and, judging from all I have heard of horn, that

does not appear the most absurd conjecture of all.

Others affirm he must be Vulcan himself, for he

displayed great partiality to the band of sturdy

smiths, and busied himself much among them.

All, however, is but conjecture — it rests for you

to explain. Come, Quintain, unravel the mystery."

"That can I not," replied Quintain. "That

he is a strange, mysterious being, I confess ; that

I have been frequently with horn I acknowledge,

and am much indebted to horn, even to the saving

of my life ; but I can neither explain who or what

he is, nor can I acquaint you with his locality.

He appears at all times and seasons without notice

of approach, and disappears in the same fashion.

I doubt not that he is acquainted with the surmises

and speeches respecting horn, with their

purport, and will appear if it seems fit to horn todo

so — more I cannot tell you."

"That is not much, yet is it something," observed

Flors ; " however, you will have to answer

as much to others as you have to me, for the president

is bent upon telling you what he and his

colleagues think of you. As for me, they said

all sorts of flattering things which I did not deserve,

and have given me commission for six large

pictures commemorating the event, for which I

must draw largely upon your memory and descriptive

powers. I have a host of smaller ones

beside to execute ; it is as if this attack upon the

liberty of the subject has given an impetus to

painting which will cause it to flourish more than

ever, and keep me employed for several years, if

life is for so long a term granted to mc."

I sincerely hope it may," observed Quintain.

I thank you," said Flors, with a smile. " I

am but too happy to echo the wish ; I have not

yet, however, ended my morning's performances.

I saw the worthy burgomaster to his residence,

heard horn declare he was next to being thoroughly

well, and hastened hither for fear, Agnes, you

should think I had been run away with again." —

Agnes' conscience smote her : she had not thought

once about horn while Quintain had been with her,

save when she mentioned bis name, and then, perhaps,

only, under existing circumstances, to think

his absence fortunate. Flors did not notice the

red tinge on his daughter's forehead, but continued

— " I had not proceeded far when I met a

young man, who told me he had just returned from

a tour to Italy, and that young man was Francis

Floris, your cousin german. I went with horn to

his studio, and was surprised at the progress he

has made in the art : he has almost reached me,

young as he is. His skill with the brush is really

extraordinary. I was astonished and delighted.

He has great genius, and will be a great man.

That he has the true enthusiasm too, the pure

feeling, which makes a painter great, I can see by

the painting and sketches which he has already

executed ; and there is a soul in all he has done

which convinces me my expectations will not be

deceived. You should have been a painter, Quin-tin

; there are many reasons why you should have

been a painter — one in particular ; but," he added,

with a sigh, " why think of that now — it is too

late, too late."

A voice at this moment pronounced his name —

it appeared to come from the antechamber ; it

was not loud, but there was something strange

and hollow in its tone which startled both Agnes

and Quintain. Flors, who looked surprised, did

not, however, seem to notice it so much as his

two youthful companions. He rose from his

seat and walked to the door ; he paused for a moment,

and gazing with an air of interest, which

partook of melancholy in its character, upon our

hero and his fair daughter ; he murmured —

"Its a pity — they are well matched ; but it

must not be — my vow — it must not be."

He disappeared from the room as he spoke,

leaving tho maiden and her lover wondering at

this strange interruption.

CHAP. XXIV.

N Frank Merritt's

quitting the

field of action, he

sought by ob

iscure paths, the

riverside; he unmoored

a boat

which was fastened

there, leaped

into it, and

rowed himself for

some distance up

the Scheldt, to a point where a few trees reared

their heads above a thicket. He rowed the boat

ashore and, landing, fastened it to a small stump

placed there by art or nature for such a purpose.

He entered the thicket and mounted the back of

a steed which stood there, held by a man habited

in the attire of the Secret Tribunal : no word

passed between them — a sign seemed all sufficient.

freshmen for his steed. The daylight as it broke

saw horn once again in the saddle, and urging his

steed onward. Four days passed and he was yet

journeying on. The afternoon of the fourth day

he paused at a little hut, snatched an hour's rest,

aud throwing, upon waking, a cloak around horn,

I he walked from the humble dwelling forth into

1 an open space beyond. The rise of a hill lay before

horn, and when he reached the summit, before

horn by extended a pleasing view: the broad

waters of an extensive lake, not far distant, upon

i which was a solitary sail, were bounded by hills ;

upon one of these hills stood a castle, and upon

that building, seemingly unmoved by the beauty

of the prospect, Frank bent his eyes earnestly.

He will be there, doubtless," he muttered ;

but what will be my reception ? Hum ! it were

j better, perhaps, to brave the fury of a lightning

storm in a green wood, than stand before horn

when he knows all. Well, let horn rage — his

lightning has not yet scorched me, and his foaming

passion cannot awe roe. For what have I

schooled my heart, if there breathes the man who

could raise one emotion of alarm or dread within

i my breast ? Come his wrath how it may, I will

tell horn all, coolly and calmly."

He wrapped his cloak closer around horn, as if

with a feeling of. Determination to persist in the

course he resolved to adopt, and proceeded. Erelong

he encountered a stranger, habited in the

costume of a retainer. Frank recognised the attire,

and said —

Thou hast left the Grand Duke in the castle ?"

"I have," replied the man.

"In what mood ?" he asked.

The man laughed, and said, bitterly —

That which sends many of his people to the

other world, if they wink an eyelash in a fashion

which likes horn not."

Enough," said Frank, and passed on.

"If you seek speech with horn," called the retainer

after horn, " 'ware hir n: communicate no

tidings which may chafe horn, unless you are tired

of your life. Then, indeed, say what thou bast

to say, and the lake will crc long be your last bed.

Von sail is approaching from the castle — it will

wast you back again sooner than you are likely to

desire, methinks."

Frank gave a cold, indifferent smile, nodded his

head, and passed on, continuing his path until he

reached the banks of the lake. The boat had

just touched the shore, and a number of servants

of the Grand Duke landed. .All gazed with curious

eyes upon Frank, but his face presented a

cold and passionless aspect, from which they

could gather nothing but that he looked not

in the humor to be spoken with. He stepped

into the boat, and, motioning in the direction

of the castle, he seated himself in the stem-sheets

and sunk into an air of abstraction,

from which he did not arouse himself until

the keel grated upon the opposite shore. He

started from his seat, leaped lightly upon the

strand, and proceeded to the castle-gates. He

gave the countersign, and was admitted. He

took a ring from his finger and sent it to the noble

of the castle, who had been characterised by horn

as the Grand Duke, and flinging himself carelessly

upon a chair, awaited a summons. It soon came,

the attendant, with a white face, said— -

The Grand Duke awaits your presence. He

smiled grimly when he saw the ring, and bade me

send you before him. Hast thou bearded a lion

without quailing ? if so, thy heart may beat to

meet him — aye, and thy check blanche, too. I

would have thee hasten, for his mood is fearful

now."

Frank smiled : he threw bis cloak upon the

seat, and divested himself of his hat with cool

deliberation.

"The Grand Duke will wait for me," he observed.



Aye, truly," replied the man, significantly;

but when he catches thee, he will advise thee

of thy slowness of foot."

Possibly," said Frank, quitting the chamber

with the air of one who had fear of nothing in the

shape of man's wrath. He appeared to know his

way ; he traversed several chambers until he

reached a small corridor — he passed through a

door which, by a small partition, was made to

intersect it, and with a noiseless tread he entered

a room where two persons were in deep converse.

One was an elderly man, with a martial appearance

— he wore armor on his breast : his companion

was similarly attired, but instead of armor he

wore a buff doublet. Frank approached unheard,

and stationed himself, with an air of careless ease,

near the door. Two retainers in an antechamber

were watching horn with some surprise. He

remained unseen for at least ten minutes, and then

he who wore the buff jerkin turned suddenly round

and perceived horn : he stared with open eyes and

mouth, as though completely electrified, while

Frank, changing his position into one of more respect,

cooly awaited the outburst of anger whiche

saw preparing for him. At length it came.

Villain," roared the noble, " how earnest thou

here ? What made thee thrust thy ungainly presence

before us?"

Your own order," replied Frank, laconically ;

it was I who sent the ring."

Thou — hast thou heard aught I said but now ?"

he enquired, with a lowering brow.

Every word," uttered Frank, " which within

these last few minutes you have spoken ; mine

ears fail me not yet, and you scarce spoke in an

undertone."

That confession hath lost thee thy Use," cried

the Grand Duke, for it was he who spoke.

Nay, I have no such fear," said Frank coolly.

I lie not, for that troubles my conscience — death

is less unpleasing, but you will not order my

death."

"Dog! dost thou beard me? Without there !

who waits?" roared the Duke, passionately.

The two retainers, with their partisans, hurried

forward. Frank glanced at a brace of pistols he

wore in his belt — it was momentary, but the

Grand Duke observed it, and his passion increased.



Seize horn!" he cried vehemently.

Stand back," shouted Frank, in a voice of

thunder, as the men were about to lay their hands

upon him. "By my halidaroe ! but my bullets

are swifter than thy lords commands, and as obedient

to mine as thou to his. Stand back — and

you, my lord Duke, curb the violence of your

temper, and hear one who can rise above your

passion, but be respectful to your mildness— one

who has too frequently shaken hands with death

to fear any position. Send back your attendants

hear what I have to communicate, and then set

your people upon mc. I can as well fight to the

death here as elsewhere."

Hear horn, and despatch horn afterwards,"

whispered the noble who had been conferring with

tbc Grand Duke. His suggestion was obeyed,

The choleric noble, the creature of impulse, waved

his hand, and the two retainers retired to their original

position.

whence come you now ?" asked the Duke,

impatiently.

From Antwerp," replied Frank.

Ha ! how long since ?"

Four days !"

So recently — whv, man, thou must have flown

hither 1"

A steed bore me — one who is without compeer,"

said Frank, proudie.

Four days," repeated the Grand Duke ; " by

the blood of my ancestors ! it must have been the

time. Tell me, knave, was there a commotion in

the city crc yon departed."

There was such a one as cities rarely see, and

wish less frequent still," replied Frank ; " but that

is not the matter upon which I sought your highness

— it was of another nature, yet deeply — "

Pish ! speak of what 1 am questioning thee

what was the result of the contest? Hast lost

thy tongue?"

No — the troops were defeated, and one and

all made prisoners ;the citizens have won their

freedom right nobly, and will maintain it."

"Death! Is it thus — is it thus?" questioned

the Duke, with astonishment.

"The fight was bloody and desperate, but home

defeated hire — Antwerp is free," returned Frank,

with undisguised pride and pleasure.

Aud you — you were in the fray. Which side

did you espouse? Speak quickly and truly:

remember you love not lying," exclaimed the

Duke.

You judge roe truly," observed Frank, with

an imperturbable coolness which strongly affected

the Duke. " I was in the fray, but acted on my

own responsibility — tin. illicit to any power but the

dictates of my heart and conscience."

I care not one curse to whom or what you

were allied," roared the Duke ; " for whom, and

with whom, did you fight ?"

The brave citizens of Antwerp ! I exerted

my best judgment, and my strongest arm — both

did their share towards the conquest. Are' you

answered ?"

The rage of the Grand Duke was boundless ;

he seemed choking with passion. Once more he

was about to summon his retainers, but was

checked by his compauion,who again whispered —

You have not heard all — hear horn out, and

then make horn a fitting object of thy vengeance."

The Duke acted upon it. Frank heard this

suggestion, and smiled fearlessly ; he drew from

his vest a scroll, which, half unrolling, he presented

to the Duke, with an indifferent air, for his

inspection. The Duke looked hard at horn, to see

if in the lines of his countenance he could peruse

aught of awe or fear there, but the calm expression

defied his utmost scrutiny. He kicked over

an ottoman, or stool, upon which his foot had a

moment previously rested, and snatched the paper

out of his hand ; his eyes glared with astonishment

as he scanned it ; he uttered an exclamation

of fierceness, aud, when he finished, exclaimed —

"The Count Idenberg arraigned and arrested!

who has done this?"

"I," returned Frank, with imperturbable coolness.



"Thou — thou! Hound! Villain! Devil!

Who art thou ?" shouted the Duke, with startling

vehemence. Frank stood, however, unmoved:

he said calmly —

Thou knowest me not in this garb — thou

need'st not. I came for thy sign-manuel to that

document — I depart not without it."

** Depart !" ejaculated the Duke, almost bewildered.

" Villain, it shall be to the lake, tied

heels to head — thou hast arraigned and arrested

Count Idenberg, my trusted friend ! Who and

what art thou ? Speak, or I strike thee dead —

thy life hangs upon a breath."

I fear it not," said Frank, in cold, measured

tones. " I would not sound ray name in thine ear

while thou hadst the power aud the will to slay

me — I would perish crc reveal it, for one fear I

should have, and one only — it would be that thou

shouldst think I was alarmed into an utterance of

my name to save my life."

Who art thou ?" roared the Duke, in a very

whirlwind of fury.

Faust or the Rkd Hand !" was the reply,

slowly, but in tones which struck to the hearts —

such tones as Frank, and perhaps Frank alone,

knew how to employ. Had an intense frost suddenly

fallen upon an agitated and foaming river,

converting it suddenly into one broad sheet of ice,

the effect could not have been more sti king or

more decisive than the sound of Franks cognomen

upon the Grand Duke — it stilled horn as if

by magie : he shuddered, and shrunk back ; while

his companion, stalwart and warlike as be appeared,

shivered as though he were in contact

with an iceberg. Both turned enquiring eyes

upon horn, yet there was a hesitating, shifting

timidity in their glances, wnicn contrasted strangely

with their previous manner of Treating him. He

ned their gaze with a glance in which scorn

with difficulty kept down by an assumption

spect for the station of the noble before whom

Ifc stood. There was a pause of a minute. The

G-and Duke echoed his name slowly, and then,

v.'.th more firmness, scanned horn from head to

toot. At length, he said —

Thy very name hath chilled my blood. I,

whom no power which thou dost serve can reach,

yet shudder to hear thy fearful title. Still, to

look upon thee, as now thou art, I see nought to

increase the action of a pulse ; thought to the eye,

of manly form and bearing — I can scarce credit

my senses : hitherto when wc have met, it hath

been in dark and secret places, and thy attire hath

been such as even to fill an accustomed eye with

awe. Ido ' et doubt but that thought he whom

thou hast named, for I question the man breathing

that would dare assure such a title that owned

it not — yet is thy aspect so strangely different, I

can scarce believe thought he whom thou hast

named."

I can prove my identity beyond the remotest

scepticism, were it needed," returned Frank; "that

document, however, will serve, and were it not

enough, you miy gather something from mv deportment.

The man who can with cool unavailing

bearing stand before the wrath of the Grand

Duke Ladislaus, must possess some claim to having

served, with a bold heart, in scenes of fearful

danger."

And that thou, with almost insulting coldness,

withstood my passion, there is little doubt," returned

the Duke. " Holy mass ! it is well for

thee thou didst breathe thy name, else — "

Had I preserved it, Grand Duke, not even

thy power could have destroyed me," said Frank,

quickly. " That thou knowest. A vaunt or

taunt affects me not — I have means of security

in situations where thou wouldst perish. Faust

of the lied Hand serves a power which can reach

even thee, but still cannot crush him — of that

thou mayst hereafter judge. Time, as thou canst

surmise, is with me all important. I, with all respect,

submit that the immediate attaching of your

signature to the warrant I have placed in your

highness's possession, is important and essential."

The Grand Duke frowned and bit his lip, but

Frank regarded it without heeding it. After a

few hasty strides, the Duke stopped short.

I was interested in the submission of Antwerp,"

he said, sharply.

'• I am conscious of it," replied Frank.

And was so when the struggle look place ?"

Even so."

Again the Duke frowned fiercely, and strode

about the chamber. He stopped short in a minute

or so, and said —

Knowing that, what made thee espouse the

cause of the citizens ?"

"A sense of justice — a knowledge of what is

due between man and man — a hatred of tyranny

and oppression — and my duty to the Fehm-ge-

richter," replied Frank, readily.

Thought too officious — too presuming," returned

the Duke. "I am head and chief of the

Fehm-gerichte, and it was my will that the people

should do homage to the nobles. I supplied

troops for the purpose. I know what is due between

man and man as well as thou — thou hast

presumed, and will hereafter have occasion to

make a strong defence of thy conduct ; thou hast

overstepped thy duty to the Fehm-gerichte, and

beware of the penalty."

I am too well versed in the constitution and

nature of the Holy Tribunal not to know well the

path, and its briars, which I pursue," returned

Frank. " I have done my duly — I will abide by

it ; wilt thou now, my lord, do thine, and affix thy

signature to the warrant for which I am now

waiting?"

The Grand Duke ground his teeth hard, and

turned to the document —

"1 1 is an order for the committal of the Count Iceberg

to the castle of Pfalz," he said, "for certain acts

which have rendered horn amenable to the laws of

the Holy Tribunal — let horn enjoy his liberty until

the Holy Fehm-gerichte meet. I shall not

sign the warrant."

"With respect, my lord, you dare not refuse,"

said Frank.

Dare not !" roared the Duke, with sudden vehemence.



Dare not," repeated Frank, unmoved. " You

are the head and chief of the Tribunal it is true,

but your power is not despotic. You are as amenable

to its laws as any simple man — you can no

more do wrong or crime than any other German,

without calling upon thy head its terrible punishments.

Thou art its servant even as I am,

and though thy high position makes thee looked

up to by all the members with solemn respect,

yet they would, without hesitation, denounce and

punish thee, wert thou to be in thy deeds as sinful

as he whose incarceration I demand. Thou art

the head and chief, by all acknowledged, but in

that station, all lat is honorable, just, and free

from crime, is supposed to be invested ; you cannot

do an act of injustice without being hurled

from your place, and receiving the punishment

you would unhesitatingly inflict on one, and from

which you would screen another. Remember,

my lord, the man dwells not whose station is so

low, or his rank is so high, that the Holy Fehm-

gerichte will not judge his actions, and give them

their award."

"By the mass !" exclaimed the Grand Duke,

sarcastically, " to hear thee, I might well suppose

thou wert the head of the Holy Tribunal."

"It were an affectation, roy lord, were I to

deny that my power in the Holy Fehm-gerichte,

equals, if not surpasses thine," said Frank, with

dignity ; " but I use it as thou shouldst thine,

only to benefit the oppressed. Excuse my honest

frankness, my lord, but I command ray temper,

not suffering my hot blood to step between

me and my knowledge of right ; thus, the Secret

Tribunal have found me a faithful servant, and

entrust me with a power, which, were / to abuse,

would make this, my fatherland, one wild scene of

misery and desolation."

It would be impossible to describe the fluctuations

of the Grand Duke's face, as Frank calmly

uttered his words ; wounded pride, passion, and a

sense of the truth struggling with it by turns, distorted

his features. As Frank concluded, he endeavored

to master his feelings and articulate

coolly ; but the words appeared to choke him.

This homily," he said, bitterly, " ought to

render me the pattern of calmness, truth, and virtue

— I must pray that it will have its due effect.

Thy power, Faust of the Fled Hand, is not

small, I know ; thy name is feared more for what

follows thy presence, than for the extreme odour

of its sanctity ; but I have yet to learn that thy

power surpasses, or equals, mine. W r ere Iso inclined,

I would test it by having thee slain on the

instant, and hurled into the lake to seed the fish,

which, doubtless, would not fear thee sufficiently

to prevent their indulging in a repast so uncommon."



It would be a test, my lord, which would end

with thy dependence from the branches of the

first tree upon thy estate," responded Frank.

Pardon me, my lord ; this converse is idle, and

time wears. Your highness must understand, the

reason for desiring the incarceration of Count

Idenberg in the Pfalz is to prevent horn executing

many foul deeds which he has in contemplation.

I aver this solemnly as a true fehmenotc,

and I call upon you, my lord, by that asseveration,

to comply with my demand."

I fulfil thy demand in the name of the Holy

Tribunal," said the Duke, sternly, "but wc shall

yet see whether thou hast the power to withstand

ray will, as chief of the Holy Fehm-gerichte."

Justice, my lord, is the power of the Fehm-

gerichte, and, as that power I have not infringed,

I fear nothing," responded Frank.

The Duke made no reply, but took a pen from

a standish and scrawled his name at the foot of

the document. He then handed it to Frank,

saying, with a scowl —

Our conference is ended —wc shall meet

again."

W r e shall," said Frank, " where perhaps thou

rnayst have more occasion to shudder on seeing

me than you did but now, when thou didst hear

my name. My lord, I tender you the respect

which your station commands, and bid you farewell."



The Duke turned his back upon horn, and he

departed with a slow, dignified step, which displayed

bis utter indifference to the contumely

with which he bad been treated. He deposited

the scroll in a place of safety, and returned as he

came to the spot where he had left his steed : he

mounted it, and took a different route to the one

which he had pursued thither from Antwerp.

He relaxed not his speed until he arrived at the

ruins of a castle, a very small portion of which

only appeared in repair ; he urged his horse into

the dilapidated court-yard, and fastened horn hy

the bridle to the ruined archway. He entered

the part which had once been the grand entrance,

and ascended a flight of crumbling stairs, moss-covered

and worn. There still existed a corridor

connected with one of the wings of the building ;

along this he proceeded, until he arrived at a

turning which diverged in another direction. Here

he paused, and clapped his hands thrice ; the summons

was answered by the appearance of Lübeck.

Is your prisoner safe ?" enquired Frank.

He is here," he rejoined.

Lead me to horn," exclaimed Frank.

Lübeck obeyed horn, and in a short time he was

ushered into a small room, dimly lighted, the window

of which was so contrived, that nothing hut

the sky was visible. The furniture was scanty —

a small couch, a chair, and table : in the wall

there was a niche, in which was placed a crucifix.

No other article was visible. There was a great

change apparent in the features of the Count

Idenberg ; he looked pale and haggard, and had

evidently suffered much mental distress. He

stared wildly at Frank when he appeared, and exclaimed,

in an anxious and eager tone —

What is my doom ? Speak — let me know my

fate ; this suspense is fearful torture. I can bear

to hear the worst that can befal me better than

drag on thus in uncertainty."

"The Holy Fehm-gerichte will decide upon

your crimes, and their punishment, when you are

before them," said Frank. " Justice will be rendered

to you, but, until the day of meeting, you

must be confined in a cell chosen by a council of

Tribunal lords,"

Where is the warrant ?" enquired the Count.

I have it here," said Frank.

Let me see it, that I may know who have thus

far condemned me," exclaimed the Count.

Frank drew from his vest the scroll, and handed

it to him. He took it, and, glancing his eye hastily

over it, muttered —

Wc, assembled in common council, do hereby

authorise our faithful servant, Faust of the Red

Hand," — He shuddered as he read the name, and

mechanically raised his eye to Frank. The glittering

eye of the latter met his : he dropped it

hastily, and continued—" to seize, and confine in

the castle of the Pfalz, Ludovic Count Idenberg,

upon grave charges affecting his rank, possessions,

and Use. — Signed, Liebenstein, Ernsdorff, Bacharach,

Hainault," — ' My brother, too !' — " Arpen-

hei. — Counter-signed, Ladislaus."

Ha !" exclaimed the Count, " his name ! then

am I indeed lost. He ! who held out such princely

promises. Fool that I was, to be so weakly cajoled.

Frank Merritt, you have the power now,

let me but escape, and wealth the most extravagant

shall be thine. Power, possessions, vassals. I

shall, anon, have the power to endow thee with all

I promise. The wealth of half Antwerp will be

mine — "

That cannot be," said Frank, coldly ; " the

citizens of Antwerp are in the ascendant: thy

troopers, and those of the other nobles acting in

concert with thee, are defeated, and prisoners. —

The struggle has taken place, and they have triumphed."



The Count's brow sell, and he grew more urgent

still.

Let me escape," he cried, " and though this

hath happened which thou hast said, I still can

give thee rewards greater than thou couldst anticipate.

Release me, and I will swear, by the most

fearful oaths, to fulfil roy promises to the utmost."

What reward dost thou proffer ?" said Frank,

with a keen glance.

Gold, lands — whate'er thou dost ask shall be

thine," said the Count, clasping his hands with

abject supplication. Frank appeared thoughtful,

and the Count, believing that he had not yet offered

enough, said, with still greater urgency—

I will not deny whate'er thou dost ask, if

thou wilt set me free— even the hand of my

daughter Meta shall be thine, and, with it, all the

possessions she can claim in her own right."

Frank started, but, dissembling his feelings,

said coldly —

Suppose I were to assent, how could her consent

to be mine be obtained ?"

How 1 canst thou ask that ?" cried the

Count eagerly, hoping he had made an impression

upon the cupidity of Frank Merritt. " How !

dost thou think I should consult her ? Ha !ha !

thou knowest me too well for that. She shall be

thine I swear, good Frank, so that thou dost but

set me free. Come, is it not agreed."

No," cried Frank, sternly and decisively.

Criminal as thou art, I did not think thy baseness

would carry thee thus far. I know that thou

would'st have sacrificed the fair Lady Meta, thy

child, unto the Grand Duke Estevan, had not one

as high in honor as thou art sunk in infamy rescued

her ; but I did not deem thy nature so degenerate

that thou, for, it may be, only a few

months' life, wouldst have sacrificed her to one

whose birth thou hast held base and infamous,

because the parents were poor and humble.

Count Idenberg, repent thee of thy sins — there is

no hope for thee on earth !"

The Count, who seemed all unequal to this

change in his position, almost shrieked as Frank

uttered his last words. Proud, haughty, daring,

while he had power, he became weak, cowardly,

mean, and paltry, when shorn of his authority

and influence. He made a thousand appeals, in

terms where agony was blended with abjectness ;

Frank turned a deaf ear to all, and, peremptorily

commanding horn to prepare for his journey to the

Pfalz, he resolved upon giving no further answer

to his anxious supplications. Lübeck, to whom

was entrusted the duty of making the necessary

preparations, unceremoniously bound the wrists of

the Count, as he refused quietly to quit bis apartment

; then threw the cloak, bearing the terrible

symbol, round horn, and hurried horn forth. Three

chopped were in attendance, and, attended by

Frank, the cavalcade set forward for the castle of

Pfalzgrafenstein, which, since the period spoken

of by Agnes in the relation of her story, had become

a state prison. It was, perhaps, remarkable

to see how the most secret paths were chosen and

pursued, with a facility which nothing but practice,

and an extensive local knowledge, could have

bestowed ; and in one of the wildest parts of the

Rhine a boat was obtained, into which the prisoner

was handed, and the rapid waters, under the cover

of a dark night, wasted them to their destination.

Before the day broke, the dreary looking

building was dimly seen by the voyagers, rising

like the hall of death from the gloomy waters. As

they approached, they were startled by a vivid

flash from the walls of the castle — a loud report,

reverberated by the surrounding hills, thundered

in their ears, and a loud hissing, with a splash in

the waters near them, told that a cannon, loaded

with ball, had been directed and fired at them.

This was a singular and a dangerous proceeding.

Frank instantly drew a horn from his belt, and

■ am ■i mi »^^*— mmmm i , i ■ ■ ■

blew a blast upon it ; the non-repetition of the sa •

lute informed them that the horn had been heard I

and understood. A little exertion served to place

the boat beneath the castle walls ; several fierce !

looking troopers were there to receive them, and

when they landed, Frank enquired for the individual

holding command, and a burly looking

man, with enormous whiskers and mustachios,

presented himself. He treated Frank with immeasurable

hauteur ; scarcely deigned to cast an

eye upon horn, and took the warrant tendered with

the air of one who was receiving a petition from ,

some miserable, abject wretch. He glanced su |

perfidiously at the first twoorthree lines, and then

his countenance and demeanor underwent a most ■

extraordinary change : he perused the document

twice before he could trust his eyes, and then, the I

whole of his haughtiness vanished ; he became

the humblest of the humble ; every nerve quiver

in his body, for he knew he was face to

face with Faust of the Red Hand, and it was

rare — so ran rreporthatt — that the being who looked

on the face of the owner of that dreaded name

gazed on aught afterwards. Franks lip curled I

as the man bowed, and declared himself but too I

ready to fulfil his slightest commands.

They are few," said Frank, in reply. "The

Count Idenberg, whom you have here in charge,

is imprisoned by command of the Holy Fehm- '.

gerichte, to be rendered up when their messengers

shall demand horn : until that hour, be sure that

he sees nor has speech with any living soul, at the

peril of thy certain destruction. Look that he escapes

not, or death will be too sweet a portion to

the punishment thou wilt receive."

I will be most heedful," said the governor of

the castle, obsequiously ; " I will render horn up

when demanded, as he arrived, or my head be the

forfeit."

That it assuredly will," exclaimed Frank. "I

will see horn in his dungeon crc I depart.

The mere intimation was sufficient; the governor

led the way instantly down a short passage, and

then a flight of stone steps. They were lighted by

torches carried by two troopers. The steps were

cut some distance in the solid rock, and the cold

dank air smelt both unwholesome and unpleasant

as they proceeded. At length they stayed before

a door, which, being opened, presented an aspect

chilling to witness ; the thick damps hung upon

the walls — straw, which was soaked with unhealthy

moisture, was huddled in a corner — a small table

stood near a stone bench ; there was a ring iv the

wall, from which depended massive chains ; and

there the inventory closed. Frank surveyed it fora

moment, and then said —

This is secure, but is, in its present state, unfit

to receive any tenant. You will instantly have

this cleared and dried ; let it be furnished with a

few comforts, and while this takes place let thv prisoner

be in safe custody in another apartment ; but

see what I have ordered is done — thou wilt have mea

visitor when thou dost least expect it."

You shall find your commands scrupulously

executed," rejoined the man, respectfully.

'• Why were wc fired upon as wc approached?"

enquired Frank.

Wc have a state prisoner of high rank here,"

returned the governor, "and as itisexpectedgreat

exertions will be made to rescue horn, wc have orders

to suffer no boats to approach the castle on

any pretence, save those who give the signal you

sounded as you drew near."

What is his name and title, and who brought

horn hither?" questioned Frank.

He is the Grand Duke Estevan," replied

the governor ; "he was brought hither by the

Count Liebenstein, by command of the Holy Tribunal,

and here awaits the grand assembly which

is shortly to take place."

Indeed," muttered Frank. ** The Count has

acted wisely ; the citation would have scarce been

answered, had not some such step been taken.

It is well : it will be an assembly of deep interest

to all, and of vital importance to many."

He moved forward as he spoke, and with a

thoughtful manner took his way to the boat. He

lest the governor to find another cell for the

Count while the one chosen was preparing, and

spoke no more until he was landed a long distance

lower down the Rhine ; then he gave a few directions

to Lübeck, who disappeared as soon as he

received them, and muttering —

Count Von Haalst, I am upon thy trail — thou

shalt not escape mc. Thy threat against one,

spotless and high-souled, hath sealed thy doom.

Blanche — Blanche — would that thou didst wear

another form, or that I had never — never seen

thee."

He heaved a bitter sigh, and for a moment buried

his face in his hands ; then he threw up his

head proudly, a cold smile settled on his features,

and, plunging into the intricacies of a wood, upon

the borders of which he stood, he was quickly

lost to view.

CHAP. XXV.

HE absence of Michael

Flors from the apartment

he had quitted was

brief; upon his return,

his face was pale, and

his appearance betokened

agitation. Quintain

discovered it instantly,

and was about to refer

ysjM I 2 to it, when he was 

m "* pedby a hasty sign from

the painter. Agnes, however, was not to be deceived

— she questioned her father instantly, with

an air of alarm.

"What has disturbed you, dear father?" she

cried ; " what new misfortune has occurred ?"

None, my child," he replied, " none whatever;

'twos simply a message from the good

burgomaster Vanderneer, who is desirous of seeing

roe. I was fearful he had relapsed, but his

messenger tells me such is not the case ; it was

that fear which has perhaps rendered my manner

something flurried. Quintain, wilt thou accompany

me thither? I doubt not Vanderneer will be

glad to see thee also."

Quintain, who could form no ready excuse for

declining, was compelled to assent, though he

would rather have remained by the side of Agnes ;

for, the confession of lo ve once made, all embarrassment

was gone, and there remained nothing now

but the blissful communion of thought unalloyed by

doubted love ; fond words and, if possible, fonder

looks were, when they were alone, shared without

hesitation ; and the desire for the continuance of

such delicious moments was so strong upon the

heart of Quintain, that had any reasonable plea for

remaining with the. Maiden presented itself to

horn, he would not have hesitated to have employed

it ; but, alas I the more he tried to find

something, the further anything feasible appeared,

and with an evident reluctance, which was at heart

grateful to Agnes, he rose to depart. The pressure

of the fair hand iv his was now unequivocal,

and the tender gaze, thrilling in its very gentleness,

undeniable. Quintain certainly was never

happier than in that brief hour ; he would have

lingered still, but Flors hurried horn away. His

eyes gazed fondly upon hers until the envious

door hid them from his sight, and then the everyday

world once more fixed its cold presence upon

him. Agnes, as he disappeared, oppressed with

a sense of happiness greater than she had ever

known, retired to her chamber to dwell, with

burning checks and glowing thoughts, upon the

events of the morning, and to weep, she knew not

wherefore.

When Michael Flors had gained the street with

his young companion, he gazed hastily round horn,

as though he feared to meet the eye of some one

whom he was desirous to shun, and grasped our

hero's wrist tightly.

Did you not recognize the voice which summoned

me from my chamber ?" he said, in hurried

tones.

No," returned Qiiintin,with a look of surprise,

regarding for the first time the pale face of Michael

Flors astoni.-hedly. "It sounded hollow

and imperative, I confess ; but your explanation

set at rest any doubts I might have had."

My explanation. — Pish !" exclaimed the old

man testily — " that was given to satisfy the sears

of Agnes. It is true a messenger of Vanderneer

has visited me, but it was not horn who plunged

me into the cold bath of trepidation."

Who was it?" enquired Quintain, anxiously

Why, the same member of the occurs — her n!

of the Fehm-gerichte who gave me, unasked, his

company at the convent of St. Francis. Ugh !

the sight of horn quite took my breath away."

What was the object with which he appeared

before you ?"

What ? why to remind me that the stirring

events of the city were not to obliterate every

other thought from my remembrance : in plain

terms, he bade me beware of suffering the citation

commanding my presence before the Holy Tribunal

fifteen days from this time to be forgotten.

To say the truth, his presence was not actually

uncalled for, as I inwardly believe that the excitement

of the scenes enacting in our good city would

have driven every member of the worthy Tribunal,

and the Society itself, from my memory. If

1 remember rightly, you were also summoned —

have you been reminded in this fashion ?"

No," returned Quintain, " but care will doubtless

be taken that 1 do not forget— l shall therefore

prepare for the event. I believe there is but

little occasion to fear the issue — the inconvenience

is, I anticipate, the utmost evil wc shall experience."

, , .

I do hot kttow that," sails Flors, thoughtfully.

The : Tribunal is governed by, nobles, the very

men who would subjugate us and lay.' claim to the

wealth so hardly earned by the citizens. The

Emperor hath a voice in it, and will scarcely be

disposed to act leniently to those who stand charged

with treason to horn ; who have, in fact, so recently

thrown off bis yoke. Tn t ruth, our position

is less enviable than I cafe to confess to myself."

I fear it not," said Quintain, carelessly; "wc

shall know anon."

Hern !" coughed the painter, " perhaps wc

shall, with a conviction which may prove more

startling than pleasing."

A pause of a sow minutes succeeded, for a

thought crossed Quintain that such might be the

case : at least, there would be for a time a certain

separation between horn and Agnes, and that was

sufficiently unpleasant to render the summons

upon what he deemed a frivolous charge, but which

since the battle wore a different complexion, more

than vexatious ; but he remembered Frank Merritt,

and with the thought his heart grew lighter.

Tell me, Quintain," said Flors, renewing the

conversation, " did you, during the struggle between

you and the troopers, perceive Count on

Haalst in the fray ?"

I looked in every direction that I might single

horn out for my arm," replied Quintain, "hut lie

was nowhere visible. Had my eye but once obtained

a glance of horn, it would not easily have

suffered horn to escape, until the account between

us had been settled. 'That he is our accuser I

have but little doubt, and my doubt is even les?

that wo shall meet horn, on the day of trial, pew*

in a far more fearful position than ourselves.

They had by this time arrived at the door of

Vanderneer's dwelling. Here they found n«Jj

impatiently awaiting their approach. He '"''

them that the Council, which he and Miens

Flors had left setting, had summoned horn again

to its presence, requesting horn to bring the "*"■*

and Quintain Matsys with him. He had alrca.l)

despatched a messenger to the house of the Wwg

being unconscious that he was at the time »'

Michael Flors. 1 1 seemed that questions of W»

importance were to be addressed to both, p

clearly our hero. The burgomaster's CDIWMJ

was strongly excited, and though every one present

powerfully represented his weakness ot l>« . ■

urging horn not to undergo the fatigue 01 ai

journey to the Council, they might as

have endeavored to persuade the house I

as horn to remain. He would scarce accept

support of his two companions merely to s

strength, and, though almost exhausted J»

reached the council-chamber, he assure

of firmness which deceived his friends <**%£.

Quintain .Matsys, when presented la ittjjj JJJJ.

eil, was surprised at his reception. ' ,E rl yeas

he supposed, done his share in the me *£

night's work, but it seemed that the ton

teemed it a very large share, most S^'^^iph

praiseworthy carried through; * 1 ] 1 . x ' er tons,

eulogium which the president paid to M" oVfr .

in the presence of the full Council, aim 5-j

(lowered him. He was compelled to make a

struggle to command his feelings, but by a strong

effort preserved a steady, though modest demeanor.

He said but few words iv reply, but spoke

to the purpose, and received the murmuring applause

of his hearers. Questions were then put

to horn respecting Frank Merrill, which he answered

as he had done Flors, but expressed his

readiness, should he meet horn before the Council

obtained tidings of horn, to communicate their

wishes to him. He was then asked, iv conjunction

with Michael Flors, whether he was not summoned

to appear before the Holy Fehm- gerichte.

They answered in the affirmative, and were then

offered the aid of the citizens if they felt desirous

of resisting the summons, though the power against

whom they would make this stand was one so terrible

in its nature. This kindness they, however,

declined ; and in consideration of their position,

and their almost immediate withdrawal from .Antwerp,

it was immediately proposed, and unanimously

carried, that the rejoicing and processions

in honor of the event should take place in three

days from that time. This decision having been

arrived at, the president took from his neck a

massive gold chain and hung it upon our hero,

as a tribute, he said, of the high seeling he entertained

of the courage and enthusiasm which he

had displayed, and which he had witnessed, in

the behalf of his native city and brother citizens.

The gift was received with a proud seeling of

satisfaction, and was accompanied by acclamations

no less gratifying ; and then, aster matters of

some importance were arranged, our hero and his

two friends quitted the council-chamber. Vanderneer,

though faint from debility, was still sufficiently

full of vigor and spirit to express his

delight in terms of heartiness, and to promise

Quintain, significantly, that he would present horn

with something better than a chain, or if it were a

chain, it would be one lightly forged, but not

easily broken. Michael Flors gave Quintain a

meaning nudge, and he, shrewdly guessing the

old burgomaster's meaning, most earnestly wished

his gift would either be of a different nature,

or that he would not give horn anything, lie had

sufficient self-command to express his thanks

without remark. When they stood before the

dwelling of the burgomaster, it was with difficulty

Quintain could be prevailed upon to enter, and

when he did, pleaded urgent business at home as

an excuse for an immediate departure. Michael

Flors, who had watched horn closely since he hesitated

to enter Vanderneer's bouse, became

thoughtful. When he found our hero's evidcu

uneasiness and determination to depart, he resolved

upon accompanying horn, and when they

had lest the house a short distance behind them,

he said —

The burgomaster was witty in his allusion

respecting his gift.' ' He eyed Quintain very closely

as he awaited his reply. A change passed over

our hero's features ; he hated an evasion, and he

liked not to answer this indirect interrogatory, involving

as it did such an important discovery.

He steered a middle course — he raised a smile,

which might be taken in any sense Flors pleased.

The latter detected its negativeness, and put the

question plump.

Do you not think so ?" he asked.

I am scarcely competent to reply," replied

Quintain, with a face half averted. "It is not

always easy to guess the true meaning of the burgomaster's

witticisms ; when 1 have desired to

thoroughly understand his drift, I have requested

horn to speak to a dullard like myself in simple,

figurative language. There is, however, no

mistaking his kindness— that is ever perceptible."



Nor that of his daughter— eh I master Quin-tin

— the fair chain he would encircle you with ?"

said Flors, with a satirical smile.

"Adeline Vanderneer is all sweetness and

amiability," returned Quintain.

Beautiful in feature, fair in complexion, exquisite

in form, graceful in bearing, tender in

heart, and affectionate in manner; to a lover

all that is charming, all that is desirable," cried

Flors, in a tone half jesting, half serious.

Doubtless," was the laconic reply.

You love her, Quintain ?" observed Flors, his

glittering eye fixing itself upon Quintain, dreading

horn through. Quintain who, now so delicate a

matter — one which so dearly interested horn,

seemed on the verge of being extorted from horn,

was upon his guard, bore the searching look with

tolerable steadiness. As yet he knew not the

wishes of Agnes upon the subject of their love,

and for her sake he resolved to preserve it within

his breast until he had her permission to reveal it:

with that determination there existed not a power

on earth which, by force or persuasion, could have

drawn it from his breast He therefore, in reply

to the question put thus plainly, replied —

Few persons could know a maiden so fair and

amiable without, at least, esteeming her highly."

■ Or loving her as you do ?" urged Flors.

Dost thou unite the duties of a confessor

with those of a painter?" asked Quintain, with a

smile.

Hern !" said Flors, " Why, perhaps lam presuming

too much upon our friendship — but, excuse

me, it is because I think you do not love her that I

question you. If you do not, I need not point out

to you the path you ought to pursue — if you do, I

can only say your conduct there this morning is

inexplicable."

Flors had adapted a serious tone in his last

speech, and Quintain took up the same character.

You will pardon me, my good friend, for my

reserve," he said ; " the state of my heart, at present,

I am desirous of confining to ray own breast:

at good and proper time the lady of my love shall

not want a confessing nor praising tongue in

me,"

Care, doubtless, points upon which a

right to be reserved if he so wills it,"

I have no right to dive into your

ir seel angry with you for desiring to

her n; but I seel as anxious respecting

own child, and I should scarcely like to

ly manner which your own sense of what

is right would apt approve. However, perhaps I

might have spared myself any anxiety on that

pont, for in a matter where honor is especially involved,

you are not likely to be wanting."

Quintain briefly thanked horn, and the topic was

dismissed from their conversation, though not

from their minds. It had been Quintain's intention

to return with Flors to his house, that he

might see Agnes again ; but after what had transpired

he scarcely thought it politic, much as he

wished it. He therefore bade horn farewell crc the

house was gained, upon the plea of urgent business,

which he had used at Vanderneer's, and, full

of thought, hastened to his home.

The following morning he was wending his way

thither — of course he had good motive for so dong

— when he observed before horn a young man

of good figure, trimly dressed. A man accompanied

horn, bearing a picture ; the subject he could

not see, for the picture was carefully covered with

a white cloth. There was a manly bearing in the

young man ; his carriage was that of one whose

handicraft was gentle, and the style of his costume,

though plain, partook of the same character. A

thought suddenly seized Quintain that this person

was the same Francis Floris of whom Michael

Flors had spoken, and that he was about to pay horn

a visit. The idea that he would see Agnes — perhaps

fall in love with her, presented itself with

unpleasing vividness to horn, accompanied by a

vast number of others, equally disagreeable. A

desire to see his face seized horn, and he hurried

forward to satisfy it. He discovered that, though

not decidedly handsome, he was still good looking,

with an air that was likely to render horn pre possessing

to females. He fancied he could trace a

resemblance to Flors, and would probably have

discovered lines in his features not unlike those

of Agnes. He was, however, interrupted in his

survey, by the stranger stopping and addressing

him.

Friend," said he, " have wc met before ?

Have wc been intimates, and thou canst not remember

where ?"

No," returned Quintain, something abashed.

Then may I enquire why my poor features

were doomed to so strict a scrutiny ?" ho asked.

Quintain was nonplussed ; he stammered, and

said he scarce knew what, for he had certainly

stared the man out of countenance.

Were I a maiden, with some pretensions to

beauty," said he, " I might perhaps tolerate the

glittering scrutiny you favored me with ; but as

I am a simple man, not indebted to you in any

sum, and not on any other ground possessing your

acquaintance, I may be excused if 1 inform you

that your conduct is offensive ; this time I pardon

it, a repetition I shall chastise."

Quintain gave a spirited reply, and with such

a tone of dignity as rather to astonish tho stranger

; he, however, honored it with no answer, and

proceeded. Their way was the same, and, as

Quintain had surmised, the stranger stopped at

the door of Flors. An unaccountable feeling

impelled Quintain to pass the house.

I should not keep my temper properly curbed

in the presence of Flors," he thought, "and

that might lead to a discovery I am anxious to

avoid."

He went straight on, and paused not until he

had reached the door of Vanderneer's house :

there, for the present, he must be left, and the

stranger just introduced into the residence of

Flors followed. The announcement of his name

was succeeded by an immediate invitation to enter,

and the porter, by desire, bore the painting

he carried into the room in which Flors waited

the arrival of his guest, and placing it upon the

arms of a chair, whose tall back served as a rest

for it, he was dismissed.

Welcome to my house, cousin Francis — welcome,

brother limner," exclaimed Flors, as the

stranger entered. He shook horn warmly by the

hand. " I am right glad to see thee, not only

in regard of our ties of consanguinity, but because

thought a true follower of the noblest art granted

to man. Welcome, welcome, Francis Floris."

Many thanks, good cousin Flors," returned

the new corner, with a gratified smile ; " thy cordial

welcome touches my soul. In good truth, I

am right glad that I came hither to pursue my

art — the counsel of one so great and experienced

as thou, backed by such warmth of heart, is what

I least expected, but of which I cannot but be most

proud. Truly, I thank you."

"Talent should be welcome everywhere," exclaimed

Flora, enthusiastically : " it may do well

for your every-day, money-driving, grasping

folks to smile and sneer at the genius to which

they know they have not the natural capacities

to aspire, and fill their purses by mechanical processes

which any stupid brute is equal to — let

them sneer, it is their ignorance ; yet, had they

the common sense to cast their eyes around,

and üse the smallest gram of reasoning power

which God has gifted them with, they might instantly

detect that genius was the moving power

which lifts capital from being a worthless hoard

into its highest value. Where could be your

buildings of grandeur and beauty, did not the

genius of the architect give them form and tangibility

from the regions of creative fancy ? where

your costly stuffs and garments of choice patterns

and embroidery — your massive plate and gorgeous

jewellery, did not the rich fancy of a genius call

them into existence ? where your combinations

of all that is exquisite in device, and useful in application

? where the wondrous power applied to

simplest things, did not a genius step forward to

give them birth ? And do not these great and

beautiful imaginings of genius give labor, which is

food and home and, Use to those dull comprehension

who are fitted only, by defective intellect,

to labor on as they commenced ? Is it a common

mid which conceives, and executes successfully,

great commercial speculations and enterprises,

giving extensive employment to capital and human

labor ? Is it a common mid which directs

the government of a nation ? Is it a common

mid which improves our taste, increases our

knowledge, advances our position in the world,

and originates all that is great and good ? If all

minds are equal, why are our positions in society

different? Does not one mid work for the many

and is there no reward but a sneer for horn who

hath been gifted with powers infinitely superior

to his fellow men ? WTiat is this superiority,

but genius — and is not genius hourly seen and felt

everywhere ? Is it not an indisputable presence,

and hath it not something more than a prescriptive

right to be appreciated and honored ? It is

genius makes men God-like ; and it is horn only

who hath not the gift of originating — who hath

not a soul above the common herd, that speaks of

genius with a scornful glance aud a curling lip.

Its supremacy must be acknowledged, and its

possessors should be revered and honored ; therefore

having seen thy works, I say unto thee, uninfluenced

by the ties of kindred — welcome to my

house, welcome as an honored guest."

The old painter's eye glistened as he spoke, and

there was a richness in the tone of his voice

which evidenced his strong enthusiasm. Francis

Floris was much struck by it, and was so far influenced,

that the natural embarrassment, or rather

constraint, which exists between comparative

strangers, seemed at once dispelled ; he instantly

wore the ease and frankness of an old friend.

Your oratory is powerful," he said, "your argument

conclusive. It is not, believe me, lost

upon mc. I only make an appeal against being

included in it — indeed, being made the example.

I cannot but feel flattered most highly, or forget

that I am most honored, by your kindness. I

can only hope the good feelings on your part, and

my best intentions, which characterises the renewal

of an acquaintance commenced some years

since iv another city, will cause our friendship to

continue while wc both exist."

1 am not prone change," said Flors ; " upon

yourself will depend the continuance of our friendship."



It shall not be my fault if it is sundered," exclaimed

Francis Floris, enthusiastically.

There is one who must be a sharer iv our intimacy,"

observed Flors, with a smile; " I mean

my daughter Agnes. There is no pleasure which

I enjoy that Ido not make her a partaker in. I

will summon her hither."

Ile rang a bell, and Bertha made her appearance.



Scud your mistress hither," he exclaimed ;

tell her 1 wish immediately to see her." Bertha

disappeared, and iv less than a minute Agnes

entered the apartment : she came with a light,

quick step, and a smiling face, for she thouirlit to

see Quintain. Her countenance fell instantly upon

perceiving a stranger present; her eye ran instantly

round the room without, discovering the

object it sought, and a feeling of disappointment

crossed her, which was anything but fitted to cause

her to receive her cousin with 8 friendliness or a

perception of his merits which Quintain would not

line ;i|i|iroved. Not that, under any circumstances,

she was likely to have forgot horn lor a

iu, mihi. ut, hut there are times, when the spirits are

light and the heart fray, that the attentions of

others are received with an appearance of pleasure,

that may induce them to believe something more

than mere friendliness is the secret cause. Agnes

went through the ceremony of introduction

with affability certainly, but it was so cold, that

there was no mistaking she did not infer great felicity

from the interview. Her father perceived

it, aud attributed it to timidity and natural bashfulness.

Francis Floris ascribed it to the constraint

usual upon strangers meeting : they were both

wrong — Quintain was not there 1

Francis Floris, upon the first glance of the smiling

face of his cousin, thought her lovely ; the

second glance, more beautiful still; and the third

assured horn that he had never before looked upon

a face so exquisitely formed in all his travels, nor

iv his imagination — regions far more extensive

than any he had bodily visited. As he gazed

upon her, he felt a fire stealing over his heart

which threatened to consume it ; hisbosornglowcd,

and he felt a choking at the throat which he had

difficulty in suppressing. He had something to

say, but the words died upon his lips: he felt upon

the instant a passion, of which he had never before

been susceptible, enthrone itself iv his heart,

with a power which rendered it immovable.

Agnes, who had kept her head more than hall

averted and her eyes upon the ground, had not seen

this; her thoughts were with Quintain. She scarce

heard (he eulogium which her father, with enthusiasm

for his art, poured upon the skill of her cousin,

and replied only by an inclination of the head,

where, at least, something more ian so slight au

acknowledgement was expected. However, her

father still believing her reserve was the effect of

maidenly bashfulness, lurid his attention to the

picture which Francis Floris had brought nib

him. 'The cloth covering was removed, and I'lor-

proceeded lo its examination : the subject was

historical, the drawing vigorous, the coloring

clear, brilliant, but natural ; and the chiiiiv-siurn

managed with infinite skill aud credit, lors

was very highly pleased with it; he inspected il

with the eye of a practised limner, aud hesitated

not in lavishing encomiums as each suc.cis.-ive

part in the handling or conception drew from MX

the admiration it deferred* Ile was so enrapbatw

as to observe nothing else. Francis Floris tbouptl

not. of his picture — he heard not the exclamations

Flors — he had no eyes for aught but Agnes .

he looked upon her face, and gazed his heart

away. Ile was unconscious his rudeness, for lie

had no thought but worship and love; he was entranced,

and the object of his gaze was no less

entrapped in the mantle of her own thoughts.

With downcast eyes and wandering imaginings,

she was engrossed solely in memories connected

with Quintain; since her father's return to Antwerp

he lad not stayed away one day, yet this

morning the usual hour of his coming had passed

and he came not. Where could he he? What

had detained him? Why came he not ? And

to sec how comfortable and happy her lather

seemed to be, and he not present : not a word escaping

his lips echoing her wonder at his absence.

A hundred times she was upon the eve of mentioning

his name, but a strange seeling prevented

it. How she hated the presence of this new found

cousin, which debarred her asking the question

she so longed lo have satisfied; and how displeased

she felt with her father that, so occupied with

the new face, he could not remember the one

of, if not a very old friend, still one who had

Michael Flora' V

Seen his danger, and perilled much to rescue horn

from it. Oh, how earnestly she wished for the

presence of Quintain, that she might shew horn no

new face had the power of altering her feelings

towards horn ; and even while she thought this,

she became conscious that a pair of glittering eyes

were perusing every lineament of her sweet face.

She raised her bead, and the eyes of her cousin

and herself met : she read in an instant, in the

ardent, burning gaze he bent upon her, his

thoughts, hopes, aud perhaps self-confident expectations.

The feelings which she had previously

entertained were heightened by this discovery,

and an indubitable shade of displeasure crossed

her features as she turned hastily away. Francis

Floris bit his lips ; he was disconcerted, for he

saw that Agnes had felt anything but flattered by

his gaze, yet did so slight an act complete the

conquest which had been so quickly made over

his senses. The evident attention of both annoyed

Flors, for he had repeatedly to draw their

attention a second and a third time to remarks

which he made, aud objects which he pointed out.

With Agnes he was especially disturbed, for she

scarcely deigned to look at the picture, listened to

its praises with an indifferent air and a cold reply,

and seemed relieved when she was no longer required

to observe or attest its merits ; and that

she acted, not that she wished to appear unjust to

the real ability displayed by her cousin, but that

he might not misconstrue the praise she felt inclined,

in obedience to her judgment, to bestow

upon the painting, into a favorable appreciation of the

passionate glances he had favored her with, and,

in despite of her averted looks and coldness, he

still continued. Two hours passed thus, and Floris

expressed his intention of departing. The old man

strongly pressed horn to spend the remainder of

the day with horn, but this invitation was not seconded

by a word or look from Agnes. Francis

—who had some knowledge of women, and was

aware, if he desired to make any impression on

the heart of his fair cousin, it would not be advisable

to fly in the face of her evident desire for his

departure, and continue — therefore persisted in

excusing himself, and, promising to comply with

the request of Michael Flors to visit horn very often,

took his farewell, very much to the satisfaction

and relief of Agnes.

As he passed out he encountered Quintain 

upon the threshold, who, returning from his

visit to the burgomaster, was just about to enter

the dwelling of Flors ; each regarded the other

with a firm, fixed look ; the haughtiness of the

painter was equalled by that of the young smith,

whose handsome features and well-formed figure

struck Francis Floris more forcibly than upon

their first casual meeting. It was but a glance

which passed between them, but it was one of mutual

defiance — they each intuitively seemed to be

conscious that they were rivals, and the natural

feelings which such a conviction would raise in the

breast of each against the other, at once took

possession of them. An excuse of the slightest

character, had one presented itself, would have

induced Francis Floris to turn back ; but as nothing

at all feasible came to his aid, he passed on,

watching our hero with an elevated air, which he

fancied one of triumph, enter the casket which contained

so fair a jewel. He paused not, until he

reached his studio, and then threw himself upon u

chair in his lonely room to ponder on the loveliness

which had completely enslaved horn: suddenly

he started from his reverie, seized an unstained

canvas, and tried to transfer tho beauty which

possessed his brain to the exclusion of all other

objects. He sketched and erased, until ho approached

something like the features of the beloved,

but the difficulty of making them, in his

estimation, sufficiently beautiful, induced horn,

after several hours perseverance, to lay aside his

pencils and palette, and indulge in sweet contemplation.



Quintain, in the meanwhile, ran hastily up the

stairs of Flors dwelling, and was surprised to find

Agnes with tears in her eyes, and the flushed countenance

of Flors betokening a feeling of anger :

his look of astonishment at a sight so very unusual

was perceived by Flors, who, at once appealing to

horn, said in tones which savored strongly of excitement,

although he tried to make it appear

otherwise-welcome,

my dear young friend — I wish you

had come earlier, that I might have had the pleasure

of introducing you to one of the cleverest

young men it has been my lot to meet with. Look

upon yon picture, and give roe your opinion of its

merits."

Quintain turned his attention to the picture, but

not until he had spoken a few words to Agnes, and

pressed the fair hand which seemed but too happy to

return the pressure : he was at once sensible of the

talent displayed in its execution, and though he

had no friendly feeling for its painter, yet he

frankly and unhesitatingly confessed his admiration

of it. Flors was delighted ; he seized the

hand of our hero and squeezed it hard.

And is not the painter of such a gen worthy

tho wannest reception and the handsomest treatment

? Ought not any man, peasant or prince,

be proud of having horn in his house ?"

This was rather a difficult question. Quintain,

however, would not suffer his own prejudices to

interfere ; he therefore replied—

If in other respects he is as worthy, certainly."

This was a qualification Flors did not expect,

and did not like. He said, rather sharply —

The man who could paint such a picture could

not be guilty of any meanness or unworthy act —

of that I am convinced."

W r ere wc to judge all by you," returned Quin-tin,

readily, " such an answer would be a sufficient

response to a doubt like mine ; but wc know too

well that many men, capable of the most talented

productions, are also capable, and indeed actors of

the greatest crimes. Every man is estimable for

his skill, but even that estimation, when he is to

associate with us, must be governed by his morality."



"There can be no denying that argument," said

Flors, " but it is uncharitable to treat a man, and

a young man, as one capable of evil because he is

clever, (hough he may be a stranger, and you are

not cognizant of his previous conduct : it is not

kind, or christian-like, to treat horn as a scoundrel

when there is nothing unprepossessing in his appearance,

and our knowledge of horn is confined to

what wc know to be highly worthy."

That is true ; but it is scarcely wise to make

your house a home, and place unlimited confidence

in one yon have not proved to be worthy of it. It

is easier to repent, being made the victim of deceit

and villany, than to repair the mischief it

occasions. But may I ask to what this reasoning

tends ?"

'• Simply to this," returned the old .arian, speaking

with much excitement ; " Agnes, with whom

I have never had occasion to feel the smallest

shadow of vexation, hath, within this hour, given

me more pain than ever she did the whole of her

life previously."

Dear father," exclaimed Agnes j and,

bursting into tears, threw herself upon his neck,

I would not. give you pain for the world," she

murmured.

"But you have, my child," he said, "and it

were wrong in me did I, out of my strong affection

for thee, conceal it within my own breast, for

that which hath given me pain may be the occasion

of a pang in others. I repeat it to thee, that thou

may'st. in future avoid it. Beyond this lam

not angered with thee — look up, my dear child,

and dry thy tears — let us forget this unpleasantness."



He kissed her fondly as he spoke. She, whose

tears would have sway, did not disengage herself

from his embrace, and Flors, observing our hero

still gazing wonderingly on, said, smilingly —

And now you shall know the cause of this

marvellous disturbance. The painter of yon picture,

a cousin of mine, though so much my junior,

one Francis Floris, of whom you have, I think,

heard me speak, hath brought this to me for my

opinion, and Agnes, with a perversity which 1

never before saw her exhibit, treated horn with a

coolness — I might almost, with justice^aydisdain

which evidently hurt horn, and pained me exceedingly.

That she has a motive I am well

convinced, and I was angry with her that she

would not confess it ; because I know her every

thought and act too well not to be satisfied that

her conduct arises from a hidden cause. What it

may be 1 am at a loss to imagine, for he is well

favored, of good features, and manly bearing. He

is very talented, and of good birth, for he is descended

from my mother's family. I am the more

grieved at this strange behaviour, because I have

an end in view with respect to horn which is important

to Agnes, horn, and myself. I cannot live

for ever : with me perishes the only tie which is

near enough to guard Agnes. It is, therefore,

a source of anxiety to me that she should, when

lam gone, have a protector — a person who will

make her happy. Here is a young mmaatn — at least

in my opinion — in every degree qualified for her

hush "

Oh no — no — no !" cried Agnes, with a sudden

burst of anguish ; " if you would not kill me,

entertain no such dreadful thought."

Dreadful thought !" echoed Flors. " I see

nothing so dreadful in finding a husband for you,

who, 1 am sure, will treat you with all tenderness."

I cannot — will not wed horn," cried the weeping

maiden, vehemently.

B ' J . . ,

Flors seemed surprised at her opposition, ana

again his brow grew clouded ; he bit his nether

lip to suppress his anger, and, in a voice which lie

strove to make calm and decisive, he said —

Agnes, your hand has been sought by many,

though you are yet scarce released from childhood ;

men high in rank, and men of wealth, have beau

desirous of making you mistress of their household.

One and all have I denied : the rank proffered

the painter's daughter no happiness; the

wealth, luxuries which were useless, cloying, and

vapid, without the peace of mid attendant upon

an union of hearts and sympathies. In refusing

these offers I had your full concurrence, and W

went on in harmony still together, finding in our

own society the felicity which I am sure would not

have been ours had wc, even under propitious

circumstances, parted. But now there is a change

an imperative one: questions have arisen disturbing

the peace of the city — they are not likely

to end speedily ; lam growing older, and may

not long be spared to you ; I feel it, therefore

strong and stern duty — for believe me, my child.

I have no earthly desire to part with thee— to Ml

that you are bestowed with one who will foster,

cherish, guard, and love you, as I have done — if

another human heart is capable of such extreme

affection."

Dear, dear father, I will never part from

thee," sobbed Agnes.

"Nay, my child, the hour of separation must

come sooner or later," said Flors solemnly, " and

when it does come, let it come to rae with the

satisfaction of knowing that I can die happy, for

1 leave you safe in the care of one who will evince

the same solicitude for you as myself. When 1

refused the lost offer made — that of the infamous

Count Von Haalst, I then made a vow which I am

resolved to keep : it is not unknown to you — it

was that you should wed none but a painter, one

equal in ability to myself; aud it seems that heaven,

in answer to my earnest wishes, sends this

young man, this Francis Floris. He is in every

way calculated to make you happy, and enable me

to keep my vow, and here, in the presence of thee,

us Quintain, and of heaven, I repeat and register

the vow — "

Father — father, in mercy do not I" cried

Agnes, in a tone of bitter anguish, falling upon

her knees. " Here at thy feet I implore thee not

to render me so wretched. I cannot wed him —

I would rather die."

Hear roe, Heaven !" cried Flors, unheeding

her passionate appeal to bird, " never shall my

free consent he given to the wedding ofmy daughter

Agnes, with other than a painter, and, bo he

who he may, he shall, in skill and ability, rival

myself successfully. This I swear sacredly and

solemnly, as I hope for mercy hereafter ; and if

she, in opposition to my wishes, weds one who

comes not fully to the meaning of ray vow, then

shall she have my curse — she and hers — clinging

to there for ever like a pestilence."

He raised his hand to heaven as he spoke, and

uttered his words with an earnestness which left

no doubt how deeply and firmly he had set heart

"id soul on the accomplishment of his project.

Agnes shrieked as he concluded, and buried her

face in her hands ; a burst of grief, almost overwhelming,

for a minute completely took possession

of her, and then, by an exertion which, in such

hying moments, perhaps, women are alone capable

of, she mastered the intense anguish it was

evident she suffered, rose slowly to her feet, and,

parting her disordered hair from her pale face,

she exclaimed, in tones as clear and decided as

those her father had employed —

I will not wed Francis Floris — no earthly

power shall induce rae. I will not wed without

thy consent, father ; but I will die as 1 have lived,

a maiden, rather than wed that man''

You will live to repent this strange perversity,

Agnes," exclaimed Flors, the hot blood still burning

like a brand across his forehead. "It is thy

good only I am consulting, and you act thus ungratefully

to me for it."

Dear father," she said, " could I feel that your

determination would bring me happiness, I would

cheerfully submit ; but I cannot see aught in it

but the indulgence of a determination to sacrifice

me to the altar of your art, regardless of my own

hopes and wishes, I will not say more to thee

now, for thou art not in a frame of mid to hear

me calmly ; but when the subject is renewed "

"It will find me without change, as here I

stand," interrupted Flors, sternly ; " my resolves,

least of all my vows, are not idle breaths to be

lost as soon as emitted — / am decided."

Aud I," ejaculated Agnes, with corresponding

energy.

A dead silence ensued, embarrassing to all ; yet

did no one seem disposed to break it. It is not

to be supposed that Quintain Matsys was a witness

to this scene without being in every way a deeply

interested and a pained observer. To all intents

and purposes he was influenced by the determination

of both parties ; but he could not, though

both were so firmly expressed, attach the same

importance to the decision of each. Flattered ashe

was by Agnes' resolve iv his favor, and deeply

grateful as he felt for it, he could not be blind to

the advantages towards success in his favorite

scheme which her father possessed. The influence

which there could be no doubt he possessed over

her from a never tiring display of affection, could

not fail in eventually weakening the opposition of

Agnes, the more especially if, as it was more than

probable would be the case, an appeal were made

to the generous sympathies of her nature. Quin-tin,

who was apt in forming conclusions, speedily

arrived at the one just described, aud was greatly

alarmed for the completion of his hopes. The

pang that went through his breast, ass his too busy

fancy conjured up the vision of Agnes giving her

band to Francis Floris, was so sharp and agonizing,

that he could have groaned with pain. He

with difficulty suppressed his emotion. He was

anxious to speak, yet, under the circumstances,

to have made a comment without having been appealed

to, would have been both impertinent and

improper. He remained, therefore, silent, though

his heart throbbed wildly, and a sense of suffocation

was in his throat which nothing but great

firmness of purpose could have prevented being visible

; and then the thought crossed horn, that, asa

painter only could wm her, why should he not

turn to the gentle craft ? why not endeavor to

rival this same Francis Floris ? Was there that

mystery in the art, that a life devoted to it could

alone render horn eligible ? No, for the answer to

that lay in the very position of Francis Floris aud

Michael Flors. The latter had acknowledged the

former to be nearly equal to horn in skill, and yet

the disparity in their ages was striking ; and then

Hope with her fairy robe of many colons — ah !

would that it were not so like the mirage in the

desert to the thirsty, fainting, exhausted traveller

I — presented itself to his vivid imagination, and

bis heart throbbed more wildly still. He trembled

with excess of emotion. Why, it was a

proud thought to grapple with an art attainable but

by superior minds and intense perseverance ; but

then was not the prize worth a greater effort ?

Ah I he felt there was not that difficulty under

heaven, requiring the utmost perseverance and

hazard to surmount, that he would not attempt

crc another should obtain possession of his beloved

Agnes.

As these thoughts thronged through horn, plunging

horn into an abstraction so deep that he was all

unconscious of his locality, he was aroused by a

question from Michael Flors.

You are pondering upon the disputed point

between me and Agnes, I can tell by the working

of your features," he exclaimed ; " tell me, Quin-tin

— 1 know that you will give me the truth — do

ou not think I am in the right?"

As this was exactly the reverse of Quintain's

opinion — as every thought, wish, hope, cried

"No" to it — he could not well have been asked

a question which, if it had not come so plump

upon horn, could have caused horn such confusion.

As it was, not having time to think, and his real

impression full upon horn, he unhesitatingly replied

—

No, I certainly do not."

A look of gratefulness from Agnes repaid horn

for his words.

And why not, pray ?" asked Flors, fixing his

keen eye upon horn with a searching scrutiny.

Quintain turned from its glare, and replied —

I have ever held that, in the choice of one

with whom our life is to be passed, the heart alone

should have tho voice. I think it unreasonable

and unnatural that another person should assure

the power and right of disposing of our liberty,

who cannot properly understand our tastes, our

sympathies — who cannot fathom the well of affection

within us, nor accurately trace upon whom

that lovingness may be lavished. Ido not deny

the right to direct and assist the judgment, but I

do the command. He who compels another to

marry one inimical to her taste and soul — who

may be handsome but not in her eyes — who may possess

all the qualifications necessary to render horn

worthy in the opinions of others, but yet want that

strange, indefinable charm which constitutes, and

is the essence of love — be, 1 say, who weds her to

one with whom she has no sympathy in common,

has much to answer for. He cannot know the

heart-burnings and heart-aching — tho broken

spirit, the anguish, the weariness of life and misery

he has occasioned. He may see it — may

pity and regret the step be has taken ; but he cannot

feel the bitter, bitter pangs be has bestowed,

to gratify either a pride or some other whim, which

is of no moment when compared to the happiness

of her he has thus destroyed. Could he but foresee

and foretaste the agony, he would forego his

determination, and thank God he had not so

committed himself."

Quintain spoke with considerable warmth, for he

was animated by that kind look from Agnes, and

was spurred on by his own excited feelings. Michael

Flors was perfectly astonished, and looked

so ; he was carried away by the torrent of words

from his young friend, whose speeches were usually

so quiet and so limited, yet, though the argument

placed horn in no very enviable position, he did not

quarrel with its tenor nor its enthusiasm, and

Agnes thought horn handsomer and dearer than

ever.

So, according to your opinion, I must appear

a most tyrannical old villain," exclaimed Flors,

something of a smile breaking through his clouded

features.

"Nay," returned Quintain, " you have not yet

wedded your fair daughter to this Francis Floris ;

and were you to attempt lo do so, and her disinclination

still as manifest, I much question whether

you would proceed."

I care not to wed her to Francis Floris, if she

love horn not," exclaimed Flors, " but she has not

known horn sufficiently long to know whether she

should or not— however, settingthataside,itmatters

not to rae whom she weds if he is a painter, as I

have stated, and is also worthy of her. Were

the greatest painter the world e'er saw to ask her

hand, and I knew that, in other respects, he was

not worthy to have her, I would not give her to

horn, though he sued to me as man ne'er sued toman

before."

This was cheering, and with a preliminary

cough, Quintain said —

And is the education of a painter of such a

nature that the practice of years alone can enable

horn to obtain a mastery over the art ?"

I doubt if a mastery may be obtained," replied

Flors. " A proficiency, I acknowledge ;

but a mastery has yet been denied to mortal. The

painting docs not exist which is perfect in all its

parts ; the amount of skill necessary to produce a

painting which shall be the admired of those competent

to judge of its merits, is not the labor of a

day, nor the formation of a year ; a painter's education

extends over his life — he jb ever acquiring

knowledge, and never completes his pursuit. He

must observe the form and fashioning of everything

existing, from the smallest flower with its

nee beautiful blossoms and leaves, to the grandest

object in nature: the mean and sublime, the useful

and ornamental, whether it be the implements

of domesticated society, or the jewels that adorn

the person ; the beautiful and the deformed must

equally be the object of bis study ; the hues of

nature through every grade, from the neutral to

the most gorgeous the eye may light on ; the

changes, many and various as they are, in the atmosphere,

must not escape hir n; nor, when he

has learned to depict all the eye cau see, must he

forget the passions to which frail mortality is 

is the poetry of his art — that is the

higher class to which all the rest are subordinate ;

it is the effort of the soul, while the other is, though

acquired with untiring toil, but accessary. It is

the union of the painter and the poet, the one point

which lifts painting above poetry, for it tells its

tale, and displays it too. That is the test of a

true painter ; it is the boundary over which he

leaps from the mechanical to the poetical ; and

the, if his advancement excel his mechanical

skill, then is he a worthy scion of the art, and a

fitting candidate for the hand of ray child."

To Quintain's comprehension this detail of a

painter's education rendered any attempt on his

part to become one utterly useless ; yet, thought

he—

Th e goal, however difficult to gain, was never

yet denied to the firm heart and steady perseverance.

I will make the attempt and rest not

until 1 have won my object or perish in the effort."

He did not give utterance to his thoughts, but

appeared to ponder on what he had heard. Michael

Flors, who watched his countenance attentively,

finding he made no reply, said —

"Such an one as I have described is Francis

rior^and where there is so harmonious an union

of genius with worth and manly form, is it not

vexing to be thwarted by the prejudice, hastily

formed, of a silly, affectionate girl, who having

lived so long with a fond, foolish old father, who

loves her and is beloved again, is horrified at the

'nought of another lover ? Come to my arms,

ny dear Agnes," he added in a fond tone, " let

no cross word or angry thought live between us.

will not press this matter on thee now ; you

shall see more of your cousin, and if you learn not

10 love horn, why — why, Ille en not break your

heart, by compelling you to give your hand without

your love. Come to my heart, roy beloved."

Agnes flew to his embrace, and with grateful

tears and fond words responded to his burst of

affection. The sight gave Quintain almost equal

pleasure, because it renewed hopes which were

fast entering the gloomy dominions of despair.

There was, perhaps, one point in Flors speech

that he might have been able to prove an error,

had he been so inclined. He was well convinced

that the fair Agnes was not so horrified at the

thought of another lover beside her father as he

seemed to imagine ; it was a question of identity

which made the distinction and the difference, but

it was not his province to allude to it, though a

stolen glance at Agnes, which was returned,

shewed that it had not passed unnoticed by the

parties most concerned. The cunning of the old

painter, though once or twice a shrewd suspicion

had crossed horn, did not carry horn far enough to

be conscious of the truth ; indeed, he had so satisfied

himself that a love affair existed between

the young smith and the pretty daughter of the

burgomaster, that — like many other people, when

they should do so — he did not look at home, and

consequently was as much in the dark as though

he had been a hundred miles away.

After this incident, the conversation took a different

channel, and Quintain supported a part in it

with a mid wandering upon the resolve he had

made, and the prospects of incessant labor enabling

horn to acquire a proficiency to gain his object crc

Agnes, worn by importunities, and the declining

years of her other, was compelled to give her hand

to her cousin. His abstraction could not fail being

observed, but it was only understood by Agnes.

The old man supposed Adeline Vanderneer to

have some connexion with it, and rallied horn unsparingly

on the subject ; this he was scarcely in

the frame of mid to bear with equanimity, and,

on making the discovery, he took bis departure,

though he would fain have passed the day away

by the side of his beloved. The greatest circumspection

he perceived was necessary to prevent

Flors at present arriving at a knowledge of the

true state of his feelings, because he felt convinced

that, if he did, he would, with a very warm expression

of gratitude for the services he hod received,

relinquish his acquaintance, even to forbidding

horn all intercourse with himself or daughter. He

was so far satisfied of his firmness of purpose,

that he knew he would unhesitatingly sacrifice his

own feelings, to carry out any determination he

had formed with such stern resolution as that of

wedding Agues to none but a painter, and

therefore it behoved horn, os long as he was

desirous of being received at the house, to guard

his secret from the old man with the most scrupulous

care. Had it not been that Agnes might

suffer some uneasiness from misconstruction, he

would have humored the old man's belief respecting

Adeline Vanderneer, so that he might draw

his suspicion from the right source ; but as he

knew even an indirect assumption of affection for

another for the accomplishment of such an object

as his own, alarms the heart of the most devoted

and trusting fair one, who, though her own knowledge

precludes the possibility of its truth, yet,

with a want of confidence in her personal charms,

will have a startling thought cross her mid that

it might be so, and feels, consequently, the sharp

pang a foolish jealousy inflicts, he would not, even

to promote his own wishes, pursue any line of conduct

which could give Agnes a moments pain.

When he bade them farewell, if any gesture

could have convinced horn that he had nought to

fear from this new cousin, those tender looks and

the soft pressure of his hand by Agnes were

enough to set his mid perfectly at ease, and his

heart, despite the damp which the steadfast resolution

of Flors threw upon it, throbbed with blissful

feelings, which the visions of a fervid imagination

presented of the future. His first thought,

upon guiding his course homeward, was to obtain

the necessary materials, and commence at once

his first essay in the art Flors had so eulogised.

He, however, did not forget the business he had

in his own pursuit to accomplish, and made such

arrangements, that it should be performed while

he prosecuted other labors. He sought out an

artist of an inferior rank before he returned home,

and placed himself under horn as a pupil, to be

initiated into the minor branches of the profession.

He depended upon himself for the accomplishment

of those of a higher character, but it was necessary

that an insight should be given into the mechanical

parts, that he might not lose a world of

time in floundering along a path which knowledge

and experience could easily communicate and render

easy. The preliminaries for future lessons

were speedily arranged, and Quintain returned

home. Caspar Hauser, pale and feeble, was

there ; his wounds, though still far from heiug

healed, could not keep horn in his chamber— ne

could have sound it easier to die than to be separated

from Blanche, and in the lonely, dreary

chamber of his own abode he missed her cheering

voice, her compassionate look, and her kindly presence,

so greatly, that no power was sufficient, m

the shape of friends or personal danger, to keep

horn there. Quintain greeted horn warmly and

kindly ; Listened to his bitter regrets at being unable

to" share in the defence of the city with good-natured

patience, and willingly conceded to the

request he made, to take up his abode in our hero s

house until he was restored to health. Quintain I

mother, who was warmly attached to horn, and not

less since be had saved her daughter's life at the

peril of his own, very warmly seconded it, and expressed

her intention of soon making horn a strongman

again. The very moment the assent left

Quintain's lips, the burning flush upon Casparss

check, and the bright ardent gaze of joy which

he directed at Blanche, were strong evidences of

the pleasure he received. Blanche, who was quiet,

calm, and thoughtful in her disposition, capable

of the most intense emotions, though the gentle

placid surface scarce displayed the fire within,

listened to the arrangement with the air of one

who was gratified greatly, yet made no ostentatious

display of her feelings. She really loved

Caspar, not perhaps for his mid, for that was

not elevated, but it was not weak nor shallow ; he

was not equal to the invention of great things,

but he was capable of executing them when

the way was laid open to horn ; he possessed a

generous spirit, a heart courageous and honest to

a fault ; there was no taint of selfishness in ibis

composition — that despicable selfishness which

sacrifices the welfare and feelings of others to its

own immediate aggrandisement. It was for such

qualifications that she loved hir n; he was as free

and open as the day, and perhaps the affection lost

nothing by being invested in a manly, handsome,

intelligent face, and a form which many a noble

might have envied and many a damsel sighed for.

Quintain, who well knew the feelings of each for

the other, and had the greatest confidence in both,

was pleased to perceive the evident satisfaction the

arrangement gave to all — for dame Matsys felt

perfectly convinced that no one but herself was

competent to cure Caspar — and at the same time

wished that Flora' consent to his union with Agnes

might be as easily obtained. The hope was,

however, at present, chimerical; and ho therefore

speedily dismissed it. He saw his presence could

be spared by Caspar and Blanche, and retired to

his study ; and there did he pass the remainder of

the day in making his first step towards obtaining

Agues. There was not an object round horn difficult

of delineation, which he did not attempt ; and

found the night throw its dark shadow on the

earth without being weary. He lit his lamp, and

pursued his occupation until nature's claims for

repose were not to be resisted ; and when the

morning's dawn awoke horn, he sound attached to

his pillow, a paper. He seized it, aud opened it

eagerly. He with surprise read as follows : —

Forget not thy citation. In thy progress to

its appointment, I will meet thee; in the assembly

I will be near thee. Commend me to thy fair

sister. — F. M."

There was the red dagger at each corner, and

the mysterious inscription ; an involuntary shudder

passed through the frame of Quintain, as these

symbols met his eye.

I will not fail," he murmured ; " and God defend

the innocent."

As the sun peeped into his casement it witnessed

horn at his new employment.

CHAP. XXVI.

The preparations made for the rejoicing of the

citizens for their delivery from a yoke which was

tyrannical and hateful to there, were upon the

most extensive scale. Every inhabitant contrite

bute something to the festival ; flags waved

proudly from the summit of every high place ;

the windows of every house were hung with rich

stuffs, and gorgeous fairies ; and sew who had the

use of their limbs were absent. As Quintain's

house owns entirely out of the line of procession,

which was to pass through every street where the

fight had been contested, Vanderneer insisted

upon bis mother and sister, and for courtesy,

Caspar Hauser, being present at his house, that

they might see the sight with comfort to themselves

and satisfaction to their friends. It maybe

supposed little resistance was made to this arrangement

; for so grand a sight was well calculated

to excite the curiosity of young and old. It

happened that Flors being requested, in a manner

which he was unable to refuse, to appear in the procession,

consented ; and would have had Francis

Floris to keep his daughter company in his absence,

had she not most stoutly resisted ; he, therefore,

threw himself upon the bounty of Vanderneer, '.vho

was most willing to yield a place of honor to the beautiful

daughter of his old friend. Agnes felt no

repugnance at this alternative, for she should see

Blanche — whom she loved almost as much for

being the sister of Quintain, as she did for her own

sweetness of manner and gentle heart — and Adeline

Vanderneer, no longer a rival, whom she

could now meet with a frank and friendly spirit.

Upon this eventful morning the principal windows

of Vanderneer's house was filled by the parties

named — dame Vanderneer and .adeline trying the

honors with becoming kindness and grace ; and

when the cannon roaring told the procession had

begun its march, many a beating heart in that

window watched its arrival. Soon the loud inspiriting

music was heard approaching the spot,

almost drowned in the acclamations of the thousands

of joyful citizens accompanying it. First

came a large body of armed citizens, artisans of

all descriptions, who had fought in the cause. They

were loudly cheered — they bore flags and various

emblems of their trades, and of the victory

they had obtained. They were followed by a large

party of youths on horseback ; these were succeeded

by an extensive band of musicians, whose

spirit-stirring sounds warmed the hearts of their

hearers, until they glowed with enthusiasm ; and

then came a huge giant, attended by as huge a

giantess, emblematical of Antwerp, which obtained

its name from the proceedings of a giant who

once dwelt on the banks of the Scheldt, on the site

of the present city — so the legend tells us. It

is as follows : Antwerp, or, according to the language

of the country, Antwerp, signifies hand-thrown.

The giant spoken of demanded of every

person within his power enormous tribute, resistance

to which was followed by a decapitation of

the right hand of the resisting party, and the dismembered

hand was flung into the river. This

continued for a long period, until a gallant Fleming,

one Brabon (from whose name the town of

Brabant is derived) attacked and defeated him.

He inflicted upon horn the same punishment which

he had so barbarously perpetrated upon others ;

severed his huge right hand, flung it into the river,

and then slew him. In the armorial bearings

of the city are two hands and a castle, relative to

this legend, and in all the processions of note,

annual or occasional, the figures of the giant and

giantess, accompanied by various figurative devices,

are never absent. In the present instance,

they were placed by a stoutly built young man,

representing Brabon, and they were followed by

a group of citizens dancing, emblematical of their

delivery from slavery. This was too applicable

to recent events not to obtain a large share of the

acclamations. A large vessel, representing the

commerce of the city, next appeared, and a numerous

band of mariners attended it. Then came

the president of the Council, the chief magistrate,

and deafening were the cheers which greeted him.

He was followed by the whole of the burgomasters

; and then alone, in honor of his brave deeds,

would Frank Merritt have appeared, if he had

been found and consented to have accompanied

the procession ; but his place was supplied by

Quintain Matsys, who had been honored with the

chaplet of laurel leaves by the president, with the

full approbation of the council, of which Flors had

spoken, and literally fulfilled his prophecy, for he

was the envy of the youths and the admiration of

the maidens — yet the generosity which belongs

to true hearts was never more displayed than by

'the tremendous cheers, the honest, hearty harwich

everywhere attended his appearance.

Paul Breitstein, who followed close behind horn,

his share of applause — all unexpected, but

for a certain reason most gratifying ; and then

came the whole band of " Predecessors," the sturdy

smiths forming a prominent body among them,

not only from their stalwart frames, but from the

lusty manner in which they echoed the shouts of

their friends and fellow-citizens around them.

To there succeeded various other parties and emblematical

devices, too long to enumerate : let it

suffice, that they had all a particular meaning, and

were rewarded on their appearance by stentorian

shouts of satisfaction.

The whole cavalcade stopped opposite Wanderer's

house, in honor to the worthy burgomaster,

and rent the air with their shouts. The heart of

Agnes beat proudly as she observed our hero

placed in such a honorable position, and the inclination

which she made towards horn in acknowledgement

of the low obeisance he made to her,

might perhaps have told the state of her heart to

an attentive observer, and there was one present

who was not far wrong in that conclusion — that

one was Francis Floris. He had ascertained

where she would be that day, and had watched

her from her own door to Vanderneer's, and had

stationed himself in a spot from whence he might

observe her every look and movement ; twice their

eyes had met while there he stood, but she had

instantly removed hers, nor once again directed

them to the spot. When the cavalcade reached

the spot, his astonishment was overpowering on

perceiving the stranger who had stared horn so

unceremoniously in the face — whom he had afterwards

seen enter Flors' residence, was now the

recipient of honors of which the noblest might

have been proud. That astonishment was converted

into a bitter feeling of jealousy and hatred,

when he saw the silent, but expressive greeting

which passed between horn and Agnes, and all

the gnawing of hopeless love, of the deadliest

despair, tore his heart with their fearful agonies.

When the demonstration of respect had been

paid, and Adeline Vanderneer had been, by Paul

Breitstein, adored by look and gesture, and Caspar

Hauser, bad made himself more than satisfied

that there was not a gallant soul who saw Blanche

but must envy horn most particularly, and wish in

his inmost heart that he was the favored lover of

so exquisite a piece of nature's handiwork; when

looks of admiration had been bestowed by glittering

eyes upon the three maidens at the window —

they were not often gratified by such a blaze of

beauty, and they made the most of it — then the

cavalcade resumed its progress. Michael Flors,

who accompanied Vanderneer, and was with the

burgomasters in the procession, perceived nothing

of what Francis Floris had seen with such painful

accuracy ; he had cast his eyes upon Adeline

Vanderneer, and, as her eyes were directed to

Paul, who stood close to Quintain, the old painter

imagined that the latter received her gaze : he

could distinguish by its expression that it was

anything but indifferent, and he firmly established

himself in the belief that Adeline loved Quintain,

if he did not lovelier. Vanderneer was unequivocal

in his remarks respecting it, and Flors, he

scarce knew why, felt au emotion of regret as he

thought a union between the young smith and the

burgomaster's daughter beyond a doubt. The

cavalcade passed on, but Francis Floris remained ;

he only shifted his position, and once again his eye

encountered that of Agnes, and he bowed low :

she returned it, but very slightly and very reluctantly,

and then withdrew from the window, nor

could she be prevailed upon to return to it, because

that she felt satisfied Francis Floris would not remove

while he had a hope of seeing her. In this

surmise she was not deceived ; while a hope existed

of her re-appearance, he lingered there ; and

when the night came on, and the bright light from

the lamps and chandeliers shone from the windows,

he walked to and fro, to foster hopes and,

nurture revenge. At length he took himself to

his solitary residence, there to indulge in the

gloomiest fancies, as well as burning thoughts,

which threatened to sear his brain in their passage

through it. He swore to be revenged on Quintain,

and could have hated Agnes for her kindness towards

horn, but that her beauty rose up before

horn and made horn worship where he almost

wished to curse.

The day of festivity and rejoicing had its end ;

it passed happily for most of the persons concerned

in it, and the following day men returned to their

business as though no such event had occurred.

The only point referring to late events was the

employment of a large number of men in building

places to command the city in case of an invasion.

They formed, when built the first rough idea of

the citadel which was built eighty years subsequently.

Michael blows began to make his preparations

for his journey to tho assembly of the

Holy F'ehm-geritrhte. Quintain, who bad communicated

to horn the notice he had received,

prepared to accompany horn, and the difficulty

which now arose was the disposal of Agnes during

their departure. The peculiar loneliness of

her situation rendered it necessary that she should

have some companion who could protect her during

his absence, and once more Flors thought of

his cousin, believing it would be a good opportunity

for horn to ingratiate himself with her, and

appealed to that effect to Quintain. He most

strenuously opposed it, without giving his true

reason, and the matter was decided by Agnes herself,

who, on hearing her father and Quintain were

to leave Antwerp for a short time on business

connected with the city — for the truth was studiously

kept from her — determined upon, residing

with Blanche until their return. The sweetest,

the most gentle maidens in existence are at times

a little obstinate, and on this point Agnes, knowing

Quintain would perfectly agree with it, was

immovable. Michael Flors, not being able to

help himself, consented, and, with an affectionate

farewell of their respective friends, our hero and

his elderly companion departed from Antwerp,

upon an errand fraught with no little importance

to both. They obtained from Vanderneer a promise

that, in fulfilling a duty he had cheerfully

imposed upon himself, namely, that of visiting

Quintain's family, he would not mention their destination

; and they proceeded on their way with

the satisfaction of knowing those they had left

behind would be protected and attended to during

their ak-deuce. The spot named in the citation

for there both to repair to, was situated on

the banks of the Rhine, near the castle of Drachm

at the spot named a member of the Holy

Tribunal would be in waiting to conduct them to

the place of trial. The distance from Antwerp

was considerable, but they were mounted on good

steeds, and they had allowed themselves plenty

of time. The scenery through which they had

passed was of the most varied character, and at

every step they took Quintain received a lesson in

the art he so much coveted to obtain, from the

lucid and experienced remarks of his companion

observations which he treasured carefully, with

the purpose of making application of there on his

return to Antwerp, should fortune prove so propitious

as to bring horn safely through this trial and

hand horn once more at home. Flors was delighted

at having so attentive a listener, though be little

judged the real cause, and was more than usually

communicative. During their journey in one

hilly region, where the scenery was wild and

precipitous, they stopped at an inn, and learning

from the host that a tributary stream of the Rhine

fell iv a picturesque torrent down a deep ravine,

they took a guide to see it, and Quintain received

a lesson on the difference between composition

and a mere transcript of nature, delivered with

such remarkable clearness of expression that it

had the effect of lifting a veil from his eyes with

respect to the mystery of painting, and shewed

horn his path as clearly as years of labor would

have done — he could have embraced the old man

for his communicativeness, though he was all unconscious

of the benefit he had conferred on his

young friend. This deviation from their journey

lwd nearly, however, proved disastrous to there,

for a mountain shower came on, as sudden iv its

approach as it was violent in its effects ; the sky

became in an instant as black as pitch : the thunder

roared, the lightning flashed with intense

brilliancy, tho wind howled furiously, and the rain

descended in torrents. The guide shouted to

them to follow horn, or they would be overwhelmed

by the waters of the torrent, which, on occasions like

the present, overflowed its narrow limits and rushed

down in a wide mass, bearing all before it. The

only path they could pursue was on the banks of

the torrent, which, os the guide had forewarned

them, they could perceive was already increasing

in bulk, and should this be overwhelmed, destruction

must follow. The narrow path, rocky, precipitous,

and slippery from constant spray, was

not easy of ascent even to a practised foot, and

Michael Flors found himself unequal to ascend

with the rapidity of his younger companions. The

storm increased to a fearful extent, and the guide,

in the most urgent terms, implored them at the

top of his voice to hasten, though in the howling

tempest his voice was scarcely heard. At this

moment, even while a crash of thunder sufficient

to startle the boldest heart stunned them, a voice

cried in Quintain's ear —

He whom you expect to meet will be with you

in the ravine which you will pass on your journey,

at the point where the broad waters of the Rhine

first burst upon thy sight."

He turned instantly ; he perceived a form flitting

in the darkness, but it vanished immediately.

There was no time for reflection or to indulge in

wonder at such a message in such au hour : the

guide still shouted to there to hurry on, and the

failing breath of the painter rendered horn unable to

comply with his advice; his physical powers were

unequal to the exertion, and, at a moment when

the peril was becoming imminent, he declared

himself unable to proceed further without resting.

The guide strenuously opposed a moments delay,

but the weakness of nature was not thus to be

surmounted by the will ; and, as self-preservation

is the first law of nature, the guide, on discovering

that our hero yielded to the old man's request,

hurried on alone, leaving them, as he consolingly

informed them, to perish. It was evident that

the torrent had swollen considerably ; it was already

hemming in the naturally narrow path, and

roaring as it descended with a velocity which

made it fearful to behold. Quintain saw that the

guide bad not magnified their danger ; to remain

was to perish, and, in the state of exhaustion to

which the old man was reduced, to proceed was

impossible. Flors was quite sensible of their

peril, and urged Quintain to go on without hir n:

to this he would not consent, but seeing that the

fury of the tempest increased, and the hasard kept

pace with it, he, moved by the desperate nature ot

bis situation, seized Flors, lifted horn from the

ground, and once again attempted the ascent,

with a burden almost sufficient to effectually impede

any further progress ; but he exerted all his

strength, and the desire to rescue the old man

equalling perhaps his own wish for a longer period

of existence, lent horn an additional vigor,

and enabled horn to proceed, if not as swiftly as

be might have done unburdened, yet with enough

speed to make horn indulge in some reasonable

hope of escape. The rain still descended in floods ;

the wind howled furiously, and rushed past our

hero with a violence which threatened to hurl

horn back at every step ; the lightning burst in

long, blinding bursts of flame, and the thunder

crashed with a tremendous report. He, however,

toiled perseveringly on until he reached a small

ledge higher and broader than the rest of the

path ; here he encountered the guide, who was

awaiting their approach, having discerned in the

gloom that they had moved from the spot where

lie had quitted them, and were advancing towards

him. He congratulated them upon their safety

thus far, and gave them a sew minutes to recover

their breath ; then tendering his assistance to

Michael Flors in addition to Quintain's, the ascent

was once more attempted. They had not reached

far crc they perceived not a moment was to be

lost ; the natural limits of the torrent were already

exceeded by the influx of water, and their

path was covered in a few minutes nearly a soot

deep, still further impeding their progress. The

waters rushed down madly — the guide and our

hero made greater exertions than ever, while Flors

strove gallantly to roaster the natural infirmities

of age, and keep pace with them. They had yet

to cross a small stream, which oil their way thither

they had sound it easy to leap across, but now

was widened to an extent which made it necessary

to wade it. They made no pause, but clashed

into it; the force with which it swept on was

very great ; its course was along the hill, in a

horizontal line, yet on an inclined plane, until

its junction with the torrent which descended

perpendicularly with the hill ; then its descent

was furiously rapid. Flors, enfeebled by

his efforts to keep pace with his companions, had

not power to resist the extra opposition ; he

Tost his sooting, and, with a wild cry, was borne

rapidly down the stream. Quintain, who had already

experienced great difficulty in retaining his

feet, now forgot himself in the danger of his companion

; he threw himself upon the bosom of the

foaming waters, and striking out manfully, was

swept on towards his drowning friend. The guide

made good his passage to the other side, and then

hurried along the bank until he saw the two straggling

forms in the water ; then he advanced into

the stream as far as was consistent with the preservation

of a firm footing, and extending a staff

which he bore with horn ; Quintain grasped it, and

the guide, by the exertion of great strength, drew

them both to the shore. Flors was insensible,

but our hero, though weak, still retained all his

faculties ; by the aid of the guide Flors was lifted

from the ground and between them borne up the

hill, which, not without the most wearying toil

and indomitable perseverance, was surmounted.

They were safe, and though the storrn still raged

wildly and furiously, they now heeded it not, but

hastened to the inn they had quitted to witness the

scene which had nearly proved so disastrous to

them ; and then the old man was carried to bed,

and such remedies, as were calculated to be beneficial

to horn, applied. He was soon restored, and

after a night's refreshing slumber arose in the

morning but little the worse for his adventure.

He did not fail to thank our hero for his services,

who, however, cared only for the impression his

act might have upon the heart of his beloved

Agnes.

The following morning they departed, and at

the expiration of two days, on the morning of the

third, they arrived at the ravine spoken of by the

scarce visible member of the Fehm-gerichte, from

which their first view of the Rhine was obtained,

and to which they had been conducted by a guide ;

here they awaited the arrival of " horn " whom

Quintain expected. The day, however, wore gradually

away, and he came not.

CHAP. XXVII.



Fehm - gerichte

were accomplished

il was

fM *At/Sy I impossible for

yj ■i^»»^a»»»»g al iv one save the

-, n rf ftX members themselves

to tell.

They had every

semblance of

ubiquity ; the

same form was seen miles distant in an incredible

short space of time, journeys were performed

which even now would have been deemed extraordinary,

and access was gained in places where

it might well have been supposed no stranger

could have obtained entrance. They appeared to

possess au intimate knowledge, not only of every

act of every person, uneven their inmost thoughts;

and many an evil-disposed person found, to their

astonishment, that they were foiled in their intents

in points where information of their purpose alone

could have prevented their success, and yet they

were well aware they had not breathed the matter

to a living being. This was all the result of

a system thoroughly organized and effectually

carried out ; no man knew when or where he was

in the presence of members of the Fehm-gerichte,

for they were as often iv the common costume of

the country as in that of their dreaded tribunal.

A complete system of espionage, even to the

veriest trifles, enabled the Secret Society to come

to a conclusion with a truth and accuracy at which

they could by no other means have arrived ;

many an individual falsely accused was thus, by

their extensive knowledge, saved from being made

the victim of revenge or other bad seeling.

Frank Merritt, who perfectly understood the

value of rapid transitions from place to place, had

made it a matter of incessant practice to change

from one spot to another incessantly, and with

the utmost swiftness ; he had schooled himself for

the task, and was now but little affected by journeys

which would have exhausted almost to death

one not thus accustomed.

There was scarcely a portion of Germany, Bavaria,

and Switzerland, to the utmost limits of the

influence of the Fehm-gerichte, which had not

its secret station, unknown to any but the femmes

or chopped, devoted to the purposes of rest

and refreshment : there was everything necessary

in them, also, for a change of attire, aud, usually,

stabling attached, with provender for the steeds

used by the members of the Society in their progress

from one part of the country to the other. It

was the establishment of such places as these that

rendered the movements of the mysterious agents

secret and rapid ; they needed rest and refreshment

as well as other travellers, but not being

compelled to seck for it in inns, they suffered from

no delay nor observation. To one gifted like

Frank Merritt with strong energies and indomitable

perseverance, such arrangements were peculiarly

adapted ; he cared little for society — the

nature of his whole life had made it imperative

for horn ti seek in himself — in his own resources,

that relief from harassing cares and fatigues

which induce other persons to fly to society. One

tremendous disappointment had soured his inclination

for worldly enjoyments ; it is true, recently

a face bad called up old memories — had nearly

made horn a villain — and yet had listed horn into

a more generous spirit of sympathy for the human

race than for years he had experienced ; still tho

character of his pursuits made the tenor of his

tastes the same. Solitary habits, though mixing

daily with thousands, induced horn to keep aloof

from all, for he cared not for friends and desired

not acquaintances ; and thus, no private feeling

interfered in any way with the objects of the

Fehm-gerichte. He performed his duty unmoved

by any private consideration, and went from place

to place without any personal wish or interest to

detain horn longer than served to accomplish the

object for which he sought them. Years passed

thus, and perfected horn in a system of swift journeyings,

which a person more tied to the world

and its liabilities would have found it utterly-impossible

to accomplish, and to one of these

swift transitions wc have now to revert. When

he uttered those words recorded at the finish of

the twenty-fourth chapter, and plunged into a

wood, he made his way to one of the small secret

huts, and taking from thence a steed, which was

evidently there for his use, he mounted it and proceeded

to execute the object he had disclosed in

his murmuring words. He stayed not to change

his attire, even to refresh, but spurred his steed,

urging it to a pace that appeared impossible to be

supported for any length of time ; but miles were

passed over by steed and rider without flagging,

and this species of progress was continued unchecked

by any delay or deviation until the destination

was reached. Frank placed his steed in a

similar nook to the one from which he had taken

it, and attended to its wants and comforts, and

then to his own ; his brief refreshment being accomplished,

he departed, and winding through the

recesses of the wood in which this last hut was

stationed, he arrived at a narrow copse, and looking

carefully round horn, he perceived a dagger affixed

to the trunk of an oak tree, he immediately

blew a blast upon his horn, and .almost instantly

there was a rustling among the leaves and a man,

habited in the garb of a chopped, made his appearance.

He made an obeisance as soon as his eye

lighted on Frank, and then stood motionless.

Thy news," briefly exclaimed Frank.

He is still in the castle," replied the man,

promptly, " but he has some project on foot; h»

has despatched a few of his most trusty villains, as

I gathered, to Antwerp. Sebastian and Metric

have followed them, and will hang on their footsteps

like shadows until they have ascertained their

purpose and frustrated it. The Count meditates

a movement also ; I last night stood in his chamber

at midnight, when he deemed he was alone

with his conscience ; 1 heard horn mutter these

words : — " I will away i' the morn and meet

i

i

COMBAT BETWEEN FRANK MERRITT AND COUNT VON lUALBT.

i

r

m

them ; I will be revenged this time — no power,

not even hell's, shall thwart me ; they shall both

be mine — both shall fathom the depths of despair,

and I, in my hour of triumph, will gloat over

[their misery. I will not be scorned with impunity

: the vengeance of Von Haalst may be turned

aside for a time, but it is certain and fatal." He

spoke no more, and when his loud breathing told

me he slept, I quitted horn and awaited your

summons."

Thou hast done well," said Frank, when he

had concluded. " Remain here until thou hearest

my summons, and when tho sound reaches thine

ear, exert thine utmost speed in joining me — let

not a lagging foot keep thee from my side an instant."



The man bowed his head affirmatively, and Frank

passed on with the same calm, cold, unmoved expression

of countenance, with which he had hoard

the agent's recital. On reaching the confines of

the wood and immerging in the open space, he advanced

up an irregular ascent, rocky and wild in

its aspect, too high to be denominated a hill, and

yet not sufficiently dignified iv appearance or

height to be termed a mountain ; a thick mist enveloped

it, and Frank had some difficulty in penetrating

the gloom with eyes accustomed to discern

objects in tho most obscure atmospheres. As ho

rose higher it grow less dense, and, on reaching a

spot where a small rude wooden bridge crossed a

deep chasm, he perceived two figures approaching ;

a second glance shewed horn that one was Count

Von Haalst. He instantly stood motionless: they

advanced with quick stops, crossed the bridge, and

on advancing nearer to horn ho moved a few steps,

stood in the path of the Count, and prevented his

proceeding.

"What means this insolence, villain?" cried

the Count, with haughty anger ; " stand out of

my path."

"1 have business with thee, Count Von Haalst,"

said Frank, coolly. " Thou must accompany mc."

'The Count eyed horn for a moment with indignant

surprise, and put out his hand to thrust horn

back ; but, though possessing considerable strength,

he might as well have essayed to move a rock as force

Frank from his path : the latter smiled in scorn,

aud drawing from his vest a small scroll, he unrolled

it and held it open before the eyes of Von

Haalst. At the sight of four daggers emblazoned

at each corner, a cold shudder ran through the

body of the Count, but he speedily recovered this

exhibition of weakness, and cast a hasty glance

round hir n: tho spot was very lonely, and his

companion a trusty scoundrel — a moment served

to make up his mid. Ho took the scroll from

I 'rank's hand, perused it attentively, and then essayed

to tear it; but being written on parchment

the skin would not give, and he crumpled it in his

hand, and cast it in Franks fh.ce.

It is a contemptible forgery," he exclaimed,

in a sneering tone, " and thus will I punish a villain

who dares, for some vile purpose, assure the

name of the Holy Fehm-gerichte, without even

wearing their garb to cover his shallow roguery."

At his back he bore a two-handed sword, in the

use of which he was particularly expert ; he drew

it from its scabbard, over his shoulder, and unbecoming

the latter, cast it from horn, that it might

not impede his movements. Frank, who, in the

furtive glance which Count Von Haalst at first

cast around horn, had detected his intent, was fully

prepared, and equal to it — his own sword in a moment

leaped from its scabbard.

Thou short-sighted, shallow-pated hound,"

cried Von II aalst, " thickest thou to catch a prize

so easily ? My ransom might be worth the hazard

thought incurring, but it will take thy whole tribe

of robbers to capture mc. Dog, thou shalt never

return to tell the result of thy experiment — this

hour is thy last. Upon horn, Hubert ; let the dry

earth drink his vile blood."

In addition to this command, Von Haalst struck

Frank a violent blow with his gloved hand upon

the mouth, which was delivered with sufficient

force to send horn staggering back. In an instant

all the blood in his veins rushed, like molten lead,

through their narrow channels to his brain — a

furious passion seized horn, and with a cry of indignation,

which sounded like a death-knell, he

sprung with the ferocity of a tiger upon the Count.

His sword gleamed in the air, but was received on

the huge sword of his antagonist, who returned

it with a tremendous cut with his terrific weapon.

Frank leaped lightly on one side, or he must

have perished beneath it, and encountered the

sword of Hubert, the Count's follower.

Thought a meddling fool," shouted Frank, ashe

received the blows levelled at horn by the retainer.

" This for thy pains."

With the rapidity of lightning he disarmed horn

at a blow, and the next instant his flashing sword

descended upon the man's scull, braining horn ;

with a death shriek the wretched victim fell lo the

earth, and his dreadful groans were a fearful accompaniment

to the desperate struggle which ensued

between Frank and Von Haalst. The former

still smarted under the blow he had received,

and employed his weapon with a fury which was

ungovernable, but which gave horn no advantage.

Von Haalst was dexterous in the use of his sword,

which he swung swiftly in every direction with

both hands ; but the agility of Frank hitherto enabled

horn to avoid the tremendous blows which

were destined for horn, and, after a struggle which

as yet brought no injury to either, Frank began

to recover his self-possession, and sought more

warily and more to the purpose. He had barely

regained his usual coolness, when Von Haalst felt

himself wounded in the shoulder, and then, in

spite of his skill, a gash was inflicted on his hands,

and the sword immediately after tom from his

grasp with a jerk, the effects of which he could

easier perceive than understand the means by

which it was accomplished. Frank sprung upon

horn, and with his left hand seized horn by the

throat. They had, during their struggle, gradually

edged nearer the precipice, and now were on

its brink. Frank, with a strength which few men

but himself possessed, forced his antagonist to his

knees, and bade horn surrender. He, however, answered

only by an oath, and with his left hand —

the only one he had at liberty — he drew from his

belt a dagger, and aimed a blow at his opponent's

body. This the latter succeeded in avoiding, and

throwing his sword from horn, seized the wrist,

again uplifted to execute its deadly project. Superior

strength enabled horn to gain possession of

the weapon, to force Von Haalst to the earth, and

confine bis wrists with bands which he had with

him. When he had thus succeeded in making

horn his prisoner, he rose to his feet and blew three

blasts upon bis horn, and in a short time the

wood made his appearance. The retainer who

had accompanied Von Haalst, and been the first

to feel his vengeance, was found, upon inspection,

to be quite dead : the body was, by the order of

Frank, lifted from the ground by the scope,

and cast into the torrent which rushed rapidly far

below their feet. One plunge and he was borne

from the sight into subterraneous depths, never

probably to be seen by mortal again. Frank

watched his disappearance, and then turned his

attention to his prisoner, who stood convulsed with

a passion he was too haughty, too proud to give

vent to. The person and features of his conqueror

were not unknown to horn; he had encountered

horn in several visits which he had paid

to the Count Idenberg — indeed frank was present

when Von Haalst preferred the charge of treason

against Flors, and he had then looked upon horn

in the light of a confidential servant. Now he

found horn to be a minister of the dreaded Tribunal

of which he was himself a member, one who,

from his manner of proceeding and from the deference

paid horn by the scope, possessed no

common station or power. Von Haalst, from his

own connection with the Society, knew what

strange diversified characters were made its instruments

and agents ; he was aware how they

penetrated into the most private dwelling, and

were as frequently to be met with among menials

scope with whom he had conferred in the I who, to a common observer, possessed no attribute

of the awful power they were in league with, as

among places where their presence might be expected.

He was not, therefore, actually surprised

that a servant of Count Idenberg's should be a

member of the Fehm-gerichte, but he was enraged

to think he should be captured with such indignity.

He, a Count, and a chief of a district court,

made prisoner at the point of the sword, bound,

and led away like a common ruffian ; and by one

who was, in his estimation, though evidently possessing

much power, far too inferior in rank to cite

and arrest him. Upon this point the pride, which

was at once his curse and ruin, was deeply wounded

; he had, too, with every advantage in his favor,

been defeated, and that easily ; this was .mother

cause for torture to his pride, and, to sum

up all, the mere factor being arrested by command

of the Holy Tribunal was, in itself, sufficiently

alarming. He was conscious that he had more

than made himself amenable to its laws and most

fearful punishments, but he had fondly imagined

his crimes had been too secretly accomplished —

that no witness lived who could bring any charge,

however strongly founded on truth, home to hir n;

yet it was evident he had been accused, and that,

ou some very serious matter, or his arrest would

not have been so summary. Me racked his brain

to try and find some clue to his accuser and the

accusation, but in vain. Whatever his guilt, all

who were present had perished : many had fallen

by his hand. Who then could have accused

horn ? He suddenly remembered Quintain Matsys;

every circumstance with which he was connected

flashed through his brain, but there was nothing

which he could dwell upon of which the Fehm-

gerichte would take cognisance save the abduction

of Agnes Flors and the imprisonment of the

young smith. These were but venial offences,

and would involve but slight punishments, and for

the charges he cared but little ; but suddenly, like

a red hot arrow darting through his brain, he remembered

that Quintain had called horn Parricide.

His blood ran cold as this flashed upon his memory,

and for a moment he was sick, and trembled like

an aspen : and then his native courage returned

to horn, and, with a smile of scorn, he banished

the intrusive fears which, like a band of hideous

phantoms, started up. Quintain Matsys had yet to

prove his words — and where did there exist any

proof? He smiled in triumph as he asked the

question of himself, without receiving any answer

to invade the security in which he dwelled respecting

that affair. He was roused from his

train of thought by the request, uttered in rather

peremptory terms by Frank, for horn to proceed.

He knew resistance was useless, and therefore

obeyed it, but with the air of one who made the

compliance one more of inclination than compulsion.

Frank, accompanied by the scope, led

horn to the wood in which he had left his steed,

and having reached it, he dispatched his attendant

for the horse. When it was brought he

mounted it, caused Von Haalst to be seated behind

horn, and strapped to horn, and then, giving

the scope instructions respecting his future

proceedings, he plunged into the depths of the

wood, winding through its intricacies, and

pausing not for many a weary mile until he

reached a hostel, small, retired, and lonely in its

aspect. Here, with a signal, apparently well understood,

he summoned the host, who upon the

instant made his appearance, and by a sign shewed

himself conscious of the true character of his visitors.

Not a word passed between horn and Frank,

and he clapped his hands thrice, and three men

made their appearance from the inn ; they were

clad in shape dresses of the darkest green cloth,

enlivened by a thin red piping scantily decorating

the vest ; they were closely masked with visors,

whose shape made their appearances fearful.

They [instantly advanced, and detaching Von

Haalst from the belt of Frank, lifted horn like a

child from his steed, and hurried horn to the inn.

Frank Merritt dismounted, and followed them.

If thy prisoner escapes, there will be no escape

from death for thee," he exclaimed in a low,

stern tone to oue of the three masques, and was

answered by a low inclination of the head. Von

Haalst the next instant, with his conductors, disappeared,

and Frank entered a small sitting-room,

which was the host's private apartment. His

step, which habit had made nearly noiseless, was

unheard on the present occasion by the only tenant

of the room, a young and very pretty girl ; she

was in tears, which, as soon as she perceived

Frank Merritt, she endeavored to conceal by a

forced smile. He was not so easily to be deceived,

and regarding her with a grave look he said, in a

kind tone —

Lina, how is it I find thee in tears ? what has

distressed thee?"

You mistake. I — I — nothing — I — l was not

in tears," exclaimed the maiden, in much confusion.



Nay, my eyes rarely deceive me," observed

Frank; " even now the bright water glitters iv thy

lids to disprove thy assertion. Thou hast been

shedding tears of grief. I have known thee from

infancy, and there is not a variation in thy features

of whose source lam ignorant. Come, tell me,

Lina ; thou hast no cause to fear my friendship

tell me what hath been the occasion of thy tears."

The face of the maid became from a roseate

hue to a scarlet, and then it changed to the deadliest

paleness; she looked earnestly into the eyes

of Frank, as though to read whether she could

detect any expression which might lead her to

doubt the truth of the friendship he had always

shewn her. It was evident a powerful struggle

was taking place within her whether she should

or not confide in horn the cause of the emotion he

had witnessed : he perceived it, and took her

hand, saying ,pin a gentle, and even musical tone —

Fear not, Lina — however stern roy nature

may appear to thee, it never plays false to mortal.

Thy innocent and, till now, unsuspicious heart has

long confided its every thought and wish to my

keeping, and its roost unguarded acknowledgements

were never betrayed, either for commendation

or derisive smile : confide hi me what thou

wilt, over wilt thou find roe true. And now I will

save thee some — I will not say pain — but embarrassment

; thought in love ! — nay, never hide thy

head — aud thought loved in return, by one 1 have

token some pains to discover, though humble, is

worthy of thee. Of this, though fondly thou didst

deem it securely locked in thine own breast, I have

been conscious ; and now tell me why thought

weeping. Thy lover hath not left thee for another,

and what other cause for sorrow hast thou ?"

The tone in which he spoke removed every fear

from the bosom of the timid girl, and, with an

artless manner, she replied —

My father has discovered that Carl and I love

each other, and be spoke to Carl very sternly

about it. Carl acknowledged his affection, and

asked my hand, but Carl is poor — very poor, for

all the money his father left horn he gave to save

a brother living in Pest, who was nearly ruined

by losses in trade. My father will not let rae

marry unless Carl possesses enough money to

keep me happily aud though Carl works very bard

from daybreak till far beyond sunset, he cannot

get enough, and so he is going to the wars as a

soldier ; for he says that he has heard strange tales

how soldiers become rich and even nobles, and

that he will try to wm me that way, and if he

should become a noble it will make no change in

horn ; but I am sure be will be killed, I have told

horn so, but he smiles at my fears, tells me it is the

only way to gain me, and he will dare that or

anything to wm mc."

"He shall not venture upon any such errand,"

exclaimed Frank : " dry thy tears, Lina, and wait

to see what to day will bring forth."

Lina, who had new hopes Kindled, obeyed horn,

aud with a pleasing readiness placed before horn

some refreshment, speaking with the freeness of

a glad heart, aud shewing by her alacrity in paying

horn every attention that she argued much from

his interference in her love affair. When his repast

was finished, the host made bis appearance,

and, with a resjiccli'ul .air, said —

A fresh steed, one that will suit your taste,

awaits you — he is new to you, but you never bestrode

a better."

"My dependance on thee never precipitated

me into tho mire," laconically observed Frank.

The steed I doubt not is worthy of thy praise —

wc will drink to his sure-sooteducss in a stoup

of your choicest wine ; fetch one, good Schwerin,

and also execute two commissions for me. There

is one Carl Ingolstadt — "

The lad is now at the door — he is, I believe,

going a journey," said the host, with an air of

surprise.

Bring horn with the wine, and the case strapped

at my saddle-bow ; be speedy withal," Frank exclaimed.

The host disappeared. Lina took Franks

hand and pressed it ; he smiled, and said —

No more tears, pretty Lina."

She sighed, but she made no reply — it was a

sigh of happiness, for her sanguine heart told her

what would presently happen. Her father's nobleness

was praiseworthy ; hi a space of time remarkable

for its shortness he made bis appearance

with the objects of his errand. Carl was a fine

looking young fellow, and certainly not unworthy

of the love of as pretty a girl as Lina ; his face

was pale and anxious ; he cast an uneasy glance

at Frank and then at Lina. He appeared at a

loss to guess what made her wear so pleased a

countenance, but conjecture was soon cut short by

Frank, whose proceedings were ever prompt aud

to the purpose. As soon as the host presented

Carl, and deposited the wine and the saddle bags

upon the table, he exclaimed —

Schwerin, you love your daughter Lina ?"

** With all my heart and soul," returned the

host, elevating his eyebrows with wonder.

And would see her happy ?observed Frank.

Undoubtedly," was the reply of the host.

You would not object to wed her to the man

of her choice if he were calculated to make her

happy ?" said Frank.

Not if he had enough money to keep her happily,"

returned the host.

Have you any objection to this youth beyond

his poverty ?" enquired Frank, pointing to Carl.

None whatever," said the host ; " I believe

horn to be a good and honest lad, but I have not

enough wealth to give ray daughter to make them

comfortable, and he has none : poor marriages

are always unhappy ones."

What sum would realize your expectations

aud wishes ?" asked Frank, placing his hand upon

his saddle-bags.

Fifty golden crowns would be a fortune," said

the host.

It is too much — too much," exclaimed Carl,

turning away his head in despair.

There are one hundred," said Frank, placing

two bags of gold upon the table ; " let them be

wedded at once. There is so little happiness in

the world, Schwerin, that when it is in our power

to grant it, wc are churls if wc delay one minute

in bestowing it." He poured out a goblet of wine,

and turning his face to the young couple said, cache

dra i ik, "To thy future happiness." He drained

the goblet, and then said impressively to both —

Remember life is brief, and happiness scarce ;

let no idle word or foolish thought cross the harmony

which now exists between you. Farewell

God grant you the happiness which I have

often coveted iv vain."

He seized his saddle-bags, and, before a reply

could be made, he quitted the apartment. All

were taken by surprise, more especially the host,

who had only known Frank in his terrible capacity

as an important agent of the Fehm-gerichte.

Each looked at the other without speaking. Carl

was the first to come to his recollection ; he

caught Lina in his arms and pressed her to his

heart, and then rushed forth to pour out his thanks

to Frank. He was close followed by Lina, and

the host brought up the rear. Their benefactor

was already upon his steed when the little band

appeared in view to acknowledge the service done

to there : and if gratefulness is to be fully tested

by an open acknowledgement of a benefit conferred,

then might Frank have congratulated himself

upon a full return for his beneficence. He

heard the outpourings of their hearts in silence,

and, when a moments pause occurred, he said —

I am bound to you, Lina, by ties you wot not

of: it is but my duty to see you in the right path

to happiness. I have hitherto endeavored to perform

that duty, and have so far, I hope, succeeded.

1 shall still be your friend, and, while I live, do

ray best to ensure your happiness : and he who

desires my good will, will be kind aud tender to

you. Adieu ! you will see me when you perhaps

expect me not — till then keep me in thy memory.

Farewell!"

Heaven bless you I" exclaimed Lina, her

eyes suffused with tears ; " Heaven bless you !

and make you as happy as you have made mc."

I pray God it may be so," ejaculated Carl,

fervently.

The host had an exclamation to make, but

Frank heard it not. He waved his hand iv token

of farewell, aud galloped from tho spot. There

was a proud satisfaction iv his heart that, where

he brought on to death the evil with one hand, he

lifted to earthly happiness the deserving with the

other. The host had not overrated the merits of

the steed upon which he was mounted; he had

full opportunities of testing its capabilities, and

they answered every expectation. He rested little

until he reached the spot where Quintain 

and Michael Flors had for many hours been

waiting his approach. Flors had long grown

weary of waiting, but Quintain, who knew that

Frank would keep his appointment, was less impatient,

and gave utterance to many aphorisms upon

patience which perhaps would have come with a

better grace from his elder companion. As the

sun sank behind the distant hills, Flors expressed

his decided conviction that they were remaining

to no purpose ; Tit Quintain, equally positive, persuaded

Flors to proceed to the next inn, and he

would wait the arrival of his expected friend. The

words had barely left his lips when the clatter of

horses sounded in the still air, and shortly afterwards

the long-desired person made his appearance.

He alighted from his steed the moment

he arrived, and shook our hero warmly by the

hand ; his welcome to Flors was more reserved,

but scarcely less courteous.

I scar you will think me a laggard m keeping

my appointment. I crave your pardon for having

detained you, but I have travelled a long distance,

aud it was not in the power of my steed, e'en a

gallant one, to perform it in less time than I have

done. " However, I will not keep you longer in

this cheerless place : follow me — wc will speak of

the matter expressly concerning you both with

the comforts of a cheerful inn around you, and the

satisfaction of rest from the fatigues of a long

journey filling your heart. Wc have not far to

journey crc these pleasures will greet us — let us on."

Both Quintain and Flors mounted their steeds

with alacrity. Frank leaped lightly upon the back

of the gallant animal which had borne horn hither,

and his example was speedily followed by the

guide, who exhibited no reluctance to try the effect

of the refreshment in store for them. Frank

had not deceived them in stating the inn to be at

uo great distance, aud gladly they hailed the sight

of its pointed roof and toll chimneys, from which

the blue smoke curled, giving gratifying indications,

in addition to the lights blazing from the

windows, of tho cheer within. At a short distance

they perceived a handsome and extensive castle,

but of this they took no heed. They quickly dismounted,

and as quickly made their way to the

principal room, where they found an excellent fire

and several travellers, who appeared to be making

the most of the advantages which the accommodation

of the inn afforded. They were not long

in plunging into the enjoyment of such refreshment

as was to be met with before the important

announcement of supper — one of no small importance

in German inns iv those days, when the

traveller had so much to depend upon the caprice

of the landlord, who was a greater despot in his

small territory than an eastern monarch in his

more extensive one. Frank Merritt, in his present

position, wore an air as different to any that

Quintain had ever seen horn assure as it was possible

to imagine : ho was careless, light-hearted,

and joyous in his demeanor — a free, boon companion

; his laugh sounded as loud as any one's present,

and his jest ran as freely. Once only there

was a slight change perceptible, and that occurred

from a remark made by Flors respecting his gallantry

in the attack on Antwerp ; he became very

grave, and said, in low tones, heard by none save

those to whom it was addressed —

Remember that wc are not in Flanders now ;

subjects of free discussion there must be warily

introduced in Westphalia."

The peculiar tone in which this was uttered

went to Flors' heart ; he knew not why — his

blood almost ran cold. He turned his eyes lo the

speakers face but the grave, stern expression was

gone, and in its place was the thoughtless aspect

of mirth so common among reckless soldiers of

fortune in their lighter hours. As yet not a word

respecting their future proceedings had escaped

horn, and the one check he had given to .the utterance

of matters with which he, in common with

themselves, was connected, made them cautious ;

and the hour where the host led the way to the

supper room, with the air of rui ancient knight

leading on the troops to the attack of some formidable

fortress, arrived, leavingthcir affairs in the

same position. The meal passed, having had due

honor done to it, and the hour for retiring arrived;

still no allusion, direct or indirect, came from

Frank, until they were about to retire to their

respective chambers. 'Then Frank whispered to

Quintain —

Keep thine eyes and cars open — but thy

longue as close as though 'twere encased in a casket

hermetically scaled ; there are eyes and ears

here who are prepared to note the slightest word

or act — beware of them. Proceed on thy journey,

keep the left bank of the Rhine until I join thee

then I will say to thee that which now 'tis

better to leave unsaid. Farewell — God keep you."

He squeezed his hand and quitted the room

with a brief salute to the painter, who, following

horn with his eyes until he had disappeared, exclaimed

—

Marry, thy friend is a singular being ; he — "

Quintain placed his finger to his lip, so that the

painter might observe his signal of caution and no

one else, and then, perceiving that Flors understood

it, with the air of one who is involved in

some mystery of which he can make nothing lucid

wisely waits the time for its unravelment, he took

the lighted taper offered horn by the host and

sought the chamber which, for that night, was to

contain himself and friend. Flors was much fatigued,

and, when in his bed, soon asleep. Not

so Quintain — there was too much food for thinking

in his position to keep horn from easily slumbering,

and the nature of his thoughts may be too easily

divined to advert further to them. He could not

sleep, and did not even seek his couch, but passed

the time in gazing from his window upon the landscape,

beautifully lighted by the moon. It was

soon past the hour of midnight, and the night was

very still save when disturbed by the rustling of

trees and the hollow moan of the night breeze.

Quintain was charmed by the lovely sight which

the brilliant moon displayed to his gaze, and ashe

looked on he mentally applied the lessons he

had received upon art from the painter, and was

not a little gratified to find his mid equal to their

application ; and this train of thought led to another

more interesting, more absorbing, until even

the art he intended to pursue, with the landscape

before horn, faded away, and he was all unconscious

of everything save hearing the sweet confession

of Agnes renewed, and her warm breath

upon his check. He was not a little, therefore,

startled from his reverie upon seeling a heavy

hand laid upon his shoulder, and hearing a hollow

voice whisper in his ear —

A truce with celestial brain wanderings now,

and attend to things more sublunary."

He turned, and a strange emotion of dread rather

than fear ran through his frame on beholding

a tall figure by his side, whose appearance was,

at that hour, awful ; he wore a close-fitting grey

doublet, with tab at the shoulders, and full light

sleeves ; his leggings were of the same color ;

small boots encased his feet, and mail gloves covered

his hands. Upon his head he wore a head

and neck piece of bright steel, so fashioned as to

preserve the shape of the head and face, while it

completely covered it ; there were openings from

which the eyes glared out. A triangular plate,

commencing at either car, terminated in a point

at the chin, leaving a small portion of the check

on each side visible. The shape and appearance

of the head thus encased gave it a character

which, to a superstitious personage, would have

proved fearfully terrifying ; even Quintain shrank

back instinctively, as his first glance lighted upon

his unexpected visitor ; but calling at once with

an effort upon his native courage, he demanded,

in as firm a tone, and with as firm a bearing as he

FRANK MERRITT'S INTERVIEW WITH THE EMPEROR Friedrich. i

could command —

Who and what art thou ?"

My present form hath deceived a more cunning

eye than thine, friend Quintain," said a voice

which our hero at once detected to be Frank

Merritt' s. ** I wonder not that a hasty glance

and this garb should keep a friend unknown to

thee, but command thy curiosity for awhile, and

listen : a circumstance hath occurred which hath

induced me to change my mode of proceeding —

follow me, and you shall better understand it."

But Flors—" suggested Quintain.

Fear not for horn," returned Frank. " Fatigue

and a sleeping potion will keep his eyelids

closed until the sun is up ; long crc that thou wilt

be in this chamber again."

Enough — I place all faith and dependence in

thee," observed Quintain,

"The brother of Blanche Matsys might do

more, and yet not be deceived," briefly remarked

Frank.

Why dost thou name my sister?" exclaimed

Quintain, with surprise.

"Thou shalt know that too, anon," returned

Frank with a sigh ; " there is nought to her dishonor

in my words, and the Great Power who

hears me knows there is none in my thoughts —

but this is trifling," he added hastily; "follow

me — there is time enough for that avowal."

He retired to a shadowed corner of the room

followed by Quintain, who could not but feel a

strange emotion seize horn at this unexpected mention

of his sister's name ; it raised a world of conjectures,

on which, however, he was, by the nature

of his situation, unable to indulge. He perceived

Frank, by touching, as he supposed, a spring, open

channel in the wainscoted pass through the opening;

he followed, and the panel closed in without

noise. As Frank proceeded Quintain found that his

companion's boots must be covered with felt, for not

the slightest sound proceeded from his step ; while

on the contrary, be as cautious as he would his own

steps were not noiseless. They had not proceeded

far when Frank stopt, and bade horn change his

boots for a pair which were felted, with which he

supplied hir n; and now, without a sound, they

proceeded down flights of stairs, and from thence

along a variety of subterraneous passages, which

appeared to be endless. The termination was,

however, reached, and various flights of stone

Steps were in succession mounted, Frank proving

the guide to our hero, who, but for his assistance,

would never have been able to thread his way in

the intense darkness. At length, after traversing

a long corridor, Frank paused : he turned to our

hero and whispered —

Remain here until I summon you ; here is a

small opening," he added, pointing to a narrow

chink, " hear and observe what passes, but for

your life move not, or utter a sound until I rejoin

you."

The next instant Quintain was alone. He observed

Frank glide into the apartment into which

he was directed to look, and perceived that he stood

within it, without being observed, in the gloom

where the light of a suspended lamp did not reach.

There was but one tenant of the chamber before

Franks entry ; he was a man who was rather

advanced in years, but whose countenance, noble

in every line, refused to bear the impress of the

iron hand of time. He had a remarkably bright

eye, and his moustaches and beard were dark, having

yet escaped the frost of age ; his thin hair

was also black, and his high brow looked white,

and clear of wrinkle, though there was withal some

imperceptible indication that ha had long passed

the rubicon of youth. He was richly attired, and

the furniture of the apartment, though simple, was

costly. When Quintain first saw horn he was engaged

in perusing a large volume, but a moment

afterwards he closed the book and, placing the

bright blade of an unsheathed sword upon it, he

rested his head upon his hand, and remained buried

in thought for a few minutes. Suddenly a

cold shiver appeared to run through his frame,

and, half turning his head towards the gloomy

part of the apartment, he exclaimed, in tones

which thrilled Quintain as he heard them —

Faust of the Red Hand— my chilled

blood tells me thought present ; advance, and let

me hear what thou wouldst with me ?"

Noiselessly, but instantly, Frank was by the

table side, and his summoner strove hard to keep

down the superstitious awe with which it was evident

he regarded him. He breathed short and

hard.

I knew it," he muttered, and added in a louder

tone, " speak, wc hear thee."

My liege," exclaimed Frank, in hollow tones,

the hour approaches for you to preside at the

meeting of the Tribunal whose power hath, in this

land, no equal. At thy wish, and that of the

Council of Three, I have prepared for thee a list

of those nobles whose crimes have rendered them

fit objects for the red hand of the Fehm-gerichte;

they are all prisoners in secluded places, for they

are all powerful ; and did their vassals know their

prisons, thy troops would be insufficient to keep

them in their dungeons — "

"Of that anon," interrupted his auditor — "I

would hear of the expedition against Antwerp ;

those around me have less love for truth than

flattery, and, knowing not my inclining, garble

statements fearfully."

Thy question, my liege, is answered in sew

words — it utterly failed'' returned Frank ; " the

citizens fought like desperate men who stake their

all upon one cast, and slew, or made their assailants,

with but few exceptions, prisoners."

"This is well," exclaimed his auditor; "wert.

thou present as I bade thee?" he enquired.

Even to raising my right hand in the cause

of liberty," Frank replied readily. " I saw the

battle commenced and the troopers imprisoned."

** Thy intelligence hath pleased me," he exclaimed,

with evident satisfaction ; "my proud

nobles — kings, in their own eyes — would grasp

town and city, leaving me the shadow of regal

power, and not that when it pleased them to play

the Emperor." — He paused a moment, and then,

added, musingly, " And what am I but a shadow,

a puppet — a creation ar which they, who are supposed

to uphold its dignity, mock as they bow.

Trammelled by untractable, oppressive nobles,

who will gratify their ambitious designs at any expense

— who would throw off their allegiance fora

gewgaw, if it attracted their grasping avarice,

and, at the head of more troops than I can really

command, would, did I oppose their wishes, overrun

the few possessions which I can rightfully call my

own, what can I do but apply to stratagem — all

unworthy of my station— to defeat objects which

I must appear to coincide with, and yet my soul

abhors ? lam right glad to hear the gallant citizens

of Antwerp have maintained their rights,

even though my troops were among the defeated.

I would have thee, good Faust, circulate among

the bold citizens my feelings in this matter, though

,1 fettered position renders me unable to openly

acknowledge them."

Your will shall be obeyed, my liege," returned

Frank.

Whom doth thy list include ?" asked his

questioner.

Frank slowly drew from his vest a roll of parchment,

aud read aloud the names of several nobles.

He repeated that of the Duke Estevan, and his

auditor, who listened attentively, started, and exclaimed

hastily —

"Ha I our cousin ! who hath signed his citation?"



"The Grand Duke Lladislaus," was the response

of Frank, who at once pointed out the

signature on the scroll, which he held up before

his evidently noble auditor. He inspected it earnestly

for a moment, and then added —

•' Upon what accusation ?"

Your Imperial Highness may well ask that

question, when ,tha crimes of the cited are manifold,"

said Frank, sarcastically. " But the partis

ocular crime for which he is now arranged shall

1 appear upon his trial ; the Holy Fehm-genchl''

knows nor rank nor station where crime is great

and substantiated."

The noble bowed his head, and Frank proceeded.

He named the Count Idenberg, and his

auditor smiled —

There hast thou done thy duty, and me a

service," he said. " I know of no actual crime

he has committed, but sordid avarice, and grasping

and insatiate ambition. By my progenitors ! but

that hungry noble wearied me to death : backed

by Lladislaus, he importuned me day and hour

until he dragged a warrant from me to proceed —

Heaven knows upon what grounds — against my

liege subjects all through Flanders. A pestilence

upon horn I I dared not refuse, for Lladislaus

supported horn ; and that hot, impatient prince,

would have hurled defiance at once, and plunged

the states I have so hardly striven to preserve in

peace, into a bloody and devastating war."

Yet hath the Grand Duke signed his warrant

of arrest," observed Frank, in a peculiarly dry

tone.

"Ha ! say'st thou — who requested of horn his

signature ? Doth he live ?"

That did I, and in the garb of a plain man,"

returned Frank, in his usual calm, imperturbable

tone. " He promised me a leap into the lake upon

which his castle stands, but he did not carry it

into execution when 1 acquainted horn with my

title."

A scarcely perceptible shudder ran through the

frame of the noble : he shook it off, aud said —

His signature hath, at least, freed rae from

some uneasiness. Tell me, good Faust, was that

frame work of iron, of which the Count spoke so

largely, completed ?"

No, my liege," he replied.

"It may still prove of service," said the noble,

thoughtfully. " Knowest thou the smith who was

to have fashioned it?"

I do my liege," replied Frank ; " one minute

ball place horn in thy presence, if such be thy

pleasure."

she nobleman looked up with surprise, but

instantly turned his eyes from the fearful aspect

which Frank, in his steel mask, presented. He

still, however, preserved the calm dignity and absence

of emotion which he had, with a strong effort,

worn hitherto. He exclaimed quietly —

Let horn appear — if thou canst do so by natural

agency," he added hastily, with something of

a superstitious manner.

I employ no other," said Frank ; "it is sufficient

to compass the deeds of the bravest, and the

schemes of the most cunning." He glided as he

'poke into the gloom from which he had previously

emerged, and the next instant he stood by the

side of Quintain.

short about to appear in the presence of the

Emperor Freiderich," he whispered. " This is

what I intended, but it hath been brought to pass

in a manner unexpected by me ; it, however, tender

to the same end. Speak boldly — fear not,

but utter not a word more than is necessary.

Follow mc."

Quintain had not time to make a reply crc he

appeared before the Emperor Freiderich, for he

it was who had, iv tho manner described, given

audience to Frank. Quintain bent his knee, and

was immediately ordered to rise. The Emperor

eyed horn closely, scanned every feature attentively,

and seemed bent upon reading, if it were

possible, his inmost thoughts ; but the clear, unclouded

brow of our hero rendered it impossible

to penetrate beyond tho honest frankness plainly

perceptible in every feature, and the scrutiny

ended in his favor.

"You are from Antwerp?" commenced the

Emperor.

Quintain bowed.

I am given to understand, of some repute ;

yet is thy aspect exceeding youthful to have earned

such fare — still laurels on so young a brow add

fresh value to thy merits. Wert thou a spectator

of the conflict between the soldiers aud the

citizens in the late attempt upon thy native city ?"

Quintain replied iv the affirmative.

Not an inactive one, probably ?"

I shared, with my fellow-citizens, the danger

of the fray," returned Quintain, modestly.

Frank, who had stood aloof, now advanced, and

in a brief speech gave a warm eulogy of Quintain's

conduct. The Emperor smiled on hearing it.

Thou hast a powerful friend," he observed to

Quintain, " one who may stand thee in better stead

than I, were I so inclined — what hath brought

thee hither in such goodly company ?"

I am cited to appear before the assembly of

the Fehm-gerichle upon a charge of treason to

your majesty 1 opine, though my citation states it

not, of which I am guiltless."

Doubtless," exclaimed the Emperor, sarcastically;

"it were too much a strain upon the love

of truth for thee to acknowledge thy guilt in our

presence. But this is a matter for those who have

summoned thee, and justice will be rendered thee

by them. Thou hadst a commission in thine art

from the Court Idenberg — a screen of iron work :

hast thou executed it?"

No, my liege," replied Quintain.

And wherefore ?" interrogated the Emperor.

The Count sought to induce me to perform

acts at which my sense of right and justice rebelled:

he would have compelled me, with a threat

of instant death, if I refused. I did refuse, and

proved ray intention to remain firm in my resolve.

An unsteady hand alone saved me from a bullet

discharged at roe by horn, and a friend enabled

me to escape. I need, my liege, say nothing further,

I presume, in explanation of ray leaving his

commission unfinished. It was, however, almost

completed, when stirring matters caused It to be

laid aside ; for it may still be used, though not,

probably, for the service to which the Count purposed

applying it."

What was that purpose ?" asked the Emperor.

I know not," replied Quintain ; "he kept that

bidden from me."

Well," exclaimed the Emperor, " should the

Fehm-gerichte acquit thee, thou mayest complete

it for us ; wc little doubt but the object for which

wc shall use it will be different to that of the

Count's. What is thy name ?"

Quintain Matsys 1" replied our hero.

I shall remember it, and unless thou hast

proved a treasonable rogue, and thy looks belie

thee if thou hast, thou mayst have occasion to remember

thy interview with the Emperor. Thou

mayst depart."

'• Ere he quits the presence, my liege," said

Frank, stepping forward, " I would presume to

request thy consideration for this youth, who, as

I will prove upon his trial, is unjustly accused."

Thy testimony will need little assistance from

us," interrupted the Emperor ; " the members of

the Holy Fehm-gerichte have too long proved

thy truth and honesty, not to suffer thy word to

have more influence with them than our poor

wish. However, wc will not forget, when he is

brought before us, that thou hast said the charge

is unjust."

Frank uttered his thanks. Quintain echoed them,

and, sinking upon one knee, said earnestly —

My liege, suffer me to prefer a petition for

thy clemency in the case of one also cited upon a

similar charge to that against me ; he is, I solemnly

aver, less guilty than I, who am guiltless.

The charge is one made in a spirit of revenge

against the simplest-hearted, and yet most talented

of Antwerp's sons — Michael Flors, the painter."

"Hal" cried the Emperor, starting. "Michael

Flors, our companion of yore, charged with

evil designs against us ! — Nay, that accusation

must be well substantiated crc wc give credence

to it, else is the man changed marvellously from

the tranquil, peaceful nature he bore when wc

were wont to remove from the turmoil and intrigues

of ambitious politicians to the repose of

his quiet chamber, and watch with calm but wondering

eyes the pursuit of an art of whose mysteries

wc would fain have been possessed. — 1 look

back to those hours with a melancholy pleasure :

I well remember the studious enthusiast, who had

No thoughts but for his art — and he to be accused

of treason ! this, at least, wears the aspect of a

malignant accusation, and well shall the testimony

of the accuser, and his character also, be sifted,

crc the solemn conclave shall aver this man is

guilty."

Quintain, in enthusiastic terms, returned his

thanks, and was conducted by Frank from the

chamber. He guided horn to the door of the

sleeping apartment which he had occupied in the

inn previous to this midnight visit, and our hero

perceived, by the light of the moon, which fell

upon Flors' bed, and disclosed the face of the old

man, that he was buried in a deep sleep.

How calm he looks, how tranquilly he sleeps,"

he observed ; " his quiet breathing, his peaceful

slumber, denote not the disturbed and feverish

dreams which haunt the sleep of the guilty."

There was no response to his remark, and the

dead silence which reigned around induced horn to

turn his head towards the spot where be supposed

Frank stood, but he was not visible. He had

lest — when, or how, our hero knew not, and when

he searched for the outlet through which he had

passed with Frank he could not discover it. The

door remained in the same state as when he had

fastened it upon first entering it with Flors. He

called, in a low tone, upon Frank, but the chamber

alone echoed his voice ; and believing that

his strange friend had some particular motive for

his conduct, he prosecuted his search no further,

but retired to rest, to disturbed dreams, which

the peculiar nature of the circumstances by which

he was surrounded naturally called forth.

CHAP. Xxviii.

When the morning came, Quintain was aroused

by Flors. The sun was np, and he sprung from

his slumber, as the hand of the painter was laid

upon his shoulder to summon horn, like a startled

deer. He gazed wildly round, and for a moment

could scarce understand where he was, or who was

by his side.

"Thou hast slept heavily," exclaimed Flors.

Thou hast been more fatigued than thou hast

cared to acknowledge. Let us hope that the day

of trial will pass away with such satisfaction as

may render our weary journey light in our remembrance."



••I hope so," returned Quintain, briefly, and

commencing to attire himself preparatory to

immediate departure.

I shall have a heavy amount of gratitude to

pay you on my return," continued Flors ; " thou

hast done me many services, and art yet so well

disposed towards me, that even in thy slumber my

name, and that of my daughter, issued from thy

lips. May I enquire what were the visions which

Somnus thought fit to involve Agnes and myself

in, and pass in array before thee ?"

Quintain both felt and looked embarrassed. He

replied evasively. He would not acknowledge

the remembrance of dreams which he knew would

make too open a display of the state of his heart

were he to relate them ; he therefore wisely eschewed

them, and changed the subject. The

painter made some enquiries respecting Frank,

which our hero answered as though he were conscious

of no more having transpired than Michael

Flors was acquainted with, and partook of the

morning's repast without reverting to other than

common-place subjects. When the meal was concluded,

and Frank did not make his appearance,

they discharged their account with their landlord

and proceeded on their way : for this was the last

day which the citation allowed them to complete

their journey in, and many miles had yet to be

passed over crc their destination was reached.

No incident of any particular nature occurred to

them while proceeding, save that they saw a very

large number of horsemen and pedestrians, all

apparently making for the same point as themselves.

As, however, they drew nearer to the

Drachenfels, they lost sight of all the travellers,

and journeyed through wild and rugged scenery

until, just as the sun was reaching the west, they

arrived at the spot to which they had been directed.

It was a lonely looking place ; the road wound

down through an alley of dark trees, whose deep

tinted foliage gave a sombre aspect to the scene,

and rendered it a fit looking place for an appointment

with a member of the fearful Tribunal to

which they were summoned. At a short distance

was the ruined turret of a castle appearing above

the tops of numerous trees, and, in truth, the prospect

on all sides was bounded by wood, making

the scene sufficiently gloomy.

This does not appear by any means an enlivening

spot," observed Quintain, as they reached it,"

yet this is the place, evidently."

There seems little to feed hope on, here," returned

Flors. "In fact it seems more calculated

to drive hope away, and put despair in its place.

I trust the agent of the dread Tribunal, who is to

conduct us before the secret counsellors, will not

keep us waiting here as thy friend did in that gorge

lower down the Rhine ; this is not a place I should

choose for contemplation."

"Look there!" cried Quintain, with a suddenness

which startled Flors. The painter followed

the direction in which he had pointed, and his

blood ran cold with horror at perceiving, on

horseback, a figure whose attire was calculated to

strike terror in all who beheld him. Upon his

head he wore an helmet and visor, similar to that

which Frank had worn when conducting Quintain

before the Emperor, save that this one was surmounted

with black feathers ; a long black cloak

sell from his shoulders, hung nearly to his feet,

and partly covered his horse's haunches ; bis eyes

glared fearfully from the openings in his helmet

and were directed upon our hero, who had previously

been looking upon the spot occupied by

this fearful looking being, and it was then vacant.

A mere turn of the eye, while answering Flors,

had given the opportunity for the appearance of

this mysterious personage, like a spectre, upon the

scene. When their attention was sufficiently

rivetted upon him — and it required little time to

accomplish that — he pointed in tho direction before

horn, and moved slowly forward : almost instinctively

Quintain followed horn, and Flors brought

up the rear. The black steed upon which the

stranger was mounted seemed fully impressed

with the part he had to perform, and advanced with

a stately step which well accorded with the appearance

and demeanour of the strange being he bore

upon his back. The gloomy road, overhung with

trees whose huge branches, covered with leaves

almost black, threw a deep shadow across the path,

was chosen by their mysterious conductor to be

pursued, until a small opening, more like a foot,

than a horse path, appeared between the thick

trees ; along this he guided his horse, followed

by our hero and the painter, and urged, a way

through intricate recesses, brushed on either side

by straggling branches, apparently careless of any

obstacle which the wild nature of the path presented.

In this manner they proceeded for sometime

— not a word was spoken by either party until

a ruined court yard, portion of a decayed castle,

"suddenly burst upon their sight : an exclamation

of surprise escaped the lips of Quintain on finding

a castle situated in such a spot. The sound did

not pass the ears of their guide unnoticed : he

turned his head, and raised his fingers as a caution

to observe silence. He rode into the courtyard

and dismounted, motioning Quintain and

Flors to do the same ; he then made a hollow

sound, which might have been taken for the moan

of some one in the agonies of death, chilling the

blood of our hero and the painter as it crossed

their care ; and instantly three men made their

appearance from a hidden recess, and took charge

of the horses. These new corners were also members

of the Fehm-gerichte ; they were masked,

and attired in black garments ; they uttered no

sound, but, at a sign, led their steeds away. The

guide who had conducted Quintain and Flors hither

now beckoned to both to follow horn, and traversed

the hall, dilapidated and cheerless in every

part, until a flight of stairs, leading to a dark looking

gallery, appeared ; they wound their way

through its gloom, and paused before the door of

an apartment. The guide flung it open, and they entered

a small room, whose bare walls, undecorated by

carving, painting, or tapestry, presented a desolate

appearance ; there was not an article either of furniture,

and in this miserable place their guide left

them. Quintain and Flors looked at each other

for a moment, each with an expression of surprise

and anxiety.

"Are wc to pass the night in this wretched

hole ?" exclaimed Quintain.

"If wc are, it will be a disagreeable penance

for being guiltless of any crime," replied Flors.

Here is a door," observed Quint in, pointing to

one in a corner of the room on the opposite side

to that by which they had entered ; " I wonder

whither it leads — I will try it."

You had perhaps better not," exclaimed Flors;

wc are in the bands of the dreaded tribunal," he

added, with a slight shudder, " and 'twere as well

to wait their will where wc have been placed by

their minister."

But to remain here all night when wc might

better our situation," returned Quintain, with a

smile. " There cannot be much addition to our

guilt in attending to our personal comfort — at least,

I think not ; and therefore will try whether this

door yields to my wishes."

He proceeded to it, but, after trying for sometime,

he found it immovable. He turned to

Flors, and said —

"It will not give ; I suppose wc must content

ourselves with our present abode ; yet," he added,

I confess I should like to know to what elysium

it denies our progress."

Removed his eyes mechanically to the spot as he

concluded, and started to find the door open, and

their guide to this castle standing in the doorway.

Michael Flors," exclaimed the mysterious

being, in a hollow and stern voice, " follow me —

but alone."

The painter, whose eyes had been rivetted upon

the stranger from the moment of his appearance,

looked at Quintain as though hesitating whether to

comply with the command. The agent of the

Tribunal observed it, and stamped his foot impatiently

; he motioned Flors, with hasty gestures,

to follow horn, and moved slowly away. The

painter .pressed Quintain's hand and obeyed him.

He had hardly crossed the threshold, when the

door closed after horn with a loud report, and our

hero was left alone. There was a hollowness in

the sound of the reverberation of the door, which

struck horn with a sense of loneliness that he had

perhaps never before experienced ; and there was

nothing in the aspect of the place to tend to banish

such feelings from his mid. The room was

lighted from a small window, placed, however, so

high, that it was impossible, without artificial aid,

to see anything from it but sky. The light

which before had enabled the tenants to take a

survey of its properties now by degrees vanished,

leaving Quintain in solitary darkness, and certainly

in no very satisfied or contented state of mid.

The motive for separating Flors and himself he

could not fathom, nor help feeling weary of it ; it

did not argue anything favorable to his personal

security, and yet, could faith be placed in Frank

Merritt, no harm would attend either of them.

Something reassured by the remembrance of one

who had hitherto proved his friend, and having

exhausted conjecture, he turned to other and more

pleasing thoughts — thoughts in which Agnes

reigned supreme. He was soon profoundly buried

in dreams, hopes, schemes and visions, fairylike

and full of happiness. He leaned against the

wall, and became conscious only that Agnes and

happiness were inseparable. He was aroused

from his train of thought by a hand upon his

shoulder : it was too dark to perceive any object,

but thrusting his hand suddenly out, it came in

contact with the visor of one whom he knew to bea

member of the Fehm-gerivhte. He drew it

back shudderingly, and heard, as he expected, the

singularly hollow voice of his fearful companion,

who had obtained access to horn he knew not how,

exclaim —

Follow me, and speak not ; breathe not a

sound until you are questioned."

Quiutin felt his baud grasped by a cold mail

gauntlet, and found himself drawn through the

darkness at a rapid pace. They proceeded for

some time through the same intense darkness. At

length his conductor stopped, and said — ■

Remain moveless."

Quintain, half bewildered, obeyed horn, and felt

the grasp of his strange conductor increase : the

next instant he found himself sinking swiftly and

noiselessly through, as it appeared, the floor ot

the gallery which he had just traversed. A slight

shake told horn he had reached the termination of

the descent, and once more he was hurried forward,

still in the same impenetrable gloom. At

length his conductor stopped and gave three taps ;

Quintain afterwards perceived a door ; the sounst

was followed by a sharp cbek, and the door moved

aside. Quintain was then ushered into an apartment,

which, though lighted but by one gloomy

lamp, was dazzling to his eyes, from having

been brought suddenly from such intense

darkness into it. When he recovered his sight

sufficiently to observe what was around horn, he

found the room to be low and arched like a vault.

There was a single table covered with a crimson

cloth ; upon it were various rolls of parchment,

materials for writing, and a huge seal, upon which

was engraved four daggers in the shape of a cross,

and the initials Ses. Gag. Three persons were

seated at the table, all habited in black robes ; the

centre of the three sat higher than his two companions,

and wore, instead of the black masks

which covered the face of the other two, one of

red. Quintain was led to the centre of the room,

and his conductor exclaimed in a respectful tone —

This is he whom you desired to have before

you."

He then retired, leaving our hero alone in the

apartment with those seated at the table. A

moments silence was observed ; and then the

chief, referring to a document, exclaimed —

You are Quintain Matsys, a native of Antwerp

— by trade a smith — by profession a carver

of figures in wood ; you are "the leader of the predecessors

— it was you who saved the daughter of

a burgomaster, named Vanderneer, from being

carried away by tho Baron Otho — you also rescued

the daughter of Michael Flors, a painter,

from the designs of Count Von Haalst — you rescued,

at the head of your band, the painter from

a tower to which the Count Idenberir, by virtue

of a warrant from the Emperor, had consigned

hir n: you are the young min who hath done the

things I have named ; speak freely, and speak

truly."

I am," returned Quintain, firmly. He had resolved,

from the first moment he found himself in

the presence of the Council of Three, ti preserve

a demeanor which should not induce them to believe

horn, though placed in a position that might

have cowed even a courageous man, either weak

or alarmed. Conscious of innocence of crime, he

determined to be abashed by no charge which he

felt satisfied he had not rightfully incurred ; and

though, perhaps, he could not look without some

unpleasing foreboding on that which was awful in

itself, he would not evince any emotion of fear or

uneasiness by sign or gesture. The eye of the

chief, which glittered like a diamond set in the

scarlet mask, was fixed steadily upon horn ; but

he quailed not beneath its glare, though it cost

horn an exertion to preserve bis unwavering bearing.



You have a friend in one who is all powerful

—you have found horn so. Dost thou know who

rightfully he is ?" enquired the chief.

"Not from his own lips," returned Quiutin,

guessing instantly to whom his interrogator alluded.



Thou canst make a shrewd guess ?"

I heard his name uttered by another," replied

Quintain.

By whom?" asked the red mask.

Quintain remained silent. The chief repeated

his question, and Quintiu replied —

1 know not whether I am at liberty to answer

that question."

From us nothing may be concealed," returned

the chief.

Still I do not seel at liberty to reply," said

Quintain.

Wc can compel you," uttered the red mask,

sternly.

No," exclaimed Quintain, firmly.

"Do you defy our power ?" he cried, in startling

tones.

No," replied Quintain, in the same firm voice ;

but I do not believe I have a just right, without

permission from the principal person concerned,

to reveal what you ask; and if I seel ray assumption

approach conviction, no torture could wring

it from me."

You are young to make such a boast," observed

the chief, sarcastically.

I know my nature," responded Quintain,

quietly.

A pause ensued, and some whispering took place

on the matter, which did not reach the ears of

Quintain, save one remark from one of the Councillors,

who exclaimed—

He is right — proceed with the interrogatory."

You placed .Michael Flors in the convent of

St. Francis — upon your return you were attacked

by a ruffian, and wore preserved from death by

some members of our Holy Tribunal. — You heard

the death confession of the knave — what did he

disclose ? — Thou need'st not hesitate ; this question

thou must answer, and can, without compromising

the safety of those who permitted thee to

hear it."

He revealed the murder of a citizen — '

That crime wc care not to hear of," interrupted

the red mask ; " the murderer and instigator

have long been punished. Proceed to the

next disclosure he made."

"He confessed the murder of the Countess

Idenberg, whom, for gold, he slow, while walking

in the borders of the wood skirting the Count's

castle"

Spoke he of any papers?" asked one of the

Council.

Yes," returned Quintain. "He sound some

papers and a picture — "

Which he consigned to the keeping of one

Frank Merritt ?" observed the red mask.

Even so," replied our hero.

This Frank Merritt, so called, is the friend

of thine to whom I alluded ?" said the chief.

Quintain bowed his head affix actively.

Did he ever speak to you respecting this matter?"

he enquired; and added sternly — "no

evasion."

There requires none," retorted Quintain.

He did not."

Nor thou to horn ?"

No," was the calm reply.

Another pause and some whispering ensued,

and then the chief exclaimed, in a tone of haughty

command —

Advance to the table ; peruse that document,

and then affix thy signature to it."

Quintain obeyed, and taking a roll of parchment

from the chief's hand, he perused it and sound a

formal declaration of the confession of Steinhart,

respecting Count Idenberg's crime, drawn up. The

truth was strictly adhered to, and therefore he

felt little compunction in attaching his name.

When he had done what was required, the stern

voice of the chief ejaculated —

Retire to your former place."

When he had complied with this mandate, and

wondered what next was to be asked of horn, the

chief exclaimed —

You know the Count Von Haalst — what know

you of horn ?"

That he is a villain," cried Quintain, a thrill

of rage running through his frame at the bare

mention of his name. " I would that I had but

twelve square feet of earth and a good blade to

meet horn, foot to foot, upon, and offer my life against

his."

Thou couldst give no better proof of my opinion

of horn," exclaimed one of the Council, who had

before spoken. " Did not the ruffian Steinhart

make some disclosure respecting horn?"

He accused horn of poisoning his father, and

stated, in addition, that his Seneschal Rupert could

give every information relative to it."

The Sensehiil is in our bands," observed the

red mask, and continued " Were you not made prisoner

by horn?"

I was," replied Quintain, " and confined in a

dungeon beneath his castle. I escaped by the

interference of the friend of whom you have

spoken. 1 have here a dagger which 1 found in

the dungeon in which I was placed ; it is rusted

with blood; it bears the name of Aldebert Von

Haalst, and may form some link in the evidence

you may require against him."

He drew from his vest, as be spoke, the rusty

dagger which had proved of such service to horn

in his confinement, and placed it upon the table

before the chief, and then retired to his former

place. The red mask took it up, regarded it

attentively, and then passed it to each of his

brethren in turn. They all surveyed it with the

same closeness, and again all whispered together.

Presently the chief said to our hero —

Thou hast supplied an important addition to

evidence already received ; this object was required;

it was missing. Its recovery is singular,

and impressive as a voice of Providence, for it will

bring conviction where other evidence, though

very conclusive, might probably have failed.

With this discovery ends our questioning ; now

sign this document, which refers to your evidence

in this case, as in the last."

Quintain subscribed his name to the parchment

tendered to horn, and the red mask then said —

You may retire and await your trial, which

will take place in the morning. There is not an act

of thine which is concealed from the eyes aud

knowledge of the Holy Fehm-gerichte ; if you feel

in your heart that you have need of mercy, pray

this night for it to thy God — from the Holy Tribunal

you will receive nothing but justice."

He struck a bell as the last words sell from his

lips, and the guide who had conducted Quintain to

this apartment made his appearance; thefehmen-

note, for such he was, led our hero away. They passed

after leaving the council chamber, as before,

through dark passages, enlivened by a single

ray of light, until they reached an apartment which

presented a more comfortable aspect than the one

into which be had been previously ushered ; there

was also refreshment upon the table, and a lamp.

Quintain looked around for Flors, but he was not

there ; he enquired for him. The fchinenoie, however,

replied sternly —

Question not — he is safe, as thou wilt be to-nights''



CHAP. XXIX.

During the brief intercourse between Michael

Flors and his youthful cousin Francis Floris, a

few words had dropped from the former which had

linen treasured up by the latter as a wondrous

balm, to be used only like some cooling fragrant

oil upon a burning and painful wound. They

were words of hope and comfort, stars see through

a rent in a clouded, turbid sky, angels appearing

in the moments of the blackest despair, holding

out sweet tokens of happiness, which despite the

desperate situation of his wishes, would yet come

to pass. The words were few, aud unheeded

when uttered, but rushed upon the memory like a

sudden burst of sunshine in a tempest, the herald

of a calmer and a happier time. These words

were simply an observation made by the old painter,

while admiring the production of his younger

brother artist.

I am proud of the relationship to so much

talent, and shall be prouder still when that relationship

becomes closer, by nearer and dearer

ties ; when, as a proud father, I can contemplate

the progress, guide the exuberant imaginings, and

behold the approbation of the wise aud experienced,

at the excelling productions of so worthy

a son."

When these words first fell upon the ears of

Francis Floris, they had passed as a figurative

compliment ; he had supposed them to convey the

old man's intention to watch horn with the kindness

of a parent, not that he intended to make

horn his son by wedding horn to his daughter ; but

when he afterwards came to con over every remembrance,

to dwell upon every word which

had transpired during his short interview with

Agnes, this remark of Flors burst upon horn with

a suddenness that made his heart beat wildly,

and every nerve tremble with emotion. In his

lone chamber he had sat horn down on the night

of the day he had seen Agnes at Vandeneer's residence,

and witnessed that expressive speaking

look which her soft eyes had bent upon Quintain ;

such a whirl of feeling had passed through his

breast while there seated, as before he had never

experienced. His was a spirit of a nature which

brooked not control nor opposition on points where

he had set his mid to accomplish or possess : he

was naturally proud and haughty ; overbearing

where he could with impunity, selfish to a degree ;

but among his companions, when they interfered

not with his wishes or pursuits, be was frank and

jovial, would drink with the deepest quaffer, sing

with the loudest chanter, or engage in frolics with

the wildest. In the schools in which he had studied

he had therefore made many friends among the

students, and as he had a constitution and a head

which could bear mad vagaries, without interfering

with the morning's labor, and as he was assiduous

from a worldly motive, rather than enthusiasm

for his art, he was well looked upon by

the heads of the schools, was praised and held upas

an example to the duller aud more refractory

pupils ; he had, as before stated, a well featured

visage, and a good figure ; his success, therefore,

with females had been such as almost to surprise

tinsel f; but then he was all self, and sacrificed

numberless small personal considerations, which

have remarkable influence with single hearted

maidens, to gain his object. He had the means of

appearing liberal, and was so where liberality became

a means to the end in view ; but he had no

consideration for the future, no care for results ;

having accomplished his design, the motive for

pursuit ceased, and the object was at once, without

a thought for the misery he had occasioned,

abandoned for another, to be doomed to the same

despair as her predecessor. He had never loved,

though he had won the love of several ; the

happiness of the whole life of whom were set

upon that one cast, to find themselves flung by

like a toy which a child had been most desirous

to obtain, and having become possessed of it,

throws it away, as much because it has been obtained,

as from any other cause. He quitted the

scene of such exploits, therefore, without regret,

nor thought of one left behind with a pang of remorse,

or a sigh of sorrow ; he looked forward

only ; he turned his eyes to the future, to what new

scenes he might appear in, what new friends he

might obtain, what new conquests make, what

poor maiden he might rob of their guileless hearts;

but he dreamed not of having a conquest gained

over his heart, and such a conquest ! by one who

was more lovely than any maiden upon whom

he had castles eyes, who bad, at little else than a

glance, completely subjugated horn, and yet looked

evidently at horn with distaste — a look which

till now had, from a maiden, been a stranger to •

him. How that thought rankled and burned in

his heart. Had le possessed a fore knowledge

of her beauty, and been equally conscious of her

relationship, he would have made " assurance

doubly sure," that from his personal qualifications,

and the opportunities which their consanguinity

would naturally throw in his way, he

would easily wm her affections, and would have

been as much thunderstruck as now, having no

opportunity for such reasoning, to find how falsely

he had calculated. That Agnes had discovered

the state of his heart he felt convinced, and that

the discovery was displeasing to her, he had no

doubt, nor did he attempt to disguise it himself,

and this reflection wrought horn to a pitch of madness,

for though he knew by experience, that it

was the nature of some women to be fickle, having

won them from lovers, yet he easily saw Agnes

was not oue of those, and having given her heart,

it was not in his power to remove it from the

being who possessed it, and receive it himself.

While, in the despair into which such a conviction

plunged horn, the words of Flors rushed into his

mid, and in the extacy of the moment, he sprung

from his chair, and paced the room under the influence

of incontrollable emotions. He formed

a shrewd surmise of the character of Flors, and

was satisfied, that if he came to a resolve, he would

at all hazards execute it, aud Francis Floris was

not a roan to care for the maidens consent, if

any other circumstances could make her his. He

knew very well that marriage must take place,

and if such an event made her miserable, that washer

consideration, he should not suffer by it because

of that, he would take sufficient care, and

if she chose to grieve at that which was inevitable,

why she might ; he should have gained his object,

and she must look to her own happiness : a flood

of such thoughts rushed through his mid, and he

retired to his solitary couch with more comfort

than he had since he had first cast his eyes upon

Agnes.

He resolved to suffer a day or two to pass cache

repeated his visit to the residence of Flors, and

then he determined to act in such a fashion as to

induce Agnes to look upon horn with kinder eyes.

He was well read in the ways of women ; he was

not ignorant of their predisposition, of their likes

and dislikes, of the best way of approaching their

hearts with the silent flattery of little acts which

have no voice, but are seen and appreciated. He

had been compelled to study them and act them

with skill, to cover the base designs he had then

in view ; and now he felt the necessity of exerting

both knowledge and ability, to be even received

with a friendly air. A sew days did pass away,

and he directed his steps to the abode of his cousin.

Upon arriving there, so carefully attired ashe

was too, he was not a little staggered to find

the house wearing the aspect of mourning, or of

having been deserted. With a trembling hand

he applied to the bell for a solution of this unexpected

appearance : a stout fellow, placed by Vanderneer

in charge of the house, answered the summons,

and replied in short terms to the questions

that Francis put to horn, that Mynheer Flors had

quitted Antwerp, for he did not know where, nor

how long; and any questions respecting Miss

Agnes would be answered by his master, the burgomaster

Vanderneer. Francis mused upon this

reply, and in the mean time the man closed the

door and returned to his dinner, from which he

had thus been disturbed. The shutting of the

door aroused Francis from his reverie, and he

called to the man to stop ; but, as his dinner was

cooling, he was afflicted with deafness, and Francis

Floris, who was as ignorant of the residence

of the burgomaster as he was that of an utter

stranger, was left to discover it as he might. Too

well versed in the disposition of such people as

the man who had made so short an exhibition of

himself at the door to recal horn by a summons at

the bell, being satisfied that he should only obtain

an uncivil reply without gaining any information,

he determined to rcrvke for the house where he

had seen Agnes at the balcony when the procession

passed. The tenants were assuredly their

friends, and possibly he should obtain here all the

information he could desire. Accordingly, thither

he wended his steps, not knowing that it was the

house of the very personage his surly answerer

had bade horn apply to. When he arrived there,

his summons for admission was quickly answered.

Wilt thou inform me, friend," he exclaimed

to the serving man who opened the door, " who

dwells here?"

The man looked surprised, but replied instantly

The burgomaster Vanderneer."

Indeed," replied Francis Floris, with equal

amazement. "By St. Luke ! that is as singular

as fortunate. Is thy master within, friend ?"

He is," replied the man.

Wilt thou convey to horn my name, which is

Francis Floris, and say to horn that I would gladly

have a few minutes converse with horn, if he be

not engaged ? Wilt thou say, also, that lam the

cousin of Michael Flors, who holdeth such repute

in the city as a painter?"

The man replied affirmatively, and, ushering

Francis into the ball, disappeared, to re-appear

almost immediately, with the burgomaster's compliments,

and he should seel much pleasure in

granting his request. Francis quickly followed

the servant, who led the way, and was shewn into

a handsome apartment, where the burgomaster

was seated with his wife and daughter. The keen

eye of Francis quickly detected the beauty of

Adeline, and he therefore honored her with particular

attention, which was, however, lost upon her;

for, saving one glance, she did not look towards

him — indeed, she seemed to be dull and sorrowful.

Almost immediately aster his .entrance she

prepared, with her mother, to depart. Francis

Floris, with as much grace of manner and as

much blandness of tone as he could assure, said

instantly —

Pray do not let my appearance drive you from

this apartment ; the subject of my interview with

Mynheer cannot be influenced by your presence.

Let me beg of you to remain, or I shall much regret

my intrusion."

His eloquence was, however, of no avail; the

ladies departed, and, notwithstanding what he had

said, he was pleased at it. When they had disappeared

he turned to Vanderneer and observed —

You will, I trust, pardon my having, introduced,

broken in upon your privacy ; but I wish

very much to obtain some information which I

believe you can give me, and I have so good an

opinion of your courtesy that I am sure you will

not withhold it."

A relation or friend of Michael Flors is welcome

to the best I can afford horn," returned the

burgomaster, warmly, " therefore any matter I

am acquainted with 1 shall be but too happy to

possess you with."

I thank you heartily," returned Francis. " I

will to the subject at once. I am the cousin of

your friend, and like horn, a painter. I have been

favored with his high approbation of my abilities,

and have been received most kindly by horn ; a

general invitation was tendered me, and upon visiting

horn this coming, in compliance with it, I

find that he is from Antwerp, and I atn unable to

learn whence his departure, or what its duration."

I am little fitted to be your informant, for I

cannot inform you whither he has departed," replied

Vanderneer ; " but I trust," he added, " that

his absence will be but short."

Has my fair cousin-german Agnes accompanied

horn ?" Floris enquired, without displaying

half the interest he really felt.

No, no one but Quintain .Matsys," exclaimed

Vanderneer.

At that name Francis Floris started ; he knew

it to be that of his rival, for he had made earnest

enquiry when he had beheld horn in the procession.

He repeated the name, and Vanderneer

said, hastily —

Ives — do you know horn ?"

Ives — no— that is, I have seen horn," said

Francis, rather confused.

Then you could not have seen a better or a

braver lad, travel the world through," was the

warm eulogium of the honest burgomaster.

So I am given to understand," returned Francis,

disguising his real feelings under an affectation

of frankness. "His a suitor, I believe, for the

fair hand of my cousin Agnes," he added, in the

tone of a casual remark.

There you are misinformed," replied Wanderer,

quickly. " No, no ; his affections lie another

road, 1 can tell you."

Indeed," cried Francis, quickly and eagerly,

almost forgetting his assumption of disinterestedness

in the matter.

Ay, indeed," exclaimed the burgomaster, rubbing

his hands ; "its no painter's daughter he

loves, pretty damsel though she be, and in God's

truth she is pretty enough to tempt a dampier

choice than his : but Addyy has the first claim upon

his heart — he saved her from the hands of lawless

rogues, and has loved her ever since, but for that

matter I believe he has not been alone. The

wench affects horn as much as he doth her, and

they shall wed and be a happy couple if I have

voice or influence in the matter."

May I ask, pray, without offence, who this

same lady of his choice — this Addyy, as you style

her, may be ?"

My daughter Adeline, sir," returned Wanderer,

"the best girl to her father in Christendom.

That was her you saw as you entered."

By the Holy Mass ! but methinks this same

Quintain Matsys might have been far dampier, and

yet proud of his choice," exclaimed Francis in a

while departing, he had perceived her almost, as

it were, iv bis path. The ceremony was quickly

performed, and he quitted the house, throwing

a gold piece to the porter, who immediately returned

it, informing horn that his master would

not permit horn or his fellow servants to receive

flattering tone. Vanderneer acknowledged the any gratuity. Francis returned the coin to his

compliment by a slight nod, and continued —

You might have observed, if you noticed the

silly girls countenance, that it was long drawn

and sad ; it is nothing more than because the lad

is away with old Flors, and she fears some mischance

will come to him."

If any intelligence could have been gratifying

to Francis Floris, this was essentially so ; it seemed

almost too good to be true, indeed. He immediately

remembered the expression of Agnes'

eyes, when they had lighted on our hero, and

felt satisfied that if Quintain loved another, she

at least loved him. This was no flattering conclusion

to arrive at, but he resolved not to be deterred

by it ; but to make use of the knowledge he

had thus arrived at, as much to his advantage ashe

possibly could. He did not suffer Vanderneer

to read his thoughts, but with a calm countenance

said —

When the heart of a young maiden is devoted

to one of the opposite sex, it is natural that

she should seel aggrieved at his absence ; it is a

symptom of the strength of her affection, that

would have horn ever in her sight. Doubtless she

has some friend or companion to cheer her while

he is absent."

Her mother and myself," said the worthy

burgomaster, bluntly.

I mean some female friend — some young

maiden — the young Agnes Flors, for example,"

observed Francis Floris, cunningly.

No, not she ; Agnes Flors is staying during

her father's absence with the sister and mother of

Quintain Matsys," replied Vanderneer, without

understanding the other's drift. This was matter

for further surprise on the part of Francis, but

he did not display it ; he enquired the address,

saying that he should pay his cousin a visit probably

before the day was over, and then having

obtained all the information it seemed likely that

he should gather, he bade the burgomaster farewell.

As he passed through the corridor leading

from the apartment, he saw through a half-opened

door, a young man addressing the pretty

Adeline in earnest and passionate tones, to which

she appeared to lend an attentive ear, and the

maiden exhibited some compassion. Francis had

paused for a moment to observe this little scene,

and as an excuse for his apparent rudeness, pleaded

his wish to bid the damsel farewell ; because

i pouch, and muttered, " they are not so punctilious

iv Italy." He advanced a few steps, and

then in the same murmuring tone, ejaculated —

There is some playing at cross-purposes here,

I must unravel it ; if this Quintain Matsys loves

the burly burgomaster's daughter, and by St.

Luke ! I hope she does, and she affects to return

it, then is she a jilt, or never would her face have

assumed thai expression of alarm it displayed,

when raising her eyes, she observed me regarding

her through the half-opened door. Tush ! I

must then suspect the wooden-beaded burgomaster

is the jilted party. Quintain Matsys is no fool,

that I have seen ;he would not cast away diamonds

for pearls ; he is not likely to yield the love

of Agnes for that of Adeline, who, an' I can

judge a woman's heart, hath more than a friendly

feeling to the youth who appealed with such

earnestness to her. Hum ! thus, then, it stands ;

Quintain Matsys and Agnes Flors are lovers;

Adeline and that fond youth are also a couple.

This fact is concealed from the parents of both

maidens, who have different views for their fair

daughters. Well ! both fathers are men who

will not be thwarted in their favorite project.

Good ! it must be my turn to make Agnes believe

Quintain false; the pretty Adeline, with her

dim eye and pouting lip, shall entertain the same

opinion of her swain ; Flors and Vanderneer shall

have an inkling of the real facts to spur them onto

extreme measures. .adeline shall believe

Quintain Matsys devotedly loves her; he shall be

fooled into the fancy that she pinesfor horn, though

she soars to avow it ; her swain shall kntfw her a

jilt; and I, generous, fair, and candid in my 'saviour

and appearance, shall unwilling to Agnes,

with an unwilling air, and wm her reluctant consent

to obey the imperious command of a hasty

parent, to punish the falsehood of her love. Hum !

this sounds well, now to execute it well."

The directions he had received from Wanderer,

enabled horn easily to discover the abode of

his rival. The door was opened to his summons by

Caspar Hauser. Francis Floris almost started to

see a young sturdy fellow, who was evidently no

servant, thus make his appearance, and Caspar

wondered what had brought this gallant hither.

To see Blanche, perhaps. On the instant, he felt

strong enough to give any one a trouncing who

had one thought contrary to the honor or hap-francis

Florid* COOL RECEPTION BY Agnes Flora.

pines of his beloved, and perhaps his eyes conveyed

some such intimation. Francis Floris affected

something of humility, cunningly believing

such a bearing alone would gain horn admission.

He therefore said in a smooth tone — •

This is the dwelling of Quintain Matsys ?"

It is," briefly replied Caspar.

"You are a brother of his, probably?" said

Francis, in the same smooth tone.

Not yet," returned Caspar, as laconically as

before. Francis thought the reply a strange one,

but made no comment upon it. He did not like,

however, the brevity with which, without actual

disrespect, he was treated.

You have, I believe, a maiden residing here,

whom I wish to see," he observed in his blandest

tone. Caspar thought of Blanche instantly, and

looked graver than ever at the well-trimmed gallant,

making, at the same time, a strong call upon

his memory respecting the precise spot where a

cudgel was placed that he could obtain at a moments

notice. He measured the visitor from

head to heel with his eyes, and said, slowly —

Those who reside here have names — I am not

likely to know your friends by presumption."

Justly not," returned Francis. " The maiden

is my relative, the fair Agnes Flors — if she is

here, I would fain have speech with her."

Casparss brow lightened amazingly.

She is within," he returned ; " 1 will inform

her a relative would speak with her."

He hurried up the stairs immediately, leaving

Francis alone.

She will not receive rae," he muttered, " if I

await her reply here — I may chance light upon

her in a room above. Confidence befriend mc."

So saying, he flung his jewelled cap upon a seat

and followed Casparss steps. He had only reached

the first flight, when he encountered Agnes receiving

his message from Caspar. He instantly

advanced, crc she had time to utter more than a

faint exclamation of surprise, and said —

Pardon me, fair cousin, the liberty I have

taken in intruding myself, but I am desirous of

having a few moments'converse with you ; regretting

that the absence of my kind friend, thy father,

does not enable me to do so in his presence,

and at thine own abode."

Caspar, directly he heard these words, concluded

all was correct, and that his absence was desirable.

He, therefore, immediately disappeared. Agnes

was distressed at finding herself alone with one

respecting whom her father had made such an unequivocal

communication : she believed that Francis

was well aware of her father's wishes, and, unfortunately

for his designs, such belief was sufficient

to strengthen her determination to crush his

hopes effectually, and for ever. The moment an

opportunity offered, the resolved to show horn how

undesirable was his presence, and, returning his

greeting with very great coolness, said —

You will excuse my receiving yon here — this

is the house of a friend, where I expect to be disturbed

by no visitors ; indeed, I do not consider

that I have the right. The communication you

have to make cannot be of that importance but

that it will keep until my father's return, which I

expect will shortly take place ; then you will

know where to deliver it — for the present you will

spare mc. Good morning."

Francis Floris was not of a nature to bo easily

abashed, or so lightly dismissed, when he had so

important an object in view as that which induced

his visit. He felt bitterly the stinging coldness

and the cut which he had received, but though it

Made his blood run up and do<vn like liquid fire in

his veins, he suffered no sign but that of a wounded

spirit to appear.

Stay but for a moment, and hear me," he

said ; " even this staircase will be to me as acceptable,

so that thou wilt spare me a few minutes, as

tho most superb audience-chamber."

I am engaged," said Agnes, still retiring.

Condescend me one moment — but a moment,"

said Francis, urgently. " Fair cousin, wc have

met but once previous to the present moment —

pray tell mo, hast thou heard aught, crc you saw

me, to my prejudice ? I ask you this, trusting to

your justice for a reply."

No," replied Agnes, reluctantly.

Hast thou since ?" be asked.

She replied in the negative, though, by her hesitation,

it was plain she did not feel much pleasure

in answering the question.

And yet," he said, " from the first moment

thine eve lighted on me, thou hast treated me not

only with cool disdain, but even contumely. May

1 not ask, why is this ? My patron sant knows

I am unconscious of intentionally giving you cause

of offence — I do not think, if you review my conduct,

you will find that I have done so. I am

thy cousin — a stranger to all here iv Antwerp,

save thee and thy father, and little else am I to

thee, fair cousin. I, too, have a heart — a soul,

and can feel the pangs of a wounded spirit as

deeply and painfully as the most sensitive being t

I cannot perceive thy excessive dislike to my presence

without feeling much hurt, being, as I am,

conscious that 1 have not given thee cause for

such treatment."

This was the best speech for his interests he

could have made; the generous nature of the

maiden was touched. She felt she had no actual

cause for treating horn with disdain, so far as be

was concerned, and, ever chary of wounding the

feelings of any one, she at once regretted having

acted with such repulsive coldness to her cousin.

She extended her hand instantly, which he seized

and pressed to his lips. His impulse was to have

imprinted a passionate kiss upon it, but his policy

cooled down his ardor ; and, having saluted it respectfully,

he let it fall. His conduct re-assured

her, and exhibited his shrewdness.

I am sorry if I have wounded your feelings,"

she exclaimed. " I did not intend it. I was actuated

by surmises which, I trust, have little foundation

in truth." And no sooner had she uttered

the last sentence than she would have given the

world to recal it, for she observed the strange

smile which faintly, and but for an instant, lighted

up the features of Francis. He was not yet a thorough

adept in reading the heart of woman, or he

would never have suffered a trace of that smile to

have been visible. Her heart was, iv an instant,

frozen os hard against horn as ever.

I cannot but be ignorant of thy surmises," he

replied, " but I have no thought inimical to thy

welfare. Yet do I know more respecting thee

than perhaps thou art aware of," he added. She

made no reply — did not even raise her eyes from

the oaken floor. He continued, after a slight

pause, " You will pardon, I trust, the candor of

one who would rather be esteemed a true and

faithful friend than a relative. You shall judge."

He then lowered his voice almost to a whisper.

I know that you have surrendered your affections

to the gallant Quintain Matsys. I know, toothy

father hath no glimmer to enlighten horn on

that point "

I have no desire to be acquainted with the extent

of thy knowledge," she interrupted horn, exclaiming,

in a dignified tone, " Am I to repeat,

that 1 would be alone." She moved to depart.

He, however, placed one hand upon her waist, and

the other dctaiuingly upon her arm. With au

air of indignation she disengaged herself, and said

excitedly —

If you do not instantly depart, I shall be compelled

to request your absence by another voice."

Even such a proceeding will not render me

less thy friend," he said, " for I know how powerfully

thou hast been deceived. I will, on the

instant, depart, because it is thy wish : crc, however,

I do so, hear from me, that he who hath,

doubtless, sworn fealty to thee, hath done the

same to one Adeline Vanderneer, and she, simple

maiden, hath believed him — like thee, and yielded

her heart."

I will hear no more," exclaimed Agnes, with

great hauteur ; " your communication is insulting

to my ears — your discourtesy exceeds it. I trust

wc may never meet again."

Before he could utter a reply she fled up the

stairs, leaving horn standing there alone. He gazed

after her, and then murmured —

"Wc shall meet again, haughty girl ; lam not

so lightly affronted, nor so easily turned from my

path. Thou dost affect to treat my communication

as the coinage of a malignant brain, yet art

thou no true woman if it doth not rankle in thy

heart, like the festering wound of a poisoned arrow,

and rob thee of thy peace."

He descended the stairs, took his cap from the

spot where he had placed it, and shut the door

violently after him. Moodily he turned his steps

up the street, and proceeded at a quick pace under

the impulse of excited feelings. He foresaw that,

to bring his object to bear, he should have to concert

some cunningly devised schemes, to be vigilant,

and incessantly on his guard with respect to

his own conduct. He had now gone too far, and

was satisfied that be should have difficulty to recover

the false step be had made ; nevertheless,

he determined to persevere, and, if it were in the

power of mortal, by dint of stratagem to attain

the purpose he aimed at. He vowed he would

never cease his exertions until he proved successful.

He was spurred on to perseverance by the

stinging hauteur and contumely with which Agnes

had treated him. The prospects of humbling the

haughty spirit which dwelled in so fair and delicate

a casket, were too sweet to his insulted pride

not to prove a strong incitement to persevere ; a

bitter, and so a gratifying retaliation presented

itself to his imagination in strong colors, and made

horn hug still closer his thirst, his hopes, bis eager

desire for revenge ; and yet, with such feelings

rushing through his breast like scathing flames, he

bore the most violent and passionate love for her.

It seemed a paradox that he should nurture hopes

of revenge where most he loved, yet it was so; and

he groaned as the consciousness of it struck horn

with fearful force. He felt that to have been beloved

by her would have been paradise, but this

was a train of thought he dared not pursue, for he

knew it would weaken bis resolve, He therefore

dwelled only on the bitter fact of loving where he

was spurned — of being compelled to place his

heart at the feet of one who looked upon horn with

eyes not only of contempt, but dislike almost

amounting to hatred. He clutched his fingers,

clenched his teeth, and drew his breath hard as

the conviction, with too vivid distinctness, forced

itself into his eyes and heart. Filled with such

emotions, he hurried on, he scarce knew or cared

whither, and had passed through a few streets,

when he encountered Vanderneer. A thought

struck horn, and he stopped the worthy burgomaster.



Pardon me," he said, " again intruding on you

I would have a word with you, if you will spare

me a minute."

Ten, an' you please," exclaimed Vanderneer.

I am about to visit thy cousin, and as that is not

exactly business, but a duty and a pleasure, a few

minutes will not interfere, therefore, with my purpose

or time ; so, my young limner, say what thou

hast to communicate, and thou wilt find mean attentive

listener."

*" A thousand thanks," returned Francis, with

an obliged air. "Itisof my cousin that I would

.-peak, but as it relates, I believe, to a matter of

importance, in which mere surmise should not betaken

for accredited fact, you will probably not

hesitate to give me your word that you will neither

disclose what I am about to say to you, nor

in any way proceed in the affair until conviction

and undoubted circumstances leave your path open

and unquestionable."

I have a dull head for enigmas," returned

Vanderneer. " I know how many marks make a

hundred, and can calculate a profit on goods to a

fraction ; but I profess not to dive into hidden

mysteries or intends. lam a plain man, uiyiiherr,

Floris, and I like plain straight-forward dealing. I

can never, nor will never, understand hints. What

have little opinion of the moral courage of any man

who can only communicate his knowledge of any

wrong or depravity by nods, hints, and signs ; if

you have aught to tell me wherein I am concerned,

to the matter honestly at once, or keep it

in your own breast, if it is to be delivered only in

hints."

It is because I desire to be candid and plain,

and wish that everything should be honest and

fair, that I now address myself to you upon a subject

wherein you are concerned, and that materially,"

replied Francis. " I confess," he continued,

I see little harm, or little want of moral courage,

in putting a man upon his guard respecting circumstances

or individuals of whose baseness or dishonesty

there may be no moral doubt, and yet actual

proof may be wanting : it is a mere matter of

prudence, for were the doubt to be blazoned

abroad, conviction, in all human probability, would

fail to follow. I wish to give you a simple caution,

but my request is, that you will not proceed

in the matter until you find that I have told you

the truth, and that only."

'• I am not likely to do otherwise — at least I

believe so," returned Vanderneer, " aud now for

your mysterious communication."

Francis Floris cleared his throat, aud for a moment

felt at a loss how to begin, but seeing the

you have to say, say out clearly and boldly. 1 keen eye of the burgomaster settled upon horn with

a searching look lie said, with as much self command

as he could collect —

I have just left my cousin Agnes — whose

welfare and happiness it isbutnatural I should have

at heart. From circumstances and observations

which I had heard previous lo having the pleasure

of meeting you, 1 certainly understood that the

youth who has accompanied my uncle on his journey,

this Quintain Matsys, of whom so many

mouths have spoken loudly and largely, was a

suitor for my cousins hand. It was, therefore,

with some surprise I heard you contradict, so completely,

a matter I believed settled. My surprise

was yet greater, upon my visiting my cousin, to

discover from a few remarks and actions that she

loves this smith, and he has, I fancy, made her believe

that the affection is reciprocal. Sir, I believe

this Quintain Matsys to be a villain, and, trust me,

upon his return I will uncloak horn and punish horn

as he deserves, or, if he prove himself true and

honorable, I will submit to any reparation he may

demand of me — I — "

I cannot think Quintain a villain. No— no —

there must be some mistake here," cried Wanderer,

with a bewildered air.

Hear me out," said Francis. " A singular

circumstance, which I am not at present at liberty

to mention, has satisfied me, even a few minutes

since, that he has made professions of attachment

to your daughter) and you are my authority,

and a good one," he added with a bow ;

that he has won her guileless heart ; that, in

truth, she is even now pining and grieving at his

absence. This is the sum aud substance of what

I have to communicate ; it now remains to establish

the proof, and that, I think, will be unfortunately

too easily accomplished. He cannot marry

both ; to ruin and destroy the happiness of one, if

not both, must therefore be his intention. That

he may accomplish his villanous object it must be

our duty to prevent, but that he will have succeeded

in inflicting much misery on both I fear

you will find but too surely," concluded Francis,

with a self-satisfied air. Vanderneer's face underwent

an extraordinary change os he listened to

the base communication of Floris. He hemmed,

and moved his limbs uneasily twice or thrice ; he

grasped the hilt of his sword convulsively, and at

length, looking the young painter fuel in the face,

he said —

I have known you but a few hours, and I have

known Quintain Matsys for years. Of you I know

nothing, but I never, till this moment, heard the

breath of slander attack the character of Quintain.

Fairly has he borne his good name from boyhood,

nor touch nor taint of dishonor stained it until

now ; and I must take, sir stranger, some stronger

and better evidence to make me mistrust a lad I

have honored — aye, loved like mine own child."

He dashed a gathered tear from his eyelid with his

gloved hand.

"I ask you not to believe rae," said Floris,

earnestly ; for with a quick eye he saw the staunch

coat of mail he had to penetrate crc he could raise

a thought prejudicial to Quintain in the burgomaster's

breast. " Trust to no one — to naught

but your own eyes and ears," he urged. " Wait

patiently until bis return, and then watch horn

closely ; you will chid I have not borne false witness

against him."

Now, by Heaven I" cried Vanderneer, " I

could almost submit to wrong rather than find

the free-hearted, gallant Quintain prove scoundrel.

Look you," he said, turning suddenly and rather

fiercely to Francis, " no man living, till now, ever

breathed a word in my ear to this youth's prejudice,

nor should they without trying my bonny

blade, which is something more than an ell of

steel, nor should you but that I believe you have

some interest in the maiden for whom you exert

yourself in this affair. I pass it, therefore ; but

understand — when Quintain returns, I will treat

horn as heretofore : I will harbor no loose suspicion

against one whom I never knew to deserve its

fastest breath. I will not — I do not believe horn

false; but I will let horn know that he has a detainer,

and the place of his presence shall not remain

hidden. Farewell, sir ; you may have meant

me well, but you have grieved me sorely — for the

future 'ware company, I have had something too

roach of thine."

With a constrained bow the burgomaster, with

evidently a wounded spirit, quitted him. Francis

Floris returned his courtesy amply, and pursued

the contrary path : he smiled bitterly crc he

had proceeded far.

This rare youth hath found the trick of cozening

sober imaginations," he said, " and well he

performs it. Von blunt trader in woollens and merchandise

is much inwoven in his toils, and foolishly

fancies he will not question his truth ; but

I have kindled a fire, and I have poured oil upon

it, and let horn extinguish it if he can. He trill

watch horn, and so shall Flors. St. Luke ! I will

fling horn yet,"

He returned to bis study, and busied himself

upon a painting which he hoped should still farther

ingratiate horn with the father of her he loved

with so wild, so boundless, aud, it might be, so

hopeless a passion.

CHAP. XXX.

Quintain Matsys cast his eyes round his solitary

apartment when left alone by his sable companion,

and drew small comfort from the sight it presented.

It is true there was a bed — there was the usual

furniture necessary for one tired, hungered, and

exhausted by the excitement attendant upon such

a situation as that in which he was placed. A

thousand strange and gloomy thoughts passed

in slow and solemn review before his mid, suggestive

of a short and unhappy termination to his

career ; every evil obstacle which envious circumstances

could raise to oppose his union with Agnes,

appeared in startling and formidable array before

horn, filling horn with the saddest thoughts.

He had little inclination for the supper, though it

was long since he had taken any refreshment ; he

made, therefore, but a slight repast, and their

threw himself upon the bed with the anticipation

of being again disturbed in some strange, mysterious

manner, as he had hitherto been, and the

dreary, hours passed on, finding horn still awake,

his thoughts dwelling alternately upon his beloved

and the probable situation of Flors, though the

former derived the largest share of his attention.

At length, overcome by exhaustion, he sell into a

sound slumber, to be awakened by the broad,

bright beams of the sun pouring full in his eyes.

He leaped from his bed, and a glance round the

room told horn that there had been visitors in his

room during his slumbers, for the supper had disappeared,

to give place to the materials for a

breakfast. Of this he hastily partook, and then

awaited the summons to his trial.

He several times surveyed his narrow chamber

with the hope of finding some opening through

which he could perceive what was passing on the

outside of the castle, or, at least, the nature of the

scenery around, but the light was admitted only

through a narrow window which was contiguous

to the ceiling, and too high for horn to gain a

glimpse of aught but the sky through its circumscribed

aperture ; he therefore endeavored to

govern his impatience with as much self-command

as he could press into action, and it was not long

crc he forgot his position in a fit of abstraction

which presented visions more desirable than likely

to be accomplished. He was aroused from his

reverie by a voice exclaiming, in a loud and hollow

tone—

Arise and follow me — you are now to appear

before your judges ; and be prepared to utter the

truth, and that only, as you hope for mercy hereafter."



Quintain sprung to his feet and beheld afehme-

note, fully equipped, standing a few paces from

him. There was no sign of any place by which

he had entered ; the door appeared fast as before,

and to this the stranger directed his steps. Quitting

twice or thrice during his captivity had tried

it, and sound it immoveable fast, but now with a

touch it flew open, and together they quitted the

chamber. It seemed as though the building in

which they were was principally composed of corridors,

galleries, and passages, most of there gloomy

and ill-lighted, and others plunged in complete

darkness. It was after traversing one of the latter

description that Quintain was suddenly brought

into the broad daylight. His eyes were, in an instant,

dazzled and almost blinded ; he pressed his

hands over them, and while even in this painful

condition, he was hurried forward until the

loud buzz and mvrmvr of human voices burst upon

his ear, and then he withdrew his bands, and beheld

a sight which astounded him.

He found himself in a vast court-yard, surrounded

by the ruined remains a castle which must, in former

times, have been very extensive, but evidently

had not been a residence for above a century.

The principal wings had long since fallen into decay

; many parts were in utter ruin, the bare walls

only standing ; one turret of the keep remained,

the others were dismantled, and such parts as still

existed were crowned with dark ivy. The courtyard,

with every evidence around of decay and

disuse, teemed with living beings, who might

have boon numbered in hundreds. A vast multitude

were ranged round the farthest extent of the

quadrangle, filling up the four sides. A body of

the imperial troops, divided into single soldiers,

were stationed at intervals, to preserve silence and

decorum. An inner circle was formed of a considerable

number of chopped, habited in their

grim dresses, and with masked visages. Still

nearer the centre were a line of fermented, in

their wild and strange attire, bearing in their

hands pikes and other weapons. On one side of

the quadrangle an artificial platform, or mound of

earth, had been raised, in the shape of a semicircle,

and benches ranged upon it. Exactly in

the half of this semi-circle was raised a throne,

upon which the Emperor was seated ; and on the

seats mentioned, on either side of horn, were seated

the chiefs of the various palatinate of Westphalia,

all nobles of various ranks, assembled to try the

various culprits who had rendered themselves

amenable to the laws of this fearful tribunal. All

the judges were masked, and habited in robes

somewhat similar to the high judicial functionaries

of the present day; they wore a species of cap, of

the richest velvet, upon their heads, and their

dresses, though simple, were of the richest material,

and gave tokens, disguised as were the wearers,

that they adorned the persons of men of high

station and consideration. Immediately in front

of the Emperor was a table, covered with a crimson

cloth, at which one person only was seated :

his duty was to take down, in abbreviated characters,

the evidence given by the witnesses for and

against the culprits. About the centre of this

table, on the opposite side to that at which he who

took the depositions was seated, a barrier was

raised ; it was surmounted with spikes, and served

to divide the accused from the accuser. It was

simple, and by its simplicity served to shew the

power of the Tribunal ; as, in many cases, the

most desperate and hardened criminal had the accuser

comparatively within his grasp, and was yet

debarred from raising a destroying hand, by the

sear of some dreadful punishment, he knew not

what, which would be immediately executed upon

horn by the agents of the Holy Fehm-gerichte.

Quintain looked anxiously around horn, but not

one face could he see to recognize, nor could hein

the person of any of the members of the Tribunal,

perceive one bearing aught approaching to

the form of Frank Merritt, upon whose assistance

and influence he chiefly depended for surmounting

successfully the charge against him. His

conductor hurried horn forward to the bar where

the culprits were placed, and then left him. A

dead silence reigned — not a sound was to be heard

save the sullen moan of the wind as it sighed

through the desolate halls of the ruined castle.

Every voice was hushed — every movement suspended.

The very noiselessness of so vast an

assemblage made Quintain's heart beat rapidly,

and filled horn with an awe he would have fain

resisted. He felt that every eye was upon horn,

and every nerve quivered ; but the thought of appearing

a coward in the eyes of so many caused

horn to make an instant call upon his courage. He

took heart, and raising his head with as much

boldness and firmness as he could assure, prepared

to hear and refute the charge which was to

be brought against horn, let the accusation be what

it might. Two or three minutes passed, appearing

almost an age, crc a voice was raised, and

then the being at the table, raising a document

which he had been studiously perusing, said, in a

low voice —

Quintain Matsys, of Antwerp, guilty or not

guilty, as God, the Holy Fehm-gerichte, and

your soul be judges?"

"Of what crime am I accused ?" exclaimed

Quintain, speaking loudly and boldly, though accomplished

only by an effort.

Question not, but answer," cried the interior beck

gabor, in thrilling tones, which well fitted horn to

fill the situation he appeared to bold.

I cannot answer until I know of what I am

accused,' ' said our hero ; " at least thus much I can

answer, that I am guiltless, knowingly, of any

crime against fellow being or my country."

Not guilty thou arrest ?" exclaimed the

questioner.

Quintain bowed bis head affirmatively, and placing

his hand upon his breast, said solemnly —

I swear this, as here I stand in the sight of

God and the Holy Tribunal."

Enough," returned the Emperor ; " proceed

to the accusation, and bring forward the accuser

and his proofs."

"He is charged, O most high and mighty

chief ! with treason to the Emperor and to the

state," exclaimed the masked officer at the table.

Of what class ?" enquired the Emperor.

For conspiring with a band of treasonable

men, to overthrow the state by inducing the people

of his native city to unite and rise, in conjunction

with other cities and towns, in order to dethrone

the reigning Emperor in favor of another ; and, in

addition, for cunningly devising and curiously

working, in iron, a masking, or cage in which the

Emperor was to be confined, in order to be exposed

to the gaze, and derision, and contumely of the

ignorant and unthinking rabble of every town of

importance in Germany. Thus runs the accusation.

What say you in defence, accused?"

Simply this — that it is utterly false," cried

our hero, energetically. " Let my accuser be

confronted with me, and I will dare horn to the

proof, either by witness or by single combat, were

he thrice a giant."

Let the accuser appear," said the Emperor,

quickly.

The being seated at the table, who was the

chief of an extensive district, and held this office

on account of its responsibility, referred again to

the document before horn, and said —

Here is the name of one Wilhelm Von Sturm

attached to the written accusation. Lübeck," be

added, in a loud voice, " let the accuser appear I"

A fehmenotr- instantly stepped forward, and, ina

hollow voice, answered —

He is dead !"

A moments silence followed, and then one of

the judges enquired —

How did he perish ?"

"By the hand of the Holy Tribunal !" replied

the fehmenote.

For what offence," asked the same speaker.

That of eaves-dropping while a secret council

was held by nobles here present," returned Lv-

TH! GRAND ASSEMBLY OP TUB fEHM-GERICH TB

I can testify the truth of this," said one of the

chiefs, rising and speaking in a voice which Quin-tin

recognised as that of the Baron Hainault's,

albeit Fie had been in his presence for so short a

period. "I can testify further — that he was a

wretch devoid of credit, and met a fate he long

deserved."

This speaker was listened to with great respect,

and a deferential pause succeeded his taking

his seat on the conclusion of his speech. The

chief at the table then said —

The accusation is sworn to, and though the

accuser might have been a villain worthy of death,

yet, in this case, he might have uttered the truth.

Have you any witnesses ?" he exclaimed, turning

to Quintain. " Who can prove you guiltless of

these grave charges ?"

But one, whom I know as Frank Merritt,"

replied our hero. " He, and he alone, can clear

mc. If he is present, I fear not that he will stand

forward in my behalf; if not, I resign myself to

your judgment, knowing my innocence, and believing

that some great and important cause has

kept one absent who, I have many reasons to believe,

is a staunch friend."

You have not misjudged me," said a hollow

voice.

Quintain turned, and beheld, at the barrier,

a figure which almost thrilled horn with horror.

It was that of a man of huge proportions, habited

in a tight fitting dress of dull, deep black ; vest,

hose, boots, gloves, were of the same sable color ;

upon the breast of his vest was curiously worked

a hand in bright scarlet. The head of this being

was enveloped in a vizor of the same sanguinary

color, surmounted by feathers, also of the same

sanguinary hue. Every eye was turned upon

this fearful being, and even the chiefs, whose principal

servant this new corner was, shuddered as

they gazed on the awful figure which this strange

dress made its wearer appear. The mvrmvr

which ran through the whole assembly at his sudden

appearance, ceased almost, as quickly as it was

created, and a death-like silence was lest for the

mysterious being to break. He kept the expectants

not long in suspense, but in a tone of voice

which had, in its very hollowness, a melancholy

character, he exclaimed —

O, most high and mighty chief, and ye, all-powerful

and sternly just chiefs and judges, hear

the voice of one who hath appeared many times

before ye, but never with a false or lying word

upon his tongue, or an evil deed upon his conscience.

I appear now as a friend and witness in

favor of this youth, who hath been most unjustly

accused, and whom thus I clear : — I have been

present at all the treasonable conspiracies which

arose in Antwerp at the instigation of a noble who

is about to appear as a culprit before ye. In none

did I ever meet Quintain Matsys — in none did I

hear his name mentioned — in none was he ever

alluded or referred to, directly or indirectly. The

first charge is, therefore, answered. The second

is as quickly refuted. I entered the service of

the noble whom I have already spoken of, to serve

the purposes of the Holy Fehm-gerichte — the object,

and its success, will appear anon. The design

and purpose of the iron frame originated with

the noble I served : he bade me seek a skilful

smith, and, attracted by the ability displayed in

the iron-work of a well near the cathedral of Antwerp,

and a cross called St. Catherine's without

the city gate, as well as several other works executed,

as 1 was given to understand, by one Quin-tin

Matsys, I was therefore induced to seck this

youth, engaged horn; was the cause of his

constructing this iron-work. I caused horn to visit

tho Count I have mentioned at his castle, and,

subsequently, at an inn in Antwerp, and had shore

tho satisfaction of saving horn from death, doomed

horn for refusing to raise his hand against the city

of his birth, and, eventually, against his imperial

highness the Emperor Friedrich. This evidence

will, I trust, clear horn ; later events are not referred

to in the accusation, or they would but

redound to Quintain Matsys' honor. I have said,

and, by the fearful oath of my post in the Holy

Society, I have spoken the truth."

He bowed as he concluded, and a pause ensued ;

then there was a slight movement among the

judges. Each one made a sign to the Emperor,

who, when he perceived them, made a sign to the

chief at the table ; the latter bent his head respectfully,

and then said —

There is yet another charge against him —

that of slaying a peaceful retainer of Count Von

Haalst's."

The speaker whom Quintain supposed to be the

Baron Hainault rose hastily, and exclaimed, in

earnest tones —

Of the evil of such an act all good men will

acquit him. I know horn to have killed the fellow

— if indeed he slew him — in the rescue of a maiden

whom the ruffian was about to carry off for

the accomplishment of the basest designs."

He seated himself, and again the same proceeding

was observed by the various chiefs as before,

and the Emperor communicated with the

chief at the table, who, turning to Quintain, said —

Thy trial hath ended, but thy services are required

; stand yonder until thy name is called,

and then take thy place where but now thy friend

stood."

Quintain bowed, and turned its bead to the spot

where but a moment previously he had seen Frank

Merritt, in his wild and singular costume, standing,

but he had disappeared ; and a nervous thrill

ran through our hero's frame at this fresh instance

of his mysterious friend's facility for appearing

and vanishing. Some strange thoughts respecting

the reality of his earthly nature arose, but he

dismissed them hastily, though all he had hitherto

seen, and was even now witnessing, of the proceedings

of this awful Society, was enough to excite

the most superstitious feelings. He had,

however, little time for thought, for a schmenote

led horn from the spot. They had not proceeded

many yards when he discovered himself upon the

brink of an excavation some ten feet deep, so contrived

os not to be seen until its edge was reached ;

and an apparatus was employed which caused the

person who placed his foot upon the brink to rapidly

descend, before he had time to prevent it

by springing back. Quintain no sooner perceived

the opening, than he sound himself descending

with a rapidity which placed horn at the bottom ina

second, and the apparatus having reached its

destination instantly ascended, leaving our heroin

a narrow hole which had more the appearance

and cold, dank smell of a new-made grave than

aught else. He glanced round it ; there appeared

no means of ascending, and, indeed, if there had,

his own sense of prudence would have kept horn

patiently there until he had been summoned to

appear. A square stone was affixed to the wall,

and upon this there was an inscription, which,

until his eyes became accustomed to the dim light,

he was unable to decipher. At length he read

the following words : — " Even so sudden and unexpected

is Death. You, who now stand iv the

semblance of a grave, know not how shortly thy

lifeless body may become the tenant of one. Remember

this, and Beware I The virtuous and

good are inaccessible to the Bed Hand — it is the

evil only that, must regard it with the eye of fear,

aud tremble at its presence."

And many," thought be, " have read this inscription

who could only regard it with fear and

trembling, and have, perhaps, been borne from

this earthy hole to a grave more horrifying still."

He shuddered, and wished fervently, if he was

doomed to die, though his belief in the influence

of Frank Merrill filled horn with hope, it might be

in some way with honor, and unattended either

by the secrecy or ignominy which attached to a

death from the sanguinary hand of the Fehm-ge-

richly. While busily occupied in a train of such

reflections, a door, hitherto unobserved by horn,

close to his elbow, opened without noise, anil the

masked head aud figure of iifehmenole appeared.

Ile beckoned to Quintain to follow horn ; he obeyed

and they proceeded together through a narrow

subterranean passage a short distance, and stopped

at an opening similar to the one he had just

quitted. A moment afterwards, and Quiutin

heard a voice above exclaim —

Let the witness appear."

That moment the earth trembled under him.

and arose, bearing horn swiftly to the surface.

Once more he stood in the presence of the assembly,

but found that he was upon the opposite side

of the barrier to thai on which he was stationed

to take his trial ; but iv his place stood the Count

Idenberg, so changed, so altered, he could scarce

recognize him. 1 1 is face was wan and ghastly ;

his eyes deeply sunk in his head and looking fiery

aud inflamed ; his lips were white, thin, and

parched; his hair straggling aud in disorder, and

his whole aspect was completely changed from

the rude, robust, fiery, haughty noble, to the

wretched, haggard victim of a despair which knew

not one gleam of hope. His wild eyes glared

fearfully, yet assrightedly, round ; aud when they

alighted upon the clear, fresh, though anxious

features of Quintain, a growl of malignity escaped

him. lie had already been subjected to a series

of questions in connection with evidence of various

crimes charged against horn, and Quiutin

was now produced to give substantially the same

evidence he had previously given before the Council

of Three. The Count Idenberg muttered continually

during the lira our hero answered the

questions put to horn by the chief at the table —

"It is false — he lies. The churl hath sworn

false evidence against me; he shall meet a perjurer's

fate."

He was several times sternly commanded to silence,

which he scarcely obeyed. When our hero

had concluded his evidence, which included every

circumstance connected with his meetings and

personal knowledge of the Count, even to the

storming of the watch-tower and liberation of

Flors, he was commanded to retire, and was

conducted to the same place as before, while the

evidence against the Count proceeded. As Quiu-

tiu disappeared, the noble exclaimed, in a harsh,

guttural voice —

"Is this the evidence you bring against me ? A

base slave ! who would swear lo the truth of the

vilest falsehood ever coined for a few guilders.

Am I to be convicted and doomed upon his evidence,

which is but hearsay ?"

'• Fear not, Count Idenberg," returned the

chief at the table, " but strict justice will be done

thee. There is yet other, and more important

evidence to be produced against thee."

Let me hear it," he cried, eagerly, "let me

see my accuser. 1 dare — I defy them all ; they

Are suborned and perjured. I swear, by "

Peace !" cried the chief, sternly, " wc are the

judges of the truth or falsehood of what wc hear.

Peace ! and reply not until au answer is expected

of thee."

The Count became silent, and the next instant

started and staggered back as his eye glanced on

the figure of Faust of the Red Hand, who appeared

as a fearful spectre suddenly before him.

His face became ashy pale — white as it had previously

been ; his teeth chattered, and his limbs

trembled like au aspen ; he cowered, and looked

the victim of the most fearful apprehensions. The

voice of the chief at the table was then heard,

saying—

"Speak what thou knowest against this man,

even from the commencement of thy transactions

with horn unto the last."

Frank bowed his head, and said, in a voice

which, with a thrill of horror, the Count recognised

as that of Frank Merritt 's —

It is scarce two years since I sound my way,

from information I had received, to a drinking

house in Brabant, the resort of the lowest and

vilest characters. 1 overheard a drunken ruffian

blasting of his exploits ; among other feats, he

confessed to the murder of the Countess Idenberg,

and I wormed from horn that it was dine at the

command of the Count. This man you will find

in the records I marked for pursuit and arrest.

Very nearly at the same period I ascertained,

from one of the chopped under my immediate

command, that, this same Count harbored treasonous

designs against the State, in common with

several others, to depose the present Emperor, and

substitute in his stead the Grand Duke Lladislaus

or the Grand Duke Estevan. As I had more

than one object in view in becoming possessed of

every secret thought, wish, and act of the Count,

I, with the permission of our Holy Council, presented

myself to horn as a man who was by nature

of a free, roving spirit, and possessed immense influence

over the peasantry and lower classes of

Flanders. My design succeeded — I was taken

into his service, and became entrusted with all I

sought for. To support my character truly, 1

was compelled to appear that which I was not —

to acquiesce tacitly, and countenance acts foreign

to my nature and habits. It was an arduous task,

filled with difficulties and chances of discovery ;

and an effort to save the life of a youth from

the Count's fangs, somewhat prematurely discovered

to horn that I wa 3 not the friend he supposed

mc. I did not, until afterwards, effectually succeed

in my object, but here are the papers necessary

to convict horn of treasonable conspiracy with

proposal to the Grand. Duke Lladislaus, which is

ostensibly a mere request to assist in extending

the power of the nobles of the land over the peasantry,

but which is actually, and will be found to

bo on careful perusal, a proposition to dethrone

the Emperor, and place in bis stead one who will

recognise no beings in the country but the nobility.

The Grand Duke Lladislaus alone knows how far

he placed the true construction upon the document,

and will, doubtless, explain it to the Emperor

; but the papers fully prove the ambitious

and treasonable designs of the Count, in support

of which there are several witnesses. There is

the murder of several peasants and others, which

can be proved to have been inflicted by the hand

of the Count, or at his instigation. These, however,

must give place to the more appalling one of

his wife — brief, but terrible, is its history. Listen.

The late Countess was the daughter of the Baron

Rüdesheim; she was left an orphan early, and

was brought up in the castle of the late. Count

Idenberg with his daughter and two sons — the

present worthy Baron Hainault and the accused

at my side. The Baron and this orphan maiden

loved each other, though neither knew the fact. — "

There was a slight mvrmvr among the assembled

judges, as though one of there had suddenly

started from his seat ; but, in an instant, the

usual immoveable calmness was resumed, and

Faust continued —

The Count Idenberg also loved this maiden,

but not with the same honorable feeling as his

brother ; but found that to address her with aught

but an honorable suit would have been unavailing.

He was not long in ascertaining that her heart

had been gained by his brother. He was cunning

and active too ; he persevered in watching, noting,

and probing his brother, until he found the love

was reciprocal, but that no confession had been

made on cither side. His first step was to declare

his passionate love for the maiden : he was rejected.

He, however, appealed to her naturally

gentle heart, to her gratitude for his family's kindness

to her, and, at the same time, contrived to

inform her that his brother was deeply in love

with a fair lady of high blood, whom he soon

would wed. He did not at that time obtain an

answer lo his suit, but he lost no time in telling

his brother of his love, and that it was returned by

the maiden. The Baron Hainault believing

horn, scrupulously refrained from addressing her,

fearing to step between his brother and his love

and eventually withdrew himself from the castle

to mix in scenes of a more stirring nature. The

Count Idenberg took the opportunity of his abs

sence to renew his suit with tears and protesta-the

(Aiand Duke Estevau ; and there is also a ! pious, aud succeeded iv obtaining a reluctant consent

from the young baroness Rüdesheim to become

his wise. At this lime his sister had a suitor in a

rich noble, and, as she accepted horn, both marriages

were solemnized on the same day. 'I he Baron

Hainault generously, though the elder brother,

yielded the title and estates of Idenberg to his

brother in the event of his father's death, in order

that she Count might be enabled to maintain his

wife in ease and splendor. At the expiration of a

year a child was born to the Count, the fair Lady

Meta ; she had not reached many months crc her

likeness to the Baron Hainault was observed by

all who beheld her, and the older she grew the

greater the likeness became. A thousand horrid

thoughts took possession of the Count's blind :

the pensive melancholy of the Countess, as much

arising from her nature as from her early disappointment,

was attributed to other and worse motives.

The opportunity of allying himself to the

daughter of a neighboring noble of exceeding

wealth now presented itself; the lady was beautiful,

but of unsettled character, and "careless with

whom she wedded so that her love of display was

satisfied. The Count Idelibetg burned to obtain

her and her wealth ; by nature unscrupulous, he

looked around horn for means to accomplish his

object. The commission of a minor crime brought

the ruffian Steinhart beneath his notice, and it required

little to plan and execute tho murder of the

Countess, which was accomplished as described

in tho confession of the villain who performed the

deed, which you have, duly attested, laid before

you. These papers which I now produce, are a

private register of thoughts acknowledging the

real state of her affections, and a portrait of the

Baron painted by herself "

Let me see them," exclaimed one of tho

judges, in a tone of great emotion, and staggered

forward to the chief at the table, who gave them

into his hands. He seized them convulsively,

aud retired to his seat ; while Faust, who had

remained respectfully silent, continued —

I obtained these papers from Steinhart, who,

believing me to be a ruffian like himself, placed

them in my hands to make them the source of a

scries of exactions from the Count. 1 have, however,

applied them as you perceive, to a very

different purpose."

The Countess," he added " had scarcely been

murdered crc she was discovered by a vassal of

the Count's ; the body was warm, but the villain

Steinhart had done his work too surely for any

resuscitation to be effected. The Count pretended

the greatest affliction on the discovery of the body,

and offered the most enormities reward for the

murderer ; yet she had not been long deposited

in her tomb crc he made his proposals of marriage

to the nobles daughter on whom he bad cast his

eye. He was accepted, and the day arrived for

the ceremony to be performed ; but as they proceeded

to the chapel for that purpose a sudden

storm, accompanied by thunder and lightning,

came on, and the lady was, by a thunderbolt,

struck dead from her horse. The Count who

rode by her side was stunned, and it was long cache

recovered ; two attendants were killed, and the

whole party were thrown into a state of fright and

confusion. Thus heaven, with its just and wrathful

hand, prevented the accomplishment of the

design for which so frightful a crime had been

committed. This, though an awful warning, had

not the effect of checking a career so infamously

commenced : the castle and estates, together with

the whole of the wealth of his brother-in-law,

were, by a special act of agreement upon his

sister's marriage, to pass to horn in the event of

the death of his sister and her husband without

issue ; and being frustrated in one project, the

Cotint Idenberg set his mid upon obtaining

wealth from some source, in order to carry out

an ambitious project he had formed. He remembered

the agreement I have mentioned, and very

shortly after this the brother-in-law was killed —

it was said by a fall from his horse while hunting,

but I have here proofs as well as a witness, though,

I own, a reluctant one, to shew that lie was drawn

from his companions by a stratagem and basely

murdered — "

'Tis false," shouted Count Idenberg hoarsely.

I will prove its truth," replied Faust. " That

crime stood not alone ; there were still two persons

who stood between horn aud the property, and

a plan was concerted to remove both at one blow

it was his sister and her child "

A groan, one of the bitterest anguish, escaped

from horn who had taken the papers and the portrait

from the chief at the table.

He lies," growled Idenberg, with clenched

teeth and hands. ** I did not murder her."

To both he determined upon administering

poison — a slow, subtle, but sure working poison —

one that brought certain death in the shape of a

deadly decline, but lest no mark to say that poison

had there done its work. To the unfortunate

lady it was administered by a villanous agent,

but the ruffian's heart failed horn when the

laughing, fair-haired boy proffered horn a kiss

as he took the deadly mixture from his hand.

The fiend had not so granted his ruthless fangs

upon the knave's soul that he could do murder

upon an innocent child while its little lips offered

such a return ; he dashed the mixture

from the child's hand and fled. Soon after this

the fated lady died, and the Baron Hainault took

the child to bring horn up. No harm could come

to horn while under that nobles protection. Count

Idenberg, however, by the production of a forged

will, obtained possession of the castle and its estates,

and left the boy to the bounty of the brother.

I am in possession of other crimes, but I await

the adjudication of the Holy Tribunal on this

matter crc I proceed to detail them. I swear, as

I hope for the face of Heaven to be turned on me

now and for ever, that I have spoke naught but

the truth. Will it please you examine ray witness?"



The judges conferred by signs, and transmitted

their conclusion by a symbol to the Emperor,

who apparently acquiesced in their views. Ho

communicated with the chief of the table, who

said to Faust —

"O, trusted and faithful servant, the Holy

Tribunal have little need of other evidence than

thine, knowing thee to be governed only by the

strictest sense of justice ancf truth i but that the

haughty Count may not suppose he has not impartial

justice administered to horn, let the witness

appear."

Frank instantly disappeared, and a man, wretched

in aspect and terrified in demeanor, took his

place. He gazed fearfully round horn until his

eyes lighted on the Count Idenberg ; then a hectic

flush appeared on his checks, and his eye glistened

like a coal.

My death here, and my damnation hereafter,

be upon thy head," he cried. " You instigated

me to crimes for which my body perished miserably

here, and my soul eternally hereafter. My

bitterest withering curio cling like a fiery shroud

to thee—"

Silence, man I" cried the chief at the table.

Thy hours are numbefed^employ them not in

cursing ; speak only In reply to the questions put

to thee, and answer them truly, as you hope to escape

the most horrible torture. Remember the

truth is known to us, and evasion or falsehood

will draw upon yon a dreadful fate which nothing

can avert."

The man, awed by the tone and position of horn

who addressed horn, remained silent uiitil questions,

relating to the crime which Fflust had already

detailed, were put to horn, and those he

answered so clearly, so corroboratively, that nota

shadow of doubt was left, lie was dismissed,

and then the chief, having gathered the ultimatum

of the judges, expressed in the same silent terms

as before, said in a slow, clear, solemn voice —

The Holy Fehm-gerichte, which never since

its institution committed an act of injustice, but

has done honor to the virtuous and deserving, and

punishment on the evil, the criminal, and the unworthy,

have found you guilty of the crimes imputed

to you. They do not strive to enter further

into the catalogue of thy misdeeds than they

already have, for enough has been proved to ensure

thy fate. What hast thou to say, that the

red hand of the Fehm-gerichte should not grip

thee ?"

The Count seemed almost unconscious of what

was said, but at length, on being urged to speak,

said —

The villains whom ye have heard are forsworn

1 am innocent. — I can get no justice here. He

who sits on your benches there," be added, point

one of the judges, " my brother, the Baron

Hainault — he Ib the cause of this vile accusation.

He hath led you to listen to base, hired ruffians —

he who has stolen my daughter from roe for the

purpose of murdering her, that all my possessions

may become his. This he knows. She is my

Otlly child — the only bar to his being the sole

possessor of the whole of my wealth. Horn 1 accuse

of her murder, unless he now produce her."

All eyes were turned upon the judge, who instantly

arose and said, in a voice which trembled

with emotion —

It hath pleased God to make us the children

of one parent, and it may appear that 1 fly in the

face of Horn who made us, were I to disclaim hir n;

but in my heart he hath no place. I shudder at

his crimes — I view his conduct, his thoughts, his

principles with loathing. I could not find in roy

soul one emotion that would lead me to plead for

mercy to the Holy 'Tribunal in his behalf, to mitigate

or shew its mercy in one small degree. The

only answer 1 have to his wicked charge is this: —

his daughter Meta treated unkindly, immured

like a slave, impelled by her own earnest wish, requested

me to take her under my protection — not

more to escape the affectionate behaviour of

her Unnatural parent than the fate he had doomed

her to — that of wedding her to one equal, if not

surpassing horn, in crime. She is wedded to her

cousin Adolf, of whose possessions her father has

unrighteously dispossessed horn, and is residing with

horn, at the castle of the Count Liebenstein, a noble

whom all Germany know only to honor. The

Count Liebenstein will be my witness that she is

as happy as mortal can hope to be "

"My wildest, bitterest, curses upon her,"

shrieked Idenberg.

Peace !" cried the Emperor, arising and addressing

the Count in a stern voice. " Peace !

irreverent old man I Wc know thou hast spoken

the truth," he added, turning to the Baron Hain-

aunt ; " be thou seated, and fear not the word of so

bad a man can move us to evil thoughts of thee.

Count Idenberg, from this hour thought stripped

of thy nobility and thy possessions, which wc return

to our keeping for a future and, wc trust, a

wiser disposal ; thy name shall be erased from our

list of nobles, and thy escutcheon destroyed, and

never more be borne by mortal. It is our decree."

The emperor seated himself as he concluded,

and the chief arose.

Beggared and nameless, depart, from hence ;

thy life is forfeit to the Holy Tribunal. There is

no hour so dark, nor place so secure, that shall

shield thee from the dagger of the Fehm-gerichte;

in plain, on hill, in forest or wood, in grove or

valley, in fastness or heath, in castle or ship board,

by stream or desert waste, thou shalt not be removed

from the terrible fate hovering over thee.

The dagger may come in the hour of despair, or in

the first moment a smile crosses thy lips ; among

men or alone, nor masses of beings nor solitude

can save thee. Thou must die by the dagger and

the cord. Go hence, and breath not to mortal

what has here transpired, nor, the fate awaiting

thee ; for even while the first word is on thy lips

shalt thou be struck down. An invisible companion

will be with thee wheresoever thou goes.

Go — thou art doomed !"

As the last words escaped the chief's lips, three

fehmenoles sprung upon the wretched man, covered

horn with a cloak, and hurried horn from the

spot. 'They conveyed horn through an archway,

and he was speedily lost to sight lie had scarcely

vanished crc another prisoner stood at the bar ; it

was the Count Von Haalst. He was paler than

usual, but endeavored with a haughty air to cover

whatever apprehensions he might feel. The

chief addressed horn by his name, and puttheusual

question to horn respecting his guilt. He smiled

contemptuously, and said —

As a member of your Tribunal, I claim to

know my accuser ; to meet horn face to face ; to

hear his charge from his own lips."

No claim nor law of the Holy Tribunal shall

be infringed," exclaimed the chief. Let horn

appear."

A man with a steel visor covering head and

neck, appeared instantly in the place appropriated

to witnesses. Count Von Haalst regarded horn

with scorn until he slowly disclosed his face — one

which was wan and haggard. The Count was

wholly taken by surprise ; he started back with a

shriek of horror, and covered his eyes with his

hands. For a moment he appeared convulsed,

but a minute afterwards he withdrew his hands,

and, with eyeballs nearly starting from his

head, he looked on the stranger, who spoke in a

hollow tone.

You stabbed me, and flung me into the Rhine ;

but I was seen, and saved, to appear against you."

The Count drew his breath hard. He looked

around horn, and then, with a struggle which few-men

would have been equal to, he stood erect,

I

IrffisV- V

THE FATE OF COUNT VON HAALST.

and in a cold and indifferent tone, exclaimed —

I know you not,"

I will make thy memory like a mirror of burning

steel," slowly and bitterly returned the man.

I was thy seneschal, Rupert— thy partner, thy

assistant and executor of many a hellish crime ;

and here, in the face of the Holy Tribunal, and

before God, I charge thee with being a parricide 1

I saw thee do the dreadful deed, and call upon the

Holy Fehm-gerichtu to avenge one of the noblest

and most virtuous nobles that ever graced Germany."



Hast thou a witness to prove thy words ?"

exclaimed the Count in a sneering tone. "This

wise and just assembly will not take the unsupported

evidence of a slave like thee, in so grave

a charge against one of its chiefs. Produce, liar,

if thou canst, the proofs which substantiate my

guilt."

"It is an easy task," exclaimed the man, and

drew from his vest a scroll and a dagger — the one

picked up in the dungeon of Von Haalst's castle.

A sew of thy viDan.es had, by an accident," he

continued, " become known to thy father. He

remonstrated with thee, and that fiercely. An

affectation of deep penitence and atonement on

thy part quieted horn, until he became acquainted

with the ruin of a young maiden on his estate by

thee ; she was betrothed to one who afterwards

proved a reckless villain — one who served thee

only to further the purposes of a deadly revenge

Ruprecht Steinhart. Thy father swore to discard,

disinherit, disown thee. Angrily didst thou

retort, and in the height of ungovernable passion

didst thou stab horn with this dagger. Encrusted

it is with his blood. 1 entered the room as the

blow was struck, and prevented its repetition. I

dragged thy wounded parent to a chamber in the

western turret, one which was known but to few

of the domestics, and had been wed by you for

the vilest purposes. Here in secret I tended horn,

while you hourly expected his death to ensue,

gave out that he had quitted the castle mysteriously

and alone, and caused a search to be made

for horn where you knew he never could be found.

He lingered on too long for the gratification of

your insatiate desire, to become lord of she domains,

and therefore you administered poison to

him. Even that did its work slowly. He had

time to write a full account of your deed, which

he entrusted to ray care for different purposes

to that which I applied it ; but now it performs the

duly for which he devoted it." He placed the

scroll in the hands of the chief at the table, and

continued — " 1 shrived horn, and he died with a

curse and thy name, coupled on his lips. He was j

buried under a large flagstone in the centre of a j

dungeon in thy castle. When this last task was

performed, you circulated the report that you had

heard of his death by accident in the Rhine, while

laboring under a temporary fit of insanity. There

existed no proofs to the contrary, excepting those

which 1 bore, and the report was believed. You

have hitherto remained unpunished, but now the

long delayed award for thy guilt is at hand.

Tremble !"

Let those who have cause for soar tremble," exclaimed

Von Haalst, who listened with an expression

of cold scorn alone visible upon his features.

Your story is cunningly coined, but it needs

substantiating. I have too much faith in the

wisdom of this Holy Tribunal to fear that an unsupported

accusation of a wretch like thee will be

credited, or endanger my position ; thou hast no

proof to shew that 1 did commit the crimes with

which thou hast so basely charged me, and even

the Fehm-gerichte, arbitrary as is its power, will

not find me guilty without some testimony worthier

of belief than thine. I despise thy charge,

and dare its proof."

He folded his arms, and gazed coolly and fearlessly

upon the assembled chiefs. The Chief who

presided at the table unrolled the scroll which

the witness against Von Haalst had placed in his

hands, and perused it. When he had concluded,

he turned his face towards the judges, and said —

There are among ye, chiefs, several who personally

knew the late Count Von Haalst, and

probably are acquainted with the style aud manner

in which he formed hi.; written characters. Those

best capable of attesting the truth or falsehood

will peruse this document, and deliver to the

Holy Tribunal here assembled their judgment

upon it."

That can I," said the Baron Hainault, rising.

I have received many missives from tho late

Count, whom I honored aud esteemed most highly.

I have here several documents in his hand-writing,

which you can compare with tho one now received,

and detect easily whether this man hath

spoken truth aud delivered a genuine deed, or

to gratify some private motive of revenge, he has

executed this paper in the semblance of the

Count's haud."

"He received the scroll from the hands of the

chief aud, drawing forth several papers, he compared

them closely aud accurately. He then

passed them to many of the judges round horn,

who examined them with the same attention,

and ultimately they were handed up to the Emperor,

who, after a minutes comparison, forwarded

them with a sign to the chief at the table.

He, too, scrutinized them with care, and then

placed them before hir n; he raised the dagger

and inspected it, and then said —

Count Von Haalst, the decision of the

judges and our high and mighty president respecting

the genuineness of the document produced

against you is formed ; this dagger, it is averred,

you plunged into the breast of thy father — it bears

thy name, and is encrusted in blood — too fearful

and accurate a testimony to be doubted "

1 deny, solemnly, the charge — it is base, malignant,

and false," interrupted Von Haalst;

that scrawl is a forgery, and the dagger— though

it may be one of mine — though it may bear my

name, yet is not fair and tit. evidence — as your

sense of justice will compel you to acknowledge

when 1 swear to you it has been stolen and, doubtless,

dabbled in blood to be used as now it is. I

repeat I am guiltless of the charge, and dare and

defy all good and actual proof of guilts

You shall have justice iv its strictest and

sternest form," said the chief, in marked and deliberate

tones — " you shall not be condemned unless

proved guilty of the crimes imputed to you;

and you, who best know how clear your conscience

is of the stain, will know with what feelings

to await the result of the remaining evidence to

be produced against you."

"I scorn it," returned Von Haalst, with a

forced calmness, though he turned his eyes anxiously

to the witness to see what new evidence he

had to bring forward.

You have stated that he stabbed yon and flung

your body into the Rhine," said the chief, addressing

the witness; "have you proof of this,

and can you explain the cause for the perpetration

of such an act ?"

1 have spoken the truth, and attested it by

an oath that consigns my soul to everlasting perdition

if I have spoken falsely," returned the man.

After the murder of his father he believed I

was the only being existing who was acquainted

with his guilt; he loaded me with presents, he

cajoled me with promises, and, by a stratagem,

he one night drew me to the top of a steep rock —

a portion of the same mass upon which his castle

stands. The night was dark and stormy, and

the howling of the wind was well calculated

to drown the cry of one being murdered. The

Count appeared well to understand it, Tor he

chose this night for my murder, to bury with me

all living proof of his accursed crime. He spoke

to me with his usual affectation of kindness, and

even while littering some great promise, I saw

horn draw his dagger from his belt. For an instant

it glittered in the air, and a moment after

it was buried in my breast. I shrieked,

and fell. lie did not, however, intend to do

his work by halves ; he immediately raised my

bleeding body from the ground — a deadly faintness

overpowered me — I had no means of resisting

horn, and he cast me from the rock into the rapid

and turbid waters of the Rhine. I felt the cold

chilling waters embrace me — I sunk within their

depths, and further recollection ceased, until I

found myself upon a bed in a humble cottage. A

member of" your holy Tribunal had seen the blow

struck, and my body hurled from the height — die

hastened to my rescue and saved mc."

The-it-hiip/ien, who had performed the act, was

summoned to appear, and his evidence, when he

obeyed the summons, corroborated fully the charge

made by the seneschal. Von I laalst grew a shade

paler as he listened to the examination of this new

witness, but still preserved his haughty demeanor.

The list of Crimea was added to by this prisoner,

by those of a minor character. Among

the last, was the charge of carrying off the daughter

of Miciiaid Flora the painter, to support which

Peter Vanderwesel appeared. He swore* to

having seen the maiden borne from the but by

Von Haalst ; following them until he obtained her

rescue through the Baron Hainault — the latter

confirmed this assertion. When this charge was

fully proved, two chopped appeared, having in

their custody sour men, whom they had followed

to Antwerp from the rustle of the Count Von

Haalst, and prevented them attempting the abduction

of Agnes Flors and Blanche Matsys ;

which, by a well concerted scheme, they had purposed

doing. These men finding themselves prisoners

before the awful tribunal, readily confessed

that they had been employed by the Count, not

only to capture the maiden, but to murder Quintain

Matsys, and, if necessary, the old painter. The

evidence was clear, conclusive, anil thoroughly

established. The judges having conferred again,

gave their silent, but fearfully expressive sign, to

the Emperor, who quickly communicated it. to the

chief at the table. The Count appeared to understand

it. — his nostrils were inflated, his teeth

were clenched hard, and his whole frame appeared

to undergo an inward convulsion as he observed

it : but, by a powerful effort, he suppressed tip

emotion, and stood calm and cold as before.

".Aldebert Von Haalst, Count no longer," said

the chief, in the same thrilling tones in which he

had delivered the doom of the Count Idenberg,

the holy Tribunal have found you guilty of the

crimes with which you are charged — they have

given you a fair trial, and, upon evidence the most

undoubted, found their verdict. Your crimes;

have been manifold, and contrived with such cunning

stratagem as hitherto to elude the all-vigilant

eye of the holy Tribunal, of which you wert*

so unworthy a member ; but even the most skilfully

and artfully designed scheme will be exposed

by heaven,, when it is conceived and executed for

purposes so base, so monstrous as those of which

you have been guilty. The great crime which

thou hast committed, hath no palliation. Thou

lightest have given the blow under the greatest

provocation, hadst thou been an injured party;

lull thyself criminal, and Urged to the path of virtue

by the voice of a parent) whose soul was all

honor, whose name was spotless — thou even then

didst barbarously stab horn, and afterwards did

cruelly and wickedly administer slow and subtle

poison, which compassed his death, aud blotted

thee out for ever from the pages of mercy here,

aud in the world to come, as Pahkicidk I

"Parricide! listen and tremble — thought

doomed to death — thy estates and land, so basely

obtained, pass away to those whose virtue and

honor are unquestionable ; and thou, miserable

wretch, shall perish as fits one who has broken all

laws, human and sacred. Thou wert a member

of our Holy Tribunal, and bath fearfully perjured

thyself ; for a tremendous oath didst thou swear

that all thy actions should be guided by honour

aud virtue, and thou wouldst not only support them

thyself, but enforce their observance in others.

PARRICIDE ! You have, in all ways, forfeited

thy criminal existence ; but, as a member of our

dread community, thy death will be trebly fearful.

Depart ! — there is no hope for thee from

now lo all eternity !"

Ere he could utter a word in reply — and by

the movement of his white parched lips it was

evident he purposed saying something — he was

seized by the sclutppen, and hurried swiftly away.

The next prisoner to be tried, was the Grand

Duke Estevan ; but terror had done its work upon

him — he was dead. His confinement in the

horrible and solitary dungeon of the Pfalz had

been more than his frame — already wasted by dissipation,

aud the sickening horror of expecting to

see, at every turn, in the still hour of the night,

the red baud of Faust, bearing a dagger to plunge

iv his heart — could bear. He had worked himself,

in his solitary cell, to a pitch of madness, and

under its terrible influence beat out his brains

against its cold damp walls unseen, unheard. As

soon as this communication had been made,

and the thrill of horror it had excited passed away,

Quintain Matsys was summoned from the secret

place, where he had awaited the pleasure of the

Holy Tribunal, and upon making his appearance

at tho barrier, perceived, with some surprise and

no little gratification, that Michael Flors was

there. Each glanced at the other with a pleased

look of recognition, but crc they had time for

more the chief at the table addressed them.

Michael Flors, and you, Quintain Matsys,

both of Antwerp," he exclaimed, in a loud voice,

you haveJjoth been brought beneath the notice

of the HolyaTribunal as having been guilty of

treason to the State ; and you, Quintain Matsys,

as having, in addition, slain a retainer of one no

longer a noble. The Holy Tribunal have patiently,

truly, and closely investigated the charges,

aud find them to be false, base, and malicious ;

you are both, therefore, free to depart whence aud

whither thou mayst, and may bear with thee the

satisfaction of knowing that, though watched and

hovered over by the members of the Holy Fehm-

gerichte, it will be for thy preservation and

protection so long as thou dost abstain from crime

and evil deeds. But remember, crc thou dost

depart, thou must both swear by all that is divine,

by all that thou dost hold dear in this world, as

you hope to be free from sudden and certain

annihilation, that you will not reveal to wife,

child, father, mother, brother, sister, friend, mortal,

Are, wind, all that the sun shines on, and the

rain covers, all that is between the sky and ground,

what you have seen and heard this day aud

previous to this hour respecting the proceedings

of the Holy Fehm-gerichte. If thou dost break

this oath, no earthly power can stand between

thee and death. — Swear kneeling, as I shall

dictate."

Both Quintain and Michael Flors took the required

oath, and then were led from the assembly

through secret passages until they were ushered

into a comfortable apartment, supplied with handsome

furniture. Upon table stood refreshments,

of which they were invited by the scope who

conducted them to partake.

Eat and drink, and commune together without

fear ; you are free of attaint, and under

the special protection of the Holy Tribunal," exclaimed

the scope, and as he concluded retired

leaving them together. As soon as they were

alone they congratulated each other upon the

result of the trial, and sat themselves down, to the

meal with a keener appetite than they had for a

long time previously experienced. As they discussed

the meal, Quintain obtained from Michael

Flors an account of what had transpired during his

absence from him. It seems that he had an interview

with the Emperor Freiderich, who received

horn graciously, and referred to the time when he-had

spent many pleasant hours with horn, stating

his conviction that the remembrance of that time

alone would have preserved the painter faithful to

him. He confessed his disbelief of the charge,

I and bade Flors not fear for the result of the trial.

He then changed the subject, and for some hours

spoke only of the art to which'thc old painter was

so devoted. It was near dawn when they separated,

and Flors sought the pallet assigned horn,

considerably relieved from the-anxiety to which he

had been previously subjected. UpH. making his

appearance before the Assembly, not much reference

was made to his own case, but everything

that could be elicited from horn respecting Quiutin

Matsys and the Count Von Haalst was drawn

forth, and when he had told all he knew he was

ordered to retire to await the judgment which

was delivered to horn with Quintain. There ended

his account. Our hero expressed his wonder that

he himself had not been called upon to give further

evidence against Von Haalst, and delivered

himself with so much bitterness that Michael Flors

could not but notice it ; it exceeded the warmth

of one actuated alone by friendship, and he made

an allusion to it, which had the effect of recalling

Quintain to his recollection. He evaded the

question by expressing his natural abhorrence for

all men whose guilty passions rendered them as

destitute of every good principle ns the Count, and

added that his disgust and scorn were heightened

when he saw the object of their baseness was an

innocent and comparatively defenceless maiden.

Not exactly defenceless where you are, good

Quintain," observed the old painter with a smile.

Nor ever should be," he returned, with emphasis.



I believe it," ejaculated the painter. "I believe

it. Certes ! I have good reason and foundation

for my opinion, and so hath thy bride elect,

the fair Adeline Vanderneer."

My bride elect," echoed Quintain, with an embarrassed

air. " I fear you are laboring under

Not I, not I," laughed the old man. " I know-all

— nay, why shake your head and look abashed,

man ; there is no disgrace in loving a good and

handsome girl, and there is <no shame in acknowledging

it."

But I assure you, " urged Quintain.

Tut, tut," jeered Flors, "thou need'st not deny

it — I admire thy choice, it docs credit to thy taste

there, there, look not so solemn know it is

to be, and so well say no more about it."

He changed the subject as he spoke, very much

to Quintain's relief, and discoursed upon his art.

There was not a question which could bear upon

its pursuit and accomplishment which Quintain did

not ask. Designing, coloring, management — all

that the experience of one well versed in so beautiful

and delicate an art could be supposed to command

lie drew forth, and treasured up as words to

be engraved on his memory as though it were a

table of adamant and inerasabk*. The hours flew

by until fast approaching darkness told them the

day was merging into night. Their solitude had,

since their being ushered into the apartment, remained

unbroken, and now when the grey twilight

invested everything around with its thin, misty

veil, they looked expectantly for some change ;

none, however, came, until all trace of the sun

and his light had disappeared, and then, after

having for some time been lost in a darkness which

the eye sound impossible to penetrate, they became

instinctively*aw-arc of the presence of one of

the mysterious members of the Secret Tribunal.

He uttered the usual brief command for there to

follow horn which they complied with, though with

great difficulty ; for the deep gloom was but

slightly dissipated by a dim light borne by their

conductor in some manner which was to there invisible.

They were traversing narrow passages ;

then wide corridors and halls — occasionally descending

wide staircases, and ascending others

broken and narrow ; at times their path lay along

an even marbled passage, and immediately after

they would stumble over the rugged broken pavement

of a disused vestibule. Several times they

tracked their leader along an open pathway, the

darkness of the night preventing them from ascertaining

the character of the scenery around ; and

then once more they plunged through the intricacies

of subterranean passages until they stopped

at length — after ascending several flights of

steps till Flors, at least, had grown weary — at

the door of an apartment. It opened with a

touch. They entered, and on looking round

them, saw that this room communicated with another

; both were comfortably furnished — each

contained a bed, and the general appearance was

such at to lead them to believe that they were yet

to be detained. They both turned for an explanation

to their conductor, but saw only the closing

door which covered his form as he departed, and

again they were alone. They exhausted conjecture

for the reason of their detention. Partaking

of the refreshment prepared for there, they retired

to rest as resigned as they could, hoping earnestly

at the same time for a speedy deliverance. When

they awoke they were not iv the same bed, and

in a room very different to those in which they

had respectively retired to rest. Quintain was the

first to spring from the bed. He had beau laboring

under fearful dreams, and now when he awoke

he felt feverish and sick, and his head ached violently,

as though he had indulged too deeply in

wine on the previous night. He gazed wildly

round, and was some time before he could collect

bis senses. It was mid-day. He could scarce

believe his eves told horn truth, yet, though he

stared and rubbed his eyes hard, he still found

himself in a small room rather meanly furnished,

and Flors sleeping on the bed which he had a moment

previously quitted. Suddenly it struck horn

that he had partaken of wine placed with the provision

on the night previously, and it had doubtless

been drugged. Flors had also partaken of it,

and while under the influence of the potion, they

had been conveyed to the place they were now in.

He roused Flors with difficulty, and found it a

task more difficult still to make horn comprehend

the change of place ; however, after a little while

'they shook off the effect of the drug, aud calmly

awaited the further pleasure of those in whose

power they still remained. The day, as the others

had done, wore away without the appearance of

aught to disturb them ; there was no lack of refreshment,

and though they were in a state of the

greatest anxiety, yet they did not discard that

which helped them to bear with better spirits this

strange immuring. It was evening when the door

suddenly opened, and Frank Merritt stood before

them in his usual attire. He smiled as he observed

they greeted horn with wondering looks.

He beckoned them to follow horn, which, after

gathering their caps and cloaks, they did with

alacrity. He led them by circuitous passages from

the building into a thick grove of trees, and after

pursuing it until he emerged into a wood he

stopped in a small glade. He turned somewhat

abruptly to Quintain, and said —

From this moment you are both free from the

power of the Fehm-gerichte in respect to the accusations

which brought you hither, and will remain

so as long as you are true to your love of

virtue and honor. Farewell I — No questions now,"

be exclaimed, as he perceived Quintain about to

speak; "take yon path," ho added, pointing to

one which formed a serpentine straggling way

through the wood, " it will lead you to the open

country. — You will see at a short distance a stone

cross — make to it ; in the valley beyond it you

will find your steeds. Near the spot is a castle

which you must avoid, or I will not answer for the

consequences of disobeying my advice. Pursue

then your journey homeward without sear of molestation

— the way will be clear, and may you,

upon your return, find your homes happier than

you left them. Farewell ! May the Great Spirit

keep you both."

He turned to depart with a wave cf the hand,

but Quiutin arrested his steps.

Can I not have one word with you ?" he said

earnestly.

Not now'' said Frank ; " 1 will meet you a

week bruce at the side of the well thou hast

adorned with thy handicraft by the tower of the

Cathedral ; thou shalt have further note of

my coming, and until then my best wishes be

with thee."

He wrung his hands warmly, and hurried away.

He was soon hidden in the thick foliage, and

Quintain, with, his elder companion, took their

way. They followed the instructions they had

received, and soon discovered the cross. In the

valley beyond fastened to a block of stone

in which a ring bad been fixed, they found

their steeds awaiting them ; they were fresh

and well groomed, and Quiutin, after assisting

Flors to mount, sprung on to the back of his

own steed, and, in a cheerful voice, cried lustily —

For Antwerp, bo !"

CHAP. XXXI.

The Count Von Haalst, when hurried from the

presence of the Assembly, was borne to a dismal

dungeon. Little time was lest horn for reflection ;

his dress was taken by force from horn, and he was

clothed in a dress of white, upon the breast of

which was emblazoned, iv bright red, a large

dagger, with the four letters, S. S. G. G. He

was thrust into a corner upon a bed of straw, and

then lest. Whatever were his feelings he still had

sufficient self-command to keep them confined to

his own breast ; he displayed none of that dismay

which might naturally have been expected to be

attendant upon his situation ; he preserved his

haughtiness, aud resisted, with what strength he

bad, the change of habiliments to which he was

subjected — though in vain. When left alone, he

for a minute, and that only, exhibited weakness ;

he buried his hands in his hair and bowed his head

to his knees, while his whole frame shook with a

tremendous convulsion ; but springing to his feet,

he threw his clenched hands in the air, and with

a wild laugh, cried —

Let them do their worst — it is but to die ; the

hour of death must come — why sear to meet it now ?

They can but kill me — it is time enough after

death to think about what must follow — then I

shall know the secret, and then let fate do what

it will, / shall no longer be a free agent."

He paced up and down his dungeon, prepared

for a visit from his fearful enemies, starting every

now and then at a fancied noise, but they came

not; aud night and darkness came on, finding

horn alone aud uninjured. a\s he strode to and

fro, it struck horn that the night air blew cold and

fresh upon horn from, the door. He paused.

Quintain MATSYS' WELL, ANTWF.Hr.

Was his hour come ? He listened with intense at i into t

tension — not a sound was to be heard. He ap swistl;

preached the door — it was open. The love of life I and tl

burst upon horn with full force — he hesitated not an . brush

instant, but quitted his dungeon. He traversed pas i again

sages intricate, with which he was unacquainted : they c

but which he managed to thread with such success j absorb

as to find himself in the open air. He fled for | esteem

ward swiftly — a wood was near, and thither he di ness c

erected his footsteps; he entered it, and cast a glance i place

behind to see if he was pursued, but no trace of to go

living being was visible, lie plunged among the I gericl

thick and mazy trees, crashing and cracking the ! quaint

branches in his path, unheeding the noise hecate. ; some

The wood was extensive — more than an hour had I perch

elapsed, and he was still wending his wav through \ Ile mt

the complicated paths. Suddenly he perceived was a

the red reflection of a fire, he slackened his pace, " F

and stole stealthily towards it. A man lay sleep home

mg by its side ; his exterior was rough and rude, "Tl

a long knife was in his belt, and a cloak was by his ' " White.

The latter he intended for a pillow, but ! "Bi

in the movements of sleep had suffered his head Haalst

to roll off. The Count cautiously knelt over horn, I need c

and first drew his knife from his belt, and having | "I

obtained it without disturbing horn seized the I not to

cloak, and a slouched hat which lay near, and hurt N

red away. As soon as he was buried in a mass of leave 1

underwood, he donned tho cloak and hat, and purse <

pursued his way again. Once more he emerged gently,

into the open country, and with untiring feet

swiftly advanced until the dawns day approached,

and then, taking advantage of a small path of

brushwood, he entered and lay down in it till night

again came on. The cravings of hunger, though

they oppressed horn, stil were unheeded in the all

absorbing idea of escape. Fortunately, as he

esteemed it, there was no moon, and when darkness

once more reigned over the earth he lest his

place of concealment and pushed forward, hoping

to get yet beyond the jurisdiction of the Fehm-

gerichte, with whose limits he was well acquainted.

When he had pursued his way for

some distance a hilly road on the descent, he

perceived a roan approaching slowly on horseback.

He made towards horn, and a glance told horn he

was a peasant. He accosted him.

Friend," he exclaimed, " thought returning

homeward, and probably haven't far to journey?"

'Thou hast guessed rightly," replied the man.

Why dost thou suppose this ?"

Because I wish it to lie so," returned Von

Haalst. " Wilt thou part with thy steed — 1 have

need of horn and will poy thee handsomely."

I have had horn since he was a colt — 1 care

not to part with horn," replied the man.

Nay, an' thou dost not wish to sell horn I will

leave horn at any place thou shalt name, and a

purse of gold for his use," said Von Haalst ure

had horn since he was a colt, and never

ill-used horn," returned the man. " lie is tired of

his journey to-day — I'll not lend him. Goodnight,

friend."

Wc must not part so," exclaimed Von Haalst,

fiercely ; "an" thou wilt not take mine offer thou

[shalt yield horn without terms. Dismount, or I

bury my dagger in thy body, knave." He unsheathed

it as ho spoke.

Thought a forest hound ; a marauder, then,"

cried the man, and instantly discharged a pistol

at the Count ; the bullet missed horn, and with a

tremendous oath he sprung upon the peasant,

dragged horn by one effort from his horse, and

plunged the knife several times in his body. Tho

man shrieked, then crave one horrid groan, and

laid at the feet of Von Haal.it a corse. He regarded

it for a moment, and then muttered, scornfully—



Fool, to sell thy life for a steed !"

He laid his hand upon the horse's neck and

prepared to mount, but crc foot was placed in stirrup,

he felt himself hurled to the ground with tremendous

violence, his sight was obscured by a

black cloth being flung over his head, and he felt

himself borne swiftly away before he had time to

make the smallest resistance. He quickly guessed

into whose hands he had fallen, aud all hope of

escape was over.

I have failed," he muttered, " but everlasting

perdition seize and wither me, bone and marrow,

if they draw from me one sign of fear or agony."

It was long crc the journey ceased ; the sharp

throbs of hunger still raged with fiery claws iv his

breast, and a devouring thirst began to seize upon

horn, but he muttered no complaint. Once more

he found himself a tenant of the dungeon he

hail quilted, and there he was lest in intense darkness

; he uttered no sound, but seated himself sullenly

in one corner of the dungeon, and, chained

by the waist, he prepared for the moment which

was to be his last — not in the manner which religion

counselled, but to meet it, horrible as it

might be, without quailing. When morning came

a thrill of horror ran through horn on perceiving

the dead body of the man he had murdered within

a few feet of horn ; it had been his companion the

whole of the night, and he had been all unconscious

of it. In the first moment of discovery he

could almost have shrieked with fright but again he

struggled to keep up his haughty spirit. He

turned his eyes away, but ever and anon tlmy

would turn to the ghastly face of the dead man,

who was so placed that his fact! was turned to the

spot where Von Haalst was chained. The eyes

were open, and the horrible glassy death-stare

was in them, tho glazed appearance rendering

them still more hideous. It was a fearful sight,

and would keep in his eyes, and, when he closed

them, in his brain. And hunger gnawed and

gnawed at his very heart strings — he would have

given blood for water, his parched mouth and

burning throat driving horn almost to a state

of frenzy. Several times he essayed to reach the

dead body to turn it over, that its dreadful aspect

might not blast his sight, and turn his blood to

ice, but his chain would not allow horn to reach

it, and he was compelled to turn away with sickening

despair, to hope for speedy annihilation.

And the dreary night came on, and from some

hidden spot, whose source he could not discover,

a faint stream of light came, which fell on the deadman's

face, making it more ghastly and horrible

than ever ; and he grew faint with hunger and

thirst, and wondered why they did not slay him.

Before the morning came he felt his brain wander,

but he fell asleep, and when he awoke it was approaching

night. The body was gone, but in its

place were two fehmenules, in their fearful

dresses ; each bore a long dagger. He sprung

to his feet ; the chain was removed from his

waist, and he dashed at one of the mysterious beings

to wrest the dagger from horn, but starvation rendered

horn weak and feeble. lie tottered, reeled

and staggered like a drunken man. The two

fehmenules seized horn, each by a wrist, and forced

horn to the earth ; both raised their daggers together

and at the same instant they were both

buried in the wretched man's breast. He uttered

no cry, but the blow was not mortal — the frame

was too exhausted by want of food to require much

to destroy it, yet did life after these desperate

wounds cling to its shattered shell with singular

tenacity. The fermented bore the body away

from the cell and carried it into th wood near the

spot, and there, fastening a rope round his neck,

they raised horn to tho branch of a tree, and he

swung about in the night wind, dead — a fearful

evidence of the punishment awarded by the

1 holy Tribunal for crimes so great as those he had

been guilty of. The dagger — the emblem of the

ministers of justice — was stuck in the tree, and

no hands removed the body, which was lest there

swinging until the rope bearing it rotted, and the

beasts of prey left only the bones to tell the fate

of Count Von Haalst.

Not, less fearful was the termination of the

Count Iceberg's career. He, like Von Haalst,

had been cast in a dungeon, and habited in the

dress of doom, he, too, in the still hour of night had

discovered the door of his dungeon open, but was

long crc he could make upliis mid take advantage

of it; bulatlength be wound himself up to a pitch of

desperation, dashed through the open door, and

fled he knew not nor cared whither so that be escaped

the doom prepared for him. Upon horn

came the same hope that he might be able to

elude the ministers of the Fehm-gerichle, and

find his way and a safe home in other lands. His

progress, however, was unlike that of Von Haalst

he went slowly and cautiously, frequently hiding

breathlessly as he fancied he heard a footstep

following horn, and then again advancing slowly

and circumspectly. He succeeded in finding, towards

the close of the following day, a wretched

hut, and obtaining from it food and drink during

its owner's absence. He wandered on when be

had satisfied his appetite the whole night, and hid

himself during the following day in the ruins of a

castle ; at night again he crept forth, and looking

eagerly for those paths which were likely to

be unfrequented, followed them, although he knew

not whither they led. He was unable to form

any correct idea of the locality he was in — it was

wild, cheerless, and uninhabited, thickly wooded

where there was any approach to level" ground,

and hilly and barren where solace was scanty.

Nor cot nor castle did he meet with iv his dreary

wandering— no human being gladdened his eyes

who could grant horn relief, or of whom he could

demand it. Once he came suddenly upon a band

of predatory ruffians regaling, who had as much

cause to scar the Holy Tribunal as himself. At

first they pounced upon horn as a prize, but when

they discovered his dress, bearing the fearful symbol

of his doom, they drove horn from them with

blows and reviling. They knew tho agents of

the Fehm-gerichte, were not far distant, anil they

had too much to scar for themselves, to

desire his companionship. In vain he appealed to

their sympathy, mercy, or charity — they thrust

horn forward denying horn even a scrap from the

j plentiful meal spread before them, threatening to

I take his life if he remained one moment. 'Thus

I compelled, he proceeded on, filled with agony and

j wretchedness, and looked anxiously for the dawn

j to show horn where he might find a few berries to

j stop the cravings of his appetite ; when it came

he looked eagerly in every direction, but it was

j not the season of the year for horn to discover

I what he sought. Half famished, he crammed a

j few green leaves into his mouth, and even while

i devouring them his eyes suddenly lighted on two

shipped who stood in the midst of some thick

brushwood near horn, partly concealed by the

| spreading foliage. He started back with a wild

cry and took to flight, not seeing, knowing, or

i caring, whither he fled, so that he could leave his

terrible pursuers behind him. There was a thick

while mist enveloping the land — a morning mist

which was thicker in the open country then it had

been in the woods, aud of this he took advantage

by taking, at the top of his speed, a different

direction to the one he had first started in. He

ran wildly on over hill and dale until exhausted,

lie entered a field of long, high,

rank grass ; there he threw himself down,

and gave himself up to despair. He wept

bitter sealing tears. Remorse with its sharp

fangs tormented horn ; he groaned with agony

as he wished he had pursued the same course

of honor as his brother. Such wishes, earnest as

they were, were now unavailing, and he bowed his

head to the earth with almost paralyzing anguish.

More than an hour passed away and his pursuers

had not appeared, nor did the sound of their footsteps

or voice strike upon his ear. As he became

gradually conscious of this, a small ray of hope

penetrated his soul ; new thoughts arose within

his mind — he began to think that in the mist they

had failed to track horn, and if he waited in his

present lair until nightfall he hoped to get free,

and, by another course of life, to regain the position

he had lost. As this somewhat comforting

thought passed through his brain, he heard approaching

footsteps ; his heart beat violently — almost

to suffocation. Were they those of his pursuers

? He laid himself flat on the ground, and

held his breath. They came nearer and nearer,

and as, in an agony of terror, he was about to

leap from the ground and fly, the voice of a girl,

singing a light joyous song, burst upon his ear.

'The tone was full of musical sweetness, and sung

with light-heartiness. He raised his head cautiously.

The mist had cleared off, the sun shone

brightly, birds were singing on every bough — everything

around seemed the emblem of gladness

save himself; he alone was the speck on the sunny

surface — the blot in the brightness. He saw tho

maiden approaching ; she was about sixteen, full

of glee and devoid of care, as her light springing

step showed. What would he at that moment have

given fora heart as innocent and a foot as light as

hers. When she arrived close to horn, he raised

himself up aud stood in her path. The girl, with

a shriek of fright, dropped a small basket she was

carrying, and, falling on her knees, mattered her

prayers as fast as tongue could utter them. She

shut her eyes, and from the sudden paleness of

her features, appeared ready to swoon. He observed

her terror with anxiety, and gave an uneasy

glance round horn lo see whether the dreadful

ministers of vengeance were near, but he could

perceive no trace of there ; and endeavoring to

render his voice — made rude and harsh by ranch

excitement — as tender to her ear as possible, he

aid —

Be not alarmed, pretty maiden, I am no spirit

but mortal. lam old, and worn down with care

and anguish — look up — be not afraid, I will not

hurt you 1 swear by the God above us."

Are you not the dreadful " Number Nip ?" she

exclaimed in a trembling voice, and still keeping

her eyes closed with fear.

I tell you I am no spirit, but a miserable

wretch, pursued by a dreadful fate, and exhausted

by hunger and fatigue," he ejaculated in an urgent

tone.

The girl gradually opened her eyes, and be

covering, as well as he could, the horrible symbol

of the Fehm-gerichte, emblazoned on his breast,

with his hands, prepared to meet her gaze ; which,

as he expected, was averted as soon as it was

turned upon him. He endeavored, both by word

and gesture, to conquer her scar, aud so far succeeded,

as to induce her to enquire why he stayed

her progress. He replied, by imploring her lo

lead horn where he could obtain food and safe

shelter from the pursuit of relentless foes, who

nought bis life, and would not be satisfied with

aught else. The girl seemed struck by his urgent

wooer, his abject tone, and wretched appearance.

1 have food in roy basket, which you can have,"

she replied ; " but my family are poor, our dwelling

humble, and not strong. If your foes are

powerful, it would afford you no protection from

them ; besides, if it would, it is my father whom

you must ask for the shelter of his roof; and he

is far away, aud will not be back for some days.

Vou had better proceed farther — take this food in

welcome ; and I doubt not, in some other spot,

you will meet with the safety it is not in our power

here to grant you."

Idenberg took the proffered basket ; it contained

both food and wme — an ample supply for

horn, until fortune scut horn to some other spot.

He tendered bis thanks to the girl, which, with

diffidence, she accepted ; and taking the opportunity

of his commencing greedily to devour the

contents of the basket, she bade horn farewell, and

hurried away, displaying, by the quickness of her

step, that she was but too glad to rid herself of

her mysterious, and by no means agreeable, companion.

She was soon lost to sight ; and Iceberg,

with the suspicion natural to his situation,

shifted his quarters, scaring that she would return

with some one who would drive horn once again

within the ken of the shipped, whom he fancied

he had successfully hitherto eluded. .\s night

drew on, he perceived, from his hiding-place, huge

masses of clouds driving up across the sky. The

sun set iv fiery clouds, and gusts of wind, sharp

and moaning, swept past horn fitfully. He cast

his eye anxiously upwards, and saw there but 100

certain tokens of a coming storm. He perceived

that it would be a severe one, and he resolved to

try and find some shelter from its violence. Big

drops of rain began to descend — the wind increased,

and the sky grew darker and darker. No

other sounds met his ear than those of the elements,

and he prepared to leave his place of concealment.

He uprose and gazed slowly around

him. He saw nought of his pursuers until his

eyes fell upon the deep shadow of a small cluster

of trees near. At first he failed to penetrate its

gloom ; but when a persevering scrutiny enabled

horn to do so, his heart grew seek — his hair lifted

slowly up — his blood crept aud crawled, freezing

through his veins — big drops of perspiration burst

forth, and stood iv large globes upon his clammy

sorehead — his mouth became parched — his tongue

clave to the roof of his mouth — his eyes appeared

starting out of their sockets — and a dreadful

groan, as though it would shatter his frame, burst

from him. There, in that shadow, calmly awaiting

his movements, stood the fearful beings he so

fondly hoped he had escaped from. Motionless

they stood ; but their bright eyes, glittering like

stars in the darkness, were bent upon him. Clasping

his hands together iv frantic despair, then tossing

them wildly in the air, he uttered a loud piercing

cry of horror, and dashed forward with the

fearful impetuosity of a spirit pursued by demons.

He could scarce see whither he flew. A mountain

mist obscured the scenery, which the natural

absence flight in the decline of day, aided by the

thick ponderous clouds, sailing quickly across the

sky, rendered scarcely perceptible, and this darkness,

which he might have almost deemed an advantage,

proved the reverse ; for the way was

rugged and hilly. His fast-failing breath and frequent

falls told horn this ; and ever and anon, ashe

turned his white and ghastly face over his

shoulder, ho could perceive, in misty obscurity,

the dim outline of his horrible pursuers, who, like

a brace of phantoms, hovered on his footsteps, and

preserved an equal nearness, whatever the speed

his mad agony and scar impelled. Still he ran

on — still he looked back, and ever were they

there following. He shrieked with horror — he

screamed for mercy — he called upon heaven with

convulsive energy; but they were still there,

moving as he moved. The shadow he cast was

not truer than they to his steps. What availed

horn his penitence, his remorse, his bitter, bitter

prayers ? It was too late — there was no hope

for him — he felt it ; it was stamped upon his

brain, as though it had been struck with a die of

liquid fire. Despair was on his heart, and eat into

the very marrow of his bones. llc grew frenzied ;

a string of imprecations accompanied his prayers ;

he prayed, implored, and threatened by turns. He

l>n lie mad ; be knew not what words left his

lips, and during this lime he slackened not his

Speed ; but as he uttered his agonized cries, turned

his ashy face towards his pursuers — they were

nearer to horn, aud they drew nearer still. He

had turned die brow of the hill, and was now on

the descent — it was steep, and assisted his speed.

He urged forward his almost exhausted limbs — he

swept rapidly on, yet seemed it that a leaden

weight was attached to each of his sect, to keep

them to the earth. Nearer they come, he could

hear their voices, their pursuing footsteps. Suddenly

there was a tremendous flash of lightning,

then a stunning report, like the explosion of a million

cannon. Fie turned his eyes wildly on his

pursuers, while that vivid flash rendered everything

for miles as visible as in daylight, and viewed

them, with extended arms, advancing with the

speed of the wind. He uttered a fresh cry, and

the next instant found himself falling down a

dreadful depth — down, down, down he went ; it

seemed to horn, while consciousness lasted, hundreds

of sect; then there was a tremendous plunge

iv black aud troubled waters ; it was followed by

a silence, even in the elements, for a moment ;

then a white face and a white hand appeared

struggling iv the waters. A second flash of lightning

plainly shewed them a fearful brink. A

death shriek rose in the air, above the roar of the

crashing thunder, like the wild scream of a huge

bird of prey ; then, again all was still, save the

howling of the wind, as, in whistling blasts, it swept

angrily along the face of the earth and the waters.

The two chopped paused on the brink of the

precipice, and looked coldly and calmly on the

ghastly face as the waters closed over it ; and one

said, iv a hollow tone —

The vengeance of the holy Fehm-gerichte

never slumbers; its award is as certain as the

death wc must all suffer. The penalty inflicted

upon the Count Idenberg has been paid on earth :

he is in the hands of the Great Spirit. May God

have mercy on the sinner."

His companion made a brief response, and then

the first speaker exclaimed, as he drew a dagger

from his belt —

As a true and faithful servant of the Holy

Fehm-gerwhte, I declare to all members of its

sacred Tribunal within hearing, to the winds, to

the sky, the earth, and the waters, that I have

done my duty in compassing the death of the sinful

noble doomed to perish by my hand, and in

token bury this dagger in the waters which are his

grave, and in the name of the Fclnn-fterichte, I

command them if they yield up his body they

yield also the dagger, that, those who gaze may J

know he who perished died a fearful death in

atonement for his manifold crimes."

lie flung the dagger as he spoke into the waters,

he heard it plunge in them, and then, making a

sign to his companion, glided swiftly away.

CHAP. XXXII.

Francis Floris was skilful in oilier things besides

painting ; he had great fertility of invention,

in scheming, and plotting. In Italy he had had

occasion to practise it, and the result shewed he

had no reason to contemn bis ability on that score.

The continued absence of Michael Flors and

Quintain Matsys enabled horn to lay a thousand

plans for the furtherance of his hopes and wishes;

like a skilful player at chess, he did not design a

movement but he went through every position it

might assure until he attained its ultimate result.

Those doubtful of success were at once rejected,

and others conceived ; every point was examined

and questioned before it was admitted to take part

in the general scheme, and when he had perfected

his plan he went through it, piece by piece, until

he had so indelibly fixed it upon his memory as lo

do away with the chance of detection or betrayal

by a thoughtless remark or casual slip of the

tongue, and during this time he applied himself

assiduously to a picture he had designed, and was

painting expressly to gain the heart of Flors, and

his assent to his marriage with his daughter ; but

though he worked late and early, he never suffered

an opportunity of meeting Agnes or Vanderneer

to pass without taking advantage of it. To the

former he was distant, but very respectful ; he

scarcely suffered his eyes to stray towards her,

but wore an air of deep melancholy, taking the

utmost care that his apparent dejectedness did not

appear studied. It was only in evening walks

that he met her, accompanied by Blanche and

Casper Hauser. They rarely spoke, — the very

constrained air of Agnes forbade it. He was too

politic to force his conversation that the distance

between them might be increased, and when he

did speak, it was upon subjects so foreign to that

on which they had before discoursed, that Agnes

could not help giving bun cecil for a delicacy be

did not really possess. When he crossed Vanderneer,

he preserved that air of frankness which,

in the first instance, he had worn, aud with horn

carefully avoided the subject they had conferred

upon ; once or twice he alluded to it, but only by

hinting (hat it was not perhaps right to judge of

a man's actions or motions until something of a

%

long acquaintance enabled his questioner to forma

just estimate of his character. It was a sort of

tacit acknowledgment to Vanderneer, that he hud

been hasty in judging Quintain : that was the best

and most effectual way to unlock his heart, but it

was not perfectly successful ; for the wound was

not healed, and while the scar remained it was no

easy task to banish it from the memory. Still he

did away with much of the unfriendly feeling, aud

that was something. There was also au event

happened at this lime which he determined to lake

every advantage of, aud turn it lo his purposes

with such cunning and skill as to make it answer

all the expectations which he had formed of it.

He was returning late one evening from a tavern,

which he had visited with a new found friend

whom he left there, when bis attention was directed

by a loud exclamation, and the clashing of

swords; he ran to the spot, and sawayouth attacked

by three fellows. The youth supported himself

bravely, but the odds were all too unequal, aud

as Francis Floris wanted neither swordniauship or

courage, he joined the minority, the more especially

as he perceived horn to be the same youth he

had seen addressing Adeline Vanderneer so earnestly

when he was quitting her father's house.

He shouted the name of his patron sant, and laid

about horn with right good will. Aid, and such

aid, was unlooked for — the assailants fled, nut

Francis Floris was left, alone with the youth, who

was somewhat out of breath with his exertions.

When he recovered a little he held out his hand

to Francis Floris, and said frankly —

Now, by my father's right hand I I thank

thee, Sir Stranger, for thy gallant aid in a moment

of such need ; it was brave, aud shews you

to be a true mau ; for what claim have I, a

stranger, upon thy sword, save that 1 was iv peril

against unfair odds ? I thank you from my soul,

and when you need the service of a man who feels

he owes possibly his life to thee, call upon me,

aud despair blight my best hopes if Paul Bernstein

do not to the full repay thy call."

It is not worth a thought," sail Francis, carelessly

wiping tho stain of his adversary's blood

from his sword ;" may 1 crave to know what

brought the weapons of yon three knaves upon

thee ?"

"In truth, 'twas but little," returned Paul. I

know the rascals, and spoiled them from tricking

a honest merchant with some unsound horses.

They promised to repay my kindness at the time I

exposed them, aud, but for thee, they would have

performed it."

Let me advise thee to use sonic caution,"

observed Francis in reply. " Such knaves seldom

forget an injury of the nature you inflicted upon

them ; they will not rest content at being once

soiled, but will have at thee again when they have

the chance."

Aye I but they will not easily obtain the

chance," returned Paul ;" crc tomorrow night

they will all atone for their knavish tricks iv the

gaol."

That is enough ; the way is clear I believe

now ; I will therefore bid you farewell, for the

hour is late," exclaimed Francis, who had, during

this colloquy walked some distance with Paul.

1 am at home," replied Paul, pointing to a

large house, at the door of which they had arrived;"

this is my dwelling, and if you will now

accompany mo in aud taste u stoup of choice Rhenish,

or will give me a friendly call, as soon as

thy convenience will permit thee, I will give thee

such a welcome as in my estimation thou dost deserve."



You think too much of a trifle," responded

Francis, smiling. " I will however call, crc long,

upon you ; and when thou dost hear the name of

Francis Floris announced, thou wilt know who is

waiting to see thee."

Francis Floris — Francis Floris. I have heard

that name before," observed Paul ;" but where —

no matter, friend Francis, come when you will

you will find me but too glad to receive and give

thee welcome."

Both repeated their farewells, and each took

their respective way.

Francis Floris," muttered Paul, thoughtfully

; " where have I heard that name ? — I have

heard it lam sure — it is very familiar — no matter,

he has done me service, and it shall go hard

but I amply repay him."

Fortune favors me," muttered Francis, ashe

drew his cloak closer round horn, and increased

his pace homeward. " This is a tool I can work

bravely with. Let me consider — this Paul Bernstein,

unless 1 make an egregious blunder, loves

Adeline Vanderneer, and she turns not too deaf

an ear to his affection. Agnes loves Quintain

Matsys — blisters on his name, and he doubtless

affects great love for her. Now the worthy parents

of these fair dames have widely different

objects in view to that conceived by the parties

iv questioned so have 1, and it now remains lobe

proved whether I and Flors, at least, play the

winning garnet, or not — I think wc shall— l think

wc shall — I would wager my worldly wealth, aye,

my life, wc shall."

Comforting himself with this sanguine anticipation

he sought his home, and retired to restless

sore at heart ; for that he believed himself

nearer still lo the attainment of his cherished project.

The following morning he was stirring with

the sun, and at his painting ; he exerted upon it all

his skill, but whether it was that other thoughts

crowded upon horn, than those necessary to make

the painting all excelling, or whether, as it frequently

occurs, the very effort to make it surpass

all his other productions had some mysterious influence

upon his usual skill, aud kept it strongly

iv the shade, it is difficult to state ; but true it

was, after he had been sonic hours painting, he

awoke suddenly to the conviction that he had not

obtained the effect he desired ; and to produce it,

labored and labored until all the brilliancy of

touch, all the vigorous drawing, and the clear harmonious

coloring, were fast disappearing. The

longer he continued the more this became evident,

until he threw down his pencil and palette

in despair, and quitted his painting room to try

whether, .aster a walk and change of scene, he

might not be enabled to return to it fresh, and get

back all he had hitherto lost. As he sauntered

carelessly through the streets, his thoughts reverting

to the scheme he laid with such care, and

which now he had become acquainted with Paul

Breitstein would need some alterations and modifications,

he came to the resolve of making the

most of the time which the absence of Flors and

his rival allowed him. He determined if possible

to cement the friendship newly formed with Paul,

lead horn to suppose he was assisting horn in

gaining the hand of Adeline, and for such service

induce horn to join horn in overthrowing Quintain's

dearest prospects. It was not his intention to

suffer, if he could prevent it, a wedding to actually

take place between the burgomaster's daughter

and his new friend, for that would mar the point

in his plot of keeping Vanderneer in the belief

Quintain had gained his daughter's love, aud was

wooing at the same time Agnes. He knew he

should have a difficult garnet to play, but once

wedded to the painter's daughter, then he would

further the marriage of Paul and Adeline all in

his power, in order to prevent Quintain obtaining

a wise so wealthy endowed, as there was no doubt

the burgomaster's daughter would be. His design

was carefully and elaborately sketched, but he had

now to make it a painting ; his materials were

prepared — everything was ready towards its favorable

accomplishment, but it sometimes happens

that the painting falls infinitely short of the

sketch. Wc shall see.

He had not forgotten the locality where stood

the residence of Paul Breitstein, and on reaching

it, found its occupier deeply engaged in business ;

he, however, transferred its continuance to other

hands, and, grasping the palm of Francis with

considerable warmth, he ushered horn into his .

Wine and refreshments were instantly

produced, and, both by word and manner,

Paul shewed he had not paid a mere compliment

to Francis in inviting horn to see him. Francis,

AGNESiFLORS KEEPINGi'HEn ASSIGNATION WITH Quintain MATSYS.



whose knowledge of men's characters was of no

mean extent, quickly discovered the open, ingenious

nature he had to deal with, and knew he

should have more difficulty to accomplish his object

then had Paul been of a crafty and designing

spirit like himself; he did not, however, hesitate

in the course he purposed in pursuing, but assuming

the open, hearty, frank manner which so rapidly

obtains the good will of chance or constant

companions, he soon found a way to the warm

heart of Paul. A thousand merry and friendly

things were said on both sides, a promise of future

friendship passed from each to the other, and nothing

could exceed the good fellowship which

sprung up and reigned over them a3 they demolished

glass after glass of wine which Francis, who

was a connoisseur, declared to be perfect of its

kind.

Your name is not only familiar to me," said

Paul, after a toast to the long continuance of their

friendship, " but your face is also, and yet I cannot

remember where I have seen or heard either."

Francis smiled a peculiarly sarcastic, meaning

smile, which the other, however, did not heed or

observe.

I think I can set thy wonder and conjecture

at rest," he exclaimed ; " I too, have seen you before,

and I will tell you where. — Firstly, with respect

to my name, be it known I am cousin of

Michael Flors the painter, and you have heard

my name probably from some friend or member

of his family. I saw you once on quitting the

house of the burgomaster Vanderneer ; you were,

if I mistake not, engaged in earnest conversation

with his fair daughter — "

I remember — I remember," exclaimed Paul,

an extraordinary change passing over his features,

and accompanying his words by moving back his

chair. Francis gazed fixedly at horn, and read in

his varying countenance that he had not heard

anything which could render a friendship with

horn peculiarly gratifying or desirable, and a conviction

forcing itself upon horn that he had gone

rather too far in his warm protestations of eternal

esteem and friendship.

"My communication does not seem to fill you with

pleasure," said Francis, resolved|to come to the point

at once and ascertain what Paul had heard to his

disparagement, that he might do away with its influence

if possible. '• May I ask why you appear

to be disturbed by the recollection of meeting me,

or hearing my name ?"

Do I — am I — that is — you mistake, I am not

disturbed," stammered Paul with considerable embarrassment.



Indeed I do not," said Francis with an affectation

of manly candor ; " your manner is such as

to make me certain you have heard something to

my discredit — it is but fair and honorable that you

should acquaint me with what you have heard,

that I may disprove it. I flatter myself," he

added, in a proud and haughty tone, " that the

soul of Francis Floris was never spotted by a deed

of dishonor, and justice demands that I should

learn what base aspersions have been levelled at

my character, and who are the assessors. I value

your good opinion, and it is hard that I should

forfeit it because a few base calumniators — "

Hold," cried Paul, rising and interrupting

horn, and speaking with some warmth," those from

whom I have heard thy name have no taint of

baseness in their character, and that I will maintain

with my good right arm against all the world.

What has been said has been uttered from honest

conviction, and I tell you candidly, that, at present,

my belief does not turn counter to it."

** This point must be settled crc wc proceed a

step further, either to speak or drink as friends,"

exclaimed Francis, also gaining his feet, with an

air of dignity. " I demand to know what you

have heard of me, tainting my name and honor."

Your demand would have no weight with

me," returned Paul, with equal dignity, " did I

not feel that, having advanced thus far, I am

bound in honor to proceed. You shall judge

from my frankness whether I hesitate to avow

ray own impression, or conceal what I have heard."

Francis bowed, and said —

I can trust in your honor."

Well," exclaimed Paul, bluntly, " you called

to my memory my encountering you in the house

of my good friend Vanderneer, Now, Sir Francis

Floris, that maiden whom I was addressing I

wear in my heart of hearts. I have loved her

from my boyhood, and would not suffer the breeze

to visit her fair face too roughly had I the power

to prevent it ; and yet I saw thy eyes light upoii

her not as became a true man, but as one with

villanous thoughts — "

You wrong me, I swear you wrong me,"

cried Francis Floris ; •' the beauty of the maiden

would draw admiring eyes upon her from a colder

soul than mine, but that I had a thought dishonorable

towards her 1 indignantly deny ; and did the

maiden think so, though I vow myself innocent of

the charge, I would pray her pardon in any humble

terra she might dictate — but such apology

should be made to her alone, to no man would I

sue for pardon for a deed of which I knew myself

to be guiltless. Look you, young sir, I have

lived longer than you, and know the feeling which

has misled you ; the gaze of admiration from any

eyes but his own are always criminal in the estimation

of a lover, and on such ground, still affirming,

by my soul ! you have done me wrong, I forgive

the unjust and and unkind imputation you

have cast upon my honor."

Paul was bewildered. There was such an air

of sincerity in the manner of Francis, thai, all

honor and honesty himself, and unconscious of

the real signs of the contrary in others, he could

not but believe him. Ile said, instantly —

"I am sorry to have doubted you ; but your

earnest denial of what I fancied to have been the

case, has convinced me of my mistake. But that

is not all ; the heaviest charge is to come. .adeline

Vanderneer tells me that you are a persecutor

of your cousin-german Agnes Flors, and Wanderer

acquaints me that you are an unjust asperse

of the character of Quintain Matsys, whom 1 

be as honorable and as brave a youth as any-dwelling

in Antwerp."

Be seated," said Francis, whose brows knitted

at this second communication bul gradually resumed

their natural outline, while he essayed to

appear calm and cool. Paul complied with his

ivipiest, and took his chair again. Francis followed

his example, and thus continued — " You shall

judge," he said, " how far I deserve what has

been said of mc. lam a stranger in Antwerp,

without friend or relative save Michael Flors,

who, as you have heard, is my cousin. Upon my

arrival I naturally sought horn, aud received from

horn a kind and friendly welcome — from his

daughter, one cold and freezing, though wc had

never met before, and she scarce ever knew my

name. Her strange reserve was too obvious and

too studied not to be the result of some peculiar

cause which, though hidden from me, was in

some way connected with mc. It was but natural

that I should endeavor to sift it thoroughly,

and judge my feelings when I discovered, through

a chain of circumstances to which it is now needless

to allude, that my fair cousin had been beguiled

of her affection by one Quintain Matsys, a

blacksmith — "

'• Beguiled," echoed Paul, with an incredulous

smile.

Aye, even so," returned Francis ; '• but your

patience, I prithee, and when I have finished thou

shalt judge if 1 have overstepped my duty. I have

ascertained that, by dint of incessant, but secret

mark you that — assiduity, ho succeeded in inducing

my cousin to believe that he sulscred the

extremes of misery and despair for the want of

her love. She is naturally kind and gentle and

it seems yielding, though, by the mass ! I have

little cause to say so ; she was moved by some

trifling acts of service which fortune, aud some

trickery, enabled horn to perform, and has, if not

actually confessed it, given horn but small reason

to doubt that his affected love is reciprocal,"

But why should you doubt his love " exclaimed

Paul earnestly. He could not see other

than Quintain's loving successfully — Agues Flors

was the best match in the world for horn, as it

would remove the only and most formidable rival

he had, for no decided answer could he obtain

from Adeline on Quintain's account, though it

seemed almost certain she loved her early playmate

I'anl better than all the world beside.

I doubt his love as I doubt his honor, for the

best reason," returned Francis — " because I can

prove that, while he addressed Agnes Flors in

terms of warm attachment, be was professing the

'most violent passion for Adeline Vanderneer."

•' How know you this ?" cried Paul, with sudden

agitation.

You will pardon me if I confine to mv own

breast the keeping of the means by which I became

acquainted with these matters," returned

Francis ; " let it suffice, that I can vouch for the

accuracy of them."

j

Did you find, also, that Adeline returned disaffection

as Agnes Flors has done ?" asked Paul,

with parched lips and a throbbing heart.

•' If she has not yielded her heart to horn the

fault lies not with the endeavor he has made to

obtain it," replied Francis, with a sarcastic, smile ;

he has won over her father to his cause, and she,

I understand, possesses so much daughterly love

and veneration, that her father's wish is her law.

Unless I throw horn, which I will do or fall myself,

he will succeed with one — perhaps, both."

"Both! — what mean you?" enquired Paul,

unable to conceal the agitation which was pervading

every nerve.

Why this," cried Francis, with startling loudness,

and the utmost bitterness; "he doubtless

has a passion for Agnes, and a love for Adeline's

dowry — everyone knows Michael Flors will wed

his daughter to none but a painter like himself —

now, should a blacksmith presume to her hand ?

No ! Be will destroy the virtue of one, and wed

the other."

Not if I have the power of crossing horn in

his foul intent, I swear by the Holy Mother !"

exclaimed Paul, springing to bis feet.

Nor will I stand tamely by and permit horn

to succeed," responded Francis, with an appearance

of enthusiasm; "you shall see that upon his

return, I will at once proceed to such measures as

will expose his plans, defeat his objects, and 

those who. have most trusted horn that, though

fair ami honorable in appearance, he is in truth a

villain."

And yet," observed Paul, with a perplexed

air, as though a sudden remembrance forced itself

upon horn, " I know those who have known horn

long, and when did one in my hearing speak one

word despairingly of horn ? Never. Surely if

he be a villain, some trace of it would have been

discovered ore now."

It answered his purpose to behave fairly and

honorably to those upon whom he had no design,

and yet whose good word would prove of service

to horn when he needed it," urged Francis ; "he

has only shewn his consummate skill and artfulness

on that point."

Still Adeline has always spoken of horn in

terms of eulogy ; his generosity and his honor

have been a frequent theme, aud truly all I have

ever seen of horn compels me to coincide with

her," returned Paul.

Women ever love those who minister lo their

pride and vanity," exclaimed Francis, with much

bitterness ; « the greatest libertine has owed his

success with the fair sex as much to a character

tor which he should be abhorred by them as to

personal appearance ; nay, more— a woman who

perceives herself courted by a man who is known

to have had the love of an hundred weak-minded

fools of the softer sex, feels her vanity gratified,

inasmuch as she fondly imagines there must be

some peculiar charm iv her which attracts horn

who can have, almost at a nod, the love of so many.

She knows the previous villany of his conduct, but

she heeds it not ; she thinks only of her triumph

over her rivals, aud the impossibility of one who

vows so much and swears so strongly behaving

falsely aud cruelly to her, until she awakes from

her enchanting dream by finding herself cast aside

for another fool equally weak, and has the consolation

of bearing herself spoken of as I speak now,

and treated as her folly deserves. Even Adeline

Vanderneer, or Agnes Flors— l makcuodistinction

finding this fellow courting them both, and

themselves caring for no one else, instead of both

discarding horn, which would only be their duty to

themselves, they would, and— you will see— will,

both try their best which shall have the triumph

over the other — "

"Of Agnes Flors I know little," said Paul,

gravely ; "of Adeline much. I have known and

loved her from childhood, and I know her incapable

of what you surmise ; aud this also I know,

and should wish to be known— that he, iv my

presence or out of it, should his speech come to

my ears, must think twice crc he litters one word,

either plainly, or by hint or insinuation, against

Adeline Vanderneer. 1 wear a sword which I

know how to use, either to punish her defamer or

defend myself against insult."

Understand me," said Francis, perceiving

what a mine he was treading upon, " that I speak

no more of Adeline Vanderneer or my cousin than

I do of any other woman. I know the sex — much

experience have I bad with them, and well do I

know their failings. I speak generally."

I care not for any other of the sex," said

Paul ; I think and care only of Adeline. However,

the matter will soon be settled — Quintain

Matsys and Michael Flors will shortly return to

Antwerp, and then I will make horn declare himself.

If I find you have spoken the truth, he

shall answer to me for it with his life ; if you

have done horn wrong, I shall look to you for

redress."

And you shall have it," returned Frauds,

but you must not be too precipitate. Trust rae,

there is no dishonor in acting with prudence and

discretion. I believe this blacksmith to have laid

his plans so well, that were wc to charge horn

too abruptly he would find means of escaping the

letter of the accusation. No, let us so bring it

home to horn that there will be no possibility of

escape or evasion, and then crush him. Leave

the management of this matter to me — act to horn

when you meet horn as you have hitherto done, I

will tell you when to turn upon horn, like a tiger,

and fix your talons in his breast."

I like not the manner of proceeding any more

than I like the simile," said Paul, " 1 could not,

by my soul ! hold out the hand of friendship to

one I in my heart suspected to be a villain."

"It must be done," urged Francis, " unpleasant

as the last may be, for the sake of all you hold

dear — for the sake of winning her upon whom

your heart is placed ; consider the prize, aud then

think whether a little policy, not unworthy in itself,

is improper to be employed. Nay, you shall

not give me your answer now — I will see you

again, when you have had more time to think the

matter over. I swear, by all that is sacred aud

honorable, 1 am moved in this affair solely by

consideration for my cousins honor and that of

the family, which has never been disgraced — "

But by me," he might have added. He bade

Paul farewell, and contrived, by the utterance of a

sew bitter sarcasms on the weakness of the female

sex, almost to make horn frenzied by suspicions

respecting Adeline, which, despite his efforts,

would arise, and suggest doubts of her truth.

When Francis was gone, Paul attempted to return

to his business, but found it impossible to properly

attend to it ; several times he resolved to go and

seek Adeline and tell her all be had heard, and

then he vowed never to see or speak to her more

but once, which would be to tell her his determination.

Again he discarded all such thoughts,

and began to saucy Francis Floris might be the

rogue, and a meddling, troublesome rogue, too.

He could curse horn for his interference — and yet,

if what he had advanced should be really true ?

Thus, thought after thought by turn moved horn

almost to distraction, and he eventually determined

to visit Adeline, and on his arrival, found she had

gone to visit Agnes Flors. He made a pretext

for not staying, and hastened to Quintain's house

to learn with mortification that she had returned

home, and by some mischance be had missed heron

his road thither. Thus filled with vexation

and distracting thoughts he returned home to

brood over the pleasant imaginings he had to thank

his new found friend for raising.

A day or two passed away and brought horn no

relief — he had seen Adeline two or three times,

but though he had resolved sternly to have a full

and complete explanation, his tongue clove to the

roof of his mouth, and prevented horn saying a

word upon the matter. Vanderneer had within

the last few days changed much in his demeanor ;

he was full of thought, and plainly vexatious

thought too ; he spoke snappishly to every one,

especially to both Adeline and Agnes, whenever

he encountered them ; they were the more

surprised at this as his conduct had hitherto been

so full of affection. Once Adeline enquired the

cause, and received an answer which sent her

weeping to her room without giving her any clue

to the motive for this unaccountable behaviour.

Agnes Flora had been vexed and hurt by his

strange conduct without being able to surmise

what had occasioned it ; and Adeline's perplexity

was not lightened to find herself treated with some

restraint by Paul ; her pride instantly took alarm,

andshe returned his behaviour tenfold ; a coolness

thus arose which laid Paul more than ever open

to his tempter, and thus soon all was confusion

where such unanimity and harmony had prevailed.

In the midst of it all Quintain Matsys and Michael

Flors arrived ; they first sought Quintain's home,

where his mother received horn with delight, but

by a strange coincidence, Agnes, accompanied by

Blanche Matsys and Caspar Hauser, had returned

the last visit of Adeline's and were then at Vanderneer's

house. Thither our hero and his worthy

companion followed ; Michael Flors was received

with great warmth, but Quintain, with a surprise

not to be described, found himself received with a

species of constraint on the part of Vanderneer he

never before experienced. Paul Breitstein, also,

was cool in his greeting. Adeline, however,

welcomed horn with a warmth unusual to her, for

she too perceived the coolness of her father and

Paul, and a generous feeling made her endeavor,

by her kindness, to remove the singular but painful

behaviour of her father and lover. Her conduct

did not escape the eyes of Agnes, although its

motive did ; the words of her cousin ran like lire

through her brain, and made her seel deadly sick

at heart. Was Quintain so base ? Could he be ?

Her whole heart answered no, yet was there

something more than common friendship in the

greeting of Adeline. She was confounded and

perplexed. Adeline, who, to do her justice, knew

not the secret affection of Agnes and Quintain,

increased in kindness of manner to our hero, and

by her coldness sent Paul to the utmost verge of

despair, and at the same time caused Agnes to

appear cool and seel very unhappy. To be thus

kept at a distance by those from whom he had

expected to receive the wannest expressions of

pleasure at his return, was a blow for which he

was not prepared, and he could not but feel

grateful to Adeline for her reception, or fail

to meet and return with equal warmth the kind

expressions respecting his safety which she uttered.

All this, though done without the motive ascribed

to it, had the effect of making all present, who

had been subjected to the base insinuations of

Francis Floris, believe he had spoken nought but

truth. Paul inwardly vowed revenge. Vanderneer,

who watched every movement of Quintain's towards

Agnes, both voice, speech, and gesture, felt

unpleasantly satisfied there Was too great reason to

believe he was not indifferent to the maiden ; and

yet his open behaviour to Adeline was enough to

make him — as far as his perception would carry

him — believe that he courted and was beloved by

her ; it involved an amount of double dealing and

villany of which be had the greatest horror and

detestation, yet former impressions and recollections

chained horn down from any hasty belief,even

of his own senses. He hated Francis Floris most

fearfully for bringing this matter forward, yet his

sense of propriety made horn feel that it was necessary

and proper to be thoroughly examined and

laid bare. Flors knowing little of the matter,

scarce observed it ; every one was readily friendly

to horn and he believed also to Quintain ; he therefore

was unaffected by their behaviour. He was

anxious to return to his home, and when he stated

so there was little opposition to it, though, under

other circumstances, Vanderneer would not have

heard of it. They lest the house ; Paul Breitstein

stayed behind — for why, he hardly knew, certainly

not to receive any warmer treatment for still preserving

his cold, stern, bearing. Adeline left horn

to seed upon it and sought her own room. Of

course Quintain accompanied Agnes and her father

to their dwelling, while Blanche and Caspar returned

home. Agnes did not alter her coldness

of manner, nor did Quintain seek, by word or gesture,

to make her ; his pride was touched — he was

hurt by her conduct towards horn when he knew

he had never given her occasion for it. He had

returned from what had been a perilous journey,

and at the influence of some strange whim, of

which he could form no fixed idea, he was to be

received by her with a freezing coldness which

chilled his soul. He was unconscious of having

given her offence, therefore the explanation, the

charge, or whatever it might be, must come from

her. His stay when they reached the dwelling of

Michael Flors was short ; the old man pressed horn

hard to remain, but Agnes said not a word ;he

therefore would not consent to the old man's wish,

and quitted, wondering what could have produced

this extraordinary change, in one whose nature

appeared so foreign to the indulgence in any weak

caprice. Speculation was out of the question, for

he knew not the kind friend, who had during his

absence caused this quiet commotion ; and trying

to make himself believe that crc long, he should

arrive at the knowledge of the mystery, he sought

to banish the painful influence o'er his mind, which

her distance occasioned, and without delay, continue

the practice of the art which was to wm his

bride, if she was to be won. He visited the artist

with whom he had previously made arrangements;

he was a painter who could color with neatness

and finish, and could draw with accuracy : but an

incapacity for design kept horn among those of

mediocre talent. He had a facility in communicating

his knowledge, and Quintain an aptitude for

acquiring it; and a three hours' lesson, one of close

application, led horn to believe he should not find

the difficulty of accomplishing greater than he

could surmount. He returned home yvith a painting

lent horn by his tutor, and shutting himself in

his study, he proceeded to copy it ; he could already

draw tolerably, and soon drew in the outline

on the panel, and before he left off finished the first

painting scarcely to his own satisfaction, though

an experienced observer would have given horn

praise for it. Every day he had a lesson,, and

every hour he could spare he practised from dawn

to midnight. During this time he made frequent

visits to Michael Flors, and latterly he perceived

that iv Flors too there was a coolness for which he

could uot account; several times he had been unable

to see Agnes during his visits, but when he

did, she displayed the same remarkable chilliness

of aspect which had before pained horn so

exceedingly. Mortified by the reception he had

met with from Vanderneer, he had not paid horn

a visit since the one already spoken of : that had

not been returned, nor had he by chance met horn

while abroad. Once he encountered Paul Bernstein,

who so decidedly saw and passed horn without

speaking that he felt the blood burn on his brow

and tingle in his fingers. He tried in vain to

discover in his own conduct some cause for this

extraordinary behaviour, and finding that the

mysterious distance was increasing, he determined

to have an explanation from some one, and he

thought Agnes the person, under all circumstances,

the most fitting and proper to obtain

it from. Aster some consideration he addressed

a note to her. It ran thus: —

Beloved Agnes.

I cannot observe your strange coldness

of manner to me without the greatest pain ; tome

who, of all persons, might expect a behaviour

so different. Had I given cause for it I should

not seel so surprised or wounded as now I do, but

scrutinizing every act previous to my absence,

during it, and since my return, I cannot find one

which should teach me that, in performing it, I

have done you wrong — you whom I have so loved,

so honored, so worshipped. Ah, Agnes I I thought

you had faith in mc. Ask your heart whether I

am unworthy of trust. If it answers Yea, discard

me for ever ; but if, as I hope, and as I am sure,

I have always acted so as to make it believe in

my honor, then do not fail to meet me tomorrow

night, an hour before sun-set, at Brabon's

Landing-place, and there make me to know in

what I have caused your displeasure so as to make

you treat one with scorn who can place his hand

truly upon his heart and asseverate, without evasion,

that he is innocent of cause, directly or

remotely, which should tend to vex or distress

you. If you will not meet me, why, God keep

you happily now and for ever — wc shall never

meet again."

He signed the letter, and without trusting himself

to read it, he induced his sister Blanche to

deliver it. To Blanche, when she arrived, Agnes

was all tenderness ; she hung about her with the

fondness of a loved sister, and when they were

alone, which took place shortly after their arrival,

by Agnes leading her to her own room, she there

renewed her protestations of debit at seeing

Blanche. After these were responded to Blanche

said —

Pray who is that stranger I saw in the ,

when I entered? he was looking at

some paintings with your father."

"He is my cousin, Francis Floris," replied

Agnes.

You will pardon me, dear Agnes," said

Blanche, '• but I do not like horn ; there is an expression

in his face and eyes particularly displeasing

to me, although he's what most maidens would

terra handsome."

Oh, Blanche," cried Agnes flinging her arms

round her neck, "if it were not sinful, I should

say I hate him — bitterly hate him."

Hush — hush ; it is not well to hate any one,"

responded Blanche, " especially relatives ; but I

must confess I dislike his looks. There is something

in it which would make me ever distrust

him."

He is terribly, terribly repugnant — to me,"

ejaculated Agnes with great earnestness ; " oh, if

you knew how I feel to loathe horn, and yet — "

She paused.

And yet what, dear Agnes ?" asked Blanche,

aster waiting her reply.

Nothing, nothing," replied Agnes, turning

away with a mournful expression. " Let us

change the subject," she added, and with some

slight embarrassment continued, " you have not

said one word about — about — your brother."

It is, dear Agnes, because you have not asked

me one word respecting him. Ido not think he

is very well," she continued, speaking in something

like a soliloquy ; " he is pale and thoughtful, and

buries himself for ever in his study. He has

taken the singular whim, of not suffering any one

to enter there, either while he is in it or while he

is absent from it. I suspect he is about some

work which will astonish us when completed, but

I am afraid his incessant application will injure his

health. I have seen the reflection of his lamp at

a late hour, and have heard horn moving crc the

sun has appeared above, the horizon.

Can you form no guess upon what he is

employed ?" asked Agnes, with an air of deep interest.



None," replied Blanche," aud yet I have

tried to discover it ; but whatever it is, I know

when it appears it will reflect honor upon himself,

and upon those connected with him.

And do you think," asked Agnes, in a very

low, hesitating tone, " that any inducement could

make horn act falsely ?"

A flash of scarlet passed overtake face of Blanche

she drew herself proudly up, and she was about

to make an almost indignant reply, but a glance

at Agnes' face checked the anger, and she said ina

calm tone —

I am sure, dear Agnes, such a thought is not

the offspring of your own mid. Your generous

heart would not "make you believe ill of any one,

much less of one who has given you every reason

to know horn all that is highlander and honorable.

Is he not so ? Ah, Agnes I I would stake even-happiness

which I may possess on the rectitude of

his conduct in the simplest act, what should I do

on an important one ?"

I seel I have wronged horn by such a question,"

exclaimed Agnes, with a fluttering voice

and a drooping head ; " tell me, dearest Blanche,

did he mention me crc you came hither."

AGNES Flora DISCOVERING THE MYSTERY OP Quintain MATSYS SECRET APPLICATION.

lie said little, but he gave me this note to

give to you'' returned Blanche, drawing from her

bosom the missive which her brother had entrusted

to her. Agnes eagerly seized it.

Oh, Blanche," she cried, " why did you not

give this to me crc now ? it was cruel to keep it

from me so long." She tore it. open, and, with a

pale face and heaving bosom, she read it swiftly

from beginning to end. Blanche watched her

closely, and saw by her changing features of what

import the contents of the letter were to her.

When Agnes finished it, her heart was full. She

turned to Blanche, her eyes thronging with tears,

and hiding her face in her bosom, she murmured

—

I will come, tell horn I will come."

I will not forget," said Blanche pressing her

to her heart.

I have done wrong," said Agnes, weeping,

very wrong, and now I seel it bitterly, most bitterly.

I have wronged horn in my thoughts, but

never will I again while. I live. Oh, Blanche,

you who know so well how to honor where you

love — "

Stay," interrupted Blanche, " it were dishonorable

in me, dear Agnes, to tacitly draw from

you any acknowledgement which circumstances

might not justify you in making. I know your

frame of mid at the present moment — I know it

requires sympathy, and to obtain it would

probably cause an avowal which you might

subsequently wish had been withheld. I do

sympathize with you, and care to know no more

than I now know."

Agnes was very grateful for this generosity,

and did not fail to acknowledge it. Blanche,

after she had staid some time, departed with

many a fervent expression of attachment from

Agnes, who did not leave her chamber until she

had ascertained that Francis Floris had departed,

and her father was alone.

Quintain received the answer to his letter with

feelings such as those alone could measure who

had been similarly situated. It may be supposed

that when the hour came he was there ; he had

hired a boat, for the evening was very beautiful,

and there was little chance of inquisitive eyes or

ears being open to catch what was never intended

for there to know. The chimes which announced

the appointed hour had only commenced, when a

female, closely wrapped in a mantle, hastily

approached him. He instantly recognized her to

be Agnes, and sprung forward to meet her ; the

warm pressure of his hand was returned, and the

beaming look shining in her fond eyes told horn

the coldness had for ever vanished.

•* This visit is very kind, Agnes," he exclaimed.

How shall I thank you ?"

By not speaking of it as such," she replied.

It was my duty — and no less my pleasure than

my duty," she added quickly, for sear of misinterpretation.

Quintain pressed her hand fondly.

Wo are likely to be observed here," he said ;

1 have a boat at hand — the Scheldt is like a

mirror, and the air is soft and balmy ; n sew

minutes upon its placid waters will not be, perhaps,

unpleasing lo you, will prevent our being

noticed, and enable us to converse without scar of

being overheard."

But the boatman," suggested Agnes, glancing

at that functionary, who was loaning with lazy

calmness upon one of the oars.

Quintain smiled.

I have known the man from boyhood — he is

both dire sand dumb," he said.

I will accompany you," exclaimed Agnes.

She divested herself of her mantle and gave

horn her hand ; he assisted her into the boat, while

the boatman steadied it ; in a sew minutes they

wc re from the land, aud Quintain obtained from

Agnes an explanation of her conduct.

Thy cousin Francis has thought fit to don me

with the habits of a villain," he said, bitterly ; "he

shall know bow easy I rest in such garments."

For mercy sake do not quarrel," said Agnes,

with alarm depicted on her features. " Treat

horn with the contempt he deserves."

Fear not, beloved Agnes, I will treat horn as

becomes his conduct," returned Quintain. " I

will speak no more of hir n; but now I see why th"

good burgomaster hath treated me coolly, and thy

father also."

My father!" ejaculated Agnes, with surprise.

Even horn," replied Quintain.

Hail I known this," said Agnes, with tears in

her eyes, " I would not have added to their unkindness

as I have done."

Nay, never heed it," he exclaimed, " it was

but natural that you should have acted so, under

such a misconception ; it is equally so for Wanderer

and thy father to have done the same ; for

what claim have 1 upon either like unto lliee or

Adeline? The only point upon which I feel

wounded is that they could deem me guilty of

such baseness without at once openly putting me

to the proof."

"It was, I am ?hire, because they could not

credit the wicked insinuation that they still received

you without challenge, though they were,

moved by his artful suggestions, to be distant to

thee."

Still they might have given me the chance of

repudiating the charge or acknowledging my guilt

by shamefully flying," argued Quintain. " I have

not acted in any way that this honorable course of

proceeding should he denied me — but let it pass ;

I will make this knave's plans recoil upon his own

head. He has been busy, too, with Paul Bernstein,

for he has passed me without an inclination

of the head, although he fixed his eye full upon

mine."

He has not filled the ear of Adeline Wanderer

against you, at least," said Agnes, looking

archly, yet anxiously at him.

Dear Agnes, let me set that question at rest forever,"

exclaimed he, with grave earnestness. " I

love but you alone — no other maiden holds any portion

qf my heart, or has any place there but you. I

esteem Adeline, for she is worthy of the esteem of

all who know her ; but it is such an esteem as you

could not quarrel with — such as you would thyself,

nay, I do believe, were the mist of prejudice

and vile insinuation cleared from your mid, you do

already feel for her. She loves and is beloved by

Paul Breitstein. It is only of late that I have discovered

it — not from what I have heard, but what

I have seen ; and I am sure I have not misjudged

her. Her kindness to me was the result of witnessing

the coldness of others, which not knowing

the real cause, and never imagining it, I am sure

she thought as ungenerous as it happened to be.

I have felt grateful for it, but only such gratefulness

as you yourself would countenance and the

kindness warrants."

I do believe you, dear Quintain," she said,

placing both her hands in his with a frankness

which showed she spoke from her heart. " 1

will never again doubt you, and love Adeline withall

my heart for her sweet kindness."

There spoke your heart," said Quintain with

pleasure lighting up his eyes. " I fully understand

the motive for the base conduct of Francis

Floris ; he seeks tliy hand, and acts thus unworthily

to hurl me from the esteem of thy friends and

thy love. Well, let horn do bis worst, I defy hir n;

I will foil horn with his own weapons — I will humble

horn to the dust when least he does expect it."

You will not draw your sword, or hazard thy

life in combat with horn?" exclaimed Agnes,

clasping lor hands with earnest supplication.

A word to my father "

No," he interrupted hastily, " I have loved

and honored thy father — I have shed my blood

and risked my life for horn ; he ought to know me

well. Not one word will I say to horn on this

matter, and if you love me, Agnes, you will

leave my character in his hands. Let Francis

Floris have the full benefit of his artful hints and

base lies, I put my trust in you. I will defy

horn, and will lay bare his villany when he hath not

the chance of retreating from or denying it.

Were thy father and the burgomaster less cognisant

of my nature, I would drag horn before them

by the throat and make horn disgorge his lies ;

but, as it is, I will punish horn by blasting his hopes

in the moment of anticipated triumph, and thy father

and the burgomaster by showing they had

no right to doubt me as they have done."

A goes could not but concur in bis sentiments,

and when this topic was thoroughly discussed they

proceeded to others more agreeable to both. A

far different scene, unexpected by them, was acting

upon tho shore. Francis Floris, ever since

the visit of Blanche Matsys, had watched Flors'

house incessantly ; he judged some message had

been brought by Blanche, and he expected that

either Quintain would desire to visit her secretly, or

that an assignation had been made, at which he

resolved other parties should be present than those

who made the appointment. Accordingly, from

the window of an opposite house, to which he had

contrived to obtain access, he saw Agnes leave

her father's dwelling ; he followed her for a short

distance, and then a man, whom he employed for

that purpose, took his place while he made for

Vanderneer's dwelling. The burgomaster was

at home, and when Francis saw horn, he exclaimed

in a great hurry —

I have now au opportunity of proving words

I will take you to a spot where Agnes Flors

hath an assignation with "

Silence," exclaimed Vanderneer, abruptly.

Francis turned his eyes round the room and saw

Adeline Vanderneer ; he bowed to her, but she

took no notice of horn, and left the room.

Thou shouldst have been more heedful''

said Vanderneer.

Nay, I believe she understood me not," exclaimed

Francis. " But wc waste time — let us

hasten ; I will show you Quintain Matsys in company

with Agnes Flors— a private assignation

which "

I hate this following about in holes and corners,"

said Vanderneer, gruffly ; •' why not challenge

the lad openly and honestly at once ? He

will answer it fairly ; I'll wager it will prove buta

boys error after all."

A boys error," ejaculated Francis, contemptuously

; " bnt methinks a boys error, which destroys

your daughter's happiness, and, perhaps,

her honor, will not set so lightly upon you when

it is too late to repair it."

There is something more than a touch of the

soul fiend in yon, good Master Francis," exclaimed

Vanderneer, with acrimony ; " but my

child shall not say hereafter, I forgot her interest,

in any hour. Have with you — but I tell you

plainly, I would as soon lake a friendly supper

with that Count Idenberg, whose name is so rankin

Antwerp, as proceed with you on this errand."

Francis gave a sardonic smile, but he had gained

his point — he cared for naught else. He hurried

Vanderneer to the spot where he had appointed

the spy he had employed to meet him. The man

was there, and acquainted them that he had traced

the maiden to Brabon's Landing-place, that there

she had entered a boat with a youth, and a boatman

had rowed them towards the centre of the

river. Francis dismissed the man and hurried to

the landing-place, followed by Vanderneer, whose

bile continually rose to his throat, and whose hand

kept fumbling about the hilt of his sword. Ever

and anon he eyed his companion from head to

foot. How he hated this popinjay — and yet the

man was doing horn, apparently, a service.

This is pretty employment for me, truly," he

muttered, and grated his teeth, lie said no more,

for very shortly they were at the landing-place.

Francis speedily discovered the boat and its occupants.



There," he said, in a tone of triumph, " behold

! have 1 deceived you ?"

Vanderneer looked at the boat, and saw Quin-tin

seated with Agnes ; they were yet near enough

to distinguish them perfectly. Vanderneer's eyes

filled with water ; he brushed them with his band,

but they filled again, and blinded him. He dashed

them dry.

I had great faith in that boy —very great faith

in horn," be muttered. "Whom shall wo trust? He

weds no daughter of mine — he never — but this is

childish. Sir," he exclaimed, turning sternly to

Francis,"you have kept your word; perhaps I ought

to thank you, but I cannot find it in my heart to do

so. Let roe add for your prudence, that I require

no further proving, no further establishing of this

boys folly. 1 have seen enough — know enough.

When next wc meet, wc pass as strangers who do

not desire to become acquainted. I give you good

even."

Vanderneer hurried away, and Francis, looking

after horn with a glance of scorn, exclaimed —

The thick headed dealer in wool hath the

fool's honesty with a fool's roughness, and more

than a fool's weakness. Well, let horn go — I

have gained my point with him — I need horn no

more. Flors is a more difficult character to

manage ; with horn I must be most cautious. His

attachment to yon hound is extraordinary, but I

will weed it out of horn, or let me be flung, as 1

shall deserve to be. Now to Flors, to shew horn

how his daughter spends these balmy evenings.

By Sant Benevento ! but I might almost fancy

myself iv Italy. Ha ! who have wc here ? Paul

Breitstein, by all that is favorable to my hopes.

A fair evening to you, friend," he cried, as Paul

drew near. The youth stopped and answered the

salvation with a sullen air. Francis would not

notice it, but said with an eager lone —

Thou hast treated my communication to thee,

respecting the fair Adeline, with suspicion ; thou

shalt have confirmation that I have not spoken

falsely or idly. Look yonder, thou seest yon boat

dost thou not also recognize those within it ?"

Paul started. He turned his eyes to the boat

pointed out to horn ; it was at some distance, and

the fading light did not assist the vision. The

constant harping of his mid upon one thought

enabled his imagination to supply rapidly all that

his eyes failed to convey to his knowledge.

It is Quintain Matsys," he exclaimed.

Aye — and his fair companion," suggested

Francis, with a sneering smile.

Paul strained his eyes to trace a form well

known to horn, but with an unsatisfied air he

said —

It is impossible at this distance to say who she

may be."

And thou a lover?" contemptuously ejaculated

Francis. "By my best hopes of a fair and

beauteous bride ! I could tell the form of my love

though heaven lent me a light less than equal to

that of yon twinkling star, which glitters, diamond

like, in the western sky. Look again, man."

Paul's face became white and red by turns ; he

laid his clenched hand upon his breast, as though

to keep down the violent beating of his heart,

and once more bent his eyes with intense attention.

He muttered in a low tone —

It looks not like Adeline, and yet — "

** It is she," said Francis, with a laugh that made

Paul's blood boil. " Nay, thou needs gaze no

more — the fair Adeline sits there in loving closeness

to Quintain Matsys. Now if thou dost love

the maiden, and think her worthy risking thy

blood, claim her from yon dog with the point of

thy bright blade."

I will, I will," exclaimed Paul, through his

teeth, " and if she be not mine, she never shall be

his. Oh God I what a change is this to all I had

so fondly expected ! " He covered his brow with

his hand as he spoke.

Nay," said Francis, " never look down for

such an act ; the maiden will yet be thine. A

cozening tongue, though it may have turned her

from thee for a time, may not have been so successful

as to render her unworthy of thy love.

Meet me an hour hence iv any place where wc

may converse undisturbed, and then will wc arrange

the best course to pursue ; you shall, in all

things, find me a staunch friend."

Paul complied with his wish, and, grasping

hands, they parted, one to ponder with au aching

heart at what be supposed be had witnessed — the

other to gloat over the success of his schemes, and

complete the great object of the night by fetching

Flors, in order that he might meet his daughter

aud Quintain when they landed. He was

not long in finding the old painter, and less

time in communicating his intelligence and wishes.

Flors readily agreed to accompany horn, for he felt

it necessary that some decided step should be taken

upon the important matter of the disposal of his

daughter's band. Francis Floris, when he first

commenced undermining Quintain Matsys in the

estimation of Flors, was very indirect in ibis

observations and allusions, and pleasantly hinted

his supposition that Agnes aud Quiutiu would be

wedded eventually ; and, at the same time,

expressed the great envy he had of such happiness.

Flors instantly took alarm ; be denied that there

was any thought or prospect of such a wedding,

and sounded bis assertions on bis own knowledge

that a love affair already existed between Adeline

Vanderneer and Quiutin. The moment that

Francis ascertained Flors had iml.il. i d such an

opinion, he set to work in earnest, and partly

succeeded in making the old man believe, however

honorable Quintain might have proved in every

other affair, be was at least culpable in this. It

is said, " constant dripping of water will wear out

a stone." Francis ever harped upon the subject

when with Flors, and the old mau, having made a

vow that none but a painter should wed his

daughter, lent too ready an ear to all the falsehoods

carefully framed, and the ungenerous

constructions which the knave put upon all our

hero's services to horn, and which had been

brought forward by the old man to prove the

right he bad to place faith in him. All Flors

could say in his behalf was met by Francis with

some cunning misinterpretation, some shameful

perversion of the real motive which had actuated

Quintain iv performing it, until Flors began to

imagine that, so far from being a greatly benefitted

party, he had been injured, and looked upon the

youth with the eyes of one who had suffered

wrong by him. There was a small still voice,

which told horn he was acting ungratefully, but he

tried to stifle it by specious reasoning, in which he

was assisted by Francis Floris.

He required little inducement under this false

impression to meet bis daughter returning from

her excursion. He was absent when she quitted

the house, and on returning, found her from home.

Upon enquiring, he ascertained that she had lest

no message, and supposed she had gone to vespers

; be was speedily awakened from such belief

by Francis' communication, and was but too anxious

to destroy Quintain's hopes, and what he

deemed bis daughter's weak delusion, which tic

fancied would soon wear off, not to readily make

for the spot where he expected to encounter them.

Brabon 's Landing-place was soon gained, but the

boat was too far off for horn to distinguish its passengers.



1 will await their return here," he said.

And 1 will leave you," observed Francis. " I

have no desire to witness the meeting, which will

be unpleasant to all parties. Agues may, perhaps,

be less affected should I not be present, for

I have found many a one make a rash determination

simply because of the presence of one in

whose eyes they would fancy their dignity lowered

by tamely yielding to those who bad a right to

command them."

Perhaps it will be as well," responded the

old man. " I shall see you in the morning I

hope ?"

Without fail, and the picture also, which I

think you will acknowledge surpasses all I have

ever done," exclaimed Francis.

An' if it does, thought the son-in-law for me,"

ejaculated Flors, warmly.

Now pray Heaven to keep thee in that mid,"

cried Francis, earnestly.

Never doubt mc. Farewell !" replied Flors.

Francis grasped his bands with au affectation

of great warmth, bade horn farewell, and departed.

Flors prepared to wait the return of the boat with

as much patience as one in his position might be

supposed to possess. He was not long kept in

suspense; he saw Ie prow of thcboatcleaviug the

waters as it neared the shore ; a glance informs!

him of the truth of Francis' intelligence. He

stood in the shadow of a high wall, which was the

boundary and protection of a handsome garden ■

he heard the grate of the keel as it touched the

shore; he saw Quintain spring out and band Agnes

from her seat ; they approached him, and, when

opposite to horn, he advanced and confronted

them. Both started at his appearance, and Agnes

uttered a slight scream.

You did not anticipate the pleasure of meeting

me, I presume ?" said her father, sarcastically.

"It is unexpected," said Quintain, recovering

his self-possession, and speaking with much firmness

of demeanor.

Not more unexpected than unwished, doubtless,"

he replied.

You must strangely misjudge the feelings of

your daughter and myself to suppose that your

presence, at any time, however unexpected, could

be unwished," returned Quintain, with a grave tone

which made his remark sound very like a reproof.

You have known me some time, Michael Flors,"

he added, " and have had fair reason to prove my

disposition towards you. I can challenge safely

any act from which you could infer I desired not,

at any time and always, to see you."

It sometimes happens that motives do not appear

upon the face of actions," said the old man ;

the greatest knave dupes the honest man by affecting

the possession of virtues to which he has

no claim. Are you answered ?"

"I am," replied Quintain, with evidently a

wounded spirit. " Answered, Michael Flors,

from the suggestions of others, not from your

own heart."

I have a habit of thinking for myself," drily

returned the painter ; and then added quickly,

having previously drawn Agnes from the care of

Quintain, " Come, Agnes, wc will return home ;

you have already been absent too long. There

is little fear of being molested on our way ; if wc

should, I doubt not Heaven will lend me aid to

protect thee and myself, without the interference

of any other person."

Quintain bit his lip at this ungenerous speech,

but made no reply. The eyes of Agnes thronged

with tears ; she held her hand to Quintain, in spite

of her father's frown, and said —

Farewell, Quintain. shave not forgotten thy

services — may Heaven reward, and keep you in

happiness."

Quintain pressed her hand and, raising it to his

lips, saluted it. He thanked her for her kindness,

and reiterated her farewell. As he concluded, Flors

turned sharply to horn and said —

Young man, I know your views and wishes —

you know mine. I shall never alter while I breathe.

Under all circumstances, I do not, therefore, expect

to see you at my dwelling until you have

seen your error, and done your best to repair it.

Yen understand mc. lam immoveable."

Michael Flors," said Quintain, somewhat

sternly. " I shall never seek to make you alter

the vow you have made ; I do not desire to disturb

thy peace, and therefore will not trouble thee

with my presence. But, mark me ; in the election

I have made I will never, so help me Heaven I

change or waver, and the time will yet come

when you will regret your unjust treatment of mc.

Farewell."

He gave an earnest adieu to Agnes, and

hastened away ; he had already made such arrangements

— expecting some such mandate from

her father — with her, that if she could not constantly

see horn, she should very frequently hear

|"t him. He sought his home and sit up half the

night at his new employment ; be snatched but a

few hours from toil, and soon after dawn he was

at his work again. And now, for several days, he

proceeded in his work uninterruptedly ; he found

a great advantage in his previous knowledge of

drawing; he had an excellent conception of design,

and a good eye for color; he wanted the mechanical

handling of the pencil, and this, under an able

tutor, impelled, by an earnest desire to obtain

his point, he bid fair to speedily accomplish. He

found in Caspar Hauser one who could well

undertake the management of his work, as a

worker in iron — one faithful, trustworthy, and

upon whom he could place every dependance —

and proceeded, unfettered by any drawback, to do

his best to rival, and that successfully, his detractor.



CHAP. XXXIII.

Several weeks passed away without change or

any important incident occurring. Quintain had

not seen Vanderneer, nor had he encountered

Flors. He had kept so studiously close to

his work that he rarely stepped abroad. Very

little time did he sacrifice in sleep, and soon the

veil of ignorance was lifted from his eyes aud he

began to see his way in the art. His progress became

proportionably more rapid. One afternoon,

when he had nearly completed a picture which

was " all his own," he stood for a moment gazing

at it to see what it required in finishing, and was

startled by an exclamation of surprise from someone

behind him. He had been so scrupulously

particular in keeping every one from his studio,

in preserving from every one his new occupation,

even to binding down his tutor not mention

to mortal the name of his pupil, that it was

with an angry feeling he turned round, expecting

to find his sister or Caspar Hauser. What was

bis surprise at finding Agnes Flors, standing looking

with astonished eyes on the production of his

pencil. How quickly a woman arrives at motives

when her heart is concerned in the acts of one of

the opposite sex. Agnes saw the painting was

fresh from the hand of Quintain ; in on instant she

perceived he was endeavoring to claim her from her

father without infringing on the vow he had made.

What a fresh fountain of love sprung up in her

heart for horn when she saw the mystery of his

close and secret confinement, early and late, to his

studio. Tears of joy and gracefulness gushed from

her eyes, aud casting herself upon his bosom, she

exclaimed —

Dear, dear Quintain— and all this toil aud

labor is forme 1"

He pressed her to his heart, and exclaimed

fondly — \

It is a labor of love."

A pause ensued. The hearts of both were full.

Agnes appreciated the devotion for her which this

act displayed, and Quintain saw that she did so,

and was on the instant repaid for the many long

weary hours he had passed in attaining the art.

When the emotion which both felt had subsided,

Quintain, seeling all further disguise was useless,

led her to the painting and endeavored to extract

from her an opinion of merits and demerits, which

he knew, from long associations with talented

works of art, she was capable of giving. It might

have been that she viewed it with the eyes of affection

— it might have been, that the knowledge

of application, and the motive for which it had

been accomplished, enhanced its merits in her

estimation ; but be it what it might, it was enough

that her praise was warm and fervent — sufficient,

indeed, to prompt our hero to greater efforts. She

did not say it was quite equal to the expectations

her father had formed of the production of the

painter who was to wm her baud, but she did say

that it was the work of one who had evidently

sufficient ability to arrive at the excellence required

; aud as be was about to asseverate his resolve

to accomplish it if it were to be done, a

slight movement in the room attracted his attention.

It was with no little surprise that he found

Francis Floris standing within the room, near the

door, having, in all probability, not lost a word of

their discourse. Quintain's brow lowered, and his

eye glittered. Quitting the side of .Agnes, he advanced

towards Frauds, and said with bitter emphasis

—

I was unprepared for this visit. To what pars

of your plans am I indebted for this undesired intrusion

? Let me, at the same time, suggest that

it is usual for gentles to request themselves to be

announced crc they invade the privacy of any

apartment in a strangers dwelling."

It is a custom I should not have departed

from," returned Francis, haughtily, and yet with

a sneer, " had there been a servant in your hall to

acquaint you with my presence ; but an open door,

and the absence of the customary means of making

myself known, led me to take a step which, but

for my explanation, I certainly acknowledge, in

respect to good breeding, looks questionable. The

purport of my presence is as quickly and easily

explained. My worthy cousin Michael Flors having

some distaste for his daughter's visits hither,

requested me, as lie had a conception that she purposed

coming hither, to follow, and desire her immediate

return with me : so fair Agnes, an' you are

ready to depart, I will with much gratification escort,

you home."

You may spare yourself all such trouble," ob-sei

veil Agnes, speaking with considerable warmth.

Trouble!" be ejaculated looking at bis cousin

with an expression which made Quintain's hand instantly

seek the hilt of his sword. " Trouble !"

he repeated. " Happiness, you should "

Peace!" she interrupted with a dignity which

had the effect of instantly rendering himjsilent." I

desire no comment on my words; least of all from

you. In this matter I shall act as becomes my position.

lam not a child, nor yet a slave. As

thought so pleased with the office of tale bearer.you

will perhaps favor me by returning to my father

aud acquainting horn with my intention of returning

home shortly." She turned from horn as she

concluded, and walked to the further end of the

apartment, as though to forbid a reply. Francis

Floris set all his blood rush through his veins at

a boiling heat: he bit his lip till the blood came.

It was hard to bear her stinging words, but how

much harder the cool smile of contempt which

curled the Upper lip of Quintain. It did not, however,

answer his purpose to make a brawl with one

or offence with the other — he mastered his feelings

with much exertion, and said to Agues —

It was thy father's wish you should return

home with mc."

"It is my will that Ido not, ' she returned with

calm firmness.

I presume thought satisfied with thy answer."

exclaimed Quintain, in a tone not to be misunderstood,

" and when I inform you," he added, " that

your presence is far from desirable, I trust you

will save me the more unpleasant task of plainly

desiring your absence."

'There was an insulting look in the eyes of Francis

as he listened to the words of Quiutin ; he

folded his arms, and said scornfully —

Truly hast thou measured my feeling to thee

in thy words. It it less pleasant for me to be

near than for thou to have me in thy sight ; unless

a fitting time and place made the presence of

each a satisfaction to the other. Wc shall meet

again. For you, fair cousin, despite thy haughty

and sarcastic words, I feel nor anger nor offence ;

thou canst move no feeling iv me but worship. I

will give thy words to thy father, and doubt not

but he will either meet thee, orex'iectthy return

with impatience."

No answer was given to his speech, and with a

profound salute to the maiden, ho turned on his

heel and quitted the apartment. Quintain followed

horn to the outer door and saw horn turn slowly

up the street crc he returned to Agnes. Upon

rejoining her, he found her in tears. He asked

her why she wept.

I grieve to find the change which has of late

come o'er my father, since this evil-minded Francis

has become known to horn," she returned.

I grieve for his ungenerous conduct to you, and

his altered behaviour to me ; he is weak in supposing

it will enable horn to gain his point.— l

would rather die than wed Francis ; nay, would

rather endure his bitterest curse," she exclaimed,

with great excitement, " than become that man's

wife."

"Has your father more pointedly proposed

Francis Floris to you than he did once in my presence

?" asked Quintain.

He has," she replied ; "he has insisted upon

it, he has named a day, three short months hence,

for the nuptials, and has threatened me with his

curse if I do" not consent. — 'Tis easier, Quintain,

to die than give it."

"Heaven grant me health and strength," he

murmured earnestly, and almost inaudibly, and

then said aloud — " Fear not, beloved Agnes, there

is time enough to accomplish more than I design

in three months ; but let the worst come to tho

worst, I will unmask this knave, crc he has proceeded

far enough to cause thy father too much

pain in the retraction of his unkindness, to which

he has been induced by the artful insinuations and

machinations of thy knavish cousin. Cheer thee,

beloved — Heaven will favor our love — wc shall

be happy yet."

Agnes sighed, and fervently responded to his

hope. After a brief conversation, in which she

explained, that, having heard he was closely and

secretly employed in his studio, she had naturally

felt an intense curiosity to penetrate the mystery.

She rested not until an opportunity enabled her to

visit Blanche, and then learning that, os usual, he

was closely employed in his studio, she sought him.

By a chance he had not locked the door ; she

opened it, and, with astonishment and gratification

not to be described, she discovered his occupation.

Quintain was annoyed to think Francis Floris had

seen it also, but a second thought assured horn

that for his own sake he would not mention it, as

Flors, on finding Quintain bidding fair to become

a good painter, would in all probability cool down

in his anger and listen to the wishes of the young

people. He, Quintain, wished to surprise Flors

by exhibiting to horn a painting which he could not

deem it possible to be the work of his hand, and

then to take a subject of the old man's own choice,

and shew horn that he could even do better, and,

by that one, claim the hand of Agnes, which then

he believed would not be denied him. He knew

the 'effect of first impressions, and was anxious,

which was only natural, that the result of his labors

should have every advantage it was possible

for there to possess, and that was the reason why

he preserved such strict secrecy.

When Agnes was about to depart Quintain

wished to accompany her, but she would have no

other companion than Blanche, and this was from

a prudent motive; for if Francis Floris had spoken

the truth, it was not impossible her father would

meet them ; if he should do so while Quintain was

with her, there was little doubt but the breach

already existing between them would be widened,

and that, she was most anxious to avoid. When

our hero understood her motive he coincided

with her, and she bade horn farewell. Blanche

readily acquiesced in the request to accompany

her. A few days subsequent to this Quiutin

received the long expected note from Frank

Merritt to meet horn at the appointed spot ; he

hastened to obey it. On his road thither he encountered

Paul Breitstein and Francis Floris ;

the former broke from his companion, and, rushing

up to our hero, said with great impetuosity—

Quintain Matsys, you are a scoundrel."

Quintain clapped his hand to his sword, and

half drew it from its scabbard under the influence

of rage ; but he sheathed it again, and said —

But that I knew thee to be under the influence

of a knave, I had chastised thee for that word on

the spot."

Paul waved his hand contemptuously.

I know thee to be no coward," he said, " nor

will I treat what thou mayest as an idle boast ;

but," he added, grasping his sword, " I repeat,

you are a scoundrel— you have acted — if not tome,

to her I love— as a villain, and shall answer

to me for it."

You are too hasty," interposed Francis.

Silence, man," exclaimed Quintain, sternly ;

wc need not think interference — wc can settle

this matter without thee. Tell me," he continued,

turning to Paul, " in what manner I have acted

villanous to one you love ?"

Hast thou not made overtures to Adeline

Vanderneer, and at the same time, been professed,

heart and soul, to Agnes Flors ?" asked Paul

bitterly.

No," returned Quintain, in a firm clear voice

I never addressed one word of affection, intentionally,

to Adeline Vanderneer — words of esteem

only have I used, and they are her desert, let horn

say me nay who dares."

'Tis false," shouted Paul, excitedly ; " hast

thou not made assignations with her ? was she

not in a boat with thee upon the Scheldt some

weeks since ? Answer rae that."

No, certainly not," returned Quintain. " I

never met her by appointment, nor was she with

me in a boat at any lime."

Thou lies to say so," roared Paul, "thou best

foully. I saw her with thee with these eyes."

The lie to thy throat," returned Quintain,

disturbed from his calmness ; " look you, Paul

Breitstein — I have borne more from you than I

would have done from any man breathing, but I

bear no more ; he that tells mo I lie, must support

that calumny by his sword, or make ample atonement

by an humble apology."

My sword shall answer for me that thou

best," cried Paul, with the same vehemence as

before.

It is enough," returned Quintain, hardly able

to preserve his calmness. " I will meet thee at

the grey of the dawn in the morning, on the waste

land a mile to the left of the east gate."

Why not now ?" asked Paul eagerly.

Because thy blood is hot and would lay thee

open to my sword," returned Quintain ; " independent

of which, I have an engagement which

takes precedence of yours."

"Be it so," replied Paul ; " I will be at the

appointed spot."

Thou shalt not have to wait for me," said

Quintain laconically, and turned upon his heel.

Paul looked aster horn, and muttered —

He looks not like a villain — yet is it proved

home to him." 'Then turning to Francis Floris,

he cried, fiercely — " If thou hast deceived me,

thou shalt answer it to me most amply."

Marry, thou, too, art like the others," said

Francis, with a sneer ; " thou hadst better at

once make a bosom friend of you blacksmith, and

let horn quietly dupe you to the full, and thank

horn sort when ye discover it. Tell me what

have 1 to gain by opening your eyes to his

knavery ? What matters it to me if he jilts

Adeline Vanderneer, and makes a fool of you?

It touches roe not, save that I would unmask a

rogue where I could. By the mass ! lam doing

you a service, and yet you turn upon me as though

I hail planted a stiletto in your side."

I am distracted," cried Paul, with a bewildered

look ; " but 1 will go through the course I

have chosen. Would that Adeline would see mea

word from her of what you have averred,

would nerve my heart to steel."

You must first wake her from the dream into

which this villain has charmed her, crc you may

expect to get the truth from her," said Francis,

but never sear — when she finds he has been

taught the extent of his presumption, and his vows

to Agnes Flora are niadoknown to her, she will hate

where now she may love, and turn affectionately

to the hand which has chastised him. Nay,

think no more on't — let us have a stoup of wine

lo drown care", and in the morn wc will teach

Quinlin Matsys a lesson he will ne'er forget ;

that is, if he lives long enough to remember anything."



He dragged Paul away as he concluded, and

by fresh insinuations, artfully delivered, contrived

to keep the same animosity afloat which he had

felt when he first encountered our hero that day.

Quintain Matsys in the meanwhile hastened to

the spot where he had appointed to meet Frank

Merritt, and when he reached the well he perceived

horn leaning by its .side in a pensive attitude.

Quiutiu accosted horn crc he was aware of his

presence, aud then, shaking off the deep abstraction

iv which he had been buried, he exclaimed

Glad am Ito see thee, Quintain. I have been

much employed since last I saw thee, or our

meeting had been earlier ; natheless, I am glad

it should occur at any time."

Aud I," said Quintain, warmly. " Wilt thou

accompany me home ?" he enquired ; " thou shalt

have a warm welcome, I promise thee."

I doubt it not,' ' be replied " but thy homo is no

place for roe," he added, laying a stress on the

word " thy."

And why not mine?" asked Quintain, with

much surprise.

Because yet this is no place to discuss

such matter," he said, interrupting himself, " let

us enter the cathedral ; in one of the aisles wc

shall be unnoticed and undisturbed."

As you will," replied Quintain.

Frank Merritt led the way, closely followed by

our hero, and, aster traversing the extensive

space, entered a side aisle. No one was there,

and Frank, having ascertained such to be the fact,

stopped, aud said —

Wc shall here be free from interruption ; no

greedy and inquisitive ear will gather iv words

intended for thee alone. I have much to say to

thee, and as I would my communication be in all

respects unreserved — for wc may never meet

again — and as what I have to say embraces much

that I would have none but thee know, it is necessary

I should observe this secrecy and mystery."

I neither question nor object to thy wish,"

observed Quintain, in reply, " but I hope your

assertion respecting our not meeting again is

unfounded."

No," he returned, " with to-day ends all

further acquaintance "

Acquaintance," echoed Quiutin, something

reproachfully."

Friendship, if you will," exclaimed Frank,

with a melancholy smile, and at the same time

g-rasping his hand warmly, he added, " I have

stringent reasons for saying that it is not probable

that wo should meet again, and you shall know

them ; but, first, let me acquaint you with a brief

history of myself, that you may years hence,

when your hair is blanched by the fronting hand

of age, and I am gathered to the dust, remember

our brief connection with feelings of sympathy for

one who asked it not of the world, and yet courted

it from you — with satisfaction, too, that that sympathy

was not ill-bestowed. Quintain, though deprived

of thy father al an early age, thou hast

still known the blessing, the fostering care of a

doating mother — thou hast known the comforts

of a happy home, and shared its sweet pleasures

with the fond affections of a sister and a parent —

thou, if not reared by the hand of luxury, had yet

kind faces and a cheerful hearth ; each succeeding

day, from thy infancy, there were gentle

voices and tender words to speed thy wandering

from home and greet thy return, and this has

made thee what thou art — the want of it has made

me what I am. My father was the youngest son

of a proud noble — my mother, Heaven give grace

to her soul ! the daughter of a humble peasant,

but a free man ; but, Quintain, she equalled, aye,

excelled some of the proudest dames i' the land,

for she was all virtue, aud innocence, aud loveliness

; she had not a mantel of cloth of gold to deck

her shoulders, nor the coffers of a duchy to bring

as a wedding portion, but the gold and purple of

the richest dowered maiden could not have robed

and adorned a fairer soul, aud that, in the eye of

Heaven, is the true nobility. My father thought

so, but bis father did not — it is an old and a common

tale, Quintain ; the proud lords son was discarded

for loving and wedding one who was his

superior in all things save that which might

have added to the luxuries of life, but could not

command or increase its happiness. It is hard

for one who has been nursed in the lap of luxury,

and lived a life of idleness in the camp, to turn his

hand to the ploughshare ; my father found it so,

but complained not ; for his toil was endured for

my mother's sake. Had he been suffered to continue

his labor be might have mastered it, and by

perseverance and energy have risen to the possession

of lands which then he cultivated for others ;

but there is ever a class of people who court the

smiles of the powerful by helping to crush those

who have fallen beneath their frown. A set

of hungry expectants, knaves who snapped at

every crumb from the lords table — slaves who

would lay down their necks for horn to walk upon

these snarling, creeping, fawning hounds hunted

my father down. When fathers believe they have

cause to hate their children, it is usually a bitter,

fierce, unrelenting hate ; and the history of my

father's persecution and oppression gladdened the

heart of the old noble, who deemed his house disgraced

by his alliance with my mother. One man

had been most active in. dragging from my parents

every prospect of comfort or happiness — every desperate

effort of roy father's to place my mother beyond

the reach of misery was met and blasted by this

man, until beggary, want, starvation, stared my father

in the face. 1 was at this time a child, scarce

a year old, a weakly thing, in whose bosom life

flitted like the flame of an ill-fed lamp. My father

himself, worn to a shadow, saw with an agony

which may only be imagined, the wan, wan face

of my dear mother ; he saw her sunken eyes and

hollow checks each day increase in their deathly

aspect, and though from dawn to sunset he essayed,

with the efforts of desperation, to drive

away the cause, he essayed in vain ; and at this

time, feeble and strengthless, he encountered the

man who had with fiendish malice done so much

to reduce horn to the state in which he was placed.

With a smile of triumph be saw my father's miserable

condition ; he taunted horn with it, and my

father fastened on his throat with the reckless

frenzy of maddened agony. But what availed his

feebleness against the robust frame of his enemy ?

the villain wrested his neck from the grasp of his adversary,

and buried his knife to the haft in his heart.

With a single groan my father fell dead; the wild

shriek of my mother, who, by a strange fatality,

was near the spot, filled the air crc he reached

the earth. The murderer would have fled, but

three members of the Holy Tribunal had witnessed

the deed ; they were not able to prevent

it, for it had been sudden and speedy, but they

avenged my father by hanging his destroyer from

the branches of a tree, beneath whose shade the

body of my father, supported in the arms of his

distracted wife, rested. Thus the souls of the

murdered and the murderer winged their way to

heaven, to meet the award of the Great Tribunal

there, together. I was a tie to bind my mother

still to earth, and she lived — nay, starved on for

my sake. My father's death had made no change

in the heart of the noble towards my mother ; she

had to drag on a wretched existence as she might

no assistance did she obtain from him. How

shall I tell you what days of wretchedness wc

passed together— weeks which were as years. I

soon, though very young, began to comprehend

the words she addressed to me, and soon, too soon,

learned a history which I could never forget. The

thoughts and habits of an age far greater than

mine were impressed upon me, and at|six years

old I was what others are at twenty. In truth,

Quintain, I had no childhood ; it was but a spring

from infancy to manhood. Well, affection for me

had kept life in my mother's frame, long beyond

the time which constant want and privation would,

under other circumstances, have done; but nature

could hold out no longer, and she died. I knew

death was the happiest lot for her, and I grieved

not, nay, I rejoiced. I bent my little knee to God

and thanked horn for his goodness. What cared

I for what I should suffer? I knew that she

whom I adored beyond all earthly beings, was at

rest and happy, and I was grateful. One who had

been an early friend of my father's took me from

the wretched hovel which had been my home, and

placed roc beneath his roof; he was a lone man,

whom an early disappointment had soured. I

lived with horn a gloomy life ; I had no playmates ;

nay, I desired none ; I had been too long accustomed

to dwell within myself, to require the aid

of others to pass away the long dreary hours. I

had much to bear, for many times I was told that

the hand which gave me bread was not bound by

any other tie than inclination to feed me, and I was

bidden to never forget to be grateful for it. I had

a proud spirit, a very proud one, and such lectures

made me hate the bread I ate, and the necessity

which compelled me to receive it ; but I waited

only for an age and strength to battle with the

world, and a strong resolution, which no power

could have shaken, was iv my heart to wander

forth, and with my good right hand earn the pittance

doled out with such scanty generosity. That

time was fast approaching, when, perhaps, an evil

hour in my destiny brought me into the presence of

one young and lovely. In roy heart there was deep

well of affection, which had closed when my mother

died, but not dried up. Ah 1 no 1 it gushed

forth in a torrent when 1 heard her gentle voice

and saw her sweet smile ; she had kind and tender

words for one who had never before heard them

but from one being. I loved, Quintain, with that

love which has never been invaded by another — a

pure passion all engrossing. I won her love — and

my heart expanded under such entrancing influence.

Life, which I had hitherto deemed a curse,

now became a blessing, and I was happy ; but,

alas ! the happiness was brief. The lustful eye

of the Grand Duke Estevan lighted upon her and

she was doomed : she was tom from me, and borne

to his palace. There she was dishonored."

An exclamation of execration burst from the lips

of Quintain, and his hand instinctively grasped the

hilt of his sword with a vigor, which but too

plainly exhibited the extent of his feelings.

She did not survive the disgrace," continued

Frank, in a voice of deep emotion. " Ere she

was an hour older, the Rhine received her body,

and heaven her spirit. When I ascertained these

dreadful particulars, my old feelings returned tome

; I shut my heart against the world, and

swore to compass the death of the Duke. I nursed

every hope of revenge. 1 laid a thousand schemes

to accomplish my object, and all failed. I cost

about for fresh means ; 1 quitted horn who bad for

years been my protector, and with an energy, of

which, perhaps, sew minds would have been capable,

I obtained a living while I endeavored to bring

my one great object to bear. A circumstance, of

no moment in itself, brought the Holy Fehm-

gerichle before my notice ; I remembered how

my father's death had been avenged, aud instantly

determined upon becoming a member. I could

not tell how to contrive it, but my endeavors to

obtain my wish were incessant. I communicated

my desire to one who had done me some services,

he was a man of some knowledge, of singular manners,

but of much benevolence. He smiled darkly

when I conveyed to horn my wishes, but gave meno

information ou the matter, professing ignorance

on the subject ; but shortly afterwards, while ouan

errand which he had desired rae to perform,

in the dead of the night, I encountered at a

cross-road two chopped, who told me of my desire

and bade me, if I had strength of mid

enough to bear out my purpose, to accompany

them. I, who feared nothing but an inability to

destroy the author of my present misery, readily

gave the expected answer. I was blindfolded, and

carried I knew not whither, until I appeared before

the Holy Tribunal. I then went through such

ceremonies as might have daunted the stoutest

heart and strongest nerve, but they had no effect

upon me, for I feared only being rejected as

incompetent to be a member. I passed through

the ordeal triumphantly, and performed my duties

as a chopped so well that I became a fehmenole

long before the usual time. I was soon the leader

of all the fehmenoles, and earned the title which

makes all Germany tremble to hear, and obtained

for my district the name of the Red Land, and

me the Rkd Hand. Yet, Quintain, though that

shudder runs through your frame as you hear me

make the acknowledgement, no act of injustice

has been committed by me, nor has any one been

doomed to death, or perished, but who has richly

deserved it. The blood of no innocent person rests

upon my hand, and those who have fallen it was

but fulfilling the award of heaven and doing a

service to ray fellowmen to send to their account

with their Maker. As soon .as I had the power,

I commenced my efforts to effect my revenge on

the Grand Duke Estevan ; it was necessary, on

account of his high station, for sour chopped or

three fermented to see horn in the commission of

some crime crc summary vengeance could be

inflicted upon horn, and though many were the

crimes which were sufficient according to the law

of onr Holy Tribunal, to send horn to eternity, yet

wc were unable to catch horn in the fact, or establish

evidence against horn which would have been

held sufficient to have convicted and punished

him. I had opportunities of gaining access to

horn, aud would have slain horn, but, in compliance

with the oath administered to me by the Holy

Tribunal, I dared not destroy one of his rank

when alone. I, however, made horn expect and

sear death — 1 hung upon his heart the horror of

sudden aud unexpected slaughter. He was naturally

fearful of death, and his life became

a hell of consent — a greater revenge to me

than if I had punished horn with summary

vengeance. I saw horn daily waste away — I saw

his rolling eyes, as they turned ever and anon and

gazed anxiously round any strange place iv which

circumstance; might have placed him. 1 saw the

quivering anxiety of his lip as he enquired its

sanctity from intruders, aud its security. I gloated

over the terrors with which he was haunted, for I

knew he had no rest, night nor day, save a few

hours feverish sleep dragged from his cares by

exhausted nature. I triumphed in this — I rejoiced,

for he bad robbed me of happiness for ever ; he

had rendered me an outcast from the world, the

minion of a tremendous power, who could not

taste one social comfort while in its service or beneath

its influence. I never lest him. llc bad

not the courage to be virtuous ; be persisted still

in his career of crime, and he fell beneath it. He

was at length captured in the commission of an

act of villany, and, in his solitary dungeon of the

Pfalz, I stood by his side and communicated to

horn his fate, and my participation in it His

wicked and enfeebled mid had not the power of

looking his position firmly in the face, and in a

paroxysm of frightful failings, shrieks and frenzied

exclamations of the most intense terror, he

was seized with convulsions, and expired. I

shouted her name in his ear as the last breath left

his frame, and spurned his body with my foot as

I cried to the spirit of my wronged love—

Blanche I thou art avenged !"

Blanche !" echoed Quintain, with surprise.

Aye, even the name of thy fair sister," replied

Frank, combating the emotion which the recital

and remembrance necessarily produced in horn ;

and now," he added, " shalt thou know why I

ever mentioned her name when opportunity

served, and why my heart clung to thee so soon

after wc met. It had been my purpose to have

recounted to thee the strange wild scenes I have

passed through, and how 1 have passed through

them — how I have stood in the midst of fire and

sword, of blood and slaughter, of sanguinary

feuds, desperate defences against powerful and

oppressive assaults, and how I have been the

spectator of happiness, calm, placid, and heavenly,

which I could have prayed to have shared — but

let them go, the motive has passed away. When,

perhaps, silver locks take the place of this dark

hair, 1 should find it necessary to join you, that 1

may peacefully end my days, you shall know what

I deem it useless now to recount — nay, interrupt

me not ; I see by your eager and kind looks that

you would grant me an asylum, but at present thy

home is no home for me, nor is there any. I

quit you now, perhaps, for ever — and I quit with

you all thoughts, all hopes, of home and friend."

Nay, say not so," said Quintain. " Why not

reside here in Antwerp ? I would do my best to

act the part of a friend, and place in your possession

those comforts and pleasures which it maybe

yet yours to enjoy."

It may not be," returned Frank Merritt.

My fate is fixed ; the unhappiness of the parents

cling to their offspring, and 1 must await my hour

to join them with the stern steadfastness in my

own heart which has hitherto enabled me to work

out the end I bad sworn to accomplish. — But to

return to the question respecting thy sister. The

name of the maiden I so loved, and from whom

fate so cruelly sundered me, was named Blanche,

and spotless was she, in soul as in name. On the

night I first sought you, thy sister gave me admittance

; 1 was struck by her beauty ; it came

upon my heart as a sudden calm upon angry and

troubled waters, and even while speaking with

thee her face seemed smiling upon mc. Much

rough jo.-tlmg with the world had made my morality

rather a custom than an innate feeling, and 1

had some thought, which close contact with one

whose hand was unsparing where his passions

were concerned had fostered ; it was a base one,

but when it again recurred to my memory it

brought its own vengeance with it, with the sharp

agony of a dagger iv my heart. I remembered

that her features bore an extraordinary resemblance

to the Blanche whom 1 had for ever lost ;

she bore, too, her name. I bowed my head in

shame to the dust, and acknowledged the crime

against her memory by performing a rigorous penance

; but, from that hour, the seeling of love

which I had borne for her whose spirit was fled,

was renewed in my soul for thy sister — '

Quintain started, and turned his head away.

Thou need'st not turn from me — the love I

bore her was pure and honorable, I swear by the

soul of her who hath lest me here alone."

I doubt it not," replied Quintain mournfully,

but my sister is "

I know all," he interrupted ; " she is another."

lie sighed heavily, and added, " I do not

complain — happiness is not for me on earth. I

do not deny that bright visions have risen up before

me — I will not deny that I have indulged in

some hopes that, as the resemblance had been

so great in features and name, the heart, too,

I

THB EXPLANATION AT Wanderer's DWELLING.

might be mine ; but it was a fallacious hope — it

was, perhaps, a punishment upon rae for entertaining

a base thought. I soon saw that her heart

was given to another crc wc had met, and little

would it have become me to cast away one base

thought that I might entertain another ; I sought

not to transplant the youth who loves her, even

though my own gain would have been so great.

I never gave her any cause to know how much my

heart was interested by her ; she, therefore, could

feel no pain at that which was unavoidable. I

hope, 1 pray, for her happiness, but I dare not

trust myself in her presence; for thoughts would

arise which would bring the past but too vividly

before me, and the absence of all hope in the future

would add to the poignancy of the remembrance.

No, Quintain, thy home is no place forme

— tiny career is marked out ; lam an isolated

man, doomed to perform a certain task, and when

that task is fulfilled to lay me down and die — tho

Great Spirit alone knows where. It may be in

the haunts of men, it may be where no eye but

heaven's may look on ; but, let it come when and

where it may, it will not find me unprepared, or

without a blessing on my lips for one who seems

to be the reanimated form of lor my spirit placed

its very existence upon. And now a word to thee,

Quiutin, crc wc part. There is little connected

with thee with which lam unacquainted ; lam

aware of thy love — of thy effort to comply with

the demand of Michael Flors crc thou canst claim

his daughter ; lam aware that he is estranged

from thee, whom he ought most to honor. But

judge horn not too harshly, Quintain ; wc are all,

more or less, the slaves of our pride ; wc are most

selfish when wc fancy it invaded — less mindful of

gratitude for kindness done to us when pride is

infringed, than a host of other circumstances combined

could make us. This Francis Floris has

worked upon his pride, and that, for the present,

successfully ; but it will only be for a time, and a

brief one, too. Thou hast chosen the very path

the clearest judgment could have pointed out ; a

loud defiance and a brandished sword, though it

makes a commotion, does not ensure conviction.

Proceed in the course you have taken, and you

will defeat horn with his own weapons, cover horn

with obloquy, and compel horn to a shameful retreat.

Adeline Vanderneer, however she esteems

you, loves you not — "

I know it — I am happy, very happy to say I

know it," cried Quintain, eagerly.

"Well," smiled Frank, " thy vanity said little

there. It is well thou dost knowest, for her father

and Michael Flors have striven hard to make thee

think otherwise. She will, however, acquit time

to horn of any dishonorable conduct, and little is

needed to restore thee to her father's favor.

Michael Flors, too, when he discovers thou constraint

as well as his cousin, will open his heart and

give thee his daughter — of that lam sure. He

loves thee, and Agnes loves thee too ; her influence

with horn is, in truth, sufficient to remove

the net spread o'er his heart by Francis Floris.

Fervently 1 hope thou may'st be happy ; but be

firm — suffer no knavish trick or taunt to drive

thee from thy position."

But I already stand committed," said Quintain,

and then related the scene which had occurred

between horn and Paul Breitstein. Frank mused

for a minute, and then observed —

You must meet him. Not to do so were to

unsafely compromise thine honor, but thou wilt

be cool and he impetuous. Keep thou a steadfast

eye, and a steady hand, and a firm soot ; let horn

lunge his best ; disarm horn, and read horn a lecture

— the youth is generous, and will receive and

profit by it."

You underrate his knowledge of the sword,"

said Quintain, smiling. " I have seen horn do battle,

and that gallantly."

I too have seen horn," observed Frank, " and

gainsay not my opinion ; he has, like Vanderneer

aud Flors, been worked upon by the cunning-florins,

but he will gnaw his knuckles for very

shame, when he finds how much he has been deceived.

Thou wilt end the combat as 1 have stated,

but though thou dost give horn back his weapon

with a homily, do not acquaint horn with the falsehood

of the belief he labors under, until thou dost

wish Flors to know thy exact position, for the extravagance

of his joy on finding the maiden of his

heart unopposed)' his, will go far to make all

Antwerp ring with it. That matter reaching the

ears of Flors, he will not be long crc he finds out

thy new employment, and will insist upon seeing

the progress you have made ; you will comply,

and first impressions in a point of this nature is

everything. If he should he disappointed in what.

he sees, the prejudice he will immediately imbibe

will hang like a clog upon his judgment, and prevent

horn ever after yielding the meed of praise

which your merit may deserve. In any situation

you wil have a very difficult part to play, but be

firm, think rightly, act determinedly, and you will

pass through the fire with your honor brightened

by the ordeal."

** I will do my best to profit by your advice,"

said Quintain, " but of this I can assure you — let

the result be what it may, I will preserve my

honor sacred ; from this point no personal sacrifice

can, or shall turn mc."

Little need is there for such an affirmation,"

observed Frank Merritt. " I know thy heart and

thy principles, and would hang my faith and life

on thy honor, nor fear the result. But time wears

apace, and I have still duties to perform which are

imperative. Wc must part, Quintain, and for ever.

I feel in my heart that I would this were not to

be, for roy soul clings to thee with a tenacity I

had thought it could not have born forgiving man.

It may be, that thy sister's features beaming

through thine, carrying me back to the fair sweet

face of her who perished, hath moved this affection

for thee in my soul ; still, let the spring be

what it will, I have that leaning to thee which I

never had for man breathing, and may not again."

Your kind thoughts of me are not thrown

upon a soil which will yield you no return," exclaimed

Quintain, speaking with deep feeling, " I

have received tokens of the estimation in which

you hold me, too undoubted to misapprehend —

I should be a niggard in spirit if they made not

the proper impression upon mc. I possess a foolish

inability to express my feelings with the

warmth and sincerity which I could wish, but let

me prevail upon you to change your determination.

Quit the service of the fearful Tribunal with

which you are so intimately connected, and reside

here in Antwerp, giving to me the opportunity of

proving how highly I estimate the generous acts

you have performed in my behalf."

My feelings for thee, Quintain, are independent

of any appreciation of those trifling acts of service

which I have been enabled to perform," said

Frank, "and which might have been conferred

upon one indifferent to me, without even any expectation

by me of thanks or a warmer acknowledgment.

Think no more of them — the die is

cast, and wc must bid each other that farewell

which, were wc to reside near to each other for

years, must one day come. Ere wc part, let me

give you one caution, which you must on no account

disobey. You spoke but now of the Holy

Tribunal : let its name never escape you ; to speak

lightly of it is a crime which its members punish

with the sternest severity, and you can never know

when you are unattended by them. Remember

this, Quintain, and treatment their name, even when

you believe yourself alone. I will, however, go sofar,

as to tell you that I shall probably change my

course of life, the great object for which 1 pursued

it having been attained, but if I should, I must

wear out life in another land, and that land will be

England. I once encountered one of the generous

natives of that country — his plain honesty,

his free disposition, and brave spirit, pleased

mc. It is his name I have adopted in disguise —

the name by which you know me ; my real name

is Faust Sehiinbom ; Faust of the red hand, the

terror of the red land, as the natives of Westphalia

term me, but soon to be so no longer — to

be a being spoken of as the past, for the spirit

which prompted me to deeds that have earned me

so formidable a title is fled, and animated by no

feelings of revenge or hate, the execution of justice

would become a task revolting to my feelings.

I may not dwell in Westphalia, or any lands akin,

knowing what I know, without serving the Holy

Fehm-gerichte as I have hitherto done ; and to

no land but the free land of England, the home

of the generous and brave, do my eyes, influenced

by my nature, turn with longing gaze. To England,

therefore, shall I direct my steps if I am

enabled to quit this land. To Frank Merritt will

I resign the name which I proudly feel I have not

dishonored, and lay my bones among those who

freely give asylum to those of another land whose

honor may be unimpeached, but whom circumstances

may have caused to seck their hospitable

shores. Farewell, Quintain, I have but one matter

more to speak upon — that is, to ask one favor of

you ; it is the last you may have it in your power

to grant, or I to ask."

Name it," cried Quintain, eagerly.

Frank, describing the situation of the hostel

where he had made the fair Lina a present of a

dowry which was sufficient to enable her to wed

her lover Carl, added —

Von shall have notice when Germany is no

longer my dwelling place ; then when thou hast

leisure, thou wilt journey to the spot I have named.

You will find the tenants of the hostel to be an

old man, his daughter, and her husband ; that

daughter is allied by ties of affinity to Blanche,

and I have sworn to protect her while I live.

Should she require gold you shall have it to supply

her with, and should she be unhappy, either

by the treatment of her father or husband, you

will proceed to such peremptory measures as may

compass her happiness ; if you find her well and

happy, as I expect and hope, you will then forward

a communication to me where I shall direct,

and make me acquainted with all you can learn

respecting her. She is a gentle and a good girl,

and deserves the happiness which, if it be in my

power to grant it, she shall enjoy. You will yield

me this favor ?"

Will I not," cried Quintain, enthusiastically.

She shall be happy if any interference or measures

of mine can ensure it."

"I lank you from my soul," exclaimed Frank.

And now, farewell. To you, Quintain, I have

but little to say. I would that fate had not

marked me out for one who must live and die alone

but no more of this. Keep me in your memory,

and if some of my faults and errors mingle with

your remembrance of rae, think, at least, that to

you I was true."

Quintain wrung his hand, but his heart was

too full to speak. " For your fair sister," continued

Frank, the slightest perceptible quiver distinguishable

iuthe tone of his voice, you will commend

me to her. Ask her to give me one thought occasionally

— I ask for no thought which could do

her sense of virtue wrong, but such fleeting remembrance

as she might bestow on some old and early

friend who was far away, and whom she might never

behold more. Ah! Quintain, if I thought she

would do this, how many a lonely hour would it

cheer ; for what hour could I select to say to my

heart, no being living has a kind thought for me —

no human eye looks upon my desolation with sympathy

— no human hand is stretched forward to

greet mine with the warmth of unalloyed friendship."



Quintain pressed his hand convulsively, and said,

with a full heart —

Shall I accompany thee to England ?"

The tears gushed into Franks eyes at this spontaneous

burst of generosity, he pressed his hand,

and turned away to hide the water which blinded

him. In a moment he dashed the tears hastily away

and said, in a firmer voice —

You have brought to ray eyes the moisture

which has never visited them since the

first moment of mad agony and frenzy when I

learned the dishonor and death of her who was

my souls spirit. This is perhaps the last time

I may endure its presence, but never shall my memory

suffer to fade the generous impulse which

brought it there. I have been unusually weak to

speak as I have done, but there are times when the

sternest heart will be like a child's ; ibis hour have

1 found it so — 'tis time it resumed its wonted firmness.

Farewell, Quintain. Our friendship has

been short and singular, but it has been staunch

and sincere, and I shall look bncktoitwith feelings

of pleasure — theonlyseelitigs of gratification I may

hereafter know. I have lived alone, and shall live

alone, but while in Germany, though you may not

see me, I shall still watch over you, and the hand

which seeks your destruction shall be crippled crit

reaches you. God guard and keep you. Endeavor

not to discover whither 1 go until you hear

from rue, nor look now upon my retreating steps.

Farewell — farewell, for ever 1"

With a hard squeeze of the hand Frank hurried

away. He had spoken the last few sentences so

rapidly, that Quintain had scarcely time to apprehend

them, much less reply ; and he was gone before

he could utter the word farewell. He obeyed the

injunction which he received, not to gaze afterward;

and then full of thought, and with depressed spirit,

he turned his steps homeward. He gave one glance

round crc he quitted the cathedral, but Frank Merritt

was no where visible — he was gone for ever.

CHAP. XXXIV.

Francis Floris had now arrived at the highest

point of his scheme — it was the turn which was to

indicate his success or defeat. He had successfully

poisoned the minds'of Vanderneer, and what

was of more importance, Flors, against his rival ;

aud he had worked up a hostile meeting between

Paul Breitstein and our hero, the fall of either of

whom he calculated would turn to his advantage.

He was aware that both bore the reputation of

being good swordsmen, and both, he had no doubt,

were brave men. He believed that neither would

willingly yield to the other, and concluded the

death of one, perhaps both, would be the result.

Should Quintain fall, and he resolved if possible

to give any little aid that would tend to ensure it,

he should be effectually rid of a rival — so effectually,

as to save horn some further scheming. If,

on tho contrary, Paul should be killed, he trusted

the odium which should fall upon Quintain (he,

Francis, giving his version of the proceedings in

the duel) would compel horn to quit Antwerp, and

leave the coast clear to him. W 7 whatever the issue,

he determined it should turn to his account. He

had a difficult garnet to play, and he knew it. There

was in Paul Breitstein, despite his bitterness of

feeling, a great faith existing in Quintain's honor,

which he could not break down ; even after the

angry meeting between them, Paul several times

expressed a doubt whether he had not too readily

suspected the honor of our hero, nothing having

been actually proved, and required many taunts

from Francis before he could work himself into the

frame of mid necessary to fight the duel with the

steadiness of purpose, and consciousness of the rectitude

of his own conduct, essential to its victorious

termination. Quintain was very differently employed

; his parting with Frank Merritt had caused

a heaviness of heart which tinted everything with

a melancholy aspect. He could not reflect on the

lonely position of a man who possessed so many of

the best attributes of human nature, without feeling

the deepest commiseration for his condition,

and regret at the circumstances which caused it.

He sought his own home and retired to his study,

and there labored at his painting until long after

midnight. An hour or so snatched from his employment

he devoted to rest, but started from his

slumber crc the grey dawn appeared. Almost for

the first time he remembered his hostile appointment;

it was too lute to arouse Caspar Hauser

without making others in the house acquainted with

their departure, and raising questions he might

have found it more that difficult to answer satisfactorily,

without awakening suspicions he was but

too anxious should remain dormant. He therefore

girded on his sword, threw bis mantle round horn,

and hastened alone to the spot appointed for the

encounter. His natural swiftness of foot soon

brought horn to the place, but his antagonist was

not there, nor even in sight ; he therefore employed

himself in watching the .various effects of the atmosphere

which the rising of the sun produced,

and noted every tint aud change as carefully and

comparatively as though he had come there for the

purpose of receiving a lesson from nature instead

of taking part in a deadly encounter, and standing,

as it were on the verge of eternity. I low eagerly

he observed the changing of the lints, the cold

greys merging into the warmer purple hues, until

the swift approaching light gave each object its

natural color. The properties of light and color in

connexion with bis art, never till that moment

struck horn, and now they made a forcible impression

upon horn ; and lost in deep and studious contemplation,

he observed not the approach of his antagonist

and a companion, until their voices and

hurrying footsteps broke so loudly upon his ear as

to arouse horn from his reverie, if such it might be

called. The calm placidity of his bearing contrasted

strangely with the slashed and heated appearance

of Paul, whose brow was red and teeming with

drops of perspiration, and whose dress bore evident

marks of hasty donning. His companion was

Francis Floris, who though now flushed with rapid

exercise, still wore a cooler and a calmer air

than his principal.

I much regret having kept you waiting forme,"

exclaimed Paul, with earnestness, as though

he feared a slur would be cast by Quintain on his

courage, " but some restlessness," he added, " last

night, on retiring to rest, made me, when I did

sleep, slumber longer than I expected or wished —

no other cause or motive has detained mc."

I do not doubt it," said Quintain, frankly.

You are alone," observed Francis Floris, looking

round horn with some surprise at not seeing a

friend with Quiutin. Paul echoed the remark,

and Quintain, taking no notice of Francis, repbed —

"It was not convenient to bring one upon so

short a notice, but it matters not ; I can trust in

your honor, though you impeach mine."

Paul felt the reproof and bit his lip. Francis

whispered something in his ear, but Paul put horn

aside rather cavalierly, and doffed his cloak and

cap, following the example of Quintiu, who had

already performed that operation. Both then

drew their swords and measured llicui ; Paul

was something of the longest and he offered it

to our hero, who declined it, and then, having

performed the usual courtesies, they commenced.

Both ii It their honor at stake, and

both fought with a determination to maintain

it. Quintain remembered the injunction of Frank

Merritt, and contested the issue with a calm steadiness

which his opponent could not break through

or ma iter. Quintiu fought only on the defensive,

and the practised eye of Francis quickly perceived

the superiority of his workmanship over his antagonist

; he therefore endeavored by a variety of

remarks and gestures, which he had no right, as a

man and a cavalier, to make, in order to taunt one

or the other into a more wild and furious style of

combat, that the point he desired might come to

pass. It had only the effect of making Paul lower

the point of bis sword, which Quintain paid respect

to, and peremptorily order horn to remove so far

from the immediate place of action that neither

his words nor movements could affect or influence

either party. With a remark teeming with bitter

sarcasm he obeyed, and the fight was renewed.

The taunt of Francis, however, bad its effect, for

Paul began to lose his temper ; his lunges became

more rapid, and were not made with the precision

he had before displayed ; aud as he found himself

foiled at every turn without receiving one thrust

in return, he cried angrily —

You treat me like a child !"

.Aye, a froward one," retorted Quintain.

Paul, enraged at the reply, now dashed at Quintain,

and by assuming a more violent mode of attack

hoped to throw horn from the defensive line he had

pursued into one of attack ; and, while iv the height

of following up this plan, he felt his sword whirl

from his grasp. He saw it fly through the air and

fall at some distance from him. He was at Quin-tin's

mercy, who however took no advantage of it,

but turned to where the sword had fallen. He saw

Francis Floris stoop and pick it up. His brow

lowered, and he hastened toward him. With an

air of authority he demanded it from horn, which

Francis, knowing he could not, without compromising

his honor, withhold, complied with. Quintain

took it from horn without vouchsafing horn another

word, aud, advancing to Paul, he said to horn , ashe

tendered the unstained blade —

"Take thy sword, Paul, and now I have vindicated

my honor, tell me in what manner I have

acted to thee that thou should'st treatise with such

grievous insult cro thou didst first challenge me

with the injury done you by roc, which the base

calumniations of another have made you believe

me guilty of?"

Paul turned his head away, and declined his

sword. Francis Flotia drew near to hear the colloquy,

and offered a remark which conveyed a

hint to Paul to take his sword and renew the contest

; but he was unheeded by both, and bit his

lips with mortification.

Take thy sword," urged Quintain, " aud give

me an answer. Have I, since chance made us acquainted,

acted in any way that should induce thee

to doubt my honor ?

Paul, whose countenance displayed how humbled

and mortified he set, took his sword, and

murmured in a low tone the monosyllable, " No."

Tell me, then, I pray thee," said Quintain,

why didst thou not, possessing honorable feelings,

when thou didst hear aught to my prejudice,

at once come to me and say, ' Thus didst thou,

aud I demand of thee to justify thyself'"

Because I suffered myself to be ill-advised,"

replied Paul, attempting to recover his natural

frankness ; " and now let me ask thy pardon for

my conduct in acting towards thee as though the

charge brought against thee were proved to be

true ; and, having done so, I beg of thee to answer

me whether you love, or have made professions

of love to Adeline Vanderneer, whom I have

loved from childhood, and whether, at the same

time, you have been endeavoring to wm the affections

of Agnes Flors ?"

Quintiu smiled contemptuously.

The artifice is shallow, he murmured, " and

yet it hath so far succeeded." Then raising his

voice he exclaimed, " Paul, you have been easily

duped. I will not reply to thee now, but meet

me at the house of the burgomaster Vanderneer

when you may please to appoint, and there I will

truly and honorably answer this matter to thee —

and, mark me, to thy satisfaction."

Why not give the explanation now ?" suggested

Francis Floris.

Quintain made no reply, and Paul, half hesitating,

repeated Floris' observation. Quintiu, with

a haughty tone, said —

Look you, Paul Breitstein — I shall begin to

think there is some mildew spot upon thine honor

an' thou dost mistrust me thus. I tell thee, man,

thou shalt have the explanation, and that before

those parties who are most concerned, and can

best vouch for the truth of my statement. Thy

judgment must be strangely wandering, or greatly

under the control of others, to require an unsupported

assertion now, when thou canst, have it attested

by those who alone can satisfy thee of the

truth or falsehood of my statement."

I rest content," said Paul, convinced by his

reasoning; "but one thing I would have thee

answer mo truly, by your soul. Was Adeline

Vanderneer with thee in the boat when 1 saw thee

seated with a female by thy side ?"

No," replied Quintain. " I swear solemnly

by my honor, which I have never blemished, that

not only was Adeline not in the boat with me,

but that never at any time, or under any circumstances,

was she in one with me, or at any place

by appointment or assignation. I have already

told you this, and now 1 swear its truth as I hope

for mercy hereafter !"

Who was it that was seated with thee ?"

asked Paul, incredulously.

Now by my soul, Paul," cried Quintain, angrily,

"you tax my patience too far. Dost thou

think I am, to satisfy thy unworthy suspicions, to

lay before thee my every act? Shame ou thee !

I had thought more generously of thee.' 1

Paul felt how much he had committed himself, he

set lowered in his own eyes by that question which

had brought such a bitter reproof upon him. He

was about to tender au apology when Francis broke

the momentary pause by saying, with a sneer —

H Thy honor and asseveration may be very welland

enviable, but unless wc knew who wus with

thee, how are wc to judge rightly that Adeline was

not ?"

Quintain's eyes flashed fire ; he walked up to Francis,

and looked into his eyes \vith au expression that

made the other give ground—

Wc," he exclaimed with withering contempt.

"Wc ! Dost thou couple thyself with this misled

youth? Look you," he added, sternly, " I owe

thee no explanation, but when next 1 speak to thee

thou shalt not treat it lightly nor easily efface it

from thy memory."

He turned from horn as he concluded and said —

I repeat, to thee, Paul Breitstein, 1 will meet

thee at Vanderneer's dwelling; There'll thy doubts

shall be cleared. Bo thou name thy time, and I

will be there.

This day at twelve," said Paul eagerly ; " 1

will to Vanderneer and acquaint horn with your

intention."

I will not fail to meet you," responded Quint in.

Nor 1 ;" exclaimed Francis Floris.

Thou," said Paul Breitstein, " why thou ?"

Because this matter concerns me as deeply

as thee," he replied ; and then addressing Quin-tin,

added, " think not thy mouthed words or big

looks move me to any other feeling than one of

contempt ; it suits mo not to reply to thee with

my sword, or 1 would chastise thy impertinence on

the spot."

A better man than thee would find that a

hard task," cried Quintain fiercely ; and then

checking himself, he added coldly, " and thou wilt

yet have to attempt it mile-.- thy courage, taking

pattern by thy honor, shews a face so small as to

be invisible."

Francis bit his lip till the blood flowed into his

mouth, but it suited horn no more than it did

Quintain to measure swords ; he, therefore, curbing

his ire with a desperate effort, said —

That will yet be proved, and when the hour

comes, the accidental loss of a sword will not so

easily satisfy roe respecting thy honor or — "

Wc are not boys to mouth out what wc will

do when the time comes," interrupted Quintain,

with a cutting sneer which made Francis writhe

again : " let us bide the time, and our deeds will

prove us and save our tongues." He turned to

Paul and said, " For the present I believe our

conference is ended ; wc shall meet again at

twelve."

Paul bowed affirmatively, and Quintain sheathed

his sword, threw his cloak over his shoulders,

donned his cap, and bowing to violate antagonist,

which was returned, he quitted the field, leaving

Francis Floris raging inwardly at his triumph,

and finding it a harder task than ever to pour into

Paul's ear the " leprous distilled."

Precisely at the hour of twelve, Quintain stood

before the door of the burgomaster Vanderneer.

Paul had anticipated horn, but he had met with

unexpected intelligence which had struck horn like

a thunderbolt. It seemed that the burgomaster,

moved by his daughter's evident illness, for she

complained not, but had become very thin and

pale, and was frequently caught in tears, had left

his residence that morning, accompanied by her

and her mother for some village or town on the

banks of the Rhine ; but where, the servants

either could not, or would not give any information.

The burgomaster hoped by change of

scene to obliterate the effectwhicb, as he supposed,

her knowledge of the perfidy of Quintain had

occasioned ; but as he had utterly misapprehended

the real state of the case, the scheme had not the

desired effect. However, to return to those who

had expected a far different termination to their

appointment. Paul looked quite aghast, and

Francis Floris suggested that our hero probably

was acquainted with the purposed departure, and

therefore had been ready to declare his willingness

to give an explanation before those whom he

knew to be miles away ; but as Paul knew the

time of the appointment had originated with horn,

and as the servants professed their ignorance of

the return of the burgomaster, whether it would

be next day or next month, the suggestion lost its

effect. Quintiu said little, but simply adhered

to his original intention of making no explanation

but in the presence of Adeline and her father

; he expressed his readiness as soon as the

burgomaster returned to come forward, but reis



INTERVIEW BETWEEN Quintain MATSYS, Adolf, HIS BRIDE META, AND THE BARON HAINAULT.

fused to utter another word until then, and so

quitted them.

Francis Floris considered this occurrence most

fortunate for horn, as indeed it was, for it gave horn

a longer period of time before his assertions could

be thoroughly impeached, and he determined to

take every advantage of it.

He endeavored to maintain his hold over Paul

by artful hints and unprincipled assertions, but he

was too much bewildered and overcome by the unexpected

absence of Adeline to hear of anything,

or think of anything, but that. He broke from

Francis with an impatient exclamation, and set

about endeavoring to discover what path the burgomaster

had taken, that he might follow horn and

his precious charge. Francis let horn go, and returned

to his home in high spirits, for Fortune

seemed by this little incident to declare for him.

He felt in the mood to finish the picture which he

had promised Flors to see, and which was to surpass

all his former efforts. He set to work, and

found he had not mistaken his mood ; he was very

happy in all he did, and as the painting only required

the finishing touches, he went over it with

a masterly touch that astonished himself. He

finished it at night-fall, and in the morning, though

it was scarcely dry, he hurried with it to Michael

Flors. When he displayed it, the old man was

in raptures ; he placed it in the best light, and

conned over it with the greatest pleasure for an

hour ; he found parts, upon inspection, which

might have been better, and he was not exactly

pleased with the conception, but the handling, the

arrangement of the light and shade, and the finish,

delighted him. He repeatedly shook Floris

by the hand, and at length summoned Agnes to

partake of the pleasure in gazing upon it. She

came, but on seeing her cousin her brow sell ;

her eye caught the painting, displayed to the best

advantage, and she turned very pale. Her father

noted not the change, though Floris did, and a

bitter pang shot through his frame. He could

we'd interpret the cause of that change.

Come hither, Agnes, ray love," said Flors,

taking her by the hand ; " let me both astonish and

delight you. There ! Look upon yon painting —

is it not superb ? There's color ! there's management

! Look at the delicacy of those lights — -

look at the rich clearness of this shadow — look at

the design of that drapery adorning the figure in

the foreground, how beautifully it falls and how

clearly it is painted — that flesh is absolutely

transparent ; do you not think it marvellous ?"

Agnes at first, averted her eyes, but her father's

enthusiasm caused her to gaze upon it. At the

first glance "it struck her as being admirably

painted, but a second made her heart beat, for

she remembered the work of Quintain ; and,

though his time had been so short, she saw he

was not so very far behind as to render his efforts

hopeless. Besides, she liked the design and

vigorous drawing of Quintain's picture better ; it

was, in her opinion, more masterly, and she was

no mean judge. She had much natural talent,

could herself draw well — for it had been her father's

delight to teach her — and the constant sight

of paintings, as well as being present while her

father painted all his best pictures and hearing

his disquisitions on the art, rendered her capable

of forming a correct opinion of the merits of a

picture. She had seen many of her father's productions

which had pleased her more ; she had

seen some of the' works of other artists more highly

finished, and, added to this, there was a prejudice

against the painter which was carried to his works,

and which, perhaps, the most liberal minded being,

under the same influences, would not have been

able to discard. Her father, but too delighted to

witness the attention which she gave the picture,

rubbed his hands with ecstacy ; he descanted

still further upon the merits of the picture, and

once more, in a tone of excited enthusiasm, said —

Is it not superb —is it not marvellous ?"

I have seen better," was the cold, calm, quiet

reply.

The astonishment of Flors was almost ludicrous

— it took his breath away ;it was like being

hurled from the regions of sunshine into those

of eternal snow; he literally gasped; while Francis,

who had so eagerly awaited her reply, turned

away to conceal the bitter mortification which her

remark had given him. She saw the effect of her

observation, and heightened it by enumerating all

the pictures which she could remember as having

better or equal claims upon approbation. She

had a good memory, and realized rather a long

string. She completed her " counter-blast " by

saying—

Each of these are, in my poor estimation, better

in all respects than this picture ; and where

there are so many existing excelling it, I cannot

see what there is in this production which should

be termed marvellous."

She was suffered to conclude her speech before

her father interfered ; he was so completely astounded

that he could not utter a word; but when

she was about to leave the room at the conclusion

of her remarks, he caught her by the hand, and

exclaimed, in a voice where anger had the predominance

—

■ Stay, Agnes ; your remarks upon this picture

are not the result of your honest judgment — you

wrongly permit an improper influence to prejudice

your mid against the production of one for whom

you ought — and must entertain a far different

opinion. You have now uttered observations

which, from your lip, grate harshly upon my ear,

for they render you guilty of an inconsiderate

rudeness of which I could not think you capable ;

however, it seems that a determination of opposition

to another's will — and that other a father —

has had the effect of changing the gentlest nature

into one which requires but little addition to make

its possession anything but desirable. However,

if it can make such a change in you, it is not to be

supposed that it will have no effect upon me, whose

character is sterner and harsher than thine. You

shall be witness that your 'haviourhath not forced

itself upon me and been beheld unmoved. No

time can be better than the present to tell you

my determination, and to enforce upon you the

unchangeable nature of my resolve. This is not

the first time I have told you I cannot live for ever,

and, in the course of nature, must pass away

many years before you. I hold it my duty, natheless,

my love, to see you removed from all chance

of care or misfortune crc I depart this life, and I

have as I believe taken the best steps to accomplish

that task. All men — fathers, with such

feelings as mine, at least — when they have been

lest with such a child as thou, cherish fondly some

wish, some hope of making that child's station, if

not exactly a proud one, at least an enviable and a

happy one ; and would feel the same bitter disappointment

that I now suffer should that child persevere

in following a path which would destroy all

the fond hopes which for many years he has entertained.

He believes, and, I hold it, justly, that

having for years tended the child, ministered to

its wants and comforts, removed any source of

pain, sacrificed individual enjoyment to perhaps

watch by its sick couch, devote every hour to it.

either in his thoughts or actual attendance upon it

he, I say, believes he has more than a common

title in interfering in its future disposal — he believes

in his right to continue his fostering care

until his child is another's, and then, and then only,

cease its guardianship and guidance, but not the

affection with which for so many years he has regarded

it. This, Agnes an opinion of mine which

nor you, nor any one, can adduce no argument

sufficiently strong to shake, and therefore 1 consider

that I have a right to dispose of you to whom

I wish. I will not speak of the goodness of my

title, for thou knowest thou hastnothada thought

or desire I have not gratified until now. Your

happiness, I consider, is as much now in my keeping

as it has ever been ; and as I am but too certain

that I am ministering only to your happiness

in giving you to one who will cherish you, even

as I have done, I will both insist upon my right,

and enforce it. Agnes, there stands your future

husband, Francis Floris ; he is such a painter as

well meets the vow I have made, his connexions

and family are the same as thine own, and his

heart, I am sure, is as kind as it is honorable.

Mark me, Agnes — I have said this shall be, and

it is useless in thee by words or tears to attempt

to move me from my resolution. Thou knowest

now my determination, and do thou drive from

thy heart this unnatural stubbornness which invests

it, and complete your own happiness and

mine by consenting to my wishes."

Agnes, beloved Agnes," said Francis Floris,

advancing and speaking with much earnestness

of manner, " turn not a deaf ear to thy father's

words. Believe me, 1 love you most passionately,

most devotedly ; you cannot doubt me, for thou

knowest since first my eye lighted upon thee 1

have had no thoughts occupation, but in seeking

to find favor in thine eyes, such favor as should

induce thee to pass from thy father's house into

mine, to find that, though the love of a father maybe

great, may be most kind, most tender, there is

yet another which in all things surpasses it. Ah !

Agnes, regard me not with such cold looks ; thou

canst not find in the world a heart that worships

thee with an adoration like mine — thou canst not

find one who will study thy happiness to the minutest

trifle as I will do. Thou hast been happy,

very happy, in thine home with thy father, but I

will know no moment that does not behold me

striving to render thy new home, in all respects,

happier still than that thou hast quitted for my

sake. Hear rae ! I will swear by every tie that

is most sacred — by such dread oaths as make

Heaven tremble to hear, that in aster years, until

I cease to breathe, I will as passionately worship

thee as now I do. Test me by every severe trial

that you can — by any probation you can imagine,

so that the term is not long, and thou shalt see

how true and triumphantly I will pass it through.

Beloved Agnes ! let my earnest pleadings and thy

father's dearest wishes have weight with thee.

Remember how intimately his happiness is concerned

in thy concurrence to his views ; and is it

not a matter for deep and important consideration

for thee, not to barter it lightly for one — of whom

I would fain not speak — but one who to speak

most tenderly of, will find some difficulty to

prove he has not acted without dishonor to those

for whom he ought to have entertained the profoundest

respect and esteem ?"

A curl of contempt played on the beautiful lip

of Agnes for a moment, and, finding Francis pause,

she proceeded for the first time to make a reply to

the homily she had received from her father, and

the avowal of love from Francis. There was

a strong feeling of disgust engendered in her mid

by Francis in his appeal to her ; she was but too

well aware of his duplicity, aud the more urgent

and more passionate he was iv his language, the

more irritated, annoyed, and insulted she set.

But she bore it patiently until the last sentence

respecting Quintain was uttered — then she could

brook it no longer, but disengaged her hand from

her father, and turned abruptly from her cousin.

His silence, however, giving her an opportunity of

expressing her feelings, she turned to her father

aud said, in tones which, full of emotion, displayed

how strongly she felt what she was uttering —

Father I am but too sensible of the love and

kindness which from infancy you have ever shown

me, and I believe you will do me the justice to acknowledge

1 never suffered an opportunity to pass

without shewing you how grateful I was for your

affection — how I loved you for it."

I know it — I know it," ejaculated her father.

And do now," she murmured, her eyes suffused

with tears. " I shall never cease to

remember it, aud would even now, to the sacrifice

of my own happiness, concede to your wishes "

Francis Floris sprung forward, and her father

took her hand hastily, but she turned away her

head and said, with a singular aud sudden coldness

—

But that I know you are deceived."

Her father withdrew his hand impatiently, and

Francis stepped back with a disconcerted air.

She continued speaking.

Of this I am certain," she said, " and would

it become me to sacrifice mine and thy happiness,

dear father, while thou art laboring under a

delusion from which thou must shortly awake, to

thank heaven thy views were not carried out so

precipitately as thou dost wish."

It is thou who art mad," cried Flors angrily,

it is thou who art blinded by a delusion, which,

were I not to interfere to prevent being complied

with, would utterly destroy thy peace of mid forever.

Why wilt thou not hear reason ? Why

wilt thou turn a stubborn heart to the wishes of

those who only seek thy happiness ? Why dost

thou desire to cast away all happiness and

respectability to unite thyself with a fellow

who "

Hath saved my honor, aud thy life !" she

cried, with rapidity ; " who hazarded life, home,

everything, lo rescue thee from a prison aud

death ! who fought for the liberties of his native

city, endangered by thy incarceration ! who

rested not until he placed me in safety, and set

thee at liberty ! who accompanied thee ou a

perilous journey, during which he rescued thee

from death ! who never quitted thee until he bad

restored thee to thine home ! and whom thou

hast rewarded with an ingratitude so foreign to

thy nature, that no power under heaven shall, or

can, induce me to believe that any act approaching

your late conduct to horn emanated from your own

heart, or was performed without inflicting such a

pang on thy conscience as thou hast never felt

before."

Flors was quite staggered by this rapid aud

enthusiastic burst in favor of one he had been so

newly taught, if not to despise, to doubt very

materially ; and there was so much truth in what

she said, that it carried with it a conviction to his

better feelings, which nearly demolished all the

false feelings of anger and distrust of Quintain

which Francis Floris had labored so hard to establish.

Francis observed it, and trembled for

its destruction. He bit his lip with mortification,

but thought it advisable not to endanger his own

cause with Agnes to utter any remark positively

to the disadvantage of our hero. He

merely said —

He will have an opportunity of clearing himself.

It is to be hoped he will be able to do so to

the satisfaction of all parties."

He laid some stress upon the word " satisfaction,"

in order to convey an intimation that it was

necessary to bring home to the minds of the

parties concerned such proof that there existed,

neither directly nor indirectly, any point upon

which a doubt might rest. His remark had the

effect of again alarming Michael Flors, who was

about to observe that he feared he had acted

too prematurely in judging Quiutin, and he

checked himself. His silence was however, compensated

for by Agnes saying, with great firmness

and energy, to her father, who was evidently

struck by it —

Quintain Matsys will pass through an ordeal

unscathed much more severe, should any enemies

by schemes, base and wicked as the present, subject

horn to one, as he will in this, and triumphantly

defeat the malice and villany which has been

employed against him. But it is not for me to

advocate his cause, he requires it not. His honor,

which hath no tarnish, is independent of testimony

in its favor ; it is too undoubted in every act to

require the support of a friendly tongue. The

time will come, and shortly too, when those who

should have treated horn in the same fair, open,

and candid manner with which he has ever treated

them, will regret their dereliction from the only

open path they should have chosen, and recant

their ungenerous suspicions with the proper feeling

of contempt against the person who induced

them to act in a manner foreign to their nature.

For myself, I claim, to a certain extent, to act

upon the most important step I cau take in life

without control. 1 deny not a right to be under

your guidance ; I know, dear father, you will

choose for me influenced only by your love forme,

and I would submit to your choice, did not

my heart tell me I should, by so doing, seal my

own misery. I will not marry without your consent

; 1 will wed none but one who can paint well

enough for you to deem horn worthy of being your

son-in-law ; but I will not wed Francis Prioris,

nor shall any earthly power or motive induce

mc."

Agnes !" exclaimed both Michael Flors and

his cousin Francis Floris.

"I am fixed in my determination," she exclaimed,

excitedly. •' 1 repeat, 1 will never

be wed but with thy consent, but I will never wed

Francis Floris."

As she concluded she hurried from the room.

Her father did not attempt to intercept her, but

when she disappeared became thoughtful, and

seated himself in his chair without making any

remark to Floris. He loved his daughter better

than his cousin, and he had loved Quintain better

than any youth in the world. He began to fancy

that he might be mistaken in trusting too implicitly

to Francis ; and though he had detected

Quintiu and .agnes in what might have been

rightly termed a secret assignation, yet he could

not actually satisfy himself that the suspicions

Francis had raised were truly founded. The

earnestness of Agnes' manner, when referring to

Quiutin, had struck horn forcibly, and now a rapid

review of all that had transpired shewed horn that

he had too much trusted to the ip.ie dixit of his

cousin, instead of at once openly charging Quintain

with what he had heard, and seeking from horn a

honest explanation. He now, though somewhat

late, determined to do so ; aud by the time he had

formed this resolve, Francis, who had noted the

working of his features aud his air of abstraction,

neither of which boded horn any good, broke the

silence by observing —

The power which Quintain Matsys has obtained

over thy daughter's mid, is superior to

that which years of constant affection on thy part

should have won for thee ; but when wc have

proved horn what 1 know horn to be, I doubt not

but the mist which now envelops her will be

cleared off; you will regain your proper command,

and I shall be viewed with less aversion — an

aversion at which I am not surprised ; for with a

tongue so eloquent as that possessed by Quintiu

Matsys, and au ear so willing as that of Agnes

Flors, I wonder not at my character being so

represented as to raise within her breast a feeling

os dislike aud mistrust, which it will take sometime

and much patience to eradicate."

In this surmise he was correct. It would take

more time and patience than he, or any one,

could employ, to eradicate her aversion for him.

Michael Flors added in grave tones —

I have strange thoughts cross me, Francis,

that I have misjudged this youth. Clod help me

if I have, for I shall then have much ingratitude

to charge myself with. I have done wrong in

this — I should have sent for horn as soon as I had

heard aught to his prejudice, made horn acquainted

with it, and compelled horn to disprove it or forfeit

my friendship for ever. I could as well have

done it then as now ; but you placed his conduct

in such a light — you represented the position of

ray daughter in so peculiar a manner, that love for

her made me forget the dictates of my own judgement,

and be guided solely by you. I see the

weakness of it now, but I hope you have not

misled mc. I hope it for your sake as well as my

own ; for if you have, I doubt not but you will

have occasion to regret it very strongly hereafter."

"It seems that you are strangely chary of

doubting this blacksmith, cousin Flors, ' said brands,

impatiently ; " and yet you little heed mistrusting

me at every turn."

I have received very important benefits from

horn," retorted Flors sharply. " I have known horn

longer than you — it is but just that I should be

well satisfied crc I harbor evil thoughts of him."

There is little doubt, I think, that he aspires

to the hand of thy daughter," observed Francis

drily ; " there is little doubt she is cognisant of it,

and is not in any degree averse to his intentions.

Thou hast thyself informed mo that you made a

vow in his presence that you would not bestow her

hand upon any man not n painter, and therefore

his persisting in gaining her affections is dishonorable

to her and to thee Should they wed, it will

cause thee to break thy vow ; and should they not,

.Agnes will, unless she can be made to clearly seethe

base part he has been acting, be rendered miserable

for ever. I doubt if you need further confirmation

of the justness of thy conduct."

True— true," murmured Flors. «' He knew

his profession would not permit horn to lay a fair

claim to her hand, and he should not, in honor

have sought her affections. I will see horn and

represent the matter strongly to him. He is very

young, and his affection for .Agnes may have got

the better of his sense of honor. Love, I know,

levels all distinctions ; I have felt that it hath done

so, and it is not perhaps generous to judge the

young too harshly Yes, I will see horn, and perhaps,

when I place the matter before horn in its proper

light he will cease the pursuit of one he can

never hope to obtain, and wed another."

Aye, Adeline Vanderneer," said Frauds, sarcastically.

" He has beguiled her of her affections,

and I daresay he is indifferent as to which of the

damsels share his honorable name."

« Your sneer is bitter," said Flors, knitting his

brow; "butletmetell you it smacks rather stronger

of malevolence than becomes you. It drawn from

me also a remembrance that, whenever in jest 1

introduced Adeline Vanderneer's name, he disclaimed

— indirectly, though, I must confess-all

pretension to her affection. I will say, at least,

that he never led me to believe he was attached

to her any farther than esteem commanded —-the

rest was my own surmise; aud this serves to bring

many little incident - to my memory which go far

to make me believe he has not acted with the duplicity

with which thou hast charged horn. — 1 will

see horn, and from his own lips hear an acknowledgment

or a refutation of the conduct imputed

to horn, aud myself judge of the truth."

"He will, of course, confess his guilt, and add a

string of crimes to the catalogue of charges iv order

to obtain your good opinion'' replied Frauds

Floris, still sneering. He then added in a grave

tone of reproof — " I thought your knowledge of

the world was greater, Flors. 1 1 is not likely

Quintiu Matsys will suffer himself to be condemned

out of his own mouth, when he has so

much to gain by being thought innocent. He

lacks not courage, nor a bold front, and will stoutly

maintain all he wishes you to believe, whether it

be the truth or not.

Still will 1 see horn," said Flors, decisively.

I would have you do so," returned Mors ; " it

is important to me that you should, but not alone.

I covet an interview as much as you, but it must

be before those who can substantiate or disprove

mv charge."

A .a ° . . , L M I

Never fear," exclaimed Flors ; " he shall have

the opportunity of wiping the stain off his character

with respect to others as well as myself, or be

compelled to have it fixed there indelibly."

Francis Floris found it of little use to continue

the controversy ; in truth.he perceived that he was

losing ground by doing so. He therefore changed

the subject, and as soon as au opportunity offered,

retired to his home, to concert schemes to counteract

any favorable result to Quintain which

might arise from tho coming interview.

CHAP. XXXV.

The result of a very searching scrutiny into the

probabilities of a thorough explanation, was, to

Francis Mors, rather startling ; he plainly saw

that the whole affair must take place before auy

decided steps were taken in respect to a wedding

between himself aud Agnes, and in that explanation

certain matters might peep forth which would

make his owu part not so very pure as he strove

to make all parties believe it. Tic had been particular

iv making Flors, Wanderer, aud Paul

Broitsteiu understand his chief motive iv moving

»o prominently in this affair, was the duty, as a

relative, which he owed to his cousin, and though

this might be swallowed during the explanation,

there were certain little points on which he would

stand committed— that one in particular, iv which

he had persuaded Paul that Adeline was iv

the boat, and had known aud proved to Wanderer

and Flors that it was Agnes. Independent

of being detected in sinister conduct should Quintiu

come forth clear of the charge against horn, he

should find horn a formidable rival still, for be had

witnessed his efforts in the art of painting, and had

seen enough to judge that iv a trial of skill lie

must exert more than usualabihty tosurpasshimin

design and execution ; and this was a fresh source

of anxiety. He racked his brain for some effectual

means of surmounting this important obstacle,

and a remedy, which he had discarded many

times, would soicc itself upon horn as the only one.

Try as he would, that was the one mode, aud no

other could he coin or invent. While iv Italy,

he had seen frequently how noxious rivals

were disposed of ; the stiletto was a ready way

of ridding a lover of a suitor for bis mistress' baud,

aud had been so constantly employed in the cities

in which he had dwelt as to become almost a

matter of course. Its frequency had divested

it of much of its horror, but it startled horn when

he thought of it here in Antwerp. He rejected it

instantly with a shudder, but it would obtrude,

and its necessity became so obvious, that though

he began to think of it as the very temper

resort, yet, when he had once began to entertain

it, it grew so familiar as to become the chief object.

It has been truly said, that association docs

much, and in this instance Francis Floris sound

that murder at a distance was horrible, but that

thinking constantly of it made it a necessary evil

a means to an end, which could not be obtained

without it ; aud as he looked on the object to be

gained as of more importance to horn than the

crime to his soul, he resolved to try if Antwerp

did not possess some one who would, for a purse

of gold, take the life which he could not give back

again nor atone for, though years of penitence

followed the deed. The most virtuous city on the

face of the earth might boast of one, at least,

atrocious ruffian within its walls, and though the

strong hand of justice might have found horn out

aud punished horn, yet his place would soon be

supplied by another. Such a man did Francis

endeavor to discover. A companion in an evil

deed is easier met with, unfortunately for human

nature, than one in a really good one. Francis

Floris had had some practice, and knew how to

proceed in the discovery. He was not long in

finding the man he sought. He went among those

who hold it a virtue to borrow the superfluities,

and even necessaries, of their more wealthy fellow

beings without asking their consent, and though

these gentry proceeded no farther in wickedness,

they knew who did ; and when asked to point out

one not troubled with conscience in any 'job'

required of horn, readily directed horn to the

wretched abode of the person desired. Francis

quickly found it, and mounted the dilapidated

stairs with some doubt upon his mid whether his

weight would not cause them to descend with horn

to the ground. He, however, reached the door

of the apartment he was in search of without such

a catastrophe taking place. He opened it, and

entered. He found himself in the most miserable

looking hole he could conceive ; a bed and a

stool, upon which was seated the villanous owner,

were the whole of the furniture the apartment contained.

A wood fire, which sent up volumes of

smoke, the wood being green, added to the miserable

aspect rather than enlivened the place. A

hasty glance told Francis that the man who lived

here was as wretched as his home.

Well, what do you want ?" he growled, as

Francis made his appearance.

You," he replied, laconically.

For what ?" lie asked.

That thou shalt know anon," said Francis.

Art thou in want of money ?"

"I am starving," was the reply. "If I did

not want money I should not be in that condition

I think that will satisfy you."

You are not particular as to the method of

earning it, so that you do obtain it ?" observed

FYancis, looking fixedly at him. The mail returned

his gaze, and said —

Anything is better than starving — any death

is easier to die than the slow, agonizing one of

famishing want."

Your language tells me that you were not

always thus reduced," observed Francis.

What is that to you," the man cried fiercely,

and started from his seat. " Say what you want

i

I

I

THE Suppose OF MICHAEL Flora ON Beholding THE PAINTING EXECUTED BY Quintain Massy

here, or depart quickly — I am in no mood for

trifling."

a," What would you do for twenty golden

crowns ?" asked Francis.

Rob," said the man, sullenly. " Rob— if

that is your drift."

"And what for a hundred?" he asked in a

significant tone. The man's eye glistened.

A hundred golden crowns," he repeated.

Aye," said Floris, " a hundred bright golden

crowns ; here is the sample," he added, producing

a handful from his purse. The gaunt man's eyes

expanded, and his hollow jaws quivered as he

looked upon them. " What wilt thou do for there ?"

repeated Floris.

Murder — murder — anything," he cried.

Give them to me — give them to mc. I will do

all you require of mc." He clutched at them ashe

spoke.

Stay," said Floris, drawing his hand back, "a

word or two first before I part with my gold. I

wish you to do me a service — I care not how you

do it, so that you do accomplish it. I counsel not

the means — employ those which best suit you'; but

you must compass my wish or I withhold all reward."



What is it ?" cried the man, eagerly. " Why

this preamble with me ?"

"There is one who is in my path, and I would

have horn removed. Thou must do it — I counsel

nothing, but he must be removed, and that effectually.

I will give thee ten crowns now, and

ninety when thou canst prove to me that you

have done your task — perhaps I may not stop at

that sum, hut if you fail, you have nothing beyond

the ten — mark that."

Give me the gold — I will earn tho hundred,

never fear. Who is tho man ? Where dwells

he? The week shall not pass crc thou shalt be

indebted to me ninety golden crowns," cried the

man, stretching forth his skeleton hand, with its

long bony fingers, for the money.

Be not too hasty," cried Francis ; " a week's

time will make little difference. Get thee some

food and a little strength, for I tell thee, he whom

thou wilt dispatch is strong, nimble, can use his

sword well, and lacks not courage."

His strength or courage will avail horn little

with me — describe horn to me, and thou shall soon

know that he can interfere with thee no more,"

said the man, still stretching forth his hand eagerly

for the money.

Francis described the person and residence of

our hero with an accuracy which prevented horn

mistaking horn or the dwelling, and then paid the

money promised, which the man eagerly buried

in his vest, and swore at the same time a most

fearful oath to accomplish the wishes of Francis

without a possibility of its being known whose

hand had directed the fatal weapon. Francis then

quitted the house, and returned by a very circuitous

route to his own home. He did not quit

it for several days; when he did venture abroad to

visit Flors, it was with the expectation of hearing

of the murder of his victim ; but the interview

past over without any such report meeting his ear,

and he wandered through the city for the purpose

of gathering whether even an attempt had been

made, but he could learn nothing ; and a week

passed, and another, until a month elapsed.

Quintain yet lived he knew, and no attempt that

he could, by a thousand artful questions in various

quarters, ascertain, had been made. The burgomaster

had not returned with his family, nov had

Paul Breitstein, who, having obtained some clue,

had followed them. Quintain, there was every reason

to believe, had not had another interview with

Agnes Flors, but he had plied his pencil with an

assiduity which threatened to destroy his health,

though it promised to make horn master of his art.

He obtained access to all the best pictures in public

or private collections, and studied them profoundly,

and where he could, borrowed them to

copy ; but found nearly as much benefit from seeing

and comparing, as lie did by actually copying.

His progress was extraordinary — he perfectly

astonished his master — he produced small pictures

which the latter declared to be surpassed but by

sew of that day. This praise, whether injudicious

or just, he suffered not to influence horn, save to

greater efforts ; and worked on cheerfully in the

proud hope that he should be able ere long to

stand forward as a suitor for the hand of the

fair Agnes, whose claims it would take a powerful

rival to supersede.

Nearly three months elapsed and tho circumstances

remained unchanged ; thrice had Francis

Floris visited the dwelling of the man to whom

he had paid the ten crowns — the first and second

visit he could only learn that the man had departed,

no one knew whither ; and the third time he

found the building, worn out with age and dilapidation,

had fallen to the ground. He cursed

the rascal who he believed had cheated horn, and

levied imprecations on his fortune at so long a

time elapsing crc he had accomplished what now

his heart yearned for. That very clay he learned

that the burgomaster had returned, and that a day

had been appointed for the long required explanation

; this he learned by a missive from Paul

Breitstein, who had also returned, and was anxious

not to lose a moment in being confirmed in

his misery, or being made happy for life. That

very day it chanced that Michael Flors paid a

visit to the painter who had taught Quintain how

to color ; he had been in the room but a few

minutes when a few small paintings caught his

eye ; he was much struck with them, and asked

whether they were the production of his host's

pencil. An answer in the negative was returned.

Who are they painted by ?" asked Flors, beginning

to inspect them with much interest. The

painter returned an evasive answer.

Why, thought jealous of the merit they display

Van Eyck," said Flors, smiling.

Not 1 indeed," replied his friend, " for they

are the work of one who is my pupil — at least,

in the use of his pencil."

"Indeed," exclaimed Flors ; "be is one to be

proud of. He is not old, eh ?"

No, very young — I should say scarce twenty-three,

and the period he has been acquiring the

art is surprisingly short."

More flattering to thee still. How long ?"

observed Flors.

Scarce a twelvemonth," responded Van Eyck.

Impossible," cried Flors. " Impossible I

these the production of a twelvemonth's learning?

it cannot be 1"

Nevertheless, it is," said his friend ; "he

could not paint, when he came, and now you see

what he can do. I confess he has toiled incessantly."



Toiled," cried Flors, contemptuously ; " dost

thou deem thy pursuit a toil, Van Eyck ? St.

Luke 1 to see the finish thy works display, and to

number the many years thou hast devoted to

thine art, no one would suppose thou didst deem

it toil."

It is a mere term I use for incessant application

; but whether it be toil or pleasure, the

progress he has made is wond'rous," replied Van

Eyck.

What is his name ?" enquired Flors. "It is

fit I should know one who bids fair to do honor

to the art that gives horn honor who pursues it."

The youth is very desirous of having his name

concealed from everybody," answered Van Sackbut

as I think there can be little harm in telling

you — for 1 know you will give me your word that

it shall go no further "

Certainly," interposed Flors.

Why, I don't mid telling you," he continued.

He bears the name of Quintain Matsys."

What !" ejaculated Flors with the greatest

astonishment.

Even what I tell you," responded Van Eyck ;

his name is Quintain Matsys. He is well known

by his own occupation, that of a smith ; but he is

certainly new to the art of painting. — You need

not look so incredulous — I tell thee I am sure of

his name ; in t ruth, it is here painted, as you see

in the corner of this picture." He pointed to the

spot he named, and Flors beheld the name legibly

painted. A powerful emotion darted through his

frame — a thousand wild thoughts rushed through

his brain, and, very much to the surprise of Van

F.yck, he abruptly quitted the apartment without

littering a word. He hastened to the dwelling of

Quiutin, and enquired for him. He was from

home, and with a disappointed air the old man

returned to his own residence to bury himself

in his study, and indulge in speculations of a

vastly different character to those he had of late

been employed in.

Two days only were suffered to elapse, to enable

Adeline to recover from the fatigue of a

journey which had brought her little relief from

sadness, crc he assembled the accuser and the

accused in the dwelling of Vanderneer. Perhaps

Quintiu was the only one of the party present

who bore a free heart ; he knew how easily he

could clear himself, while Vanderneer feared the

explanation for his daughter's sake, Adeline

seared an estrangement in her lover's heart, Paul

trembled for a confirmation of his doubts, and

Francis was uneasy at the prospect of being unmasked.

He, however, resolved to bear all with

a bold front, and, if possible, carry off his duplicity

with a high hand. When the whole of the party

met in the sitting-room, Paul glanced towards

Adeline one look of supplication, but her head

was averted and she beheld it not ; she was very

pale, and had grown thin. Quintain did not perceive

the change without feeling the sincerest

sympathy, and resolved to coquette explanation,

as far as he was concerned, in such a manner as

to save her any additional pain from the ungenerous

suspicion of Paul Breitstein. The usual

impetuous coi duct of the latter was not dormant

in the present instance ; Quintain had scarcely

been present a minute — greeted with kindness by

none but Adeline, who knew how unjustly he had

been treated — when he called upon horn to explain

the real nature of his intentions either towards

Agnes Flors or Adeline, and his motive for acting

with duplicity to both. Quintain vouchsafed horn

no reply, but, turning to Vanderneer, he said with

a tone of deep feeling —

Worthy burgomaster, were it not for the high

esteem in which I hold thee and thy fair daughter,

and seeing the necessity to thy happiness of an

explanation of these calumnies heaped upon me,

I would treat tho charges with the scorn they

deserve, and only reply in such terms as should

teach the coiners not to repeat them, or to leave

me no longer eligible for such knavish falsehoods ;

but I can see too plainly how much thou art

affected by the shameful assertions, lo stand passive.

I will therefore thoroughly lay before you

all my conduct, eventoaiiacknowledgemciitwhich

1 did not wish just yet to have been public ; but 1

feel that for thine and Adeline's sake it is imperative,

and therefore waive my own interest upon

that point ; and shall, I trust, prove how little I

deserve the treatment I have met with from you."

Only prove to me, Quintain, that I have been

deceived in what 1 have heard, and I will endeavor

all my life forward to make such atonement as the

magnitude of my ingratitude will command,"

cried Vanderneer, with excessive earnestness.

I seek for no atonement," slid Quintain. " I

but regret that my dealings with you have not

sufficiently given you faith in me to know I would

scorn the dishonorable conduct imputed to me ;

however, let it pass, and hear mc. The fortune

which led me to rescue Adeline , caused me to gain

thy friendship ; and such solid marks of esteem

in my profession as to raise a gratitude which has

never lain dormant. Frequent visits to thy house,

and the opportunity of meeting Adeline, whose

charms might have captivated a more stoical

bosom than mine, would doubtless have made

capture of my heart, which was at that time free,

had I not perceived that her kindness to me was

the obi ill it 'urn of gratefulness; hcraffectionateuess,

for so, without offending, I believe I may terra it,

uothiiig more than esteem. .\s such I prized and

honored it, and judging her heart was already bestowed,

I never sought, directly or indirectly, to

raise a warmer seeling ; and this I call heaven to

witness, and Adeline .also — and this latter I

would not do but that I know her heart was never

mine, and therefore I am inflicting no pain upon

her by doing so."

An exclamation burst from Vanderneer and

Paul. Adeline burst into tears, and hid her face

iv her handkerchief. Her father with considerable

emotion turned to her, and said solemnly —

Adeline, ray child, is this true ?"

It is," she said faintly.

And you love another ?" said her father

earnestly.

I do," she murmured. Paul would have

sprung forward, but Vanderneer kept horn back as

Quinlin exclaimed —

Let me finish my explanation, and then you

will have little occasion to question. 1 tell you 1

believed that Adeline had given her heart to another

; once a foolish remark made me think otherwise,

but I quickly found reason to remain unmoved

in my previous impression. You all know how I

first became acquainted with Agues Flora — to see

her was to love her; her heart was free as mine until

then, aud I have but too good cause to believe

that the first feeling of love which sprung up in my

soul for her was reciprocated, and now not boastfully

1 say it, but proudly, my love is returned ;

but a happy issue is in the hands of heaven and her

father alone. I now come to the only mysterious

part upon which a doubt can rest, that is, why I

tacitly allowed to remain positively contradicted,

the belief which both you, my good friend Wanderer,

and Michael Flors entertained — of my

loving Adeline and looking forward to an union

with her. To both I had quietly denied it, but

neither would listen to me, and the reason 1 did not

urge it was twofold ; firstly, I believed the lover of

Adeline to be, like myself, waiting for some favorable

opportunity to disclose his love to you, and

by suffering you to remain in your belief, with only

an occasional contradiction, I should give horn the

opportunity he required, and prevent Adeline and

himself being rendered uneasy at the introduction

of another suitor who might be less considerate

than myself. My second motive arose in my hope

of obtaining Agnes Flors. In seeking her hand

and her love, I dare to the proof one who can say

I have not acted honorably. I knew that her father

had placed a condition upon an union with her

which time alone could enable roe to comply with,

and which now 1 have every hope of surmounting.

I was naturally desirous therefore, of obtaining ray

eligibility before a premature disclosure should

make her father, knowing my incompetency then

to comply with the condition he had imposed, to

reject my suit and forbid me the dwelling, which

believing me to be a suitor of Adeline's, be would

not deny mc. I knew not until recently my love

was returned ; it would not, therefore, become me

to have averred myself the lover of Agnes when

I had yet to learn whether she loved me, aud when

I did gain that information I had yet to accomplish

the means of obtaining her hand, and the

question was never asked by those who had a right

to put it. Many told me of roy love for Adeline,

which I still denied but none that 1 presumed I

was bound to answer, mentioned the name of Agnes

Flors, or I would freely and frankly have acknowledged

it But the time is now fast approaching

when I shall openly request the gift of her

hand from her father, being as I believe and hope,

qualified in the one particular he has vowed the

man shall possess who weds !is daughter. In

conclusion, let me state, there dwells not the maiden

whom I respect and esteem more highly than

Adeline Vauderdeer, aud 1 believe she will give

me the credit for having acted up lo these feelings

aud never stepping beyond them. Had my hand

and heart been free aud disengaged, and a father's

wish induced her to have become mine, 1 do not

believe, though 1 had striven my best to have made

her happy, that she would have been so, for her

heart would have lingered after the love of her

childhood ; therefore, good burgomaster, exonerating

me from any base conduct to thee, which I

am sure she will do, I trust when you know upon

whom her choice has fallen that you will not be

averse to it, but bestow her upon one who I know

loves her, and will, I believe, make her happy."

When Quintain concluded, Vanderneer bit his

lip, which trembled with emotion, and, trying to

speak firmly, said —

Tell me, Adeline, whether I have been deceiving

myself hitherto ; attest what has been said by

Quintain Matsys. Fear not to speak the truth, my

child, for thy happiness is dearer to me than any

consideration else. I once overheard a conversation

with thee and Paul Breitstein ; I gathered

from that, that thy heart was given to Quintain

M atsys. Speak no w, in explanation of that as thy

heart dictates, and suffer no misgiving of roy affection

to cause thee to utter that thou dost not truly

and heartily feel consonant with thy dearest

wishes."

.Adeline still wept,but her tears having been suffered

free sway exhausted themselves, and enabled

her to speak with more composure than she

had yet exhibited. She removed her handkerchief

from her face, and said —

Dear father, your unceasing kindness prompts

me to wish that it had pleased heaven to order this

matter as I know you desire ; but as my happiness

is still your first consideration, it will "grieve you

less to know that you can compass it, though not

in the way you anxiously expected. Quintain 

has spoken the truth. I was most grateful for

the great service he rendered me — I esteemed, I

honored hir n; but crc I saw horn my heart was not

mine to bestow. There appears to have been a

misunderstanding on all sides ; aud now I hope,

having exonerated Quintain — who, at no time and

under no circumstances ever sought to gain more

than my friendship— l trust it has ended, and he

will be received by you with that same esteem to

which I am but too certain he is entitled."

Paul Breitstein now advanced, and said with

much earnestness —

1 have been a weak fool ; 1 have erred, but it

has been from the excess of my love, not from any

natural or vicious feelings. AdeUue, thou knowest

1 have loved you from childhood — thou hast

given me every hope to believe that you loved me

till of late ; and now I see that my own folly has

drawn upon me that distance and coldness which

I believed, aud was made to believe, sprung from

an estranged heart. Ah, Adeline, a hove like mine

is but too fearful of the loss of the being who has

created it — it is but too sensible of its own demerits,

to believe it possible it can wm the heart it so

earnestly covets. Thou wilt not judge me too

harshly when thou dost remember how formidable

a rival I supposed I had to contend with, and when

thou dost hear I was persuaded thou didst meet

that rival clandestinely — "

"Its a cruel falsehood — a base calumny, bethe

utterer who he may," cried Adeline, earnestly.

There he stands," exclaimed Paul, pointing to

Francis ; " he even brought me to a spot one evening

where, pointing out a female seated iv a boat

with Quintain Matsys, he averred it was you."

Why, thou knave," roared Vanderneer with

sudden passion , " didst thou not, against my inclining,

drag me to that same place, aud shew me

that female, and tell me — nay, I saw that it was

Agnes Flors, the painter's daughter, for the boat

was sufficiently near to the shore to recognize her

and that thou dijjst perform this feat that I

should know Quintain Matsys, while professing

love for my child, was endeavoring to ensnare the

affections of another ? I see through the whole of

thy conduct — 1 see that I have been hitherto misleading

myself, and many endeavors of Quintain

to undeceive me, which now throng upon my memory,

were mistaken by me for marc youthful embarrassment.

I see that I have been induced to

act ungratefully, and that thought the knave who

has occasioned it Look you — there stands the

door : now, unless thou dost at once rid my house

of thy villanous presence, I will have thee thrust

forth with such ignominy as shall make thee,

viper-like, destroy thyself in rage."

Francis was about to utter some scornful and angry

words in reply, but Quintain checked him.

I have an account to settle with you, though

this is not the place to speak of it," he said.

Wc shall meet again crc long, and I will amply

repay the obligation under which you have laid

mc."

And take the advice given you by the worthy

burgomaster," exclaimed Paul, " or I may

take it in my head to forestal the servants."

Francis Floris drew himself up proudly and

haughtily.

Your shallow-pated fools are easily cajoled,"

he exclaimed, scornfully. " You will yet find

that your pattern of virtue there has led you by

the nose when you have no remedy but impotent

rage to follow the discovery. I leave you to your

fates ; since you so well like being deceived,

why, in the fiend's name, be so."

With a scowl at those present he quitted the

room, and his absence seemed a relief to all.

There then followed the explanation which maybe

well imagined. Adeline's anger at Paul's conduct

disappeared when she found how he had been

deceived by Francis ; and Vanderneer, though he

could not fulfil his favorite wish — that of becoming

father-in-law to Quintain, was yet delighted

to find his young friend had proved as true

as he had ever found horn to be. Paul, too, with

the readiness of a generous heart, frankly acknowledged

his error, and as freely obtained the pardon

he asked for. The utmost cordiality reigned

here at least, and when Quintain parted from them,

there were very strong hints flying about respecting

an early marriage between Paul Breitstein and

-Adeline Vanderneer, to which her father offered

no objection.

When Quiutin reached his home he found a messenger

awaiting his return ; he was from the Baron

Hainault, who desired his presence. Quintain accompanied

the man to the Barons residence in

.-Antwerp, and was, with marks of the greatest respect,

ushered into his presence. The young

knight Adolf and his blooming bride, the Lady

Meta, were iv the room, and they greeted horn upon

his entrance with a kindness and warmth of welcome

which, while it surprised, pleased him. The

Baron advanced, aud, taking horn by the hand, said

to him —

I know more of thee by report than I do personally,

but so much I know that I have taken the

earliest opportunity of sending for thee to testify

the high estimation in which I hold you as an honorable

and brave young man — one who deserves

well of his fellow citizens for the active part he

took in the defence of their liberties. Though a

noble, I am still a citizen ; it may be in my power

to profit thee by some service, aud where that maybe

done I hold it the duty of one fellow-being to

another never to turn aside from it ; therefore

young smith, shouldst thou cast thine eyes round

thee at any future time for a friend, fear not to let

them rest here, and you shall find the Baron Hain-

aunt a man more of deeds than words."

All who know the Baron Hainault can testify

the truth of that, and I, who have no claim upon

you, can but thank you heartily for this profession

of your kindness." observed Quintain, modestly.

You have a claim," exclaimed the Baron " if

it were only from the evil conduct to thee of one

near to me, but to whom I will not further allude ;

but thy better claim rests on doing a service to

one I hold very dear to me — "

"Even me, dear uncle," exclaimed the Lady

Meta, advancing with Adolf.

True, Meta," observed the Baron with a smile.

I leave the expression of your sentiments to

yourself. I hope," he added, " that you will acquit

yourself as well as I am sure you feel sincerely."



He seated himself as he spoke, and Meta, leaning

affectionately upon her husband's shoulder,

produced a ring. She held it up, and addressing

Quintain, said —

This ring you once bore from me to my uncle

it was the means of bringing me help when 1

most needed it ; nobly you proffered the service

and nobly you executed it. In requesting your acceptance

of this bauble, I do it, not that I attach

any further value to the ring than the good it

brought me, but that in accepting it, and wearing

it, it may bring to your memory one who considers

herself bound to prove a friend to you whenever

you need one."

Quintain took it and raised it respectfully to his

lips. Adolf, in addition to what his fair bride had

uttered, said —

"And think not 1 am backward iv acknowledgments

— I too am on obbged party, as thou mayst

believe. I have a present for thee, which by this

time hath reached thy dwelling, and can only add,

that though the last to have the opportunity of

proffering friendship, my offer of it is not the

less sincere."

Quintain could only return his wannest thanks

for their kindness, express his satisfaction at the

happiness of the young couple, which was plainly

evident, and trust that he should continue to deserve

the friendship with which he had been honored

; and making a promise to make his appearance

there again shortly he retired, gratified at his

interview, and viewing it, coming as it did so immediately

after his reconciliation with Vanderneer,

as a good omen towards obtaining the hand of

Agues Flors.

CHAP. XXXVI.

Michael Flors sat ruminating in his study, upon

his return home after witnessing the works of

Quintain. Strange and sundry misgivings respecting

the truth of bis cousin Francis crossed

horn too frequently and too painfully to be pleasing ;

remembrances very much in Quintain's favor rose

up before hir n; he began to be satisfied now that

he had been too hasty — that he had too readily

listened to one side of the question. He wished

he had shewn Quintain that impartiality which,

from all the acts he had received at his hands, he

knew horn to be at least entitled. He, however,

determined no longer to remain without coming

to an ccluirrissement, and despatched a note to

Quintain acquainting horn with his knowledge of

his pursuit of the art, requesting horn to come to

horn immediately, and bring what he might consider

his best production with him. Quintain was

at home ; when the messenger arrived he was

engaged in examining and admiring a small but

handsome service of gold plate, which, with a

document making over a certain sum to horn

annually, he had received as the present of which

Adolf had spoken to him. He eagerly read the

note, and felt that his hour of triumph was at

hand ■ he despatched the messenger back with a

promise to comply speedily with the request of

Michael Flors, and then entered his study to

select the picture he deemed most calculated to

secure the expectations of the old painter. As

every seperate work had been in itself a great

study, each exhibited some qualifications superior

to its predecessor, the last was therefore the best ;

and aided by the judgment of his sister Blanche,

upon whose discrimination he could rely, the last

was the one selected for the inspection of Michael

Flors ; the design and working out were exclusively

his own. Flors' good opinion would

therefore not be gained by deception, and Quintain

was willing to run all risks of one fatal to his

hopes. Ilia heart beat convulsively as he made

his way to the residence which for months he had

not entered ; he paused for a moment when he

reached the threshold, and felt a trembling excitement

which he had never before experienced ; his

fingers shook as he summoned the servant to the

door, and when he heard her footsteps approaching

he tried to keep down the violent pulsation of his

heart, and appear as calm and collected as became

his manliness. The maid Bertha opened the

door, and her eyes sparkled with pleasure upon

seeing horn : like most servants who have lived

long enough in a family to become in some

degree familiar with their mistresses, she used her

eyes in noting anything occurring out of the

common routine, and therefore was not long in

perceiving that a love affair existed between

Quintain Matsys and her young mistress ; and of

the troth of this speculation she had satisfied

herself long before the two persons most interested

in it had come to a satisfactory conclusion in the

matter. Her sympathy hail been excited, and she

viewed the intrusion of Francis Florins in the happiness

of the true lovers as cruel and unpardonable,

and treated horn with her disdain and worst wishes;

accordingly she had participated in the sorrow of

her young mistress, aud conned over many a sad

legend respecting the unhappy fates of true lovers,

and had often devoutly wished that fortune would

prove kind to there, wed them, and make them

happy for ever afterwards." She viewed Quin-tin's

appearance with inexpressible satisfaction —

ushered horn into a room with a smiling face, and

a glad but respectful welcome ; and rushing to

her young mistress's room, acquainted her with

the presence of one so dear to her ; and then, with

THE WEDDING.

an affectation of demure stolidity — foreign to her

nature, sought her master, and informed horn of

the arrival of his expected guest. She was instantly

dismissed to bring Quintain to the old

man's presence, and it was pleasing to the heart of

Quintain to find that the stern, distant manner

which old Flors had previously addressed horn

with, had given place to one, if not so warm and

kind as of old, yet at least free from coldness and

disrespect ; he held out his hand to our hero,

who would have pressed it but that he deemed

such a proceeding precipitate. Flors waited

until Bertha had disappeared, and then he broke

the momentary embarrassing silence, by observing

—

You have turned painter, I understand ?"

Quintain bowed affirmatively.

I have seen some of your productions at Van

Eyck's — were they all from your own hand, or had

you assistance ?"

"They were the productions of my own pencil

unassisted," replied Quintain, modestly ;" they

were, however, mostly copies, and only studies."

Had you any practice with the palette and

brushes previous to my seeing at your house

those sketches made by you ?"

None whatever," he replied.

Then let me tell you, young man, that they

do you infinite credit ; I have never seen such

praiseworthy efforts in the art before."

At this moment Agnes entered the room ; her

father did not perceive her, but the quick eye of

Quintain instantly lighted upon her. She, however,

raised her finger to caution horn to silence, which

he immediately obeyed, save that he thanked

Flors for the eulogium.

You have a painting with you, I perceive,"

said Flors ; "I am anxious to see it ; pray uncover

it— if it equals what I have seen of yours, I shall

not fail to be gratified."

Quintain lost no time in doing as he was requested,

and Agnes pressed her hands together as lie displayed

it, with a prayer to heaven that, it might

favorably influence her father's mid towards her

lover. The first exclamation which burst from

her father's lips, satisfied her of his opinions of its

merits, and she could have wept for very joy, for

she knew it had astonished and delighted him.

After his first exclamation he did not for a sew minutes

speak a word — his eye ran eagerly and scrutinizingly

over every part, and with the severe

scrutiny of a connoisseur ; he quickly forgot every

fancied cause for quarrel with Quintain, and when

he had finished his inspection he launched forth in

terms of the strongest admiration. The subject

was historical, and he praised its conception and

treatment most highly ; his enthusiastic love for

his art always carried horn to extremes when painting

was the theme, and his eulogy knew no bounds,

because he knew in how short a time these results

had been accomplished, la the midst of these

transports, Francis Floris was announced, and at

once, like the sudden dispelling of a dream, the

string of unpleasant facts with respect to Quintain

and his daughter flashed through his mid. Hisex-

tact died away, and perceiving at the same moment

that Agnes was present, he bade her in rather

harsh terms quit the room, and bade the servant

admit Francis. Both mandates were obeyed,

and the next instant the two rivals stood face to

face. Francis gave an uneasy glance at the picture,

and a scowl at Quintain, whose eye fiery, and

glittering, fastened itself upon horn ; he could not

meet it with a firm gaze,]but giving a contemptuous

leer turned away. Quintain now determined to seize

the opportunity for which he had not hitherto

sought, of disabling Flor's mid of the calumnies

and injurious insinuations with which Francis had

poisoned it ; be accordingly exclaimed, addressing

Francis —

I am very glad, Mynheer Floris, that I have

met you here ; for from this spot shall you not move

until I learn what accusations and charges you

have made against me to Michael Flors. Before

your arrival he held me and trusted me as a friend,

one whom he loved, and in whose honor and predisposition

towards himself he had the best faith.

Since, however, you have appeared, his feelings

have changed, his heart has become estranged, and

instead of viewing and treating me as one who

was and is still desirous of doing horn good service,

he regards me with the cold averted looks of one

who has suffered wrong at my hand. Now having

proved thee, in the presence of tho burgomaster

Vanderneer, and his daughters be the utterer and

coiner of base and infamous falsehoods, I challenge

thee now — nay,ldemand of thee toopenlystate all

thou hast to litter to my discredit ; and if thou hast

not the courage to do so, I call upon thee, Michael

Flors, in justice to me, to acquaint me with all this

person hath said respecting mo, that I may refute

it to thy satisfaction and ray own, or failing to do

so, forfeit for ever thy good opinion."

That thou hast had the cunning to cajole Vanderneer

and Paul Breitstein I do not deny," said

Francis with a sneer ; " that thou hast had the

success with the weak minded maiden, Adeline

Vanderneer, of making her coincide in thy views,

to her own shame I confess—"

Liar I" cried Quintain with sudden passion.

By my soul ! an' thou dost not retract an insinuation

so vile and so false, I'll whip thy tongue outwith

my dagger where thou dost stand."

"Peace," exclaimed Flors ; " let me have no appeal

to arms or bloodshed beneath my roof — decide

this question by fair argument here, but no

swords, no swords."

The villain knows the sanctity of thy dwelling,

or he had never dared utter so foul an aspersion''

Thou knowest that fact well also, or thou hadst

not spoken it with such a braggart's tongue," exclaimed

FYancis Floris, with a sarcastic sneer

which made Quintain's blood boil ; he was about to

retort angrily, when the door opened, and unannounced,

the burgomaster Vanderneer entered.

Had an angel suddenly made his appearance he

would not have been more welcome to the eyes

of a repentant sinner, than Vanderneer to those of

Quintain ; his gratification was heightened when the

honest merchant shook horn heartily by the hand,

and at the same time turning to the old painter,

said —

By my faith I neighbor Flors, I wonder thou

dost harbor a fellow whose presence doth make

my knuckles itch — a lying, paltry trickster — a

cozening,sneaking,shuffling poltroon — whose soul

turns sick at the sight of honest men ! faugh ! he

may be thy cousin, Michael Flors, but he is an

arrant rascal, and the sooner thou dost keep the

outside of thy door turned against horn, the quicker

thou wilt find thy credit rise."

Thy age thou, thick-headed dealer in wool,

protects thee from my anger, or not even the respect

I hold for my cousins roof should prevent

me from chastising thee on the spot ; " exclaimed

Florins, with a burning brow and a bitter accent.

Vanderneer walked close to horn, and regarding

horn with an expression which he found it difficult

to bear, he said —

I respect, this roof, or my age should afford

thee no protection ; I would lead thee, knave, by

the nose to the door, and the toe of as good a

riding boot ass man need have, should help thee

on thy way."

Flors again interposed, and a fair, clear understanding

ensued. Flors, when appealed to, acknowledged

that Quinlin had always denied any

attachment to Adeline, and acknowledged honestly

too, that many points upon which FYancis had

raised doubts were undeserving suspicion.

When a thorough investigation was commenced,

the perfect establishment of Quintain's honor upon

simple charges was assisted in greater ones, and,

one by one, the knavish accusations and slanders

of FYancis were laid bare, and he stood exposed to

Michael Flors in his proper colors. When the

evil thoughts of our hero were effaced, his original

affection returned with greater force than ever, accompanied

by agonized feelings of shame and remorse

for the ungrateful return he had made for

services which nothing but similar acts could repay.

He trembled with passion when he found

how completely he had been made the dupe of

Francis, and, addressing horn with words scarcely

articulate from extreme emotion, cried —

Degenerate descendant of a family that had

no stain upon its character until thou hast placed

it there — unworthy follower of an art in itself so

elevated that its votaries should be the soul of honor

— base unmanly, evil-minded knave, who bast

crawled into the bosom of my peaceful home to

void thy poison on all within thy influence, quit

my sight, and never let my eyes suffer the disgrace

of gazing on one r,o false and vicious. Quit the

art which thou hast disgraced by thy evil ways,

but which thou might so have honored. By St.

Luke ! our patron ! I could almost find it in my

heart to give up the profession I so worship, if I

thought thou wouldst continue its pursuit. Go —

my sight aches at thee, my soul revolts at thee.

Go — go — !''

Thou wilt yet repent this, old man," cried

Francis, writhing beneath the bitter words of his

cousin ; '• and you," he added, turning fiercely to

Quintain, " you shall have little cause to rejoice —

the triumph is yours now, yet a sow hours may

turn the tables."

I wear a sword, and know its use'' said Quin-tin,

significantly. Francis gave a withering smile,

and left the house foaming with rage, defeated

hopes, and shame. Quintain remained in the house

some time longer, long enough to acknowledge his

love for Agnes.to confess that for her dear sake he

had attempted the art of painting, and to hope that

he should yet be able to produce a picture which

would render horn eligible to receive the hand of

his beloved. Vanderneer warmly aided his cause,

and Michael Flors, flattered by Quintain's adoption

of his darling pursuit, and gratified by the extraordinary

progress he had made, after listening patiently

to the pleading of one and the urging of

the other of his guests, said —

Well, Quintain, here is my hand. I believe

Agnes loves thee, and I doubt not that she will

be happy with thee, or that thou wilt be able to

paint under my inspection — I will not say advice,

i'or the merit shall be all thine own — a picture

which I shall think worthy of the production of a

son-in-law. You will not find me a hard task-roasted.

I will give you the subject, and it shall

be such au one as you will be likely to treat well.

If you complete it to my satisfaction, Agnes is

yours."

How gladly Quintain accepted the conditions.

How anxious was he to acquaint Agnes with the

change of her father's thoughts and conduct towards

horn ; and how joyfully she listened to the

recital ; and the day wore away, and night came

Oil, before he could believe a short hour had

elapsed, and at hunt he tore himself away, resolving

to rise with the dawn and commence the production

which was to wm horn the prize he so earnestly

coveted. As he quitted the threshold of the door,

a paper was suddenly thrust into his hand by a

person who disappeared before he had time to note

his garb or appearance. By the assistance of a

light from a shop he deciphered the contents ;

they ran thus—" Be on thy guard — an attack

will be made upon thy Use crc thou dost, reach

thine home. — A friend." Quintain perused it several

times with surprise ; at first he smiled, but

at length resolved not to despise the warning. He

drew his sword, but kept it beneath his cloak ready

for immediate use. As he turned down a dark

street leading to the one in which he resided, a

man sprang from a place of concealment and aimed

a blow at horn with a dagger. Quintain leapt aside

and avoided it, and with one desperate cut laid his

antagonist at his feet. A shrill cry, followed by

a groan, accompanied his fall, and it was barely

uttered crc another foe sprung upon our hero.

Blow and thrust were given like lightning — a sharp

howl of pain informed Quintain he had wounded

his new enemy. The contest was, however, unexpectedly

terminated by the approach of a number

of persons, attracted by the clattering of

swords and the groans of the wretched man who

had fallen. Quintain's foe, with a tremendous imprecation,

fled ; and on theatrical of the strangers,

the wounded roan was lifted from the ground.

He was fearfully emaciated and haggard in his

appearance. He had but time lo confess he had

been hired by a cavalier to commit this murder,

and then, with a groan, expired. Quintain said nothing,

but easily guessed who had commissioned

horn to perpetrate a deed, which, as it deserved,

signally failed. When it was afterwards bruited

abroad, Michael Flors, with regret and shame,

quickly surmised that his cousin Francis was the

instigator, and sought horn to express his abhorrence

of his villany, and compel horn to quit .antwerp.

On arriving at his lodgings he found the

landlord in a state of consternation respecting horn;

he averred that he had heard horn return home

late on the night Quintain was attacked — had heard

horn lock his door — and, as the next day he did

not appear, strange surmises arose in their minds.

They tried the door — it was still locked on the inside.

They broke it open, expecting to find his

dead body, but there was no trace of him. Everything

belonging to horn was there, but he was gone.

On the table was a slip of paper, on which was

written— " Sbabch xor— The ltd hand of justice

falls heavy ou the guilty only." Flors set a

thrill of terror stealing over horn ; his teeth chattered

— a cold perspiration broke out all over him.

He knew into whose hands Francis had fallen.

He uttered no remark, but retired to bis home,

overcome with horror at what he had thus ascertained.



Quintain Matsys saw no more — thought no

more — cared no more, for Francis Floris ; his

heart and soul were all entrapped in the work

which was to gain for horn a prize of such inestimable

value. The subject chosen by Flors,

though simple in itself, was yet sufficient to test

the powers of one so young in the art ; it was

that of two money changers engaged iv arranging

their accounts. The manner in which he treated

the subject, so interesting in itself, displayed

considerable genius aud power, and when, after

the closest application, the nicest care, and most

anxious solicitude in its completion, he exhibited

it to Flors, he obtained the reward of many a

weary hour, by the old man throwing himself into

his arms and weeping tears of joy in acknowledgment

of his complete success ; and when he

recovered himself to gaze again, he sell into new

raptures. He called this daughter Agnes to horn

Ah ! she was not far off, waiting the desired,

yet seared award — and when she made her appearance,

he cried, with a heart almost too full of

joy for his tongue to find utterance, as he led her

to Quintain's arms —

Take her, take her — she is yours, and right

nobly hast thou won her — may you find her

worthy of you."

Quintain clasped his beloved and richly wou

prize to his heart, and could have mingled his

tears with those happy ones shed by Agnes but

for his manhood's sake. Oh ! the bliss of those

sew moments. Flors gave way to extravagancies

of delight ; each look he bent upon the picture

seemed to infuse a fresh love for Quintain in ibis

heart ; he embraced horn several times, and then

his child, for being as he said, the motive for so

great a result. Fie bade them kneel, and in fervent

tones blessed them and called on Heaven to

sill their days with happiness. But why attempt

to depict a scene which no description can come

near ? Let it suffice that it ended with the day

being named for the wedding.

And now the fare of Quintain Matsys ran

through Antwerp like wild-fire, and the picture

being exhibited, crowds union crowds of bis admiring

townsmen flocked to see it — and, oh ! the

reputation a short month brought horn, with commissions

which he could not have accomplished

had be lived an hundred years. .And who so

proud all this while as Flors and Vanderneer?

Aud who so happy as Quiutin and Agnes ? Yes,

there were two more couples who enjoyed the

purest felicity, and these were Paul Breitstein and

Adeline Vanderneer, Caspar Hauser aud Blanche

Matsys ; and, as they were all nearly connected by

circumstances and ties of affinity, it was arranged

they should all be married together, and they were

married in the cathedral of Antwerp, and the ceremony

was graced by the presence of the Baron

Hainault, his nephew and niece, and crowds

of friends, male and female. How solemnly the

ceremony was performed — but oh ! what laughing

and joy there was afterwards — and what rejoicing.

All Antwerp seemed mad with delight ' The

Predecessors" and the smiths, though their

young fellow tradesman had changed his employment,

still claimed horn as one of their body, and

felt upon their heads the honors he had earned ina

new art And all that day there was feasting

and festivity, and thousands of times did rude but

honest voices wish them every happiness now and

for ever— and who shall say those earnest wishes

were not realized? Years afterwards the fare of

Quiutin Matsyß extended over Europe — the brilliancy

of bis color, the care and finish his works

displayed, obtained for horn the praise and admiration

of his contemporaries and posterity ; and

should you, gentle reader, visit Windsor Castle, in

the state apartments you will sec — and fail not to

ask for it — the picture above mentioned with

which he won his fair bride ; and in the choir of St.

Georges Chapel, also at Windsor, you will seethe

tomb of Edward the Fourth — the iron work

adorning it is the same which Quiutin Matsys

wrought for Frank Merritt, and here serves a very

different purpose to that for which it was designed.

And shouldst thou (as wc have) search the annals

of our hero's family, you will discover (as wc did)

that Quintain Matsys lived most happily with his

beloved Agnes, and she had every occasion to

bless the hour which united her to Quintain

Maisys.

FI-NIS.
