98tffiBSumi£ii§ra

n

MMIW

MIIEBIIBpiMHmBimdwi

Wolff Jim f I JUHjmi ■mVISlBUBllMGDw^^BlariSt

w

mom

fflH

HSR!

ii ■ '%■ ■

;,

OF THE
U N I Veracity
Of ILLINOIS

Ev7^>a
v.\

The person charging this material is responsible for
its return to the library from which it was withdrawn
on or before the Latest Date stamped below.

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books are reasons for disciplinary
action and may result in dismissal from the University.
To renew call Telephone Center, 333-8400

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS LIBRARY AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

O-1096

Id

rr$i

BY

Henry EEEOLL,

AUTHOR OF " AN UGLY DUCKLING."

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. I.

LONDON:

RICHARD BENTLEY AND SON,

Ijhtblisfjers in ©rUttwrg to |^cr Jftajestrr tfje ©urrn.

1888.
(All rights reserved.)

v. 2.

CONTENTS OF VOL. I.

I. New Arrangements . . 1

II. An Invitation . . 41

III. Contrasts . . . 71

IV. In the Studio . . 87

V. Day-dreams . . . 110

VI. A Helpful Model . . 128

VII. A Proposal . . . 14G

VIII. "When one loves" . . 164

IX. Qualifying for the Position . 178

X. Domestic Economy . . 193

XI. A Windfall . . . 221

XII. A New Friend . . l 2i}\

CHAPTER I.

NEW ARRANGEMENTS.

I don't like it — I don't like it at all, my
dear," said Mr. Chesham, in what would
have been, in any one else, a distinctly
fretful tone.

His wife looked up from the pile of socks
her patient fingers were busily darning, and
asked with a smile, in which were involved
the love and admiration of ten years —

What don't you like, my love ? "

VOL. I. 1

This turning our home into a sort of
boarding-house," said Mr. Ohesham, impatiently
whisking away a fly which persisted
in settling on his august nose.

Oh, you mean Miss Durant's coming.
Stay, you have let your newspaper fall ; ,!
and the alert little woman darted up, picked
up the Times, and laid it on her husband's
knee, dropping a kiss at the same time on
his plump white hand.

Thanks, dearest. Yes, I mean Miss
Durant's coming. It is hard — more than
hard — that I should be obliged to admit
a stranger within my family circle — my
precious family circle."

Mrs. Chesham smiled fondly at him.
It won't be like a stranger, darling.
Miss Durant is only just a girl, like our
Mabel. You can think she is a visitor."

Mr. Chesham shook his head.

No, pet ; she will never seem like a
visitor. It is hard — very hard. By Jupiter
! " he exclaimed, after a pause, during;
which he had been thoughtfully rapping
the nails of one hand with those of the
other, " I cannot stand it. I will telegraph
at once, and put her off; and you must
write, making some excuse for changing
our plans."

"Oh, George!" faltered little Mrs.
Chesham, " think again. The money will
come in so very handy for Willie's school-bills
; and the— the wine-merchant worries
so to be paid. Constance shall be kept out
of your way — indeed she shall, my love ;
but do let her come. It will be such an
advantage to Mabel in every way, too."

Of course ! " muttered Mr. Chesham,
a gloomy look on his florid, flaccid face.
Well, I could not bear to be selfish "

You never are, love," interpolated Mrs.
Chesham, letting fall her sock and casting
an admiring look at her lord and master.

— but one thing I would like to ask
for," continued Mr. Chesham, acknowledging
the compliment by a bend of the head.
"It is only a little thing, but it would
make all the difference in the world to
my life."

My poor darling ! ' cried his wife
eagerly. "What is it?"

I should like to have the Times bought
altogether, instead of being taken in for an
hour. You cannot conceive, my love, the
worry that hour has been to me. I have
never mentioned it — you know how averse
I am from calling attention to any little
privation which affects no one but myself
but I may say that the thought of that
hour has haunted me day and night. I

have never felt in the mood for reading
the news when the boy has brought the
Times. The very thought of being ordered,
as it were, to read now made me invincibly
disinclined to doing so ; and, then, just as
I had overcome the feeling and had settled
down comfortably, the bell would ring,
and that confounded — I beg your pardon,
my dear — that boy would call for the
paper."

Having concluded this somewhat long
speech, Mr. Chesham reclined his head
wearily against the back of his very easy
chair, and took a cough lozenge.

His wife had been gazing at him with
a remorseful countenance. " My poor
George ! " she said. " I have noticed a
hundred times how it annoyed you to part
with the Times when the boy came ; and
yet, do you know, it never even occurred

to me to do as you suggest, and as of course
shall be done now. It only shows how
thoughtless habit makes one."

Her husband elevated his chin and
breathed a loud acquiescent sigh. Just
then the door was opened, certainly not
noisily, but not silently enough to avoid
giving a shock to highly strung nerves, as
was shown by the sensitive little shudder
which shook Mr. Cheshire's shoulders. No
one appeared, but a voice, the chief characteristic
of which was its exceptionally
melodious clearness, said —

Mother."

Yes, darling," responded Mrs. Chesham,
with a nervous glance towards the armchair,
and getting up so hurriedly as to
upset her work-basket with all its odds
and ends.

Can I speak to you a minute ? "

Yes, dear. Wait until I have picked up
my things," said the little woman, going
down on her knees.

Oh, have you dropped your basket ?
Don't kneel. I'll pick them up in a
minute."

The owner of the voice here entered the
room, and proved to be a tall girl of
twenty-two or thereabouts. She lost no
time in kneeling down by her mother,
and began sweeping the things back into
the basket with wonderful quickness.

Mr. Chesham had been tapping his
finger-nails together ever since the first
opening of the door. When the newcomer
had travelled on her knees quite
underneath the table, in search of some
particularly adventurous reels of cotton,
he said in a tone expressive of saintlike
patience — ■

Perhaps, Mabel, you have not observed
that you have left the door open."

An inarticulate exclamation issued from
beneath the table.

Mr. Chesham continued —

If I thought that a current of air
would benefit your mother or yourself in
the slightest degree, I would gladly welcome
any inconvenience or annoyance it
might bring to myself. As it is, however
"

Here the girl suddenly emerged from
her hiding-place, dropped the last reels
into the work-basket, seized her mother's
arm, and was in the hall, with the door
shut, before the " however," drawled out
to its utmost capabilities, had come to
an end.

"Oh, Mabel," remonstrated Mrs. Chesham,
with a little gasp, " you shouldn't be so

violent ; indeed you shouldn't. My dear,
he hadn't finished speaking."

Well, he can finish in there, all by
himself," said Mabel, with an irreverent
laugh. " At the rate he was talking at
he'll about have finished that sentence by
luncheon time."

Oh, Mabel ! " her mother began again.
But Mabel interrupted.

I want to know where that dear little
table I got for Constance's room has gone.
I've just finished the cover for it, and now
the table itself seems to have vanished."

Mabel looked at her mother severely.
Mrs. Chesham gazed up the stairs, then at
her daughter's waistband, then at her own
work-marked forefinger, and finally said ina
very small voice —

"My dear, that table didn't suit the
room."

Didn't suit the room ! " cried Mabel.
Why, if the table had been specially designed
and made for the room, or if the
room had been built np round the table,
they couldn't have gone together better.
Besides, mother, i" was to do Constance's
room. Where is that table ? "

Mrs. Chesham clasped her hands.

My darling," she faltered, " Geo —
George "

Aha ! " said Mabel triumphantly ;
I've been waiting for George. Well —
George ? "

George said You've no right to

speak to your mother like that, Mabel,"
said Mrs. Chesham, suddenly turning the
tables upon her daughter. " I am your
mother, and he "

Is not my father, thank Heaven ! "
finished Mabel fervently. Then, drawing

her mother into the dining-room, she put
her into a chair, and patted her shoulder
caressingly, saying —

Never mind, poor little mother. I
guessed where it was, of course, only I
thought I would make you confess. It's
in his room, I suppose ? "

Mrs. Chesham nodded, and said with
more courage —

Yes, dear. And he has been so kind.
He has actually said that you may have
that flower-stand of his — you know, the
one that stands in the window — for Miss
Durant's room."

Oh, has he ? " returned Mabel, with a
curl of her very short upper lip. " He is
really too kind. That old flower-stand !
Dear me ! "

Where are you going, dear ? " asked
Mrs. Chesham in alarm, as her daughter,

with her back very straight, marched towards
the door.

For the table ! n answered Mabel innocently,
raising her eyebrows a little as
she turned her head to answer her mother.

Mabel ! " cried Mrs. Chesham, fairly
springing out of her chair with dismay.
You wouldn't — oh, you wouldn't '

Yes, I would," said Mabel firmly.
"You needn't worry about it, mother. We
shall have to put our foot, or our feet,
down sooner or later, and we may as well
do it sooner. We can't take all the money
Miss Durant is going to pay us, and allow
her to be done out of a single thing."

Such a little table " began Mrs.

Chesham. But her inexorable daughter
interrupted once more.

If it were only a box of matches, and
had been bought with that money, it must

be given up ; unless, indeed," she added,
with a little smile, " you would like me to
ask him for the money to buy another
with."

Oh, don't ask him for money. Anything
is better than that."

Then " said Mabel ; and, without

more ado, she walked across the passage,
by courtesy termed a hall, and opened the
door of Mr. Chesham's room.

Her stepfather was leaning back, with
closed eyes. The girl took in the position
of the table at a glance. It was by his
very side, neatly arranged with a little
cover, and holding his book, his box of
cough lozenges, his paper-knife, and the
glass of water he always kept by him.

Mabel calmly and quietly removed the-e
objects to the chair that had, until now,
done service in the room of a table, took

up the subject of dispute, and left the
room.

Her mother was peeping anxiously round
the dining-room door.

How did he take it ? Did he look
vexed ? " she eagerly asked.

He had his eyes shut," answered
Mabel.

Asleep ? "

No, he was not asleep ; but his eyes
were shut, and he did not open his mouth.
Good-bye for the present, mother dear ; I
am just going to finish that room. Don't
go back there and offer yourself up as a
sacrifice yet awhile. Have a little cosy
nap in the dining-room," said Mabel,
vanishing upstairs with her prize.

Mrs. Chesham crossed the hall on tiptoe
as soon as her daughter was out of sight,
listened for a moment at her husband's

door, and then stole cautiously away in
the direction of the kitchen, to give " an
eye " to some extra culinary arrangements
in honour of their guest's arrival, which
lay heavy on her already overburdened
little mind.

Upstairs, in a rather large, bright, and
very prettily and daintily furnished sitting-room,
Mabel was putting the finishing
touches to her handiwork, with a bitter
smile on her face which was not pleasant
to see.

Hateful old wretch ! " she muttered,
as she maliciously put the rescued table
down with a little thump just over where
she supposed her step-father's head to be.
How mother ever could have seen anything
in him ! Poor, gentle, weak mother!
Oh, if I were only a man I "

These last words were accompanied by

a very suggestive tightening of the lips,
and clenching of the hand, which, although
neither small nor weak, was very far from
masculine-looking.

No one else, seeing Mabel as she stood
arranging her flowers in a vase on the
little table, would have echoed the wish
she had just uttered. She was tall and
finely made, neither too slender nor too
robust, holding herself straight and erect,
her head proudly set on her shoulders ; her
eyes were dark grey, her hair dark brown,
her mouth a sweet and lovable one — when
its expression was not marred as just now.
She was a very pretty girl, richly gifted
in almost every way by Nature. She was
quite aware of the fact, and grateful for it ;
but she was one other thing, for which she
was very far from grateful — she was
George Chesham's step-daughter.

It did sometimes seem more than a little
hard that her life should have been made
such an uncomfortable one, simply because
her mother had allowed herself to be
married to a man who, Mabel was sure,
could never have been anything but what
he now was — objectionable. She and her
mother might have been so happy together.
The little income, which was a tight fit
for four, would have been ample for two
people, both of them women ; and it would
have been so pleasant to have her mother
all to herself, serene and smiling, as she
remembered her in the days before her
second marriage. What a gay little
mother she had been then ! Always ready
for a romp, or to tell stories, or play at
dolls ; never flurried or put out by anything.
It had not taken long to change
her. Yery soon after Mr. Chesham had

vol. 1. 2

obtained possession of Mrs. Moore and her
income, he had found the arduous post
which he held in a Government office " too
much" for him, and had relinquished it,
intending, he informed his wife, to lookout
for something lighter. To " look out,"
however, it is necessary to use one's eyes,
and as Mr. Chesham's particular disease
necessitated his keeping those organs closed
during a large part of the day, his " looking
out " resulted in nothing more than his
obtaining a very clear insight into his own
perfections — an insight which, however
valuable and interesting to himself, was
not productive from a pecuniary point of
view.

No nitre time for Mabel with her mother
now. Mrs. Chesham had not even leisure
to play with the new baby, Willie ; he
was made over to Mabel, while the mother

nursed her husband, and tried hard to
soothe the lot which, he said, was such a
bitter one. Mabel had never liked her
step-father, but when she saw her mother
degenerate from a brisk, healthily cheerful
matron into the nervous, timid, shrinking
creature she now was, Mr. Chesham became
detestable to her. The money which
came from her own dead father, and which
should have been spent on forwarding her
education, went to pay the " invalid's "
wine bill and cigar merchant. She had
to finish growing up as best she could,
with the unsatisfactory feeling strong upon
her that her step-father regarded her as an
interloper, and would have been glad of
any opportunity of getting rid of her.

If it had not been for her mother's sake,
Mabel would have preferred to go out asa
governess, or to try any other way of

gaining a livelihood away from the house
which Mr. Chesham called " home ; " but
she knew that her mother depended upon
her for help and protection, and she loved
her mother very dearly. With endless
perseverance and trouble, she had cultivated
a gift she possessed for painting, and
lately she had made one or two portraits
of friends, which had succeeded very fairly,
and for which she had received a modest
sum. This fact made an enormous difference
to her, and even helped her to regard
Mr. Chesham with a more humorous and
less personal eye.

She was looking forward very much to
Constance Durant's coming. She had
known her for two or three years past,
and had paid two long visits to Layton
Abbey, where Constance lived with her
aunt, Miss Durant.

Constance and Hubert Durant were the
orphan children of Miss Durant's half-brother,
Francis, who had started in life
with a good fortune and fair prospects,
but who had muddled away the first, and
blasted the latter in a wonderfully short
time, putting the crowning-point to his
innumerable follies by taking to wife a
pretty, silly girl, who, after doing her
very best to entangle his affairs yet more
inextricably, died in giving birth to her
second child. Mr. Durant had struggled
on for a few years, borrowing here, spending
there, going from bad to worse, but
always managing to keep some sort of
a roof over his motherless children's heads.
Frequent letters — letters which grew always
more incoherent — found their way to the
stately old house where dwelt Miss Durant,
who had been a considerable heiress on

her mother's side. The maiden lady had
been wont to give a grim sneer at the
sight of the well-known, untidy handwriting,
which she just glanced at before
tearing up envelope and enclosure unopened,
and consigning them to her wastepaper
basket. She would help Francis
Durant no more ; she had helped him
enough.

But, when one day she received a letter
from her half-brother's landlady, intimating
that her lodger was dead and that his
children were friendless, penniless, and
alone, Miss Durant never hesitated for an
instant. Her maid was immediately despatched
to London, with orders to see
that everything necessary was done, and
to bring the children back with her to
Lay ton Abbey. Miss Durant meant to do
her duty by her orphan nephew and niece,

but the duty turned out, in the case of one
of them at least, to be a pleasure. The
little girl, Constance, never succeeded in
winning her aunt's heart. She was timorous
and nervous. The only person with
whom she was thoroughly at home was
a woman named Robson, who had been
the children's nurse in London, and whom
Miss Durant had retained as Constance's
maid.

The boy, Hubert, who was a year or
two older than his sister, had, on the other
hand, taken his aunt's heart by storm.
He was a handsome, bright little fellow,
who had made sure of a welcome at
Layton Abbey, and had from the first
hour treated stern old Miss Durant with
a fearless confidence which suited that lady
exactly. Miss Durant was wont to be
extreme in her feelings, and she had loved

this boy with an all-absorbing, vehement,
jealous love, sometimes almost painful
to see.

Hubert was not allowed to go away to
school ; he had the best tutor that could
be procured, who was perpetually harassed
by appeals not to allow his pupil to work
too hard. When Mr. Wrack's mission was
ended, and it was time to think of Oxford
or Cambridge, Miss Durant found all her
plans overthrown. She had long been
dreading the evil day when she would be
obliged to separate from her beloved boy,
who, now that he had reached the stature
of manhood, was more the light of her
eyes than ever. She had seriously contemplated
taking a house in Oxford, so as
to be near him ; but when she cautiously
sounded Hubert himself on the subject, his
first word dashed all her hopes to the ground.

The boy had long been fretting under
the tightness of the bonds by which his
aunt kept him attached to her apron-strings.
He was aware of her intentions
with regard to his future. He was to goto
the University, thence to return to her
side to begin the existence of a country
squire, an existence which Miss Durant
considered preferable to any other on earth.
He would in time become possessor of
Layton Abbey, would marry some girl
chosen for him by his aunt, would have
a large family of children, and, in short,
would " live respected and die lamented."

This ideal life seemed to Hubert to
promise nothing but utter weariness ; he
felt that it would be simply intolerable to
him. He had another and a very different
purpose in life. His intention was
to become an artist. Ever since he had

been able to bold a pencil, the greatest
pleasure he had known had been his drawing.
The margins of his old school-books
were covered with soldiers, animals, and
portraits of everybody about the place,
from his tutor down to the knife-boy.
Miss Durant had of course noticed his
facility, but it had never for one single
moment occurred to her as possible that
her nephew could wish to be an artist in
all sober earnest. When at length the
unwelcome truth was forced upon her,
her indignation and disappointment knew
no bounds.

What ! He, a Durant, fancy he was
a genius ! Thank God, their family had
never produced such a sport of nature.
Clever and cultivated men they had always
been, with the exception of Hubert's own
father ; but workmen — never ! If Hubert

loved his painting so, why, he could have
his studio at Layton Abbey, and amuse himself
with his colours in his spare moments ;
but take up art as a regular profession !
The idea was absurd ! He would ? He
must ? Then, if he persisted in his refusal
to give up this — just this one little thing
for the sake of his second mother, he
should go away for ever. No professional
artist should inherit Layton Abbey, to
profane it with the society of his vulgar
Bohemian acquaintances. If he would
not obey her, then Edward Beaumont,
who was content to be an ordinary English
gentleman, and who had more right
to the place than any Durant, should have
it at her death.

The poor old lady tried threats, coaxing,
promises, but all to no purpose. Hubert
could not give up the art which called to

him so imperiously; and, in spite of many
heart-burnings, and a good deal of genuine
sorrow at thus disappointing and wrecking
the hopes of his aunt, to whom he owed
so much, and whom he really loved and
honoured, he packed up his things and
left Layton Abbey, to return no more.

Miss Durant had withheld all supplies at
first, deeming this the most likely way of
bringing the offender to his senses ; but
when she found, on inquiry, that Hubert
was sharing the studio of a friend but
little less badly off than himself, sleeping
on the floor, and working vigorously all
day, she instructed her lawyers to write
and inform him that his aunt intended to
allow him one hundred pounds a year,
which was all he must ever expect of her,
unless he returned to Layton Abbey.

Hubert accepted, for his art's sake, and

wrote his aunt a letter, of which she took
110 notice, but which was under her pillow
when she died. From the day of Hubert's
departure until Miss Durant's death, aunt
and nephew never met again. They were
both obstinate, although Miss Durant
termed her own conduct " firmness," and
Hubert's " pigheadedness ; " and if their
hearts often yearned towards each other,
neither of them made any sign.

Miss Durant did not live very long.
She faded slowly but surely from the time
Hubert went away. Her indomitable
spirit held her up to the last ; but even
that had to give way in the end, and a
few weeks after she took to her bed, she
passed away, relentless to the end, leaving
Hubert the hundred a year, Layton Abbey
to Edward Beaumont, and twenty thousand
pounds to her niece Constance.

Constance's dismay at her aunt's will
was genuine. She had never really believed
it possible that Hubert would be
disinherited.

But after all, nurse," she said to Robson,
" it doesn't much matter whether
Aunt Sarah left the money to me or to
Hubert. If Hubert had had it, of course
I should have lived with him ; and as I've
got it, why, naturally he'll live with me.
It all comes to the same ! "

But Hubert absolutely and entirely refused
to accept one farthing of his sister's
fortune, and silenced her so decisively
when she grew importunate, that she never
ventured to refer to the subject again.

But what am I to do ? " she asked
plaintively. " I can't go and live all by
myself."

You must find some nice family with

whom you can live," said Hubert, after a
pause — " have your own rooms and all
that, you know. Unless you'd like to take
a little house, and have a companion —
some pleasant, middle-aged person, who
would take good care of you."

Oh no, thank you ! " cried Connie.
That would be horrid. Just like having
a governess again ! "

Well, think," said Hubert. " Is there
any family you know of with whom you
could live ? "

There are the Cheshams," said Connie,
after a moment's reflection.

"Ah — yes," Hubert replied, a shade of
colour mounting to his face, " the Chess
They would do very well. Only
they live in London."

I will not live anywhere but in
London," said Constance resolutely.

And then, would they care to have a
stranger in the house ? "

"I know they are very poor. Mabel
told me so herself the last time she stayed
with us."

Well, at all events we might inquire.
I am sure they would not be offended.
And I should very much like you to be
with the Cheshams," said Hubert.

So it had been arranged, and now
Mabel was looking forward to Constance's
coming.

Old Miss Durant had been very fond of
Mabel ; it was she who had given her her
first commission, namely, a portrait of
herself, intended as a gift for her nephew.
But Hubert had gone away just before its
completion, and Miss Durant had generously,
if unflatteringly, presented the

artist with her own work, remarking
that it would serve to remind her of an
unhappy old woman.

Mabel had liked Constance, although
she had really seen but very little of her,
Miss Durant having always appropriated
her niece's visitor from the day of her
arrival, somewhat to both the girls'
chagrin.

But now Constance was coming — her
own mistress, free to do as she chose with
her time and her friendship, and what
more natural than that they should be
great, great friends ? Mabel led a lonely
life between her mother and step-father.
She went out very little, for she could
not invite people to her mother's house,
and was too proud to accept invitations
which she suspected were bestowed out
of compassion. With Constance, however,

vol. 1. 3

it would be a different thing. Connie
would be glad of her company, and when
she saw how dearly Mabel would love her,
she would quickly return her affection.
Dear Constance ! Of course she would

love her. Was she not the sister of

But at this point in her reflections
Mabel frowned reprovingly, and, with a
shake of the head at herself, proceeded
with her work. Everything was in
order by the time a cab drew up at the
door, with Connie's voluminous boxes on
its top.

Mabel darted downstairs to welcome her
friend. A mass of silk and crape was
handed out by a young man who had
come in the cab with it ; a hard-featured,
more than middle-aged woman followed.
The silk and crape fell on Mabel's neck,
embracing her so warmly as to astonish

her, prepared as she was to be affectionate.


How do you do ? " said the young
man, coming into the hall and catching
Mabel's eye over his sister's head, which
was reclining on her friend's shoulder.

Mabel's eyes twinkled with irrepressible
humour as she noted the impatient look
he gave his effusive sister's back. Almost
as if she had felt his displeasure, Connie
straightened herself, and with a little
assumption of dignity, which very nearly
made Mabel laugh outright, said —

Have you paid the cabman, Hubert ? "

That's all right, Miss Constance,"
said Eobson abruptly, coming up laden
with shawls ; while a dull flush mounted
to Hubert's forehead as he reflected that,
it being nearly quarter day, his funds
were low, and that the sum of half a

crown, at present residing in solitary
grandeur in his waistcoat-pocket, would
hardly have sufficed to pay the long cab-fare
from the station.

Only Mabel saw, and thought she
understood. Constance, after a weary
look round the little hall, said plaintively
—

Shall we go upstairs ? "

Yes," said Mabel ; and Constance instantly
slipped her arm round her waist.

Mabel yielded to the embrace. But as
they went upstairs, which they were
forced to do crab-fashion, owing to narrowness
of space and Constance's affection,
she looked back, aud said kindly to
Hubert —

Won't you come up and have a cup
of tea ? "

Hubert, after a dubious glance at his

muddy boots, assented, and followed the
girls up to the drawing-room, where they
found Mr. and Mrs. Chesbam ; the latter
all nervous flutter and smiles, and the
former in a condition of outraged virtue at
having to receive a " lodger."

Constance instantly suffered herself to
be cooed over and caressed by Mrs.
Chesbam in a manner which would have
driven Mabel herself distracted, but which
was exactly what gentle, clinging Connie
had always longed for. Mr. Chesham,
after standing on the hearth rug in as
aggressive a position as he could possibly
assume, intended to be significant of the
fact that he was a gentleman, and not in
the least responsible for any vagaries of
his wife's and step-daughter's, walked
solemnly out of the room without bestowing
a glance upon Hubert, whom he

understood to be exceedingly poor, and
therefore a fit subject for insult.

Mabel gave the young man a cup of
tea and a kind look, which called up a
brighter expression upon his own somewhat
pale and worn face.

"Are you working very hard just
now ? " she asked, sitting down near him.

Not very," he answered rather dejectedly.
" I have the studio full of
things already."

Are you going to exhibit this year ? "

I am going to send in, if that's what
you mean," he returned almost rudely.
Of course I shall have the pleasure of
seeing my work back again before long."

Mabel was silent for a moment ; then
she said softly —

Do you know, I am very sorry to see
you like this. It is not like you. You

are generally so brave — and — you are so
young."

Hubert turned his head away, and
seemed to be intently studying the pattern
of the carpet. Then he suddenly looked
straight at her and said —

Yes ; I am ashamed of myself for
speaking like that. Somehow, I always
manage to say something you don't like.
You see " — with a shamefaced little laugh
■" you are so sympathetic ; one never
thinks of saying the conventional thing
to you."

I don't want you " began Mabel

eagerly ; when Connie's voice broke in —

Oh, Mabel, do persuade Hubert to let
us come and see his studio. I have
always so longed to see one ; and what's
the good of having an artist brother if
one can't profit by his studio ? ,!

Mabel, who had a shrewd idea about
Hubert's studio, looked at him without
speaking ; but, rather to her surprise, he
agreed at once, and fixed an afternoon in
the following week for them to come.

Mabel got no word with him alone after
that ; but before he went away he gave
her a look, and a warn clasp of the hand,
which seemed to thank her for the comfort
she wanted, but thought she had not
been able, to give him.

AN INVITATION.

Come in."

Hubert Durant uttered the words somewhat
impatiently, without turning his head
round from his work, as if the intruder,
whoever he might be, could have no interest
for him.

When the door had opened and closed
gently, however, he did condescend to casta
glance behind him, and, with an exclamation
of surprise, flung down his palette and
brushes, and turned to greet his visitor, a
man quite twenty years his senior.

I beg your pardon. I had no idea
it was you," he said, with a somewhat
nervous look towards his easel.

Hard at work ? '" observed the newcomer
in a deep voice — a voice which
women were wont to characterize as
beautiful."

Yes — an order, for once in a way ! '
said Hubert, with a contemptuous laugh.

Copy of a portrait — family picture, I
suppose ? "

Exactly. Isn't it astonishing that anyone
should want a duplicate of such a
monstrosity ! "

Hem, hem ! " said his visitor vaguely ;
and then, turning away from the easel and
scrutinizing the studio with eyes which
seemed to have the power of observing
everything at once, he continued, " What
I wanted was the address of young Walker.

You remember, you said the other evening
you would send it me ; but as I was passing
your door I thought I would look in and
save you the trouble."

Hubert went to his desk and began
rummaging among a hopeless-looking mass
of papers, while Stephen Baring, Royal
Academician, threw himself into the only
arm-chair, with the remark, " No objection
to smoke, I suppose ? "

Hubert happened to have a particular
objection that afternoon ; but reflecting: that
it was early yet, and that he could open
the window after his visitor had gone, he
replied in the negative, and Mr. Baring,
producing a very black pipe from his pocket,
proceeded to light it.

As he sat there, with one leg lazily
thrown over the arm of the chair, he made
a decidedly impressive picture.

Stephen Baring was a man whom it
would have been impossible to overlook ina
room full of people. There was something
about him which arrested the eye at
once, and made one ask, " Alio is that ? "
He had no special beauty of feature to recommend
him, although there were women,
and plenty of them, who thought his high,
rather narrow forehead, finely chiselled
nose, large melancholy dark-brown eyes,
and his jet-black hair and short pointed
beard, worthy of an Apollo, if not of Jove
himself. His mouth was hidden beneath
a thick moustache, but he had a trick of
often putting up his hand to it as if to
conceal its expression. It was, perhaps,
the lofty carriage of his head, and a
peculiar look of intensity in his eyes,
which commanded attention. There was
about him the quiet dignity of power, the

presence of genius which felt and understood
itself.

You young men allow yourselves luxuries
! " he said presently, in a half-quizzical
tone.

Luxuries ! " repeated Hubert, wondering
if his distinguished visitor were making
game of him.

Flowers — and tea ! " went on Baring,
waving his pipe towards a bunch of late
roses and a daintily arranged tea-tray
which decorated the rickety table.

Oh, those ! " said Hubert. " I am
expecting — my sister."

Baring puffed at his pipe and said carelessly,
" Didn't know you had a sister."

Hubert told him a little about Constance,
and the circumstances under which she
had come to London ; to all of which the
artist listened or appeared to listen attentively.

The narrative was scarcely ended
when there were steps outside, and a hesitating
knock at the door.

Already ! " exclaimed Hubert, looking
ruefully at the wreaths of smoke which
circled around his visitor's head.

May we come in ? v asked Constance's
childish voice.

Hubert promptly sprang to open the
door, and his sister, Mabel, and Mrs.
Chesham, appeared.

There was a gentle exclamation of " By
Jove ! " and the next moment Mr. Baring
was being introduced to the three ladies.

Constance was slightly disconcerted at
first at the sight of a stranger, but soon
recovered herself, and went trotting about
the room, keeping up a little babble of
wondering remarks.

What a funny place ! Are all studios

like this ? So small, and stuffy, and — and
smoky ! Where are the armour, and
tapestry, and all the other things there
always are in studios that one reads
about ? "

You must get Mr. Baring to invite
you to his studio if you want to see a really
beautiful one," said Hubert ; while Mabel
looked round the shabby room, which,
with its attempt at order and comfort,
almost brought the tears to her eyes.

Constance came across to Mr. Baring,
and ]looked at him pathetically. " Will
you invite us to your studio ? " she said.

My dear child ! ' exclaimed Mrs.
Chesham.

Mabel and Hubert laughed outright.

But Mr. Baring replied in his deep tones,
With the very greatest pleasure."

Constance's brother mustn't be thin-skinned

! " observed Hubert aside to Mabel,
who replied —

No, indeed. But she is only a child,
you know ; she has not the least idea that
anything she says is not kind."

Hubert smiled.

Oh, I never think of blaming her.
Connie has always had carte blanche to
walk roughshod over my feelings. It is
wonderful, though, how heavily those
pretty little feet of hers can tread sometimes."


She has been out so little, too. Everything
seems strange to her, and she is
very excitable."

"She always was," replied Hubert. "Asa
child she used to go into a perfect fever
whenever she had set her heart on a
thing. I believe she used generally to
get all she wanted, because Robson said

she would be ill if she didn't have her
own way."

Robson seems immensely attached to
here's

She is. I am sure she would do anything
for Connie. As it is, I expect
Connie owes her her life two or three
times over. Robson nursed her through
all her illnesses with the most utter devotion."


Hubert," here called Mrs. Chesham,
the kettle is boiling, but I see no tea-caddy."


He probably forgets ever to put any
tea in the teapot, and drinks hot water
under the impression that tea is not what
it used to be," said Constance saucily.

Hubert produced the tea-caddy promptly,
however, and Mrs. Chesham made the tea,
talking to him the while in her soft, rather

VOL. 1.

monotonous way. Mabel's mother had
been quite enjoying herself during the last
few days. Now that she had undertaken
to chaperon Constance, she had perforce
spent more time out of Mr. Chesham's
study, or sick-room, as he himself preferred
to call it, than she had done for years past,
and the change was doing her good.
There was a kind of guilty pleasure in
being so amused and interested away from
George, which served to give extra zest
to the enjoyment of what she feared would
soon have to come to an end.

George was already getting injured and
fractious, and his wife expected him everyday
to put his veto on her new manner of
life. She tried to make up for her absences
by extra attention to his little fads
and fancies. He had not needed to speak
twice about his newspaper. He could read

it all day and all night now if he chose.
As a matter of fact, he had never been
observed to take it up after ten o'clock in
the morning, an hour before that at which
the paper-boy who had so weighed on his
mind had been wont to come. The three-volume
novels which he considered a necessity
of his existence were provided in
stacks ; his cigars had become of an even
superior quality ; and he was at liberty to
try every patent medicine and lozenge
advertised. By these cunning measures
Mrs. Chesham hoped to allay, or at least
defer, the explosion which her experience
of her lord told her was inevitable, and
which, she feebly felt, would carry all
before it, as it had done so many times
already. While her holiday lasted, however,
she meant to enjoy it to the utmost,
and threw herself into all the girls' plans

as eagerly as if she had been twenty
years old again.

Mabel was glad to see her mother so
cheered and bright. It was many years since
she had heard her laugh as merrily as she
often laughed now. It was Constance
who had effected this welcome change, and
Constance became, therefore, of supreme
importance in Mabel's eyes. She, and
Robson no less, must be made to feel
thoroughly comfortable, and to this end
Mabel worked with all her might. She
had quickly conquered Robson, who knew
a " nice young lady " when she saw one.
Constance had been fond of her before, and,
though perhaps just a little bit afraid of
her, was still fonder now ; and Mabel, for
the above and other reasons besides, would
have patiently borne with twice Connie's
lightness and unconscious selfishness. She

took a sort of motherly pride in the girl's
innocent loveliness, feeling an immense
pity for her lonely condition, a condition
for which Constance, of all people, was so
eminently unfit.

Connie did indeed look exquisitely pretty,
as she sat toying with her tea — a faint-bloom
of excitement on her delicately-rounded
cheek, her childish forget-me-not
eyes shining, and her rosy mouth chattering
away as hard as it would go, uttering
a wonderful mixture of sense and nonsense,
which all sounded very sparkling and
amusing somehow, and could certainly be
listened to without any effort.

And yet, although her beauty seemed to
light up the whole room, and was enough
to attract any artist's admiration, it was
not upon her that Stephen Baring's eyes
were fixed. He stood upon the hearthrug,

listening ostensibly to Connie's babble,
even putting in a word or two now and
then ; but Lis gaze was rivetted on Mabel's
face, and had been so ever since she had
entered the room.

Painters are privileged people — painters
who have made their way, at least. A
beautiful woman's face is not her own
property, in their opinion. If it were possible,
they would exact the rendering up
of each such face as sternly as ever Shylock
demanded his pound of flesh. Beautiful
lines and tints belong to an artist by right
they are the things that are Caesar's.
In olden times painters sued humbly at a
lady's knee the favour of immortalizing
her features ; in modern days the lady
knows no peace until she has persuaded the
artist to " let her sit."

Mr. Baring was accustomed to this latter

proceeding. He had been positively deluged,
since he became famous, by letters
from women asking to be allowed to sit
for his next picture, modestly stating that
they were considered the very image of
his last Madonna. Mothers continually
brought their daughters to the studio —
girls who rolled their eyes and tousled
their hair for the artist's benefit, hoping
that he would confer notoriety upon them
by giving them at least a corner in some
large composition. Mr. Baring had no
lack of models ; there was always a string
of damsels of many degrees of rank and
standing who were more than ready to sit
quieter under his intent eyes than they
had ever done in their lives before.

This sort of thing spoils a man ; it
blunts his sense of the bloom and delicacy
of womanhood, and, especially if he have

no very keen sense of chivalry to start
with, causes him to look upon the whole
sex as one vast slave-market from which
he has only to choose.

Mr. Baring adored his art; he worshipped
a beautiful face as one of the principal
accessories to that art ; he felt the keenest,
most enraptured delight at the sight of the
lovely curves and soft lights and shadows
that go to make up a woman's beauty ; he
longed, with a desire almost painful in its
intensity, to transfer them to his canvas, to
make them his, to see them grow and
stand out in even still greater perfection of
form, the work of that hand whose creative
power seemed sometimes nearly superhuman.


So, as Mabel's beauty happened to be
of exactly the kind which most fascinated
the artist, he made no scruple of feasting

his eyes upon it, serenely indifferent
whether his steady gaze might be acceptable
to its recipient or not.

Meanwhile Mabel herself, careless both
of the chatter of the others and of Mr.
Baring's scrutiny, had gone off into a
brown study. This was a very common
habit of hers, and one which her stepfather
was never tired of condemning as
ill-bred and selfish. The delinquent herself
was fully alive to its enormity, and
had made really sincere efforts to break
herself of it, but as yet without much
success.

When Hubert had gone over to Mrs.
Chesham's side, Mabel's attention had first
been caught by the half-finished canvas
on the easel, at which he had been working
when interrupted by Baring. It was,
as he had told his visitor, a copy of a

family portrait. The original stood close
by, and, although every allowance forage
and dirt were made, contrasted but
unfavourably with the copy. It was a
dull, uninteresting face enough ; but it was
beginning to stand, in all its uncompromising
plainness, well out from the background,
and, uncongenial work though it
must have been, there was no trace of
hurry or of carelessness in the execution.

I am sure — certain that he has
genius ! " Mabel thought, " if only he will
have the courage and patience that is a
part of genius. Why will he be so impatient,
and expect to succeed at once ?
Other men have had to struggle up.
There is Mr. Baring himself, who, they say,
very nearly starved when he was quite
a young man, and look w T here he is now."

Involuntarily her reflections led her to

glance at Mr. Baring, and she met his
direct gaze with a suddenness which
seemed to send a little shock through
her. Although hitherto she had known
him only by his work and his reputation,
he had always been rather a hero to
her. His name was constantly in the
mouths of her fellow art-students, his
pictures had long been a source of wonderment
and delight to her ; and now
that she met him in the flesh, his appearance
interested and attracted her. She
felt that she was in the presence of a
master-mind, and, as had always been
a little her way from childhood, was inclined
to fall down and worship.

Baring crossed over to where she was
sitting as soon as she had looked at him.
He was all eagerness now to get her to
sit to him.

Are you fond of pictures ? " he asked,
as a beginning.

Miss Moore paints very well herself,"
here put in Hubert, as he brought Mabel
a cup of tea.

Oh no, indeed ! " said Mabel hurriedly,
blushing up to the roots of her hair.

Mr. Baring's lip curled a little beneath
his moustache. He was rather tired of
hearing about women's painting.

Then you are one of us ? " he said,
with a little laugh.

It is absurd to mention my work at
all," said Mabel earnestly. " I should like
to paint well, but I have had very little
opportunity for study. Don't you think
Mr. Durant's work very promising ? " she
added, anxious to turn the conversation,
and desirous of eliciting an opinion from
so eminent a judge.

Hem ! " answered Baring, with a careless
glance at the easel. " Yes ; not bad —
not bad at all. He may do decently in
about twenty years' time."

u Twenty years ! " repeated Mabel, aghast.

Baring was watching every change of
expression as it flitted across her mobile
features. He kept his eyes fixed on her
face as he replied —

I consider that it takes quite twenty
years to make an artist. But if you think
that such a very enormous time, we will
say fifteen."

And he is so impatient already ! "
Mabel said, half to herself.

Ah, yes ; I dare say ! ' answered
Baring, with another of his deep mirthless
laughs. " That is what all these
young fellows are. They want to begin
where we leave off."

But you " said Mabel, with a

swift look at him, but broke off with
another blush.

You were going to say I didn't wait
twenty years ! You are mistaken. I
began at sixteen — I am forty-three now,
and my name has been practically made
only since the last five or six years. All
the rest of the time I worked without
much encouragement."

It must have been very difficult to
persevere sometimes," said Mabel softly.

Baring's eyes kindled.

I could have done nothing else," he
said, and waited a moment ; then added
abruptly, " Will you do me a favour,
Miss Moore ? "

Mabel raised her eyes to his questioningly.


I want you to sit to me — will you ? "

The eyes fell at once ; but after a
minute they looked up again, and Mabel
said simply —

I shall be very pleased to — if mother
does not object."

u Oh, she won't object," said Mr. Baring
easily, thinking of the many mothers
who would have jumped at such a
proposal.

Mabel drew her eyebrows together with
a quick little frown. Mr. Baring took
too much for granted, even for a genius.

I don't know ; I will ask her," she
said, the least bit stiffly.

Mr. Baring felt he had offended ; how,
he had no idea.

I thought young ladies did as they
pleased nowadays, and never asked their
mothers anything," he remarked.

The line between Mabel's eyebrows grew

more marked. Mr. Baring wondered what
on earth he could have said to make the
girl cross. Somewhat to the relief of both
of them, Mrs. Chesham got up to go.
George and his dinner-pill were on her
mind.

Connie came fluttering over to Mabel
with a " Good-bye, Mr. Baring. Mind
you don't forget about our visit to your
studio ! "

I am going too," said Mr. Baring.
Do you live near here ? "

Not very far," replied Connie. " We
can all go together. Hubert is coming
to dine with us, and be sociable for once
in a way."

Mr. Baring wished they would ask him
to dinner too ; but although Connie looked
imploringly at Mrs. Chesham, the latter did
not ap] i to understand, and went downstairs,

escorted by Hubert, Mabel following
close behind.

When they reached the street, Hubert
and Mabel went one to either side of Mrs.
Chesham, and Connie walked on just in
front with Mr. Baring.

I believe you are staying with Mrs.
Chesham ? " said the artist.

Yes, I live with them. I have only
just come," answered Connie, perfectly
ready to be communicative. "I used to
live with my aunt, in the country. So did
Hubert ; only he was silly enough to go
and insist upon becoming a ridiculous artist.
Oh, I beg your pardon ; I forgot you
painted too. But really it was absurd of
him. And then Aunt Sarah died, and,
wicked old thing ! left me twenty thousand
pounds, and Hubert just a pitiful hundred
a year. Wasn't it horrid of her ? "

VOL. I. 5

To leave you twenty thousand pounds ?"'
asked Mr. Baring, with a smile, looking
down with fresh interest at the lovely face
beside him.

No, of course not ! " Connie answered,
with her light ripple of laughter ; " but to
leave Hubert nothing to speak of."

I should have been very glad of a
hundred a year at his age," Mr. Baring-said
grimly.

Oh, I dare say ; but then perhaps
you " Connie stopped.

Were not brought up to a dress-coat
and six-inch high collar ! " finished Mr.
Baring. " No, I wasn't."

I wasn't going to say that ! ' ; cried
Connie, indignantly. " No one can say
that Hubert makes himself ridiculous like
that ! "

I never said he did — but I think he

ought to be very grateful that he has anything
to depend upon at all. And now let
us arrange about your visit to me. When
would you best like to come ? "

I don't know. Any day that will suit
you and Mrs. Chesham."

Shall we say Friday, then ? And
when you have once seen the studio, I
hope you will come very often."

Oh, thank you !" murmured Constance.

People like you were meant to inhabit
studios," said Mr. Baring.

Like me ? Why ? " asked Connie,
naively.

Because — because you are just what an
artist likes to look at."

Oh!"

Yes — has no artist ever asked you to
sit to him ? "

I don't know any artists — any real

artists," said Connie ; " for, of course, I
don't count Hubert. I have sat to him
lots of times, and very dull and tiresome
I found it."

I am sorry you don't like sitting."

Not to Hubert. But then one's brother
is always tiresome — don't you think
so?"

Would you mind sitting to me ? " asked
Mr. Baring.

Constance's sapphire eyes met his with
a delighted look in them.

To you ? Oh no, of course not ! Do
you mean you will really put me in a
picture ? A picture that will be exhibited ?"

A real picture that will really be
exhibited," answered the artist, passing his
hand over his moustache.

Oh, what fun ! Wait ; I must tell the
others ! ' And before her companion had

time to utter a word, she had turned back
and was announcing joyfully —

Just think ! Mr. Baring has asked me
to sit to him ! And he is going to put
poor little Me into a real picture ! '

Her three elders received the news each
in a different way. Hubert was pleased
that Mr. Baring should admire his sister ;
Mrs. Chesham wondered nervously whether
George would quite approve ; and Mabel
nearly laughed as she saw Connie's looks
of delight, and reflected how very unlike
her friend's her own reception of a similar
honour had been.

As Mr. Baring shook hands with hera
minute later, he looked straight into her
eves with a gleam of cynical amusement
in his own. He thought that she
was really as eager to sit as Connie, and
that, by asking Connie, and taking no

THE ACADEMICIAN.

further notice of her, he would arouse a
feeling of pique, which would soon bring
her to do as he asked. Mr. Baring was
a very clever artist, but one needs to
be something more before one can read
correctly the signs of a woman's face.

CONTRASTS.

After saying good-bye to Mrs. Chesham,
and fixing the Friday following for her
visit to the studio with the girls, Mr.
Baring made his way quietly home. It
was a somewhat long distance to his house,
but he was a capital walker, and preferred
his own feet to any more costly mode of
travelling. His house, built by himself
within the last six years of his prosperity,
stood in a fashionable quarter for artists,
and was one of the handsomest among
many handsome others. Its walls were

of the true old red brick, which seems
to have so completely given way, in these
latter days, to a much brighter and less
restful colour. Mr. Baring had taken
immense trouble to procure these dark-red
bricks, which were the envy of his neighbours
and the delight of his own eye.
Nor did the inside of the walls belie the
comfortable look of their exterior. Everything
that modern art and skill, combined
with an instinctive sense of fitness, could
furnish forth, was there. The house was
a show place, and had done no little for
its master's reputation and popularity.
Nothing succeeds like success ; and since
Mr. Baring, by dint of sheer hard work
and real genius, had pushed his way to
the front, he had become a very great
personage indeed.

It came to be the fashion for " every one

who was anybody " to sit to Mr. Baring.
It was " the thing " to have a Baring — a
brevet mark of wealth and discrimination.
The longer prices the Academician asked,
the more eager people were to pay them.
Rich merchants, not to be outdone by their
betters, brought all the glories of their
smug shaven faces and protuberant waistcoats,
their homely wives, and simpering
daughters, to be painted by Baring. Bishops
in their lawn ; scarred veterans ; popular
actors and actresses — all thronged to the
studio, ready to pay for the idealizing of
their countenances sums that they would
have grudged for any other purpose in
the world.

Among the softer half of these visitors
were many who would only too willingly
have taken up their abode for good in the
red-brick house. It was a thousand pities.

every one agreed, that Mr. Baring did
not marry. His house was no doubt exceedingly
pretty and most artistic, but
still it lacked those last touches which
only feminine fingers can give. Several
mammas had confided to Mr. Baring — in
the very strictest secrecy, of course — that
their daughters were intended by nature
for an artist's wife ; one Lady Mary was
even supposed to have intimated to him
that she herself was ready to look with
favourable eyes upon him ; but Mr. Baring
remained imperturbably indifferent to
hints and proposals alike. A wife is an
expensive luxury in modern times, and
Mr. Baring was frugal in his tastes.

So no light footstep tripped over the
mosaic pavement hall to meet him ashe
put his latch-key in the door. A footstep,
very much the reverse of light,

belonging to an old lady of particularly
unprepossessing exterior, approached from
a side door, and a voice, which resembled
nothing so much as the creaking of a long
unsoiled hinge, inquired whether he would
have supper up.

"Yes; and look sharp too, for I'm
hungry," replied Baring, drawing off his
boots, and taking a pair of old slippers,
very much trodden down at heel, from
a thirteenth-century cabinet which stood
on one side of the square hall.

You hadn't need to be, for you ate
a good dinner enough ! " grumbled the
old dame as she turned away.

So I did," muttered Baring, pushing
open his studio door, and going in to
give a paternal look at the work he had
been doing before he went out.

He was painting a Saint Cecilia fora

Roman Catholic chapel belonging to
some great people ; the picture was less
than half finished, but already bore
evidences of the master hand to which it
would presently owe a beautiful existence.
There was a certain mystic beauty about
the saintly maiden's face, raised heavenward,
as her fingers wandered over the
keys of the organ at which she was
sitting ; her rapt, dreamy eyes looking as
though they had caught a glimpse of the
spirit-world which opens ever at the
sound of music. Above and behind the
player's head, hovered the ethereal forms
of little angels, lured from their perfect
bliss by strains even more exquisite than
those of heavenly choirs.

The painter gazed long and scrutinizingly
at his work. He had no critic so
uncompromisingly severe as himself.

The old lady made her unlovely apparition
at the door, and had to speak twice
before she could rouse his attention.
Then, carefully turning down the sunburnt,
which lighted his studio with a
brilliancy almost, if not quite, equal to
daylight, he followed her into the diningroom,
a large apartment, furnished in
sumptuous but good taste, and lighted by
one solitary candle.

Here, on a coarse and crumpled cloth,
spread over one end of the beautifully
carved oak table, was displayed a meagre
meal — a scraggy bone, a piece of stony-looking
cheese, a half-cut loaf of antediluvian
appearance, and a common jug
holding a pint of beer. The knives and
forks were bent and old ; the salt-cellar
was cracked, and contained but a pinch
of dingy-looking salt ; and the tumblers

by the side of the plates were of the very
commonest glass. Altogether, hardly a
meal for the prince of painters, as Mr.
Baring had been designated by a friendly
critic only a day or two before.

The artist himself, however, did not
appear to find anything amiss. He sat
down, and began searching the scraggy
bone with a perseverance worthy of a
better cause, while the old woman took
her seat at one side of the table, and made
a running comment on his occupation.

There — a little more to the right,
now ! There's a lovely bit, fit for a king !
What a shame that butchers' meat should
be so dear, when men must eat so much
of it ! Now, I can go from morning till
night with nothing but bread-and-cheese
and a drop of tea."

Yes," said Mr. Baring, with a chuckle ;

it was a good day for my pocket when
you came to live with me — eh, old girl ? "

"Ah!" returned the old woman proudly,
with a complacent glance at the table,
you wouldn't have got a fashionable
wife to do for you as well as your own
mother's sister, would you ? "

No, indeed," said Baring, labouring at
the ancient loaf with a very blunt knife.
u I don't know what I should do without
you, Aunt Bridget."

It was evidently not from the female
side of the house that Mr. Baring had
inherited his distinguished looks. Old
Mrs. Simes was about as ugly as an old
woman can be ; the ugliness of her soul
was stamped upon every one of the features
which even a kindly heart could
hardly have rendered less than plain. She
was dressed in a faded and rusty black

gown, and looked more like a charwoman
than the presiding goddess of her
nephew's lovely house.

She refused to share the scrapings of
the mutton-bone, contenting herself with
a very meagre helping of bread-and-cheese,
which she consumed ruminatively, making
each mouthful a sort of event in itself, and
apparently endeavouring to ascertain how
small a crumb of cheese could be induced
to taste through a piece of bread ten or
twelve times its superior in size.

Yery little conversation passed between
the artist and his aunt. Each seemed
absorbed in thought. Baring was thinking
of his Saint Cecilia, and the dry
meat which he mechanically put into his
mouth might have been the most dainty
of food, for aught he knew. Somehow his
Cecilia had taken to herself a new face,

however — a face with far more piquant
features than saints are usually allowed to
possess. The altering of a line here and
there, though, would soon put that to
rights ; the outline a little more oval, the
eyes more pensive, the mouth not turned
up quite so much at the corners. What
a different face from Maria's, the Italian
model from whom he had been painting
his Cecilia, and who, although she was the
best he could get, was very far from satisfactory.
It was difficult to get Maria to
pose for a saint ; her features were ordinary,
and her eyes and mouth eminently
stupid. He had done wonders with her,
and in the morning had gone out fairly
satisfied with his work ; but now that
other face had come to haunt him, and
the thought of Maria filled him with
disgust.
vol. i. 6

He finished his meal quickly and returned
to the studio, where he spent an
hour in fruitlessly endeavouring to reproduce
Mabel's face. Fruitlessly ; for, great
painter though he was, he could not draw
from memory. He could idealize, but he
could not draw his ideal. He gave up the
attempt at last in despair, and sat before
his picture, gloomily gazing at it, and
contrasting the face, which to most people
would have seemed perfect enough, with
that one which his artist's imagination invested
with a beauty far transcending any
which had been bestowed upon it by
Nature. The longer he thought of it, the
more lovely it became, until his hunger to
see it again, to create it himself, grew
almost insupportable. He pushed back
his chair and walked up and down the
long studio, his eyes burning with a

strange feverish light, his hands clasped
tight behind his back.

Old Mrs. Simes had been in bed and
asleep for hours ; the one hard-worked
servant had almost begun to wake to the
consciousness that it was time to get up
again, before Mr. Baring went to his room.
The expression on his features as he slowly
mounted the stairs might have been that
of some general to whom the morrow
would bring a great battle which he meant
to win — the head thrown back, the eyes
full of concentrated energy and will, the
mouth set and firm. The fever of his
dream had burned itself out, the indomitable
resolution and purpose of his genius
remained.

Mr. Baring's was not the only studio
haunted by Mabel's face that night.
About the same time that the fashionable

artist sat in despair before his unsatisfactory
Saint Cecilia, Hubert Durant
placed himself, pencil in hand, before his
easel. He shut his eyes for a few
moments, during which the lines of his
somewhat stern young face seemed to
soften and relax. Then, with a few rapid
and sure touches, he accomplished what
Stephen Baring would have given a great
deal to be able to do. From the canvas
sprang forth Mabel Moore's face — her
living, human face, with no etherealized
saint's expression on it, but with her
own inimitable look, in which tender,
deep feeling, fun, capability of satire,
strength of will, and womanly gentleness,
all combined to form a whole in which
perfection of feature gave way to beauty
of expression. The owner of that face
would not pass through life leaving no

trace to mark her footsteps ; she would
exercise some influence on those about her,
would perhaps give more than it would
ever be her lot to receive, would inspire
rather than achieve, but strong and good
she would be always. No saint with taper,
bloodless fingers, sluggishly beating heart
purified, for its own selfish sake, of all
earthly affections, with insipid, perfect
features awaking only at the strains of
heavenly music, but a living flesh and
blood woman, with strength to rule herself,
and to fight for those dear to her.

Hubert made the eyes of the woman he
loved look straight into his, instead of
directing their gaze upward. So they had
looked into his, with frank and solicitous
affection, only that afternoon. No word
of love had ever passed between the two,
but each knew that the other loved and

was beloved. The time had not come yet
for speech ; the man would have been
ashamed to offer nothing but his heart,
and the girl's lips were closed by reason
of her sex. But Hubert, in his better
moments, such as these, when his good
angel came to chase away the gloom that
so often surrounded him, knew that he was
master of Mabel's life and soul, and that it
depended upon him alone, not to win her —
that was done — but to show himself worthy
of his prize, so that he might claim it and
wear it close to his heart for ever.

IN THE STUDIO.

Constance found living in London very
much more to her taste than her former
life had been. She had always been bored
and dissatisfied in the country. Green
fields and trees were dumb to her, or only
spoke of monotony and dulness. She
hated long walks, disliked getting her
boots dirty, was frightened of insects,
cared little for lawn-tennis, and, above all,
detested visiting the poor. Perhaps Miss
Durant, whose mind had always been
wrapped up in Hubert, his requirements,

and his perfections, had not given as much
thought as she might to make the girl's
existence a really happy one. She herself
had so many tastes and occupations, all
essentially belonging to a country life,
that it never occurred to her that any one
could want more than Constance already
had. She had no idea that her niece felt
aggrieved as each spring came round, and
the London season's doings and sayings
took up the greater part of the newspapers.
She had never yearned to leave her lovely
country home, just when it was in full
beauty, for a stuffy town house, with endless
balls, dinner-parties, and theatre-going
in perspective. Hubert had never asked
for a season in London — why should
Connie ?

Constance was not on sufficiently cordial
terms with her aunt to confide to her her

aspirations and longings, but this fact did
not prevent their existence. She was born
to be a town, not a country mouse ; and
when at last her dream came true, and she
might live in London all the year round,
if she chose, she was almost beside herself
with joy.

True, she was obliged to content herself
with society not quite up to the level of
her country dreams. The Cheshams had
not been well off enough to have much
acquaintance among the people whose
names figure conspicuously in the society
papers ; their friends belonged mostly to
the literary and artistic world. Constance
was not really socially ambitious, however;
she found Mabel's friends very much more
amusing than the members of the county
families who had exchanged stiff periodical
visits with Miss Durant. She, as well

as Hubert, had probably inherited a little
of the Bohemian blood which had proved
so disastrous to her father, and the source
of which had been such an resolvable problem
to old Miss Durant. So, as she was
not difficult to please, she found plenty of
amusement, and received attention enough
to gratify even her vanity ; for twenty
thousand pounds are magnetic, especially
when coupled with such a pretty face as
Connie's.

Mrs. Chesham, who had secretly been
exceedingly anxious lest George should
find the presence of the stranger within
his gates more than his sensitive nerves
could bear, was now relieved of her apprehensions.
George was not only long-suffering
— he was positively amiable.
Whether it was the lustre of her wealth
which lent an additional glow to Connie's

already golden hair, or the helplessness of
her forlorn, orphaned condition that appealed
to his heart, one thing was soon
evident — George was able to see in Miss
Durant all those perfections the absence of
which he had so often, and so audibly,
regretted, in his step-daughter.

Constance possessed all the feminine
softness of manner which, when exhibited
in a woman not a man's own wife or
daughter, appeals so strongly to his chivalrous
feeling. She never seemed to think
that her own judgment on all sorts of
matters was likely to be every whit as
good as, if not superior to, his masculine

and, therefore, naturally weightier and
more clear-headed opinion; nor, at the same
time, did she ever appear to consider that
a Man was a species of hardy animal,
whose back should be strong enough to

bear any burden, and who should be
always attending to other people, while
excluded from any kind of consideration
himself. She never sat for twenty minutes,
apparently giving that careful attention
to a few remarks on indigestion, or weak
nerves, which a sufferer like himself might
be supposed to claim as a natural right,
and then started up with some absurd
remark which clearly proved that his discourse
might as well have been addressed
to empty air. Constance was never
brusque ; her upper lip never exhibited a
disagreeable tendency to curl upwards at
the corners ; she was never enthusiastic, as
some people called their noisy ill-breeding ;
she did not pretend to any accomplishments
; she was what he had always
longed to see his step-daughter — a simple,
affectionate, gentle English maiden.

The comparisons which, with his usual
delicacy of feeling where others were concerned,
he did not fail to draw, hurt little
Mrs. Chesham, accustomed as she was to
hear her beloved daughter continually
decried ; but Mabel herself only laughed
at them. She knew her step-father
thoroughly, and now that she had attained
to years of comparative discretion and
independence, could afford to see the humorous
side of his complaints, so long as
they were directed against herself, and
not against her mother.

Connie's advent had brought too much
ease of purse, and consequently of mind,
to Mabel's mother for Mabel to become
jealous of her, even had there been the
least room for so contemptible a feeling
in Mabel's mind. To watch the lines
relax which years of large bills and scanty

means had brought upon her mother's
forehead and about her mouth ; to note the
absence of the nervous start at each ring
at the front door, which might mean a fresh
bill or an importunate creditor ; to see her
mother, at sight of whose cares and martyrdom
she had writhed in such ineffectual
and bitter anger, getting back some of her
old lightness of heart, almost blossoming
out into a second spring; — for these things
Mabel would have endured much, a very
great deal more than any petty annoyance
Mr. Chesham's puerile cackling could
inflict.

She cherished Constance, for these reasons,
as the apple of her eye, doing all she
could possibly think of or invent to make
the house and her new life pleasant to her.
When her step-father, irritated at his
wife's going out so often with the two

girls, interfered, and insisted that she
should attend to her " home duties," Mabel,
in a fright lest Constance should find staying
in the house dull, persuaded her
mother that they could quite well go out
together without any chaperon.

I know girls didn't do it when you
were young, mother," she said in answer
to Mrs. Chesham's feeble expostulations.
But all that is changed now ; and, besides,
I look much older than Constance, and
quite staid and steady. I'll wear blue
spectacles, and a poke bonnet, and long
cotton gloves, if you like ; but don't stop
Connie's going out, for it's just all she
lives for."

Mrs. Chesham sighed, but gave way as
usual ; and the girls went about together,
after the fashion of sensible young women
nowadays, who do a great many things

their grandmothers would have screamed
at, although those estimable ladies, if weare
to believe — not their own, but other
people's records — were scarcely as perfect
as they would have us suppose.

Mabel's mother had, however, apart from
her own great wish to see Mr. Baring's
studio, a very strong feeling that it would
not be " proper " for the girls to go there
unescorted ; and when the Friday for which
their visit had been fixed arrived, she communicated
her opinion on the subject to
her daughter.

Yes, but he'll never let you come," said
Mabel, blankly.

If we could contrive to make him very,
very comfortable," suggested Mrs. Chesham,
wistfully, " he might feel able to
spare me."

Let me manage it, mother ; I'm sure I
can."

Mabel spent the morning in ordering a
luncheon peculiarly destined to appeal to
the invalid's gastronomic tastes, and in
going to the library, there to pick out and
bring home an enticing looking volume of
a highly sensational type. She cautioned
her mother, so that Mrs. Chesham might
not, as she had often before done, counteract
all her diplomacy through ignorance of its
intention ; and having thus, like an arch-conspirator,
laid her train, she came down
to luncheon with the most innocent face
possible.

Mr. Chesham dragged himself into the
dining-room with a portentous frown upon
his massive brow, and seated himself in
gloomy silence. His features somewhat
relaxed, however, at the sight of the stuffed
tomatoes which his soul loved, and presently,
under the influence of partridge

VOL. I. 7

and Connie's most bewitching manner —
that young lady being in a particularly
good humour, as she was looking forward
to a pleasant afternoon — he not only
frowned no more, but became positively
cheerful.

Mabel was very quiet until luncheon was
nearly over, when she said —

Oh, I changed the books to-day, mother,
and I got you that new book of Hyde Gril-more's.
I couldn't resist reading a little of
it myself, it looks so delightful. Of course
it's fearfully sensational. I thought it
would amuse you this afternoon while we
were out."

Thank you, dear," replied little Mrs.
Chesham, tremulously ; and only a stern
glance from her daughter prevented her
saying from force of habit, " Perhaps
George would like to see it first."

Luncheon over, Mr. and Mrs. Chesham
retired into the former's study, where
Mabel had placed the new book in full
view. In about half an hour Mrs. Chesham
emerged with a guiltily triumphant
face.

Mabel was waiting for her in the diningroom.


Here you are ! " she said, with a low
laugh. " What do you say to me now ?
Am I not a very model of craftiness ? "

My dear," said the little woman, with
a half-repentant glance back at the study
door, " do you think it seems quite — quite
kind to treat him so ? "

Quite kind," said Mabel, stoutly. " All
you want is that he should be happy, and
we've made him quite so. He has not only
the book, but the extra pleasure of having
well, no, I won't say it, if it distresses

you. Come "up, dear, and let me make you
very tidy."

A little later, they set out for the studio,
Mrs. Chesham feeling like a schoolgirl out
for a holiday, Connie in a wild state of
excitement, and Mabel irrepressibly elated
at having secured her mother for the
afternoon.

An unkempt servant in a dirty print
frock opened the door of Mr. Baring's house,
after Mabel had nearly exhausted her
strength by pulling at the bell, gazed at
the party with an air of astonishment, and
finally showed them into a drawing-room
of bleak and uninhabited appearance, with
the carpet rolled up in the middle of the
floor, and odd pieces of stuff covering the
chairs.

How artistic ! " exclaimed Mabel, holding
up her hands in pretended admiration,

as the door closed noisily on the slatternly
maid.

Oh, hush, my dear ! ' said Mrs.
Chesham, nervously ; while Connie stared
about, with her blue eyes opened to their
fullest extent.

The exquisite disorder of genius,"
went on Mabel, " which never, as is well
known, condescends to dustpans or brooms.
1 hope, though, that when I am hung every
year on the Academy walls, and only my
sex prevents me from being elected President,
that I shall still retain my * eye '
for a clean face. Did you notice the maid's
face ? It was one large, beautiful smut."

Here the door opened to admit Mrs.
Simes, in a costume curiously composed
of the skirt of one gown and the body of
another.

How do you do ? I am Stephen's aunt

and housekeeper," she said, genially for
her — Mr. Baring having given instructions
that these visitors were to be specially well
treated. " I am afraid this room is not
very comfortable, but there is so much todo
in a house like this that it is impossible
to get it all done at once. Come into the
studio. Stephen lives there, so that too
makes it useless to keep the other rooms
ready."

They followed her across the hall, to the
studio door, which she flung open, remarking,
in her high-pitched voice —

Your visitors, Stephen ! " and, shutting
it behind them, she retreated to the kitchen
to get the tea ready.

Mr. Baring came forward from the end
of the long room to greet his guests, which
he did in the grave, dignified way peculiar
to him. His manner with Mrs. Chesham

was perfect, although it somehow had the
effect of making her feel that she was
quite, if not more than, a middle-aged
woman. His deep-set eyes rested for a
moment on Mabel's face, and then turned
to Connie, who was almost prancing with
anticipation and excitement.

He took them round the studio, showing
them curious and beautiful things brought,
many of them, by himself from far-distant
countries ; he produced sketches done in .
the East, in Spain, and in South America ;
and finally he halted before the easel on
which stood his Saint Cecilia.

Mrs. Chesham gave the picture the appreciative
look of a woman who knows
nothing about art, and only takes a well-bred
interest in it ; Connie glanced carelessly
at it, and then flitted off to something
else ; Mabel stood before it, keenly conscious

of every touch of beauty both in
conception and execution.

When she looked away she found the
artist watching her, and in answer to the
unspoken question in his face —

It is lovely," she said gently. " I
never saw anything more beautiful."

Baring's eyes gave a flash, and then
turned to his picture with almost the look
that a mother has when she hears her child
praised by some one whose opinion she
values.

He came a little nearer to Mabel. " If
you would only sit to me ! " he murmured.

Mabel, with the new feeling of reverence
for the great master strong upon her, was
just about to express her willingness to do
so, when she happened to glance up into
his face, and something froze the words
upon her lips. What it was she could not

have told. Nothing definite. Mr. Baring
was looking at her with just that expression
of polite interest which feigns to be a
little more anxious than it really is. Why
the thought of Hubert should suddenly
have come into Mabel's mind she knew
not, nor what it was exactly that prompted
her next speech.

Thank you. Indeed, I feel honoured
by your asking me ; but it is a superstition
of mine never to sit to any one."

Mr. Baring's face darkened. He turned
abruptly away without a word, and for the
rest of the visit devoted himself exclusively
to Connie. Mabel felt that she had offended
him, and was very sorry, for he had begun
to exercise upon her the kind of fascination
of which nearly all women were sensible in
his presence. She almost wished he would
ask her again, and yet, at the same time,

something told her that she had answered
wisely.

She sat down before the picture, and
after a minute or two forgot herself in
the pleasure which so perfect a piece of
art could not fail to arouse in a mind
like hers.

He must be a man of a good and noble
nature, or he never could paint a face like
that, for there is something in it which he
cannot have seen in any earthly model's
features," she thought.

Presently the untidy maid, with an expression
of extreme indignation on her
begrimed features, brought in tea, closely
followed by Mrs. Simes, whose cheeks were
flushed, and whose eyes followed the handmaiden
to the door, as though they were
loath to lose sight of her.

Seven spoonfuls of tea for five people ! "

she muttered, as she began to bang about
the cups and saucers in a way that reminded
Mabel of a school feast. " Just because I
turned my back for one minute ! '

Judging by the quality of the beverage
which Mrs. Simes poured out from the
Britannia - metal teapot, whose handle,
having come off, had been re-attached in
an artless manner with a piece of dingy
string, she must have rescued at least four
of the spoonfuls from a watery grave. The
tea was execrable, and served up in a style
that would have robbed it of its flavour,
even supposing it to have possessed any ;
but the artist gazed calmly at the tray
without appearing to perceive anything
amiss, and handed his guests the heavy,
common cups as complacently and as carefully
as if they had been of the finest
Sevres.

After arranging that Connie should
begin her sittings on the following Monday,
Mrs. Chesham and the girls took their
leave. The door had hardly closed behind
them, when the former said —

My dears, did you ever see anything
half so curious ? The mixture of gorgeousness
and almost squalor ! Those cups ! "

Made of the new unbreakable china,"
said Mabel, gravely. " I admired them."

Oh, Mabel ! " cried Connie. " And
that awful Mrs. Simes ! Why, she's nota
lady ! "

Certainly not," said Mrs. Chesham,
with a little shiver.

Well, you know," said Mabel, " one
always heard that Mr. Baring was a self-made
man. I think it does him all the
more credit, and I respect him for not
fussing over such trifles as cups and

teapots. He has something better to
think of."

Yes, my dear ; but why not combine
the two ? " insisted little Mrs. Chesham.
He could surely paint quite as well if
he made Mrs. Simes buy a new teapot."

I expect he doesn't even see the
string," said Mabel. " Painters' eyes are
different from ours."

It must be very convenient to be a
painter." said Mrs. Chesham, dryly ; and
when she got home she scolded the parlour-maid
for bringing up her own immaculate
silver teapot with an infinitesimal speck
on it.

Day-dreams.

Constance had been too pleasantly occupied
since her arrival in London, to give
much thought to her cousin, Harry
Lockyer, whose somewhat rare visits to
Layton Abbey she had once eagerly looked
forward to as the only welcome break in
the monotony of her life. Harry was a
person of importance in those days ; he
seemed to bring with him a kind of
aroma of that London which dwelt in
Connie's mind as the centre of all that
was worth living for. And then Harry

was deeply, undisguisedly in love with
her, and that in. itself was pleasant, all
the more because it was the only approach
to anything of the sort that she had experienced.
She liked him, too, very much ;
perhaps better than any one else, not.
excepting Hubert, in her affection for
whom a little not unnatural jealousy was
always present.

Harry was rather tiresome occasionally,
certainly ; he was always wanting to be
grave and in earnest. Several times,
when she had complained bitterly of Miss
Durant's coldness and severity, be had
burst out with an entreaty to her to forsake
the house that was no home to her,
and to come to him in his almost poverty,
and let him love and work for her. As

if ! But Harry, for all his sober

common sense, was very foolish sometimes.

She had thought that when he had made
a name, and was a fashionable West-end
physician, in a fair way to knighthood,
and with a lucrative practice, she would
not very much mind marrying him, but
that was — oh, years and years ahead.
And meanwhile she didn't want to be
bound ; she was far too young, and had
never enjoyed herself, and Harry was
inclined to take strict and prudish views
of what a girl might or might not do.

So Harry remained in the distance asa
possible Perseus, if no better offered,
and Constance fulfilled her daily round
without troubling her pretty head as to
her cousin's present weal or woe. She
had no sympathy whatever with his profession
; neither her heart nor her mind
cared to follow his.

He had so completely slipped out of

her memory that she was quite startled
when, one afternoon, just as it was drawing
to the pleasant hour of dusky firelight
room and fragrant tea, the parlour-maid
announced —

Mr. Lockyer."

Harry ! " cried Constance, springing
up from the low armchair in which she
had been buried, her feet upon the bar of
the fender, lazily watching Mabel in the
half-gloom pour out the tea. " Harry,
who would have thought of seeing
you f "

The man who received this warm
welcome was about thirty, although he
looked older. His features were worn and
set, he stooped slightly, and his eyes,
though keen enough, had a tired, strained
look in them.

Works too hard," was Mabel's com-vol.
i. 8

ment, as Constance introduced her cousin
to her.

Why have you never come to see me
all this time ? " said Constance, who, asher
conscience slightly smote her, hastened
to fasten the blame on some one else.

Harry looked at her. She was just the
same. More becomingly dressed, perhaps,
her hair more artistically arranged, but
the face had not changed. It wore its
old expression of innocent openness, which
Harry, lover-like, chose to believe was but
the smooth surface of deep, as yet untroubled,
waters below. Bless her ! He
was sure it had never once occurred to her
sweet, trusting heart, that the money her
aunt had left her had raised a barrier
between her and her loving, but poor
cousin. She could not as yet fathom the
depths of a proud man's character ; she

was such a childish, fairy-like creature.
If they had been able to marry, he knew
so he thought — that his hand held
the master key which would unlock all
the treasures of that pure soul — treasures
the existence of which he was as certain
of as the miner who " knows " that tomorrow,
or next day at latest, he will
strike gold.

Would she wait for him ? He was
getting on fairly well ; his practice was,
if slowly, still steadily increasing; and if
certain ideas he had, proved to be worth
what he hoped and thought they were,
he might make a sudden leap from obscure
poverty to reputation and a good income.
Should he ask Constance to wait for him ?
Did she care for him ? Unable to makeup
his mind as to his best course, he had
at last resolved to see his darling once

more, and try to glean from her blue
eyes the information which night after
night of sleepless, anxious thought had
been unable to give him.

He answered her question with —

I didn't even know your address,
until I met Hubert in Bond Street the
other day."

Dear me ! how absurd ! " said Connie.
I never even thought of sending it you.
Somehow one thinks everybody knows
everybody else's address. But I've been
here weeks now."

And how do you like London after
all ? " asked Harry, remembering Connie's
longings of old.

Oh, I think it's the most dear, delicious,
darling place in the world ! " cried
Connie. "I can't understand how people
can live anywhere else."

Wait till you have lived here a few
years," said Mabel ; " then you will know
how to appreciate the country."

You prefer the country ? " asked
Harry, looking scrutinizingly at the girl
who had the good fortune to see Connie
every day.

I do — very much," was all that Mabel
said. But her eyes grew soft and wistful,
and sought the leaping, dancing flames
in the grate, as if she could see in them
some picture pleasant to look upon.

Connie gave a laugh.

You see, Harry, what different tastes
we have, Mabel and I. It is the same
in everything. She cares for all the
things I don't care about, and I like all
the things she doesn't."

Mabel smiled. She wondered what
Connie did care about.

You ought to get on very well together,
then," said Harry, thinking that
Mabel was probably a blue-stocking — a
product of modern times, which was the
object of his special aversion.

Oh, we do ! ,: Connie answered somewhat
indifferently.

There was a silence. Mabel asked if
Harry would have some more tea, and
then got up and went away, thinking
that the cousins might very probably
like to talk by themselves a little.

She went upstairs, where, at the very
top of the house, was her own especial
refuge — a small room, with a good window
and a tiny fireplace. In this room
she had played as a child, worked and
dreamed as a girl. There was not a
corner of it — ordinary, bare, prosaic little
place as it looked to outside eyes — which

was not endeared to her by some association.
No housemaid was ever allowed to
profane it by brush or pail. Mabel kept
it clean herself, and was wont to declare
that it was the only room in the house
that ever was thoroughly free from London
dust and dirt.

Mr. Chesham's heavy foot had never —
at least, to Mabel's knowledge — ascended
the last narrow flight which led to this
sanctum. Mrs. Chesham had once or twice
sought shelter there, when it had seemed
to her that the whole world was becoming
one huge George, from whom there was
and could be no escape. Then, with that
curious reversal of their natural parts
which had for many years characterized
the relations between this mother and
daughter, Mabel had soothed and comforted
the elder woman, and had presently

taken her downstairs again, feeling that
after all life was not quite intolerable.

It was cold up there after Connie's
warm, flower scented room, but Mabel did
not mind that. She lighted the little
gas-fire, which Mr. Chesham had always
refused to let her have, and for which
she had paid at last out of money earned
by herself.

She sat down in a very battered old
chair — a chair which had held her in all
the stages of childhood and girlhood — and
began to think. It was very quiet. There
was no noise outside, no sound from
below, only the slight murmur of the gas-fire
was audible in the room.

Hubert had been up here once since
Constance had lived with them. Connie
had gone into ecstasies over a little picture
Mabel had been painting ; and, with her

usual impetuosity, had dragged her brother
upstairs to see it, without even pausing
to ask Mabel's leave. Mabel had followed,
half vexed, half pleased.

Hubert had given a curious glance
round the room, with its familiar atmosphere
of paint, like and yet so unlike his
own studio. There were the easels, the
tubes of paint, the sheaf of brushes the
turpentine, the palette, the paint-rags — all
the indispensable furniture of the artist :
but there were also dainty muslin curtains
looped back with pale blue, at the window •
a little bit of white work, with the needle
sticking in it, lay near the palette ; a long
glove hung over the corner of the second
easel ; a glass, with a bunch of Neapolitan
violets, stood on the chimney-piece.
Artist's room, but girl's room as well.
It had impressed Hubert more strongly

than if it had been either one or the
other ; and he had been sensible that
evening, in his own studio, which was so
unmistakably, so ungracefully masculine,
and masculine only, of a great void in
his life, which not the most heroic, the
most unflinching, devotion to his art
could ever fill.

He had stood before Mabel's picture
until Constance became impatient, and
Mabel painfully conscious of its demerits.
Then he had turned away without speaking
; but when he said good-bye, half an
hour later, he uttered a few words of praise,
which Mabel had treasured up in her heart
ever since, and which had sent her back
to her work with fresh courage.

It was too dark to paint now, even had
Mabel not felt lazily inclined. The merry
flicker of the gas-fire travelled from one

object to another in the small room — now
bringing into relief the easel, making a
little girl's face which Mabel had been
painting stand out in almost startling
distinctness ; now showing up the dark red
of the ancient table-cover, and revealing
a state of confusion upon the table which
ought to have put its owner to shame.

One of these sudden glimpses of her
canvas brought Mabel's thoughts back
from their wanderings to her own work.
She wondered vaguely if there were anything
really in her — if she would ever
attain to anything more than respectable
mediocrity. She loved her art ; it had consoled
and filled her life ; it was dear to her
for its own sake ; she would have wanted
to paint if hers had been the only eyes in
the world. But had she any spark of the
real flame, or was it only a reflection,

which, however bright it might look,
would never give forth any original,
individual warmth ?

It was so difficult for her to work ; there
were always so many other duties in the
way. She could not remain from morning
till evening, shut up in her studio, selfishly
pursuing her own course, while downstairs
her mother missed her, and Connie grew
cross and dissatisfied. Less than ever now
could she absent herself for many hours
together ; and yet how, without those long
hours, could she ever attain to the technical
perfection without which the most beautiful
ideas remain lifeless and dumb ? Work,
and work only, is the Promethean fire
which animates the creations of the brain.
Mabel knew it, and she knew also that it
was impossible for her to work — just now.

Her dreamy thoughts brought before hera

vision of a different and more congenial
life, in which she and another seemed to
move like two shadows, crossing each
other's path, intertwining, blending, each
going his own way, each going the same
way. She gave no name to that other
shadow, did not breathe it even to her own
mind, but she knew it — both by name and
nature. A long vista of work — real work,
each one loving the other's work best ; of
helpful, inspiring communion ; of ambition
for each other ; and at the very end, far,
far away, a sort of throne of glory, on
which the one shadow sat, looked up to
and renowned throughout the world, while
the other shadow, that was herself, sat in
the radius of his light, each to each the
very centre and essence of it all.

And while Mabel sat dreaming, with a
happy smile upon her lips, Constance

chattered to Harry of her gaieties, and
how tiresome it was to be still in mourning,
and of how she was going to sit to Mr.
Baring, the Academician.

He paints so splendidly, you know,"
she said, with a funny little critical air.

"How is Hubert getting on?" asked
Harry. " I've not had time to pay him
a visit lately."

Oh, I don't think he gets on at all.
The last time we were there he was copying
the most hideous old portrait, for which I
suppose he got next to nothing. Can you
imagine how a man can be so ridiculous
as to give up all his prospects in life
for that kind of thing ! "

I believe he has real talent, to say the
least of it," answered Harry.

Well, it's a long time showing itself.
You should see Mr. Baring's studio."

Mr. Baring is a good many years older
than Hubert, dear, and I've always beard
that he had a very hard struggle of it."

Yes, he says so himself. Oh, of course,
if Hubert is going to turn out like that —
but the question is, will he ? "

Only Time can answer that," said
Harry. " Am I going to turn out a
successful doctor ? "

Who knows, if you yourself don't ? "
laughed Connie. " It seems dreadful that
men have to wait so long before they are
certain of themselves. It's much pleasant
to be a girl, after all. You don't have to
think about anything."

CHAPTER VI.

A HELPFUL MODEL.

Harry went away without having said
anything to Constance on the subject so
near to his heart. He was so afraid of
troubling her, of taking an unfair advantage
of her innocence and inexperience.
She was evidently happy, and in good
hands ; he could see her when he wished ;
so that altogether he thought it would be
much wiser to wait until things were
better with him.

Constance herself forgot all about Harry
as soon as he had shut the door behind

him. She never had room in her mind for
many things at a time, and just now she
was fully absorbed in pleasant anticipation
of her sittings to Mr. Baring,
which were to begin the very next
morning.

Mabel or Robson was to accompany her,
and Mrs. Chesham thought it advisable to
give her a hint as to her behaviour.

"Don't laugh and joke too much with
Mr. Baring, dear. Remember, he is an
artist."

Connie, as usual, opened her eyes wide.

What difference does his being an
artist make ? Artists are just the same
as other men, aren't they ? "

Of course, my child ; but still — one
thinks — one has always had the impression
that they were rather — rather — well, rather
free and easy kind of people, you know."

YOL. I. 9

Connie put up her chin with a comical
air of dignity.

How absurd your mother is ! " she
said to Mabel, as they left the house
together. "Any one would think I was
a baby ! "

Instead of a hard-headed, experienced
old maid ! " smiled Mabel.

No, I'm not that either," said Connie,
perfectly seriously ; " but still I think I
can take care of myself."

They found Mr. Baring quite ready for
them, and were taken straight into the
studio. Connie was struck with a sudden
fit of shyness, and fluttered about, trying
to put off the moment when she would
have to begin sitting. Mr. Baring seemed
in no hurry, however ; he went on putting
a few last touches to some other work, at
the same time flattering and confusing

Mabel by asking her opinion about some
trifling arrangement of drapery.

Mabel came and stood behind him,
watching the slight, well-shaped fingers as
they worked with such seeming ease. As
she looked, a wave of despair came over
her. How should she ever attain to a
thousandth part of such skill as that ? And
yet, how dead and flat things were without
it ! She had an impulse to run home and
burn easel, palette, and brushes, and devote
herself to hemming dusters for the rest of
her life.

I should like to see some of your
work," said Mr. Baring presently, looking
round at her with a smile.

My work ! I was at that moment
thinking what a paltry waste of time it is
for me to attempt to paint. I can never
do anything really good, and if one's work
is worth nothing "

Still, if it amuses you " said Mr.

Baring, indulgently.

I have never done it for amusement ! "
Mabel answered quickly. "I was foolish
enough to think that I might take up art
as a profession — as a man does."

Yes, there are a great many lady
artists nowadays," said Mr. Baring ; " but
really I don't think they will ever do
much. Art is a man's work."

There have been women," said Mabel,
timidly — " Host Bonheur, Angelica Kauf-
mann "

Mr. Baring laughed.

Those are almost all. Think of our
numbers ! "

Mabel pondered. She had never seen
things in this light before. She had
thought the deficiency lay in herself, not
in her sex.

Do you really think a woman cannot
become a good artist ? " she asked at last.

Mr. Baring answered, " I think a woman
can be a clever artist — sometimes ; but a
really good artist — well, no, if you must
have it."

"Why not?" asked Mabel, bluntly.
She was not thinking of herself now, but
of her whole sisterhood.

Mr. Baring paused for a minute. He
was not accustomed to put his thoughts
into words.

Well, you know," he began slowly,
they are so — they are not — their minds
are not — they are not steady enough."

You mean they cannot concentrate
themselves enough ? " asked Mabel.

Mr. Baring nodded.

Precisely. That was the word I wanted.
Women are not meant to take up a profession

seriously. They are far too charming,
too "

Inferior," put in Mabel, as he stopped
for a word.

Here Constance interrupted. Her shyness
had vanished directly she found that
she was not the object of attraction.

Well, Mr. Baring, where am I to
sit?"

Mr. Baring's eyes clouded over, but if
he would have preferred to go on talking
to Mabel, no one could have guessed it.
He put away his work, and showed Constance
where he wanted her to stand.

He, he ! " giggled Connie. " I feel as
if I were going to be photographed."

We won't be as cruel as that to you,"
said Baring, taking Connie's fair head in
both his hands as unceremoniously as if it
had belonged to the lay figure in the

corner, and adjusting it to the right
position.

Connie got quite red, and said, " Oh I "

You must forgive my posing you without
any ceremony," said Mr. Baring ; " and
now forget that you are being painted."

He made an observation or two, which
had the effect of setting Connie off talking
at the top of her speed, which was exactly
what he wanted. The more he looked at
Connie, the less inclined to paint her he
felt.

Insipid little face ! " he thought. " My
confrere, Morel, would rave about it, and
pass the other one by almost without
notice. Shall I be rewarded, I wonder ?
Will she sit to me ? "

Mabel was absently watching the artist,
while thinking over what he had said
about women.

Was he right ? Was it, after all, vain
and presumptuous to have aspired so high
to have thought that, if women had not
left deep footprints on the ground Mr.
Baring so jealously claimed for his sex,
it was because they were wont to step too
lightly and too quickly, not because they
lacked sufficient weight in themselves ?
What was the difference, the vital difference,
between an ambitious woman and
an ambitious man ? If the woman were
as ready as the man to sacrifice ease of
life, her no doubt characteristic and hereditary
love of indolence, her social vanity,
her youth, was it a fact that by reason
of her sex she was condemned only to
bear the labour and heat of the day, whilst
no golden guerdon awaited her at the
end ?

Mabel sat and watched Stephen Baring,

as with unfaltering hand he went about
his work ; she noted the stern, fixed expression
of his eyes and mouth, and felt
her whole soul rise up in revolt against
his edict. The great painter had done
more than sketch in Constance's pretty
head that day ; he had breathed upon an
already kindled spark, and had fanned it
into a little flame which might now be
safely left to time.

Mr. Baring himself, however, was not
thinking of his last words to Mabel. What
he had said he thought, and had always
thought, perhaps excusably ; for he had
seen thousands of worthless attempts
at painting by women, who seemed so
satisfied with their own work, that they
were beyond the reach of criticism. How
many promising girl-students had he not
also seen vanish into that limbo already

so extensively peopled with the shades
of persevering and frivolous women !
He considered it the absolute duty of every
man consulted on the subject to dissuade
and discourage the weaker sex from embarking
on waters on which they were
perfectly certain to make shipwreck sooner
or later. He worked on, therefore, totally
oblivious of any effect his words might
have had on Mabel's mind. Mind was an
abstraction which it rarely occurred to
Mr. Baring to associate with the sex.

Connie, meanwhile, was prattling on
in her usual way, entirely to her own
satisfaction.

Do you know, now I am used to it,"
she said, at the end of about five minutes,
"I don't mind sitting a bit. At first,
something ran like cold water all down
my spine, and I felt as if I half wanted

to laugh and half to cry ; but now that's
all over, and I rather like it. May I get
down and look at what you've done,
please ? "

This suggestion being answered in the
negative, she continued —

Robson — that's my maid, you know ;
she used to be my nurse — was quite unhappy
at the idea of my sitting. She says
it's unlucky."

Unlucky ! ' echoed Mr. Baring. " I
never heard that before."

"Yes; unlucky. She had a third cousin
who once sat to an artist for a portrait of
a Saracen's head."

A Saracen's head, Connie ! " said
Mabel.

Yes ; a Saracen's head. You see, they
the third cousin's parents — kept a public-house,
and they wanted a new sign ; and

as this artist wanted to pay his bill, and
couldn't "

Mr. Baring smiled grimly ; he had
heard of such a thing before.

— and couldn't, he offered to do them a
sign. The house was called ' The Saracen's
Head,' but, of course, they couldn't give
him a real Saracen to paint from, so he
took the third cousin, who was very dark
complexioned. Robson remembers it perfectly,
because they borrowed her best
Sunday shawl to make a turban of, and
they crumpled it so dreadfully, she was
never able to wear it afterwards."

But, except to Robson's shawl, I don't
see where the ill luck comes in," observed
Mr. Baring.

I haven't got to that yet. Well, the
sign was painted and hung up, and justa
year and a day — which, Robson says, is

always the time luck turns — afterwards,
her cousin took to his bed with scarlet
fever, and never left it until he was carried
out of the door feet foremost."

As Constance pronounced these last words
in unconscious imitation of Robson's own
solemn tones, Mr. Baring laughed more
than they had ever seen him laugh yet.

I think your maid must be amusing,"
he said. " You must bring her here sometime,
and get her to talk."

Yes, she can come with me sometimes
instead of Mabel," said Connie, placidly ;
and Mabel felt that it was very small-minded
of her to have an impulse to throw
Connie's muff, which she was holding, at
that empty, but guileless little head.

So others, you observe, share your
prejudice, which you did not mention the
first time I met you, about sitting," observed

Mr. Baring to Mabel. Before she
could frame a reply, Constance broke in —

Mabel's prejudice ! Oh, she isn't such
a goose as Robson. Why, she has sat
dozens of times to Miss Stuart, and she
promised Hubert the other day she would
sit to him."

Mr. Baring paused in his work, and
turned round. His brows drew together,
and his eyes positively blazed, as lie looked
Mabel full in the face.

It seems, then, that it is only to me
you will not sit."

Mabel was too vexed to answer, and he
went on —

Perhaps you will at least tell me
what is your objection ? Do you fear that
I should not do your features as much
justice as — Miss Stuart or — Mr. Durant ? "

The sneer which accompanied the last

words was unmistakable, and roused
Mabel at once.

I imagine that every one has a right to
refuse to sit to an artist without explanation,"
she said proudly.

A right — yes," answered Mr. Baring,
softening his tone immediately. He did
not wish to quarrel with Mabel. " A
right. But surely it is a very selfish thing
to do. If you knew," he went on, coming
a step nearer, and looking at Mabel's
downcast face with an intentness which, in
spite of herself, drew her eyes to his —
if you only knew how much I want you
to sit to me ! You have refused — I don't
understand why — and I have never asked
anybody for a favour twice before, but
I do ask you. Will you ? "

Mabel's eyes fell directly his voice
ceased.

I don't know — I must think," she
murmured.

Eureka! " thought Baring, and, putting
down his brush, said —

Thank you, Miss Durant. I won't
trouble you any longer to-day."

Connie, who had not been able to catch
any of the low-spoken dialogue between
Mr. Baring and Mabel, but who had
vaguely gathered that Baring wanted
Mabel to sit to him, descended from her
platform with a slightly aggrieved air,
which was entirely wasted upon both the
others.

Mr. Baring took leave of Mabel with
a look meant to express entreaty and
admiration, and from which he completely
succeeded in eliminating any sign
of the triumph which really possessed him.

As he went back into his studio, after

showing the girls out, he cast a derisive
look at the easel, on which a suggestion
of Connie's piquant face had already appeared,
and murmured, with his hand to
his mouth —

'* I can wait your own time now, Miss
Moore. I am not an impatient man."

vol. t. 10

A PROPOSAL.

Somewhat to Mabel's astonishment, the
sittings went on very regularly after the
first one. She was surprised, because it
was a new idea for Connie to persevere ina
thing when the novelty of it had worn
off; and sitting still was just the very last
thing that she would have expected her to
like. Yet Constance not only always remembered
the day, and was ready at the
proper time, but was even anxious and
eager to go.

Mabel managed so that Robson should
always accompany her young mistress ;
and Connie made no demur to this arrangement,
although usually she was very vexed
if Mabel did not go everywhere with her.

Why Mabel sent Robson, she could perhaps
hardly have explained. It was not
to save herself trouble, nor because she
did not care to go. Perhaps the real
and true reason was that she did care to
go. She had found herself thinking a
great deal about Mr. Baring after that first
sitting. The artist's look and tone and
voice had come between her and her work,
had obtruded themselves into her dreams ;
nay, had even tried to force open the door
of that shrine hitherto sacred to one name
only.

Mabel was not a child. She knew very
well what it means when a girl's thoughts

begin to centre themselves upon any one
man, and yet she could not quite fathom
her own mind. There was Hubert ; she
was quite sure she loved him, and equally
certain that he knew she ]over him. Why,
then, if she loved Hubert, had she begun
to think so much about Mr. Baring ? She
knew almost as little of the artist as one
human being can know of another. . She
had only spoken to him two or three times,
and not a word had passed between them
that was worth remembering. She was
almost sure she did not like him, that his
mind was distinctly antagonistic to her
own. Why, then, did she feel so inclined
to 2:0 to the studio the next time Constance
went ? Was it out of curiosity ? There
was certainly, to her, a touch of mystery
about Mr. Baring, and Mabel was a
woman. But although she was a woman,

she possessed a clear and logical understanding,
and it had always been her
custom to be very honest with herself.
Patiently she analyzed her feelings, and
at last came to the conclusion that,
although curiosity went for something,
vanity — pure and simple vanity — went fora
great deal.

I turn up my nose at Connie, and I
am every bit as bad as she. Worse, because
I am supposed to have brains, and
she isn't," she reflected.

Having thus settled matters with herself,
she made two resolutions : one, that she
would not go to the studio again for sometime
; the other, that she would not, in
any case, or under any pressure, sit for
Mr. Baring.

Meanwhile, the artist himself was working
at Connie's head something in the

spirit of a child who makes up his mind
to take nasty medicine for the sake of the
spoonful of jam to follow. Not that it
is fair to compare Constance with nasty
medicine ; only a barbarian could have
done such a thing, and Mr. Baring was
not a barbarian — he was a Royal Academician.
But having to paint Connie was
like having to read the alphabet when you
are longing for a book, a special book.
She was so very, very fair, and Mr. Baring
disliked fair women. If her hair had been
red he could have borne it better, but that
particularly flaxen fairness provoked him.
He was always telling himself that she
was exactly like a wax doll — shadeless
hair, blue eyes, red lips, pink cheeks, and
little nose.

She'd melt if one were to put her too
near the fire," he thought fretfully.

All of which was very unkind, for he
had himself asked Connie to sit to him,
and he had never, among either professional
models or enthusiastic young women,
had so patient and painstaking a sitter.
After the first time she did not even annoy
him with her chatter ; she became wonderfully
silent and docile, never moving from
the position in which he had placed her,
and always asking, with a curious, wistful
little smile, as he opened the door for her,
if she had sat well.

Personally, indeed, Baring by no means
disliked her. Who had ever disliked
Connie ? He began to treat her, by
degrees, like a pet child, allowing her to
wash and clean his brushes and dust his
tables, to his aunt's extreme astonishment
and to Connie's delight — she who, in
Mabel's painting-room, could not bear the

smell of turpentine, and shrieked if she
got the least drop on her hands.

On one occasion she found the artist
woefully embarrassed by the arrangement
of some drapery, which needed more skilful
fingers than any in his own house.
Connie at once begged to be allowed to doit,
and accomplished her task so deftly
that Mr. Baring was delighted.

She also appeared to have, in some
manner, ingratiated herself with Mrs.
Simes, for that by no means universally
amiable old lady expressed herself with
what, in her, almost amounted to enthusiasm.


A nice, helpful young thing ! " she
said to her nephew one day after Connie
had been there. "No stuck-up pride about
her. I'll tell you what it is, Stephen ; you
ought to marry that girl."

What girl ? " asked Baring, who had
a habit of letting his aunt talk without
troubling himself to attend to what she
was saying.

What girl ? Why, Miss Durant, to be
sure. She has twenty thousand pounds."

"How do you know that?" asked Baring.

She told me, of course. She's a simple
little creature, easy enough to get anything
out of," said Mrs. Simes, complacently.
" Twenty thousand pounds all to
herself."

I don't admire her," said Baring, indifferently.


Mrs. Simes opened her small eyes to
their fullest extent.

Admire her ! What's that got to do
with it ? You're not going to marry a
wife so that she may sit to you all day
long, I suppose ! I shan't last for ever,

and it would be much better for you to
marry, so that I can train your wife to
keep your house properly. Now, this girl
is quiet and not self-willed, as far as I can
see, and wouldn't give rne any trouble.
And twenty thousand pounds is a good bit
of money."

Baring got up, and left the table — they
had been at the meal called by courtesy
supper — without vouchsafing any reply to
the old woman's ramblings ; but arrived in
his studio, he lighted a pipe, and sat down
to think.

Marry Connie ! The idea was entirely
new to him ; it had never so much as
glanced through his head before. Women
are always thinking about match-making ;
once or twice before Mrs. Simes had hinted
that he ought to marry, but he had never
taken the slightest notice. But Connie ?

Yes, it was quite true ; she was a nice,
neat-fingered, helpful little thing, who
would certainly not be in his way. She
would never want to lead a fashionable
life, or spend money right and left. He
was quite sure that he would be able to do
as he liked with her. Was she not already
as submissive and tractable as possible ?
She was not very wise, perhaps, but he
did not approve of high-flown and 
women. And then she certainly
had twenty thousand pounds. Aunt Simes
was by no means a fool, although she did
chatter so detestably occasionally. Connie
was pretty enough when you were not
painting her, and she was certainly worth
the twenty thousand pounds — which, nevertheless,
Mr. Baring would infinitely have
preferred without her.

When Connie next came to sit, after

Robson had been despatched — as very often
happened, although Mrs. Chesham was
ignorant of the fact — on some errand which
would take her out of the way for at least
an hour, Mr. Baring, after posing the girl
as usual, looked at her more attentively
than he had ever done before.

There could certainly be no doubt whatever
as to her prettiness, whether it were
palatable prettiness or not. She would
make a more than presentable hostess ; for
of course, when once married, he would
have to entertain to a certain extent, as
his excuse of bachelorhood would be no
longer available. That was undoubtedly a
drawback. He had an objection to waste
money in the entertainment of fools. Still,
there were the twenty thousand pounds,
and Aunt Simes would see that nothing
was done extravagantly.

Are there any brushes to be washed
to-day ? " asked Connie, in the fresh young
voice which her cousin Harry thought the
sweetest upon earth, but which Mr. Baring
had never noticed.
" No, thanks'' he said absently.

Connie looked disappointed.

Why has not your friend come with
you again ? " he asked presently, without
looking at her.

She is very busy always ; she has
so much to do, and she paints a great
deal."

I asked her to sit to me," said
Baring.

Did you ? "

11 Yes. Don't stick out your lips like
that ; I am just at your mouth. Didn't
she tell you ? "

No ; she didn't mention it at all. "

Mr. Baring lilted his eyebrows, and
painted away savagely for a minute or
two. Then he said—

Tell me, what sort of a girl is Miss
Moore ? "

What sort of a girl ? " repeated Connie,
thinking, i I wonder why he bothers me
about Mabel so to-day?' " Oh, she's very
nice. Awfully clever, you know, and
very funny sometimes. She always seems
so much older, though, than she really is.
She has such opinions."

Opinions ? " said Baring, looking at
Connie in astonishment.

Yes ; they worry one sometimes.
About what people ought to do to other
people, don't you know, and things of that
sort."

Oh, a blue-stocking ! " remarked Baring,
contemptuously.

N — n — o ; I don't think she's that,"
said Connie, as if loath to fasten too much
blame upon her absent friend. " She is
only very serious sometimes."

Mr. Baring made an inarticulate sound,
and nothing more was said for a few minutes.
Presently he spoke again.

Do you like living with the Cheshams,
Miss Durant ? "

Yes," Connie answered indifferently.

Are you very happy there ? Should
you be sorry to leave them ? "

Connie opened eyes and mouth. " I'm
not going to leave them. I am as comfortable
there as I could be anywhere — till
Hubert gets rich, and I go to live with
him."

Mr. Baring gave a short laugh. " Till
your brother gets rich ? Why, have you
not enough for two ? "

Yes, plenty," Connie answered eagerly ;
but somehow Hubert won't hear of it.
He says he must be rich first."

And are you really going to wait until
that day arrives ? " asked Baring, with a
sneer. " You will be an old maid by that
time."

Yery likely," assented Connie, with a
doleful nod of her head, and the corners of
her mouth going down.

Perhaps, though, you will neither ever
go to live with your brother, nor continue
to stay with the Cheshams," said Mr.
Baring presently, in a very gentle voice.

Connie looked at him inquiringly, and
after a minute said helplessly, " I don't
know what you mean."

Young ladies marry," said the artist,
stooping to look at his work closely.

Connie made no answer ; and when

Baring glanced at her a moment later, he
saw she had grown very pale.

Have you taken a vow of celibacy ? "
he asked jestingly.

Constance put her hand nervously to
her throat, and looked round the room.

Have you ? " repeated the artist.

*' No," answered Connie, with lips quivering
like a child's.

Mr. Baring gave one careful sweep of
his brush to the delicate shade beneath the
eyes of Connie's portrait, and then, laying
down his palette, leisurely walked up to
the girl, who was trembling all over.

Will you marry me, Constance ? " he
asked, leaning over her so as to look full
into her eyes.

Constance gave a little cry", a sob, and

flung herself into the painter's arms.

Baring held her close for a minute — it
VOL. t. 11

was not an unpleasant sensation to feel her
fluttering heart against his own. Then he
put her back in her chair, and wiped away
the tears which were running fast down
her cheeks.

There, then," he said cheerfully; " that's
all settled. So, you see, I was a true prophet
after all. You will leave the Chess
and you won't go to live with your
brother."

How — how — long have you loved me ? "
sobbed Connie, in a few minutes.

The painter's eyes wandered to another
easel, on which stood a sketch of his new
composition picture. " She can sit for one
of the maidens in the background," he
thought. Then he said, " Oh, ever since
I've known you, dear."

So have I," whispered Connie, rapturously
; and then, clinging close to him, she

breathed, " I was so afraid you were going
to like Mabel best."

The image of the face he so coveted,
and which always eluded him, rose before
Baring, and his eyes grew deep and stern.
Mabel ! ' he said scornfully. " Mabel !
Oh no, my child. You need not have been
afraid ; I should never have asked Mabel
to marry mea



WHEN ONE LOVES.

Perhaps Mabel had never in her life been
so astonished as she was when Connie came
flying into her painting-room with her
news.

Say it again, Connie. I don't think I
heard right."

I — am — engaged — to — be — married —
to — Mr. — Baring," repeated Connie impressively,
inwardly delighted at Mabel's
bewilderment.

It's a joke, isn't it, Connie ? "

A joke ? Certainly not. I don't see
anything to be surprised at."

Only — isn't he a little old for you,
dear ? "

Not a bit. Twenty or thirty years
don't matter when one loves a person,"
said Constance, with an air of matronly
wisdom.

Mabel came and kissed her little friend
very tenderly. " My darling, I do hope
you'll be happy. Are you sure, Connie v
holding the girl a little away from her,
and gazing earnestly into her flushed,
excited face — " are you quite sure, Connie
dear, that you love him ? "

A proud, soft look came into Connie's
face — a look that Mabel had never seen there
before. She clasped her hands impulsively.

Love him ! I have loved him ever
since we first saw him in poor Hubert's

studio. He is so great, so good — such a
genius, Mab."

Yes, dear, he is all that," responded
Mabel, heartily. " There are not many
men like him."

She stood at the window, with her arm
round Connie, looking down thoughtfully
into the street below.

Constance soon broke in upon her meditations.
" We are to be married quite soon
directly I can get my things ready. Oh,
Mabel, won't it be fun ! "

Mabel looked blankly at her. Quite
soon ! Somehow she had never thought
of Connie as any man's wife.

Where is your mother ? Do get her
up here ; I want to tell her in some place
where — where "

Where George is not. I sympathize.
Ill go down and see if I can find her."

But don't tell her yourself," called
Connie, as Mabel was going out of the
room.

No, no ; I'll divulge nothing."

Mabel ran down to the study and knocked
at the door, a mark of respect which Mr.
Chesham always exacted.

Come in," said the owner of the room.

Mabel's head only obeyed this invitation.
She looked at her mother without speaking,
which was her habitual mode of intimating
to Mrs. Chesham that she was wanted.

The little woman rose gladly. Any
diversion was welcome which broke the
monotony of the long hours between
luncheon and dinner.

What is it, dear ? " she asked, when
the door had been closed with all the precaution*
expected from the poor invalid
inside.

News ! " said Mabel, melodramatically.
But the stairs are the penalty you must
pay for such a rarity. Come along ; and
prepare to be — astonished."

They found Constance arranging her
curls before the little glass on the chimney-piece.


Mrs. Chesham, after glancing at her,
looked curiously round the room as if she
expected to find some tangible embodiment
of Mabel's promise ; failing, however, to
discover anything unusual, she asked once
more —

What is it, Mabel ? Have you sold
a picture ? "

"No; better than that. Guess again'

Have you — is there Oh, tell me

quick, Mab. I thought I heard George
call."

George's voice, melodious though it

may be, has no power in this domain,"
said Mabel, solemnly. " Call he never so
sweetly, you will stay here as long as I
want you. The news has nothing to do
with me ; it concerns Connie."

She looked at Constance, who, blushing
up to her hair, hid her face shyly on Mrs.
Chesham's shoulder.

Mrs. Chesham's wits were by no means
wont to be as quick as her daughter's, and
yet they jumped at once to a conclusion
which Mabel would never have
dreamed of.

*' You are going to be married, my
child ! "

Constance only held her closer, and left
it to Mabel to say —

Yes, oh rival of Oedipus ; you have
guessed rightly — though how you did it is
a mystery to me."

My dear child," exclaimed Mrs. Clies-
ham, warmly, " I am so glad ! "

And she really did feel glad, although
even at that moment a shadow of bills,
butchers' books, and George crossed her
mind.

But don't you want to know anymore
? " laughed Mabel. " Or are you
going to be content with the knowledge
that Connie is going to marry — the moon
perhaps ? "

Be quiet, silly girl ! And now tell me
all about it, my darling. Or shall I guess
again ?

Yes, guess," murmured Connie.

Mrs. Chesham looked very wise.

*' I think I know, my dear," she said,
stroking Connie's hair. "It is your cousin
Harry, isn't it ? "

Her words produced an unlooked-for

effect. Constance started out of her friend's
arms, and said, with a face which expressed
anything but the pleased acquiescence
Mrs. Chesham had looked for —

Harry ! Good gracious ! I forgot all
about him ! "

No, no, mother," Mabel broke in ;
that's all wrong. It's Mr. Baring whom
Constance is going to marry."

It was Mrs. Chesham's turn to start
now.

Mr. Baring ! But he's old enough to
be your fa " She caught herself up.

Yes, he's a good deal older ; but Connie
says twenty or thirty years don't matter
when you love a person," said Mabel,
demurely.

And an artist ! " continued Mrs. Chesham.
" An artist who lives, as one may
say, from hand to mouth. I'm afraid.

darling, your aunt would hardly have
approved."

I don't care," Connie said irreverently.
I love him, and I mean to marry him."

And so, of course, as she is her own
mistress, I could only kiss her, and wish
her all the happiness in the world," said
little Mrs. Chesham ten minutes later,
when she had communicated the astounding
intelligence to her husband.

Just like you. All women are fools ! v

George, what did 3 7 ou say, love ? "

I said, * All women are fools,' and
you're not the smallest of them. Why
couldn't you have dissuaded her, little idiot
that she is ? "

' But what could I do ? I did sav he
was older than she, and an artist, and
she only said she loved him."

Love ? Pah ! I never heard of such

rubbish ! The word ' love ' appears to me
to be synonymous with selfishness, ignorance,
and all the other vices that people
want to give way to. I have no patience
with it — none."

But, my dear pet," said Mrs. Chesham,
with a bewildered drawing together of her
eyebrows, " I don't quite see why poor
Connie is selfish to wish to marry Mr.
Baring, although, of course, I quite agree
with you that it is very foolish of her."

Not selfish ? Who ever heard of a
woman that wasn't selfish ? Do you
suppose that girl thinks we give her up a
part of our house, allow her to share our
society, turn ourselves inside out, for her
benefit — for our pleasure ? Doesn't she
know that it is a matter of pounds,
shillings, and pence ? Do you suppose
she doesn't know that ? Come now ! "

said Mr. Chesham, looking angrily at his
wife.

Mrs. Chesham gave a faint, apologetic
smile.

One could hardly expect her to become
an old maid for our sakes," she answered
mildly.

Expect ! " repeated her husband, sarcastically.
" Oh, of course not ! Now you'll
go saying I expected such a thing. How
coarsely you put things, Emily ! There,
my neuralgia's coming on again."

My poor dear ! Let me get your
drops."

Oh no, never mind. A little pain more
or less is of small account in the life of a
sufferer like myself."

He leaned back and closed his eyes.
Mrs. Chesham looked at the fire with a
weary expression on her face that would

have made her daughter's heart bound
with indignation.

Presently the invalid spoke again.

What kind of man is this Baring ? "

Hem ! " answered his wife, reflectively.
" He's an artist — a Royal Academician."


I know that. Of course he is an
atrocious painter. The two go together''

He is very good-looking, or perhaps
rather striking looking,"

A woman's man. Is he a gentleman ? "

"Well, really, George, I don't know,"
said Mrs. Chesham, after a pause, during
which she had tried to bring Mr. Baring
before her mind's eye. "I've not seen
much of him. His manners are good.
Still, there were some things about his
house — his teapot "

Good heavens ! ,! exclaimed Mr.

Chesham, so testily as to make Mrs.
Chesham start. " I never saw such a
woman ! I ask her if a man's a gentleman,
and she launches forth about his teapot ! "
I beg your pardon, my dear," faltered
his wife.

Oh, it doesn't matter ! I shall never
teach you to be coherent in your conversation
— may as well give it up."

There was silence for a few minutes,
during which Mr. Chesham breathed so
stertorously that his wife feared she had
nearly provoked him into an apoplectic fit.
When he next spoke, however, it was in
the most mellifluous of voices.

Is it not nearly dinner-time, my pet ? "

Yes, darling, only ten minutes more."

Ah, I feel quite exhausted. In fact,

if it were not so impossible, I should

almost fancy I felt hungry. I think, my



love, in honour of Miss Durant's news,
that a bottle of champagne would not be
amiss. Eh ? Suppose you get up a couple
of that last Perrier Jouet — will you, my
very dear love ? "

VOL. I.



QUALIFYING FOR THE POSITION.

Hubert was quite as much astonished at
Connie's engagement as Mabel and her
mother had been, although perhaps for
rather different reasons. He had always
been so accustomed to look upon Connie
as a very charming child, who needed
all the protection and care of himself
and Robson, that it startled him to find
that other people should see her in another
light. And that Stephen Baring, a
man whom all the world reverenced and
looked up to on account of his genius,

who had surmounted and emerged so
triumphantly from those difficulties which
he himself found so terrible and heartbreaking
— that this man, now at the zenith
of his fame, should choose for the lifelong
companion of his master-mind a — dear
little thing like Connie, a child to whom
the word art was almost represented by
picture-books, and who, good little girl
though she was, was as unfit to mate with
a clever and distinguished man as a wren
with an eagle — why, it was absurd, utterly
absurd !

He takes Connie and leaves Mabel ! "
he thought with bewilderment — " Mabel,
who is fit for any one, however lofty his
genius ! "

Here he looked half mockingly round
his bare room, furnished lavishly, it was
true, with unsold pictures of his own.

Fit for any one ! And I — I, poor
out-at-elbows wretch, who thank the Fates
for a five-guinea commission, and would
think my fortune made if I sold a picture
for ten — I aspire to such a woman ! Am
I — is she to wait until I am as old as
Baring — until to the luxury of a spacious
and gorgeous studio I can add that of a
wife ? She will not wait for me. I
should be a selfish cur to ask or to expect
it. I shall succeed some day, I suppose,
and then what shall I have in the world ?
Fame, fortune, and the opportunity of
looking at the happiness of the man — I
wonder who he will be ? — who has won the
only thing which would have made success
worth having. I am glad, though, that
Baring did not choose Mabel. That would
have been hard to bear, and yet how
natural ! But Connie ! Poor Baring !
Poor Connie ! "

Neither Baring nor Connie would have
thanked Hubert for his sympathy. They
were both distinctly contented with their
situation. The more Mr. Baring thought
of it, the more he liked the idea of Connie's
twenty thousand pounds, and the more
highly did he esteem Mrs. Simes's commonsense,
which had opened his eyes to the
prize he would have let slip out of mere
carelessness. It was, perhaps, irritating
to be disturbed so constantly at his work
by little notes from his fiancee, which had
to be answered on the spot, for the purpose
of reassuring her that he was well and
loved her still, nor was it much more
congenial to his spirit to have to accompany
her to various picture-galleries, there to
be obliged to listen to her raptures about
all the bad pictures, and her calm and
sweeping criticisms of those that were
tolerable or good.

Still, these were the days of probation.
He had shortened them as much as possible,
for he was to be married in six weeks,
which would give Connie time, as she said,
to prepare her trousseau and learn " all
about art."

For Constance had adopted a very high
idea of her duty towards her future husband.
She was going to learn all he
knew, so that he could talk to her about
his pictures, when he would soon find
out she was not such a silly little thing
as people thought her. For this reason
she made him take her to the picture-galleries,
where she honestly endeavoured
to see the differences between one picture
and another, with the result just mentioned.
She even came up to Mabel's
room one day with a drawing-board, a
pencil, and a piece of indiarubber.

I want you to teach me to draw, and
then to paint, dear," she said, as Mabel
looked up questioningly.

Repressing her very strong inclination
to laugh, Mabel gave her a lesson. At
the end of ten minutes, Connie jumped up
and stretched her cramped fingers.

"That'll do for to-day, dear, thank yon.
It doesn't seem so difficult after all. I
am sure I shall get on."

And day after day she came upstairs,,
and worked away at her board, reminding
Mabel of a child who does accounts to
be like father."

They saw a good deal of Mr. Baring
during those six weeks, for he dined and
spent the evening with them almost daily.
After dinner, George, who made a point
of being particularly frigid before Mr.
Baring, as became one of such noble

lineage and restricted means, retired into
his study with his wife, leaving Constance
and Mr. Baring to amuse themselves in
the drawing-room, with Mabel as chaperon.
Mabel by no means relished this position,
especially when she found it to mean that
she and Mr. Baring were to do all the
talking, Connie's interruptions being evidently
unwelcome to her lover. After the
first evening or two, she took to going upto
her own room, only reappearing in time
to say good night.

Even now she was unable to quite
make up her mind as to what she really
thought of the artist. Of course she
knew that such a man must wear a cloak
to all but his peers, and among them she
was quite certain he would never count
a woman. The Man in the Iron Mask
himself was not a greater mystery to

her than was this man whose genius the
whole world recognized, who would leave
immortal work behind him, to testify to
the wonderful powers of his brain and
hand. His genius was patent ; she had
known about that long before she had
known him — seen him, rather ; for she felt
she did not know him now.

What was he ? What did he think of ?
What lofty musings went on behind those
deep, impenetrable eyes ? Did he sneer
and mock at Connie's childish sayings, or
did he feel the all-excusing tenderness
which makes even the foolish speeches of
those we love sweet in our ears ? Or
perhaps he did not hear them, absorbed ashe
was in the mighty stream of grand
imaginings which flowed through his artist
brain, to find such perfect realization in
the work of his hand.

He had not asked her to sit again, and
she was glad of that, for it seemed to her
as if she had made a kind of vow in
Hubert's name not to do so. Poor Hubert!
He was very much on her mind. He was
getting on no better, from a pecuniary
point of view, while lately she had been
afraid that he was becoming more gloomy
and despondent than ever. And she was
so powerless to help him ! He was too
proud to speak of his love, and she could
not speak first. Had that been possible,
she would have told him that he need not
wait until fame came to him to ask her
to be his ; that she would rather work
with him than only reap with him ; that
together they would conquer, where singly
his strength might fail him. But no ; she
was a woman, and must obey the unwritten
law which men and women have

framed for themselves, often to the undoing
of both.

Mrs. Chesham was very much exercised
as to Connie's future habitation.

"I want to know," she said to Mabel,
how things are to be arranged. I consider,
and I am sure Hubert considers,
that I stand as nearly in the relation of a
mother to Constance as any one can ; and
what I wish to be told is, how about that
teapot, and all that that teapot implies ?
What about that dreadful old person, Mrs.
Simes, is it ? Is she to continue to live
in the house ? "

I'm sure I don't know, any more than
you do, mother," Mabel answered.

Well, we ought to know ; and if Connie
won't ask him, I will," said Mrs. Chesham,
courageously.

The very next day, therefore, Mrs.

Chesbarn, instead of accompanying George
in his retreat as usual, came upstairs with
the others, and prepared for the attack.

She first of all talked upon general
subjects, until Connie fretfully wished to
herself she would go downstairs, and then
gradually drew round to the question of
the wedding.

Only three weeks more ! How time
flies ! I suppose you have nearly finished
all your preparations, Mr. Baring ? "

Quite," answered Mr. Baring, composedly.


Did you have much trouble ? But I
suppose your good aunt helped you ? A
man is always so at sea in these things."

I have not made any changes in my
house, except one or two in the studio,"
observed Mr. Baring.

Oh — haven't you ? " faltered Mrs.

Chesham, finding, to her great disgust,
that she was somehow unable to say anymore.
" I thought — it is usual "

Mr. Baring waited for the end of the
sentence without the least change of
expression. As no end came, he said
quietly —

No, I have made no changes. I
thought Constance would be able to do
that at her own time and liking. It will
amuse her after we are married."

Yes, it will be much nicer so," assented
Connie, eagerly, with a by no means grateful
look at poor Mrs. Chesham, who felt
herself defeated, but thought it right to
make yet one more attempt.

And your aunt, Mrs. Simes ? I suppose
she will be Has she any children

of her own with whom she can live ? "

Mrs. Simes has no present intention

of leaving my house," said Mr. Baring,
frowning heavily.

Mrs. Chesham arose and fled, acknowledging
herself beaten, rather to Mabel's
amusement.

When they were left alone, Connie took
her favourite place, a stool at her lover's
feet — a reversal of the ancient position of
lovers.

Is — is — Mrs. Simes always going to
live with us, then, Stephen ? " she asked, ina
rather doleful tone.

My dear child," returned Mr. Baring,
with another frown, which Connie, however,
could not see, " what reason have
you for not wishing her to live with

US ?

I didn't say I did not wish her to ;
only — only — wouldn't it be nicer, Stephen,
to be by ourselves, quite alone ? "

Of course, if you insist upon it, it shall
be done. But I must say it seems rather
hard to turn a poor old woman, who has
served me faithfully for so long, into the
streets. She has no other relations and
no means."

But we could give her some ! " proposed
Connie, cheerfully. " Out of my
money, you know."

And besides," continued Baring, taking
no notice of Connie's remark, " she is a
very excellent housekeeper, and would take
all the worry and trouble of the place off
your hands."

Yes ; we should have to have a housekeeper,
of course," said Connie.

Of course ! " answered Baring, and
Connie detected no irony in his voice ;
and there you have one whom you are
quite certain of. And she is so fond of

you. Why, she is always singing your
praises ! "

Very well, dear," said Connie, with a
little sigh ; " of course, what you say must
be right, and I dare say I shan't mind her
when I've got used to her."

DOMESTIC ECONOMY.

Please, mum, will you give me out
some candles for the dining-room ; there
ain't but one, and that half burned,
there."

Mrs. Simes turned sharply round upon
the untidy-looking servant girl.

'* Give you out more candles ? Certainly
not ! We've never had more than
the one, and that gives quite sufficient
light."

I was only thinking that for a newly

VOL. I. 13

married couple " began the girl ; but

Mrs. Simes cut her short with —

Come now, be off to your work.
Your master will be here directly."

Old skin flint ! " muttered the girl, as
she went away.

No, no," thought old Mrs. Simes,
giving a finishing polish to the drawing-room
tables ; " we begin as we mean to
go on. Mrs. Baring must take us as weare,
and as we intend to be. Ah ! there
they are, I suppose " — as the front-door
bell pealed through the house.

After some delay, caused by Martha's
having paused in the act of cleaning her
boots, to wash her grimy hands, the door
was opened ; and Mrs. Simes, advancing
leisurely across the hall, beheld her
nephew, his newly married wife, and
Eobson, together with what seemed to

her a most preposterous amount of luggage,
which the cabman was unloading
with sundry groans and adjectives.

Connie came to meet her husband's aunt
with her old sweet smile.

Here we are at last ! ** she cried.
So tired and so hungry, are we not,
Stephen ? I thought the cab would never
get here ; it did crawl sou

Who's going to take all those enormous
boxes upstairs ? ' : inquired Mrs.
Simes sourly, somewhat gingerly returning
Connie's ready kiss — the first that had
fallen upon her withered cheek for many
a long year.

"All! Why, there are only two — mine
and Robson's, and Stephen's Gladstone
bag," laughed Connie. " I suppose the
rest of my things got here all right from
the Cheshams' ? "

Yes, they did," replied Mrs. Simes,
meaningly. " Is that cabman to come in,
Stephen ? "

I'm afraid Eobson can't carry the
boxes upstairs," said Connie.

You had better come in, Constance,
and leave your luggage to the servants,"
said Mr. Baring, laying his hand on his
wife's shoulder.

Constance instantly obeyed, and the two
disappeared behind the studio door.

Mrs. Simes, with anything but an
amiable look at Robson, was beginning
to bargain with the cabman about the
fare, when Robson quietly interrupted her
with —

Excuse me, ma'am, but I've paid the
man."

Mrs. Simes glared, but said nothing
for the moment ; and Robson, having

seen the luggage carried upstairs, followed
to unpack her mistress's things.

Martha showed her into a bedroom
which, although it compared favourably
in point of size with the one Connie had
occupied in Mrs. Chesham's house, was,
in its unfurnished bareness, a great contrast
to the smaller apartment so daintily
appointed by Mabel's loving fingers.

Robson clicked her tongue against the
roof of her mouth as she looked round.

What a barracks ! " she muttered.

u Ay, you may well say that ! ' responded
Martha, who was close behind
her, desirous of making a good impression
on this — to her — grand personage. " It
just is a barracks ; and as for the rations, as
you may call 'em, they're simply lawful."

Robson turned and looked at the girl,
in her tawdry coloured frock, her hair

tousled into a fringe in front, and fastened
up with gilt hair-pins behind — the very
antithesis of all that represented a respectable
and decent servant in Robson's eyes.

Have you been here long ? " she asked.

Two months," replied Martha, with a
sigh — " two months ; and I'm almost
wore to skin and bone. The old 'un don't
give us half enough to eat, and grudges
us that."

How many of you are there downstairs
? " asked Robson, with a lingering
hope that this might turn out to be only
a zealous scullery-maid.

There used to be only me," responded
Martha ; " but old Skinflint, she went
and hired a gal last week she calls a
cook, and she's been astrachan' her all
the week how to make something' out of
nothing'. I say, I wouldn't be your young

mistress for anything'. For she is young,
ain't she ? I only got just a look at her
before the master hurried her off, but
she seemed to be about my have. Whatever
possessed her to go and marry 'im 9
eh?"

A shrill call from Mrs. Simes relieved
Robson of the necessity of answering
Martha's question ; and, indeed, as it was
one which had been puzzling the good
woman herself for many weeks past, she '
would have found it hard enough to
answer.

Meanwhile, Connie was skirmishing
round the studio downstairs just in her
old manner.

Dear place ! How glad I am to see
it again ! You'll let me sit here with you
all day, won't you, Steve ? "

You can't when I'm painting from a

model," returned Baring, already busy
with his easels.

From a model ? Oh, but you won't
want any model but me," cried Connie.
I can be your model."

Baring smiled grimly.

You'd soon get tired of the occupation."


Oh, how unkind of you now ! " pouted
Connie. " Didn't I sit to you for hours
and hours when I was not your wife, and
can't I do the same for you now that
I am ? "

Well, well, we'll see," said Baring,
moving a pile of sketches from one table
to another.

I should like to go and change my
dress for dinner," observed Connie, presently,
" and Robson must get me a cup
of tea. Will you have one, Stephen ? "

No, thanks," said the artist, going
over to where the lay figure stood.

Not even if I bring it you myself?' 1
asked his wife, coaxingly.

No, thank you," he repeated, without
the least change of tone ; and Connie
went towards the door.

She had already touched the handle,
when she turned back and, coming softly
up to her husband, put her arms round
his neck from behind, and whispered in
his ear —

Do you love me, Stephen ? "

Mr. Baring's face was hidden from her,
but a faint expression of weariness in his
voice, as he replied almost mechanically,
Yes, dearest," would have struck any one
more keen of observation than Constance.
She, however, seemed perfectly satisfied,
and, with a bright " Good-bye," disappeared.

Left alone, Baring straightened himself,
and looked round the studio, glad to be
back again in the only place which meant
home to him. His eye wandered lovingly
over each familiar object, and as it rested
at last on the sketch of the picture he was
going to paint next, which he had already
put upon an easel, his features relaxed, his
fingers itched to be at work, Connie and
"Robson faded into the background, and
Stephen Baring, Royal Academician, was
alone with his Art once more.

When, half an hour later, Connie trailed
into the room, arrayed in a smart evening
gown, she found her husband hard at
work, and the studio looking as if he had
never been away for an hour.

He glanced up reluctantly when she
spoke to him, and, when he saw her, said
with a frown —

What on earth have you dressed yourself
up like that for ? You don't intend
to go out to-night, do you ? "

"No, of course not," answered Constance,
surprised. " I have only dressed for
dinner, as usual. Are you not going
to?"

Baring laughed.

No, not quite," he said, turning back
to his work again. " I am not a fine
gentleman. It is exceedingly absurd of
you to do it ; but, of course, you can please
yourself."

Connie's under-lip drooped. "

I didn't suppose — I thought — I thought
it was all right. I have always done it
all my life. It seemed only natural."

Baring shrugged his shoulders and
worked on in silence. Connie watched
him with a face from which the usual contented

expression was missing. Presently
she said timidly —

I shall want a great many things,
Stephen dear, that are not in my room.
There seem to be no hot water cans, and
there is no long looking-glass — and "

Constance," said Baring, laying down
his brushes, and turning round so as to
face his wife, " we had better understand
one another once for all. I am afraid that
you have overlooked the fact that I ama
working-man "

Oh, how horrid, Stephen, to call yourself
that, just as if you were a carpenter
or a knife-grinder ! "

— a working-man who has his living
to get. I thought you understood that."

So I did, so I do ; but I don't see
what that has to do with my dressing for
dinner."

Simply that I cannot afford to live
like people whose income does not depend
upon themselves. I work hard, and I have
no desire to squander the money I earn."

But surely I can afford to do as I've
always done with my own money ? " said
Connie.

Mr. Baring put up his hand to his
mouth, while he looked at her reflectively.
She was very good to look at in her pale-blue
frock, which so exactly suited her hair
and complexion. But there was no pleasure
in the artist's eyes as he contemplated
her. He said abruptly —

Don't you know that the way your
dress is made is perfectly hideous ? "

Connie looked down at herself deprecatingly.


Oh, please, Stephen, don't be so cross !
I won't dress for dinner, or wear this

again, if you don't like. I am sure I don't
care. And you'll let me get those things
I want, won't you ? "

We can see about that," said Baring.
Now, if you could manage to keep quiet
for a minute or two."

Connie sat, hardly daring to breathe,
while Baring worked away for another
half-hour, at the end of which Mrs. Simes
rather acidly informed him that dinner
was ready.

We must get a gong, dear," said
Connie, slipping her arm through his ashe
reluctantly obeyed the summons.

I dislike a gong," answered her husband,
dryly, and said no more until they
reached the dining-room, whither Mrs.
Simes had preceded them.

Connie looked round with amazement
at the shabbily laid table, lighted by a

solitary candle, while the sideboard, before
which stood Martha with a very sulky
expression on her stolid features, was in
utter darkness.

If Connie was surprised, Mrs. Simes was
no less so.

Bless me, what's that for ? " she exclaimed,
without the least ceremony, pointing
at Connie's dress.

It's all right, aunt," interposed Baring.
Constance thought we were grand people,
sticklers for the correct thing."

Mrs. Simes gave a contemptuous laugh ;
Martha stared open-eyed at her young
mistress.

Never in her life before — at least, to her
own knowledge, for she had been too young
to remember her father's penurious days —
had Connie sat down to such a meal, served
in such utter desolation. She thought of

her aunt's stately table, with its beautiful
flowers and glittering silver and glass,
waited upon by noiseless men-servants ;
Mrs. Chesham's dining-room rose before
her, with its pretty oval table and less
costly, but no less perfect, appointments,
and the neat and well-trained parlour-maid.
She looked at the common crockery
and glass, she handled the dull spoons and
forks, she gazed as far as the very circumscribed
area of light would allow her, and
she felt her heart sink within her. What
did it mean ? Were they savages, or what ?
It had never occurred to her that people
had different styles and modes of living.
She had divided the world into two classes —
the rich, or the well-off, who were all ladies
and gentlemen, and lived as such ; and the
poor, who were not ladies and gentlemen,
and did not live as such.

She knew that Baring was reputed to
make large sums of money, so he could not
be poor. Why, then, did he live like this ?
She was so deeply engrossed in thought
that she remained almost silent, and as
neither her husband nor his aunt seemed
to have much to say, the meal was nota
lively one.

When, at its end, Baring got up, Connie
rose too, saying — ■

Are you going back to the studio,
Stephen ? Or shall we sit in the drawing-room
■? "

I-am going to the studio," answered
Baring. " But you needn't come. Do as
you like."

Perhaps you will be lonely if I go
with Stephen ? " Connie said hesitatingly
to Mrs. Simes.

Oh, you needn't think about me," that

VOL. I. 14

lady rejoined. "I have a hundred things
to see to downstairs."

Connie stared. What could there be to
see to " at that time of the evening ?

Then I'll come with you, Stephen," she
said.

But Mr. Baring had already departed,
without waiting for her.

Feeling somewhat desolate, Connie
crossed the dimly lighted hall, and went
into the drawing-room. It was in perfect
darkness, and there was no fire. She
groped her way to the bell, and rang it.
After a long interval Martha appeared,
and Connie, from the hall, said rather
fretfully —

"Bring some lights, please, and light
the drawing-room fire."

Yes, mum," said Martha, after a
pause.

She went downstairs, and Connie, finding
waiting in the hall very chilly, went
across to the studio, and softly opened the
door. The room was brilliantly lighted
by the sun-burner, and a large fire of
logs burned cheerily in the old-fashioned
chimney. Her husband, who was standing
by a table filling his pipe, looked up with
a slightly annoyed expression.

Connie came in and shut the door. She
walked over to the fire, and spread out her
hands, which were very cold. She felt
chilly all over, poor little soul ! The homecoming,
to which she had looked forward
so eagerly, had turned out very differently
from her anticipations ; she was disappointed,
and as much puzzled as disappointed.
She could not understand any
of it.

I went into the drawing-room," she

said presently, " but there was no fire
and no lights there. Wasn't that funny ? "
I fail to see the humour of the situation,"
returned her husband, striking a
match for his pipe.

Connie raised her eyebrows.
"But where does Mrs. Simes sit in the
evening ? You told me she never comes
in here."

I'm sure I don't know," said Baring ina
voice which implied, " And I'm sure I
don't care."

I told them to light the fire, but it
looks so cosy in here, that I don't think I
shall go back. You like to have me with
you, don't you, Stephen ? "

Yes," said Stephen, with his pipe
between his teeth.

Come and sit down here, and let us
have a nice talk, will you, Steve ? "

Mr. Baring's brow contracted.

Well, just for this once. But I can't
be made to waste my time, Constance. I
have a great deal to get through before
the Academy opens."

He came to the fire, and threw himself
into a capacious arm-chair before it.

Constance drew her chair close to his,
and laid her hand upon his knee.

You surely needn't want to work the
very first evening ? " she said reproachfully.
What do you suppose is to become of me ?
Why, Stephen, you are actually smoking
a pipe ! "

What is there astonishing in that ? "

"Oh, only that I've never seen you
smoke anything but cigars. You always
had cigars all the time we were away."

Yes, and infernally dear I found them.
At home I always smoke a pipe."

Oh! " said Constance. After a minute,
she asked, " Stephen, are you poor ? I
never thought about it before, but to-night

I fancied that perhaps I mean, as

we are at home now, I should like to
mow.

Of course I'm poor," said her husband,
looking coldly at her. " I never pretended
to be anything else."

But still, you make a great deal of
money, don't you ? "

Depends what you call a great deal."

Your income is larger than mine, isn't
it?"

"I wonder, Constance," observed Baring
slowly, " whether you think it in good
taste to be continually talking about your
income in the way you do."

1 — I — didn't suppose you minded ! '
said Connie in a very surprised tone.

Any man would mind. Besides, I
don't know why you say i my ' income.
Your income and mine make but one —
they are not separate."

Of course not, Stephen," answered
Connie submissively ; " I never meant
they were. You can have all my money
if you like."

Baring's mouth twitched slightly.

After a pause, Constance said, " I only
asked because — because — everything is so .
different from what I've been "

Accustomed to ? " Baring finished for
her. " I suppose you mean that my house
is not kept up with the same disregard of
expense as your aunt's or Mrs. Chesham's ?
You must understand, my dear, that I aman
enemy to waste ; I dislike and abhor it,
and will have none of it. You must leave
off your old habits of luxury, which were

all very well in your old life, but are — ■ —
What on earth is the matter now ? "

For Cod stance had flung herself back in
her chair, and was crying convulsively.

It is too hard," she sobbed. " If I had
known I wasn't to dress for dinner, or have
a fire in the drawing-room, I wouldn't
have married you."

Mr. Baring stood up. This kind ol
thing was new to him.

Be quiet, Constance ! " he said. " How
can you behave so ? "

But Constance only rocked herself to
and fro, and sobbed the louder.

Her husband laid a not very gentle
hand on her shoulder.

Constance ! " he said severely.

Constance glanced up with streaming
eyes, and then, to Baring's dismay, began
to laugh hysterically. ■

He strode to the door, and holding it
open, shouted impatiently for Robson, who
came running downstairs with wonderful
quickness for a woman of her age.

Here, your mistress is ill," he said in
the abrupt, disagreeable tone which always
roused Robson's anger, although she was
beginning to become accustomed to it by
this time.

She hurried past him, and up to Connie,
who was now in a regular hysterical fit.

My poor lamb, what is it ? " she
asked, gathering her into her motherly
arms.

Connie clung close to her, but continued
to laugh and cry alternately.

Robson looked up after a minute and
said, " If you'll be good enough to ring
the bell, if you please, sir, and tell the
maid to get the sal volatile off my mistress's

dressing-table ; or perhaps you wouldn't
mind getting it yourself, as she's so bad,
poor thing ! "

Baring stalked out of the studio with a
brow as black as night. He had not bargained
for scenes like this with the twenty
thousand pounds.

Be quiet, Miss Connie ! " said Robson,
firmly, as soon as he had left the room ;
be quiet directly. You're a naughty
girl to go on like this."

At the decisive voice, Constance made a
visible effort to control herself, and Robson
scolded and coaxed her until Mr. Baring
returned with the sal volatile.

A dose of this brought Connie to herself,
and as soon as she was better Robson took
her away to bed.

"When they had reached the bedroom,
Constance fell on her knees before the bed,

buried her face in the counterpane, and
began to cry afresh.

Come now, child ; no more nonsense,"
said Robson.

Constance suddenly got up and began
walking backwards and forwards. " There
was no fire — no light. He scolded me for
having dressed for dinner. He says he is
very poor. Robson, did you see what
there was for dinner ? Dinner ! ' ; she
repeated mockingly. " Do you think they
are mad in this house ? "

Mad ! No, of course not. It's only
that Mrs. Simes ; she's no lady, and as
stingy as a miser. There's nothing to
make such a fuss about, Miss Connie. It's
your house, and you can make any changes
you like. But things can't be done all in
one evening. There now, dry your eyes,
and let me brush your hair by the fire.

THE ACADEMICIAN.

See what a nice one it is. I made Martha
light it myself."

Connie allowed her hair to be brushed
for a long time, until she felt soothed ; and
Robson put her to bed, quite determined
to open a campaign against the miserly
Mrs. Simes the very next day.

A WINDFALL.

As was only natural, Mabel had felt Connie's
departure very much. The two girls
had been so constantly together, Connie
had demanded so much of Mabel's time
and thought, that there seemed quite a
blank left in the latter 's existence. Connie's
presence had been good for her, too ; it had
forced her to brighten up to the wholesome
occupations and interests of a girl's life,
which seemed somehow or other to have
slipped away from her in the solitariness
of the days passed between her mother

and step-father. She had felt younger,
had looked less at things, had lived in
them more, and had found herself all the
happier for so doing. And now that she
was left alone again she missed the daily
walks, the absorbing conversations that
she had sometimes thought so frivolous,
which occupied whole afternoons from
luncheon to tea-time, to decide some momentous
question of dress or fashion. How
often had she wished that Constance would
let her paint for an hour without sidling
into the room, to " sit as still as a mouse,"
as she said, but in reality to chatter away
and meddle with all Mabel's things, until
she suddenly remembered that the smell of
turpentine was an abomination, and Mabel
must come down to her sitting-room and
make tea !

Now Mabel could paint for as many

hours as she liked, without fear of being
disturbed ; and though she severely called
herself an unreasonable mortal, she missed
the old interruption sadly.

Mrs. Chesham, too, was sorry that Constance
had gone, but for other reasons.
George had taken the marriage very badly
■ — quite as a personal affront. He had
never relaxed his disagreeable manner
towards Mr. Baring, who, however, remained
to the last in the most utter unconsciousness
of his offence. On the
wedding-day itself he had first refused to
go to the church at all, and when his wife,
after an exhausting process of persuasion,
had at length got him there, he behaved
exactly as if he had been a rejected suitor,
attracting every one's attention by his sighs
and groans.

He had denounced Baring as a " mountebank,"

and said Constance was a " fool."
After which, he had shut himself up again,
to consume a really startling amount of
patent medicine and three-volume novels.
1 le had been in the last stage of irritability
and crossness ever since. At every meal
he sniffed at the food, and " supposed that
now anything was good enough for him."
He scowled at Mabel and snubbed her
whenever she opened her mouth, and spoke
so savagely to the parlour-maid, who was
under notice to leave, that she said downstairs
that " if it were not for Miss Mabel
and the mistress, she'd have forfeited her
month's wages and been off at once."

In the midst of this somewhat gloomy
state of affairs the horizon suddenly
lightened. Mrs. Chesham came into som
money — not a large fortune, but enough
to fully compensate for Connie's loss.

The history of this legacy was a romantic
one. A cousin of Mrs. Chesham's had
been desperately in love with her some
thirty years before. Knowing that ibis
suit was hopeless, be had emigrated to
Australia, bad gone into trade, had
married, bad children, and made money.
When his will was read, his widow, somewhat
to her surprise, found that he bad
left the sum of seven thousand pounds to
a cousin in England, whose name she had
never even heard before.

Seven thousand pounds out of a quarter
of a million had not seemed much to the
Australian merchant, but it meant a very
great deal to Mrs. Chesham. She had
known well enough that John Vaughan
had loved her, and deep down in a corner
of her own heart bad always kept a kindly
remembrance of him. The recollection

VOL. 1. 15

grew and flourished now ; " poor John "
became " dear John ; ,! and if John
Vaughan were in any place in which the
blessings and gratitude of two women
could reach him, he must have found himself
well repaid for that stroke of the
pen which meant the memory of a lifetime.


His wife's legacy gave Mr. Chesham an
opportunity for much anxious consideration.
His wife had never mentioned
this John Vaughan ,J to him. That in
itself was strange, for he had believed that
her whole life was well known to him.
Why should this man have left his wife
seven thousand pounds ? Mr. Chesham
kept his brain too well fertilized with
romances for it not to bear appropriate and
abundant crops. After a whole day devoted
to the subject, he suddenly evolved

a theory, from which future explanations
and reasonings were powerless to move
him.

This John Vaughan," as created by
Mr. Chesham, was a cousin-lover of his
wife's, who had in some manner — by theft,
forgery, or even perhaps murder, but let
that pass — put himself within reach of the
law. He had been transported to Botany
Bay — the dates very nearly allowed this
to be possible — where his superior education
and talents had enabled them to come
to the front, and to found the business
which had produced such satisfactory
results. He, Mr. Chesham, knew perfectly
well that all the largest merchants in
Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, were either
reformed convicts themselves, or the descendants
of those earlier settlers who had,
two or three generations back, borne a

broad arrow rampant as their crest, to
which they might have added " Ici dien '
as motto.

In vain did Mrs. Chesham, aghast at
such a dreadful notion, explain over andover
again that John had left England
with the consent and approbation of his
father, a clergyman long since dead, holding
a living in one of the northern counties.
Mr. Chesham was obstinate.

No doubt, my dear — no doubt his
father consented. Poor man, he had not
much choice left him."

I think it is perfectly shameful of you,
George, to say such wicked, abominable

things about a man who so kindly thought

f»>
us.

Of you, love, of you," said Mr. Chesham,
raising a deprecatory, boneless-looking
white hand. " Pray remember that this —

ahem ! — gentleman was no relation whatever
to me."

I wonder you take the money, if you
think so badly of mother's cousin," Mabel,
who was present, could not help saying.

Mr. Chesham turned his eyes slowly
on his step-daughter, then up to the
ceiling, moved heavily in his arm-chair,
and finally said —

Before giving vent to your exceedingly
interesting remarks, Mabel, it might
be as well to wait and ascertain whether
they are to the point or not. You can,
I think, always leave my own self-respect
in my own hands. I was just about to say
to your mother that, this legacy of hers
having come from so very suspicious a
source, it would, of course, be out of the
question for me to make use of it in
any way."

Good gracious, George ! " exclaimed
Mrs. Chesham ; " have you taken leave of
your senses ? "

No, my dear love, I have not, although
the temptation to bid farewell to those
imperious rulers of our lives has at times,
I confess, assailed me. At this present
moment, however, they are with me, all
seven."

But what do you propose doing with
the money ? " gasped his poor little wife.

Mr. Chesham folded his hands, and
seemed prepared to give the matter the
most cheerful consideration.

Well, my dear, there are hospitals, and
charitable institutions, and societies. Let
me see — suppose I make you a little list,
and then we can decide together."

Mrs. Chesham cast her despairing eyes
towards her daughter. Mabel was leaning

back in her chair with an amused, but
distinctly scornful, smile on her features.
Suddenly the little woman's face lighted
up ; she turned towards her husband.

Why, George, you are forgetting ! '
she said. " Neither you nor I can touch
the capital of this money. It goes into
my settlement."

Mr. Chesham gave a tragic start.

So it does, so it does. I had forgotten.
Of course, as that is so, my dear, the discussion
is closed. We must try to forget
what Fate has left us no escape
from."

There is the interest," suggested Mabel,
mischievously. " You could divide that
between the hospitals, and institutions, and
societies."

It is a fine day, my love," said Mr.
Chesham, looking at his wife. " I should

like my books changed, if any one be at
leisure'

Any one " meaning Mabel, she collected
the volumes, and beat a retreat, with a
more amused and disrespectful smile than
ever.

There was no further question about
the legacy ; and Mrs. Chesham, to whom
no number of years could give a comprehension
of her husband's tortuous ways
of thought, and who always believed that
George meant everything he said, allowed
herself to be comforted.

This scene had taken place during
Constance's honeymoon. A day or two
after Mabel knew they had returned, she
was making up her mind to go that afternoon
and call upon Mrs. Baring, when
Connie anticipated her intention by bursting
into her studio like a whirlwind.

After rapturous greetings, Connie said —

Now go on painting, and let's talk.
Ugh ! horrid turpentine ! But I live in
it now — I believe I wash my face in it
every morning, so never mind. Tell me
all you've been doing. How is dear Mrs.
Chesham ? They told me downstairs she
was out."

Yes ; she's gone to do some shopping,"
said Mabel.

Ha ! ha ! So am I. I am to buy —
1 a pair of chickens, my dear. Mind, you
must not give more than two and fourpence
each, and get the very largest you
can.

Two and fourpence ! " ejaculated
Mabel.

Yes ; four and eighteen the two."

Is that your housekeeping ? '' asked
Mabel, smiling.

"Not mine. Mrs. Simes's."
Do you get on well with her ? "
Connie assumed a doleful expression.
She's a most horrid old woman. She
almost starves the servants ; and as for

poor me "

« How does Robson like that ? "
She doesn't like it at all. She and
Mrs. Simes hate each other, and I hate
Mrs. Simes. You don't know how dreadful
she is, Mabel."

Perhaps she will get better if you
are friendly with her, and get your own
way artfully," said Mabel, although her
hopes of Connie's tact were but small.

No ; there's no chance of that. She
is a born miser. She has not the remotest
idea of how a lady lives. To hear her
talk, you'd think Stephen and I were
paupers."

Is Mr. Baring very busy yet ? " asked
Mabel, more for the sake of changing the
subject than anything else.

Oh yes, he's busy ; at least, he stays
in the studio from the time he gets up
until he goes to bed," said Connie, in
the same fretful tone she had fallen into
after her first few words. " I can tell
you, Mabel, you needn't be in a hurry
to be married. It's awfully dull. I think
my aunt was a wise woman."

Mabel made some jesting answer, but
she was inwardly dismayed at Connie's
evident dissatisfaction. She said to herself,
however, that neither Mr. Baring nor
his wife were people who would easily
fall into each other's ways, and that time
would probably mend and soften matters.
She had so often felt that if she were a
man, Constance's childish, inconsequent

chatter would be almost intolerable, that
she could not help sympathizing very
strongly with Mr. Baring. He had
brought it on himself, though, and must
learn to make the best of things, both
for himself and his young wife, whose
faults were only those of nature. She
talked and laughed until Connie's pretty
face lost its unwonted air of despondency,
although even then Mabel noticed a certain
softness about her which savoured
more of genuine affection and less of
indolent dependence than of old.

After an hour she rose regretfully, and
said she must go.

Won't you stay to luncheon ? " asked
Mabel.

No ; I must go home. But I'll tell
you what, Mab. You come home w T with
me. Oh, do, do ! "

Mabel saw no reason for resisting
Connie's evidently sincere pleading, and
in a few minutes the girls set out together.

We must take a hansom," Connie said,
when they were in the street. " It's
expensive, but I can't help that. I'm so
tired."

Why, Connie, you're as bad as Mrs.
Simes ! " laughed Mabel.

Oh, that's not me," returned Constance,
with a shake of her head. "It's Stephen.
He says cabs are luxuries, and that I
ought to go in an omnibus. Just fancy,
Mabel ! "

When they arrived at the artist's house,
Constance paid the cabman in a hurried
manner, and waited until he had driven
off before she rang the bell.

Miss Moore will stay to luncheon," sbe
said to Martha, when that stolid young

person had at length opened the door, and
they had gone in.

Come up to my room," Connie went
on, taking hold of Mabel's arm.

In the bedroom they found Robson, a
very much more grim and sad-faced Robson
than Mabel had ever seen before.

She greeted Mabel warmly, and then
busied herself about her young mistress
in the tender, all-comprehensive manner
which had rendered Connie almost as helpless
as an infant, and which always made
Mabel expect to see her friend finished off
with a clean pinafore and a kiss.

Robson had managed to make the bedroom
a very different place from what
it had been a few days before, but all the
same it struck Mabel as bare and unhoped
Robson noticed her glance round.

Not much like Miss Connie's room in

your mamma's house, ma'am, is it?" she
said acidly. " But never mind. We'll

make it cosy yet, in spite "

She finished the sentence in an inaudible
murmur, for she was very anxious to make
the best of things, for her excitable nursling's
sake.

Mabel felt rather sad as they went downstairs
together. She had certainly not
expected things to be as bad as this.

Luncheon was ready. Mr. Baring and 1
Mrs. Simes were already seated.

The artist welcomed Mabel with particular
politeness, Mrs. Simes with as
particular coolness. The latter had no
intention of encouraging Constance's
visitors, and least of all this bosom friend
of hers.

Constance took her seat, not at the head
of the table — that was already occupied by

Mrs. Simes — but at her husband's left hand,
leaving the other side for Mabel.

I am afraid we have nothing to offer
your friend that she will like, Mrs.
Baring," Mrs. Simes took the opportunity
of saying, the instant there was a pause
in the conversation.

I dare say not," Connie returned in the
tone of a sulky school-girl.

Oh, anything will do for me," said
Mabel, flushing.

Mr. Baring appeared not to have heard
these remarks, but went on cutting some
very hard cold salt beef with perfect unconcern.


The beef was quite good enough for
Mabel, whose appetite was too healthy
to be dainty. The evidently contented
manner in which she ate her luncheon
won her several approving glances from

Mrs. Simes, although that lady considered
that the guest's appreciation had been
quite sufficiently marked, and that there
was no occasion for her to have accepted
a second helping, a weakness of which
Mrs. Simes herself had not been guilty
since she had arrived at years of discretion.

Constance, on the other hand, sat and
regarded her plate in stony silence, then
took up her knife and fork, put an infinitesimal
morsel between her lips, and finally,
with a gesture expressive of disgust, folded
her hands in her lap, and asked for a piece
of bread.

Are you ill, Mrs. Baring ? " inquired
Mrs. Simes, with some asperity.

Oh no, thanks," answered Connie,
languidly.

You seem to have no appetite," said
Mrs. Simes, severely.

vol. 1. 16

Constance looked at the offending rather
thick slice of beef, raised her eyebrows,
and drawled out a " No " which made
Mabel long to shake her.

Mr. Baring had been talking to Mabel.
She had asked a question about their recent
journey, and he was enumerating the
places at which he and his wife had
stayed.

Was Paris as nice as you had thought
it would be, Connie ? " Mabel asked.

No," Connie answered very decisively.
I'd thought it was lovely shops, and
instead of that, there were only more
picture-galleries there than anywhere else.
Oh, that horrid Louvre ! You remember,
Mabel, how I always longed to see the
Louvre shop, and Stephen never would
take me in once.?

Mr. Baring laughed, and Mabel joined

him. Picture-galleries were dearer thana
shop to her, too.

Did you go to the play at all ? "

No," said Baring. " It's only a waste
of money and time to go and see those
French fellows play, when you can't follow
the language very well."

No ; and although I told Stephen that
if he couldn't understand, I could, and
begged him at least to take me once to the
Francis, he wouldn't," said Connie.

Mr. Baring seemed in no wise disconcerted
or displeased at his wife's indiscretions
of speech. On the contrary, he
laughed in a satisfied manner, and looked
at Connie, Mabel thought, very kindly.

Mabel had never liked the artist so well
before. Mr. Baring was purposely taking
a good deal of trouble towards this end,
for he wanted to make Mabel feel at home

in his house. He did not find it difficult
to talk to her, since he knew she was
genuinely and intelligently interested in
art, and on art he was always ready to talk.
Mabel admired the enthusiasm that rose
to his eye, and which made the upper part
of his face as noble as she could have
imagined an ancient Greek painter's to
have been. At the same time, she could
not help noticing the discrepancies between
the artist's ideas and the language he used
to express them. It seemed so odd to hear
one of the greatest of living French painters,
whose method was not approved of by Mr.

Baring, described as "that duffer S ,"

and to be told that another man's work
"riled" him "awfully."

But the next moment she told herself
that elegance of diction was, after all, nota
primary necessity, and blamed herself for

exercising so freely what Mr. Chesham
ironically termed " her valuable critical
faculty."

As soon as luncheon was over, Mr. Baring
led the way to the studio, where he had
some sketches he wanted Mabel to see.

Constance, who had ostentatiously eaten
hardly anything, threw herself into a chair
without a glance at what her husband had
been doing that morning, and began at
once, fretfully —

I can't stand it, Stephen. I shall be
starved to death soon."

Baring, without turning from the portfolio
over which he was bending, said
quietly, " What are you talking about,
Constance ? "

Mrs. Simes's housekeeping. She knows
I can't eat that kind of food, and yet she
pays not the slightest attention. Would

you believe it, Mabel, we had that dreadful
salt beef twice yesterday — once at
luncheon and again in the evening ? And
so it will go on until it is finished."

We'll have some chocolate creams on
purpose for you tomorrow, Connie," said
Baring, in the tone one uses to a peevish
child.

I don't want chocolate creams. Don't
be so absurd, Stephen. I only want something
I can eat, and I'm sure that's not
much to ask for — is it, Mabel ? ,!

Mabel looked at her reproachfully without
speaking. She felt very angry with
Connie.

I wish," Constance went on, after pausing
for the answer from Mabel which did
not come — " I wish, Stephen, that you
would let Robson do the housekeeping.
Poor Mrs. Simes is so totally incapable,

and Robson knows all about that sort of
thing so well."

Baring turned sharply and looked at
Constance. He said not a word, but after
a moment Constance flung round in her
chair with a muttered exclamation ; after
which an embarrassing silence, as it seemed
to Mabel, ensued. She was the first to
break it.

Isn't that a new piano ? " she asked
Baring, looking across at the instrument
which occupied the top wall of the studio.

No ; it was always here, only not in
that place," answered the artist. " Do you
play at all ? "

Yes," said Mabel ; and Mr. Baring
noticed the omission of the usually inevitable
" a little."

Play now," he said, in the quietly
authoritative manner which somehow so

few people, especially women, felt inclined
to disobey.

Mabel walked over to the piano, Mr.
Baring's eye following her free, graceful,
and thoroughly unconscious movements
with a keen sense of pleasure. He sat
down where he could see her to the best
advantage, and, without troubling himself
to ask either of the girls' permission,
lighted his pipe.

Mabel found the piano an excellent one.
She began to play softly, without the
customary formula of a pretended indecision
as to her choice, and a sudden inspiration,
which seems the prelude to nearly
every girl's performance.

Mabel's music was a great part of her.
It was not like any one else's music ; it
seemed to belong to her, to have become
in some subtle way individualized with

her. Her little brother had once said of
it, " Mab's music is so friendly ; ,? and Mrs.
Chesham felt that she knew exactly what
the child meant, although every one had
laughed at the expression. It was friendly,
for it did just what a friend should do. It
was firm and strong; there was no half-touch,
no hesitation, no weak slurring over,
with a pretence at brilliancy. The piano
seemed to be having its very best qualities
drawn out of it, instead of being used only
as the long-suffering means of exhibiting
the performer's sleight of hand ; although
there was no want of spirit and decision,

the effect was purely one of sweetness and
tenderness, the pathetic and simple predominating
over the exuberant and intricate.
It was the very music for an artist ;
and Mr. Baring, as he leaned back, lazily
puffing out volumes of smoke, with his

eyes fixed on Mabel's beautiful face, on
which the expression continually varied as
she played, felt that he had done very well
for himself in marrying a wife who had
twenty thousand pounds, and such an exceedingly
charming friend into the bargain.
He said " Go on " several times when
Mabel paused ; but at last she rose from
the piano, rather wondering that Constance
remained so absolutely silent. She went
round to her arm-chair, and found that
Mrs. Baring had temporarily forgotten her
woes. Connie was fast asleep, curled up
in the big chair, with one little palm supporting
her head, and so child-like an expression
of peace on her innocent features,
that Mabel felt the displeasure which had
arisen in her heart against her die away as
she looked at her. She drew Mr. Baring's
attention to his wife.

How pretty Connie looks ! You ought
to paint her so," she said.

Baring looked at the Sleeping Beauty
with indifference. " Not in my line," he
said shortly ; and then, beginning to refill
his pipe — " Won't you go on playing ?
That was a very jolly thing you played
just now."

A jolly thing ! " Mabel felt as if she
had had a cold douche. It happened to
have been an Andante of Beethoven's,
which bit Mabel never could play without
feeling it to her very soul.

Mr. Baring apparently appreciated it
also, but oh, why could he not say so in
terms less grating !

She went back and played on for sometime,
Mr. Baring after a while getting up
and going on with his painting. The
studio was perfectly quiet, and Mabel had

almost forgotten that she was not in the
drawing-room at home, when the door was
flung open and Martha's untrained voice
roughly announced, " Mr. Durant."

It was Hubert, come to pay his first visit
to his newly married sister. His eyes
brightened as he perceived Mabel ; he hind
not seen her since Constance's wedding-day.


Baring received his brother-in-law
politely, if not over-cordially.

Constance, aroused by Martha's voice,
sat up, half dazed, and blinked at him ; but
directly she had made him out, flew at
him, embracing him with an ardour to
which he was wholly unaccustomed.

Dear old Hubert, I am so glad to see
you ! Why didn't you come sooner ? "

I've been away, painting a portrait."

You poor absurd boy ! So you haven't

given up yet ! Take my advice, Hubert,
and do something else. It's a very uninteresting
profession, even if one happens to
be a genius, like Stephen ; but when one's
not even that, like "

Me," laughed Hubert. " Bravo,
Connie ! that's most encouraging."

The two men began to talk, and Mabel
and Connie sat near each other, Connie
seeming half inclined to doze again.
Mabel thought Hubert looking very
fagged and worn, and although he appeared
cheerful enough, she noticed how every
now and then his features fell into a settled
expression of almost sullen despondency,
which she never remembered to have seen
on them before.

Come up to my room," Connie
whispered presently ; and they went up
accordingly.

Oh, that continual art, art ! How I
hate it ! " groaned Constance, as they
mounted the stairs.

But, Constance, you shouldn't have
married an artist, if you never wanted to
hear him speak about art ! "

I don't see that he need talk about it.
If one married a butcher, one wouldn't
want to hear about nothing but raw joints
for the rest of one's days."

This seemed perfectly reasonable to
Mabel, but she felt that it was a different
thing.

Did you see how Stephen stopped my
complaining of Mrs. Simes ? He always
does. His one answer is that she is invaluable."


I think he was quite right to mind
your speaking so before me," said Mabel,
determined, since Connie had begun, tolet

her know what she thought of her
behaviour.

Why shouldn't I speak before you ? "
asked Connie, surprised.

Husbands and wives don't, as a rule,
quarrel or reprove each other before a
third person."

I wasn't quarrelling or reproving,"
cried Connie. " I will tell him — everyday
— what I think of Mrs. Simes. I shall
go on until he sends her away. You don't
know half I have to put up with from that
woman."

u Behaving so foolishly yourself won't
make her in the wrong," said Mabel.

Connie, in self-defence, launched forth
into a long and confused account of her
sufferings under Mrs. Simes's iron rule.
A good deal of it, if it had been told
calmly and reasonably, was really annoying

enough ; but, as it was, Mabel could
only gather a vague impression of what
seemed to her very petty details, magnified
wholly beyond their real importance. A
young and, therefore, severe judge, she was
inclined to put down all Connie's discomfort
to one person, namely, Connie herself.

Constance saw that she was not sympathized
with, and felt all the angrier. She
ended her tirade with —

I see you don't care a bit. I shall go
down to the studio, and insist, before
Hubert, on Stephen's dismissing Mrs.
Simes ! "

Connie, Connie, you must not do anything
of the sort," said Mabel, holding her
fast. " Your husband would never forgive
you, and Hubert would not like to come
here any more. Robson, persuade Mrs.
Baring to calm herself."

Robson had just come into the room.
She pushed Connie, who was fast working
herself up into her customary state of
excitement when contradicted, back into
her chair, with a sharp word or two
which had instant effect. Connie's heat
subsided as quickly as it had arisen, and
in another half-hour she was following
Mabel downstairs to tea, talking away as
merrily as if no such person as Mrs. Simes
existed.

Mrs. Simes had very reluctantly given
in to the custom of daily afternoon tea,
after a sharp fight on the point with Constance.
She continued to protest against
the extravagance, however, by never
honouring the meal with her appearance,
a deprivation which, it must be confessed,
Constance bore with the utmost cheerfulness.


VOL. 1. 17

Mabel accepted Hubert's offer of walking
home with her, and took leave of
Connie, promising to come again soon.

Mind you do," were Baring's last
words to her, accompanied by a full lookout
of the eyes that seemed to see so much
and so far.

Connie is getting on all right, I
think," observed Hubert, who would
probably only have noticed anything
wrong if he had seen Constance scream
and cry.

Yes," said Mabel. " How have you
been progressing lately ? "

As brilliantly as ever," answered
Hubert, with a sharp laugh. "I shall be
President soon ! "

"When will you be patient V asked
Mabel, reproachfully.

I am patient. I don't stop working,"
said Hubert, stolidly.

No. But you're always complaining,"
Mabel could not help saying, a little
warmly perhaps. How people did
grumble !

Only to you," Hubert said in a softer
tone. " You don't suppose I wear my
heart on my sleeve for every one's benefit,
do you ? However, I dare say you're right.
It isn't manly to show any feeling of any
kind. One must be a perfect stoic."

You know I didn't mean that," Mabel
said. " I am only sorry you should always
be so despondent, because I can't help
thinking that continual brooding over his
disappointments must take away from a
person's power of putting the very best he
has into his work."

Of course you're right," said Hubert
again, but this time iu a less ironical tone.
You always make me feel ashamed of
myself, although you give me fresh courage,
too."

A NEW FRIEND.

Hubert was in sore need of a helping
hand just at this time. He was leading
a life which, to a young man brought upas
he had been, was calculated sooner or
later to tell upon his health. He had been
used to riding and hunting, had always
passed the greater part of each day out
of doors, had been as ignorant as a child
of the cares and worries which beset the
poor. True, he had enough to buy bread-and-cheese
with from the year's beginning

to its end ; he was far better off in that
respect than the journalist who lived on
the opposite side of the landing, and whose
daily food depended on the copy that cost
him so much labour to write, and which
was of such trivial value when it was
done. Hubert had taken up his life bravely
enough, believing that he had counted
the cost and that he was ready to bear
any privations for his art's sake, but — he
had not been in love then. The day
w T which should bring him fame had not
seemed so hopelessly far off as did now
the day which should bring him Mabel.
He was impatient for that day ; he grudged
the time which was passing though he
and his love were not together. He
wanted to be happy while he was still
young enough to enjoy. The honours of
the Royal Academy would sit lyell upon

a grizzled head ; he could wait for them,
but he wanted Mabel soon.

His case seemed to him quite hopeless ;
however hard he worked, fame and fortune
could only come by slow, very slow degrees,
and perhaps, when they did come, it would
be too late. He allowed himself to brood
over such thoughts until they became his
hourly companions, obtruding themselves
between him and his work, and taking all
the pleasure, and most of the interest, oft
of the latter.

Just at this time he made a new friend,
a French artist, a few years older than
himself, who rejoiced in the name of Victor
Barthelemy. Barthelemy was a man of
a certain amount of talent, though it was
the kind of talent which rarely carries its
owner far. He possessed that gift which
to some people is more disastrous than a

total lack of ability — the gift of facility.
He had been a prodigy in his student
days in Paris, the favourite of his masters,
the admiration of his comrades. Nothing
was difficult to him ; what other young
men plodded at for month after month,
Barthelemy appeared to master by intuition.
He understood the anatomy of the human
form divine in this convenient way ; his
proportions were instinctively all right.
His colouring was astonishing for so young
a man, while as for his ideas, they were
simply transcendent. He was an admirable
talker, and as he could do so much
without practice, he was accustomed to
talk while his comrades were working.
All this was when he was twenty ; he
was thirty now, and he was still talking.
His work was as clever now as then, but
no cleverer and no better ; and what had

been very good indeed in a student, lost
half its merit as the production of a grown
man.

His companions, whom he had despised
as good but dull fellows, had, one by one,
passed him. This one had won the Prix
de Rome ; that one was already well known
as a landscape painter ; another was on
the sure road to renown as a sculptor — all,
except Barthelemy, had done something.
With advancing prosperity they had,
perhaps, grown more critical and cynical.
Barthelemy said they had, and he certainly
gave himself every opportunity of knowing,
for he haunted their studios with the most
exemplary faithfulness. Somehow they
no longer seemed to care to hear him talk
as of old. A shrug of the shoulders ora
sarcastic smile was all he got where
formerly there had been open-mouthed

admiration. Although five-franc pieces
were more plentiful now, they did not
make their appearance with such alacrity
as in the happy-go-lucky days, when everyone's
purse was every one's else's, unless,
as generally happened with Barthelemy,
he had no purse, in which case, of course,
the transaction was limited to the one side.
His old friends seemed weary of him ;
they were kind still for the sake of the
old camaraderie, but they were not cordial.
The one among them all who had been,
for a time, Barthelemy's most fervent
disciple, and who, probably in consequence
of that very circumstance, had succeeded
beyond the others, when he married a
young, pretty, and rich girl, had actually
written to Barthelemy, informing him that
his new studio was in his own hotel, and
that — in short, he would be glad if Bar thes

would forget the address at once and
for ever. Worst insult of all, the letter
had enclosed a hundred-franc note.

Barthelemy knew too well, if all the
others had forgotten, what was due to
auld Fang syne " to return the bank-note ;
but his heart had received a wound, which
he said, would bleed for ever.

Circumstances over which, no doubt, he
had no control, although it was unfortunate
it should have been so, shortly after this,
rendered it imperative for Barthelemy to
try change of air for a while. He came to
London, where he had been picking up a
precarious living for about a year before
he fell in with Hubert Durant, to whom
he at once attached himself with all the
impulsive fervour of his character.

Barthelemy was a creature of altogether
a new species to Hubert. Since he had

left Lay ton Abbey, he bad made no fresh
friends, and his old ones, the sons of the
county families with whom his aunt had
been in relation, had either forgotten him
or lie them. Miss Durant had never let
him fly far from her wing, not even as
far as Paris.

His tutor, the only man he had ever
known very intimately, was, although a
most excellent, well-road, and in every way
desirable companion, not one calculated to
call forth any enthusiasm in a boy's mind.
Mr. Wrack's own mind was as neatly and
evenly balanced as are the three sides of
an equilateral triangle, and he had never
seen very far into that of his pupil. Under
his tuition, however, Hubert had picked up,
among other things, a greater knowledge
of French than falls to the lot of other
boys, who have not the advantage of being

under so able a man. The tutor, like Mr.
Lilly vice in " Nicholas Nickleby," " didn't
think much " of French, when it was
learned, but until it was learned it was an
object for conscientious study.

Barthelemy, therefore, found his new
friend exceedingly well versed in his language,
particularly in the curious idioms
thereof. His accent was beautifully Saxon,
but rapidly improved until it became not
absolute torture " to the fastidious Frenchman's
ear. Entirely new ground, like this
simple young man's mind, was a fresh
and exceedingly delightful discovery to
Monsieur Barthelemy. He lost no time insetting
about its cultivation. He first of
all dug it up entirely, from end to end.
turning it over until he thought he knew
every inch of it, rooting out insular and
countrified prejudices, mixing up the good

but somewhat dry soil with more flexile
and fertilizing matter, and finally planted
it with weeds of various sorts, all calculated
to bear after their kind.

Zola, De Maupassant, and their like he
found it no good to sow ; they would not
come up. He was forced to abandon the
realistic school, with which indeed he had
not much sympathy, and which was simply
abhorrent to Hubert. Murder, Theophilus
Gautier, and Baudelaire were quite another
thing, however. Hubert drank deep of
each of these, marvelling that he should
have been so ignorant before. Baudelaire,
above all, with his morbid, moonlight fancies,
especially fascinated him. He even
went the length of getting himself some
hashish, in order to see whether the same
visions would not visit him. Barthe'lemy.
who was really actuated by no particular

motive or hope of advantage, was amused
at the effect his initiations had produced.
His own enthusiasms had rarely gone sofar.


De Quince, Hoffman, and Edgar Allan
Poe helped Hubert a little further on the
unreal, slippery path he was treading. It
was not long before the effects of his recent
studies showed themselves in his daily life.
He began to keep irregular hours ; he, who
had been wont to be at his easel every,
morning by eight o'clock, now often spent
the morning in bed, wrapped in an uneasy
slumber, more like stupor than healthy
sleep. When at length he dragged himself
up, he had neither the inclination
nor the energy for work. His appetite
failed him. He passed whole days without
touching a brush, sunk in a condition of
deepest despondency.

Barthelemy had lounged into the studio
one evening, when Hubert was particularly
despairing of himself, Mabel, his work,
everything.

After a few well-meant, but utterly unavailing
efforts at consolation, the Frenchman
suddenly said, from among the volumes
of smoke he was pouring forth from his
great black pipe —

I know how you could make money,
mon cher — heaps of it."

•' How ? " asked Hubert, languidly, without
raising his eyes. He was lying on
his bed.

By abandoning those ridiculous things
you have painted hitherto, and striking out
a new line for yourself. Your countrymen
are eternally on the gape for something
new. If you can once catch their fancy,
your fortune is made."

Why don't you make your own, then ? "
said Hubert, indifferently.

Barthelemy shrugged his shoulders.

Because I — look you, my boy — I am a
vaurien. I cannot work. I have the ideas,
but not the patience. But you are a true
plodding Englishman. Your blood is not
quicksilver, like mine."

What do you want me to do, then ? "

As I said, to strike out a new line.
Your Academy is full of nude and half-nude
figures — nymphs, goddesses, classical
beauties. Beauty plump and fair ; beauty,
so called, wan and lean — allegorical, historical,
fashionable — all one more fade than
the other. Why should one always paint
the beautiful ? It is common, and our first
effort should be not to be common. True,
your painters very often — generally — fail
to paint the beautiful, but their intention

VOL. I. 18

is to do so. Now, why should you not
paint "

The unbeautiful ? " said Hubert. " No,
thank you."

I was not going to say the unbeautiful,
but the bizarre, the fantastic, the
whimsical."

Hubert passed his hand wearily across
his brow. His head ached too much for
Barthelemy's words to reach him very
clearly.

Barthelemy was warming with his subject.
He sprang up, and began walking
to and fro, waving his pipe between the
puffs to illustrate his ideas.

See — instead, for instance, of a half-clad
simpering beauty, with an English
forehead and coiffure & la Grecque, whose
only raison d'etre is the showing as much
of herself, painted as truthfully as possible,

why not give them one of Baudelaire's or
Gautier's ' petites vieilles retainers ' ?

1 CEil vert, profonde bouche,
Dents noires, front coupe de rides, doigts noueux,
Dos vote, pied torn sons une jambe torse,
Voix rauque, ane plus laide encore que son ecorce,
Le diable n'est pas plus lieux.'

That would be interesting to paint,
hein ? Or, here's another thing. The interior
of a curiosity shop — the inner room,
you know. No human figures at all, but
all the curiosities holding their sabbath.
Articles from every corner of the earth,
each with a physiognomy and weird signification
of its own ? Do you see it ? "

Hubert was listening now. He nodded
without speaking.

Paint Balzac's Tobias Guarnerius
making his dying mother's last breath
enter his infernal violin through a tube
going from her mouth to the body of the

instrument. She is dying of cancer, and
her son, far from feeling the remotest pity
for her torture, has all his faculties fixed on
the successful transmission of her soul into
his violin. Or, if you can't do without
beauty, paint Baudelaire's colossal Venus,
against whose pedestal a court jester, clad
in his ridiculous costume, cap and bells,
leans in an attitude of dejection, with uplifted
eyes full of tears, while the implacable
Venus looks into the distance with her
marble eyes."

That's enough ! " said Hubert. " Do
shut up now."

I'm not saying you need actually go to
these authors, you know," Barthe'lemy went
on, without heeding the interruption.
You have quite sufficient imagination of
your own, I should think, to find fresh
subjects for yourself; but that's the kind of

thing I mean. Now go to bye-bye. I
don't believe you've heard a single word
I've said ; " and, refilling his pipe with
Hubert's tobacco, Barthelemy opened the
door, and clattered headlong down the
uncarpeted stairs.

END of vol. 1.

PRINTED BY WILLIAM CLOWES AND SONS, LIMITED,

LONDON AND Eccles. G., C. &•* Co.

Hi

insane

b$9hhbi

■hMH

—Ml

Lii— O-I096

THE ACADEMICIAN.

f/

1^

BY

Henry BEROLL.

AUTHOR OF "AN UGLY DUCKLING.

m THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. II.

LONDON:
Richard BENTLEY AND SON,

^ublisi)n:s in ©rtimarg to fer Jllajfsts tl}E ©urcn.
1888.

fall rights reserved.)

CONTENTS OF YOL. 11.

I. A Refractory Pupil . . i

II. A New Venture . . 20

III. La Salle de la Reality . . 38

IV. "He has sold ils Birthright" . 60
V. A Refusal . . . 74

VI. Changing . . . 97

VIL A Short Flight . . . 117

VIII. An Abrupt Dismissal . . 135

IX. Candid Criticism . . . 166

X. A Good Substitute . . 182

XI. Entrapped . . . 201

XII. A Disappointment . 234

XIII. Bereaved . . . 249

(,>jnmwt.w.pw .nMfaifeifc^

THE AOADEMIOIAlsr

CHAPTER I.

A REFRACTORY PUPIL.

Constance and Mrs. Sines liked each other
less every day. Mrs. Simes had been deceived
and disappointed in Connie ; she
had not much discrimination of character,
and had looked upon the girl, in consequence
of her extreme amiability when
she was sitting to Mr. Baring, as a good,
nice little woman, with whom it would be
easy to do anything. Like a chatelaine

VOL. II. 19

of old, who was proud to instruct a
daughter-in-law, whose education had been
neglected, in the mysteries of pickling,
preserving, and pastry-making, Mrs. Simes
had intended to initiate Connie into the no
less intricate, though far more profitable,
secrets of bone-boiling, servant-starving,
and bill-reducing.

Economy was in Mrs. Simes's opinion
a science — and a science well worth study.
There was a triumphant glow at her heart
when the leg of mutton had lasted four
days instead of three, compared to which
the transitory comfort of a well-filled
stomach was but low in the scale. To
get Stephen to innocently drink some beer
which, during its progress from cellar to
dining-room, had paid a short visit to the
water-tap, was a real pleasure, although
one she did not dare to indulge in very

often. The respective filling merits of cold
or hot potatoes, lentil soup, and oatmeal
porridge occupied much of her thoughts,
and had even kept her awake at night.
Mrs. Simes took her housekeeping very
seriously ; to her it was a sacred vocation,
and she had always intended that her
mantle should fall upon Stephen's wife.

No mantle of the sort, however, would
have stayed on Connie's narrow little
shoulders. Poor pleasure-loving, dainty,
luxurious Connie, who hardly knew what
animal milk came from, and would not
have been surprised to hear that butter
was a vegetable !

At Lay ton Abbey, the kitchen, the larder,
the pantry, had been regions unexplored
by her. She had never belonged, even for
one half-hour, to the race of children from
whom nothing can be hidden, and to whom

a prohibition is simply a whet to curiosity.
Connie had never, like Hubert, rushed into
the kitchen with salad from her own
garden, which the cook was to be sure
to use ; she had never violated the sanctity
of the spice-box, in a search after cinnamon
; she had never begged hard to be
allowed to mix some dough, or cut her
fingers in the ardour of slicing orange-peel
for marmalade ; she had never helped the
butler to polish the silver, or filled the
salt-cellars. Hubert had done all this, and
a good deal more besides. The utmost
Connie knew of the servants' quarters was
the housekeeper's room — a dreary, horsehair
furnished apartment, where she dimly
remembered being very much interested
in what she could catch of a conversation
between Robson, her aunt's maid, and the
housekeeper, in which Miss Dur ant's name

recurred frequently, always followed by
mysterious shaking of the head and clicking
of the tongue from the two who were
not speaking. A recollection of over-strong
tea, and buttered toast with too
much butter on it, accompanied this picture
in Connie's mind, and when she had grownup,
she had never once paid the old housekeeper
a visit in her own room, although
she had often seen her in Robson's.

At Mrs. Ohesham's, things although of
course on a very different scale, had been
quite as decorously and invisibly attended
to. Mabel was intimately well acquainted
with every nook and cranny of the kitchen ;
she knew the tricks of the oven, and was
an excellent cook herself, but she had never
asked Connie to come down with her.

And so, until poor Connie was married,
she had never seen anything of housekeeping.

Left to herself, she would have
ordered just what she thought Stephen
would like, without any reference to what
was in the house, or to the butcher's
account. She would have given the
servants carte blanche, for which they
would have liked her a great deal better
than they did the virtuous Mrs. Simes,
who seemed to think " a poor girl wouldn't
mind been' just such another bag o' bones
as herself."

Mrs. Simes had never intended to let
slip the reins of government — she loved
them far too dearly for that — but she had
wished to teach Connie how to keep house
after her own ideal. And Connie proved
a most refractory pupil. She objected to
eat the same meat day after day, although
Mrs. Simes clearly and plainly demonstrated
to her that it was far more economical

to buy a good large joint, which
would " do " over several days, and the
bone of which would then boil down for
soup. She turned up her nose at cheap
wish, and declined to touch stale bread. It
must be confessed that neither Mrs. Simes
nor Mr. Baring was fastidious in their
taste.

It was simply wonderful to see the artist
eat whatever was put before him, and all
the more remarkable to Connie, because
during their honeymoon abroad he had
been rather particular about his food — far
more so than she, who would just then
have found a crust of dry bread tete-astute
with Stephen delicious. The fact was,
that Mr. Baring did sometimes get woefully
tired of his aunt's menus. When he
felt that he could really bear it no longer,
he had been wont to dine out by himself

for a week at a time, affecting principally
the cheap little Italian and French restaurants
about Soho, where he got a
change from Mrs. Simes's flavourless stews
and hashes.

Baring was veritably a miser at heart,
however, especially where others were
concerned. It positively hurt him — -
pulled at his heart-strings — to change a
sovereign. And yet his artist-nature
continually drove him to spend money,
and even a good deal of money. Mrs.
Simes had at first held up her hands in
horror at the extravagance of some of the
things he had bought for his new house ;
but she had been made to understand that
these were business properties so to speak
the mise en scene which was absolutely
necessary to a man of his calling and
reputation — and had resigned herself,

resolving to be all the more watchful
downstairs, to make up.

Baring liked all things that appealed to
the pleasure of the eye. He might be
said almost to live through his eyes.
Form and colour were everything to him.
He loved rich hangings, exquisite carvings,
soft carpets, quaint furniture, and would
give a hundred guineas for some article
of virtu when he would hesitate to expend
sixpence on having his hair cut.

He would sit in his beautiful studio,
dressed in a shirt fringed at collar and
cuffs and far from spotless, an old
velveteen coat, and a pair of trousers so
ancient and so terribly frayed that they
looked quite ludicrous when he got
up. The incongruity of the thing never
occurred to him. He was sublimely
indifferent to the opinions of others on

such points, and did precisely as he chose,
-without reference to any other human
being.

This slovenliness of this distressed Connie
greatly. She had never seen a man
careless of his clothes. Hubert, although
his resources were so limited nowadays,
always managed somehow or other to
appear in spotless linen, even if his coat
were somewhat shabby. She could not
understand how any one could bear, for
their own sakes, to put on a soiled shirt
and ragged garments. She herself was as
dainty as a kitten. Dirt in any form was
abhorrent to her.

Just as little as she could comprehend
this side of Baring did he appreciate the
difference in her. The picturesque, the
harmonious, the gorgeous were what he
liked in women. Let a woman's features

be beautiful, let her figure satisfy his
critical eye, let her limbs be perfect inform
and colour, what cared he whether
she were coarse in her habits and common
in her mode of living !

Connie's exquisite personal refinement
did not appear in the slightest degree
admirable to him. He laughed at the
time she took over her daily ablutions, and
was surprised to find that she sat to have
her hair brushed for half an hour twice a
day. Mrs. Simes called this " ridiculous
affectation," and Baring felt very much
inclined to agree with her. Of Connie's
mental torture and ever-growing disgust
at his own commonness and want of
perception he had not the very remotest
suspicion. His affection for his wife was
by no means of the kind that " teacheth
all things," and his complacent ignorance

about his shortcomings added to their
enormity.

Poor Connie felt her delicate self
outraged, offended, a hundred times a
day. Her own lack of comprehension of
others made her attribute this not to want
of knowledge, which it really was, but to
deliberate and intentional disregard of her
feelings. She always judged from the
surface ; and it seemed impossible to her
that a man who lived for beauty, who
surrounded himself with rare and lovely
things, should be so incapable of understanding
what were to her matters of
course. She suspected that he grudged
her the expense of herself, and that his
laughs and sneers were of set intention,
and the prelude to depriving her of
everything in the way of luxury.

She had loved Stephen very much in

her own shallow little way ; had thought
it romantic to marry a great artist, and
had been inordinately proud of having
captured him. She would have gone on
loving him if he had been different ; but
there are some things before which a
woman's love, even when it is greater than
Connie's, goes down like a bird before a
gun. It was not want of comprehension ;
it was not that their minds were as far
apart as the North from the South Pole ; it
was not pique at his superior devotion to
his art; it was for other reasons that
Constance gradually ceased to love her
husband. The face that was so noble
when looking at his own work became
coarse and satyr-like when they were alone
together. The genius, the artist disappeared,
and in their place was only a
common, unrefined man, who did not know

what a gentle woman was. IIow this could
be so she failed to understand, and, as we
have said, preferred to jut it down to
deliberate unkindness on her husband's
part.

She attempted to confide to a certain
extent in Mabel ; but Mabel, whether
wrongly or rightly, felt that it was
impossible for her to act as confidante, and,
as kindly as she could, begged Connie not
to tell her things that concerned only her
husband and herself.

The artist's household was thus by no
means a happy one. Baring regretted the
loss of his freedom, and wished with all
his heart that he had not let himself
be bound with Connie's gilded chain ;
Mrs. Simes was in a perpetual ferment of
indignation ; and Connie herself was lonely
and miserable.

At last, when they had been married
nearly a year, she begged her husband to
allow her to invite Mabel to stay with her.
Baring had managed to impress upon his
wife that she was not to ask people to his
house, even for a meal, without his consent.


"• Certainly. I shall be very pleased for
you to have Miss Moore."

Only she's not to be shut up in the
studio all day long, remember, Stephen.
I want her for myself."

You'll lend her to me sometimes,
though," said Baring, with one of his
enigmatical smiles.

Mabel was very pleased to come. She
was glad to get away from George for a
little. That gentleman made a few amiable
remarks before she departed.

Good-bye, my dear. I shall welcome

you back from Bohemia. I suppose you
and your artist friend will be painting
together all day long ? '*

I haven't even taken my brushes,"
said Mabel, laughing. When one was
going to leave " dear George," one could
afford to laugh at his spiteful speeches.

Constance was in a wild state of excitement
when her friend arrived. She and
Robson had been stealing from every room
in the house for the benefit of Mabel's.

I'm afraid, dear," she said rather
dolefully, as she sat on the bed, while
Robson unpacked Mabel's things, 'that
you won't be very comfortable. E-obson
and I will do our best, but that doesn't
amount to much — does it, Nurse ? "

My dear Con," said Mabel, cheerfully,
what's good enough for you is certainly
good enough for me. Please remember

that I am not a spoilt and pampered young
woman like yourself."

Spoilt ! Pampered ! " echoed Connie.
'' Why, would you believe, Mabel," leaning
forward and speaking very earnestly —
would you believe that Mrs. Simes
actually thinks it wrong to wash in warm
water ! "

Why ? " asked Mabel.

Oh, why I don't know — except that
I suppose she considers it wicked to do or
to have anything comfortable."

And do you wash in cold ? "

Certainly not. If I wanted to, I
wouldn't, just for the sake of doing what
she doesn't like."

Mabel did not feel strongly drawn
towards Mrs. Simes herself, but she was
very anxious to make matters better between
Connie and the cross old house-vol.

II. 20

keeper ; so she began by rather hypocritically
praising some dish at dinner — a way
which she was quite aware was a sure one
to Mrs. Simes's heart.

Mrs. Simes was suspicious and sulky,
however, and put on airs of virtuous indignation
which made Mabel want to laugh,
and Constance look vexed.

Mabel was in high spirits that evening.
They went into the studio after dinner,
where she presently infected Connie with
her gaiety, and between them Mr. Baring
passed a more agreeable evening than he
had perhaps ever spent before.

There was not a word of pictures — not a
syllable about art.

The two girls chattered incessantly,
Mabel particularly. She played the piano,
and insisted on trying the old mandolins,
guitars, and harp which were in various



corners of the studio. She dressed Connie
up, and the lay figure as well. Finally
they ran up to bed, their merry voices
reaching Baring in the studio until Mabel's
bedroom door was shut.

How different ! " thought the artist.
'' She has not twenty thousand pounds ;
but there are twenty thousand other
reasons for — liking her."

A NEW VENTURE.

Mabel found lier visit very pleasant on
the whole. She soon lost any shyness she
might have felt of Mr. Baring, who gave
himself more trouble to amuse and entertain
her than he had ever done for any
living person before.

The artist's admiration for his charming-visitor
grew with every day. He had not
fully realized how beautiful she was ; and,
indeed, Mabel's face was not one to be
learned easily, any more than her character.
Nobody had ever known or understood her

thoroughly yet. Her lover, Hubert, might
perhaps in time, but at present his understanding
of her was more intuition than
real knowledge, which could only come
with time and close companionship. To
Mr. Baring she was simply irresistible.
His longing to paint her became almost a
pain to him. A hundred times he was on
the point of begging her to sit ; but he was
a wise man, and knew how to bide his
time. She should sit, but not yet. Meanwhile
he lived in the fascination of her
smile and the light of her loveliness.
Constance almost turned to him again ; he
was so kind and thoughtful, and seemed to
appreciate her society so much more, never
snubbing her, or cutting her childish
speeches short with a sneer or sarcastic
word. It never occurred to her that it was
because Mabel was there that Stephen

accompanied them in long walks, or that
he got tickets for the play, and even took
them out once to dinner.

Nor did Mabel herself suspect the fact.
Mr. Baring had supreme control over himself
; not once by word or look, so long ashe
chose not, did he express his feeling for
her. She liked him very much, quite
frankly and without arrive pense of any
sort. She certainly considered him a very
unfit husband for Constance ; but then, as
she said to herself, what sort of man would
have been a fit husband for Connie ? An
animated Twelfth-cake Prince would have
done better than anything else she could
think of.

They did not see much of Hubert.
Baring had an inkling that his wife's
brother was in love with Mabel, and
although he had no means of fathoming

Mabel's own feelings on the subject, he
thought it very likely that she cared for
him, and the thought was not a pleasant
one to him. So lie had not asked Hubert,
and Hubert was far too proud to trouble
his successful brother-in-law very often
with his company.

One evening, however, he came in after
dinner, when the girls were sitting in the
studio.

He looked a little less wan and dejected
than the last time Mabel had seen him.
Her quick observation soon discovered
something different about him — a kind of
suppressed nervous excitement which was
quite foreign to him. His eyes had a
curious glitter in them ; he was alternately
talkative and abstracted.

Baring, watching him very closely,
noticed his first glance at Mabel, who

was looking particularly lovely, and his
suspicion was confirmed, although nothing
in Hubert's speech or manner could have
betrayed him.

Have a pijDe, Durant ? " he asked.
Mr. Baring never smoked cigars himself,
partly for the reason that if he had none,
he could not offer his visitors any.

No, thanks," returned Hubert, with
a look at the girls.

Oh, you needn't mind us'' said Connie,
laughing. " We're smoke-dried. Stephen
is never without a horrid pipe in his
mouth."

Thus urged, Hubert accepted a pipe.

Have you been working hard lately ? "
Mabel asked as usual, looking at Hubert
with frank affection.

Yes, very," said Hubert.

'' Picture for the Academy ? " asked
Baring.

No," said Hubert, slowly ; "• not for the
Academy. They wouldn't hang what I've
been painting."

*^ Too good for us ? " Baring suggested
sarcastically.

*^ Not in your way," Hubert replied,
shortly.

Tell us all about it, Hubert," said
Connie, coaxingly"'

You'll be able to see for yourselves
soon enough ; I've taken a gallery in Bond
Street," said Hubert.

All for your own pictures ? " exclaimed
Constance.

Baring looked curiously at his brother-in-law.


I echo Connie's question," he said.

'' Well, you know," said Hubert, painfully
conscious of Mabel's eyes, " that they call
anything a gallery in Bond Street, even if
it's no larger than a dog-kennel. This is

a small room, which will just take the
things I want to show."

Tell us what the pictures are ? " Mabel
herself said.

Hubert laughed awkwardly.

Oh no, I can't describe," he said. " I
open on Monday, and then you can see for
yourselves. Come to the private view."

Dear me ! fancy having a private view
all to one's self! " observed Baring.

''I dare say it sounds absurd to you,"
said Hubert, loftily ; '' but if I were to wait
until you Academicians chose to hang me,
I might go on like this for years. I want
to make some money."

He looked full at Mabel as he spoke.
Her eyes met his very anxiously. She
could not make out what was the matter
with him.

Your own idea ? " asked Baring.

N — no," answered Hubert. ^' I arranged
it with a friend. But you'll see all there
is to see, which isn't much, on Monday.
Let's talk of something else now, if you
don't mind. May I see what you have
been doing ? " — to Baring.

Mabel wondered what Hubert was about.
She felt sure he was not in his normal
condition. Who was this friend ? How
had he come to take so serious a step
without consulting any of them about it ?
She would have given a good deal fora
little quiet conversation with him, but
there was no chance of that. Baring
asked her to play presently, and after that
it was time for Constance, who was always
sleepy early, and consequently for herself,
to go to bed. She said good night to
Hubert rather wistfully, and could not
help asking —

Are you well to-night ? "

Quite, thanks' Hubert answered, with
a laugh ; and that was all she could say.

When the two men were left alone,
Baring, who felt very curious about this
new idea of Hubert's, said, far more
cordially than was usual with him —

'' Now then, old fellow ; we'll have up
some whisky-and-water, and you shall tell
me all about these pictures of yours."

'' I'd much rather not talk about them,"
Hubert answered. "I'm not at all sure that
you'll like them."

'"'' But what are they ? " Baring persisted.

There are only one or two," said
Hubert, " and a few of my friend's."

Also a young artist like yourself ? "
inquired Baring.

A few years older. A Frenchman."

Do I know him ? "

Victor Barthelemy."

No — never heard his name. And so
you are going to exhibit with him ?
French sort of pictures ? "

Hubert wished he had held his tongue.
This cross-questioning was peculiarly repellent
to him.

'' I don't know exactly to what nationality
they may belong," he answered rather
testily. " They are — fantastic kind of
things. Not much like that," he added,
with a laugh, looking towards the easel, on
which stood a " Rachel mourning for her
Children."

No, I suppose not," Baring said dryly.

Finding that he could get nothing
further out of Hubert, Mr. Baring
dropped the subject, and spoke of something
else.

They had some whisky-and-water —

Hubert a small quantity, his host what
was for him a good deal. After that Mr.
Baring had a little more ; and then his
tongue suddenly loosened, and he became
more talkative than Hubert had ever vet
seen him.

He wandered from one thing to another,
and at length, after his third glass, began
to recall his youthful indiscretions. He
lolled back in his chair, holding his pipe
unsteadily between his teeth, every now
and then taking it out and watching the
curling wreaths of rising smoke with a
semi-foolish, fatuous smile, as he rambled
on, half to himself and half to Hubert.
The latter, who was feeling very tired,
hardly followed Mr. Baring's reminiscences,
in which Baring himself and some
awfully pretty girls played a prominent
part.

Hubert was dreamily thinking of Mabel,
and of how lovely she had looked as she
wished him good night. Would his venture
turn out a success ? Barthelemy
swore it would, and Barthelemy said he
knew. What a curious fellow he was —
Barthelemy ! Although he had done so
badly for himself, he seemed able to
manage anything for other people. How
well he had arranged all the business part
of the affair ! Hubert hardly knew how,
but it was arranged, and advertised too.
Barthelemy had attended to all that.
Hubert himself had been busy painting.
How hard he had worked ! The last
months seemed to him like a sort of dream,
in which he figured as the principal actor,
painting, painting away from morning till
night, and often great part of the night
as well — with only occasional stoppages for

meals, or a little rest, and sometimes for
more morphia.

For Hubert had been taking morphia
lately. He had got it at first because he
had begun to suffer from very bad headaches,
which allowed him no sleep, and
affected his eyes so that he could hardly
see to work. The drug had given him
marvellous relief, and, not only that, it
had seemed to help him in other ways.
Never had he found his intelligence so
clear, his ideas so lucid. He seemed to be
able to see into people and things with
wonderfully quickened observation ; his
hand moved over the canvas apparently of
its own volition, and he, generally so difficult
to satisfy, had lately often wondered
at his own skill. He knew that he was
doing an unwise thing, but he had no
intention of giving himself up body and

soul to the seductive temptation ; he believed
sufficiently in his strength of will,
which would be powerful enough to shake
off the habit when its master chose to
exert it. As it was, he did not exceed ; he
was always perfectly reasonable in his
doses, except, perhaps, once or twice lately,
He knew that he would have to pay the
price of his imprudence presently, when
his work was done, his narcotic stopped,
and the reaction set in. But if Mabel
were the prize, what would it signify,
even if his health were temporarily impaired
? He passed lightly over such trifles
as the possibility of non-success, failure of
will, permanent loss of nerve power. By
next week he would have finished, and
then he would take himself in hand again.
It would be so easy !

At this point in his reflections he became

VOL. TI. 21

aware that Baring's voice had ceased, and
that the painter was looking at him with a
slightly defiant air.

Hubert rose with a start.

*' How late it is ! I must be going."

Baring got up too.

"By Jove ! so it is. I have been talking
a good deal of nonsense, I'm afraid ? " he
said tentatively.

'' Oh no," Hubert answered. For the
life of him he could not have told what
Baring had been saying.

'' Well, you know, you mustn't believe
that in vino Veritas — that's as humbugging
as most common sayings are ; and, anyway,
this was whisky, wasn't it ? Good night,
old fellow. We shall turn up at your show
on Monday."

The artist dismissed his brother-in-law
with a weak smile, and Hubert went away.

When he got back to his lodgings he
lighted his lamp, which had a strong
reflector to it, and set it down so as to
illuminate the picture he had finished that
afternoon.

It was the bust and head of a girl — a
girl with tawny-coloured hair in a tangled
mass all round her head, a low, flat brow,
a straight, thin nose, and a full-lipped,
scarlet mouth, the parted lips showing a
double row of straight, white, rather
pointed teeth, set a little apart. The eyes
were hardly more than narrow slits,
through which gleamed irises of a golden
brown, with pupils contracted like those
of a cat in the daytime. She was dressed
in some Eastern-looking stuff, which left
her arms, throat, and bosom almost bare.
The one side of her was very fair, the
flesh rose-pink, with the blue veins

showing through the delicate skin. The
other side, from the right eyebrow to the
half-visible right breast, was one mass of
terrible and only partially healed scars,
which showed up red and purple against
the tender tint of the rest of the skin.
The right corner of the upper lip had been
dragged up a little, and the lower lid of
the right eye somewhat depressed in the
healing of the burns, or whatever had
caused this dreadful disfigurement, giving
a suspicion of malicious cruelty to the
whole face. The girl had one hand raised —
a little velvet-looking white hand, dimpled
at wrist and knuckles, and with almond-shaped,
pink nails. Between her forefinger
and thumb she held, delicately
pinched together, a butterfly, which had
evidently taken its last flight. She was
looking at the insect with her feline eyes.

Hubert examined the picture with a
satisfied air.

'' Barthelemy said it was very good, and
I really think it is. Bon soir, mademoiselle
; we shall see how the public like
you on Monday."

He was turning away, when his eyes
fell on another face. From the foot of his
bed Mabel looked down upon him, and he
fancied that her beloved features wore an
expression of sad reproach. He glanced
again at the other face, and for a moment
he felt ashamed of having violated the
sanctity of his love's presence by creating
in it the embodiment of his fever-stricken,
morbid imagination. But the next instant
he turned away with a laugh, muttering —

It's all for you, so you need not look
so reproachful."

After which sophistic speech he went
to bed, and tried to sleep.

LA SALLE DE LA Realise.

Mr. Baring kept his word, and on the
Monday following Hubert's visit took his
wife and Mabel to Bond Street to see what
he called the show. The Academician was
loftily condescending. He thought it
extreme impertinence on Hubert's part to
attempt to creep into public notice by any
other means than through the wide portals
of Burlington House. A pretty thing Art
was coming to, when every young whipper-snapper
could take a " gallery," and
exhibit the rubbish which those who knew
painting from daubing declined to hang

on the walls honoured by the memory of
Reynolds and his compeers.

Connie was curious and nothing more,
except that she thought it a little beneath
Hubert's dignity to take shillings " all to
himself' in that manner.

Mabel alone was anxious. She had been
very subdued ever since Hubert's evening
call upon Baring. She had an idea that
something was wrong, and was looking
forward to finding out what it was to-day ;
how, she did not know.

On entering Bond Street, Connie was the
first to remark the boards which a string
of sandwich-men were carrying.

Oh, look there, Mabel ! " she cried.
Hubert's name ! "

Mabel looked. Yes ; there was Hubert's
name, on a flaring poster.

*' Victor Bartlielemy and Hubert Duran{>i

New Gallery of Paintings. Salle de la
Reality

Ha ! the young fool knows what he's
about ! " muttered Baring, as his eye, too,
fell on the placard.

Mabel's heart beat strangely, as they
paused to let some other people pass
through the wicket when they had reached
the place.

After crossing a tiny anteroom, darkened,
and dimly lighted with gas, they
pushed aside a heavy curtain, and came
into another apartment, from which also
the light of day was excluded. This room
was draped with hangings of some sombre
colour, and divided into little niches, each
one curtained and railed off, and each one
separately and brilliantly lighted by lights
overhead ; the spectator standing in the
dark space outside, and looking at the

picture, which received its own special
illumination from above.

There were only a few people, most of
them men. The darkened atmosphere
seemed to have made them shy of their
own voices, for they all conversed in
whispers.

Mabel saw and heard no one. She had
come to a standstill before the first picture,
and was looking at it with wide-open eyes.
It happened to be the girl with the butterfly,
and bore underneath it the title " La
Revanche r

Two men were standing in front of it.

Admirably painted ! Quite Wiertz-
like."

"Is that Barthelemy's or Durant's ? "

Durant's."

Clever fellow he must be. Will make
his way, I should fancy."

Yes, if be doesn't die in a lunatic
asylum."

•' Pooh, my dear boy ! This sort of
thing is only a question of money. It's
not more than skin-deep with the artist,
you may be certain."

They passed on. After a moment Mabel
did the same.

The next was called " Le Vent'' It was
a blurred and misty canvas, on which at
a first glance you could discern nothing
at all. On looking more attentively, indistinct
shadows of trees appeared, and
single autumn leaves of very brilliant and
varied colours seemed to be whirling about,
all over the picture. It was, in fact, an
attempt to paint the unpalatable; for, clever
as it was, it needed the explanation of the
title. In the left-hand top corner was
the suggestion of a face, apparent' just

looking round before disappearing. It
was a weird, whimsical face, its hair blown
straight out, and its features also seeming
to follow the impetus of the blast ; for eyes,
nose, mouth, cheeks, were all inclined in
one direction, producing an indescribable
effect of half-freakish, half-rollicking movement.
This work bore Barthelemy's name,
but Mabel never noticed that. To her the
exhibition was all Hubert's. There were
several others, by both artists, which need
not be described ; and last of all, there was
the picture of the marble Venus, with the
jester at the foot of her pedestal.

Before this one Mabel stood longest of
all. It was different from the others, and
served to salve over a little the wound in
her heart. It had been Hubert's favourite;
he had felt the true artist's pang when it
had been carried out of the studio, whereas

lie had been almost 2:lad to see the others
go. He had painted the statue as Baudelaire
describes it, standing in a large park,
with trees and water in the background,
the whole landscape steeped in hot and
tranquil sunshine. Unconsciously Hubert
had given the face a slight look of Mabel ;
though faint, the resemblance was there,
and Monsieur Barthelemy, who was doing
the honours of his gallery, and who happened
to be standing where he could see
Mabel as she looked at the picture, perceived
it in a moment.

*' Tiens / " he murmured. *' C'est Id sa
Venus I et lui, best le pauvre diable a ses
pieds ! "

If Hubert had not intended to reproduce
Mabel's features, still less had he
thought of doing so with his own ; and
yet the face of the gaily clad, huddled-up

figure at the base of the statue, with its
piteous, wistful, lifted eyes, somehow sent
a thrill through Mabel's heart. She felt as
if Hubert were unhappy, suffering, and had
called her.

At the foot of the picture was the quotation
—

All ! Esse I ayez pitied de ma tristesse
et de mon desire ! "

Well, Mabel," cried Connie at this
moment, " did you ever, ever see such ^
awful, hideous things ? "

Mabel's lips moved, but made no sound.

Look, that man down there, with
Stephen, is Monsieur Barthelemy, Hubert's
partner. He doesn't seem mad, but he
must be. Oh, they are coming this
way."

Barthelemy, hearing one of the art
critics present address Mr. Baring byname,

and knowing that name to belong
to a Royal Academician and Hubert's
brother-in-law, lost no time in presenting
himself with all his customary aplomb,
A few words of well-chosen praise of
Baring's work, coupled with an appearance
of only moderate satisfaction with
his own, soon disposed Mr. Baring in
favour of Monsieur Barthelemy, and
caused him to accept his advances quite
graciously.

Barthelemy, who wanted to be introduced
to Mabel, skilfully drew Mr. Baring
to the picture before which the girls were
standing.

This, monsieur, I consider my friend's
best picture."

Well, Miss Moore, and what do you
think of it all ? " asked Baring.

Madame your wife ? " coolly inquired

Monsieur Barthelemy, although he had
perfectly well heard Mabel's name.

Baring, who was not proof against the
Frenchman's eel-like suavity of manner,
introduced his wife and Mabel.

''My friend's sister!" exclaimed Bar-thereby,
who had gauged Constance some
ten minutes ago. " I am indeed fortunate!
And what, madame, is your opinion of our
little exhibition ? "

I think it's horrid, all of it ! " said
Connie, with a quick little frown. " I'm
nearly stifled, and the pictures make me
feel ill ! "

And mademoiselle ?" asked Barthelemy,
looking curiously at the proud, beautiful
face, the expression of which baffled him.

I do not like them, except this one,"
Mabel answered coldly.

Ah yes, this is sure to be a favourite,"

paid Barthelemy, with a caressing glance
towards the Venus. " But I am surprised
that you do not care for the others. Ladies,
as a rule, are so fond of the horrible."

Mabel looked at him scornfully ; she was
not going to be polite to this man, who, her
instinct told her, was Hubert's evil genius.

I know they think they must pretend
disgust," said Barthelemy, nettled b}^ her
glance ; " but it is all pretence. Women
are far more morbid than men."

Mabel felt too disdainful to make any
answer. Barthelemy began to be amused.
No wonder Hubert was miserable, if this
high and mighty young lady was his
goddess.

How do you like the Sara ? " he asked.

Oh, Monsieur Barthelemy," said Connie,
*' do tell us what it means. My husband
doesn't know, nor do I."

It is from a story of Balzac's," answered
Barthelemy ; then, looking at
Mabel — " Mademoiselle is familiar with
it ? "

Mabel shook her head.

I have never read anything of Balzac's,"
she said.

Then I will explain to you. That is
Sara, a Jewess, who was cursed by her
father a respectable but narrow-minded old
Jew, for having become a hallerina. After
her death she was delivered over to the
evil one, who gave himself a good deal of
trouble to invent a new and fitting punishment
for so novel and grave a crime. He
had at last an inspiration which did him
credit. He caused his demons to erect a
theatre which should resemble in every
respect those wicked earthly ones in which
poor Sara had danced away her salvation.

VOL. II. 22

When it was ready, it was filled with an
audience set free for the nonce, each from
his or her own particular torment. These
lost souls were allowed to taste once more
the joys of fashionable attire, and to assist
at a ' first night.' His Majesty Satan
occupied the principal box. After two
scenes of the play came the ballet. Sara,
with several other ladies, or souls, who
had followed the same vocation as herself
upon earth, danced one after the other.
King Satan, and of course with him the
rest of the audience, applauded the others
frantically ; but when it came to Sara's
turn, they all affected utter indifference,
and made not a sound. She exhausted
herself in efforts to please her new patrons,
but all in vain — she danced in the midst of
a profound silence. On going off — is it
not so you say ? — the poor girl had a violent

fit of hysterics. His Infernal Majesty was
perfectly satisfied with the result of this
new mode of torture, and since that time
poor Sara dances all by herself, as you see
her there in the empty theatre, the applause
given to her companions ever ringing in
her ears, with no orchestra to mark time
for her, no one to admire her grace and
her beauty. Void, mesdames — do you
think my friend has don-e justice to his
subject ? "

Barthelemy had told his story dramatically
and well. Constance shuddered.

How awful ! Isn't it, Stephen ? "

Mr. Baring shrugged his shoulders.

"Clap-trap, that's all. Come, Constance;
I've had enough of this."

Barthelemy gallantly escorted them to
the door. On the way Mabel turned her
head, and looked at him with angry eyes.

Did you persuade Mr. Durant to paint
these things ? " she asked almost fiercely.

Barthelemy bowed. " I plead guilty."

Then," said Mabel, and her eyes
glowed — " then — I think — I almost think
you deserve a punishment as bad as
Sara's."

She was gone. Barthelemy stood, with
a comical look of surprise on his features.

Sapristi ! Quel petit demon que cette
femme I What can she mean by that ? I
help her friend to make a name for himself,
I do everything but paint his
pictures for him, and then mademoiselle
turns round and almost curses me ! I
must ask Durant for an explanation."

Hubert, however, did not come near the
place all day, and Barthelemy went round
to the studio as soon as the gallery was
closed.

He found a very pale and nervons-look-
iii Hubert, pacing up and down the
narrow limits of his room.

sewell?" he asked eagerly, almost before
Barthelemy had got inside.

Perfect, my dear boy. We've done
the trick, I feel sure. But you should
have been there."

I couldn't. I — I was not well."

Never mind. / have been there from
the morning till now. And I am sure it
will be a success. The critics were evidently
impressed. I hope they will abuse
us well ! "

*' Abuse us ? " repeated Hubert, stopping
in his tramp.

Yes, abuse us. If they will only say
that the exhibition is calculated to have a
deleterious effect on public morals, and
that no one, especially no woman, should

go near it, we shall have the place
crowded."

That sounds very cynical and nice,
but I wonder if it's true ? "

True ? Of course it is ! Say a thing's
improper, and you make its fortune at
once. I could mention several instances
where the popularity of a play, a novel, an
exhibition has been started in that way.
People go, read, look, because they think
it ' right to see what we are coming to.'
They are so conscientious that they will not
condemn on other people's opinions. Fora
thing that is unanimously approved of
by the press, there is always time enough —
their friends can tell them all about it, in
fact — but the other sort of thing — ah, cela
doit se voir ! "

'' Well, we shall see," said Hubert, rather
wearily. " Was any one there you knew ? "

'* Yes, several people. And I made
acquaintance for myself with some one I
did not know — your amiable brother-in-law
who had an air of having swallowed one
of his own mahlsticks — his wife, and her
friend, a Miss Moore. Do you know her ? "

Hubert nodded.

Ah — very pretty, but iioliat a temper !
Mon Dieu! she made me feel like a naughty
little boj^, I assure you."

Hubert stopped again and looked at him.

"How? Why?"

Why Ma foi, Hubert, you are not

very hospitable to-night. You've never
even offered me a pipe."

Hubert supplied his friend somewhat
impatiently, and then repeated his "How?"

Barthelemy threw himself into the only
arm-chair of which Hubert's room could
boast, stretched his long legs out before

him, and, after contemplating with apparently
absorbing interest some splashes
of mud on one of them, condescended to
go on.

Yes, your sister asked me for an explanation
of Sara. By the way, mon ami
I think we had better have one printed
to hand about; your English seem lamentably
ignorant of their Balzac. Well, as I
was saying, Mrs. Baring asked me for an
explanation, and I gave them a short
resume of the story — very nicely told, I
flatter myself. Miss Moore said nothing —
neither bad nor good, about the picture —
but when she was going, she turned on
me, with eyes blazing like a fury's, and
asked if / had persuaded you to paint
those pictures. I admitted the soft impeachment,
whereupon she Informed me with
the most adorable naivete that I deserved

to be punished a la Sara ! Ha ! ha ! I was
amused."

So that's how she takes it, is it ? "
Hubert said to himself. " Was that all
she — they said ? " he asked.

Pretty nearly all. I don't know your
brother-in-law well enough to understand
whether he was pleased or not, but I
suppose I shall soon find out, for he
has asked me to his studio. I fancy
Mademoiselle Demon is staying with
them, so I shall have the opportunity of
exchanging a few further amenities with
her."

Hubert made a step forward. *look
here ! " he said, with an ugly frown, such
as Barthelemy had never seen on his face
before. " I warn you now, once for all,
that you are to take care how you speak
of Miss Moore. You shall not sully her

name with your odious jokes and cheap
witticisms."

Barthelemy looked up at the angry
face above him with a queer little smile.

All light, dear boy ; all right," he
said gently. " You need not look at me
like that, nor need you use such, violent
language. I meant no disrespect to your
sister's friend — you cannot really think

SO.

Hubert, disarmed by the other's coolness,
felt rather ashamed of himself.

All right, old fellow," he said. '' Only,
you know, you are so fond of talking
cynically about women, and it always
grates upon me."

Barthelemy twisted his features into a
repentant expression.

Forgive me, dear boy. Henceforth
1 will confine my conversation to the other



sex — except — except when fond memory
should compel me to refer to my venerable
grandmother. That, I trust, will not be
offensive to you ? "

HE HAS SOLD HIS BIRTHRIGHT .

9»

Mabel was thankful when they got home
again, and she could escape to her room,
to be alone and think.

Her mind was full of bitter disappointment
and reproach. Her Hubert, to
whom she had given all the best part of
her soul for three years past, whom she
had loved with all the strength of her
nature, in whose genius and ambition she
had believed and trusted, whose single-heartiness
she would have staked her life
on — he — he to degrade himself so — to

bring down bis gifts to such a level, to
sell bis birthright so meanly, so irretrievably
! One of ber step-father's epithets
recurred to ber with singular force.
Mountebank " — that was what be bad
called Baring when Connie bad married
bim. A mountebank ! No ; that was what
Hubert was. Constance's husband would
never bave been so untrue to himself. Bethought
of Baring's " Saint Cecilia," and a
dozen more things of bis, and ber whole
heart went out in veneration to bim, with
whom Art was a divinity, and not a
mistress, to be shamed and toyed with
or sold at will. Baring kept bis Art body ;
Hubert bad flung bis into the streets, to be
trampled and scorned of every passer-by.
What despicable creatures men must be,
when the desire for money could make
them sink so low ! Sbe thought of ber

step-father, who would cheerfully have
left her mother and herself penniless,
hungry, unclothed, so long as he himself
was supplied with his own luxuries ; she
remembered the brother of a friend of her
own, who had forged to obtain the money
which he owed for cigars and jewellery ;
other instances where men she had known
or heard of had lost themselves rushed into
her memory. Money was at the root of all
these failures, but none were so bad as
Hubert's. She had built her faith so firmly
on Hubert ; how firmly, she had perhaps
never realized until now, when, without
any warning to soften the shock, her idol
had tottered and fallen. She had thought
him so strong — despondent, impatient, but
still so strong ! And all the time he was
so weak that, at the first temptation, at
the first word of a stranger weaker and

wickeder than himself, he had flung away
Art, Honour — Herself!

Yes, Herself; for her faith was gone,
and her love must go with it. She could
not love where she could not respect ; there
could be no feeling in her for Hubert but
contempt.

What a shame it was ! The very excellence
of his work showed how near the
goal he had been — nearer even than she
had known.

The unhealthy, gas-laden atmosphere of
the place seemed still to oppress her ; she
got up, and threw open her window. No
wonder he shut out the clear honest light
of day from his exhibition — he did well at
least in that !

She sat nursing her pain until it was
time to go down to dinner. She would
have begged off on the plea — a true enough

one — of headache, but that she feared
remark, to-day of all days ; so she bathed
her eyes, which burned and ached although
she had not shed a tear, and joined the
artist and his wife.

Constance could talk of nothing else but
of Hubert's pictures. She used up her
stock of condemnatory adjectives, which
was a large one ; no one opposing her.
Baring was inwardly a good deal surprised.
He had not given Hubert credit for so
much skill.

The morbidity of the pictures had not
struck him from its unhealthy and dangerous
point of view. His own imagination
was not sufficiently powerful to be
easily impressed. He thought the subjects
of the paintings *' catch-penny " and
"clap-trap," and objected to the artificially-lighted
arrangement as savouring of char-fatalism

; but nevertheless he was fully
alive to the cleverness and technical ability
evinced, and his opinion of Hubert had
greatly risen in consequence. Hubert's
soul and personality being of very little
importance to him, it was not to be expected
that he should take quite so tragic
a view of the matter as Mabel.

When they went into the studio, Mabel
walked up to Baring's easel, and stood
looking at the picture on it until her
heart swelled near to bursting. Yes ; this
this, and even more, was what she had
foreseen, steadily believed in, for Hubert.
She almost wished he had died — rather
than so betray the genius that was not of
his own creation, but only entrusted to
him.

Baring saw that something was amiss,
but had no idea of the real cause. Perhaps
VOL. II. 23

she had been disappointed at not seeing
Hubert.

*' Ah," he said, coming up to her, " I
shall never finish that."

Why not ? " asked Mabel, hoping he
had not seen the tears which had at last
risen to her eyes.

Because I cannot find a face for my
Rachel. A new model came this morning,
of whom I had great hopes, but she was
utterly useless. I could have painted her
as an organ-girl, but as Rachel — no. Ita
pity, but what can I do ? "

"It is a great pity," said Mabel, absently.
She was thinking of the girl's face ; the
low, animal face, with its scarred cheek,
she had seen that morning.

Yes, it's all the more pity, because
I know a face which is exactly what I
want."

Why don't you paint it, then ? " inquired
Mabel, innocently.

Because," said Baring, looking full at
her — "because its owner is very selfish,
and will not let me."

You don't mean me ? " Mabel asked,
with a sudden perception of his meaning.

I do mean you."

But I told you " murmured Mabel.

You told me — after first consenting,
by-the-by — that you had a superstition
against sitting. Well, I haven't asked
you again."

Mabel was silent. What did it matter
now ? She belonged to nobody. She had
taken herself back from Hubert. Had she
any right, if in the smallest way she could
serve the Art she held so sacred, to withhold
herself? Why had she refused before?
She could hardly remember ; she only

knew that there existed no reason for
doing so now. She suddenly raised her
eyes to Baring, who had been looking at
her, and said —

Mr. Baring, I will sit to you for
Rachel's face, if it will help you."

Not a movement of a muscle, not the
faintest light in his eye showed the
triumph which Baring felt. He only
smiled at her, and said very simply —

Thank you."

Only I haven't very much more time.
I must go home next week."

Oh, surely not ? "

I must. Mother will want me."

Well, then, we must begin tomorrow.
I hope I shall not tire you. But you are
not like Constance ; you know how to sit
still. I have seen you sit still for an hour
at a time, hardly moving a limb."

That was very idle of me."

Perhaps — but a very good quality in a
sitter."

Constance bewailed her friend's consent
most woefully.

^'It is too bad of you both," she said,
"" her last week."

You'll have plenty of me still, Connie,"
Mabel laughed.

'•No, no; I know how it is when Stephen
once bef>:ins."

•' Well, good night, dear," said Mabel,
and went to her own room. She had been
too much overwrought to be able to stand
Connie's peevishness just then.

Left alone with her husband, Connie
cried crossly —

"It is a shame of you, Stephen. Why
don't you keep to your professional models
horrid things! — and let my friend alone?

You know how little pleasure I ever have
now, and it's Mabel's last "

Baring turned fiercely upon her.

'* Don't make a fool of yourself, Constance,"
he said, with a heavy frown.
Come, go to bed."

Connie flung out of the studio without
deigning to say good night.

When she was gone, Baring drew a
deep breath. At last ! at last ! How
patiently, how wisely, he had waited for
this ! As indomitable as had been his
desire, had also been his endurance. He
felt like a traveller in the desert, who may
at length slake the thirst which has been
consuming him for what seems like years.
He remembered the evening, long ago,
before his marriage, when he had tried so
vainly to reproduce the features he coveted,
from memory. How utterly he had failed

how resolutely he had determined to
have them some day. That day had come ;
it was here. He had won at last — how or
why he hardly knew, only that victory
was his. How long would it he before
tomorrow? Eleven hours. So long! How
hard that it should be so long I He could
have waited for months, years ; but eleven
whole hours! Would they ever pass ? He
shut his eyes, and tried to bring the face
before him.

Yes ; there it was, with all its varying
expressions, now tender and sweet, now
audaciously merry, now strong and resolute,
again pensive and sad. How well he
knew each change ! He had studied them
so closely lately. He thought of the soft,
rounded curve of the cheek, of the perfect
line of the lips, of the wonderful eyes, as
deep and unfathomable as the sea.

He never understood Mabel's eyes.
When they were cast down over book
or work, she seemed to him only a very
beautiful woman ; but when once they
were raised, whether they looked into his
or past his, whether they were gay or
sorrowful, he felt that they were incomprehensible.
He had not their secret.

Well, unfathomable or not, at all events
they were beautiful, and their beauty was
to be his now ; he was to satisfy his
craving, his yearning, at last. He pulled
out his watch again. Only five minutes
since he last looked.

With a laugh at this own folly he threw
some fresh coal on the fire. He was in no
mood to go to bed just yet. He sat in
front of the picture, forgetting to smoke,
absorbed in the thought of tomorrow's

joy-and

upstairs, Mabel, lying on her bed,
was doing her utmost to spoil, if tears can
spoil, the eyes which were at once so
beautiful and so mysterious.

A REFUSAL.

About three weeks after Mabel had
consented to sit to Mr. Baring, Hubert
Durant called one afternoon at Mr.
Chesham's house, and asked for Miss
Moore.

Mabel happened to be sitting alone in
the drawing-room when Hubert was
announced. A novel lay on her lap, but
she had been idly staring into the fire
instead of reading it. She started as the
maid said, " Mr. Durant ; " but by the time
Hubert entered the room she was perfectly
composed — outwardly, at all events.

She greeted him coldly, in a very
different manner from the old one, and
then said something about looking for
her mother.

No, don't go," said Hubert eagerly, as
she turned towards the door. *' I want to
see you. I have something to say to
you."

Mabel came slowly back. The expression
on her face was not an encouraging
one.

She sat down opposite the fire, in front
of which Hubert was standing. She tried
to say in an everyday tone, " What is it
you want to say to me ? " but her voice
would not come.

Hubert stood and looked at her for a
minute without speaking. It seemed to
him that there was something different
about her. Something was changed. It

was not that she had lost any of her
beauty, for a pale cheek can be as pretty
as a rosy one. Her hair was arranged ashe
had always seen it ; she was as graceful
and lovely as ever ; and yet

She seemed cold and embarrassed ; but
that was probably shyness. Of course she
knew what " something to say " must mean
between them. There was only one thing
it could mean.

'* Mabel ! " he said, after. that minute.

Mabel looked up quickly, and then down
again without speaking. He had never
called her by her Christian name before.

** Mabel, I have come — at last I am able
to come.' . . . You have known for many
months how I have wanted to come before.
And now — at last '^

He stopped. There came no answering
thrill from her heart to his. Surely there

should be no need of so many words
between lovers ?

He drew nearer. Mabel seemed to
shrink away ; but that must be his fancy.
They had always understood each other so
well before. Why did he find it so difficult
now to tell her ?

Mabel, you know that I love you.
Will you be my wife ? "

There was a pause. Then the reply
came in almost a whisper —

No."

Hubert started.

No ? Did you say No ? "

Mabel bowed her head.

Then why — why in Heaven's name
have you — why did you let me think
you loved me ? For you did let me think


so.

At last Mabel found her voice. She

lifted her head proudly, and with a look
at him in which he read only scorn, and
none of the pain which was in her heart,
she answered bravely —

Because I did love you. And I do not
love you now."

Was he dreaming ? He repeated her
last words in a dull, stupid sort of way —

You do not love me now. . . . How
. . Has any one come between us ? "

No — no one. It is your own doing.
Did you expect me to care for you after
you had so lowered yourself as to paint
those — those things ? "

Mabel ! Those things, as you call
them, have succeeded far better even than
I had dared to hope. Every one of them
has sold, and I have work for a long time
to come. Why should you say I have
lowered myself ? "

*' You have — to the public taste for
horrors. It is unworthy of an Artist."

I entirely disagree with you. I have
gone a little out of the beaten track, of
course. I suppose that is what displeases
you. No Grosvenor Gallery, no Royal
Academy — but what does that matter ?
The Grosvenor Gallery and the Academy
sent back my work time after time. I
should have got on in the course of years,
no doubt ; but I wanted — I wanted to bea
little happy as well as successful, Mabel."

The catch in his voice went through
Mabel like a knife. But she hardened her
heart. What did his grief signify to her ?
She did not love him.

And now I . . . we . . . could be
happy. I have nothing much even yet to
offer you, dear ; but you don't care for
money, I know. Mabel, forgive me . . .

it was for you . . . don't send me
away."

Mabel shook her head.

I do not love you," she repeated, in
the same impassive voice she had used
throughout their interview.

Hubert turned away from her and
stood looking into the fire for a few
seconds, during which Mabel could hear
her heart beat. Presently he turned,
and said as coldly as she had herself
spoken —

Good-bye."

'^ You . . . you . . . will come and
. . see us sometimes ? " she asked in a
rather more kindly way.

Hubert smiled bitterly.

"No. . . . Good-bye."

He was gone ; and Mabel, instead of
feeling very heroic and strong-minded,

only knew that she was the most utterly
wretched and lonely girl in the world.

She sat where he had left her until the
room grew dark and the fire almost
burned itself out. It seemed cruel, and
yet she was sure she was right. She could
never have made him happy. One should
be able to look up to one's husband. A
brother, a son, may show himself weak and
unstable, and a woman may love him still
with the unreasoning, compassionate love
that gives all, and is content with but little
repayment in kind. Mabel knew that her
own mother was weak ; she knew that she
had sacrificed her daughter to her husband,
that she would at any time yield up her
children's happiness and welfare if that
husband put sufficient pressure upon her.
And yet Mabel loved her mother very
dearly — so dearly that she did not even
VOL. II. 24

feel indignant or vexed with her, but only
sorry for her. But in a husband she
wanted something else. She had always
been the stronger in her relations with her
mother — now she wanted to lean herself,
not always to be leaned against. She had
always been so strong, and yet she felt so
weak ; she craved so for some strength
which should not be hers, except in the
sense that she could count upon it.

She could not marry a man who would
be blown hither and thither by every
wind that crossed his path. She knew
how she had despised Hubert all these
last days, and it had been bitter enough
away from him ; but with him — it would
be impossible. They would both be
terribly unhappy, and, therefore, it was
better so.

The next afternoon, when she went to

see Mrs. Baring, she asked her if she had
seen her brother lately.

No," answered Connie ; " we've not
seen him since the evening he came up
here, just before his exhibition opened.
By the way, Stephen heard at the Academy,
the other night, that that's doing exceedingly
well. The pictures have become
quite the rage."

Yes ; so I understand."

Ah, Hubert knows what he is about, a
very great deal better than I should ever
have given him credit for," said Baring,
who had come into the room. " He will
make his fortune yet, if he sticks to this
new style of his until people are tired
of it."

Let us hope that will be soon," said
Mabel.

Baring looked at her and laughed.

That's the first time I've heard you
say anything about those pictures," he
remarked ; " you always listen, and say
nothing. Then you dont like them ? "

I abominate them," said Mabel.

Well, you couldn't do otherwise. I
am sure you are a true Artist at heart.
You care for the legitimate thing, without
going out of the way for the spurious —
eh ? "

Baring's praise was sweet to Mabel. As
Art was all she had to live for now, she
liked to be called a true Artist by one who
knew.

She looked up at him almost reverently.
He had become a hero in her eyes of late
days. She remembered, with a touch of
shame, how swift she had been to judge
him long ago, when she had first known
him. She had criticised where she should

have listened in meek humility ; she had
wilfully closed her eyes to fact, and obstinately
prostrated herself at the feet of a
false idol.

Baring had the benefit of Hubert's downfall.
He could hardly do wrong now in
Mabel's sight.

She had no patience with Constance's
eternal complaining. Connie was married
to a great man, a true Genius, and she
grumbled because he ate cold mutton and
was indifferent to his clothes !

She would have sat down to bread and
water with Hubert ; would have scrubbed
his floor and patched his garments, if he
had liked.

Baring had had the wish of his heart.
Mabel had sat to him for his Rachel, and
a very exquisite Rachel he had made of
her. He had prolonged the sittings as

much as possible, painting very often at
other parts of the picture, while Mabel
imagined he was painting her, for the
pure pleasure of keeping her face opposite
him. In all the years — a great many now
that he had handled brush and palette,
he had never known such absolute delight
in his work as this. He had painted more
perfectly beautiful women than Mabel,
whose features most certainly were open
to criticism, but never before had he seen
a face which always, every time he tried
to paint it, said more than the last
time. Its changeableness was perhaps its
charm. It was like painting a dozen
women, one more bewitching than another.
It seemed to him that he could have
painted a picture with five or six female
fio-ures, each of which should be taken
from Mabel, and every one of which should

be as unlike the other as Mabel herself
would be unlike them all.

He did not talk much to her while she
sat for him ; and this silence was very
acceptable to Mabel, who never felt as if
she wanted to talk now. Her face changed
with her thoughts. Had Baring possessed
the key to her soul, he could have followed
them as the eye follows the passing clouds ;
but souls were locked, chained, and barred
to Stephen Baring, and Mabel's in particular.


Constance flitted in and out of the
studio, although her husband would very
much have liked to forbid her the door, for
her constant aimless chatter disturbed and
irritated him greatly when at work. He
could not do this, however, so bore it as
best he could.

It chanced one afternoon, when Mabel

had been sitting to the artist, that Victor
Barthelemy made his appearance. Baring
had been a little surprised not to see
him before, the French painter having
seemed to him the kind of man whom it is
far easier to invite than to get rid of. He
had, in fact, somewhat repented his rash
offer of hospitality, but, as the days passed
and no Barthelemy appeared, had finished
by almost forgetting his very existence.
He was not best pleased to see him now,
and was pretty frigid in his manner, even
for Stephen Baring.

It would have taken a great deal more
than Stephen Baring, however, to disconcert
Monsieur Barthelemy. In less than
five minutes he had examined most of the
things in the studio, had criticized the picture
on the easel, had paid Mabel a compliment,
and was perfectly easy and at home.

I am the bearer of a message from
Mrs. Baring's brother," he remarked, as
soon as Constance entered the room.

From Hubert ? He has not thought
fit to come near us for a long while,"
Constance said.

That has not been his fault, madame,
He has been ill."

111 ? " exclaimed Connie.

Baring's eyes were on Mabel ; she
neither started nor changed colour.

'' Yes, madame, very ill," said Bar-thereby,
also with a glance towards Mabel.
He had overworked himself, I suppose.
It has been a struggle to keep him alive,
but he is better now ; he has turned the
corner, as the doctor says."

But why — how could you not let us
know before ? " said Connie.

Barthelemy looked at her comically.

Because — well, to tell you the truth,
madame, he wanted perfect quiet — and —
his room is so small, you see. I could do
everything that was wanted myself, and
there was no actual danger. Still, I had
no time to write."

But is he up now ? "

Yes ; he is up now. My message was
to bid you good-bye for him. He is going
away tomorrow."

Going away ? And without coming
to see me ? How very strange ! Well,
Monsieur Barthelemy, you may tell him
that if he doesn't care enough about me to
think it worth while to let me know when
he's ill, or to say good-bye when he's
going away, I — I do. I think it's very
horrid of him, and I shall go tomorrow to
his rooms, and wish him good-bye for
myself."

He starts at six in the morning," said
Barthelemy, imperturbably.

Connie frowned impatiently.

Then I'll go this evening. You'll
take me, won't you, Stephen ? "

'^ Certainly not," answered Baring, with
the quiet decision that Connie had learned
not to question. " Your brother is not
going away for years, I suppose ? "

Barthelemy shrugged his shoulders.

Qui salt f There's no telling where a
man may go when a wo — fit of wandering
comes over him. Durant is going
away in his mistress's service."

'' What do you mean ? " asked Connie,
quickly. '' What mistress ? "

'' Why, Art, to be sure, madame,"
laughed Barthelemy. " She is the most
inexorable mistress a man can have, as
poor Durant, young as he is, has already

found out to this cost. Mademoiselle, too,
I believe, is an artist," looking mockingly
at Mabel, " and can therefore sympathize
with us all. N'est-ce pas, mademoiselle ? "

Mabel gave him neither look nor answer.
He took no offence, however, but
sat down beside her with the most genial
of smiles.

In Paris we have several lady artists,
mademoiselle. They hun us very close
sometimes."

Do they ? "

Yes. I know one in particular, a
Mademoiselle Puysegur, who will make
her mark, unless I am very much mistaken.
Have you ever exhibited, mademoiselle
? "

Mabel shook her head.

No ? Never ? That is a pity. Our
friend Durant thinks highly of your

powers, and let me say that he is a good
judge."

'* Are you going away with Mr.
Durant ? " asked Mabel.

Connie had taken her husband out of the
studio to speak to some one in the hall, and
the two were left alone for the moment.

No ; worse luck. I remain here. He
would rather be alone, and I have work todo.
Do you know, mademoiselle, that you
cut me to the heart the last, which was also
the first, time wee met ? "

I ? " said Mabel, who had almost forgotten
that she had ever spoken to him.

Ah, you have forgotten ? Yes ; that
is so like a woman. I wonder if a woman
ever had a memory?" moralized Barthelemy.
I never met one yet. Why, you were
kind enough to tell me that I deserved
eternal torment for having helped Durant

to paint, or rather to conceive, the pictures
that are going to make a famous man of
him."

It was very rude of me," said Mabel,
simply. " I had no right to speak so, but I
was so — so disappointed."

"You expected Angels, Madonnas, Innocents,
and all that sort of thing ? " said
Barthelemy, with a cynical smile. " But
don't you think, mademoiselle, that those
have been rather overdone ? One can
have too much of even a good thing, you
know."

I care nothing for Angels, or Madonnas,
or Innocents," Mabel said somewhat
warmly. " I was interested in — in my
friend's brother, and I naturally hoped to
see him paint something better than magic-lantern
slides."

Barthelemy laughed a good deal more

heartily than Mabel approved of. She had
not meant to say anything funny.

Magic-lantern slides ! Yery droll ;
really very droll. Ah, mademoiselle, you
are cruel in your sarcasm. But you are
also unjust ; for, although you may not be
able to understand them, Durant's pictures
are exceedingly clever, and show power
genius. They are not conventional, I
admit, and of course you, who are English,
shudder at the unconventional ! "

Poor Mabel, who prided herself on her
entire freedom from such prejudice, and
who had always taken it as a compliment
to be called unconventional herself ! What
a very objectionable person this Frenchman
was ! How could Hubert ever have made
friends with him ?

Shall I give any message for you to
Durant ? " asked Barthelemy, glancing

towards the door, where Baring was just
appearing.

Mabel flushed hotly. He was really
more and more impertinent.

•' Thank you," she answered stiffly.
'' Please tell Mr. Durant that I am very
sorry he has been so ill — and — that I wish
him a pleasant journey."

'' And for this icicle poor Durant is
breaking his foolish heart ! " thought Earth
enemy, as he watched Mabel begin to talk
and laugh with Baring. " Well, well,
there's no accounting for tastes ! "

Changing.

Hubert went away without making any
further sign, and Mabel settled down into
the old monotonous life, all the more uninteresting
now that the unacknowledged
hope which had hitherto shone in the
future was extinguished. There was
nothing in front of her now — nothing.
She would never love any one else. If
Hubert was unworthy, at all events he was
different from all the other men she knew.
There was not one who could compare with
him. She had an offer of marriage that

VOL. II.



winter, which Mrs. Chesham would have
very much Heed her to accept. The man
was just the right number of years older
than herself, rich, and in a good position.

'' You'll never have such a chance
again," her step-father said disagreeably',
when he heard that Mabel had refused
John Lascelles. ^* What the man's thinking
of I am sure I don't know, but this you
may be sure of, he'll never ask you twice."

I don't want him to ask me twice,"
Mabel answered, with her head in the air.

Then what do you want ? " inquired
dear ^Creorge ; " and no answer being
forthcoming to this profound question, he
felt that he had scored a point, and was
triumphant.

Mrs. Chesham was not in her daughter's
confidence. Not even to her mother could
Mabel have laid bare that wound in her

heart, which she knew would be an un-healing
one. Mrs. Chesham had never
suspected her attachment to Hubert, and
she was too absorbed in her husband's
perennial woes and ailments to have any
eyes or ears for the pale face and unaccustomed
silence of the daughter on whose
stronger arm she had always leaned. She
loved Mabel dearly, but it was with the
confident, looking-up affection of a child
rather than with the all-intuitive, understanding
love of a parent. Such natures
as Mabel Moore's have often to pay the
penalty of their strength in their own
loneliness.

For some reason or another, Victor
Barthelemy had lately taken to haunt the
house. Mabel was annoyed at this. She
did not like him, looking upon him as a
kind of Mephistopheles who had borne

away her lover's soul. Barthelemy, however,
declined to be discouraged by her
evident coolness. He ingratiated himself
with Mr. Chesham, and when once that
side of the house was taken, there was no
shutting the door any more. It was rather
curious to see a thorough-going Bohemian,
such as Barthelemy was, reeking of stale
tobacco, and very often of garlic, who
smoked a pipe in the street, and had
probably never had a tall hat on in his
life, sitting tete-astute with the punctilious
and fastidious Mr. Chesham, "talking patent
medicines and detective stories with the
utmost gravity, and apparently heartfelt
interest.

He got on almost as well with Mrs.
Chesham, who, indeed, would never have
dreamed of objecting to any one who had
the good fortune to stand well in her

husband's eyes. George's approval was
the guinea stamp, the brevet mark of merit.
Of Mabel he did not take much notice,
speaking to her but seldom, and then with
what either really was, or what she chose
to fancy was, covert sarcasm, with almost
a shade of contempt, which galled her,
and made her glad to get out of his
sight.

She still sat pretty often for Mr. Baring,
who stood as high in her esteem as ever.
She went up to the studio at least once or
twice in the week ; but, although her visits
were so frequent, she saw less of Constance
than before. She always went straight
into the studio, as there was no time to
lose in those short winter days, and Mr.
Baring kept her closely to her work.
Constance was, it is true, generally in the
room more or less all the time, but they

could not talk much ; and indeed, since
Constance had found Mabel disinclined to
receive her confidences, she had rather
drawn back, and did not seem to want to
talk to her friend " all by herself," in the
old way.

Constance had somewhat changed, if
any one had chosen to be observant enough
to remark it. She was far less disposed
to chatter than before. She would sit
sometimes, for quite a long time, looking
straight in front of her, with a listless
indolence which aroused Mabel's impatience.
Much of her sparkling gaiety was
gone, and with it much of her charm.
She often now seemed just a heavy-eyed,
pale-haired, uninteresting young woman,
whose little tactlessnesses and inanities
appeared far more serious and provoking
than those that had emanated from the

brilliant, butterfly, merry Connie of bygone
days.

To Mabel her want of interest in her
husband and his doings was perfectly
unpardonable. She could not understand
how any living being could live in one
house with Mr. Baring, and have room
left for any other subject of thought than
Mr. Baring's work. She was greatly disappointed
in Connie ; for, though she had
never had a very high opinion of her
abilities, still she had certainly given her
credit for more unselfishness and intelligence.


The one and only creature who sympathized
with Mrs. Baring was Eobson.
Robson knew every corner of Connie's
mind, far more thoroughly than Connie
herself did. She knew, better than anyone
else, except perhaps a mother, could

have known, how much Connie suffered,
how woefully short the realities of her
married life fell of her young mistress's
anticipations. All that had meant life to
Connie was cut away from her. She was
like a peacock or a parrot put into a coal-cellar.
She was utterly at sea, and only
grew more and more so as each day passed,
bringing with it fresh annoyances, and
taking away still another illusion.

The yoke of Mrs. Simes grew no lighter.
All the energy in Connie's disposition was
brought to bear upon this tyrant, but it
was all expended in vain. Mrs. Simes
went her own way, complacently serene
in the consciousness of her own merit, and
of her nephew's approbation. She treated
Constance exactly like a spoilt and wayward
child. The girl's often very bitter
remarks made absolutely no impression

upon her ; she did not even pity Baring
for having taken to himself so discontented
and unpractical a wife. Twenty thousand
pounds were twenty thousand pounds, and
even if she had been mistaken in Connie's
capabilities for learning the mysteries of
housekeeping, the twenty thousand pounds
were there still. With Robson Mrs. Simes
was at deadly feud, but this she rather
enjoyed than otherwise.

I cannot and will not bear it, Robson ! "
Constance exclaimed one day, after a
particularly annoying wrangle with Mrs.
Simes.

You've made your bed, my poor child,"
returned Robson, " and I'm afraid you'll
have to lie on it."

But it's simply intolerable ! Who ever
heard of a married woman being treated
in the way I am ? They behave exactly

as though I wei'e a little schoolgirl.
Would you believe it, Nurse, I had to ask
Stephen for some money this morning,
and he actually refused to give me any !
He said I must have wasted what I had,
and that I must bring him the account
of it. I, who had all that money of my
own !

My dear, perhaps you took Mr. Baring
at a busy time, or perhaps you didn't ask
for it like "

*' A good little girl ! " finished Connie.
No, I dare say I didn't. Oh, if I only
had some one to go to ! If Hubert were
in England, I would make him take me
away ; but I don't even know his address.
I think it's very cruel of him to leave me
so unprotected."

*' Your husband should be your protection,"
said Robson, with a sigh.

But he isn't. You know he won't
listen to me. I am so miserable in this
house ! Why, you know, Robson, there
isn't a room I can sit in except my own
bedroom. The drawing-room's only half
furnished, and Mrs. Simes talks about it
for a week if I have a fire there. I don't
wonder hardly any one comes to see us.
I can't always sit in the studio, and where
am I to go ? "

^' Don't you think, if you were to put
it reasonable-like to Mr. Baring, that he
would let you furnish the drawing-room ? "

I can try, and I think I will," said
Connie, doubtfully, " but I am afraid it
won't be much use."

That evening, accordingly, Connie followed
Baring into the studio, instead of
going up to her own room, as she had
often done lately.

He got out a big Herodotus, filled his
pipe, and sat down, without taking anymore
notice of his wife than if she had
been a kitten.

Connie perched herself on the arm of
his chair, and said, with rather an effort —

'' Do put away that great book for a
minute, Stephen, and let me talk to you."

Baring, with an air of resignation, closed
his book, keeping his finger in to mark the
place, and, speaking with his pipe between
his teeth, said —

'swell?"

It's about — I want to ask you

Pah ! how nasty your tobacco smells ! "

Don't sit into it, then," said the artist,
shortly. " If it's about money, Constance,
I told you this morning that I had none
in the house. I sent it all to the bank
yesterday.

It is about money, then, and you must
listen, Stephen. Do you know that there
is no room in this house for me to sit
m r

Mr. Baring raised his eyebrows.

I was under the impression that the
house contained a dining-room and a
drawing-room."

Yes ; but no one sits in their diningroom,
and the drawing-room is only half
furnished. It's that I want to speak to
you about."

I can't afford it this year," said Baring.

Then let me furnish it."

By all means. I was not aware you
had come into a fortune."

'^I haven't," said Connie, warmly. "But
I've plenty of money of my own, and
I've never asked you for any of it before,
Stephen."

'' Oh, you are going to talk about * my
income' again."

No, I'm not. I wouldn't ever want
a penny of it if you made me comfortable,
as you ought. It is shameful that you
should make me put up with things that
even a poor man's wife wouldn't have to.
Any one would think we had hardly a
farthing in the world. I have been
thinking, and I've determined that in
future I'll have a cheque-book, as I used,
and spend some, at least, of my own
money."

This was a bold speech, and Connie
quaked inwardly as she made it. Baring
smiled a little.

A cheque-book would do you no good,
my dear. I am afraid you somehow rather
misunderstand matters. I will explain
them to you once for all."

He took out his pipe, and looked attentively
into the bowl of it. Then he began,
slowly —

When you married me, you had a
fortune of twenty thousand pounds. You
were of age, and had managed your own
affairs for some little time. I naturally
concluded, as you said nothing about
having a settlement of your money made
upon yourself, that you had sufficient
confidence in me to be sure I should not
waste or misspend your money. This
was my opinion, if I gave the matter any
consideration at all ; but, to tell the truth,
it did not enter my head much. I didn't
marry you for your money."

Oh no, Stephen," said Connie, hastily ;
I never thought you did."

'when a woman marries without a
settlement, her property passes from herself

to her husband. When you married me,
your money became mine."

Then I haven't any ? " asked Connie,
in astonishment.

** Not a farthing," returned Baring, blowing
two or three perfect rings of smoke.

'' Why didn't you — why did nobody tell
me ? " cried Connie, angrily.

Mr. Baring shrugged his shoulders.

'' My dear, it was nobody's business.
You were not a child. But there is no
need to be distressed, Connie ; I am always
ready to give you anything in reason. I
only thought it best to let you know how
things really stand."

Then — I may have the money for the
drawing-room ? "

No ; I cannot afford it this year."

And the other money ? Will you give
me an allowance ? "

An allowance ? Oh, it will be far
better for you to always let me know what
you want, and then I can give you a
cheque."

Connie looked hard at the face just
below her own. Baring smoked on, his
eyes, with the heavy brows contracted
above them, fixed abstractedly on the
opposite wall, as though his mind were
far away, ignoring such trivial matters
as those they had been talking of.

Stephen " she began, then stopped.

Mr. Baring yawned, without taking the
trouble to put up his hand to his mouth.

Stephen, you — you are not going to
be unkind to me, are you ? "

Mr. Baring took his eyes off the wall,
and looked at Constance with an expression
of surprise.

Unkind to you, my dear ? I unkind ?

VOL. II. 26

Why, I don't think I was ever unkind to
a single person in the whole of my life."

Connie's lip quivered.

Mr. Baring patted the shoulder nearest
him, and then pushed down the tobacco in
his pipe.

Run away now, little girl," he said
lightly, '' or else get something to do. I
must look up some facts in this big book."

Constance got down, and slowly went
away to her own room, feeling that she
had gained nothing. And yet — and yet
he was not unkind. Oh no ; you
couldn't say he was unkind. But she was
very miserable, for all that.

The big book kept its facts to itself for
some time longer after her departure.
Baring sat where she had left him, looking
straight in front of him, with no very
pleasant expression on his face.

I was a fool," he was thinking, " a
downright, utter fool ; and so was that old
aunt of mine, who couldn't let me alone.
Here I am, tied for life to this infernal
little doll, when I might have been free
and comfortable. I might have married
the other girl. She may not be as sweet
on the surface as my little idiot of a wife,
but there would have been some satisfaction
to be got out of her, and she would
have been of great use to me. I'm not
sure that she wouldn't outweigh Constance's
twenty thousand pounds. However,
what's done's done, I suppose. Mrs.
Baring, for all her boasted daintiness and
delicacy, is as strong as a young horse,
and won't give me the chance of taking
a second wife, I'm afraid. No — she won't
die. She will probably outlive me''

Thus, and a good deal more in the same

strain, did Constance's husband muse.
Constance herself was being tended in
an hysterical fit by Eobson ; Mrs. Simes,
downstairs, was counting the bundles of
firewood. Truly, there were happier
homes that evening than Stephen Baring's,
Genius and Royal Academician though
he was.

A SHORT FLIGHT.

Mabel was hard at work one morning in
her own little room. It had seemed to her,
after Hubert's defection, that she would
never have the courage to work again ; but
Time had softened this resolution, and one
day she had found herself, brush in hand,
with something of the old eager glow at
her heart.

She had begun a picture which had been
long in her mind, but which in her humility
she almost feared to approach. Even now,
although it was near to completion, no one

had seen it, and she was not sure whether
she would dare to send it in to the
Academy.

The subject was Antigone being reproached
by Creon for having attempted
to render the last sacred rites to her
brother Polynices. There were only three
figures — that of the guard who has
acquainted Creon with his niece's crime,
Creon himself, and Antigone. Mabel had
taken the moment when Antigone says, in
answer to Creon's question why she had so
insulted her patriotic brother Eteocles by
honouring the renegade Polynices, " My
love shall go with thine, but not my
hate."

Her Antigone was a noble figure, and
Mabel had, although not to her own satisfaction,
admirably caught the mingled
expression of pride and tenderness which

the heroic maiden may be imagined to
have worn.

Suffering is sometimes the seed from
which effort and achievement spring.
Perhaps Mabel's sorrow had lent impetus
to her talent. Whatever the reason,
she had certainly improved wonderfully,
however far below her ideal she still
might be.

She was standing, brushes and palette in
hand, at a little distance from her easel,
frowning discontentedly at her picture,
when the door opened and Constance
appeared.

Connie ! " said Mabel, mentally bidding
adieu to her morning's work.

Yes ; it's me," said Constance, with her
habitual happy disregard for grammar.

Come in, dear. Wait ; I'll clear a chair
for you."

If I'm disturbing you " began

Constance, in a dull, heavy way.

Nonsense," said Mabel, cheerily. " I'm
delighted to see you. There, now you're
comfortable. Now tell me all the news."

The news is," said Connie, " that —
I've left Stephen."

What did you say ? " cried Mabel,
turning round and looking at her visitor
in dismay.

I've left Stephen," repeated Connie, in
the same curious, lifeless tone she had used
ever since she came in.

^' What do you mean ? Left him —
downstairs ? "

No ; I have left him — come away
from him. I am not going to live with
him any longer."

But, Connie," said Mabel, now seriously
alarmed, " do you know — have you considered

what you are doing ? What can
be the reason for such a sudden action ? "

It isn't sudden," Constance said
sullenly. " It's been coming to this a
long time past. I would have told you,
only you never would listen."

I didn't mean to be unsympathetic,
dear," said Mabel, gently. " But, you
know, it is not wise to interfere between
husband and wife."

'* I dare say not," returned Connie,
bitterly ; " not in the ordinary way. But
Stephen isn't an ordinary husband — at
least, for other women's sakes, I hope he
is not."

No, indeed ; he is no ordinary man at
all. You should be proud of him, Constance."


Constance smiled sadly.

Ah, I don't mean what you mean.

dear. Certainly he is extraordinary in
every way. But I don't mean to be the
victim of his genius any more."

Have you and he had a quarrel ? "

A quarrel ? Many quarrels. But last
night I made up my mind not to stand it
any longer."

What was the matter ? "

Oh, nothing much more than the old
story. I cannot bear that girl Martha,
whom Mrs. Simes is so fond of. She is
not in the least fit to be in a gentleman's
house. Last night she put only one bit
a bit, not even a whole one — of candle
in my bedroom, and when I told her to
get another, she said that Mrs. Simes said
that was all I could have ! Of course I
went down to Stephen at once, and he
actually sided with his detestable old
aunt."

Constance had told her story rapidly,
and with flushing cheeks.

And are yon really going to leave
your husband's house for such a reason ? "
asked Mabel, who would have cheerfully
gone to bed by a night-light if Genius had
so willed it.

Yes," Connie said, as bitterly as before.
I dare say it all sounds very trifling and
paltry to you ; but then, you see, this is
only one of many things. It has become
intolerable. Oh, why — why did I ever
marry ? I was so happy here."

She put her face between her hands and
sobbed quietly.

Where is Robson ? " asked Mabel, who
privately thought Constance a great goose,
though she felt very sorry for her.

Packing up my things. I came away
so as to make sure. Stephen might have
locked me up "

At this moment the parlour-maid
knocked.

Come in," said Mabel.

If you please, ma'am, Mr. Baring is in
the drawing-room, and would like to see
Mrs. Baring."

"Oh, Mabel, Mabel!" cried Connie,
shrinking together in her chair, " he's
come after me ! Oh, hide me — hide me !
Don't let him get at me."

Be quiet, Connie," said Mabel, severely.
*' How can you be so silly ! Your own
husband ! Any one would think poor
Mr. Baring was an ogre. You'd better go
down and see him."

'^No, no!" said Connie, beginning the
hysterical crying that Mabel had heard
once or twice already. " I won't ! I
can't ! "

But you must, dear, I'm afraid."

I would rather kill myself."

To Mabel's great relief, Robson here
entered the room. She looked pale and
distressed, but at once took possession
of Connie, who was now in a regular
hysterical fit.

What's to be done. Miss Moore ? "
Robson asked. '' Mr. Baring's downstairs,
and I'm afraid he's terrible angry."

Mrs. Baring says she will not go to
him, but she must," said Mabel.

Robson looked pitifully at Constance.

Poor lamb ! Yes, I'm afraid she must.
You see, he's her husband."

Exactly," said Mabel, thinking that
it would perhaps have been better for
Connie had she not had this faithful but
somewhat prejudiced woman to encourage
her in her dissatisfaction.

Couldn't you go down, ma'am," suggested

Robson, hesitatingly, " and maybe
just pacify him a bit? He did swear
something awful."

'' I dare say ! " thought Mabel. " Oh
yes," she answered ; " I'll go down. But
do try and get your mistress to be a little
more reasonable, Robson. She can't go on
being a child for ever, you know."

Ah, ma'am," said Robson, looking at
her with a shake of the head and a
suspicious moisture about her honest brown
eyes, " you're young, and you're a bit hard.
When you've seen as much of life as I
have you'll grow softer like, angell understand
better. But do your best with him,
do Miss Mabel, there's a dear."

Am I hard ? " thought Mabel on her
way downstairs. " I shouldn't like to be.
I hope I am not."

Mr. Baring was pacing the drawing-room

with a very Unhandsome scowl upon
his face. He turned fiercely round as the
door opened.

'' What the devil Oh, Miss Moore.

I beg your pardon ; I thought it was my
wife. She is here, is she not ? I understood
from that meddling old fool Robson
that she was coming here."

Yes ; she is here," said Mabel.

There was a pause. Mabel felt embarrassed,
and did not know how to begin
her work of pacification.

A pretty pass she has brought things
to with her folly ! " said Baring, angrily,
presently.

I am very sorry," Mabel ventured.

And what is it all about ? A lot of
childish nonsense — nothing more. It's too
ridiculous to talk about — to tell you of
And here am I, wasting my time and the

daylight. It's enough to drive a man
mad."

It is very sad," said Mabel, gently ;
but I think you will not be so angry,
Mr. Baring, if you remember how much
Connie has always been allowed to have
her own way. You know, she is almost a
child in some things."

•' I know that she is my wife, and that
I have to live with her," returned Baring,
doggedly. " She must leave off her
childish ways now. I can't put up with
them. Where is she ? I am going to
take her home."

'* Couldn't you — won't you leave her
with us for a few days ? I don't think
she is very well, and perhaps "

No ; she shall have none of her own
way. She shall come back to my house
at my bidding now, to-day."

He spoke masterfully, and Mabel could
read no signs of yielding on bis stern,
pale face. Sbe said timidly, feeling that
she bad failed in ber mission —

Cannot you wait a little ? I am afraid
sbe is hysterical."

Baring gave a short, savage laugh.

Ob, Constance's husband bas bad to
become familiar with hysterics. I know
all about them. Perhaps I can go up to
ber — can I ? "

Ye — es," said Mabel, inwardly dismayed
at the idea of Baring's entering
ber little room, but not exactly knowing-bow
to refuse.

Sbe led the way up. On the stairs
Constance's half laughing, half crying became
distinctly audible. Baring uttered
an exclamation under bis breath.

When the door was opened, Robson was

VOL. II. 27

seen applying her usual alternatives of
scolding and coaxing.

Take that — woman away, please, and
leave me with my wife," Baring said
angrily,

Constance, at the sound of his voice,
cowered into her chair and wept still
louder.

Robson, sorely against her will, was
obliged to go out of the room, with one
last whispered admonition to her mistress.

When Mabel and Robson had gone.
Baring walked up to his wife, and, laying
a heavy hand on her shoulder, said in a
voice Connie had never heard from him
before —

Stop that ! "

Connie caught her breath for a moment,
and then gave a wild scream of laughter,
and went on again.

Stop that, you little devil, I say ! "
repeated Baring, giving his wife a rough
shake.

Connie somewhat lowered her tone, but
sobbed as bitterly as ever.

Baring took hold of her arm, and pulled
her out of the chair.

Stand up ! " he said between his
teeth, and Constance found herself able to
stand.

He stood in front of her, with a hand
on either shoulder, a hand that pressed
heavily and pained her.

She kept her eyes obstinately upon the
ground, so as not to meet his, which she
knew were fixed upon her face. After
a minute or two she left off sobbing out
loud, and only her tear-stained features
and heaving bosom bore witness to the
late tempest. When she was quiet. Baring

pushed her into her chair, and took another
himself.

He gave a contemptuous look at her, as
she sat huddled up, the very image of limp
despair and then, while waiting for her
to grow quite calm, he proceeded to make
an inspection of the room. He had quite
recovered his own temper by this time.

The picture on the easel at once arrested
his attention.

By Jove ! " he muttered, and going-nearer,
examined it closely. " This can
never be that girl's work, surely ! It's

really uncommonly good ; only Yes,

I must show her that."

Opening the door, he called, " Miss
Moore ! "

Mabel quickly obeyed the summons.
She was not far off.

Have you — is she — oh, is she ill ? " she

exclaimed as she caught sight of Connie's
prostrate form.

Oh, she's all right," said Baring, impatiently.
" That's not what I called you
for. Look here, Miss Moore ; is this your
work ? "

"Yes," answered Mabel, amazed at this
sudden transition.

Well, I congratulate you. It's really
very good indeed — excellent. But this
girl's arm is out of drawing. Here, don't
you see ? "

He took up a brush, and in a few
minutes had put the defective arm right
enough for Mabel to go on with.

I had no notion you painted as well
as this ; I'm quite surprised," said the
artist, exactly in his usual tone. He
seemed to have forgotten all about his wife.

Connie raised herself, and began pinning

up her disordered hair. Her movement
attracted Baring's notice ; he turned round
with a quick frown.

Put on your bonnet and come," he
said. " I've got a cab at the door. You
must let me see this again, Miss Moore.
Of course you are going to send it in ? "

'' If you think it has a chance," murmured
Mabel, helping Connie on with her
mantle.

A chance ! Yes, that it has. Now,
Constance, are you ready ? "

Constance docilely followed her husband
downstairs, and got into the waiting
hansom.

You can tell that precious old woman
to take an omnibus back," were Baring's
parting words ; " and mind, now, that you
don't go and spoil that Antigone of yours."

AN ABRUPT DISMISSAL.

Baring said not a word, either good or
bad, to Constance as they drove home. At
first he was thinking more of Mabel's
picture, which had really surprised him,
sceptic as he was with regard to women's
work in art. Perhaps his astonishment
inclined him somewhat to overrate the
merits of the picture ; it was so much fora
woman to have achieved anything at all
worth looking at.

A stifled sob from Constance recalled
him to other matters. He gave a sidelong

look at her. She was very pale and woebegone,
and sat staring with lack-lustre
eyes at the horse's head in front of her.

Baring felt his anger rising anew. It
was quite too absurd that his time should
be wasted in this manner. Over and over
again he mentally cursed his own folly.
He did not attempt to analyze the situation
; that was not his way. Things
either were or they were not. Why they
were, or whether they could be altered,
was not his affair. By going straight
ahead, he divested life of many of its most
complex problems, and saved a good deal
of the time and energy, of which less
happily constituted minds are so lavish.

When they reached home, he said, as he
put his key into the door, after leaving
Constance to crawl unaided out of the
hansom —

Come into the studio ; I want to speak
to you."

Constance meekly followed him. She
was in a desperate fright.

Baring waited until she had removed
her outdoor things and sat down, then,
drawing up another chair, he placed himself
astride on it, so that his face, resting
on his arms folded on the back, directly
confronted hers.

And now," he began in a very quiet
voice, the tone of which nevertheless
sent a shudder all through Connie —
'* now, perhaps, you will be good enough
to explain the meaning of this behaviour."


Connie looked down at her lap, nervously
twisting her fingers together.

"I am waiting," said her husband, after
a minute.

You know why I went away," she got
out with an effort.

No."

I told you last night I couldn't bear it
any longer."

Because I said my aunt was not to
blame for taking care of my property ? "
said Baring, contemptuously. ^* An excellent
reason for leaving your husband and
making a fool of him."

I can't bear it any longer," repeated
Connie.

'' Bear what ? "

The life you make me lead. Let me
go away, anywhere, with Eobson, and
live by myself, if you don't like me to goto
the Cheshams."

Look at me, Constance," said Baring.

Constance raised her head, but dropped
it again directly she met the gaze of those

dark eyes, which seemed to glow and
radiate as with some hidden fire. Baring
laughed sarcastically.

What a wretched little coward it is !
Do you think I am going to bite you ? "

N — no," answered Constance. She
was half afraid he might be going to
strike her.

Come, then, look at me."

Constance pulled herself together, and
managed to keep her eyes — poor, tear-brimming,
weary blue eyes that they were
on her husband's face.

That's right," said Baring, looking full
at her until she began to tingle all over.
Now listen, Constance. I haven't either
the time or the disposition for these continual
disputes. I am a busy man, and
ought to be able to keep my mind free for
my work. I have long since found out

that you take no interest in my work.
What is it you do take an interest in except
your scent and your clothes ? You refuse
to help to keep my house. If you had
your own way you would have ruined me
with your extravagance before now. I
have never known a person like you in
my life. What was it you married me
for ? "

He stopped abruptly. He was not in
the least degree moved ; he was only
girding at the loss of his precious moments.

The tears welled over, and rained down
Connie's cheeks. Twice her lips parted to
speak, and twice her voice failed her. Her
throat was dry and contracted. At last
she murmured —

I loved you, Stephen, and I thought
you loved me."

Baring put up his hand to his mouth.

You loved me 1 But, great heavens,
where are the proofs of your love ? Have
you ever, since you entered this house,
given yourself the least little trouble about
me ? But it's no use discussing these
matters. I only want you to understand
that I will allow nothing and nobody —
do you hear ? — nothing and nobody to
come in my way. You talk of going to
live by yourself. I will not consent to
that. You are my wife, and you shall live
in my house and behave as a wife should."

Terrified as Constance was, she found
sufficient courage to shake her head and
say—

I cannot. I shall die."

Baring looked at the plump cheeks and
rounded form before him.

No, you won't die. You must accustom
yourself to your life."

I wish I were dead now ! " said Connie,
beginning to sob again.

Baring paused for a second. He was
inwardly echoing the wish. Then he
looked at his watch.

Now, you see, it is two o'clock already,
and I have not done a single stroke of
work today. That won't do, you know,
Constance. And even now I have not
finished."

He threw back his head, and looked up
at the ceiling for a full two minutes, at
the end of which he said —

I know, Constance, from whom the
spirit of rebellion that is so strong in you
comes. It is from that absurd woman
Robson. I can quite understand that she
does not find my small household so
comfortable as your aunt's, or even Mrs.
Chesham's, where expenditure was lavish.

But I must look after my own interests ;
and therefore, as I married you and not
Robson, Robson must go."

Connie stared at him in such astonishment
that she forgot to be afraid.

Robson go ! Are you mad, Stephen ? "
I hope not. Yes, Robson must go."
Go ! Why, I have never been without
Robson in my life ! "

Nor need you have been, if you had
chosen to behave properly."

Stephen, you cannot mean it ? "
Constance, I not only can, but do."
Do you want to kill me ? "
No ; I only want you to be reasonable,"
Stephen, I won't go away ; I will
never say another word about Mrs. Simes
or anything ; but leave me Robson."

Mr. Baring stood up and stretched
himself.

'^ No, Constance. You should have
taken care how you pushed me to such
a point. I am resolved now ; and when
I have once made up my mind "

He rang the bell. When Martha
appeared, he asked —

Has Mrs. Robson returned ? "

Yes, sir."

Ask her to come here, will you ? "

When Martha had gone, Constance
started up, and clutching at her husband's
arm, cried —

Stephen, Stephen! have mercy! Forgive
me ! Oh, leave me Robson ! "

Mr. Baring put his arm round his wife
and led her back to her chair.

Now sit there," he said in an intense,
quiet tone. " Don't dare to stir."

Robson came in at this moment.

Mrs. Robson," said Mr. Baring,

abruptly, " as Mrs. Baring has no further
occasion for your services, I shall be glad
if you will leave to-day. I will pay you
your month, of course."

The blow was an entirely unexpected
one. The woman turned white, and looked
at Connie in a bewildered way.

"You heard what I said?" inquired
Mr. Baring. " How much do we owe
you ?

He put his hand in his pocket.

Robson's habitual self-control and restraint
before her superiors prevented her
from showing all she felt. She said, ina
low voice —

Do I understand you aright, sir ? You
are going to part me from Miss Connie ? "

"No, from Mrs. Baring," said the artist,
coldly.

Twenty-three years I have been with

VOL. II. 28

her — the whole of her life. Oh, sir, don't
do it ! She is but young yet, and so inexperienced.
She will grow wiser intime
"

Yes, I hope so, but it must be without
your help. Come, my good woman, you
are wasting my time."

Robson's eyes flashed.

*' You are turning me out, then, sir ?
And I am to say good-bye so to my child,
whom I have loved as much as any mother
ever loved her own child ? Miss Connie,
can't you say nothing ? "

Connie raised a deathly white, imploring-face
towards her husband. Mr. Baring
went up to his easel, and wheeled it into
a corner, to make room for another.

Robson ran up to her mistress, and
folded her in her arms.

Oh, Robson ! oh, nurse ! I shall die ! "

whispered Connie. " Oh, say you won't
go ! Don't leave me ! "

Robson held her close ; but, however hard
it was, she knew that hers was the losing
side. Baring had might and right on
his — submission was inevitable. For her
nursling's sake, she must make it as easy
as she could.

My darling, my darling," she murmured,
" don't you give way. I'll never
go far from you ; I'll be near you and
watch over you."

She put her faithful hand on Connie's
head as she spoke, and at the thought that
those shining coils of hair would be tended
by her no more, she broke down, and
sobbed as bitterly as Connie herself for a
moment. But only for a moment. Then,
with one long, last clasp, she freed herself
from Connie's clinging arms, and stood up.

She told Baring what was owing to her
in tones almost as cold and self-contained
as his own, took the money, and, with a
parting, lingering look at her foster-child,
she walked out of the room.

Constance lay helpless in her chair. She
felt utterly dazed. What was she to do
now ? Her imagination was not a particularly
vivid one, but nevertheless it showed
her a future of utter desolation and despair.
Life without Robson 1 One might as well
have cut off Connie's hands and feet at
once. How was she to brush and arrange
her hair ? Who would see to her clothes,
patiently and untiringly obeying every
whim and fancy ? And who, oh who,
would comfort her now ?

Servant and comparatively uneducated
woman though Robson was, she had in
some measure been her young mistress's

soul. Without her, Constance would have
been rudderless all these years, at the
mercy of every wind that blew ; deprived
of her now, sbe would be entirely forsaken.

Love had for some few brief days given
to this poor little Undine some faint semblance
of a soul of her own. During
her short engagement, there had been
fluttering and vague instincts in her
hitherto childish bosom, which, carefully
and tenderly nurtured, might in time have
blossomed, and have even come to fruition.
Her fitful attempts at learning to draw,
her painstaking interest in picture-galleries,
had been indications of the
change that love had begun, and which
love alone could have carried to perfection.

But timid, inexperienced love like hers
wanted the most zealous attention, the soft
and genial air, the even temperature of

a hothouse. Instead of this, the poor
awakening Psyche had been rudely banished
to Arctic regions, where it lead
quickly folded its wings, and sunk quiescent
under a deadly and annihilating
burden of ice.

Constance had soon ceased to love her
husband, or to consider him in any other
light but that of a gaoler. Robson had
been her only stay, her one safeguard. So
long as her faithful nurse was there, she
felt herself protected, taken care of. But
Robson gone, she might as well be dead.
Her husband, whether intentionally or not,
had succeeded in impressing her with a
sense of physical fear. She was afraid of
his striking her, though nothing was
probably further from his thoughts.

She did not see how she was to go on
Divino; without Robson. It was evidently

no use to run away. Mabel was the only
person she could go to, for she had no
honey to go into lodgings by herself. But
Mabel would take Mr. Baring's part — she
always did ; and even if Mabel would let
her stay, Mr. Baring would soon find her
out, and fetch her away. What an awful
thing it was to be married ! She wondered
if all, or many, women had to suffer as she
did. In novels it was so very different ;
there the man was always at the woman's
feet, it was she who commanded. How"
ready she had been to marry Stephen !
How proud she had been that he had
chosen her ! And how she had tried,
really tried, to fit herself to be an artist's
wife ! She looked at her husband as he
stood quietly working, and experienced
almost a feeling of repulsion as her eyes
travelled over his tall, well-knit figure.

He did look like a o-entlemaii, or would,
if lie were properly clothed. She could
never have married a Bohemian, like
Monsieur Barthelemy, or a common-looking
man. But, oh, how dreadfully shabby his
clothes were ! Not carelessly shabby, asa
country gentleman's might be, but sordidly,
meanly shabby. From his clothes
she wandered to his face. He had his
'' working look '' on — a stern, concentrated,
piercing look, which Connie somehow
fancied was like the expression a judge
would wear while condemning a prisoner
to death.

He seemed so fair away from her. She
was no more than a piece of furniture in
his house ; he did not care for her society,
or i'A^Q the trouble to disguise that he
thought her foolish and troublesome ; why,
then, would he not let her live her little

life in peace? She would not have asked
for much ; only to have proper clothes,
and a drawing-rooui where she could have
received befriends and a decently appointed
table, and — and — perhaps a carriage.
Of course, with her money and Stephen's
position, she had thought they would
have a carriage. And she would not have
been exacting even about that. One horse
would have done quite well, and no footman.
Then she could have made plenty
of nice friends, and have enjoyed herself
as she used. And what harm would
it have done him? He was worried and
vexed now because she resented being kept
like a pauper; he said her temper interfered
with his work. Well, then, why not better
matters, when it could be done so easily,
without even the smallest exertion on his
part % Could it be that he was really fond

of money — of money for its own sake?
Constance had a superb disregard for
money ; she considered it common and bad
form to give any thought to it. To know
that her fortune was accumulating comfortably
would have afforded her no satisfaction
whatever; she liked to be able to gratify
every whim and fancy of her own, and of
others too, when she noticed them ; but the
pleasure of hoarding was unknown to her,
and even when lie suspected it in her
husband, it only seemed *' funny " to her,
and nothing more.

When she had done looking at him, lie
settled herself more comfortably in her
chair, and began to think of what lay
before her. Would lie let her have another
maid ? A few months ago she would have
taken this as a matter of course, but Baring
had sufficiently broken her in for her to

have grave doubts on the subject, and to
dread broaching it to him. Perhaps she
had better try what lie could do alone fora
day or two, and when Stephen had got
into a more kindly temper, she might ask
him then.

Poor Constance ! Her frills and her hair
were what occupied her mind. The real
questions of her life never even presented
themselves to her. How she and her
husband, as man and as woman, were to
carry on the years together ; whether her
duty was to force herself into his groove, or
to attempt to soften him to her own way ; —
to these things she never gave a thought.
Her only wish was to secure some pleasure
and ease for herself. If she could not
have much, she would do with little ; but
some she must have. Even her grief for
Robson was selfish, and had more to do

with what Robson had done for her than
with Robson's own personality.

Mr. Baring waited until his keen ears
caught the sounds which told him that
Robson and her boxes had gone, when he
said to his wife —

You lead better go, Constance ; I am
expecting a model."

Constance got up, swept her things
together, and departed with an air which
she intended to be very dignified, but
which her husband never even noticed.

As soon as the door had closed behind
her. Baring threw down his brushes and
began to walk up and down the studio.

He, too, regretted his marriage — at least,
he was almost sure lie did. He would not
have liked to part with the money which
had made the marriage, though. The pill
was unpalatable, still it was a gilded one.

How stupidly fate arranges things, he
thought. Why could not Mabel Moore
have had twenty thousand pounds instead
of Constance ? What a delightful wife she
would have made ! Lie was the very
antithesis of Constance. He was sure she
would have suited him perfectly. Constance
was not any use even to paint from,

whereas Mabel

And yet, charming girl though Mabel
was, she did not seem likely to marry. Atone
time he had thought that she cared for*
that young fool, Constance's brother, but
he had done for himself with his Salle de
la Reality. Mabel was wasted where she
was ; she would grow into an old maid,
and lose her beauty before its time. What
a pity she could not come and live with
them ! She could take care of Constance,
and keep her in order, and sit to him, and

do the housekeeping ; for he was sure she
would do it as well as Mrs. Simes, and she
would certainly be much more ornamental.
But, of course, there was no chance of that.
Or if only he had not married; or if

only Yes, if only Constance would

die!

Perhaps — who knew ? — she might have
some illness which would carry her off and
leave him free. There were so many
contingencies. One was always hearing
of accidents, or fatal sicknesses ; but they
were just the sort of things which happen
to other people, and not to one's self.
Constance would probably live on, hale
and strong, and dance to her second
wedding over his grave. Stupid little
creature ! Was there no chance for him ?
Could he not shake himself free ?

He sat down in the chair his wife had

SO lately occupied, and stared into the fire.
What could he do ? If Constance were
once out of the way he could marry Mabel.
That Mabel would marry him he had not
the slightest doubt. He was quite sure
she liked — perhaps more than liked him.
How pretty she was ! How altogether
charming !

Here Mr. Baring forgot himself for a
few minutes in the remembrance of Mabel's
face. It was such an enigmatic face !
Other faces were so easily learned — but
hers ! He thought he knew it so welland
yet, every time he saw it, it brought
him fresh surprises.

Mr. Baring was not of a poetical turn of
mind. He did not liken Mabel's face to the
sea — ever changing, yet always the same.
Her mouth was a mouth to him, and nota
pomegranate bud. Her ears never made

him think of a shelL Her eyes were not
stars, nor magnets, nor jewels ; they were
merely eyes. No similes of any kind
occurred to him. He only felt that she
was very beautiful, with an incomprehensible,
ever-fresh beauty, which was unlike
anything he had known.

As a moment before he had reproached
Fate, now he began to upbraid custom.
What a shame it was there should be this
beautiful girl in the world, who would bethe
very completion of his life, and that
he should be so inexorably divided from
her, just because he was married already !
How absurd it was that a man should
have to marry everybody he admired !

Baring would have been quite content,
for his own part, to have had Mabel an
inmate of his house, as things were. It
was neither his principles nor his conscience

that would have troubled him ; it

was simply the opinion of the world. He

would have sacrificed a thousand Mabel

to himself and to his Art. No priest of

Moloch or Bel ever knew less compunction

than Stephen Baring when his Art, which

was identical with himself, was in question.

It seemed to him a matter of course that he

should have what was necessary and right

for the furtherance of his work. He

would have been quite capable, like the

Greek painter of old, of thrusting a knife

into the breast of a man in order to study

his dying agonies ; it would probably not

even have occurred to him that he was

cruel. Mabel's honour, Mabel's reputation,

Mabel's peace of mind and self-respect —

what were they but fit sacrifice for Genius !

But however willingly Mr. Baring

would have offered them up, he knew
VOL. II. 29

that it was absolutely impossible for him
to do so. Two thing's stood in his way :
first, Mabel herself, who, he had sufficient
discernment to see, would never be false to
herself — not that the artist put it in that
way — and, secondly, his own fear of
scandal. Mr. Baring cared very much
what the world thought of him ; a great
deal more than people gave him credit for.
He was wholly indifferent whether he
followed the fashions in his clothes or his
table ; for he was quite aware that a
successful man may arrogate to himself as
many eccentricities as he chooses, without
incurring the blame of Mrs. Grundy. He
could allow himself to be called miserly,
careless, Bohemian, erratic ; that was all
very well. None of those terms clashed
with his pictures. If he were careful of
money, negligent of his person, it might

be that lie gave to the poor in secret — no
one could say that he did not. But if ever
a breath of scandal touched him, that
would be a very different thing. The
painter of Madonnas, saints, and Biblical
subjects an unprincipled and loose liver !
That would never do.

Having reached, by a somewhat less
self-analytic road, this point in his reflections,
Mr. Baring poked his fire into a
blaze, and returned to Constance.

Constance was in the way. How was
he to get rid of her ? He felt aggrieved
that she should be in his way. What
business had she, an insignificant little
animal, to count as an item of any moment
in so important a life as his ? It really
was unfair and absurd. It was all his
aunt Simes's fault. Still, there she was,
and what was to be done with her ?

That something must be done was
evident. Mr. Baring was not the man to
sit down quietly and wait. If events did
not shape themselves, he must give them
a helping hand. Quite calmly and reasonably,
he went through the various modes
of escape open to him.

Violence was not to be thought of. He
was not going to run himself into danger.
Poison was out of the question for the
same reason. He knew too little about
the fatal agents which destroy life to risk
having anything to do with them. But
how, then ? How ?

He sat, absolutely motionless, buried in
thought, his brows contracted, his eyes
fixed on the fire. The minutes passed —
stretched into hours — and still Stephen
Baring sat turning over in his mind the
knotty problem. It was not until the

studio had become dark, and the fire had
burned low, that he raised his head with a
smile which told that he had found a
solution.

He put coals on the fire and lighted the
gas ; then sat down and wrote a letter,
which he took to the post himself, afterwards
returning to the studio, and working
away with redoubled ardour until dinner-time.


CANDID CRITICISM.

Mabel felt greatly encouraged by Mr.
Baring's praise of lier picture. When he
and his wife had driven off, she returned
to her room, and stood for a while, fondly
looking at her work. To be so praised by
him, the master of masters ! It was enough
to make her sure of herself — not vainly so,
but sure that if she only worked hard
enough, she would attain to something.

Poor Mr. Baring ! It was hard that
Constance should have turned out sillier
than even Constance had any right to turnout.

Imagine being dragged from the
beautiful creations of one's fancy to fetch
back one's runaway wife in a hansom !
Surely it would be wiser, if only for his
own sake, to supply her with tons of
candles and acres of looking-glass ? It
was a pity that Hubert was not there to
bring his wilful little sister to reason.

Hubert ! The thought of him sent a shock
through her ; she looked at her picture
with tearful, wistful e^'es, and her hand
involuntarily went to her left side, as if to '
press back the pain which gave a fresh
throb as she remembered. Hubert was
gone — vanished from her life. If she
succeeded with her Antigone, her triumph
would be hers alone, and therefore comparatively
worthless. Hubert had diverged
from the path they once had followed
together ; he was lost to her sight for ever.

Why had he not stayed with her? Why
had he been so weak? Had he not Mr.
Baring's glorious example before him ?
Had he not been certain of her love ?
Could he not have waited just a few
little years, so short in comparison with
those long, never-ending years she must
live through now, until the legitimate reward
of legitimate toil should reach him ?
He would have been so proud of her
success ! They could have worked together
so beautifully. Oh, how short-sighted, how
faint-hearted he had been !

And she had been right — she was convinced
she had been right in acting as she
had. It was curious how often she found
it necessary to reassure herself of this
fact, but she was none the less absolutely
certain.

Monsieur Barthelemy continued to visit

his friend Mr. Cliesham as assiduously as
ever. Mabel frequently wondered whether
he really took a pleasure in her stepfather's
society. It seemed to her so
incomprehensible that any one should
voluntarily talk to " dear George." But
Victor was not George's step-daughter,
and Mr. Chesham did not therefore think
it a sacred duty to make him feel
that he was the chief of sinners. On the
contrary, he was far more genial and
sympathetic with the Frenchman than he
had ever been with any one before.
Barthelemy was so amusing ; he was as
good as a number of Punch. And then
he had so sensible a perception of Mr.
Chesham's woes and ills ; he took them
all so seriously. There was also a delightful
novelty and excitement in trying
the curious drugs and preparations which

Yictor procured from a French chemist,
a friend of his, and brought to the invalid.
It was true that he was a little Bohemian
in his ways. He did smoke rather strong
tobacco, but that was better than using
Mr. Chesham's choice cigars. He might
with advantage have tried some of our
famous and well-advertised English soaps;
but, after all, the use of soap could not
have made him more agreeable, or more
deferential than he already was, and it was
not unpleasant to feel one's self superior
in one's own immaculate cleanliness, while
at the same time taking credit for one's
liberal and broad views of life.

To Mrs, Chesham, Barthelemy was like
corn in Egypt. He supplied her husband
with new subjects of interest, he told him
ghastly stories of student life, and, above
all, he played chess with him, diverting

from her bead the torrents of abuse at her
stupidity and carelessness, to wbicb she
bad been so long exposed without ever
getting accustomed to them. And to her
he was so respectful, so almost filial with
his little airs of affectionate badinage.
Decidedly, Barthelemy was an acquisition.
She only wished that he and Mabel got on
better together.

For Mabel and Yictor were at daggers
drawn. Mabel found it impossible to forget
that it was Barthelemy who had led
Hubert astray, as she termed it. She was
quite sure that was the only reason for her
dislike of him ; quite certain that it had
nothing to do with his treatment of herself,
annoying and wounding to her self-love as
that treatment often was.

Barthelemy had a way at times of
listening with an appearance of the profoundest

interest and respect to anything
til at fell from Mabel's lips ; if any point of
possible discussion arose between them, he
would withdraw with an elaborate show of
humility from so unequal a contest. At
other times, on the contrary, he would
devote himself in her presence to the
recital of all the morbid and realistic
horrors imaginable, addressing himself to
her as if aware that she was peculiarly
interested in such subjects, and remaining
apparently utterly impervious to the
disgust she took no trouble to hide. Or
he would draw her out skilfully and
patiently, only to turn round on her with
biting and contemptuous sarcasm when
she had so far forgotten herself as to
become enthusiastic. He had often expressed
a wish to be allowed to see some
of her work, but she had always flatly

refused. That, at least, should be sacred
from his sneering tongue.

She knew that Barthelemy was in
correspondence with Hubert, because he
made no secret of the fact ; indeed, it was
one of the ways in which he annoyed her
most, for he always turned to her specially
when he had any news from Hubert, as if
she were the principal person to be interested
by it. She resented the impertinence,
and tried hard, by never asking
a single question, to show her perfect
indifference to Hubert's whereabouts and
Hubert's doings. And yet, although she
despised herself for it, her pulse always
quickened at the sound of that once
beloved name, and she knew in her heart
of hearts that, if she stayed in the drawing-room
night after night when Barthelemy
was there, it was only that she might not
lose a chance of hearing it.

The Antigone had not been far from
completion when Mr. Baring had seen it.
Mabel worked hard, and finished it about
a week later. She had it brought downstairs
to be packed ready to send to the
Academy, and also, sorely against her
will, to exhibit it to Mr. Chesham, who,
having been informed by his wife of the
praise bestowed upon it by Mr. Baring,
expressed a desire to be allowed to judge
for himself.

It was put in a good light in the drawing-room,
and thither Mr. Chesham repaired to
give his opinion.

Isn't it lovely, darling ? " said Mrs.
Chesham, fondly, as her portly lord and
master stood before it.

Mabel knelt down by the fire, and held
out her hands to the blaze. Although
she was indifferent to her step-father's

opinion, she did hope he would not say
anything" very disagreeable about her
picture.

Mr. Chesham looked at it long and
critically.

Hem ! hem ! And so your friend
approves of it ? "

Mr. Baring said it was sure to get in,"
Mrs. Chesham hastened to say.

'' Hem ! Are you sure the perspective's
quite right, Mabel ? "

Perspective ! Who talks of perspective?"
said a well-known voice; and,
to Mabel's dismay, Monsieur Barthelemy
appeared on the scene, running up unannounced,
as '\ had become his familiar
wont.

She would have flown to cover up her
picture, but disdained to let him think she
was afraid of him. So, with a flush on her

cheek, she stood up, and tried to look
unconcerned.

Ah ! " said Barthelemy, seeing the
picture, '' what have we here ? A work of
art ? "

Yes," answered Mr. Chesham, pressing
this wife's arm to insure her silence ; " ita
picture brought for me to look at. Tell
me now, what do you think of it ? I
should like your candid opinion."

Barthelemy, perfectly unsuspicious, took
a good look at the picture. .

What is it ? " he asked.

'' Antigone defying Creon."

Ha ! a classical subject — something in
your line, mademoiselle," said Barthelemy,
with a wicked glance at Mabel. '' Ye — es,
it's not so very bad. Has rather an
geography look about it. Don't you think
so, crier amie — to Mr. Chesham.

Dear George " smiled delightedly. Poor
little Mrs. Chesham was in agonies.
Mabel's lip curled.

Tame — decidedly tame. The Antigone's
face is not bad ; but Monsieur —
Creon, did you say ? — looks rather too
much like an Italian with an organ.
Probably such a person sat for it."

Is it worth buying, should you say ? "
inquired Mr. Chesham, amiably.

That depends on your own taste, you
know. I would not care for it ; but, then, I
am a heretic. What does Mademoiselle
Moore think ? It is more in her way than
mine — nest-ce pas, mademoiselle ? "

I can hardly give a fair opinion, as
the picture happens to be my own," said
Mabel, coldly.

Barthelemy was really disconcerted. It
had never entered his head that the picture

VOL. II. 30

could be Mabel's. He hastened to say-earnestly
—

Mademoiselle, I most sincerely beg
your pardon "

Oh never mind, Barthelemy," interrupted
Mr. Chesham. " A frank and
unblessed opinion is worth a hundred
flatteries."

Mabel was pale now, and felt almost
inclined to cry. She would have runaway,
if she had not been ashamed.

Mr. Baring praised it immensely, and
said it was sure to get into the Academy,"
said Mrs. Chesham in her gentle voice,
with a reproachful look at the culprit.

Mr. Baring ? Saint Stephen ? " laughed
Barthelemy. " Ah yes ; he probably took
the Antigone for a virgin martyr making
her confession of faith."

When Monsieur Barthelemy and Mr.

Chesham have quite done amusing themselves,
mother," said Mabel in a white heat
of anger, "perhaps I may ring for Matthews
to help me carry the picture downstairs."

Oh, mademoiselle, permit me," cried
Barthelemy, starting forward.

But Mabel said, " No, thank you ; I can
manage."

Come along, Barthelemy ; you and I
will go and have a smoke downstairs,"
said Mr. Chesham, whom this little scene
had vastly entertained. '

Barthelemy, glad of a chance of escape,
followed him down, and Mabel and her
mother were left alone.

My poor Mab ! Never mind, darling ;
Mr. Baring knows better than Monsieur
Barthelemy," said Mrs. Chesham, soothingly.


What do I care ! " answered Mabel.

You don't suppose that anything that
man said could annoy me ? "

It ought not to, but still it was very
disagreeable."

It was very awkward for him ! " said
Mabel, with a laugh in which some real
amusement appeared. " It was too bad of
Mr. Chesham."

"It was not wise of George," Mrs.
Chesham admitted.

Not wise ? It was very mean. It was
just like him."

Oh, Mabel ! "

Well, never mind, mother ; I won't say
any more. But, you know, it was just like
him. If Monsieur Barthelemy had known
that was my picture, he would have been
sure to say lots of things even worse than
those he did say, only wrapped up in that
nasty sneaking politeness of his. My poor

Antigone ! And even if she is tame, she is
nicer to look at than his ridiculous Wind,
which is exactly like a cherub with the
toothache. Come along, Antigone ; we
won't mind what he says. No one ever
thought you were perfect, but you shan't
stay here to listen to rude and ignorant
remarks."

When Monsieur Barthelemy reached his
lodgings that night, his first act was to sit
down on the side of his bed, and laugh
long and loudly. ^

I ought to be ashamed of myself," he
murmured, " but I can t help it. How
angry Ma'mselle Demon was ! Her classical
protest against poor Hubert's magic-lantern
slides to be so derided to her face ! Pauvre
petite ! How cross Hubert would be with
me ! Well, I shan't say anything about it
in my next letter."

A GOOD SUBSTITUTE.

Constance chose to go to bed as soon as
she had left the studio on the afternoon of
her attempt at escape. She did not feel
that she could face either her husband or
Mrs. Simes again that day. She did as
well as she could without Robson's help,
slipped into bed, and lay sobbing until she
fell asleep. Her husband came softly into
the room once, but finding her sleeping
quietly, went away without disturbing her.
The next morning, while Constance
was making awkward attempts to put up

her hair, which was long and thick, and
baffled all her efforts, her husband, who
had been up and hard at work for two
or three hours already, came in and uttered
a quite friendly " Good morning."

Connie had been prepared to be submissive
and humble, but as Stephen's manner
implied that he wished to be friendly, she
took the opportunity of showing that she
could be dignified, and replied in a stiff and
indifferent tone.

Baring came over, and sat down by the
dressing-table.

"What a lot of hair you have got,
Connie ! " he remarked. " And what a
mess you're making of it ! "

I have never been accustomed to
attend to it myself," returned Connie, coldly,
without the least shame at her helpless
condition.

No, poor little woman, nor you have.
We must see about getting a new maid for
you immediately."

Connie looked rather more gracious.
So Stephen was coming to his senses at
last!

You could let me have Robson back,"
she began, but her husband interrupted
her.

No, dear, I really couldn't. Do you
know, Connie, I never could bear that
woman. She always seemed to me to be
between you and myself. I think she
despised me because I am an artist."

What nonsense, Stephen ! "

Oh, but it isn't nonsense ! That kind
of person is so prejudiced. Well, but
about a new maid for you. How shall we

set about it ? "

I don't know," said Connie. " My aunt

never changed her maid, and I always had
Eobson."

Let me see," said Baring, reflectively,
slowly stroking his beard. " Doesn't one
advertise in the Times, or something of
that sort ? "

Perhaps. There always are lots of
advertisements for maids — or perhaps one
answers advertisements ? "

N — no ; I think it would be best to
advertise. Well then, dear, if you will
write out an advertisement, I will send it,
directly, and in a day or two we shall have
got what you want."

Constance could hardly understand the
sudden change that seemed to have come
over her husband. He was gentler than
she had ever seen him, and as affectionate
as in the first days of their honeymoon.
Always impressionable, she began to look

upon Robson's going away as a sort of
good omen, and to wonder whether her
faithful old nurse had really — unwittingly,
of course — prejudiced her against
Stephen, and made them get on badly
together.

The thought that it might have been so
helped greatly to reconcile her to Robson's
loss, and she even began to feel a
pleasurable excitement in the idea of
having a new maid.

The advertisement appeared in due
course, and Constance had hardly come
downstairs on that particular morning
when the first maid was announced to be
waiting in the hall.

Oh, Stephen," cried Connie, darting
into the studio, " there's a maid come !
Where shall I see her ? "

Anywhere you like, dear," said her
husband, turning round from his work.

Oh, dear ! I feel quite nervous 1 "

My dear child ! You don't mean that
you are frightened ? "

Well, you know, it is the first time in
my life I ever engaged a servant. I shan't
know what to say to them, and I'm sure
I shall take this one. I shall never have
the courage to tell her she won't do, if I
don't like her."

Perhaps," said Baring, going back to
his work — " perhaps you would rather
see them in here. I am a good judge of
faces, and I don't think I shall feel either
frightened or nervous."

"Oh, thank you; that will be much
more comfortable. Show her in here,
Martha."

A stout, middle-aged person was accordingly
shown in, whom Baring made very
short work of. One would have thought

that he had done nothing but engage
lady's-maids all his life.

There were a great many applicants.
The address was a good one, and sounded
likely to be " comfortable."

Constance grew very weary after she
had seen about a dozen women.

They are all so much alike," she said
plaintively, "and they've got such absurdly
short characters."

'' Wait a little," returned her husband,
cheerfully. " Perhaps we shall see someone
better soon."

About twelve o'clock came a lull, which
Connie hailed with joy.

Oh, I am so tired, Stephen ! " she
yawned. " Now, really I shall take the
next one that comes, whether I like her
or not."

Impatient child ! " answered Baring,

looking at Lis watch. " One or two of
those we have seen were not at all bad.
That fair-haired girl, for instance."

Too young," said Constance, decisively.
I want some one more about Robson's
age. It's more convenient."

At this moment Martha ushered in a
new arrival, and Constance, with a quite
audible groan, raised herself from her
lounging position.

The new-comer was a woman of about
forty. She was tall, and held herself well.
Her features were worn and somewhat
haggard, but Constance instantly decided
that she must have been very good-looking
in her youth. She had dark eyes, sunken
in her head, and particularly thick, black
eyebrows. She was neatly but well
dressed in black, and had an air certainly
superior to that of any of the applicants

whom Connie had as yet seen. She walked
up the long studio to where Connie was
sitting, passing Mr. Baring at his easel on
the way. Her eyes took in the artist's
figure and the canvas he was working at
with one swift keen glance ; then she
stopped opposite Constance, and waited for
her to speak with perfect self-possession.

'* Have you been out as lady's-maid
before ? " asked Constance, who was beginning
to flatter herself that she was
quite clever at questioning now.

Yes, ma'am, all my life, more or less,"
answered the woman, in an accent the
refinement of which struck Constance at
once.

The maid was standing so that Mr.
Baring could see her face very well. He
had stopped painting, and was looking
scrutinizingly at her, as he had done at

all the others. After a moment his eye
wandered past her to the wall on her right
hand, against which hung a number of
studies of heads, all more or less finished.
He seemed to be looking at one in particular
— the head of a girl of about twenty-four
or so ; a striking face, with large,
wistful eyes surmounted by thick, dark
eyebrows, a rosy, smiling mouth, and a
peculiarly delicate and perfect outline. He
was listening attentively to his wife's questions
and the maid's answers, while his
gaze travelled several times from the girl's
head on the wall to the middle-aged
woman's face in front of it.

Presently Connie gave him an interrogative
look. He made a sideways motion
of his head, intended to express qualified
approval, at which Connie nodded vehemently
back.

Where did you say you had been
last?" she asked.

With Lady Somers, ma'am. I was
there for six years before my mother's
health failed, and I left service to go and
nurse her. She died a few months ago,
and I cannot afford to remain idle any
longer."

Lady Somers will give you a character,
I suppose ? "

Oh yes, ma'am ; her ladyship promised
to recommend me highly. I was very
sorry to leave her, for it was the best place
I ever had."

Will you give me Lady Somers's
address ? "

Yes, ma'am. Graveleigh Hall, near
Norwich. The letter will be forwarded, asher
ladyship is travelling — in Russia, I
think."

Oh, but," said Connie, " I don't want
to wait so long. I am in a great hurry."

The woman hesitated for a moment.

Well, ma'am," she said, " I would much
rather you got my character in the ordinary
way from Lady Somers, as it's always
so much more satisfactory ; but if you
really think I should suit you, and you
cannot wait, I could get a letter from the
clergyman of my mother's parish, who has
known us for years, if you thought that
would be sufficient. "

Oh, quite, I should think," Connie said
eagerly. " What do you say, Stephen ?
I am in such a hurry, you know."

The woman turned half round, and
looked deferentially at the artist. Baring
scanned her from head to foot, and then
answered leisurely —

I almost think that might do. .

II. 31

sides, dear, you know you could write to
Lady Somers all the same, though you
needn't wait for her answer."

Yes, to be sure, so I could. Well,
then, if you will get me this letter from
your vicar, I will engage you. What is
your name ? "

*^ Mary Reid, ma'am."

^^ Reid. Very well, then."

It was arranged that Reid should enter
upon her duties in two days' time ; and,
having promised to bring the vicar's letter
as soon as she could get it, Constance's
new maid departed.

I'm sure she'll do splendidly ! " said
Constance, enthusiastically, directly the
door had closed upon Mary Reid. " Don't
you like her face and her manner of
speaking, Stephen ? "

Ye — es," answered Baring, cautiously,

I think she looks fairly promising. Ita
pity, though, that you can't get her
character direct from Lady Somers. I
hope it's all right."

Oh, of course it is ! Don't you remember,
she didn't want to come before I had
heard from Lady Somers. It was I who
pressed her."

True ; but still Well, we shall see

what the parson says."

I'm sure it'll be all right. Oh, I shall
be so glad to have some one to attend tome
again, I feel so forlorn when I'm
dressing. By the way, Stephen, Mabel's
coming up this afternoon. You haven't
forgotten that, have you ? "

Miss Moore ? To tell the truth," said
Baring, looking closely at his work, " I
had forgotten it. So she is. Well, you'll
be able to tell her that I am not quite such

a brute as you wanted to make out the last
time you saw her."

Constance got red, and fidgeted with her
watch-chain. She did so wish she hadn't
gone near Mabel that day.

Mabel appeared in due course, and sat
as usual for the artist until tea-time, when
Connie acquainted her with her change of
maids.

Robson gone ! " said Mabel, surprised.
*^ Oh, poor Robson ! Where has she gone
to, Connie ? "

I don't know, Mabel. She said she
would never go far away — that she would
always stay near me ; but she never said
where she was going, and I stupidly forgot
to ask her."

Mabel smiled. It was so like Connie to
have forgotten to ask her.

But of course she'll write to me," continued

Connie, whose own conscience perhaps
reproached her a little; and then,
anxious to change the subject — "What
do you think, Mabel ? Stephen is obliged
to go to Paris next week about some
engraving business — I don't exactly understand
what, and he says I may go
too."

Dear me ! " said Mabel. She had been
perfectly astounded at the evidently
amicable terms on which she had found
the artist and his late runaway wife.

Yes, won't it be lovely ? While he is
doing his business, I shall go about and
shop — he's sure to let me have some
money. You can't think how much nicer
he is now poor Robson's gone. Of course,
when we were in Paris before, it was very
dull for me ; but, then, that was our honeymoon,
so we had to pretend to want to

stay together all the time. But now it'll
be very much jollier."

It will be great fun for you," said
Mabel, wishing, as every girl does when
she hears of Paris, that she were going too.
Won't it ? I shall write to you and
tell you all about everything, and just
what people are wearing."

*' Thank you," said Mabel, perfectly
aware that Connie would never put pen to
paper all the time she was away.

Mary Reid brought the letter from her

clergyman the following morning. It

spoke in very high terms of the bearer,

and was eminently satisfactory in every

way. Constance was triumphant, and

begged off having to write to Lady Somers.

Surely this letter's quite enough ? " she

said. " And it looks so horridly suspicious

to want anything more."

Just as you like, lazy girl," responded
her husband, with a shrug of the shoulders.
If you are satisfied, I am."

So Mary Reid was engaged, and came
at the time appointed. She acquitted herself
from the first evening entirely to her
young mistress's satisfaction, being evidently
thoroughly conversant with her
duties. Connie was delighted with her,
and even caught herself reflecting that,
after all, perhaps it was just as well that
Robson should have gone. She certainly
was a little old-fashioned, and had a habit
of treating her rather too much as if she
were still a child. And then, it was no
use denying that Constance's relations
with her husband had very greatly improved
since Robson's dismissal. Mr.
Baring himself was continually ascribing
this to Robson's absence, and really Connie

had almost come to think the same. She
would always love Robson, of course, and
would never forget how good and faithful
she had been ; but still, all things considered,
she did not regret her departure.

Reid got on admirably with Mrs. Simes,
too. That lady had deigned to approve of
her, perhaps at a hint from her nephew.
There was no lack of bedroom candles now,
and no stories of the housekeeper's meanness
and miserly ways.

Poor Robson, pining for her darling in
her lodgings, little thought how quickly
the gap in that darling's shallow heart had
been filled up. Perhaps it was better she
could not know, or her own faithful heart
might have ached even more bitterly than
it did already.

ENTRAPPED.

Mr. and Mrs. Baring, accompanied by the
latter's new maid, set out for Paris the
following week. Connie took a most affectionate
farewell of Mabel, promising to
bring her back sundry pairs of gloves, and
a full and particular account of all the
latest fashions in dress and head-gear.

Her husband's kindness had restored
Connie's good looks as if by magic. Her
hair, carefully tended by Reid, glittered as
of yore ; her sapphire eyes danced and
shone, her cheeks glowed with health,

and the old smile had returned to the lips
that had been so drawn and sad-looking
only a few days before. Mabel thought
she had never seen her look so pretty as
on the afternoon she bade her good-bye.
Connie was in her bedroom, pretending to
help, but in reality hindering, her maid in
her work.

*' Now, Eeid, don't forget the opera-glass.
Mr. Baring has promised to take
me to the play this time, and I should be
nowhere without an opera-glass."

I won't forget it, ma'am," said Reid,
who never lost her patience, or altered her
quiet, pleasant manner.

That's right. And oh ! mind you
pack my large white fan ! "

Yes, ma'am."

Mabel, which would you take — this
bonnet, or this one ? " asked Connie,

balancing the two articles in question on
her two pretty little fists.

Put them on, and let me see."

Connie put one on, and turned herself
round and round, with the gravest of
faces.

Now the other. Oh, I should take the
white one ; it is much the more becoming."

I wonder where Hubert is ? " said
Connie, reflectively, when she had handed
over the white bonnet to Reid.

"He is in Barcelona," said Mabel, slightly
flushing.

How c?oyou know? " exclaimed Connie,
opening her eyes very widely. '' Does he
write to you ? He never does to me."

No ; of course not. I heard Monsieur
Barthelemy say so to papa the other
day."

Hem ! I half hoped he might be in

Paris, and that we might come across him
there. But if he's in — where did you
say ?

Barcelona."

'* — Barcelona, there's not much chance,
I'm afraid."

I should hardly think so."

Do you often see Monsieur Barthelemy,
Mab?"

Yes ; much more often than I like,"
answered Mabel, frowning. " He's continually
coming to see Mr. Chesham."

Perhaps he's in love with you," suggested
Constance.

"That he certainly is not. You've no
idea how disagreeable he is to me. I
believe he dislikes me very much."

Well, don't go and marry a Frenchman,
dear. It would be so horrid."

*' At all events, I can promise you that I

will not marry that particular Frenchman,"
said Mabel, with a laugh.

The artist and his wife reached Paris
safely, and put up at the Grand Hotel.
Constance found her maid even more
valuable than she had expected. Not only
was she perfectly familiar with Paris,
knowing exactly to which shops to go,
but, to Connie's delight, Paid could speak
French very fairly well, even better than
Connie, who had had a Parisian governess
for years. Mr. Baring was able to transact
his business, leaving his wife in perfect
safety and contentment in her maid's
charge. He gave Connie a moderate sum
of money, which he begged her not to
spend foolishly ; and Constance was so
well pleased with her husband just then,
that she really faithfully attempted to obey
this injunction.

The days slipped quickly by. Mr.
Baring devoted his afternoons and evenings
to his wife ; drove her in the Bois ;
took her to dine at the best restaurants,
and to all the theatres she wanted to
go to.

Constance enjoyed herself hugely, and
regretted Robson less and less every day.
Of course she forgot her promise of writing
to Mabel, but she bought her friend several
pretty and exceedingly useless nick-nacks,
which she thought would do quite as well
as a letter, and which were no trouble to
get.

The day of return came all too soon ;
she would have liked to stay in Paris forever.
The idea of Mrs. Simes and her
eternal sermons on household economy
made her shudder. She had, however,
elaborated a plan in her little golden head.

which she meant to carry into effect as
soon as possible. This was, to profit by
Stephen's new-born kindness and generosity
to persuade him to let Mrs. Simes
carry herself and her virtues elsewhere,
and to allow Reid to have the housekeeping
in her charge. She thought it not
unlikely that her husband would yield to
judicious and well-timed pressure. He
must see how very clever Reid was,
although, for some reason or other, he
seemed never to have been able to take
to her, and was always finding fault with
everything she did. Once Connie had
gone abruptly into the dressing-room,
which opened out of her bedroom at the
hotel, and had found her husband standing
in the middle of the room, with Reid close
to him. Just as she came in, Reid said —
I think the button's all right now,

sir ; " and Mr. Baring had said testily, after
the maid had gone away with her usual
noiseless step —

That woman of yours is the most useless
creature I ever met with, Connie. I
asked her to sew a button on my shirt-cuff,
and you should just have seen the
mess she made of it. If she attends to
you in the same manner, I wonder you can
stand her ! "

Poor Stephen ! He was so very impatient.


Reid had packed everything ; the hotel
bill was paid; Connie had her bonnet on,
and was only waiting for Stephen, when
he came hurriedly into the bedroom, and
said, with a very vexed expression —

The most tiresome thing ! Here,
where's your luggage ? "

"It's all gone downstairs, Stephen, and

we ought to start at once, if we want to
catch our train. What's so tiresome ? "

*' Why, I just ran across that stupid
Beaumont — you know the man I mean.
He's come over with Gordon, and it seems
they have made up a party to dine at the
Cafe Anglais to-night, and counted on me,
knowing I was here. I don't exactly see
how to get out of it, for several reasons.
Was there ever anything so provoking ! "

But what are we to do ? "

'' I think you'd better get up your things
again, and stay here until tomorrow
morning. It won't make much difference,
and we can telegraph home."

All right," said Connie. " Reid, just
run down and tell them to bring up our
luggage again."

Reid departed, but returned in a few-minutes
with a very long face.

YOL. II. 32

If you please, ma'am, they've sent your
things with the other luggage to the
station already, in the cart that takes
every one's luggage."

How stupid ! " said Connie, crossly.
What are we to do now, Stephen ? Send
after it ? "

Baring reflected for a moment. Then
he said —

Look here, dear ; the best thing you
can do is just to go home with Eeid. It's
not worth the trouble of bringing the
things back here, and unpacking them all
again. You will get home comfortably
to-night, and I shall be with you tomorrow."


Connie looked doleful, but the plan
nevertheless recommended itself to her.
She was always unwell at sea, and hated
to travel in a smoking carriage. By going

with Reid she would avoid the latter, and
could make herself comfortable on the boat
without feeling that she was deserting her
husband. She therefore allowed herself to
be persuaded ; and Mr. Baring gave Reid
the necessary funds, and a great many
injunctions which she was to be sure to
observe.

'' Good-bye till tomorrow, Stephen,"
then said Connie, holding up her pretty
face to be kissed.



*' Good-bye, Constance."

Have you caught cold, dear ? Your
voice sounds so husky."

No, not in the least, thanks," Mr.
Baring answered, with a little nervous
laugh.

Sure ? "

*' Quite sure."

Well, good-bye — au revoir. Take care
of yourself."

She was gone.

Good-bye," muttered Baring, as he
watched the carriage drive off on its way
to the station. " Good-bye, Constance."

The journey seemed long and tedious to
Connie. She had not the gift of observation,
which is sufficient in itself to keep its
possessor amused and interested. If there
was nobody to talk to her, she felt bored
and lonely, as she did now. She tried to
get up a conversation with Reid, but her
maid said she had a toothache, and only
answered in monosyllables until Connie
gave it up in despair. She sat staring
out of the window, looking at the swiftly
passing landscape with unseeing eyes.
She was very sorry indeed to leave Paris,
where she had been so happy and so free.
She wondered if Stephen would go on

being kind and nice to her, or whether he
would relapse into the old absorbed, silent
ways. Would he, as he had promised, let
her have an allowance, and did he really
intend to furnish the drawing-room ? He
had said, something, too, about her going
out more during the approaching season.
If he only would not draw back, how she
could enjoy herself! And if he would send
away Mrs. Simes, and let Reid rule in her
place, how comfortable that would be !

With thoughts such as these, Connie*
occupied herself until the train reached
Calais ; and, after a hurried meal at the
station restaurant, they went on board the
boat. There were not nearly so many
people crossing this way as there had been
from Dover to Calais a few days before,
but still Reid objected, when her mistress
proposed going down to the ladies' cabin,

that it would be crowded and uncomfortable.


Far better to stay up on deck, ma'am,"
she said. ^' You'll run less chance of feeling
ill, and it's such a lovely, warm
evening."

Connie yielded, and her maid tucked her
up in rugs and shawls in a sheltered
corner, where she was secure from observation
and from the gentle breeze which was
stirring.

Reid herself sat down at a little distance,
near enough to mount guard over her
mistress, but far enough off to make it
impossible for Connie to talk to her, which
no doubt she dreaded on account of her
aching jaws.

They reached Dover in due course. The
light was fast fading, and in another hour's
time it was practically dark. Connie was

tired, and dozed most of the way, waking
up at Heme Hill, and asking rather fretfully
if it were not London " at last."

Mary Reid's tooth appeared to be giving
her a good deal of pain. She moved about
restlessly, kept frowning and wiping her
face with her handkerchief. She was a
very self-controlled person, however, and
had not lived to her time of life without
knowing that a lady's-maid has no license
for aches of any sort ; so she kept her agony
to herself, and was as alert as ever when
they at length reached the terminus. She
got Connie into a four-wheeled cab, and
the portmanteaux through the customhouse
in her own capable manner, and after
telling the cabman where to go, she got in
herself, and sat down opposite her mistress.

Connie was still drowsy, and after the
first minute or two, during which she

looked out of the window, to make comparisons
between the streets of Paris and
of London — unfavourable, of course, to the
latter — she leaned back in her corner and
closed her eyes.

It was quite dark now in the more quiet
streets. Every now and then they passed
either a street lamp with double jets, or a
public-house brilliantly lighted up. When
the light fell upon Connie's face, Reid
always bent forward a little, and looked
anxiously at her. Connie never opened
her eyes. The drive was a somewhat long
one, but the cab at last came to a standstill.


Are we home ? " said Connie, roused
by the stoppage, and sitting up.

Reid cleared her throat.

If you please, ma'am," she said, " Mr.
Baring gave me a note which I was to

leave here on our way home. It's about
a model who's to come tomorrow, I believe."


'' How tiresome ! " Connie said fretfully.
As if he couldn't have sent it by post.
Well, jump out and leave it."

Reid got out of the cab, and rang the
bell of the house before which they had
stopped. It was a small house, standing
by itself in a garden. A girl opened the
door after an interval, and held a short
colloquy with Reid. Connie leaned back
again, and shut her eyes. She thought
it exceedingly inconsiderate of Stephen
to have delayed her like this.

Reid came down the pathway after
having delivered her note, and spoke to
the cabman, who climbed down from his
box, and got the portmanteaux from the
roof of his vehicle. Connie opened her

eyes at the noise, and when she saw what
was going on, called to her maid —

What are you doing, Eeid ? "

Reid came up to the window of the cab,
put her head inside, and said, almost in a
whisper —

Hush, ma'am ; don't take any notice.
The man's as drunk as he can be. I was
afraid of it from the first. We had better
change cabs. If you'll get out here, we'll
send for one ; only don't speak to the man,
because he's certain to be impudent."

How horrid ! " said Connie. " Quick !
Let me get out."

She descended with alacrity, and stood
on the pavement.

*' Shall I take them bags inside, mum ? "
asked the man in the hoarse, gruff tone
common to cabman in general, and to
drivers of four-wheelers in particular.

No, thank you," said Eeid, seizing the
two portmanteaux and depositing them
just inside the garden gate. " Pretend to
go inside," she whispered to Connie, who
accordingly went up the narrow path.

The man got on his box, pulled his
waterproof cape straight, growled out
something which might be intended fora
" Good night," whipped up his horse,
and departed.

How are we to get a cab here, in this
lonely road ? " asked Connie.

We've not come out of our way,
ma'am," Reid said cheerfully. " There's
a rank just at the end of this road ; I'll
run and get a cab in a minute. Only,"
she added, bethinking herself, "you mustn't
stay out here by yourself. Suppose you
just go inside for a moment. It looks nice
and clean."

The girl who had opened the door, and
who had been holding it all this time,
while she stared out at what was passing,
said directly —

Yes, pray come inside, madam."

Connie, nothing loath, entered the hall,
lighted by a candle which the girl had
apparently brought downstairs with her.
She sat down on a cane chair which, with
a narrow mahogany table, formed the only
furniture of the passage.

Reid carried the luggage inside, and set
it down.

*^ That's right. You can shut the door
now, Jessie," she said coolly.

Jessie closed the door, turned the key,
and shot the bolts.

"What does this mean?" said Connie.
I thought you were going for a cab,
Reid ? "

Not just now, my dear," returned Reid.
She had, as by magic, thrown off her maid's
respectful, demure manner. Her very features
seemed to have changed. It was a
pale, determined woman who stood before
Connie now.

Connie, with her blue eyes opened to
their widest extent, and their pupils dilated
with alarm, raised both her hands, and her
lips had parted to give vent to a scream,
when she found one of her maid's hands
pressed tightly over them. At the same
time the candle was blown out, and they
were left in utter darkness.

No one spoke for a few moments.
Connie's heart beat as if it would suffocate
her. She strained her lips against the
restraining hand at her mouth — such a
hard, strong hand it felt. She heard the
breathing of the two women beside her.

and fancied that Eeid was moving her
other hand towards her. Was she going
to murder her ? If only she could see !
Anything, even the sight of a knife, would
be better than this awful, cruel darkness.

It was only a minute or two, but to
Connie it seemed ages. When Reid spoke
she started violently.

Will you promise not to scream or call
out if I let you go ? Nod your head if
you will. If you should break your
promise it will be the worse for you."

Connie made a motion of her head, and
the hand was at once taken away. She
drew a long breath.

Now listen," went on the maid in the
same cold, clear tone. " I have brought
you here for your own good. I don't
mean to do you any harm ; on the contrary,
I want to save you. But I don't

intend to get myself into trouble, and if
you don't keep quiet and do as I tell you,
I shall get into trouble. So now, will you
be quiet, and let me do as I think right ? "

'' I — I — can't understand what it all
means," faltered Connie. She was terribly
frightened. The obscurity, the silent girl
on one side of her, and this new, altered
Eeid on the other, were all so fearful. If
only they would light the candle again !
But Reid had not studied Constance for
nothing; she knew very well what she
was about.

Of course you can't ; but you shall
presently."

"Mr. Baring will be very angry with
you," said poor Connie, with one last
attempt at dignity.

Reid laughed scornfully.

Yes, I dare say he would, but not for

the reason you think. He won't know
anything about it, though. Now, you
just listen to me, and I'll tell you what
this precious husband of yours has tried
to do. He wants to get rid of you for
some reason or other — what", I don't know.
That was why he sent away your old
maid. His plan is to get you put away
in one of those awful lunatic asylums,
where they take any one whose friends
can pay and ask no questions. You must
have read about them, ma'am, I'm sure.
Places where they beat you, and starve
you, and almost kill you by ill treatment."


Connie shuddered ; her teeth were beginning
to chatter. Reid gave a grim
smile under cover of the darkness.

Once in a place like that, and there's
no hope for you. You might as well be

dead already, for there's no one to listen
and no one to help. If you say you're not
mad, that's taken as a certain proof of your
madness. There's no help — no hope."

The woman paused for an instant,
during which her last words burned
themselves indelibly into Connie's brain —

No help — no hope ! "

"Well," Reid continued, "Mr. Baring
has been trying to persuade me, ever since
I came to you, that you were really mad.
He hinted at it the very first day. He •
thinks me more of a fool than I am,
though, and I've done my best to make
him think so. I pretended to believe him,
although of course I know you're not a
bit mad ; and I let him talk and talk, until
at last he thought he could get me to do ashe
wished. He bribed me heavily to take
you over, and put you ia an asylum not far

VOL. II. 33

from London, where they would keep you
safe enough".

To Connie, absolutely ignorant of lunacy
laws and doctor's certificates, this all
seemed perfectly feasible and likely. She
made no movement, and Reid went on —

I took his money, because he would
have suspected me if I'd refused it; and,
besides, I shall have to keep you. I shall
tell him tomorrow that I got you in all
right, . and he'll never suspect anything.
I was to put you in as a relative of my
own, and he's to send me the money for
your keep at the asylum ; so that, as he'll
have no dealings with them himself, he'll
never be able to find out, so long as we
keep mum."

But — what is to become of me ? " said
Connie, low and huskily.

You must stay here with me and my

sister Jessie. It'll be a bit dull, no doubt,
but we'll do all we can for you, and,
anyhow, it's better than the madhouse.
Still, of course, ma'am, if you should prefer
to go there, you can do as you please.
IVe told you all about it now, and my
hands are clean of the business."

No — oh no ! " said Connie, with a
shiver. " I — I am very grateful to you.
It's very good of you. Only — don't you
think you could find Robson, and bring
her to me ? "

Well, we can see tomorrow," said
Reid ; and no one could have told from
her voice that she was again smiling
ironically. " We can talk tomorrow about
what's to be done. But for to-night, at
all events, you must stop quietly here.
And now, Jessie, light that candle."

The light flickered up again, and Eeid,

with a sharp glance at Constance's deathly
white cheeks and tremulous lips, threw
open the door just behind her, and invited
her to enter.

It was a small but neatly and not un-tastefully
furnished room. The table was
laid for one, and Constance presently found
herself, all dazed and bewildered as she
was, eating cold chicken and drinking
wine, under Eeid's directions. She felt
unaccountably heavy and drowsy when
she had finished ; her thoughts seemed to
be deadened, and she only wanted to lay
her head down and go to sleep. Reid,
who never took her eyes off her, apparently
perceived this, for she lost no time
in helping her upstairs into a bedroom as
neat and clean as the sitting-room below.
Here she put her to bed, waiting on her
as deftly and assiduously as was her

custom. Constance's head had no sooner
touched the pillow than she was asleep.
Reid made herself quite sure of this fact
before she left her. When she did so, she
turned the key in the lock outside, and put
it in her pocket.

She then descended the stairs and went
into the sitting-room, where Jessie was
just finishing laying the table afresh.

Miss Reid sank into a chair with a
groan.

That's a good thing over ! " she said. '
^* Drat the girl ! I was afraid she'd give
a lot more trouble ; but, as it is, it was
difficult enough. However, I don't think
there's much fear of her waking for the
next twelve hours or so. I gave her a
good dose."

How young she is ! " said Jessie, in a
low tone.

Young enough, little wretch — yes,
she's young enough," returned her sister,
gloomily.

*' And pretty, too," ventured Jessie,
half timidly.

That's as opinions go. Stephen's taste
must have altered. Look how fair she is.
But she had money — plenty of it. That's
where her charm came in."

What are you going to do with her ? "

Keep her here, of course. That's
what he pays me to do ; and I've made
him pay pretty heavily, too, I can tell
you, Jess. I dare say he'd have liked me
to murder her, but I wouldn't do that.
No. I may be bad, but I draw the line
at that. I hate the creature enough, too —
little simpering fool that she is — but I
wouldn't kill her."

'' Why does he want to get rid of her ?"

asked Jessie, presently, when Mary tied
seated herself at the table, and had taken
up her knife and fork.

He didn't tell me, nor I didn't ask
him," returned her sister, with a harsh
laugh. *' I suppose he wants to be up to
some more of his little games. But that's
nothing to do with me, nor with you
either. He's an old friend of mine, and he
pays well ; so I'm glad to do him a service,
so long as he don't want anything out of
the way." \

Will the lady keep quiet, do you
think?"

She'd better," said Miss Reid, with
an ominous tightening of her lips. *' I'm
ready to be kind, but I won't stand no
nonsense. Any one else might have
managed this little business a different
way — might have bullied her and cowed

her. That's not my idea. She shall have
good value for her husband's money, and as
comfortable a time as she likes of it, as
long as she chooses to see things the way
I want her to. If not "

"Perhaps she'll try to run away,"
suggested Jessie.

Mary turned upon her fiercely.

"You'd better not let her. She's in
your charge, remember, and if you play
me any tricks, or let her slip through your
fingers, out you go. If the neighbours
should catch sight of her, and get inquisitive,
you know what you've to say.
That she's a relation of our own, who's not
quite right in the head — lost her senses
from domestic trouble. But she must be
kept out of the way, mind. She's easy
enough to manage, for she's an awful little
fool. You only need to be firm, and to

keep on frightening her about the asylum,
;ind you'll find she won't give you much
trouble. She'll make up her mind to
things presently, and then we shall get on
straight enough. Now then, good night ;
I'm off to bed. If she should wake in the
morning before me and call, you fetch me.
I've got the key of her door in my pocket,
and her clothes are in my room."

A DISAPPOINTMENT.

Mabel's room was full of bright, tender
April sunshine. The sun was everywhere
on the untidy table, with its bowl full of
delicate spring blossoms, and its litter of
books, work, and sketches ; on MabeFs
canary, which was pouring forth its little
soul in shrill and joyous song as it swung
to and fro on the perch at the top of its
cage ; on the easel and on the clean white
canvas standing on it ; and lastly on Mabel
herself, as she sat in her favourite old
chair. Mabel was very fond of sunshine ;

she preferred her tablecloth and carpet to
lose all their colour to the alternative of
pulling down her blind, and remaining in
destructive but depressing gloom. This
April sun was just right, too — not too hot,
nor crudely glaring, but delightful in its
suave, kindly radiance, which seemed to
invite one to bask in it, and remember that
spring had come again.

Mabel had been very unhappy that long
winter. She had become so familiar with
the longing and aching pain at her heart
that she had almost ceased to hope for its
removal ; but as she sat in her studio this
bright, glorious spring morning, she felt
that there are degrees of suffering, and
light as well as shadow.

It was a great thing to have sent in a
picture to the Academy at last, and a
picture that had been so highly spoken of

])y MH Academician. Mabel entertained no
doubt of its acceptance after what Mr.
Baring had said. An eye so skilled and
so accustomed to judge could have made
no mistake. She had been expecting the
Academy letter for the last few days, waiting
in pleasurable hope that was almost
certainty.

She was taking a holiday to-day. It
was really too fine to work. She had
loitered aimlessly about the house, drawing
up the blinds and letting in the sunshine
everywhere, arranging and rearranging
flowers, watering plants ; in the end she
had come up here, meaning to paint; but
as soon as she had opened the door, her
good resolutions had fled, and she had
remained as lazy as she had been downstairs.


She was sure, quite sure ; still she did

wish the letter would come. It would be
such a triumph over that horrid, sneering
Barthelemy, who asked her every time he
came, which was very much too often, if
she had had news of her picture yet.

What a disagreeable man Barthelemy
was ! She was obliged to own to herself
that he was wonderfully amusing occasionally,
but he was frivolous and unsatisfactory,
not occasionally, but always. Of
course he could not be in the least worthy
of any one's respect, else " dear George "
would not have taken such a fancy to him.
Hubert had been taken in by his brilliance,
fascinated by his powers of conversation,
and doubtless by his flattery, but he could
surely never have had any real feeling of
affection for him.

Poor Hubert ! She wondered if he ever
regretted what he had done. Was he

sorry to have thrown aside the substance
for the shadow ? Would he forsake his
new and dangerous path, and return to the
old true way ? Would he

Her reflections were broken in upon at
this point by the entrance of the parlour-maid
with a letter for her.

Mabel sprang upon it. Was it — yes, it
was. At last !

The sun poured in as warmly and
cheerily as ever, the canary sang as loudly
as before, but Mabel sat with her face
hidden in her hands, leaning upon the
table, the letter lying before her as she had
cast it down after that first hurried glance.

Refused ! Her picture was refused !
Down clattered her castle in Spain, which
had already reached an almost giddy
height, and buried in its ruins sat Mabel.

The disappointment was all the more
severe because she had been so certain, so
complacently sure. She had not expected
her picture to be hung well ; she was ready
to have it skye, but not refused. How
had it come about ? Could there be any
mistake ? She seized the official-looking
document, and read it over again ; then let
it fall, and sadly shook her head. No,
there was no mistake. Her picture was
not accepted.

Her assurance of an hour ago seemed *
absurd, presumptuous to her now. She
mocked herself, calling herself uncomplimentary
names — conceited, arrogant,
vain ; she must have been all that to have
made so sure. But Mr. Baring's judgment ?
It was he who had first made her look
forward to success. Why had he praised
her picture so if it were worthless ? For,

with lier usual impetuosity, Mabel at once
leaped from one extreme to the other. If
the picture was not good enough for
the Academy, it was without merit of any
sort. Or was it true, as she had so often
heard, that the Academicians were really
not impartial judges, that very often a
new name had no chance with them,
that they reserved the Exhibition walls
for their own pictures and those of their
favourites ?

She wished that Mr. Baring were at
home, so that she might go to him and
ask him about it. She would trust his
word, and no one else's. She could have
trusted Hubert's word too, but Hubert was
far away. He had chosen to desert her.
Now, just at the very outset of both their
careers, when each might have so helped
and sustained the other, they were apart.

Disappointments like these shared would
lose half their bitterness.

Hubert had had to bear the same blow
under which she was suffering now, more
than once. For three or four years in
succession his pictures had been refused.
How well she remembered his dejection and
discouragement ! She had always sympathized
with and felt sorry for him, but,
at the same time, she had thought that he
took his rejection rather too much to heart.
Another twelve months to wait had seemed
so short, when she had looked at them
from a not disinterested, but still not
absolutely personal, point of view. Only
twelve months, and then he could try
again ! Her memory had always been
full of names to quote to him — names of
painters who had gone on year after year,
persevering bravely and undauntedly, until

YOL. II. 34

at last their courage had been crowned by
success. Hubert's sad smile and weary eyes
rose before her, as he would nod in acquiescent
response to each cited example. It had
been easy enough to be brave and hopeful
for him ; but now that the same trouble
had come to her, she found that in spite of
her wisdom, notwithstanding her boasted
philosophy, an arrow shot straight into
one's heart makes that heart bleed and
smart beyond the power of human sympathy
to heal.

It is part of the grim irony of Fate that
our worst wounds are those which we
must bear alone. No friend, however dear,
no soul, however akin to our own, can do
more than cross with us the shallow brooks
and streams of life. The deep and fast-flowing
river, the whirlpool in which we
lose our footing, the fathomless waters

which almost close over our heads — all
these, like the valley of the shadow of
death, we must go through alone. Though
our friend be near us with heart and
hand at our service, it avails but very
little. We cannot, even if we would, lay
bare the history of the long hours of
perplexity, and struggle with ourselves,
through which we have passed. If we
tried to tell our friend, whence should
we borrow language which would adequately
describe what we longed to express
? "I have suffered," is all that a
heart that has been truly wrung can say.
Our friend must understand, and be ready
with the salve of sympathy to try to cool
and heal our hurt ; he must comprehend
without being told, guess most where we
can describe least.

The circumstances of Mabel's life were

responsible for the fault which was most
apparent in her nature. She had, from
her childhood, been obliged to be so self-reliant,
so self-sufficient, to cultivate the
valuable quality of common sense to so
great a degree, that it had slightly, superficially,
frozen over that blessed gift of
sympathy, which is perhaps the most
precious with which a human being can
be endowed. Strong herself, resolutely
turning the humorous side of things
uppermost, she occasionally ran the risk
of seeming a little hard where other people
were concerned. Seeming only, for in
reality her heart was infinitely tender and
pitiful. But it is of no use to have a softheart
if one does not give others the
benefit of it ; and Mabel had, in her dread
of descending to sentimentality, forgotten
that sentiment, and plenty of it, is a very

good thing in its own way and in its
proper place.

The young, in the flush of strength,
serene in the inexperience which they take
for courage, sometimes deliver hard and
severe judgments which, in the mellowed
knowledge of later years, they would give
worlds to recall, when, alas 1 it is too late.
Which of us has not some precipitate
decision, some harsh and discouraging
dictum, some humorously rallying speech
to deplore, which, at the time, we complacently
thought showed our own sagacity
and superior good sense, but which,
in the years to come, will often recur tous,
presented in its true colours of obtuseness
and want of sympathy ? What an
array of blunders and errors will one day
arise and accuse us ! There can be no
turning away, no shutting one's eyes, no

use in saying, " I meant it for the best."
The consequences of such mistakes will
stare us piteously in the face ; there is no
escaping them. Happy he among us who
has erred on the side of self-distrust and
leniency. His weakness will at least have
recoiled on himself alone ; he will have
to reproach himself with no cruel thrusts
at tender and well-beloved, lonely and
yearning breasts — ill-considered, thoughtless
thrusts, which he would give his
heart's best blood to take back, but which
have long since vanished into the silent
and irrevocable past.

Mabel — large-hearted, generous, high-spirited
Mabel — had already created for
herself a goodly company of these vindictive
spectres. She was hard sometimes, in
the exuberance of her health and strength,
and she would be hard until her own

suffering had taught her the necessities of
others. Already, as she sat bewailing her
disappointment, she had given a softer
and more kindly thought to Hubert than
she had for many a long day. She had
thrust Hubert out of her heart with one
fierce push, because she had chosen to consider
him untrue to himself, as if it is
not just when we are inclined to be untrue
to ourselves that we stand most in
need of a friend's firm and loving hand.
Perfection needs no sympathy, no support;
it can tread its sublime heights without
communion with other and less favoured
minds. It is the weak and uncertain soul
which craves to feel that, unworthy, vacillating
though it may be, there is one spirit
at least on which it can lean for a while,
from which it can gain renewed strength
and courage to pursue its upward path.

Even now, she dimly realized that she
had been a little severe, a little hasty.
That missive from Burlington House had
made the first rent in the veil which had
hitherto obscured her vision, and from
which, when fully torn aside, would shine
out her real, true, womanly heart in all
its gracious perfectness.

She cried a little presently. Not only
on account of her picture, but because she
felt that, somehow or other, she had missed
her life. She had not arrived at that complete
consciousness of her mistake that
would, sooner or later, come to her, but
she did begin to understand that she had
made a mistake. An irretrievable one, it
appeared to her ; for although a girl may
send a man away, the unwritten laws of
maidenhood prevent her calling him back.
Hubert was gone, and she was alone forever.


BEREAVED.

Mr. Baring was at home again. After
his wife's sad and terribly sudden death
from cholera in Paris, he had felt himself
unable to face the London world again for
some time, and had betaken himself to
Italy, where he had travelled for two
months before coming back to his work.
He had let the Academy opening and the
Academy banquet pass by without him ;
he had had none of the critiques on his
own pictures sent to him ; in fact, he had

banished himself as completely as an inconsolable
husband should. Mrs. Simes
had enjoyed a glorious opportunity, of
which she had availed herself to the very
utmost extent, of turning the artist's house
inside out for a "spring cleaning" — a function
in which her very soul delighted, but
which, owing to Baring's presence, she
had never been able to indulge in properly
before.

This time, however, she determined that
the thing should be thoroughly well done.
She began by dismantling poor Connie's
room. Mrs. Simes had been a good deal
startled by the very unexpected news of
her nephew's loss, but she could not say
she was sorry. She had found out, in
the very early days of Baring's marriage,
that her first conception of Constance was
an altogether erroneous one. She had

always felt a sort of grudge against the
girl for not turning out what she herself
had chosen to consider her, and Constance's
behaviour had certainly never contributed
to soften this unkind feeling.

She had disliked and despised Mrs.
Simes ; she had sneered at her economy,
thwarted, as far as she could, her intentions
and arrangements, and had never
concealed that she considered the old
lady and all her doings infinitely beneath
herself. Only the recollection of her ■
fortune had made Constance bearable to
Mrs. Simes, and now that Constance was
gone, while the fortune remained, she felt
nothing but a sense of triumph. She
carefully obliterated every trace of her
nephew's young wife, exiling all Connie's
pretty things to her own bedroom, and
never resting until she had restored to

the other rooms their pristine bare and
inhospitable look.

As she trotted backwards and forwards,
duster in hand, she sometimes wondered
a little whether Stephen himself were
sorry. She had never been able to fathom
his heart with respect to his feeling for
his wife. Had he loved ber or bad he
not ? It seemed to her that he had always
been exceedingly kind to Connie — Mrs.
Simes's conception of kindness being a
purely negative one — but had he been
fond of her ? Would he miss her ? Well,
it was no use wondering. Whatever
Stephen had thought of his wife, he
would never tell his aunt anything about
it. What she could see for herself she
was welcome to know, but beyond that she
need not hope for information.

So the worthy lady dismissed the subject

from her mind together with the cook —
now an unnecessary luxury — and contented
herself with polishing furniture and scolding
the hapless Martha from sunny morn
till dewy eve.

She sighed to think of the accumulations
of dust and dirt there must be in the
studio ; her fingers tingled to besiege it
with duster and broom, but Baring's orders
were peremptory on the point. The furnace
that heated the hot-water pipes in the
room might be lighted, if she liked, so as
to keep off all damp ; but this was all. He
himself must be present before anything
further were done; so, tempting as was
the thought of the dust, she kept away
from it.

The house was resplendent with mottled
soap and soda, and as uncomfortably prim
as only Mrs. Simes could make it, when

the day which Mr. Baring had appointed
for his return arrived.

Mrs. Simes had so far made a concession
to the laws of etiquette as to provide
herself with a new black gown, sensibly
and conveniently short in the skirts. She
had always regarded Connie's trailing train
with lofty contempt, and, indeed, it would
have been rather out of place in Mrs.
Simes's well-beloved regions below.

She meant to be decorously sympathetic,
but, do what she would, there was an unmistakable
gleam of triumph in her hard
old eye as she stood in the hall to watch for
her nephew.

Mr. Baring himself, however, never even
glanced at her as he greeted her. He was
exactly the same as ever ; no graver — that
would have been difficult — no sadder-looking
than before. If people expected to see

any change in him they were mistaken.
Stephen Baring was not the man to wear
his heart on his sleeve.

He fell into the old routine directly.
Once more Mrs. Simes ruled supreme. No
meal was too frugal, too scanty, nor too ill
served ; no makeshift too sordid. Her
nephew accepted everything as before,
only leaving his studio for food, and
vouchsafing very few words, either good
or bad, while he was eating it.

For the first few months he hardly ever
went out of the house. He seemed to be
working very hard, and although Mrs.
Simes watched him closely, she could not
discern that he was grieving, or that he
felt lonely.

When six months had gone by, Mr.
Baring felt that the duty he owed to
conventionality had been paid. A widower

of six months' standing may be allowed to
make a morning call or two upon his late
wife's most intimate friends. Who so
capable of sympathizing with his loss, whoso
kindly lenient to his absorbing grief,
who so patient and consolatory, as those
who could comprehend to the full how
great that loss was ?

When Mabel came down the first time
to see the artist, she felt that she had no
words in which to express her sorrow.

Constance's death had been an exceedingly
great shock to her. Her friend had
been so bright, so specially full of life, the
last time she had seen her. Trouble and
pain had seemed so far off; the small clouds
which had swept across her horizon had
disappeared, leaving her all the more hopeful
and serene. Nothing but joy had been
in store for her ; and now — she was dead !

Connie and death ! The two ideas were so
dissimilar, it seemed impossible they should
ever come together. We see a gaily
coloured butterfly disporting itself in the
brilliant sunlight, darting here, there,
everywhere, gladdening our hearts by its
beauty and grace ; tomorrow that butterfly
will be lying dead, where it has fallen after
its race is run ; but who ever associates
death with a butterfly ? It is the very
emblem of gladsome, joyous life, and so
had Connie seemed to Mabel.

So pretty, so winsome, so light of heart !
That she had been light of brain also
appeared, in the reflection of that merciful
mirror which death holds up, but an insignificant
matter. Mabel could not console
herself with the remembrance of what
Connie had not been ; she mourned her for
what she had been.
VOL. II. 35

She recalled, with bitter self-reproach,
the last time but one that she had seen her
friend — Hubert's sister.

How cold, how quick to judge she had
been when poor Connie had flown to her
for help ! She did not doubt even now, for
her faith in Mr. Baring was still steady
and deep-rooted, that Constance had been
in the wrong ; but — she might have been
more gentle, more kind. Yes, Robson had
told her that some day she would be less
hard. That day had been swift to come.
With all her soul she regretted that she
had withheld her sympathy from Connie
that morning — the last time, if she had
only known it, that she would have the
opportunity of sympathizing with her.

It was with a heart full of self-rebuke
that she approached Mr. Baring, her poor
Connie's bereaved husband. Her eyes

filled with irrepressible tears as she shook
hands with him ; her look and her firm
hand-clasp told him what she could not
say.

Mrs. Chesham was already in the room,
and was wiping her eyes as Mabel came in.
She, too, had been dreadfully upset by the
sad news, for she had been really fond of
Constance in her tender, motherly way.

Mr. Baring broke a somewhat embarrassing
silence by asking Mabel —

*' And what is the news of your picture
? Is it sold yet ? I have not been
to the Academy, so I am absolutely
ignorant of everything."

Mabel flushed.

My picture is upstairs," she said, with
an attempt at a smile. " It was refused."

Refused ? " repeated Mr. Baring, really
surprised.

Yes."

Well," said the artist, ** I cannot
understand that. What incomprehensible
people they are ! It was so thoroughly
good when I saw it."

Mabel gave no answer.

Would you let me look at it again ? "
asked Baring, in the voice that seemed to
have become fuller and deeper than ever,
turning to look at her as he spoke.

'' Certainly, if you don't mind the
trouble."

Trouble ! " said Baring, in an undertone,
which nevertheless reached Mabel's
ears.

The picture was brought down, and
placed in the same position in which
it had been when Monsieur Barthelemy
made his unwelcome and ominous remarks.


Baring looked at it attentively. Then
he slightly shook his head.

You didn't finish it carefully enough,"
he said gravely ; " it is not as good as when
I saw it before."

I am afraid it is very bad," said Mabel,
despondently.

N — no, not very bad ; but you have
spoilt it. A pity, for it promised so well,
so very well. Never mind ; you must just
begin again."

He gave a pleasant little laugh and
a very kind smile as he spoke, but Mabel
answered —

I am afraid I've made a mistake in
thinking I could ever come to anything.
You were right, Mr. Baring, when you told
me that women's work was no good."

Can I ever have said that ? " said
Baring, raising his eyebrows. Then

glancing round to make sure that Mrs.
Chesham was far enough off, he murmured,
"You see, I didn't know you then.
Other women are so different."

Mabel looked a little displeased, but her
brow cleared instantly as the artist finished :

"That's what my poor Connie always
said of you."

"Dearest Connie!" said Mabel; and,
looking at Mr. Baring with her eyes again
filling with tears, she continued, " Mr.
Baring, I want to ask you a very great,
great favour."

Yes ? " said Baring, interrogatively.

It is so great a favour that I hardly
have the courage to ask it."

Anything I can do for my wife's
greatest friend shall be done."

I want " said Mabel, hesitating. " I

have no good photograph of Connie. She

took so badly, you know. All her prettiness
was lost in a photograph. I want
you — oh, I should be so grateful if you
would — just to make me a little — quite a
slight one — sketch of her head. You
have a portrait you could do it from, I
know."

Mr. Baring did not answer for a moment,
during which Mabel had quite sufficient
leisure to grow ashamed of herself for
proffering so bold a request. Then he said
slowly —

Certainly. I will make you a sketch,
with much pleasure." •

The day following his visit, Mr. Baring
set about fulfilling his promise.

He dragged out from behind a number
of canvases, where it lay hidden, the first
portrait he had made of his wife, long
ago.

He put it on an easel, and sat down in
front of it.

Had she really been as pretty as that ?
Had she such very deep blue eyes, and
such a tender, appealing little smile ?
Surely her eyes had never worn so wistful,
so pleading a look ? He had absolutely
made her seem as if she had been thinking
of something, whereas, as he very well
knew, she never thought of anything at
all. It was a good piece of work, though,
very good — all the better for being so
much idealized as it undoubtedly was.

He gazed at it coolly and unflinchingly.
It was so long since she had been — dead,
that he had almost forgotten the features
which love had never stamped upon his
brain. But now he remembered them
again. Yes. That was the hair which.

when unloosed, rippled past her waist ; no
July sky was ever more deeply, translucently
blue than those eyes ; that was
the delicately moulded little mouth which
never opened to say a sensible word ; there
was the " tip-tilted " nose that had been
wont to curl disdainfully at Mrs. Simes's
household arrangements. The sweet, somewhat
thin voice sounded in his ears with
its eternal burden of complaint, its fretful
Stephen, I must have this," or " I won't •
bear that."

How tired he had grown of it ! How
her very beauty had palled on him in its
soulless, unvarying fairness ! No thought
of pity, no twinge of conscience, disturbed
him in his contemplation. She had come
into his life, had got in his way, and he
had put her out of it. That was all. His

action was justified in his own eyes by his
will. Remorse, regrets, were for the weak;
he, Stephen Baring, was strong enough to
stand alone.

END OF VOL. II.

PRINTED BY WILLIAM CLOWES AND SONS, LIMITED,

LONDON AND Eccles. C, C ^ Co.

3 0112 045830020

.v

-' ' '■' */• Vv^7i;-».-.§ > ■.'■■•

» • il. ^■ki^-»*'i /.'Oft •' :

■ ■■ •*. ■. t .■■'•' ->'?.i-

v' ■ ' » I ' n^ i - ■ '

OF THE

University

or ILLINOIS

v."5

The person charging this material is responsible for
its return to the library from which it was withdrawn
on or before the Latest Date stamped below.

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books are reasons for disciplinary
action and may result in dismissal from the University.
To renew call Telephone Center, 333-8400

UNIVERSITY

URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

L161— O-1096

BY

HENRY Errol,

Author OF "AN UGLY DUCKLING.'

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. III.

LONDON:
RICHARD BENTLEY AND SON,

pufalisfjers in Orttnarg to p?cr ifflajcstg tfje quem.

1888.
(All rights reserved.)

CONTENTS OP VOL. III.

CHAPTER I.

"no help — NO HOPE."

"When Constance awoke the morning after
her journey from Paris, it was with difficulty
that she realized where she was.
The room was dark, for thick curtains
were drawn across the windows, shutting-out
even the remotest glimpse of daylight.
She was not certain that it was daylight.
Perhaps she had only been dreaming, and
was still in bed at the hotel. She stretched

VOL. III.



out her hand to feel if her husband were
beside her, but encountered only the
smooth, cold sheet. No, she was alone,
and — now it all began to come back to
her.

The journey ; the drive in the cab ; her
entrance into that little house ; the narrow
passage ; and that terrible hand on her
mouth in the dark. Eeid's clear, incisive
voice echoed in her ears ; she remembered
what her maid had told her ; she dimly
recollected sitting down at a table in a
small, half-lighted room ; the taste of the
wine she had drunk lingered still on her
palate ; beyond that everything was a
blank.

How she had come into this bedroom,
who had put her to bed, how long she
had slept, she knew not.

Her head felt uncomfortably hot and

heavy. She clasped both little hands on
her forehead, and tried to collect and
arrange her thoughts.

Eeid had told her — that she clearly
remembered — that Stephen had said she
was mad. Mad ! she mad ? What had
made him think her mad ?

She had surely never done anything
strange or eccentric, and all mad people
did do odd things ! There had been a
crazy woman in the village at Lay ton
Abbey, who was allowed to go about,
because she was harmless. There was no
doubt that Sally was mad. How often
Connie had seen her with a child's pinafore
on, and one finger in her mouth, leaning
bashfully up against the doorway of her
father's cottage, rubbing one ankle against
the other.

And one of Robson's innumerable cousins

was mad — a dangerous lunatic — shut up
in an asylum, and kept in a padded room
nearly all the year round.

Old Miss Cellars, too, who lived a few
miles from Lay ton Abbey, had always been
said to be out of her mind. Connie had
never seen her, but she had heard rumours
of her midnight wanderings in her park,
dressed as a man, and followed at a short
distance by two keepers, who never lost
sight of her.

All these had been mad, but they had
every one shown their insanity by most
visible outward signs. But she, Constance
what had she ever done that her own
husband should think her mad ? Ah !
She remembered now that Reid had said
he wanted to get rzc/ of her for some
reason or other. But what could be that
reason ? He had been so loving so attentive

of late ; had seemed to care for her
as he had never cared before ; it was not
possible that he could have been pretending.
Why should he want to get rid of
her? He had been so pleased with her.
Only yesterday morning he had called
her his '' dear little wife," and had kissed
her, which meant a great deal from him.
He could not have been all the time
treacherously wishing to free himself from
her. She could not bring herself to believe
that.

Connie's reasoning powers were not at
any time strong. She had been accustomed
from her birth to depend on others. Robson
had always thought and decided for
her. Now , in her perplexity, her first
wish was for Robson. With • her she
would be safe. And Mary Reid had half
promised to let her have Robson. Only,

where was her old nurse to he found ?
Very likely there was a letter from her
awaiting Connie at home, giving her
address. She had promised to watch over
her, and would not he likely to break that
promise.

Connie was just resolving to get up,
when the key turned in the lock, and
Mary Reid put her head into the room.

*' Who's there ? " asked Connie at once.

Oh, you are awake, ma'am ? " said
Reid, coming in and drawing the curtains.

The sun shone brightly into the room.
Constance looked about her curiously.

She did not feel nervous or afraid of
Reid. She was used to her, and the maid
having resumed her old manner, nothing-hut
the new room seemed strange.

I have been thinking, Eeid," she said,
turning her head towards where the woman

stood arranging the clothes she had brought
in with her, " and I want to talk to you.
Now, are you quite, quite sure that you
understood Mr. Baring rightly ? Don't
you think you may have been mistaken
as to his meaning ? It does not seem
possible that he could want to do what
you say, to me."

Oh, there's no mistake," Reid returned
with a toss of her head. " I've got my
brains as clear as anybody's, and I can
understand when folks speak to me. He
wants to get rid of you."

"But why?" persisted Connie, sitting
up in bed.

Reid shrugged her shoulders.

"Why? How should I know! He
didn't tell me that. Perhaps he wants

your money all to himself, or Oh, I

don't know ! "

Well," said Connie, " of course I can't
stay here without letting my friends know
where I am. I shall write to Miss Moore
at once, and ask her to come and take me
away."

Reid gave a short laugh.

My gracious, ma'am ! I declare you're
no better than a baby. Why, if Miss
Moore was to take you home, don't you
suppose the next thing would be as Mr.
Baring would hear of it, and then there'd
be a pretty to-do ! It's not so easy fora
wife to hide from her husband. Mr.
Baring can make you go where he likes,
remember, and no one can interfere. And,
besides," she added, "do you think Miss
Moore would be likely to interfere ? "

Connie's face fell.

"But, then, what am I to do ? I can't
o-et at Robson, because I don't know her

address, but she is sure to go to Miss
Moore for news of me. I think I will
risk it, and write."

No, you won't," said Reid, decidedly ;
and, with a step nearer the bed, she continued,
" You're in my house, and you
must just do as I tell you. You can't
write to none of your friends, nor to anyone
at all, and you can't go out, or let
yourself be seen. Presently, when this
has blown over, and I've been able to pre »
tend to Mr. Baring that I've done as he
wanted, we will see what can be done ; but
now you must not have anything to do
with outside, or I won't help you anymore."


But it's like being a prisoner ! " said
Connie, who was by this time crying fjxst.

Not so bad as if you was a real
prisoner behind those cruel madhouse

walls," said Reid, sententiously ; and,
sitting down beside Connie, she entertained
her for some time with a highly coloured
description of the horrors of an asylum,
drawing liberally on her imagination for
details.

Poor Connie blenched, and sobbed
bitterly. She was beginning to realize
what it meant now. She was cut oft'
from the whole world, as much as if she
were dead. There was no one but this
stranger, of whom, in spite of what she
had done for her, she now felt almost
afraid, to watch over her and care for her.
Hubert was far away ; Mabel was not to
be reached. What was she to do ? What
would become of her ? If she did not
keep good friends with Reid, the woman
would repent, and get her put into that
awful place, where she would soon go mad

in reality. Where could she turn for
help?

Eeid was eminently satisfied with the
success of her harangue. Connie's crying
terminated in an hysterical attack, after
which she was so exhausted that she
begged to remain in bed. Reid willingly
acquiesced ; and, after she had had a cup
of tea, Connie lay down, and tried to think
some more, which effort resulted in her
sinking off to sleep again.

Crying and sleeping were all she did
during the next two or three days. Whenever
she awoke she cried until she was
sleepy again. To this succeeded a period
of utter and complete apathy. She allowed
herself to be dressed, she ate a little of
whatever was put before her, but she
apparently took no notice of what was
going on around her ; she would sit for

hours looking straight in front of her with
lier dimmed blue eyes, neither stirring nor
answering when spoken to.

This state of affairs suited Reid very
well. She had dreaded violence, cries,
attempts at escape on her charge's part,
and was so relieved at her quiet behaviour
that any slight feeling of remorse — which,
after all, had only been the fear of being-found
out — quickly died away in her breast.
She attended to Connie's personal wants —
if at her own time and pleasure, still fairly
well ; she saw that Jessie always provided
good and well-cooked food, and that
her rooms were kept neat and clean. She
rather prided herself on her performance
of these duties, taking credit for doing so
much more than she need. Some people,
she knew, would have let Constance want
for everything, or would even have turned

her into a sort of drudge, reversing their
former position of servant and mistress.
But that was not her way. She had a
conscience of her own, thank the Lord, and
intended to act up to it. Mrs. Baring
should have good value for her money, as
she had told Jessie.

Miss Reid's sister was a medium-sized,
stout, freckled young woman, a good many
years younger than herself. Mary had
brought her up, and Jessie had implicit
faith in her sister's judgment, and an unbounded
confidence in her superiority and
cleverness. If Mary did really possess
a conscience, as she flattered herself, it was
probably bessie's property, for Mary was
to Jessie all that a conscience is usually
supposed to be to us. Jessie saw with
Mary's eyes, thought with Mary's mind,
felt with Mary's heart. She had led a

curiously secluded life, for the most part
alone in tins same little house with her
sister, doing the housework and cooking,
and helping Mary with the needlework
that was her ostensible occupation. Mary
had been an artist's model once, but that
was many years ago, and Jessie could only
dimly remember the fact.

She was familiar enough with Mr. Baring's
name, however. Mary was not reticent,
and Mary's sister had had no chance
of preserving her innocence of mind. She
knew pretty well what the relations between
her sister and the artist had been,
and she also knew that, although these had
been over long ago, Mary still retained
a very lively recollection of Mr. Baring,
and had never ceased to take an interest
in him, and to keep herself well posted in
all his doings.

Jessie had received her sister's instructions
as to Mrs. Baring's reception with
her accustomed stoHdity. She had not
been very well able to comprehend why
Mr. Baring should want to free himself
from this pretty, gentle girl — the first
lady with whom Jessie had ever come
into close contact. But that was none
of her business. If Mary was satisfied,
so was Jessie. One thing was very patent,
and that was, the increase of money in
the little household. They had not always
been flush of money ; there had been days
when the larder was very nearly empty,
v/hen the fire had to be extinguished as
soon as their frugal cooking was done,
when butcher's meat had been conspicuous
by its absence. But all that was changed
now. They lived well — not as well as
Mary would have liked, for she was

luxurious in her tastes — but they had to
be prudent on account of the neighbours.
Mary and Jessie both had a new stock
of clothes, and they took in their coals
by the ton — a height of grandeur which
had always seemed unattainable to Jessie.

All this made her look with a kindly
eye on Connie, who was indirectly the
cause of their altered fortunes. She was
sorry to see her mope so, and would have
tried to cheer her up, if she had had
more time ; but as Mary dared not keep
a servant, and did nothing herself, Jessie's
hands were pretty full.

One afternoon, however, when Mary
was going out, she ordered her sister to
leave her work and go and sit with
Mrs. Baring.

Nothing loath, Jessie obeyed. She got
some sewing, and entered Connie's sitting-room,

which was upstairs, at the back
of the house.

Constance was sitting in an armchair
on one side of the empty fireplace, with
the dull, heavy expression on her features
which was fast becoming habitual to them.
Her little hands lay listlessly in her lap.
Jessie noticed how small and white they
were, and fancied that they had become
thinner than when she had first seen
them. 9

Connie did not move for a few minutes ;
but when Jessie, who was burning to talk,
remarked that it was a fine day, she
looked up and said "' Yes " — her attention
perhaps roused by the strange voice.
She had never yet exchanged a word
with Jessie.

It is a fine day, ain't it now ? " repeated
Jessie, charmed with her success. She

VOL. HI. 37

knew that Constance had not opened her
mouth before that day.

Yes," Connie said once more. Her
eyes roved over Jessie's stout, ungainly
figure, looked questioningly at her ugly,
good-natured face, and then, the spark of
intelligence dying out again, she dropped
them, and sat as before.

The sun do come in here cheerful,"
was the girl's next original observation.

"Yes."

I wonder you sit over there, ma'am,
right out of the light. Won't you let me
push your chair a little more this way ? "

Connie got up and allowed her to move
the chair, then sat down again.

Don't you get dull or lonesome ? "
next inquired Jessie, feeling that she was
getting on capitally. " Wouldn't you care
for a book ? "

Constance shook her head. She clasped
her hands, and then let them fall apart
again. Jessie was trying to think of some
new remark, when Constance suddenly
leaned forward and looked full in her
face with eyes no longer dull, but feverishly
bright.

"Are you kind?" she asked, and it
was well that Robson was not there. She
would hardly have recognized her darling's
voice in those harsh, discordant
tones.

Jessie opened her mouth wide.

Kind ? Why, laws, yes, miss — I mean
ma'am, which you do look so young — of
course I am kind. Whatever do you ask
me that for ? "

Connie still kept her strained, fixed
gaze on the girl's face.

*' Could I trust you ? " she asked.

'' Trust me ? I should think so. What
do you want to trust me with ? "

Will you help me to get away from
here?"

She leaned back in her chair as she
spoke, but without moving her eyes from
Jessie's face.

Jessie shut her mouth with a snap.

Oh, that's what you're after, is it ?
Oh, dear me, no, ma'am ; I couldn't do
such a thing. It's as much as my life's
worth."

Connie drew a long, weary sigh. She
had not hoped for much. Still she thought
she would try again.

Well, if you won't help me to do that,
will you post a letter for me ? "

Better give it to Mary, ma'am," said
Jessie, curtly.

Mary ? Who's Mary ? "

Why, Mary, my sister — your maid as
was, ma'am."

Oh, you mean Reid. No, that would
be no use. I have asked her, but she
won't let me write."

Then you may be sure, ma'am, that it's
better you shouldn't. Mary's very wise,
she is, and wouldn't have said so if it wasn't
right."

But she doesn't know. She thinks my
friends wouldn't help me, and I can't make *
her understand. Do it for me, won't
you?

Jessie gave her head a very decided
shake.

No ; it's no use your skin'. I can't
do nothing that Mary has said she won't
have done."

Connie gave another heavy sigh and
closed her eyes. Jessie tried to get her to

talk about something else, but not another
word would Mrs. Baring utter.

It's precious hard work ! " Jessie said
to Mary that evening. " First she begged
me to help her to get out ; then to post a
letter for her ; and then she sits and stares
in front of her, till every drop of blood in
my body runs cold. I believe she is really
mad."

Fiddlestick ! " returned Mary. " She's
all right. I like her nice and quiet. She'll
cheer up presently, I dare say ; and if she
don't, there's no harm done. She can sit
in her chair and stare till her eyes drop
out, if she likes. It don't make any difference
to mer

MERELY ACQUAINTANCES.

Mabel had returned from a walk one afternoon,
and was going upstairs to take off
her things, when she heard voices in the
drawing-room as she passed the door.
Wondering who could be there, for she
had thought that Mrs. Chesham was at
her post of duty in the study downstairs,
she turned the handle and entered the
room.

The next instant she would have given
worlds not to have done so ; for, talking to

Mr. and Mrs. Chesham, and accompanied
by Victor Barthelemy, was Hubert.

The very last person she had expected
to see ! The shock was a great one. She
felt half inclined to turn and run away like
a child, but feeling that Barthelemy's eyes
were fixed upon her, she advanced and
shook hands with her old lover bravely
enough. Then she subsided into an armchair
in an ill-lighted corner of the room,
and began busily arranging some violets
she had brought in.

Hubert went on with the conversation
he had broken off to greet Mabel. He was
telling them about his adventures in Spain.

Mabel stole a furtive glance or two in
his direction, and by-and-by, when Bar-thereby's
back happened to be turned,
ventured to take a good look at him.

It was Hubert, but not the Hubert she

bad known. This was no shy, easily disconcerted
young man, looking out upon
the world with uncertain eyes, asking too
much at one moment and too little the
next ; timid in some things and over-bold
in others ; self-absorbed, sensitive, with
the hyper-delicacy of feeling that self-analysis
always brings.

This was a ma/z, every inch of him. He
seemed even to have grown taller ; he
certainly held himself straighter. His
dark-blue eyes had taken to themselves a
direct, calm look, as of one who will not
expect and beg of the world, but will command
and force by virtue of his own strong
will. The lines of his mouth were firmer
as well as sweeter ; the carriage of his head
bespoke energy and pride ; his very voice
had become deeper and fuller, and had an
unaccustomed ring in it.

Mabel wondered, as with her acute powers
of observation, she noted each distinct
change in him. He was different — altogether
different. And had he quite got
rid of the old Hubert ? He had shaken
hands, and had looked straight into her
eyes with the frank, courteous interest of
an old acquaintance ; nothing more, absolutely
nothing more. Well, what more
did she expect ? Did she think he would
have knelt at her feet and implored her to
rescind her cruel refusal ? She asked herself
whether she had expected this, and the
answer came in the negative. She had
lost her power over him by her own doing.
It was like the unreasonableness and inconsistency
of a woman that she should
think of feeling aggrieved because he had
taken his rejection like a man. It is only
the cur that whines after the tid-bit placed

beyond his reach. No ; there could be no
middle path either. They could never
again be on the old familiar terms of understanding
— she felt that strongly enough.
He would never again confide his plans, his
aspirations to her ; never again turn to her
for comfort, or be ready with his own unspoken
but clearly visible, sympathy for
her own trials. They could only be acquaintances
in the future, not even friends.
His friendship, his confidences, would be
reserved for that wretched Barthelemy.
Here the culprit in question received a
glance which must have penetrated even
his hardened spinal marrow, for he wheeled
round, and, bending on Mabel the half-ironical,
half-sarcastic look which never
failed to rouse her anger, exclaimed —

And your Antigone, mademoiselle ?
What have you done with it ? "

Nothing," said Mabel, furious at having
to answer.

*' Comment nothing ? Figure to yourself,
my dear friend," he went on, turning
to Hubert ; " mademoiselle paints a classical
subject, oh, in the purest and most elevated
style of high art — none of your clap-trap,
magic-lantern slide effects, but a noble,
majestic conception — and those barbarians
at Burlington House, those selfish, purblind
animals, go and reject it ! Yes, it is
actually true ! "

Come, come, Barthelemy," said Mr.
Chesham, softly rubbing his flaccid hands
together ;" you mustn't abuse our Academicians.
They are lenient, very lenient, I
have always understood, where talent is in
question."

Such a beautiful picture, my dear Hubert
! " sighed little Mrs. Chesham. '• Mr.

Baring had spoken in the highest terms
of it."

And yet it was refused ! " said Hubert.
'' Yes, it was refused," Mabel answered,
jumping up and coming forward, while her
eyes glanced scornfully from Barthe'lemy
to her step-father, and, without changing
their expression, to Hubert. " It was
refused. It was badly finished."

She threw her head back, and her expression
seemed to challenge further remark.

'* That must have been a great disappointment
for you," said Hubert, placidly.
Ah, but mademoiselle is a stoic," observed
Barthelemy. " She is very strong.
I have seen men, my dear Durant, grownup
men with beards, who made very
different faces at their rejection from the
Salon. Mademoiselle Moore is an ane
sorter

If looks could annihilate, there would
have been very little left of Barthelemy at
that moment. He did not, apparently,
notice Mabel's displeasure, but went on in
the most innocent of tones —

And she has a very pretty talent. Miss
Moore. Only I think, you know, mademoiselle,
that you have mistaken your
style. You are too severe, too eclectic. If
you were to condescend a little, now — to
paint something more human ! "

A sneeze, or a cough, for instance ! "
said Mabel. " As a pendant to your
Wind: "

Hubert laughed, a genuine, unaffected
laugh.

Well," returned Barthelemy, imperturbably,
" you might do worse even than
that."

No," said Mabel ; " that's too commonplace

for me. I am going in for the gruesome.
I shall paint a battle scene."

You couldn't do it, mademoiselle. Vermilion
is not all that is required. No, no ;
affect the innocent. A dove on a branch,
covered v^ith apple blossom. A sun-bonnet
and two laced boots, returning from school.
Or the entirely original, 'The Letter' — a
young lady sitting down, with her head
down, her two arms down, an open letter
thrown down on the floor. Sapristi !
there is a new, an excellent idea ! I have
half a mind to copyright it myself."

''I should, certainly," said Mabel.

Hubert had sat down, and was looking
on, quietly amused at the skirmish.

Mr. Chesham yawned audibly, then
elaborately begged pardon.

I think, love, that I will go to my own
room. My nerves have been somewhat

weak of late, Mr. Dm-ant ; you will excuse
me, I know. Barthelemy, come down with
me, there's a good fellow. There's something
decidedly odd about that effervescing
lozenge you brought me the other day. I
want you to look at it. I placed one in
my mouth, as directed, but, instead of effervescing,
it went off with a kind of explosion
! My heart palpitated so all the rest
of the day, that I was unfit for anything."


He walked out of the room, with his
stooping shoulders and expression of patient
suffering. Barthelemy rather unwillingly
followed.

'''• Poor George ! " sighed Mrs. Chesham.
He gets no better."

I thought him looking pretty well,"
said Hubert.

So he is ! " said Mabel. The words

were true enough, but they sounded impatient
and unkind.

Emily ! Emily ! " called Mr. Chesham
from below.

Let me go, mother ! " cried Mabel,
springing to the door. ** What is it, Mr.
Chesham ? "

I want your mother ! " replied her
step-father, testily. " Those confounded
maids have hidden all my things
again."

I'm coming, love, I'm coming," said
the little woman, breathlessly, already halfway
downstairs.

Mabel very reluctantly returned to the
drawing-room. To be left alone with
Hubert was just the very last thing she
had desired.

She sat down opposite him, with a
nervous laugh.
VOL. III. 38

Monsieur Barthelemy is severe on me,
you see."

Hubert smiled.

Yes. He is a funny, witty fellow,
isn't he ? As full of faults as a man can
well be, and as lovable as possible."

I have only been able to discover the
truth of the first part of your estimate of
him," said Mabel, dryly.

I dare say he shows you his faults with
a lavish hand. But I have reason to know
and to recognize his virtues. He nursed
me when I was ill, as tenderly as a woman —
more tenderly than perhaps some women
would have done. You should have seen
how good, how patient, how unselfish he
was. Nothing was ever too much for him
to do ; he was untiring."

Oh, I don't suppose he is wicked," said
Mabel, wilfully.

Hubert looked at her for a moment
without speaking. Then he asked —

Do soli ever see Mr. Baring now ? Does
he go out at all since poor Connie died ? "

*' Yes," answered Mabel, colouring. "He
comes here. I don't know if he goes anywhere
else. I — I think not. We are
expecting him this evening," she added,
glancing at the clock.

Here Mrs. Chesham bustled in.

"Mabel, have you seen those effervescing
lozenges of your father's ? I can't think
where they can have got to."

No, mother dear ; but I'll go and hunt
for them. You know I have lynx eyes.
Good-bye, Mr. Durant," offering Hubert
her hand.

"Good-bye ? Why?" said Mrs. Chesham.
My dear boy, you'll stay to dinner, of
course. Victor — I mean Monsieur Bar-thereby

— always does ; and Mr. Baring is
coming. We shall be quite a pleasant
little party. Not that I like Mr. Baring,
or ever did," she continued, in a lowered
tone, as Mabel went away without waiting
to hear Hubert's answer ; " but, of course,
one must be kind to the poor man after
his dreadful affliction, and Mabel and heare
great friends. You'll stay, won't you ?
You know I look upon you as one of the
family, for I loved Constance — poor, dear
little Constance — as my own child."

Poor Connie 1 " said Hubert, with a
sigh. " How little I thought when I went
away that I should never see her again !
I didn't even say good-bye to her ! Yes,
thank you, Mrs. Chesham ; I should like
to stay, very much indeed. It is good of
you to give me so warm a welcome, and to
make me feel that I have a home."

That's right, then," said Mrs. Chesham,
with a kindly pat on the young man's arm.
Now I must go and dress. Will you
stay here, or would you prefer to go down
to George and Monsieur Barthelemy ? "

'* I'll stay here, thanks," answered
Hubert, who felt very well able to dispense
with Mr. Chesham's society.

Very well."

She was gone, and Hubert sat down
in the chair in the corner where Mabel
had found refuge when she first came
into the room. Her violets, all loose,
and drooping for want of water, lay
scattered on the little table beside him.
He picked up two or three, and held them
to his lips, then slipped them inside his
waistcoat-pocket. The room was only
dimly lighted by the piled-up, flickering
fire. It was February now — nearly a year

since Connie's death — and the weather was
very severe. The violets at his elbow
filled the air with their subtle fragrance.
There were pots of flowers and ferns on
the tables and in every available corner.
Whatever the cold and frost without, inhere
it was cosy and homelike. Hubert
had been in the sunny South, but he had
never felt so warm at heart there, as he
did to-night in this hospitable English
drawing-room.

He had fallen into a reverie, with his
eyes fixed on the fire, when the door
opened so unexpectedly as to cause him to
start, and Mr. Baring appeared. The
firelight fell full on his face, and Hubert
recognized him at once, although he came
up unawares. He was in the habit of
arriving early, on the chance of a few
minutes' tete-tete with Mabel.

Hubert got up and held out his hand,
saying —

How are you, Baring ? "

At the sound of his brother-in-law's
voice the artist started violently, and
turned white. He had only discerned a
manly form in the dim light, and had
supposed it to be either Mr. Ohesham or
Victor Barthelemy.

He was so taken by surprise that his
self-possession — perhaps for the first time
in his life — forsook him for a moment.
He mastered his emotion by a great effort,
congratulating himself on the darkness,
and said, in a voice which only trembled
very slightly —

Durant ! Why, how do you do, my
dear fellow ? Who would have thought
of finding you here ? You startled me
awfully."

Here, to his relief, Mabel came into the
room. She was dressed in a gown of dark-blue
velvet, cut square at the neck, and
looked her very best.

'' What ! all in the dark ? What can
they be thinking of? They must have
forgotten the lamps."

She rang the bell, and in a few minutes
the maid brought in two lamps.

There, that's better ! Well, Mr. Baring,
and how's the new picture getting on ? "

Yery well," said the artist, smiling at
her ; " it only wants two or three more
sittings, and it will be done. You played
me false last week, you know."

Yes, it was very bad of me, but it was
really mother's fault. She found, just at
the last moment, that she had something
to do for Mr. Chesham, and that, you
know " She made a gesture with

both hands which sufficiently expressed
what she left unsaid.

Mr. Baring laughed — one of his short,
unamused laughs.

Yes, of course. Well, let us hope that
next Monday that will not come in the
way. How sweet this room is with the
flowers ! "

"Oh, my poor violets! " exclaimed Mabel.
I had forgotten them. They are half
dead, poor little things."

Let me see," said Baring, holding out
his hand.

Mabel docilely gave them to him. He
turned them over, selected a few, and
deliberately placed them in his button-hole.

'' Robber ! " smiled Mabel, taking back
the rest. " Well, you may have them, if
you can bear to let them die there."

Mr. Baring looked at her, but said nothing,

and Mabel turned away to put the
violets in water.

Mr. Chesham and Bartheleray had come
into the room before this, and Barthelemy,
at least, had been a witness of the little
scene. He smiled to himself and stole a
look at Hubert. Hubert was deep in a
copy of Punchy and the next moment
laughed, and read out a joke for Mr.
Chesham's benefit.

The evening passed away gaily enough.
Mabel seemed in high spirits. She refused
to allow herself to be snubbed and disconcerted
by her step-father ; had a brilliant
repartee for every one of Barthelemy's
sarcastic speeches ; was lovingly attentive
to her mother, exceedingly gracious to,
and careful of, Mr. Baring, and politely
friendly to Hubert.

Charming house ! " said Barthelemy,

as he and his friend walked away arm-in-arm.
'' What a sweet woman Mrs.

Chesham is ; and as for Miss Moore

Is she not grown even more beautiful,
Durant ? "

Yes ; I think her looks have improved,"
answered Hubert, indifferently.

Improved ! Improved ! What a word !
Ah, my young Cato, you may put on that
stony mask ; yes, you may look up at that
fat round moon with those ecstatic eyes !
Beautiful, that moon, isn't it ? And all
the time you know there is no moon up
there for you. Moons don't wear blue
velvet gowns and have eyes like diamonds,
do they — lien ? "

Don't be a fool, Barthelemy," said
Hubert.

"la fool ! My dear boy, it isn't I that
am a fool. But I keep my eyes and my

ears open. She sits to him when he chooses ;
she gives him flowers when he likes ; she
condoles with him ; and you know what
your own poet — rather over-rated, though,
your Shakespeare — says about pity. And
all the time you, hel amoroso, are careering
over the Continent. Les absents ont
toujours s tort. You should have hQ&n present,
foolish fellow. I shouldn't wonder — I
shouldn't wonder at all if you had lost it."
I haven't the very faintest idea what
you are talking about," said Hubert, as he
put his latch-key in the door of his landlady's
house.

AN ABSORBING PASSION.

Mr. Baring had found no difficulty in
persuading Mabel to go on with her sittings.
She was too sorry for him, too
anxious that he should not leave off doing
good work, to refuse what seemed so easy
and simple a thing. If she could be of
any use to him she was only too proud.
It was rather difficult to manage, however,
on account of Mrs. Chesham. Mabel could
not go alone to the studio, for Mrs. Simes
was as good as nobody. She was obliged

to ask her mother to go with her, and Mr.
Chesham resented his wife's absence.

Dear George " had grown no fonder of
Mr. Baring ; he entertained an unaccountable
dislike to him. Perhaps the artist
was not careful enough to humour his host's
little idiosyncrasies ; he himself considered
Mr. Chesham a foolish old bore, and, as
diplomacy was not his strong point, it was
probable that he showed his indifference
pretty plainly.

The truth was that all Mr. Baring's
faculties were absorbed in trying to make
Mabel like him — love him. He thought
of nothing else, lived for nothing else at
this time. He had steeped himself, saturated
himself, in the idea of having Mabel
for his wife. Everything else, except his
work, became subordinate to this one idea.
And even his work was all Mabel. Every

picture he undertook had her in it — an
idealized, unrecognizable Mabel, but still
Mabel. And morn and night he asked
himself the great question. Did Mabel love
him ? Was she anywhere near loving him ?
He did not so much want her love for that
love's own sake, as because without it he
knew he could not have Mabel. She was
not the woman to marry where she did
not love.

Mr. Baring would have married her
whether she loved him or not, if he could
have done so. Her feeling for him was
hardly a matter of interest, except as a
means to the end he wanted. He had nota
high opinion of woman's love. Constance
had loved him, and very wearying he had
found her affection. He wanted Mabel
to be his wife simply and solely because
when she was his wife she would be his

property. She was beautiful — with a beauty
that made his heart ache and burn with
a longing which at times grew almost
insupportable. His idea of marriage with
her was to have her always there, always
ready to his hand. Of companionship,
sweet in the beginning, to be perfected by
long years of close association ; of a wish
to take the woman he loved away from her
uncongenial surroundings, and to give her
true happiness, there was no thought in
his mind. He never wondered what lay
hidden beneath the beauty which he coveted
so ; he had not the very faintest perception
of Mabel's moral and mental loveliness.
He knew she was bright and witty, he
knew that she was clever, but he cared not
the least for her brains. She need never
have said anything worth listening to
again, and he would not have minded.

He never even took the trouble to ask
himself whether his love was of the kind
that lasts. That, again, was a matter of no
moment to him, as his feeling was purely
selfish. Mabel's future was of no account
to him. He was obliged to marry her, ashe
could obtain her in no other way ; but
whether she would be happy in the years
to come was not his affair.

Meanwhile he waited and toiled on
towards his aim with his own indefatigable
patience and perseverance. He would not
have lifted a finger to help Mabel out of
any trouble which threatened her, but
which did not touch him. No grief of
hers could have kept his eyes from sleep,
or his hand from his darling work ; but his
intention to possess her, his determination
to have her one day there, in his studio, as
much a part of the furniture of the room
VOL. III. 39

as the lay figure or the easel, dominated
him so powerfully that he would have
moved mountains to attain his end. Each
day brought a fresh supply of will ; he
laid himself down to rest each night with
a knowledge that he was nearer his goal —
nearer only by an infinitesimal fraction of
an inch, maybe, but still nearer.

He was not a diplomatic man ; he had
mixed too little with the world to have
acquired that varnish of tact which so often
passes for fine feeling and consideration for
others. He had always been accustomed
to go straight to his object — simply, if the
object in view were an easily attainable
one ; brutally, roughly, if it were the contrary.


That he was forced to proceed so carefully,
so gently with Mabel, galled him,
while at the same time it fostered and

whetted his passion. He did not like waiting,
although he had had so much of it in
his life. But even if his aim had been
further off than it was, nothing would have
daunted his courage. He trusted in himself
with a light-heartedness that was
nothing short of admirable.

On the Monday following Hubert's return,
Mabel, accompanied by her mother,
came up to the studio to sit for Mr.
Baring.

I'm afraid we are a little late," she
said apologetically, " but it was quite impossible
to get away before."

Baring understood very well what the
impossibility had been, and it did not increase
his friendly feeling towards George.

The sitting began. Mrs. Chesham established
herself, as usual, as close to the fire
as possible, and opened a book over which

she soon began to nod. George had lately
instituted a new form of martyrdom for
his poor little wife. He had got himself
into a habit of sleeping in the daytime,
taking a long nap with beautiful punctuality
every afternoon directly after luncheon.
This naturally interfered with his
nightly rest ; for a more than middle-aged
gentleman, who takes very little, if any,
exercise, cannot, with the best intentions,
sleep more than a certain number of hours.
George was therefore wakeful at night — a
sign, he said, of the increasing severity of
his malady, whatever that might be. He
could, of course, not be expected to lie
awake all alone, so Mrs. Ohesham, who did
not sleep during the day, and who was
very glad of all the rest she could get, was
obliged to keep him company. She had
either to talk or to read to him ; and ** dear

George " found quite a pleasant little excitement
in letting her almost drop off to
sleep, and then rousing her with a portentous
groan or a fit of coughing.

The consequence was that Mrs. Chesham
felt very tired all day, and really had a
good excuse for falling asleep at every
opportunity.

Mabel could not understand her mother's
newly developed habits of somnolence.
Mrs. Chesham kept George's " bad nights "
to herself; there was no love lost between
the girl and her step-father as it was,
and she had no wish to make things
worse.

To-day Mabel was unusually thoughtful.
Baring wondered what she was thinking
about, as he continually glanced from his
easel to her face. He himself preferred
her features in repose. The statuesque had

always more attraction for him than the
sparkling' or the gay.

Have you seen Durant again ? " he
asked,"

said Mabel, unable, to her great
displeasure, to help blushing. How stupid
it was to redden at the name of a man one
did not love !

Baring noted the crimson cheek, and a
dull sense of dislike and injury arose in his
breast.

'•'' Curious fellow, don't you think so ? "
he said carelessly.

*' In what way do you mean ? " asked
Mabel, in a would-be indifferent tone.

Oh, I hardly know how to express it.
He's so full of himself, somehow, it always
seems to me. I never liked him much."

Connie was very fond of her brother,"
Mabel said.

Yes," answered the artist hastily, " and
for that reason, of course, I take a great
interest in him. But I must confess that
he disappointed me very greatly last year
with that ridiculous exhibition, you
know."

"Yes?"

You yourself were disgusted, I remember,"
continued Mr. Baring, " and no
wonder. What trashy rubbish it all was !
How people could buy it, I have never .
been able to understand."

"' I think Monsieur Barthelemy led Mr.
Durant away," said Mabel.

"Ha! clever fellow that Barthelemy.
Much cleverer than Durant, I fancy.
There's a man that might do anything he
liked, now."

But he never seems to me to work."

No, that's just it. I don't believe he

ever will. But he has brains, whereas
Durant "

Oh, surely Mr. Durant has plenty of
brains," said Mabel. '' lie is a young man,
and allowed his imagination to carry him
away. He went too far ; but still — you
must admit — I have always thought that
Venus and Jester ' of his a very striking
picture."

Trash ! " said Baring, contemptuously.
Mere trash."

It's very conceited of me, no doubt,"
said Mabel, firmly, " but I really can't agree
with you. Of course I shouldn't presume
to discuss the workmanship of the picture
with you, but the idea in itself is surely a
touching and pathetic one."

Baring looked at her with cold disapproval.


I consider that, and all the others,

meretricious and inartistic in the extreme,"
he said slowly. " No true artist could have
painted one of them. They sicken me to
think of."

Mabel was silent. She did not like to
say any more in Hubert's defence. It was
strange, indeed, that she should have said
as much as she had. She to be insisting
on the merit of the very pictures that had
been the deathblow to her affection for
Hubert ! It was mean of Mr. Baring to
speak so of a younger and less successful
brother artist. And yet — was it mean ?
What he said was only what had been
her own opinion, put into very much less
forcible terms. Surely Mr. Baring had a
perfect light to think for himself, and his
criticism only proved his own high standard,
his own lofty conception of his art.
It would be absurd of her not to be able to

bear any adverse comments upon Hubert's
work, past or future, just because she^-
had once loved him. If Mr. Baring also
thought so poorly of it, it was quite certain
that she had been right.

She looked at the great artist as he stood
before his easel. Mr. Baring never looked
so well as when he was painting. His
features wore an expression of nobility,
which was not always present at other
times. Entirely absorbed in his work, an
earthquake might have swallowed up all
other human beings around him, and he
would not even have heard a sound. The
world, with its ups and downs, its passionate
struggles, its grandeur, and its
wickedness, was non-existent for Stephen
Baring when his brush was in his hand.

For the hundredth time Mabel looked
and admired.

What a wonderful man he was ! He
had lost none of his greatness now that
she had come to know him so much letter ;
on the contrary, his genius had become
more and more a reality to her. Every
time she saw him she was impressed anew.
His very simplicity and inability to express
himself, which she attributed to the long
years of struggle, during which he had
had no one to whom to talk, had become
beautiful in her sight. It seemed to her
that this man, whose genius and power
of will were nothing less than Titanic,
possessed within him the soul of a little
child, innocent, humble, and pure.

There was no sordidness, no vulgarity
to her in the artist's outward life. Where
Constance had seen lack of refinement, she
could only discern the existence of a soul
above petty details. She had long ago

ceased to wonder at the inconsistencies
which had surprised her when she first
knew Baring. He was the very incarnation
of all that was high and noble in her
eyes, the beau-ideal of what a true artist
should be. And he had her pity as well
as her admiration and reverence. He had
lost his wife, and he suffered because of
that loss. Other people might say — as
George, she knew, did — that he had not
loved Connie very much. What other
people said was generally wrong. She
was not very old, but she had lived long
enough to discover that fact. She knew
that Baring missed his wife, and felt very
lonely without her ; she knew — because
he had told her so.

She realized instinctively, and, womanlike,
was proud of the knowledge, that
Baring was at home with her, and trusted

her to see further into his mind than anyone
else had ever done. She felt that she
understood him, and that he knew she
understood him, and cared very much
about her — as a friend. Oh, only as a
friend, in the very strictest sense of the
term ! She did not love him in the very
least, and certainly did not imagine that
he loved her. Mr. Baring had done his
work in his own masterly fashion so far.
It is a triumph to creep very near a
woman's heart, and yet to be able to let
her think you a long way off, away among
the host of other acquaintances and friends,
a little in advance, perhaps, but still at
a safe distance.

It was poor Connie's birthday yesterday,"
Mabel said, after a while. " Did you
remember it, Mr. Baring ? "

As a matter of fact, the artist had not

even been acquainted with the date of his
wife's natal day, but he answered, in the
low voice that always seemed to deepen
with emotion whenever he spoke of her —

Yes, I remembered it."

Mr. Durant asked me the other day
where she was buried," went on Mabel,
softly. ^' I told Jim I did not know."

Mr. Baring stooped down for a brush he
had dropped.

'' In Pere-chaise," he answered briefly.

"He said he went up there when he
passed through Paris on his way home,
and looked for the grave, but he could not
find it."

Pere-chaise is a large cemetery,"
said Mr. Baring, dryly. "If he had asked
the officials, no doubt they would have been
able to direct him."

I suppose he never thought of that,"

said Mabel. " How fast asleep mother is ! "
as Mrs. Cliesliam gave vent to a very
slight, but unmistakable snore.

Yes," said Baring, inwardly blessing
the good lady for her convenient drowsiness.
" Have you been doing any work
lately ? " he asked, after an excursion to
the fireplace to put on more wood.

Mabel coloured.

No," she answered ; '' I haven't. I
suppose it is very cowardly and childish
of me, but I have hardly touched a brush
since the spring."

Ah ! " said Baring, but his smile expressed
a great deal more than his exclamation.


I have been thinking over what you
said to me long ago " Mabel went on.

Baring passed his hand over his moustache
and beard. The action meant self-congratulation.

She remembered even his
careless words of long ago !

— and I have almost come to the conclusion
that you were quite right. It does
seem absurd to trifle with a thing, to
which, if one wants to excel in it, one
must give one's whole time, one's whole
energy and thought. Now, I can't work
at my painting as a man does. I have
the housekeeping to do — and "

Ah, do you keep house ? " asked Mr.
Baring, with a very lively recollection of
various excellent dinners at Mrs. Chesham's.

Yes ; I have done that for years past.
And, of course, that takes up some of one's
time ; and then there are Mr. Chesham's
books to change, and the shopping to do,
and visitors to see. Besides, one must read
a good deal, or else one falls so quickly
behind things, doesn't one ? "

Mr. Baring looked at her with a half-sarcastic
laugh.

I don't know," he said. " All that is
out of my line. I never see any visitors
that I can help, and new books I never see
at all."

But, then, don't you ever feel as if you
were slipping back — as if the world were
rushing on, and leaving you high and
dry ? "

No," said the artist, slowly ; " never.
I have no fancies of any kind. My world
is liereT He looked at his easel and round
his studio with eyes kindled almost to
ecstasy by the artist's passionate love for
his Art.

For the moment all grosser thoughts, all

common and paltry desires, faded into the

background. Stephen Baring wore no

mask as he stood there with every feature

VOL. m. 40

THE ACADEMICIAN.

ennobled through the strength of the ruling
passion of his life. Such as he was at that
instant, God had made him, and he bore
upon him the stamp of his Creator's hand.

JESSIE SYMPATHIZES.

During all those long, dreary months,
while spring passed into summer, summer
into autumn, autumn into winter, Constance
had been languishing in her prison.

When the weather had become warm,
she had been seized with an unconquerable
longing for the fresh air.

Let me go out ; I want to go out,"
became her constant cry.

Miss Eeid had steadily refused at first.
She had a presentiment that something
would go wrong if she allowed her charge

to cross the threshold. Constance's perpetual
entreaties and her failing health,
however, so worried and alarmed her,
that she at last gave way, and took the
poor girl for a walk or two after dark,
making her wear a thick veil, and being
careful only to go by deserted ways,
where there was but little fear of meeting
any one who had ever known Mrs.
Baring.

But the fulfilment of her wish did not
give Connie so much pleasure as she had
hoped. The veil, the night air, the lonely
ways, and, above all, Miss Reid's company
were not what she had craved for, and
after a week she refused to continue the
walks.

*^ Just like her — first worries one's life
out, and then changes her mind," grumbled
Reid to Jessie.

She is contrary ; but, Lor', it must be
just awful to be her ! " was Jessie's answer.

And it was awful. Connie was pent up
during all the long hours of each succeeding
day in that narrow little sitting-room,
without ever a lady's voice or a lady's
touch to come near her. Careless, alien
hands ministered to her wants — such of
them as were patent to the eye, that is
to say ; for she never asked for anything
now. She was not coerced, nor harshly
treated. She could rise when she chose,
employ her time as she liked, have what
she fancied to eat, and go to bed when
she wanted to. If she would have read
them, she might have had books in plenty ;
there was a piano in her room ; or she
could have occupied herself with her needle.
But none of these things interested her.
She could not fix her attention on a book ;

she had never cared for music ; she was
too listless to work. So she did nothing.
From the time she got up until she went
to bed she did absolutely nothing.

She didn't even think much at last; she
sat with her hands folded on her lap, often
with her eyes closed, in a condition very
nearly of mental imbecility. Every now
and then she would rouse herself, wonder
if she were really going mad, and struggle
for a day or two with her inertness ; but
gradually it would creep over her again,
and she would sink back into the old state.

Mary Reid was never unkind to her.
She attended upon her as carefully as ever,
although Constance herself had lost a
great deal of her fastidiousness. She
treated her exactly as though she were
a child, humouring her fancies, taking no
notice of her pettishness and fretfulness,

but never relaxing her watchfulness, never
allowing herself to feel secure.

Jessie was often very unhappy about
their visitor. Constance's beauty, her
soft and gentle ways, her delicate skin,
and refinement had made a deep impression
upon her. For the first time in her life
she allowed herself to question her sister's
actions. Avery likely, if Mary had murdered
some one outright, and had told
Jessie that it was necessary, Jessie would
not have felt very conscience-stricken.
She knew that one had to do all sorts of
dirty work when one was poor ; that was
as simple and inevitable as could be. But
this particular kind of dirty work that
Mary had taken upon her shoulders was
peculiarly repugnant. Jessie could not
bear the sustained effort so well as her
older and more heart-hardened sister.

She tried at first to amuse Constance,
to cheer her up ; but her rough, though
well-meaning, efforts were all of no avail.
Constance shrank from the sound of her
boisterous laugh, and quite openly showed
her distaste.

She was conscious, however, that her
younger gaoler was more pitiful than the
other, for Jessie's awkwardly expressed
sympathy was still unmistakable, and she
allowed herself to hope that sympathy and
cupidity combined might effect what pity
alone had failed to achieve before.

Jessie was especially fond of looking
at Connie's rings and pretty things.
Connie's hands had got so thin that herrings
slipped off now, and she had given
up wearing them. They lay in a heap
upon her table, and Jessie was never weary
of trying them on the little finger of her

own red work-worn hand, which she then
admired as much as if it had been the most
delicately white member in the world.

She was sitting with Connie one day,
as she often did now when Mary was out,
engaged in this all-delightful occupation,
when Connie, who had been languidly
watching her for some moments, suddenly
said —

Are you fond of rings, Jessie ? "
Ain't I, though ! " answered the girl,
gathering up the half-dozen glittering
hoops, and pouring them from one palm
into the other. " I do think they're just
lovely ! "

'' Have you any of your own ? "
Yes, I've got one," replied Jessie, contemptuously
— " a little wretch of a thing,
with garnets in it. And I don't believe
the setting's gold neither."

** Who gave it you ? " asked Connie.

Mary had it long ago, and chucked
it over to me when she was tired of it.
There, just look at that ! " she cried, flashing
a half-hoop of diamonds in the light.
'' Ain t that fine ? "

Would you like a ring like that ? "
asked Connie, softly.

Jessie stared, and then laughed noisily.

Me ? Oh, my ! Oh, Lor' ! Just think
of me with a ring like that ! It would
look funny when I was cleaning the stove,
wouldn't it ? "

She put it on her finger, and turned her
hand backwards and forwards.

It does look nice, don't it ? "

You could have a ring — that ring —
if you liked," said Connie, her heart beating
fast.

Jessie looked hard at her.

Whatever do you mean, ma'am ? "

ril give you that ring, Jessie, if you
would care to have it."

You give it me ? " said Jessie, with
her mouth agape. " What made you think
of giving me your ring ? "

I will give it you, if you will post a
letter — just one little letter — for me," said
Constance, in a whisper.

She clasped her hands hard while waiting
for Jessie's answer. Would she ? If
she only would !

But quick and firm came the reply,
although there was a shade of regret in
the tone —

I can't, ma'am. I can't do that. It
would hurt Mary, and I ain't going to turn
against her."

But how could it hurt Mary ? " pleaded
Constance. " I should tell my friends how

kind she and you have both been to me,
and they would be only very much obliged
to her. They couldn't be vexed with her
for helping me, you know."

Can't be done," repeated Jessie, letting
the rings fall with a little clatter on the
table.

Is there any other you would like
better — or as well ? " asked Connie, eagerly.
'* Look and see."

Jessie looked at them, but shook her
head.

No ; they're all lovely, but I can't
do it."

'^ Take them all," said Constance.

I can't ; so don't ask me no more,"
returned Jessie, turning away from the
tempting, glittering heap.

The tears began to flow slowly down
Connie's pale cheeks. She raised her

hands clasped together, then buried her
face in them.

How cruel ! Oh, how can you be so
cruel ? " she sobbed,

Now don't, ma'am ; oh, please don't
you do that," said Jessie, feeling a lump
come in her own throat.

Some day," said Connie, lifting up her
face and looking at Jessie with heavy,
tear-laden eyes — " some day you will be
punished."

Jessie looked round uneasily. " Laws,
ma'am ! Don't say such awful things ! "

Yes, you will be punished," repeated
Constance, slowly.

She got up, and went into her bedroom,
feeling that all hope was over. She
threw herself on her bed, too wretched
even to cry. For the first time, she
thought of killing herself. There was

nothing left to live for ; it would be better
to be dead. Only how ? She sat up and
looked about her. No, there was nothing.
She had no poison of any sort, and poison
was the only way. She knew she would
never have the courage to do violence to
herself, but she could take poison.

She got up, and walked up and down
the little room, pondering the means to
get what she wanted. In one of her turns
she came near the window, and stood idly
looking out. It was a small window, and
had two heavy iron bars across it, which
would have effectually prevented any one
from using it as a means of escape.

Reid had often warned Constance of the
danger of letting herself be seen at this
window, which looked out upon the road,
and from which any one standing at it
could plainly be seen.

If your husband was to come along,
and catch sight of you, the fat would be in
the fire, and no mistake," she had said.
And there's no reason why he shouldn't
come along. It's as likely as not that he'll
drop in one of these days to ask how you
are getting on down there."

Hitherto Connie had strictly attended
to this injunction, but to-day her mind
was full of something else, and she stood
looking out, heedless of the peril she was
incurring.

She had just thought of something
which had brought a faint smile to her
lips, when her roving eye was caught by
a figure which was coming down the road
towards the house.

Something in the walk touched her
memory with a dim sense of familiarity.
Who was it that walked like that ? Someone

she had once known, surely. She
leaned forward, parting the muslin curtains
with one trembling hand, while she
strained her eyes eagerly towards the
advancing figure.

Nearer and nearer it came. Constance
could distinguish the colour of the tie
now ; an instant more, and the features
were clearly discernible. It was her cousin,
Harry Lockyer !

With a cry of joy, she began fumbling
at the window latch. It was bolted, and
her quivering fingers found some difficulty
in pushing back the stiff fastening. At
last it yielded. She flung up the window,
and leaned out. Harry had just passed
the house ; he was in front of the nests
garden now. She opened her mouth,
but her throat was dry, and her voice
would not come. She struggled, as one

does in a nightmare, to produce a sound.
He was going — he was almost out of sight !
He was walking so quickly, all-unconscious
of her presence. Another frantic effort, and
she was just about to shriek out Harry's
name, when a hand was laid over her
mouth, and she was dragged roughly back.

So I've caught you, have I ? " said
Eeid, white with anger and fear.

Let me go. My cousin — he would help
me," gasped Connie.

Reid flung her rudely on to the bed,
sprang to the window, and looked out.
All that was to be seen was the top of a
tall hat, only just visible above the hedge
of the front gardens of the houses.

'* I wonder you're not ashamed of yourself,"
she said, coming back to Connie, and
turning her over with scant ceremony.
Your cousin, indeed ! What cousin ? "

VOL. HI. 41

But Connie had had time to bethink
herself. If Harry had come once, he might
come again. She was not going to betray
what might prove a chance of escape.

I don't know," she said, and shut her
eyes.

Not another word could Reid extract
from her, and, to her infinite disgust, she
was forced to abandon the attempt to make
her speak ; for she would have given a
good deal to know whom Connie had
seen.

It's all your fault for leaving her by
herself," she said angrily to Jessie afterwards.


How could I help it ? " replied that
damsel, feeling justly aggrieved. " You
never said I was to fuller her into her
bedroom."

'' Well, then, I say so now ! " said Miss

Eeid, sharply. '' Don't you ever leave
her again — not for five minutes, when
I am out."

Oh, all right," said Jessie, sulkily.

She obeyed her sister to the letter, however,
and from that day Connie never
found herself alone in her rooms again.
If ever she got up and went into her bedroom,
Jessie was sure to follow, and to
station herself at the window, so that it
was impossible for Connie to approach it.

Under these circumstances the thought
of suicide, which had quitted her the moment
she saw her cousin, returned with
full force. She had already conceived
an idea, which she presently attempted to
put into execution.

Mary discovered her charge one morning
already awake when she entered the
room, with her handkerchief pressed to

one side of her face, groaning as if in
great pain.

Whatever is the matter, ma'am ? " she
asked, dismayed.

My tooth ! " replied Connie, dismally ;
it aches so ! I've not had a wink of
sleep all night. I shall have to see a
dentist."

That yon can't — not if it aches ever
so," returned Reid. " Let me see — which
is it?"

Oh, I can't open my mouth ! " groaned
Connie. '' It's right at the back. I must
have something for it."

Eeid went downstairs and prepared a
brown-paper plaster with vinegar and
pepper.

Poor Connie bore the application of this
time-honoured remedy with heroism. She
declared that it had eased her pain, and

complained no more until the evening,
when it came on afresh, and she renewed
her moans.

Well, I can't do no more ; you must
just grin and bear it," said Reid, after she
had tried the brown paper, and everything
else she could think of, all in vain.

If I had some laudanum," gasped
Connie. " That's what I had to use
before."

Eeid, perfectly unsuspicious, and willing
enough to do what she could, despatched
Jessie for some laudanum.

There," she said, soaking a tiny morsel
of cotton wool in the opiate, and giving it
to the sufferer. "• Perhaps that'll do you
some good."

Connie pretended to pack it away in her
tooth, then lay down with a sigh.

I think it will," she said exhausted.

Leave the rest by me, please, so that
I can put some more on presently."

Reid placed the bottle on the little
table beside the bed and withdrew, leaving
Connie with a night-light, and locking the
door after her as usual.

The instant her departing footsteps
ceased to be heard, Connie sprang up.

Even in that moment, when she was on
the brink of taking the most irrevocable
step that mortal can take, the chief thought
in Constance's mind was one of childish
pleasure at having outwitted her astute
attendant.

Reid thinks herself mightily clever,"
she murmured, catching up the little bottle,
and turning it upside down so as to lose
none of its contents, " but IVe been as
clever as she this time."

Next morning, when Reid came in to

her charge, she found the bottle that had
contained the laudanum lying uncorked
and empty on the bed-clothes. Mrs.
Baring was fast asleep, breathing as peacefully
as an infant.

I do believe the little fool went and
drank up that laudanum," exclaimed Miss
Reid, with much scorn, to her sister, when,
having left Connie as she was, she descended
to her breakfast. " Perhaps she
thought it 'ud kill her! Why, there
wasn't as much in the bottle as 'ud do fora
fly ! I've given her more myself many
a time before now."

SUSPICIONS.

Hubert and Barthelemy were sitting together
in the former's studio. The place
was full of smoke, for Barthelemy 's pipe
was alight, and he always seemed to make
twice as much smoke with it as any other
man. Hubert was lounging in an armchair
by the fire, his head thrown back and
his eyes fixed upon the dingy ceiling.
Barthelemy had cleared a corner of the
table for himself, and sat there swinging
his long legs and looking at Hubert with
a half-sarcastic, half-affectionate, expression.

So you think of setting up an establishment,
housekeeper and all ! " he said.
*' Curious, you English. The first thing
that occurs to you, when you have a little
money, is to encumber yourself with the
machinery of housekeeping. Why not
stay in lodgings, where you are as free as
air ; where some one else is responsible
for the gas and taxes ; where there are no
plumber's bills, no parish church, no coal
circulars ? Ah, you wonder how I have
become so well acquainted with your
plagues ! Remember, my friend, that
Mr. Chesham loves me well, and has
entertained me for hours at a time on
these and other subjects dear to his heart.
There are few details about a house's trials
that I do not know well now."

Mr. Chesham is an old woman," said
Hubert.

True ; but he is also a householder — an
awful example of the dangers of being a
householder. And you, my friend, are an
artist. A man who takes a house instantly
becomes respectable. An artist
should not be respectable ; ergo you must
not take a house."

"But I am respectable," Hubert said,
with a laugh.

Barthelemy held up his hands in horror.

You ! Respectable ! Oh, my poor
friend, the good Grot forbid ! But there is
no fear. You are, it is true, somewhat
Philistine as regards the water you use, and
the fuss you make about your linen ; you
are also inclined to be prudish about trifles,
such as le beau sexe. But these faults
are the remnants of your Puritanical ancestry
; you cannot help them, and at heart,
at heart, my dear boy, you are a true

Bohemian. You love the unconventional,
the unusual. You can enjoy a luxurious
and recherche dinner one day, and be as
particular that the caviare is the right sort,
and that your wine is just iced enough, asa
man who respects himself should be. I
know it, for have we not had such dinners
together ? Have we not chatted merrily
enough over the grouse and the ethereal
omelette, and afterwards strolled out and
gone pleasantly to the theatre, as if we *
had never had a thought of work in our
lives, or had never put our hands in our
pockets and found them empty ? And the
next day, we have exchanged the spacious,
glittering salle de restaurant for some
wretched little margate in Soho, where the
pot-au-feu or a tough beefsteak was all
that awaited us. Have we not been as
gay over the tough beefsteak as over the

caviare ? And did we not walk the streets
afterwards with as much enjoyment as we
had felt in our comfortable seats in the
theatre ? Or again, have we not been as
snug here, in this very room, with some
cold ham and bottled beer, and a torn copy
of Theophilus Gau tier's poems ? Say, is that
not all true ? "

"Every word of it," said Hubert.

Wei], my friend, the man to whom all
that is enjoyable is not respectable ; he is
a Bohemian. The respectable man has a
horror of the irregular. He likes the same
dining-room, with the same table laid in
the same way, the same number of courses,
and the same servant to wait on him everyday.
If a spoon is put in front of his
plate, instead of at the side, it causes him
a disagreeable emotion ; if the servant
makes a noise with the plates, his nerves

are affected for the rest of the evening.
He likes his clothes laid out, his newspaper
cut and ironed, his wife orderly and neat,
his children smooth-haired and good, and
his cigars of one medium quality. He drinks
tea instead of coffee after dinner, in short,
and that alone is enough to make him
respectable, and to prevent his ever enjoying
himself. Look at your Baring now.
There is a respectable artist for you. He
is not a Bohemian — oh dear, no ! And his
pictures are as respectable as himself.
They have all the staid decorousness of a
man steeped in tannin, whose heart beats
a little slower after every cup of tea that
he takes. Do you suppose it ever happened
to Baring to feel his eyes grow wet
on reading some of the glorious poems we
know of, or to feel his soul float far away
on the wings of some fantastic fancy ? No,

no ; this horizon is bounded by the Royal
Academy, an institution patronized by all
the nobility and gentry of the land, and
therefore — eminently respectable."

I don't pretend to understand Baring,"
Hubert said, after a few minutes, which
Barthelemy had employed in filling his
pipe afresh.

Nor I — quite," answered Barthelemy,
meditatively. " I saw a good deal of him
when you were away, and I must confess
that he is a riddle to me. He was a strange
husband for that pretty little sister of
yours to choose."

Poor child ! I often wonder whether
she was happy with him."

I know nothing about that, hut one
thing I am sure of."

"• And that is ? "

That Baring is in love with Miss
Moore."

"Nonsense!" said Hubert, energetically.


Ah, but it isn't nonsense. I tell you
be is in love with her. I have watched
him with her, and, impenetrable as the man
is, I have seen his eyes kindle as he looked
at her. And he is always there now. And
she sits to him, too."

I think you are mistaken."

I may be, of course, but I don't think
so. I believe he is laying siege to her
heart, and he does it very cleverly and
patiently. Besides, Miss Moore is an
eocaltee, which is always dangerous. She
is the kind of woman who would marry
a drunkard, to reform him, or a genius, to
help and sustain him."

What rubbish you do talk ! " said
Hubert, testily. " How should you know
anything about Miss Moore ? "

I have eyes in my head, that's all, and
I suppose it is allowable to use them.
Hallo ! there's a knock."

Come in," said Hubert, and the maid-of-all-work
put in an untidy head.

'^ If you please, sir, there's a lady as
wants to see you."

^' Aha, Puritan ! " began Barthelemy.

But Hubert interrupted him.

A lady ? What kind of lady ? Did
she give no name ? "

Yes, sir ; I was going' to tell you. She
said her name was Mrs. Eobson."

Robson ? Oh, show her up directly,"
said Hubert, going out on the landing.

Robson, how are you ? " he said
heartily, as the good woman came rather
heavily up the steep stairs. " Come in
and sit down. It's rather smoky in here,
but you know my bad ways of old. Bathes

this is my sister's old nurse and
maid, and the oldest friend I've got."

If I mistake not, you were speaking
of Mrs. Eobson not half an hour since,"
said Barthelemy, making a polite bow,
and handing Robson a chair.

So I was. I was just saying, Robson,
that I wished I knew where to find you.
I am going to take a little house, and I
thought perhaps I might be able to persuade
you to come and take care of it forme.


There's nothing I should like better,
Mr. Hubert, now my poor dear's gone,"
said Robson, wiping her eyes. " But Mr.
Baring knew my address, for I called upon
him after he came back, to ask him if he
could give me a photograph of her. I
knew he had some, as she was taken just
before I had to leave her. He was out,
VOL. III. 42

and I only saw Mrs. Simes, but I left my
address, and she promised to give it to
him. He sent me a photograph a day or
two afterwards."

'^ That's curious," muttered Hubert. " He
told me he didn't know it. Perhaps he'd
forgotten it."

I went up to Miss Moore's this morning
to ask her if she knew whether you had
come back, sir, and she sent me on here.
I thought I should like to see you — that
perhaps you could tell me something about
my poor darling. I know nothing of how
she died, only that she is dead ; and that
I heard from Martha when I called at Mr.
Baring's house months ago, not very long
after they went to Paris. I had written to
Miss Connie to give her my address, and
to ask if I might come and see her. When
I got no answer, I thought maybe he was

keeping her from writing to me, as he
always did hate me ; and so I went to the
house one morning, at the time when I knew
he was generally engaged with a model,
and rang at the bell. Martha opened the
door. ' Can I see Mrs. Baring ? ' I said.
No, you can't,' she said — just like that —
for she's dead.' I turned all giddy and
faint with the shock, and had to go into the
hall and sit down. I asked Martha, but she
knew little more, except that it was cholera
and very sudden. I called ever so many
more times, hoping to see Mr. Baring ; but
he was away travelling, and when he came
back, he wouldn't see me."

Eobson paused to wipe away her tears,
and then went on.

I've felt wretched all these months — not
so much because she's dead, because if she
is, she can't have trouble any more ; but

what I should like to be sure of is, is she
dead or not ? And if she is, did she die a
natural death ? "

Why, Eobson," said Hubert, aghast,
as the woman lowered her voice, and looked
at the two young men with frightened
eyes, '^ what do you mean ? Why should
you suspect anything to the contrary ? "

Because I would suspect Mr. Baring of
anything cruel or deceitful," returned Robson,
vehemently. " I know how he tortured

my poor child, and how he wronged her.
He treated her shameful, from the day he
married her."

This grows serious," said Barthelemy,
laying down his pipe. " But have you
any reason for thinking Mr. Baring should
want to get rid of his wife ? People may
quarrel and disagree, but — murder is a
very different thing."

Mr. Baring would do murder, or anything
else, if he wanted to," said Eobson,
doggedly. *' Why did he send me away ?
Why did he whisk her off to Paris like
that ? Why "

We didn't even know you had been
sent away," interrupted Hubert.

'* Oh yes, Mr. Hubert. I was sent
away, a few days before he took her
abroad. She ran away from him — the
brute ! — one morning, and went to Miss
Moore. He came after her, took her back,
and then turned me out of the house, accusing
me of encouraging her against him."

Hubert and Barthelemy looked at one
another. This was all news to them, for
Mabel had never talked about Constance
before Barthelemy, and Hubert had had
no private conversation with her since his
return.

Then, did she go abroad quite alone
with Mr. Baring ? " asked Hubert.

No, sir. That much I got out of
Martha. A new maid was engaged, and
they took her with them."

Then there can have been nothing
wrong," said Hubert. " If Baring had
wanted to do Constance any harm, he
wouldn't have provided himself with a
witness."

Hem ! " said Barthelemy, " I'm not so
sure. A witness is a very useful thing
sometimes, if you manage carefully. The
maid could witness on both sides, you
know."

What became of the maid ? " asked
Hubert.

I don't know, sir. She didn't come
back to the house at all. Martha never
saw her after she left for Paris."

You say that Mr. Baring was unkind
to Connie," said Hubert. " Tell me what
you mean."

Robson immediately began a long and
not unduly exaggerated account of Connie's
life with her husband. She told how she
had been disappointed from the first ; how
she had come home to a house " little
better than a workhouse" in its appointments
; how she had been refused fires,
candles, furniture, clothes, everything that
she wanted, and that she had a right to
have ; how Mr. Baring had objected to
give her money ; how she had hated Mrs.
Simes ; and so on, all through the dreary
history.

Hubert was simply dismayed. His poor
little sister, the one who was nearest to
him on earth, whom he should have protected
with his whole might, to have

suffered these things ! His poor little
butterfly — pretty, graceful Connie ! A
wild feeling of fury surged up in his
breast. He would get at the truth ; he
would force it out of the coward who had
taken his sister's life in his hands, only to
blast it and fling it away.

Hardly knowing what he did, he seized
his hat, saying hoarsely —

Wait here for me. I shan't be very
long."

Hubert," cried Barthelemy, catching
hold of his friend's arm, " where are you
going t

Can you ask ? To that man, of course,
to ask him what he has done with my
sister ! "

But you can't do that, in the state you
are in, my dear fellow. We must try and
think quietly what is best to be done."

Yes, sir," chimed in Robson, distressfully
; " don't you go near him like that.
You don't know what he is."

Come and sit down," said Barthelemy,
forcing Hubert back into his chair, " and
let us talk matters over sensibly. You see,
you have no real grounds to go upon.
What could you accuse him of ? "

Of having ill-treated my sister,"
answered Hubert, fiercely''

But what proof have you of that ?
Only Mrs. Robson's word. Oh, madame,
we do not doubt it for one instant ; but
the question is, not what we believe, but
what others would believe. Now, because
a husband and wife quarrel, as I said
before, one has no right to assume, if one
of them should die, that he or she has been
helped out of the world."

But how do we know she is dead ? "

asked Robson, eagerly. " She may be shut
up in one of those awful lunatic asylums.
I've always heard, begging your pardon,
sir, that it's as easy as easy to get any one
put away over there."

Not so easy as all that," said Bar-thereby,
with a smile ; " and more especially
not for an Englishman, and an
Englishman who is not very familiar with
any language but his own. No, Hubert ;
frankly, I don't see that you have any case.
The utmost you can do is to demand proofs
of your sister's death ; and those, as he
is a passionate man, according to Mrs.
Robson, Mr. Baring will very likely refuse
to give you. And what will you do then ?
Appeal to the law ? Make a scandal ? "

Hubert shook his head.

I thought not. That would be foolish
and childish in the extreme. No ; we

would not do that. What can we do,
then ? Let me think a little."

He got up, strolled leisurely to the
mantel-piece, filled his pipe from the
tobacco-jar upon it, lighted it, and returned
to his old position on the table, sending
out huge puffs of smoke. Robson and
Hubert regarded him as if he were an
oracle. At last he spoke.

Look here. How would this do — forme
to go up in a friendly, everyday sort
of way to see Baring — he's asked me
several times, but I've only been once —
and to pump him as skilfully as I can
about his wife's illness and death ? I'll doit
very carefully ; and if he gives me any
information, I can easily get it verified in
Paris. If, on the other hand, he shirks
my questions, and shows signs of embarrassment,
then either you or I, Hubert,

could go over to Paris and make inquiries.
You see, he'll be more likely to answer me,
because he won't suspect me of being
interested. If you were to go, you would
show in a moment that you doubted him."

"Yes," said Hubert. "Thanks, very
much, old boy. I think that is about the
best thing we can do."

But be careful, sir," put in Eobson,
for he's as artful as a fox."

Be tranquil, madame," said Bathes
complacently ; "a French fox can
beat an English one out of time. You
shall see."

FENCING.

That very evening, Barthelemy walked
over to Mr. Baring's house. He had not
formed any definite plan of attack, but
trusted to chance to inspire him. Mr.
Baring was at home. Barthelemy was
shown into the studio, where he found the
artist seated in an armchair, smoking,
before the picture at which he had been
painting that day.

How are you, Barthelemy ? " he said,
cordially enough.

I'm very well, thanks," replied that

gentleman, seating himself so that his own
face was in shadow, while the artist's
caught the full light of the gas. " Thought
rd look you up this evening."

Yery good of you," said Baring.
Have a pipe ? "

'* Thanks," said Barthelemy, producing
his own well-used one, together with a
tobacco-pouch, from which he proceeded
leisurely to fill it.

Sensible beggar that ! " thought Baring,
watching him. " Brings his own tobacco."

For the Exhibition ? " asked Bathes
nodding towards the large canvas
before Baring.

*' Yes," answered Baring, looking at it
with the passionate affection which always
appeared in his eyes when examining his
own work. " I shall have to grind at it if
it is to be finished in time."

Very fine, very strong," remarked
Barthelemy, scrutinizing it carefully. " Is
it not from Miss Moore that the central
head is painted ? "

Yes," said Baring, frowning a little.

I thought so — although you have certainly
done her a great deal more than
justice. Miss Moore is not as pretty as
that."

Don't you think so ? " asked Baring,
indifferently.

"■Wh}^, I can't think so. But, all the
same. Miss Moore is a very pretty girl
indeed."

Baring made no reply. After a minute,
Barthelemy said —

"Astonishing how late your English
girls marry ! Look at Miss Moore ; she
must be twenty-four or twenty-five, and
yet there she is left. I really wonder that

the old people haven't seen to things better.
But I heard something the other day."

He nodded his head sagely. His keen
eyes detected the tightening of the artist's
fingers on the arms of his chair.

Baring fixed his gaze on the Frenchman's
face, and said very quietly —

About Miss Moore ? "

Yes, about Miss Moore."

About Miss Moore's — going to be
married ? "

'' Yes."

Baring's face had not changed its expression
; he only seemed to be looking at
his visitor more intensely.

To whom ? "

Guess."

Baring said, in a voice which not all his
self-control could keep from trembling a
little—

Hubert Durant."

He said it without hesitation, as an
assertion, not as a question.

Touclie I " thought Barthelemy. " I
was right. He loves her." Out loud he
said, " Well, perhaps and perhaps not.
Who knows ? What I heard was so vague,
so in the air, that I really oughtn't to have
mentioned it. I heard no names, neither
Durant's nor — any others."

Baring's eyelids quivered for a moment,
but the next his gaze was as steady and as
serene as ever.

People always talk about a girl's marriage,"
he said. " That's all they think
about, I suppose — I mean the girls themselves."


Heaven knows ! " replied Barthelemy,
with a shrug. " It would be hard to tell
what a girl thinks of."

VOL. III. 43

Her own face, or nothing," returned
Baring.

Her own face or her lover's, you
mean."

I don't expect a girl thinks much of
her lover's face," said Baring, looking at
his pipe and pressing down the tobacco
with his finger. " They are too selfish,
too wrapped up in themselves."

Barthelemy and Baring then proceeded
to exchange a few of those unfaltering:
anecdotes relating to the fair sex, with
which a good many men are always well
primed.

Barthelemy threw himself back and
laughed noisily ; Baring took his pipe
from his mouth and, without moving his
head, gave a low, joyless laugh, which
somehow damped the other's mirth.

The artist then rose, fetched a decanter

of whisky from a cupboard, and put a
small kettle, which was standing within
the fender, upon the fire to boil.

You have all your things to hand,"
observed Barthelemy.

Mr. Baring assented sadly. '•' Since my
poor wife's death I have fallen back into
my old bachelor habits," he said.

^^ Ah, how you must miss her ! " said
Barthelemy, sympathetically.

Yes ; it is very sad to lose one's wife,"
Baring said quietly.

And so suddenly, so unexpectedly !
Mrs. Baring was only ill a day or two
wasn't she ? "

Three days," answered the artist, after
a scarcely perceptible pause. '^ She sickened
early on the Friday, and died late at
night on the Sunday."

Shocking 1 " ejaculated Barthelemy.

'^ You were at the Grand Hotel, were you
not ? "

We were."

And it was cholera ? "

Yes, cholera." He waited a minute
and then said, " Of course they were
very upset about it at the hotel. They
wanted us to go away very badly, but
the doctor would not hear of it. I know
they smothered up the whole affair as
much as possible. They were furious with
the doctor for not allowing her to be
moved."

Sensible man, that doctor ! Whom
did you have ? "

Mr. Baring hesitated. " I fear I have
forgotten his name," he said, with an
apologetic smile. " My memory is not
retentive for foreign sounds."

And so the hotel people were unkind !

Was Mrs. Baring nursed by you, then, or
did she have a nurse from outside ? "

Her maid nursed her," replied Baring,
fixing his eyes again on his visitor's face.

Ah, yes," said Barthelemy ; " that dear
Robinson — Rawlinson — whom Mrs. Baring
always spoke of so affectionately. By
the way, she is going to keep house for
Durant."

Mr. Baring turned himself in his chair.

No ; Robson was not with us. My
wife had been compelled to dismiss her
shortly before we went abroad. She had
become familiar — presumed too much on
the license of an old servant."

His voice was perfectly steady now, and
his eyes as clear as steel.

That so often happens with old servants,"
said Barthelemy. " I remember
my grandmother had an old woman who

had been her nurse. This old person had
never left the family, and when she fell
into second childhood, she was still allowed
to potter about as she liked. She had an
idea, in those old years of lies, that my
grandmother was still a child, and used
to call her Bebe. ' Bebe ne doit pas avoir
dii poivre 1 ' she would say, or, ' Bebe, tu as
sali tes homines, ce nest pas sage I ' and she
would scold my grandmother terrifically.
It was sometimes tiresome, but no one ever
had the heart to say anything to her. I
am surprised that Mrs. Baring should have
sent away her faithful nurse. A servant
like that is not easily replaced."

No," assented Mr. Baring.

But perhaps you were fortunate ? "
pursued Barthelemy.

We got a maid who suited my wife,"
answered Baring.

Mrs. — Robson, is it?— seems to be heartbroken
about Mrs. Baring's death," said
Bartbelemy, feeling that he was getting
on very badly.

Have you seen her ? " asked Baring, ina
tone of genuine surprise.

Yes ; I was there the other day when
she called upon Hubert to make some
arrangements. I told you he is going to
engage her as housekeeper."

"- Is Durant going to take a house ? "
inquired Baring, seizing the opportunity
of changing the subject.

'eyes ; he is thinking of doing so, but
he has not chosen one as yet. By the way,
he is going over to Paris in a week or two.
He told me to ask you where his sister was
buried."

Baring grew very pale. What did all
these questions mean ? Mabel had asked

him the other day where Connie had been
buried, and now this man came with the
same question. Could they have begun to
suspect ? But how could they ? It was
utterly impossible.

We buried her in Pere-chaise," he
answered slowly, trying as he spoke to
read Barthelemy's face.

In Pere-chaise ? Ah ! He has a
wish, I fancy, to go and see the grave.
He feels very deeply about her."

Naturally," said Mr. Baring.

Queer place, Pere-chaise ! " observed
Barthelemy. " I've often had a good mind
to make a picture out of one or two corners
I know of there ; but I'm afraid it would
be rather commonplace after all. Pictures
that seem to point an allegory always
remind one of copy-book maxims. In
which part is Mrs. Baring buried ? "

He asked the question abruptly, and
Baring gave a twist in his chair. He
dropped his match-box, stooped for it, and
relighted his pipe before he replied —

For the life of me I couldn't tell you.
The place was strange to me, and, of
course, I was — I could not take much
notice then."

No, of course not. But who saw to it
all for you ? They would know."

Mr. Baring took out his handkerchief
and jSssed it over his forehead.

How hot this room is ! " he said, with
a glance at Barthelemy. " I don't remember
the name of the man who arranged
the funeral. Do you suppose I was in a
fit state to think about all those things ? "
he added impatiently. " If Durant wants
to visit his sister's grave, all he has to dois
to go to the cemetery, and look until he

finds it. As it is there, of course it is to
be found."

Of course," said Barthelemy. " Well,
I shall tell him. Are you thinking of
going over to the Salon this year ? "

Baring shook his head.

I never want to go to Paris again.
The time I spent there last year seems
to me like a bad dream. I have a horror
of the place."

That's easily understood," said Bathes
" Still, I've heard that there are
going to be some fine pictures this
spring."

They always say that beforehand,"
remarked Baring, contemptuously, " and
then the instant the exhibition is opened,
every one howls out that there never was
such a bad one."

Well, they say that Lefort has got

something really out of the way this time,"
said Barthelemy.

'^ Lefort ? Don't know his name."

I wonder at that ; but perhaps our
Parisian gossip doesn't reach quite as far
as we Parisians fondly believe. There was
a fine scandal about this man, a year or
two ago."

Was there ? " said Baring, relieved
that his troublesome visitor had at last
abandoned his interrogative style of conversation.


Yes ; they said very ugly things about
Monsieur Lefort. He had married a young
and exceedingly pretty wife, it appears,
with whom he had received a very large
fortune. Instead of being grateful to her
for bringing, together with her own charming
self, so important an addition to the
menage this gentleman, when once he had

made everything secure, proceeded to ill-treat
his pretty wife. She had been
brought up in the midst of luxury ; he
surrounded her with common and coarse
objects, tried to make her live almost en
paysanne, denied all her wishes, and, in
short, reduced the poor little woman to
a state of misery. So far the facts are
pretty well known. But that is not all.
About two years after his marriage. Monsieur
Lefort went to Spain. His wife went
with him, but he returned alone. She had
died, he said, in Madrid. He observed the
proper time of mourning, and after that
had elapsed he married again — another
very pretty, but this time portionless, girl.
Then — how it began, no one can say ; in
the same way that all scandal and slander
begin, I suppose — it was suddenly whispered
about that Monsieur Lefort had not

lost his first wife quite in a legitimate
manner. People said she was shut up
somewhere — in a convent, perhaps, in
Spain, or even that her husband had
poisoned her. But how should any one
know such a thing ? It was probably his
rivals who started the libel, jealous of his
success — for he's a very clever painter.
Anyhow, the scandal, which of course rests
upon the most baseless grounds, has served
to make him more popular than ever. I
myself have never believed it for a
moment ; do you, monsieur ? "

Barthelemy's eyes had never once quitted
Mr. Baring's face. He would have given
a good deal to have put his hand over the
artist's heart, to ascertain whether that
organ was beating at its normal rate or
not. The face he was looking at told him
nothing. Mr. Baring's gaze was fixed on

his picture. He did not even appear to
have been listening very attentively.

*• If there is anything wrong, he has the
devil's own nerves," thought Barthelemy,
as he finished up his story with " Do you,
monsieur ? "

Baring made a deprecatory gesture.

How can I say, when I have never
even seen the man ? " he said, in a tone
of no profound interest.

But does it not seem to you almost
too horrible — too atrocious — to be true ?
Just think of the cruel heart a man
must have so to sacrifice a young and
beautiful woman, solely for his own selfish
gratification."

Perhaps she worried him," said
Baring.

He felt that this was an unwise remark
; he knew that he ought to have

expressed nothing but horror, but something
impelled him to utter the words.
The instinct of self-defence, perhaps.

Barthelemy laughed.

Being a woman, I think we may
take that for granted," he said cynically ;
but still, you know, my dear fellow,
if every husband were to get rid of his
wife because she * worried ' him, there
would be no limit to wife murders."

Perhaps she was untrue to him ? "
suggested Baring, calmly.

No ; for a wonder, in this particular
instance, the breath of scandal has spared
the woman. No one ever heard a word
against her ; she was all loyalty and
devotion to her husband. But I cannot
and I do not believe it."

He was silent a moment, and then,
looking full at Baring, whose eyes just

then happened to meet his own, he said
slowly —

A man would need to have a stout
heart, as well as a cruel one, to be
able to go to bed at night with such
a ghost to keep him company, would
he not, monsieur ? "

Yes, he would," Baring answered
briskly. " You are certainly not very
cheering to-night, Barthelemy. You'll
positively give me bad dreams, with
your mysteries and ghosts."

He laughed lightly, and turned away
to make up the fire.

Barthelemy felt that he was just exactly
where he had been an hour before.
He had gained absolutely nothing.

He stayed another hour, although he
found it harder work than usual to be
entertaining. Mr. Baring, on the other

hand, seemed in especially good spirits.
He unbent as Barthelemy had never seen
him unbend before, talked of his travels,
fetched out old and new sketches, and
told Barthelemy the subject of his next
large picture. He appeared quite sorry
when bis visitor at length announced that
he must go, and parted from him with
a cordial invitation to renew his visit at
an early date.

But when once he had closed the door
on Barthelemy, Stephen Baring's expression
changed. He had been using frightful
self-control during these two hours ;
he felt that he was suspected, and that
between suspicion and detection there
was but a very little way.

He almost staggered back into the
studio, poured himself out a wineglass-ful
of neat spirit, and drank it off. Then,

VOL. III. 44

as the fiery liquid coursed throup^li this
veins, he sank into his armchair, and
prepared to look things in the face.
Strange that he had never, even for a
moment, foreseen such a situation as this !
Everything had seemed so perfectly easy
to arrange and to compass. He had
not even taken the trouble to make up
a story in case he were questioned. It
had never occurred to him that Hubert
might some day wish to visit his sister's
grave.

And now, just as things promised to
be going so nicely, came the threatened
detection. Until danger menaced him,
perhaps Mr. Baring had never allowed
himself to face the full horror of what
he had done. Even now, it was with
no movement of pity for the girl he
had so wronged that he thought of

her, lonely, Forsaken, pining in captivity.
He merely began to realize how exceedingly
uncomfortable it would be for him
if any one were to find her.

He, Stephen Baring, Royal Academician !
His career would be broken, his future
ruined ; his work, his genius, would go
for nothing. As scene after scene passed
through his brain, stimulated by anger
and the unwonted alcohol he had swallowed,
cold drops burst out upon his
forehead, his hands grew damp and
clammy, and he stared wildly in front
of him, as though he saw Ruin and
Disgrace standing there tangibly, jibing
at him.

Curse her ! the little devil who had
wrought this havoc in his life ! Fool
that he had been, not to have proceeded
more effectually ! What had he wanted

to be SO soft-hearted for ? * He could
so easily have made her appear to kill
herself. Twenty ways rose up before
him, as if to mock him with their apparently
easy execution. And now it was
too late! Every way of retreat was
cut off. He could not produce her again,
he dared not get rid of her, because he
was not sure of Mary Reid.

Sitting in front of the picture, from
which the mild face of the mother of
Christ looked out benignantly, Stephen
Baring cursed and swore under his
breath. When he had somewhat recovered
his self-possession, he mechanically
took up a brush and began to work,
instinctively going to his Art for the
comfort and reassurance of which he
stood so urgently in need. Even as his
fingers closed round the brush he felt

better ; his head went up, his back
straightened, the hight came back to his
eye. He gave a cynical smile as his
hand, with a few facile touches, brought
out the sweetness of the Yiro-in's mouth.

Obstacles ! There were always obstacles
in the way of everything worth
having. Had he not met with them
before, and had he not been able to
sweep them all triumphantly away ? So
he would now. Who should stop him ?
Barthelemy ? He had heard a thing or
two while he was in Paris, which suddenly
recurred to him. Monsieur Bar-thereby
would get in his path, would
he ? Then Monsieur Barthelemy must
be frightened, and made to release the
prey he thought he had so nicely under
his hand. He would find it ill fighting
with Stephen Baring.

REGRETS.

Hubert's return brought no peace to
Mabel's mind. It is true that she was
now able to see for herself that her
rejection of him had not permanently
injured his career, and that his health
was perfectly re-established. As she had
continually told herself, these were the
only reasons for anxiety she had had
about him, all this time. Even if one
does not love a man, one does not wish
to have been the means, however innocently,
of spoiling his whole life.

But although it ought to have been
eminently satisfactory to her to see her
former lover so well, so vigorous both in
body and mind, somehow there was a
certain sting in the thought that he could
do so very well without her. A girl is
a wonderfully curious creature. Hubert
had gone through a severe fever, had
exiled himself for months. This really
might have been supposed to be sufficient
to mark the depth of the affection, which,
as she had refused it, it was necessary to
root out. If he had returned still a
humble supplicant, Mabel would have
despised him, and yet his apparent ease
and polite indifference in her society
piqued her. She had told herself a
hundred times a day that she did not
love him, but there had always been the
certainty in her mind that he loved her.

Now she found that she liacl been mistaken.
Hubert had '^ got over it." She
had been flattering herself that she was
worth more than a fleeting passion ; she
had been silly enough to believe in a
man's fidelity. She need not have been
so troubled about him ; while she was at
home, grieving over the pain lie had so
necessarily caused him, he was working
and enjoying himself abroad, as if Mabel
Moore had never existed. She lead been
wearing mourning for his heart while it
was still above ground, beating as gladly
and composedly as ever. She felt that
the situation had turned to bathos, and
the knowledge wounded her to the quick.

It hurt her all the more because, in
the several interviews she had had with
Hubert, she had found that if her love
for him was gone, her old intuitive understanding;

of him remained. Lie always
knew what he was going to say before
the words were half out of his mouth ;
she always understood his meaning to
the very last degree ; the same remarks
were constantly on their lips. Every time
this happened, she felt a secret thrill of
shame. In the old days, she had been
glad, and had known that Hubert followed
her mind in exactly the same way. But
now the understanding was all on her
side. Hubert bad evidently cured himself
so completely that he had killed his
interest in her, as well as his affection for
her.

How often she had told herself that she
despised him — the man who had trafficked
away his birthright ! And yet now, looking
back upon it all, she was not sure —
not as comfortably, absolutely sure as in

those first indignant days — that she had
not been a little hard, even a little — impertinent.


She had so accustomed herself to playfully
scold and encourage Hubert, had so
often chided him for making the most of
his difficulties, for being faint-hearted, that
she had perhaps grown, insensibly, to take
up a rather too authoritative attitude
towards him. It was not that she was
conceited — with all her faults, Mabel was
as free from vanity of any kind as it is
possible for a girl to be — it was not from
love of dominion ; it was because Hubert
had let her see that he was weak, and she
had been too young, too inexperienced, to
make a good use of her knowledge. She
had taken advantage of it, had presumed
upon it. If he wanted comfort, sympathy,
he should have them in abundance ; but he

should also be checked — kept up to the
mark. She had not known that immature-ness
does not of necessity imply imperfection
; she had forgotten that an error
need not be a crime. She had communed
with herself a great deal during these last
months, had grown to look at things from
a more tolerant and generous point of
view. In one word, she had realized that
she had made a mistake. Instead of
proving herself, as she had then imagined,
to be high-souled and scrupulously conscientious,
she had simply shown that she
Twas a narrow-minded and selfish woman,
who, at the first crisis in her lover's life,
would turn her back upon him, and leave
him to fight it out by himself, for fear of
losing her own self-respect. She got red
now when she remembered the exaggerated
epithets she had used, the lofty position

she had taken up. How often Hubert
must have laughed at her since, her own
keen sense of humour told her only too
mercilessly. She had made herself ridiculous,
and she was suffering for it now.
She had sent him away, he had gone, and
yes, there was no blinking the fact ; lie
might as well be honest with herself at
last — she Loved him still.

Her cheeks burned as she forced herself
to make this confession. She loved him,
and he did not love her any more. His
love for her had been one of the milestones
in his life ; she had turned aside from him,
and he had passed on and left her. He
was right ; he could have done nothing else
but take her at her word. He would
probably find some other woman presently,
who would love him more than she loved
herself, and who would make him happy.

But she, Mabel, must live out the rest of
her life in loneliness and solitude of heart,
made all the more bitter because it was so
by her own fault. She herself had held
the knife to her own happiness, and she
had done her work of destruction effectually.

She had been brooding over her sorrow
in utter misery of mind one afternoon,
when Barthelemy, to her great vexation,
came in. She could have borne the
presence of any one just then rather than
the Frenchman, with his eternal satire
and would-be clever criticisms.

Barthelemy, however, was delighted to
catch Miss Moore alone. He had his own
reasons for wishing to talk to her. Although
Hubert was more than reticent
on the subject, Barthelemy was convinced
that his friend still loved Mabel. His
behaviour the first time he had seen her

again had only confirmed Barthelemy in his
belief, and Hubert's tacit objection to talk
about her had made him more certain still.
Victor Barthelemy was a faulty being
enough. He was idle, shallow, irreligious
from pure indifference, and unprincipled.
But there was one corner of his hlase heart
which would have been fit for a queen to
look at ; in that corner was enshrined his
affection ibr his friend, Hubert Durant.
For Hubert he had the man's love which
passes that of women — an affection which
rests upon no given basis, which springs
neither from respect, nor fear, nor even
affinity of taste or mind, nor from anything
else, but which exists — because it is,
and for no other reason. Hubert might
have painted the very best or the most
infamous pictures in the world ; he might
have given himself over to drink, might

have forged, stolen, rendered himself unfit
to associate with any one respectable — it
would have made no difference to Bathes


Barthelemy had loved, after his own
very simple and uncomplicated fashion,
dozens of women ; the Quartier Latin had
resounded with his processes in the old
days. He had been accustomed to come,
see, and conquer, and had taken it quite
as a matter of course that it should be so. ,
Even now be was continually in the heat
of some affaire for he was still susceptible,
and the neighbourhood of Soho
contains many of his countrywomen who
are by no means averse from the polite
attentions of any one so beau garcia as
Yictor was. But his severest passion had
cooled down, and left no trace behind.
For the life of him, he could not have

remembered what She had been called —
Amelia, Suzanne, Fleiirette, Marie — there
had been so many. But there was only
one Hubert Durant. Perhaps it was the
young Englishman's innate purity of mind
for though Hubert was no fool, he had
never felt tempted to roll himself in the
gutter as a necessary preliminary to love
and marriage — that first had attracted
Barthelemy, as like is often attracted by
unlike. There was no depth of the gutter,
and we know that Parisian gutters are the
deepest in the world, that Barthelemy did
not know thoroughly well. He had wallowed
in mud ever since his student days,
for his companions were all of the same
moral persuasion as himself, the more
respectable part of the community having
always very quickly withdrawn from their
society. Even among those black sheep.

whose pages in the recording book of
heaven must have been one huge and
ineffaceable blot, Barthelemy had been
king, by priority of wickedness and
callousness.

He could hardly remember nowadays how
wicked he had been. London, although
bad enough, is not Paris. Yictor was
older now ; the glamour had worn off,
and Hubert Durant had made him his
friend. Barthelemy 's hitherto brazen
cheek had almost felt the warm flush of
shame sometimes, when Hubert had been
talking to him. Hubert's mind seemed to
gravitate towards the pure and the noble,
just as naturally as Barthelemy's and those
of his camarades had tended towards the
filthy and the vile. Without being in the
very least a milksop, he was clean in his

conversation by preference. He was not
VOL. III. 45

ignorant, but be was not corrupted. What
he bad learned of " life " bad not tarnished
bis shield, bad not blunted bis sword.
He bad sufficient knowledge of evil to
walk warily ; that was all.

k. man like this was a revelation to
Bartbelemy. Among bis fellow-students
there bad been degrees of badness ; those
wbo would not go the lengths be and ibis
like did bad been nicknamed Us sages,
but their sameness bad, after all, only been
comparative. It bad never been 
's good fortune to meet, at a
time when it might bave influenced his
after life to some real purpose, a man who,
while perfectly manly, bad preserved some
of the frank innocence of a child. He had
become acquainted with Hubert at too late
a period of his existence for any radical
change to become possible in him ; he bad

been black too long ever to get perfectly
white again, but at least be had the grace
to see and to admire. His whole heart —
that unfortunate organ which he had made
a butt of all his life, which he had tossed
hither and thither, which he had stifled
when it spoke, mocked at, insulted — went
out to Hubert. He loved him with a
blind, unreasoning affection, fostered by
the unsuspecting, ingenuous return made
by the younger man. He could not have-borne
that Hubert should come to know
some of the details of his earlier years,
the years in which he had lived like
a beast without a soul. He would not,
either by word or example, have led the
young artist astray. So far as his lights
went, he tried to do his friend no harm ;
he would almost sooner have sacrificed
their friendship, precious as it was to him-and

so, prizing Hubert as he did, he
wanted him to be happy. It would not
have been in his nature, if he had not felt
a little jealous of the woman beside whose
affection, he was worldly-wise enough to
know, his own was as nothing in the eyes
of his friend. One might paraphrase the
proverb, and say, '* When marriage comes
in at the door, friendship flies out of the
window."

Many of the sharp speeches that had so
often wounded Mabel had had their source
in this jealous feeling. Barthelemy knew
that Hubert loved her, and he did not
think her wholly worthy of that love.
He considered her cold, hard, and proud —
everything, in fact, that she was not.

Whatever she was, however, he knew
that she was the one and only woman in
the world for Hubert, and this being so.

he was not going to do anything to keep
them apart. On the contrary, he wished
to help Hubert. He had an idea that
Mabel was not wholly indifferent to Mr.
Baring, whatever she might once have
felt for Hubert ; he was sure that Baring
intended to propose to her as soon as he
could decently do so, and he was not sure
that he might not be accepted.

Under these circumstances, the best
thing he could think of was to take Mabel*
into his confidence with reference to the
mystery, as he had quite come to look
upon it, which overshadowed Connie's
death. He knew she had been very fond
of Connie, and that the mere suspicion of
her poor little friend's having met with
foul play would be horrible to her. He
had therefore come to dinner earlier than
he had been invited, hoping to see Mabel

alone, and, as events proved, he had
calculated rightly.

"' You look pale, mademoiselle," he began
blandly, after taking the limp hand Mabel
offered him. "T trust you are not unwell?"

Hateful, sharp-sighted man ! " thought
Mabel, while she answered, " I am perfectly
well, thank you."

Have you seen our friend Durant
lately ? "

^' No."

I was with him this morning," said
Barthelemy, throwing one leg over the
other and making himself thoroughly comfortable
in his own Bohemian way. " He
is very busy again."

Is he ? " asked Mabel, as indifferently
as she could, though she felt the hot blood
leaping to her cheek under the coolly
scrutinizing gaze of her nonchalant visitor.

Yes. A large work — splendid subject.
But, of course, he has told you all about it."

Mabel shook her head. She knew her
lip would have quivered if she had opened
her mouth.

"No? Ah well, then, I mustn't divulge
secrets. But I tell you, mademoiselle, that
Durant will astonish the world yet. It is
wonderful what power of execution he has
for so young a man ; and joined to that, he
has imagination, intellect. Yery different'
from our other friend, Mr. Baring, who
has the skill of a creator, but who has to
trade upon other people's brains for a good
deal of what he does."

'' You are surely not going to criticize
Mr. Baring ! " observed Mabel, with just
the faintest emphasis on the first word of
her sentence.

Barthelemy laughed good-humouredly.

'' You cannot forgive me my poor little
fantastic pictures ? It grieves me to the
heart, mademoiselle, to have set my hand
to anything which could so displease son.
But nevertheless, all the same, I certainly
take the liberty of criticizing Mr. Baring.
Why not, mon Dieu ? He is not a divinity."

Mabel was silent. She was vexed that
the conversation had so soon taken its
usual disagreeable tone. Why did this
man seem to take a positive pleasure in
vexing her ?

No, he is certainly not a divinity,"
repeated Barthelemy ; " although I grant
you that lie possesses the skill of one. But
he is not a divinity. Oh no, very far from
it. And if this ugly story about his wife
be true, why, then "

Mabel looked up quickly. " What
story ? " she asked.

Why, ' said Bartlielemy, gazing unconcernedly
at her, '' I have heard it
whispered that — that it is not certain that
Mrs. Baring is really dead."

What can you mean ? " Mabel said, ina
low tone of horror,

Bartheleray gave her a clear and succinct
account of Robson's suspicions. She listened
very attentively, and when he had done — ■

Is that all ! " she exclaimed, in a tone
of relief. " Robson ! Why, she is the,
most absurd and illogical old creature you
can imagine. Now, seriously. Monsieur
Barthelemy, can you believe this ridiculous
thing for a moment ? Just think. Why
should Mr. Baring, even supposing him to
be so awfully wicked as to be able to do
such a thing — why should he have done it?"

Barthelemy gave no answer. He could
not tell Mabel why.

It is monstrous ! " went on Mabel,
gathering confidence from his silence.
'* What will people say next ! Some one
had better go over and look at poor Connie's
grave; then, I suppose, they will
be satisfied."

But no one knows in which part of
Pere-chaise that grave is," said Bar-thereby.
" Mr. Baring professes to have
forgotten."

Well, is Pere-chaise such an enormous,
trackless desert," asked Mabel, indignantly,
" that it is impossible to find a
grave one looks for ? "

I do not know, mademoiselle. No one
has yet tried to find it. Doubtless the
authorities will know where to look. Every
burial is, of course, registered."

And no one has yet looked ? " cried
Mabel.

No one, mademoiselle."

And on such — nonsense yon base your
accusation, — you attack the reputation of —
of such a man ! You should be ashamed
of yourself, Monsieur Barthelemy."

She was going on to say more, but Mr.
Chesham made his languid appearance at
this moment, and she instantly became
silent.

Well," thought Barthelemy, who had
hailed the interruption joyfully, "at all,
events I've put a spoke in Baring's wheel.
Once arouse suspicion, and then "

Which sage reflection showed that Monsieur
Barthelemy, the worldly wise, had yet
left one region unexplored — a woman's
heart.

^I NOT GOING TO D<

Mr. Baring did not shake off the uncomfortable
impression left by Barthelemy's
visit as quickly as he hoped. He felt nervous
and out of sorts. He tried hard to
reassure himself, by repeating over andover
again that there could be nothing
to fear. Just because the measures he
had taken were so simple, it seemed
to him they made discovery impossible.
He could stop Barthelemy's mouth very
easily, and Barthelemy was the only
person he feared. Hubert would never do

anything without Barthelemy. He wished
that he had let Barthelemy see that he
knew something of the reason for his
leaving Paris ; if he had only had the presence
of mind to do that, the Frenchman
would have been cowed at once. But he
had let him go without a word. He did
not like to seem anxious, or he would have
called on Hubert, where he would probably
have seen Barthelemy, and where
he could either have told Barthelemy what
he knew about him, or have warned Hubert
against him. But he felt that it would be
unwise to do this, and that he had better
trust to chance to meet Barthelemy at the
Cheshams' house some evening.

It surprised him very much that suspicion
should have been aroused. He had
never thought that any one could possibly
conceive the idea that he could wish to

get rid of his wife. He had lived so
secluded a life with her ; no one but Mabel
outside the house had known of their
quarrels ; and Mabel, he felt sure, had
always taken his view of things, and would
never have suggested that he was in the
wrong in any way. And Eobson had
never troubled him for a moment. He
had avoided seeing her, because he disliked
her so intensely, not because he was
afraid of her.

Only to a man who had led the absorbed
and isolated life of Mr. Baring could so
incomplete, so easily traceable a plan have
occurred. Many an ordinary man would
have constructed a far more artistic
scheme, but Baring brought even to the
commission of his evil deeds that wonderful,
and often almost pathetic, simplicity
and singleness of heart which is perhaps

only found in genius, and which commands
both admiration and respect when manifested
in the things of everyday life. He
had arranged and carried out his plot with
a perfectly easy mind, to which the fear
of detection had never for an instant presented
itself. He was sure of Mary Eeid
and of himself, and that had seemed
sufficient.

An evening or two after Barthelemy's
visit, the artist was sitting as usual examining
his day's work, when there came
a gentle tap at the models' door, which
opened directly into the studio from the
road. Baring lifted his head and listened.
He thought he must have been mistaken.
But in another minute the tap came again,
and this time he rose and went to the
door. He stood for a few seconds with
his hand on the latch, his head turned

towards the interior of the room, and an
expression of unmistakable apprehension
on his features. The knock was repeated
rather louder than before, and, pressing his
lips firmly together, Mr. Baring opened
the door.

Mary Reid stood without. She came
quickly in past him. Baring gave an
uneasy, quick glance up and down the
road, and then closed the door, and came
back into the room.

What a time you kept me waiting ! "
said Miss Reid, unamiable. She had
taken possession of Mr. Baring's armchair,
and was very calmly unfastening
her heavy cloak.

What does this mean, Mary ? " said
the artist, angrily, standing a few paces
away from her. " You know how unsafe
it is for you to come here."

That's why you kept me waiting so
long outside where any one could see me, I
suppose ! " returned Mary Reid, sarcastically.


'^ How was I to know it was you ?
Didn't I tell you always to write ? "

You did ; but this time, you see, I've
come."

'what for?"

Now, look here, Stephen," said Miss
Reid, apparently not in the least discomposed
by Baring's irritation ; " you needn't
speak in that way, you know. I'm not a
dish-clouts even if I do do your dirty work
for you. Lord ! what a fine studio this
is ! Yery different from the little old one,
where you and I — do you remember,
Stephen ? "

An attempt to twist her worn features
into a bewitching smile was received with

VOL. III. 46

very ill grace by Mr. Baring, who only
repeated sullenly —

What have you come for ? "

Well," said Miss Reid, arranging her
skirts, " I must say you're not over polite.
You don't offer me nothing, and such a
cold night too. You've not altered much,
I see, though I have. My goodness, when
I came in here that day I answered the
advertisement — you know, Stephen — and
saw my portrait as you'd done it ever so
many years ago — there, I did feel queer,
and no mistake."

She was fully conscious that she was goading
him almost past endurance, and was
finding a pleasant excitement in doing so.

"Poor little lady!" she said. "She'd
have been surprised at some of the things
I could have told her, wouldn't she ? And
me standing there like a stranger "

She laughed as if very much amused.
Baring made a step towards her.

Will you tell me what you have come
here for ? " he said, hoarse with rage. His
eyes glittered dangerously, and Mary Reid
saw she had gone far enough just then.

I've come," she said, falling at once
into a more respectful tone, " to tell you
that your wife is ill — very ill."

'* Oh, I suppose that means that you
want some more money ? " sneered Baring. *

No, it don't," replied the woman, imperturbably
; " if it did I would have said
so. That's another matter, that we'll keep
for another time. I mean what I said —
Mrs. Baring is very ill."

Hush ! " said Baring, looking round
uneasily.

'" You look pretty bad yourself," observed
Reid, with a keen glance at his paled face.

Yon don't seem to be having such a good
time as I suppose you thought you'd
have."

What is the matter with her ? " asked
Baring, taking no notice of the last remark.


I believe she's consumptive. She
coughs so, says she has a pain in her
side, and once or twice she has spat blood.
She gets weaker every day, too. She
ought to see a doctor."

She can't do that," said Baring, hastily.

Well, she ought to. Suppose she dies
in my house, what are we to do then ?
A pretty fuss they'll make, when they find
there's been no doctor called in 1 They'll
be having an inquest or something."

Do you think she'll die ? " asked Baring,
quickly. If Constance died, there was a
solution at once of all his difficulties.

I do really think so," answered Reid,
seriously. " It may be months yet, but
I'm sure she's very ill."

If you think she may live for months,
what's the good of calling in a doctor
now ? " asked Baring.

I said I thought — that isn't knowing.
Not to have a doctor to her is more than
I bargained for when I agreed to take this
job for you, and I half wish now I'd let
it alone. It would be like murder."

Baring looked at her steadily from beneath
his bent brows. He looked until
she moved her head impatiently aside.

What do you stare at me so for ? It
would. It would be like murder to let her
die like that. It would be murder, and
nothing else."

'^ Well ? " said Baring, never removing
Ills eves from her face.

Mary Eeid's gaze wandered round the
studio, carefully avoiding Mr. Baring.

He made another step or two forward,
which brought him close to her. She
shrank back, almost as poor Connie had
once done in that very room, when she
thought her husband was going to strike
her. Mr. Baring put this hand upon Reid,
and forced her to look at him.

Mary Eeid had brown eyes, something
the colour of Mr. Baring's own. They
had been, and still were, the best feature
of her face. As she raised them to the
artist's, they flashed with a spark of
genuine indignation.

You wouldn't do that ? " she said.

'why not?"

Because I won't do it for you," said
the woman, quickly, "and you're too much
of a coward to do it for yourself."

'* You won't do something I ask you ? "
said Baring, pressing a little more heavily
upon her shoulder, and looking at her
with a sombre light in his steadfast eyes.

Not that ! "

Not what ? "

*' I won't — you know what I mean."

No."

I won't murder your wife for you.
I've done her enough harm as it is."

But, Mary," said Mr. Baring, in the
mild tone in which one addresses a refractory
child, " who ever asked you to
murder my wife ? "

Why, you know that was what you
meant."

^* My dear creature," said Baring, removing
his hand and sitting down opposite
her, " you are quite mistaken. Murder
is an ugly word, but you have been the
only one to use it."

Do you suppose I am to be bamboozled
now?" demanded Reid, hotly. "1 know
you and your wickedness. I know there's
nothing you'd stick at, to get your own
way."

"And you promised to help me."

And so I have. I got her away, and
I've kept her snug. There's not a soul
that suspects anything about it. That
was nothing so very bad to do ; but the
other's a very different matter."

There you go again. The other ! AV hat
other ? "

What you fished to see if I'd do, a
minute ago. You'd kill her fast enough,
if you could manage it, I know."

I would do nothing of the kind," said
Baring, quietly. " I never even thought
of her death until you mentioned it, and
then I certainly never proposed to you todo

Ler any harm. I shall be very grieved,
of course, if she should die, poor thing.
But I need not be anxious about it, for I
know you will do all you can for her.
And if, in spite of all your care, she
should die, I promise you that it shall
make no difference to you. I have always
meant to do well by you, Mary, and if
your patient should — not live, I shall
certainly continue to pay you the same
sum yearly that I do now. But she is
sure to be all right — quite sure."

He met Mary Reid's eyes as composedly
as ever, as he came to the end of his speech.

I do believe you're a devil," the woman
said, with a sort of grudging admiration ;
"but you shan't tempt me this lime. No,
Stephen, it won't do. If she does die, it
shall be fair and square. Do you think,
besides, I'd trust you ? Don't I know

you'd let me swing without ever troubling
your head except to remember that dead
men, and dead women too, tell no tales ?
But anyhow, whether I trust you or not,
I'm not going to do it, and so I tell you
plain."

Baring shook his head slightly as if
bewildered.

'* My dear Mary," he said patiently,
how curiously you do take a thing into
your head ! I keep on telling you that
I never meant what you fancy, and yet
you go on harping upon it."

'swell, let's drop that now, and come
to things straight," said Reid. " Can I
call in a doctor to her ? "

*' I should prefer not."

If you won't give me leave, I shall
have to take it, then," said Reid, calmly. " I
won't have her die on my hands like that."

'' But the doctor might suspect something
; he might even recognize her,"
objected Baring.

"' Pool) ! he won't think nothing but
that she's a relation of my own, just as
I've told the neighbours. I can frighten
her easy into telling him nothing but what
I choose ; and as for recognizing her, how
on earth should a doctor from my end of
the town ever have seen your wife ? It
won't be a fashionable doctor I shall call,'
I promise you. There ain't much inducement
for West End men to come and settle
down near us ! "

I don't like it ; it's dangerous," persisted
Baring.

Well, you'll have to lump it, then. I
thought I'd better tell you, because there'll
be a bill for advice and medicine, and
because I thought you'd better know the

state she's in ; but I must have my own
way, whether you like it or not."

Baring was inwardly furious, hut what
was he to do ? He had placed himself in
the power of this woman. If he were to
offend her, she might turn upon him and
betray him. Feeling that it served him
right for not having attended to his affairs
himself, he said —

Very well. Have it your own way.
I know you don't care whether you ruin
me or not."

The woman gave him a reproachful look.
You've no call to say that to me,
Stephen," she replied. " I've served you
faithfully in this, and in many another
thing too. You might speak a little more
kindly for the sake of the old times ; but
you were always a hard man, even when
you were young and said you loved me."

Yes, yes, Mary," said Baring, rather
more warmly — lie had no wish to quarrel
" I didn't mean to speak unkindly.
You're a dear, faithful girl, and I shan't
forget all I owe to you. You mustn't
mind if I seem a little upset this evening ;
I've had a good deal to worry me this last
day or two. Must you go now ? " he
added, as his visitor began to fasten up
her cloak. " Have a glass of wine first.
Oh, you must " — as she shook her head.

He went into the dining-room and
brought back some wine and some classes.
Come to the fire and sit down," he
said, kindly.

Reid laid her cloak aside and obeyed.
Baring thought how utterly she had lost
her good looks as she sat down.

She had been pretty enough once, but
only with the beauty du diable. She had

crossed Stephen Bearings path then, and
had fallen an easy prey to him. She had
loved him, and had been proud to be loved
by him. She was. bitterly poor ; she had
a little sister to keep ; but she sat for
Stephen Baring for nothing, gave him as
many hours of her precious time as he
chose to want. So long as she was fresh
and pretty, the artist had been very kind
to her. The remembrance of those happy
days had never left her all these years.
That he had grown cold and indifferent
directly her looks began to fade, that he
had cast her off as soon as she was no
more use to him as a model, made no
difference to her. She did not look upon
him as her betrayer ; she only remembered
that he had been her lover. He had given
her a great deal of happiness ; she thought
it only natural that she should remain at

his service for the rest of her life. She
knew he was a bad man — that there was
little he would not do for his self-gratification
; but she liked him none the less on
this account. Her own family traditions
did not include the words '' truth " and
honour ; " nor in her dealings with the
world, upon which she had been early
thrown, had she become well acquainted
with their meaning. Her own rule was
to do what had to be done as well as possible,
taking care not to be found out if
it were anything reprehensible. Hardened
as she was, however, she was not utterly
wicked, as she had proved this evening.

She took the wine Baring offered her,
and drank it in silence. She could not
talk to the grave, eminent artist as she
had been wont to talk to the poverty-stricken
and ignored young man of long

ago. Their minds had seemed very much
oil a par in those days. She had not felt
any inferiority to him ; on the contrary,
he had often seemed uncouth and awkward
to her. But all that was changed now.
Even if Stephen Baring still wore frayed
linen and shabby clothes, even if he still
ate his cheese with his knife, as she had
seen him do one day when at table with
his wife, and even if he had hardly
enlarged his vocabulary since the old
times, he could paint very much better
now, and the two magic letters he wrote
after his name had conferred on him a
license to do as he chose. She, on the
contrary, was just where she had been all
those years ago, only more faded, much
less interesting. It was no use attempting
any pretence at familiarity ; she felt that
he was far above lier now.

She got up directly she had finished her
wine, and put on her cloak. Baring had
been standing in front of the fire, looking
at her. She occupied no place in his
thoughts, however. The Mary Reid who
had been a good deal to him long ago, and
the Mary Reid who sat before him now,
were not in the verj^ least associated in
his mind. He had been able to see her
about his wife's room without once feeling
what most men could not have failed to
feel in such a position. He had no
sentimental regrets or reminiscences. The
relationship he had once held to Mary
Reid was only valuable to him as serving
to establish a hold upon her.

*' Good night, Mary," he said suavely,
as he held open the door for her to pass
out. 'you won't forget to write and tell
me all the doctor says, will yoTi ? "

VOL. III. 47

'* Yes, ril write directly," answered the
woman, and a moment later she had
disappeared into the darkness.

** I wonder if she'll think better of it,"
soliloquized Baring, as he went back into
the studio. ''If she does, so much the
safer for me ; and even if she does not, if
what she says is true, it can only be a
question of a few more months' patience."

A ZEALOUS CHAMPION.

Barthelemy had, all unwittingly, done
Stephen Baring almost a service by
accusing him to Mabel. The accusation,*
coming from such a man, presented itself
to her only as an instance of mean envy
and the worst kind of maliciousness. As
she watched Barthelemy that evening
making his usual jokes, seemingly as
light-hearted as ever, her lips curled, and
she found it hard work to answer him
civilly.

When, after what seemed an interminable

evening, she was at length in bed, she
was able to think more clearly over what
had been running in her head ever since
dinner.

Robson had accused Baring of making
away with his wife. Robson, a discharged
servant ! Mabel remembered how Mr.
Baring had always said that Robson had
a bad influence over Connie. Was not
this the very proof of what he had
asserted? If Robson could imagine such
wicked things, what must she not have
told and talked about to Connie ?

It was really too bad. And how had
Barthelemy come to know what Robson
had said ? Through Hubert, Mabel supposed.
She remembered giving Robson
Hubert's address, and very probably
Hubert's evil genius had been sitting with
him, either preventing his working, or

giving him bad advice as usual. Did
Hubert also believe the ridiculous calumny ?
Surely not — surely he had too much good
sense, too much discernment, to lend any
credence to Robson's melodramatic invention.
And what if it should get to Mr.
Baring's ears ? Nothing was safe with
Barthelemy — she was persuaded of that.
Had he not said that Mr. Baring '' professed
to have forgotten " in what part
of Pere-chaise Constance was buried ?•
Either Hubert or Barthelemy had therefore
been questioning him. Mr. Baring had
told her positively that Connie was buried
there, and that any of the officials would
have been able to show Hubert where, if
he had taken the trouble to ask them.

No one knew so well as herself how
deeply Baring had grieved for his young
wife. Even now he could not speak of

her without his voice faltering. They
had not understood each other very well
always, perhaps ; but, then, Constance was
so childish and silly, and Mr. Baring sofar
above her. That he had loved her,
Mabel was sure — as sure as she was that
Constance had loved him as much as she
could ever have loved any one. Was
Barthelemy now to be allowed to lay his
rude, unfeeling hand on Baring's hardly
closed wound ? Not if she could help it.
She was the artist's friend, as she had been
the friend of his dead wife, and she would do
battle for him to the utmost of her power.
Her heart glowed with indignation as
Barthelemy's sarcastic face rose up before
her. No doubt he had hoped to create
doubts of Mr. Baring in her mind. He
should see how mistaken ho was. For
Baring's sake she would do what no other

earthly consideration could have made her
do; she would write to Hubert, and ask
him to come and see her. Then she would
tell him what Barthelemy had said, and
beg him to keep a watch on his friend's
slanderous tongue.

The next morning, accordingly, she
despatched a laconic note to Hubert, asking
him to spare her an hour that very afternoon.
It was easy enough to secure the
privacy of the drawing-room for herself,
as Mrs. Chesham was obliged to remain
a prisoner in her husband's room, while
that amiable invalid took his nap. Mabel
felt that she was doing a very bold thing ;
but friendship demands its sacrifices, and
she was not going to shrink from her duty
because it was hard to perform.

Hubert came punctually at the hour she
had named. He was completely in the

dark as to what she could want of him,
Barthelemy not having thought it necessary
to mention his conversation with her.

Mabel had prepared herself to be as distant
and frigid as possible. This was a
mere matter of business ; she did not went
Hubert to think it anything else.

She began at once, a little nervously —

*' I was very much surprised the other
day by something Monsieur Barthelemy
said to me, Mr. Durant. I don't know if
you are aware that he spoke to me about
it ; but as it concerns your brother-in-law
and yourself, I thought I ought to tell
you."

She paused, fixing her serious eyes on
Hubert's.

He was just thinking what beautiful
eyes they were, but he said —

'' Thank you. It is very good of you.

Barthelemy is a careless fellow. What was
it he said to you ? "

He said," replied Mabel, speaking very
low, and looking down at her lap — " he
said that Eobson was going about accusing
Mr. Baring of having falsely said that
Constance died of cholera — that he had
shut her up, or something of that kind."

Barthelemy had no business to tell
you anything of the sort," said Hubert,
angrily, mentally reserving a good rating*
for his officious friend.

I was quite sure you wouldn't approve
of it," Mabel answered, glancing up at
him. " Such a thing should not be said
lightly ; and of course it would be utterly
absurd to place any reliance on what Robson
says. She is wonderfully good and
faithful, no doubt, but still you know what
servants are."

She says that Baring was unkind to
Connie."

*' I am afraid she managed to make a
good deal of mischief between them," said
Mabel. " She was very jealous of Constance,
and I don't think she was ever
comfortable at Mr. Baring's. You know,
she had always been used to a large establishment,
and she didn't like the change."

Then you don't believe he was unkind
to Connie ? "

"No, indeed I do not," said Mabel,
earnestly. " You know what dear Constance
was — as sweet and lovable as could
be, but still a little childish. You
can understand that with a serious manlike
Mr. Baring, whose whole time and
thoughts are taken up with his work, there
were bound to be difficulties. But I am
sure they loved each other dearly."

I know that Constance was childish,"
acquiesced Hubert, thinking how often his
sister had wounded him by the artless
speeches which sounded so pretty to outsiders
; " but Robson speaks as if Baring
had almost ill-treated her."

*' That, I am sure, is an exaggeration,"
said Mabel. " Monsieur Barthelemy seemed
to think there was some mystery about the
whole affair, but I cannot see where it
lies. Mr. Baring himself told me, just the ,
other day, that any of the officials at Pere-chaise
would have been able to find
Constance's grave for you."

Did he really ? " said Hubert, rather
impressed, and beginning to feel that he
had been foolish to listen to Robson's
stories.

He did, indeed. And the matter could
easily be set at rest at once and for ever

by your going over to Paris yourself, and
seeing the grave."

Yes. That is what I mean to do in a
few days from now."

I am positive you will find it is all
right," said Mabel; "and if I were you,
I would caution Monsieur Barthelemy not
to talk about it. I don't think it is fair
that he should be allowed to go about,
saying such slanderous things. However
far above him Mr. Baring may be, no man
can afford to be so calumniated."

"Mr. Baring is a great friend of yours?"
observed Hubert.

Mabel raised her head, aud looked at
him proudly.

He is," she answered. " And I think
he is a better friend to have than yours."

Meaning Barthelemy ? " asked Hubert,
with a smile.

Yes, I do mean Monsieur Barthelemv.
Why have you made so great a friend of
such a man ? "

For the same reason, I suppose, that
you have made a friend of Mr. Baring,"
returned Hubert.

You surely don't compare the two ? "
said Mabel, hotly.

'* No ; I make no comparisons. But I
know that you have always been unjust to
poor Barthelemy. You passed, very early,
one of those severe judgments of yours
upon him which are as irrevocable as the
laws of the Modes and Persians," said
Hubert, still smiling.

I don't think I did that," Mabel said,
more humbly than she would have spoken
a few months before ; " but I did and do
think him a dangerous friend."

I cannot agree with you," said Hubert.

I fail to see in what Barthelemy has
injured me. I should not have been
here now, very likely, but for him.
Perhaps, though, you count that as the
reverse of a blessing ? "

-' He made you paint those pictures,"
said Mabel, looking down.

Ah, those wicked pictures ! I thought
we should get to them at last," said
Hubert, with a little laugh. "Now,
seriously, Mabel — I mean Miss Durant —
don't you think you made an awful fuss
about them ? "

Mabel looked at him with eyes in which
no light of humour had dawned as yet.

"I always did take your work seriously,"
she answered. " Perhaps it was ridiculous
of me, but I always did."

Ridiculous!" repeated Hubert, warmly.
•'No, that it wasn't. You were always

too kind, and I used to behave myself like
an overgrown baby — complaining and
girding against things as I did. I am
quite aware that those pictures of mine
were not everything they should be — not
all of them, at any rate — from an artistic
point of view. I need scarcely tell you
that I don't intend to continue painting
nothing but that sort of thing ; but still,
don't you think — don't you really think
you were a little hard on me ? "

Yes," said Mabel, almost with a sob.
The word cost her a tremendous effort,
but she had got her chance of being
honest at last, and she was not going to
lose it.

"Thank you," said Hubert, very gently.
You don't know how I have wanted to
hear you say that."

He saw that she was greatly agitated,

and with true consideration began to talk
about something else. She recovered herself
presently, and almost insensibly they
drifted into one of the old confidential
chats. Hubert told her all about the
picture he was going to send in to the
Academy. He made her promise to come
and see it, when at the same time he
would show her the sketches he had made
in Spain.

And your own picture ? I want to
see it," he said.

Oh no, please," Mabel answered, blushing.
" My poor Antigone ! I haven't
looked at it for months."

*' What have you got for this year ? "

Nothing."

'' Nothing ? Oh, what a pity ! What
has become of all the wisdom and perseverance
you used to preach to me ? "

I haven't any of it left," said Mabel,
with a sigh. " It really doesn't seem
worth while for me to go on. I have so
many other things to do, and, after all,
women have never done anything really
great in art."

And is that a reason why no woman
ever should ? It's a woman's reason, if it
is one at all. Do let me see the Antigone,
please."

Thus urged, Mabel had the picture
brought down.

Don't laugh at it," she said.

Laugh at it ! I should think not,
indeed."

Your friend Monsieur Bartheleray did."

Barthelemy is an ass," said Hubert —
'' about some things, at least. This is
very good, you know, very good indeed.
It's a great deal better than plenty of

VOL. III. 48

things / had the impudence to send
m.

I think you only say that to comfort
me," said Mabel, with a shy smile.

"No, that I don't. I wouldn't flatter
you for the world, my — Miss Durant. I
don't say it is faultless. Look here, and
here "

He pointed out the blemishes one by
one. Mabel listened with all her ears.

'' And now," he finished, *' what you
had better do tomorrow morning is to go
up to your studio, and set to work as hard
as ever you can. You'll never become an
artist if you don't paint, you know ; but if
you do paint — why, then, you'll see."

I will begin tomorrow," said Mabel,
with the happiest smile that had lighted
up her face for many a long day.

Just then Mr. and Mrs. Chesham came

into the room, the former breathing stertorously
to mark the delicacy of his
condition, the latter bearing a cushion on
one arm, and a pile of novels on the
other.

"Hallo! what have we here?" demanded
dear George," after shaking hands with
Hubert. " Mabel's organ-grinder ? "

Oh, George dear," protested Mrs.
Chesham.

Never mind, mother," said Mabel, .
brightly. " I don't. That's what your
friend Monsieur Barthelemy said my Creon
was like," she added, with a laughing look
at Hubert.

"Did he? And I dare say he thought he
was very funny," returned Hubert, adding
one more to Barthelemy 's account.

"Oh, of course ; he always thinks he is
funny. And so he is sometimes," said

Mabel, who felt disposed to be generous
just then.

French, French — very French," observed
'' dear George," always ready to
attack an absent friend.

Well, dear, that's not his fault,"
hazarded gentle Mrs. Chesham.

'' Did I say it was his fault ? " asked Mr.
Chesham, tartly. " To assert that a thing
is, is not to assert that it ought not to be,
is it ? "

No, dear, certainly not."

And how are things getting on with
you ? " asked Mr. Chesham, benignantly,
having reduced his wife to silence.

Pretty well, thank you," said Hubert.
** I have plenty of work to do."

'' Ha ! I have often regretted that I did
not take up Art in my youth," sighed Mr.
Chesham.

Or tight-rope dancing," said Mabel,
sotto voce.

I had a very facile touch," continued
the invalid spreading out his fat, soft
white hand and regarding it affectionately ;
but Art, in my young days, was not considered
a gentlemanlike calling. I should
as soon have thought of becoming a Dissenting
minister."

It would probably have paid you a
great deal better," said Hubert, dryly, " and
your facile touch would have come in very
usefully. A good many Dissenting ministers
have a very facile touch."

"But, after all, my wretched health
would have been certain to break down
sooner or later," groaned Mr. Chesham ;
and think what a fearful thing it would
have been had I become the hopeless
invalid I am now just at the very zenith
o£ my fame."

It would indeed," said Hubert, sympathetically.
" Good-bye. I'm afraid I
must go now."

He took leave of Mabel with a look
which set her heart beating wildly. Was

it possible that, after all But she

resolutely thrust back the thought, and if
her cheeks were more softly pink that
evening, and her voice more gay, it was
probably at the thought that tomorrow
she was going to begin work again.

A DECISIVE STEP.

When a week had passed by, and Mr.
Baring had heard no further news of either
Barthelemy or Durant, he began to feel
more comfortable, and congratulated himself
on his wisdom in having taken no
steps himself. He had had a short note
from Mary Reid, saying that as Constance
seemed rather better, she had not yet called
in a doctor, but would do so should there
be any change for the worse. Upon this
statement Mr. Baring put the interpretation
dictated by his own wishes, and

thought complacently that everything was
going on beyond his most sanguine hopes.
He had, of course, always known that he
would be running a serious risk in marrying
Mabel while his wife was still alive,
but he had persuaded himself that Reid
would see that nothing went wrong. He
had never chosen to look far beyond his
marriage with Mabel. It would be time
enough to see to other things when that
was once accomplished. He had unbounded
confidence in the powers of
patience, and, above all, of money. His
opinion was that there was very little on
earth that could not be got for money, and
he was always prepared to pay for his own
pleasures, if not for those of other people.

That Constance should put him out of all
danger by dying just a loropos^ as seemed
likely now, was more than he had ever

dared to hope for. It was too good to be
true. She once dead, even if Barthelemy
did ferret out the deceit he had practised
in averring her death, he could easily
explain matters by asserting that she had
lost her reason, and that he had been
obliged to shut her up, and, wishing to
spare Hubert the pain of learning the
truth, had alleged her decease. No one
could find any fault with him for so doing.
Mary and Jessie Reid could both testify to
her state, and Mrs. Simes would say anything
he chose to tell her about Constance's
conduct while still at home.

Thus plausibly did Mr. Baring argue
for himself, forgetting that unless he could
prove that he had had proper medical
advice, his case would look very black
indeed. But this was just one of the
details that his mind easily slurred over.

He always argued from Lis own unworldly,
circumscribed point of view.

And now the only question was — should
he wait for Constance's death to secure his
prize, or not ? Should he make sure of it,
or should he have a little more patience ?
Was what Barthelemy had hinted about
Mabel's probable engagement true ? If it
were, if there really had been any question
of such a thing, he had no time to lose.
If he were to wait six months even, he
might come too late, and all his work, all
his risk, would have been for nothing.
The idea was insupportable. He had gone
too far to spoil things just at the end.
And what would it matter, even if he
did marry Mabel and she discovered the
truth afterwards ? He could always marry
her again the instant Connie was dead.
Eeid had said it was impossible that she

should live very long, and Eeid was nota
person given to exaggeration. No ; all
things considered, he thought he had
better make the plunge at once. Mabel
must, at all events, promise to marry him.
The engagement could be prolonged fora
while ; long enough, perhaps, to save
him from committing bigamy.

The morning of the day on which he
had decided to try his fate, he came down
to breakfast with so unwontedly cheerful
a countenance that even Mrs. Simes
noticed it.

You look well, Stephen, this morning,"
she remarked.

Baring made an inarticulate sound, and
went on with his meagre scrap of bacon.

^' I have been wanting to ask you something
for a long while, Stephen," ventured
the old woman, after a moment, thinking

that she might as well take advantage of
her nephew's apparently amiable humour.

Well ? " said Baring.

You don't know what a heap of things
there are upstairs of — of your wife's.
Heaps and heaps of dresses, and bonnets,
and all sorts of things ; and they litter up
all the cupboards, and they are such a
nuisance to keep clean. Now, I want to
know what to do with them ? The dresses
are no use to me, else I'd cut them up and
wear them myself. There are enough
to last me for the rest of my life ; but
you know what a wretched little figure
your wife had, and they're all too tight
for me."

Baring smiled sarcastically as his eye
ran over Mrs. Simes's meagre form — you
couldn't call it a figure.

/ don't know what to do with them,"
he said.

But, Stephen, some of them are nearly
new, and worth a good deal. She was
always extravagant in dress. And besides
the clothes, there are quantities of other
things, for she only took a few to Paris.
By-the-by, what did you do with the
things she had with her there ? "

Baring gave a little start. The question
was an unexpected one.

I — I Let me see, what did I do

with them ? " he said, cutting himself a '
huge slice of bread to cover his perturbation.
" Oh, I gave them all to the maid —
what was her name ? "

Reid," answered Mrs. Simes, glancing
ruefully at the loaf. " Oh, Stephen ! you
never went and gave her all those beautiful
silver-backed brushes ? "
Yes, I did."

'' And the silver hand-glass, and the
dressing-bag with all its fittings ?"

"Yes."

'' Well, then," exclaimed Mrs. Simes, " I
call it perfectly sinful of you. Why, they
were worth pounds and pounds ! And the
jewellery she had with her, too ? "

N — no," said Baring, bethinking himself
that it might sound odd if he were to
say he had done this. " I've got all that
myself — somewhere. "

"Well, that's a blessing, at any rate,"
sighed Mrs. Simes. " But now, about
these things upstairs ? "

*" Oh, I don't know ! Do as you like
with them," said Baring, impatiently.

No," returned Mrs. Simes, decisively.
Not unless you've gone through them
first. I'm not going to have you ask for
things in five or six years, and then pull
the house down about my ears, and swear
you never gave them to me."

Ob, well, just as you like," said Baring.
'' I can look over them some time, if you
really care about it."

Wby not to-day, then ? " asked Mrs.
Simes, briskly. " There's no time like the
present, is there ? "

Baring looked disconcerted. He had
only thought to put the old woman off.
But Mrs. Simes was quite excited at the
idea, always sweet to a woman's mind, of
turning out drawers and wardrobes, and ^
urged him so persistently that he saw she
meant to have her own way for once. He
reflected, moreover, that if he married
Mabel, Constance's things would have
to be moved to make room for hers.
He would have to see to it sooner or
later, so it might as well be got over at
once.

Indifferent though he was, however, he

could not repress a little shudder as he
entered the room which had been Connie's,
the threshold of which he had never
crossed since his return from abroad.

It's dark in here ; take care," said Mrs.
Simes, hurrying over to open the shutters.
I keep the shutters closed because of the
bed-hangings. But there's no dirt anywhere
; it's all as clean as a new pin.
Look at it ! "

She triumphantly pointed to the furniture,
carefully covered up to preserve it
from dust.

Baring looked round the room. It was
very different from what it had been in
Constance's days. All her pretty little
nick-nacks had been swept away by Mrs.
Simes's ruthless hand ; the chimney-piece
was bare and dismantled, the carpet was
rolled up in the middle of the floor, and

the pictures and photographs lay in a heap
upon the bed, covered up with old newspapers.


Mrs. Simes threw open a hanging wardrobe,
and waved a lean hand expressively
towards it.

Just look at them ! " she said.
Wouldn't it be a sin and a shame to
leave them like that ? "

There do seem a good many," Baring
said. " But now that I see them, I am
not much wiser as to what to do with
them."

Mrs. Simes unhooked one skirt from
among the rest, and laid it on the bed.
She had gone back for another, when the
maid put in her head and said —

You're wanted, mum. The butcher."

Wait a minute for me, Stephen," said
the old woman, hurrying away. " I can't
VOL. III. 49

let that wicked man go without speaking
to him. His meat was two ounces short
of the weight on the ticket yesterday.

I'll tell him " Her voice died away

in the distance, and Mr. Baring was left
alone.

It was the last place in which he would
have chosen to pass a solitary five minutes.
Disarranged though the room was, every
object in it had been used by Connie, cried
out to him of her. The very air was
faintly redolent of her favourite perfume ;
a pair of little slippers lay forgotten almost
at his feet ; inside the open wardrobe he
could see the different gowns she had worn.

His eye fell upon the dress lying on the
bed ; he recognized it at once. It was the
one Connie had worn to travel in during
their honeymoon ; he remembered her asking
him whether he liked the colour before

it was made. It had suited lier very well.
How pretty she had looked in it, and how
she had wearied him ! He thought of her
vapid remarks, her careless questions, as
she reluctantly accompanied him through
picture-gallery after picture-gallery. How
bored he had been ! How he had longed
for the congenial solitude of his studio
once more !

He had almost accustomed himself to
think of Constance as really dead, and the
feeling grew stronger upon him as he
looked at the things that had belonged to
her. He sat down by the bedside, and
tried to think of what he should say to
Mabel that evening. The incongruity of
his reflections never struck him for a
moment.

Presently Mrs. Simes bustled back.

Have I kept you long ? " she inquired

breathlessly. "The impertinence of those
tradespeople! That wretched butcher
actually stuck to his point, and insisted
that when the meat was sent out, it was
the proper weight ! I believe he thought
Martha had taken it for herself ! "

Look here," said Baring, getting up ;
'^ I've seen enough of these things. Now,
you just take them all away. Clear everything
out. This room may be wanted
again soon."

Are you going to sleep in it ? " asked
Mrs. Simes, opening her old eyes.

Perhaps. I don't know," said Baring.
"• Only take them all away. Don't ever let
me see or hear anything of them again."

Dear me ! " remarked Mrs. Simes, in a
tone of astonishment, looking after her
nephew as he walked away. " One would
actually think that he couldn't bear the

sight of them, but I suppose it's only that
he wants to get back to his painting."

Mr. Baring did not get through much
work that day, however ; he could not
settle to it, and was glad when the time
came to set out for the Cheshams'.

He walked there, as was his custom, but
to-day he started earlier than usual, and
walked very slowly, so as to get over the
time. He wished it were done. Not because
he felt exactly nervous about Mabel's accepting
him — it was not that ; he was
afraid that either Hubert or Barthelemy
might come in, and spoil everything for him.

He found no one in the drawing-room
but Mrs. Chesham.

I am afraid I am rather early ? " he
said, as he shook hands.

Nos no ; it's the others who are late.
Mabel has been out shopping all the afternoon,

and only came in a few minutes ago.
What a lovely day it has been ! "

Has it ? " said Baring, absently ; then,
recollecting himself — " Oh yes, of course,
so it has."

He went up to the fireplace.

'' We shall soon be able to do without
fires now," observed Mrs. Chesham,
laboriously. She always found it difficult
to talk to Mr. Baring.

The artist stood looking at her solemnly.

Will you do me a favour ? " he said
suddenly, just as Mrs. Chesham was going
to remark that the days were beginning to
lengthen now.

^' Oh, certainly, if I can."

I want you to make an opportunity forme
to speak to 3-our daughter alone this
evening," said Baring, very gravely.

The little woman looked up at him in

surprise, and was opening her mouth to
answer, when " dear George " stalked in.

After the flutter which always followed
this important personage's entrance was
over, Mabel's mother began to wonder
what Mr. Baring wanted to say to her
daughter.

*' He surely can't be going to propose to
her ? And yet they have so many tastes
in common. Perhaps she will accept him.
I hope not. I shouldn't like him as a •
son-in-law."

Just then Mabel, all-unconscious of the
hopes and fears of which she was the
object, came in. She was in good spirits
that evening ; even her step-father had no
power to damp her gaiety. She was as
she had been when Baring first knew her,
as she had been — although he did not connect
the two things — until Hubert went

away. She kept the dinner-table, which
otherwise would have remained at one dead
level of dulness, merry with her irresistibly
comical accounts of her shopping
adventures. She possessed the gift of investing
trifles, insignificant enough in
themselves, with a fanciful interest all her
own ; she always knew how to extract the
magic spark of humour from what to
duller eyes appeared the commonplace and
unattractive.

Mr. Baring favoured her several times
with the long intent look of admiration
with which she had grown so familiar as
not to take notice of it any longer, or to
set it down as a harmless idiosyncrasy
easily pardonable to Genius.

Mrs. Chesham, watching her with
anxious maternal eyes, could not satisfactorily
make up her mind as to her

daughter's feelings with regard to Mr.
Baring. The idea that Baring might wish
to marry her was a new one to her. She
was not observant, and was generally
content to wait for her daughter's opinion
on most things, "dear George's" welfare and
requirements, of course, excepted. They
would have differed too much about the
latter.

When the two ladies had made their
way to the drawing-room after dessert,
leaving Mr. Chesham to entertain his guest
as well as he could, Mrs. Chesham took up
a voluminous piece of knitting with which
she was wont to employ her leisure
moments, and into which, like another
kind of tricoteuse, resembling her own
gentle self but little, she had woven many
a wish, many a fear, destined never to
travel further than that elaborate piece of

work. Mabel went to the piano, and began
to play softly.

Mrs. Chesliam knitted to the end of one
row, and then asked herself whether she
should apprise Mabel of Mr. Baring's
request or not. Would it not discompose
her and render her self-conscious if she told
her ? On the other hand, would it not be
better to prepare her, lest she should betaken
by surprise ? She had travelled up
and down four rows, still unable to makeup
her mind, when she heard the diningroom
door open. It was too late !

Dropping her knitting, she ran out of the
room, and caught her spouse on the stairs.

George, dear," she said hurriedly, with
a glance at Baring, who, grave and impassible,
was following his host, '' I — will
you — I want you to come to the study fora
moment."

Will not presently do, my love?" asked
Mr. Chesham, somewhat fretfully. "You
know that going up and down stairs is
exceedingly bad for my heart."

I know it is, dear ; but please come —
it is so very important."

Mr. Chesham turned round with a grunt,
and sulkily preceded his wife into the study.

Now, then, what is this wonderful
affair ? " he asked crossly.

His wife closed the door carefully, anc^
then, sinking into a chair, said mysteriously
—

Mr. Baring is going to propose to
Mabel."

Mr. Chesham gave a start.

Going — to do what ? "

To propose to Mabel. He asked me to
manage to leave them alone."

Mr. Chesham frowned.

Bless the man ! Any one would think
I kept a Matrimonial Agency ! Wasn't it
enough for him to marry that other little
fool out of my house ? "

'* I knew you wouldn't like it," said his
wife, piteously ; " and as for me, I detest
the man."

'^H'm! hm! I don't know," said
George, veering round instantly. "He's
well enough off, and cares for the same
kind of tomfoolery as Mabel ; I am not
sure she could do better."

Baring meanwhile had gone on his way
into the drawing-room.

"What, all alone?" said Mabel, still
softly touching the keys. " Where is my
step-father ? "

Your mother wanted to speak to him,"
said Baring, going over to the piano and
leaning against it.

The room was very dimly lighted by
a heavily shaded lamp, and a candle or two
with crimson shades. Mr. Chesham liked
a subdued light after dinner ; he said it
aided reflection and digestion.

There were two candles at the piano,
which illumined Mabel's beautiful face,
while leaving the rest of her figure in
shadow. A wonderfully serene expression
was on her features, as her fingers lightly
travelled up and down — an expression*
which had long been foreign to them, and
which could only proceed from a feeling of
deep inward peace. She looked at Baring
with a kindly smile as he came near.

Have you been settling the affairs of
the universe ? " she asked gaily.

Mr. Chesham has been talking,"
answered Baring, looking at her with eyes
that gleamed greedily, hungrily, though

there was not enough hight for her to see
their expression.

Mabel laing-hed.

And you have been listening intently,
I suppose." She played on for an instant,
and then, raising a mischievous face, said,
It's very wicked of me to laugh at my
step-father, I know, but just listen to this.
Isn't it exactly like him? "

She played a few bars of a solemn,
pompous kind.

'• That's he standing on the hearth rug ;
now he begins to speak "

A sort of melody here arose in the bassa
hesitating, imperfect melody, which yet
gave the effect of being pretentious and
self-satisfied.

This is he talking about his heart ;

and this But what's the matter ? "

she asked, abruptly ceasing, and bending

forward to look at him. " You are not
even smiling. Do you think it very unkind
of me ? "

No, not at all," said Baring. " I was
not thinking much of what you were
doing, to tell the truth. I was thinking of
something else."

^'That's rude, but honest," said Mabel,
beginning to play again. " Was it
of anything very serious you were
thinking ? "

"Yes, very serious."

May one ask what ? "

"Yes."

What, then ? "

"You."

"Me ! " cried Mabel. " Dear me ! but
I'm not serious. I never felt less so."

What I was thinking about you is
serious. I was wondering if — if "

Well ? " said Mabel, with a bright
smile.

Baring bent over until his face was near
hers, and said in his deepest tone —

If you loved me."

Mabel's eyes opened wide. They
became first surprised, then a little incredulous,
and, lastly, more than a little
proud. Of love there was not the faintest
trace.

Do you love me, Mabel ? Will you
marry me ? " said Baring, his gaze never
faltering for an instant.

Mabel slightly shook her head.

'' I cannot. I am very sorry," she said
in a low voice.

Baring threw back his head, until his
eyes no longer looked straight into hers,
but down at them, with the upper lids a
little depressed.

"You will marry me, won't you —
Mabel ? " he said, speaking so low that she
only just caught the words.

I cannot. . I do not love you," she
murmured.

But you would love me — we have been
such friends," urged the artist, changing
his attitude, and looking at her with
such entreaty that the tears came to her
eyes.

Let us be friends still, but I cannot —
1 really cannot marry you," she said, all
the pride gone out of her face.

Mr. Baring stood erect. His eyes glowed
with baffled desire, his voice shook a little
as he said —

I will not take your answer now. Ina
week I will come again, and then you
shall tell me. I have surprised you, perhaps.
But I can wait."

VOL. III. - 50

THE ACADEMICIAN.

But, Mr. Baring " objected Mabel.

But she spoke to the empty air. The
artist was gone, and in another minute
she heard the front door slam after him.

CHAPTER XL

"I WAS A SILLY GIRL."

Barthelemy was intensely disgusted when
he found that Hubert had gone over to
Mabel's side, and that he was now quite
assured that Baring had had no hand in
his wife's death.

What on earth can Miss Moore know
about it ? " he argued.

"Quite as much as Robson, at any rate.
Robson sees everything through prejudiced
eyes. She dislikes Baring so much that
she would suspect him of anything. It is
quite natural, you know, that an old family

servant like Robson should resent being
treated as if you lead got her from a
registry office yesterday, and I expect that
is how Baring did treat lier. Now, Ma —
Miss Moore had no prejudices to start
with "

Oh yes, she had," interrupted Bar-thereby.
'she had the prejudices in favour
of Baring that every pretty woman has in
favour of any man who admires her."

Nonsense. There you are again with
that same old rubbish of yours. Do you
think that admiration always completely
turns a woman's head ? "

It may not always do that, but it certainly
inclines her to invest her admirers
with all sorts of virtues they don't possess."

Oh, well," said Hubert, abandoning
argument, which he knew of old was
perfectly useless with Barthelemy, "that

may be as you like. It has nothing to do
with Miss Moore's opinion of Baring.
Women have a very keen insight into
these matters, and she has seen more of
him than either Eobson, or you, or myself
If she says he is all right, he is, I am sure
of that."

And you will take no further steps to
find out whether his story is correct ? "

Oh yes, I shall. When I go to Paris ,
next week, I shall go to Pere-chaise,
more as a duty than because I doubt that
my sister's grave is there. Oh, it's ridiculous,
Barthelemy ! Men don't do that kind
of thing in the nineteenth century ! "

''* I'm not sure," observed Barthelemy,
reflectively, " that Mr. Baring belongs to
any particular century. I think we have
heard of him before in almost every age."

I don't understand him, and don't

profess to, but I believe in Miss Moore's
intuition, and I want these absurd suspicions
buried and done with. You will
really do me a favour, old boy, if you will
let the matter drop now."

Barthelemy shrugged his shoulders, and
said no more, but he retained his own
opinion nevertheless.

Meanwhile Mabel was feeling very unhappy.
She had been utterly surprised
by Baring's proposal. After he had gone,
she had run up to her own room, where
she had locked herself in. She could not
bear to meet either Mr. Chesham's sarcastic
comments or her mother's anxious eyes.
She wanted to be alone and think.

It had always been a theory of hers
that a girl is very much to blame who
allows a man to propose to her when she
does not intend to accept him. She hind

loved her. Had not his voice trembled ashe
spoke to her ? Had she not felt that he
was in deep earnest ? Was it her fault ?
Had lie encouraged him — made him think
that she loved him ?

She cared for him so much that the
thought of his pain, his disappointment,
was very bitter to her. He was her hero,
her ideal. There was nothing on earth
she would not do for him — except marry
him. She could not marry him, she could
never love him with that love ; her heart

belonged to Hubert. And Hubert

No, never mind that ; she had no right to
think of that, even all by herself.

She wished Baring had taken his answer,
and had not said he would come again for
it. If she could have had an unkind
thought of him, as she used to long ago
when she first knew him, she would have

considered it rather bad taste on this part.
Surely one " No " should be enough ! But,
then, Mr. Baring was not like other men,
and she had liked him all the better because
he was not. It would not be pleasant
to have to see him, and tell him over again
that she could not marry him, but it would
perhaps be cowardly and unkind to refuse ;
so she would go through with it, disagreeable
though it would be.

After an hour or two, her mother tapped
at the door. Mabel opened it.

What I Still up, my child ? I thought
you had gone to bed."

Sit down, mother," said Mabel, putting
her mother into the low basket-chair in
which she had herself been sitting, and
seating herself on the ground beside her.

Mrs. Ohesham drew the dark chestnut
head on to her lap, and stroked it fondly.

"How suddenly both Mr. Baring and
you disappeared ! " she said.

Yes, mother. He went away, and —
and, mother, do you know what he said
to me ? "

I can guess, my darling."

Oh, mother, can you ? Then — was it
so very plain, so evident, that he ? "

No, my child," replied Mrs. Chesham,
frankly ; " it had never even occurred tome
as possible. But he asked me to leave
him alone with you this evening, and I
knew what that meant, of course."

Mother, you don't think it was my
fault, do you ? "

Your fault, darling ? What do you
mean ? "

I never thought he loved me. I never
did anything to make him think I loved
him — did I, mother ? "

Do you love him, dear ? "

No, no. I care for him very much ;
I honour and respect him ; I think him
one of the best and bravest men I have
ever known ; but love him — no."

Mrs. Chesham breathed a sigh, almost
of relief.

I can't be sorry, my darling," she said,
her loving hand still travelling to and fro
over MabeFs hair. " I shouldn't like you .
to marry Mr. Baring."

He is far too good for me," said Mabel,
firing up in defence of her hero.

Mrs. Chesham hesitated.

I know you have a very high opinion
of Mr. Baring, dear, and I know that other
people have too, but somehow I never feel
that I really like him."

He is very reserved, of course," began
Mabel. But she was interrupted by her

t^tep-futhur's fretful voice calling for his
wife, and Mrs. Chesham hurried away.

The next afternoon, Mabel was at work
in her little studio, upon a sketch for a
new picture, when the parlour-maid
announced that Mr. Durant was in the
drawing-room.

Have you told Mrs. Chesham ? " asked
Mabel, the colour deepening in her cheek.

No, Miss Mabel. Mr. Chesham's asleep
in his study, and I aren't knock at the
door. Besides, Mr. Durant asked particular
for you," answered the girl.

I'll be down in a minute," said Mabel.

The rosy flush had not died away
when she entered the room and greeted
Hubert.

I hope I've not disturbed you," he said.
I came to bring your mother the
sketches she asked me for the other day."

Thank you ; she will be glad to have
them. May I look at them ? "

Hubert spread them out, and Mabel
came up to the table and turned them
over.

How pretty they are ! What lovely
places ! Oh, what a beautiful face ! "

*' Yes, a Spanish gipsy."

She looks more than a gipsy, somehow."


That's what she was, however. Yes,
she looks poetical enough, even in that
hasty sketch."

How dull and commonplace everything
must have seemed to you when you got
back to England again ! " said Mabel.

No — not everything," returned Hubert,
quietly.

Well, not Monsieur Barthelemy, of
course," she said, with a laugh. " I cannot

imagine Mm either dull or commonplace."


"No, he is neither — though I didn't
mean him."

Have you seen Eobson again ? " asked
Mabel.

"No. She is to come to me when I
have got a house."

Have you been looking for one yet ? '*
No."

When are you going to begin ? "
I am not sure," said Hubert. " Sometimes
I think it will be a great weight on
one's hands ; and yet I do so pine for a
front door that is my very own, and a
passage that does not serve as a menu to
one's nose. I believe my landlady, good
woman as she is, lives upon nothing but
onions, and there is some one else. in the
house who has a passion for cabbage."

"Not a very pleasant mixture," said
Mabel.

No. Perhaps it might inspire one to
perpetrate one of those pictures, you know,
with a woman peeling potatoes — we might
make it onions in this case — at a deal table,
with some cabbages on it, some potato
parings on the floor, and an earthenware
pan or two in one corner ; but for high
art — no."

Then are you going in for high art ? "
asked Mabel, slily.

"Perhaps. Have you been doing anything
since I last saw you ? "

I have been getting my things in
order," said Mabel. " I had neglected ray
painting for so long, that my room was ina
dreadful condition."

Was it ? " Hubert took a flower from
a vase which stood near him, and appeared

for a moment immensely interested
in its construction ; then he suddenly
looked up, and said abruptly, " Do you
remember that day, a little while before I
went away — the day I came here to ask
you a question ? "

Mabel bowed her head. She could not
have spoken.

How very unkind you were to me that
day ! And how surprised I was, because
I was so sure — so sure you loved me, as I
had loved you for years past."

He stopped. Mabel's heart beat wildly.
She felt that she must speak, but the words
would not come.

I have often wondered since," Hubert
went on, without looking at her, " if there
was any other reason. It could surely
not have been simply and merely because
I had been unfortunate enough to paint

something which displeased you. People
who love each other don't turn their
backs upon each other for such reasons as
those."

Yes, they do," said Mabel, in a choked
voice — " when they are silly girls."

Hubert looked up quickly.

Were you a silly girl ? " he asked
eagerly.

I was," said Mabel, with a grave nod
of her head ; " and I have been unhappy
enough since."

Then ? "

Yes "

And so, without more words, their two
lives came together at last.

VOL. III. 51

DISCOVERY.

An hour later, on that same blissful afternoon,
Hubert's and Mabel's tete-tete was
rudely broken in upon. First they heard
a tremendous ring at the bell.

It sounds like a telegraph-boy," said
Mabel.

More likely a circular," returned
Hubert.

Dr. Lockyer' announced the maid ;
and Hubert's cousin, whom Mabel had
seen once before, when he came to call
upon Constance, was ushered into the
room.

He was very pale — white to the lips —
and seemed in a state of intense excitement.
He made straight for Hubert, and,
catching hold of his arm, said huskily —

I hoped I should find you. Your
French friend at your lodgings told me
you had gone here. You must come with
me at once. I have found Constance ! "

Found Constance ? " echoed Hubert
and Mabel in one breath.

Yes. She is not dead. That villain
has been hiding her away — all these
months. To think of them ! And I so
near her ! "

He spoke almost incoherently, his voice
shaking with the vehemence of his
emotion.

Mabel and Hubert looked at one another.
Mabel had grown white, and was trembling
all over.

"' I'll come directly," said Hubert, " and
you can explain as we go."

I must come too, Hubert," Mabel said.
My poor Connie ! You'll let me come,
Dr. Lockyer, won't you ? "

I shall be very glad if you will,"
returned Harry. " She asked for you."

Mabel went away to get on her things,
saying she would be back in a moment.

Sit down, Harry," said Hubert, gently,
impelling his cousin into a chair, " and
tell me about it. It seems too horrible to
be real."

The young doctor pulled himself together,
and steadied his voice.

It was only about two hours ago," he
said, vaguely glancing towards the clock
on the chimney-piece, " that a girl came
round to my place, and asked me to come
as quickly as possible to some one — her

cousin ' she called her — very ill close by.
I was just going out, so I had nothing todo
but to accompany her. On the way
she told me her ' cousin ' was staying with
her sister and herself, and had been ill for
some time, but not bad enough to see a
doctor. To-day, however, she had gone
off into a sudden faint, and they could not
bring her to, and had become alarmed
about her. We got to the house — a very
decent looking one — and the sister the girl
had spoken of met me in the passage.
She seemed curiously upset, I thought —
kept clasping one hand over the other, and
never looked me in the face. She took
me into a room, and proceeded to inform
me, in a very embarrassed and awkward
manner, that her ' cousin ' was at times
not quite herself; that she had strange
delusions — had had a great disappointment,

from which she had never recovered ; and
that she was a source of great anxiety to
them. After this explanation she led the
way upstairs into a bedroom, and there, on
the bed, unconscious, I saw — her ! "

His voice broke again, and he wiped
his brow, on which the perspiration was
standing.

What did you do ? " asked Hubert, ina
low voice.

'' Luckily the woman crossed to the
window to draw up the blind, and did not
see me, or probably she would have noticed
that something was wrong. I did what
I could for her, and the instant I saw that
she was coming to herself, I got the woman
out of the room on the pretence of fetching
something or other. She — she opened her
eyes — and saw me."

Did she know you ? " said Hubert.

Yes, she knew me. I had just time

to warn her not to seem to recognize me,

when the woman came back. Constance

had closed her eyes again, and she saw no

change in her. I got her away again

presently, and then Constance told me, as

well as she could — but she was very weak

how it had been. The woman was the

maid that came to her after Eobson was

sent away, and must be a creature of

•
Baring's. She came back with her from

Paris, and took her straight to this house,

where she has been kept a close prisoner

ever since. The woman told her that

Baring said she, Connie, was mad, and

had instructed her to put her into a

lunatic asylum, but that she, having pity

on her, had kept her in her own house

instead, giving Baring to understand that

she had done as he wanted. How much

of that is true remains to be found out.
Of course he could not have wanted the
woman to do that. I suppose that she
concocted the story to frighten Connie."

But could she never have let any of
us know ? " said Mabel, who had come
back during Harry's recital, and down
whose cheeks the tears were flowing fast.

That's just it. She was too frightened,
lest Baring should get hold of her. She
says she saw me once from the window,
and tried to call out to me, but the woman
Reid, as she calls her — found her, and
pulled her back into the room."

'^ What a diabolical scheme ! " said
Hubert, slowly.

And what could be the motive ?
That's what I can't understand."

As Harry spoke the words, the meaning
of it all came like a flash to Mabel, and if

anything could have made it worse, it
was that she herself, however innocently,
had contributed to poor Connie's sufferings.


Come, let us go," said Hubert, impatiently.


I've sent for a four-wheeler," answered
Mabel ; " it is waiting at the door. Had
I better take anything for Constance, Dr.
Lockyer ? We shall bring her back hereof
course."

"Yes, that will be best' said Harry.
Only — I must prepare you for the worst ;
she is very ill — very ill indeed."

His tone said more than his words.

You don't mean there is any danger ? "
asked Mabel, with a shocked look.

Harry only made a gesture, which
answered the question plainly enough.

I must just tell mother, so that she

may have things ready," said Mabel, trying
hard to control her tears.

They all three went downstairs, and
Mabel, leaving the others in the hall,
knocked at the study door.

Mrs. Chesham appeared, with her finger
to her lip.

*' What is it, dear ? Hush ! George is
asleep."

Mabel drew her' into the dining-room,
and there, as quietly as she could, told her
the news.

Ten minutes elapsed before she came out
to the two young men, who were waiting
impatiently.

I'm very sorry to have been so long,"
she said, '' but mother was dreadfully
upset, and I couldn't leave her before she
had got a little better. I'm quite ready
now."

The drive was a long and silent one.
They were all absorbed in their own reflections.
Hubert's mind was divided between
sorrow for his sister and bitter thoughts
of vengeance against her husband. Harry
was sadly musing on his love's changed
face, and angrily accusing the irony of
Fate which had allowed him to be within
a stone's-throw, and never know or feel her
distress. Mabel was conscious that all she
had honoured was overthrown ; that her
idol had feet of clay ; but, above all, that
her friend, her lover's sister, upon whose
weakness, in the pride of her own strong
nature, she had somewhat looked down,
'was lying hopelessly ill — sacrificed because
of her.

When they were nearly at the house
Harry spoke.

The two women will be taken by surprise,

for they have no idea that I know
who Connie is. I told her to keep perfectly
still, and say nothing, and to them I
merely said I should look in again in the
course of the day."

Do you suppose they will make any
difficulty about letting her go ? " asked
Mabel.

^'They had better not!" said Hubert
between his clenched teeth.

They will probably be awfully frightened,"
said Harry, " and will be only too
thankful if we don't seem inclined to make
things disagreeable for them — and for
Constance's sake, you know, Hubert, " he
added, with a glance at the other's gloomy
face, " we must not do that."

"But we are going to do something,"
said Hubert. " Not one of them shall
escape scot-free."

My dear fellow," said Harry, persuasively,
" there will be plenty of time to
see to that presently. Just now Constance
must be our only care, and she will need
all the care we can give her," he finished
sadly.

The cab now drew up at Mary Reid's
house, and they got out.

You go straight upstairs to the front
room on the first floor," Harry said to
Mabel. " You will find Constance there.
Gret her ready to go. Never mind dressing
her, only wrap her up warmly. Meanwhile
we will see to the women."

The door was opened by Mary Reid,
who, on seeing the doctor accompanied by
two strangers turned ghastly white, and
would have shut it in their faces, had not
Harry interposed.

We will all come in, if you please," he

said, holding the door in a grip which
Miss Reid would have found it difficult to
loosen.

She fell back against the wall, and
glared at them with an angry, frightened
face, which, had any proof been needed,
would have sufficiently betrayed an uneasy
conscience.

They went in, and Harry shut the door
and nodded to Mabel, who immediately
began to mount the staircase.

Where are you going ? " cried Miss
Reid, in a shrill, shaking voice. " My
cousin's too ill to see any one."

Come," said Hubert, sternly, " you can
drop that. We know all about it. I am
Mrs. Baring's brother, and that lady is
Miss Moore."

Mary's face became, if possible, a shade
more livid, and she put her hand to her

side. She made an effort, however, to
brazen it out.

This is a nice sort of thing to do ! "
she remarked, defiantly looking at Harry,
A pretty sort of doctor you are, upon my
word ! Called in to a relation of my own,
and then goes and brings a couple of
strangers — or lunatics, from what I can
see of 'em — to insult me in my own house.
I'll have the law of you, that I will."

Her eye faltered before she came to the
end of her sentence, however, and her
hands moved restlessly.

Now, look here," said Harry, opening
the little parlour door ; " you come in here,
and make a clean breast of it. We won't
be hard on you, for we know you've only
been a tool in a bad man's hands, but you
must tell us the truth."

Mary Reid sullenly followed them in.

refused to sit down, and stood bolt upright,
with her eyes fixed on the opposite wall.

Now, first, of course you acknowledge
that you know the lady upstairs to be Mrs.
Baring ? " began Harry.

Do you mean my cousin ? " asked Miss
Reid, affecting astonishment.

What's the use of persisting in that ? "
said Harry. " You won't do yourself any
good, you know."

Miss Reid said not a word, but kept her
eyes doggedly fixed on the wall.

You were engaged as Mrs. Baring's
maid," said Harry.

Miss Reid lowered her eyes, rested them
upon Harry's face for one instant, her eyebrows
very much raised, and then sought
the wall-paper again with an air of indifferent
scorn.

What's the use of questioning her ? "

said Hubert, impatiently. *' She's evidently
made up her mind not to tell the truth."

Well," said Harry, *' of course she
knows what she's rendering herself
liable to."

If Miss Reid knew, it was more than
Harry did, but he deemed it best to
threaten a little.

Mary Reid's eyebrows contracted quickly
at this speech. She opened her dry lips,
and for a moment the two men thought
she was going to answer. Her mouth
closed again, however, and a mule-like,
obstinate look overspread her face.

It's no use," said Hubert, " and it
cannot matter. You have all the truth
from Connie's own lips."

Miss Reid darted a malignant look at
Harry, and was heard to mutter something
undistinguishable.

VOL. m. 52

At this moment the door opened, and
Mabel appeared, supporting a thin, wasted
figure — the ghost of Hubert's once bright
and sunny little sister.

Connie glanced quickly from one to
another, and holding up her face to Hubert,
who had sprung forward, she said, with a
plaintive little smile —

I'm not dead, you see, Hubie."

She was panting a little, and they put
her into a chair to rest before taking her
out to the cab.

Reid had started when her victim came
in, and the bold, hard eyes were lowered
now.

Connie had a bad fit of coughing, which
shook her slight, emaciated frame to a
degree painful to see.

When she was quiet again she looked in
the three pitiful faces round her, and

laughed — the shadow of her old careless
aught.

You needn't look so solemn ; I shall be
)better soon — with such a famous doctor,
,00," smiling at Harry.

Then she looked at Eeid.

What is she doing here ? " she asked.
'You haven't been scolding her, have you?
)h, you mustn't do that, because, you
:now, she has been very good to me. If
fc hadn't been for her, I might have

been " she shuddered ; " and if she

^as mistaken in thinking I had better not
3t any of you know, she did it for the
est, I am sure — didn't you, Reid ? "

As the gentle voice ceased, Mary Reid
raised her head, and looked at her judges
th imploring eyes.

Don't tell her," she whispered ; and
either Hubert nor Hairy had the heart to
deceive Connie.

I can come now," said Constance, " if
you will help me a little. Dear Mabel,"
fondly touching Mabel's cheek, " how nice
it is to have you again! Good-bye, Eeid.
Thank you for all you have done for me ;
I am afraid I have given you a great deal
of trouble."

She held out her hand to the woman.

Reid tremblingly put her cold hand into
Connie's poor transparent one, and as she
did so, a tear rolled down her white cheek
and fell on their clasped fingers. She
turned away with a stifled sob.

'' There is a favour I want to ask Reid,"
Connie said, looking at Hubert. " I want
her to promise me that she will not — will
not let — my — Mr. Baring know that I have
left her house — not, at any rate, until I give
her leave to do so. I shall be better soon,
you know, and then I could bear the

thought of it more easily. But not till
then. Will you promise, Reid ? "

"Yes, ma'am," said the woman, very
low.

Then that's all right," said Connie,
almost in her own gay tone, " and we are
all ready to go. I said good-bye to Jessie
upstairs."

Feebly, supported by Hubert on one side,
and by Mabel on the other, she walked
down the garden path, Harry walking
behind, alone.

When she was in the cab, with Mabel's
arm round her to save her from the jolting,
she leaned forward, and, pointing to the
house with a smile, said —

That's the window from which I saw
you, Harry, and which you passed by with
never a look, sir."

Her excitement had kept her up hitherto.

but as they drove along she grew greatly
exhausted, and when they arrived at
Mabel's home, she had to be lifted out and
carried into the house.

Mrs. Chesham received her with a
flood of motherliness which soothed and
made her feel safe at once.

How glad I am to come to you ! I
have so wanted you and Mabel," she said
lovingly.

Mr. Chesham had been apprised of the
news by his wife, and was in a state of
exceeding discomposure.

Constance having been carried upstairs,
the two young men returned to the ,
where they found him walking
up and down with his hand to his heart.

Shocking ! shocking ! " he was exclaiming
to BartheJemy, who was standing
on the hearth rug. *'I tell you, my dear

sir, the depravity of man is something
astounding. Not that I am astonished in
this instance — far from it. I always regarded
Baring with disfavour — I may
almost say with suspicion — from the first.
I was very much against the marriage —
very much, as Mrs. Chesham can tell you.
And when I think that that rascal — that
infernal villain — had the audacity, the
impertinence, only last evening to propose
to my own step-daughter "

What ? " exclaimed Hubert and Harry
in one breath.

Barthelemy gave a little smile.

Yes, to propose to Miss Moore ! To
ask her hand in marriage, sir I To want
to make her the wife of a bigamist ! It's
too monstrous ! Of course, she refused
him. But if she had not, they must have
married without my consent. I've borne

THE ACADEMICIAN.

his dining here, night after night, boring
me, and making me sleepless with his
ridiculous Art chatter. That was bad
enough ; but have him for a stepson-inlaw
no, never ! "

The young men looked at one another
in silence. They knew Baring's motive
now.

ANSWERED.

Nearly a week later, Stephen Baring satin
his studio, waiting until it should be
time to go up to the Cheshams'. He had
augured well from Mabel's silence. Had
she intended definitely to refuse him, he
thought, she would have written to him,
to confirm what she had said. He felt
quite sure now that she did not intend to
refuse him, and he congratulated himself
on his skilful diplomacy in beating a retreat,
as he had done, before the possibility
of return was closed to him.

The gay spring sun shone into the studio
from a side window, ilhiraining the glories
of drapery and rich hangings, shining on
Mr. Baring's easel, and on Mr. Baring
himself, as he sat on the arm of a carved
oak chair, smoking his pipe.

With a peevish exclamation the artist
drew down the blind. He did not care
for being dazzled by sunlight. He slowly
and carefully filled his pipe, glancing at
his easel while he did so. The subject of
the picture upon it was one which has been
painted over and over again — our Saviour
defending the woman taken in adultery.
There was merely an oval blank at present
where the woman's face was to come, but
the other figures were almost completed.
Mr. Baring had found it difficult to get a
satisfactory model for the central figure.
He had tried several, but had been forced to

give them up. He was rather despairing,
when it suddenly occurred to him to use
his own features. Why not his as well as
another's ? He could alter them so that
no one would be able to recognize them,
and yet make use of them sufficiently to
help himself out of his difficulty.

This solution had only suggested itself
to him the day before, but already he had
made good progress with his work ! The
figure which filled the centre of the group
a figure with a merciful right hand
stretched out towards the bending, guilty
form near it — bore the lineaments of
Stephen Baring. Later on, no doubt, the
difference of the colouring and expression
would materially disguise the likeness, but
at this stage there was no mistaking it.
And Stephen Baring sat before it, and
calmly and critically regarded it — no sense

of the awful irony of his work in his
mind.

Presently he took up his brush and
began to paint.

"I wonder how Constance is?" he thought.
*' I have heard nothing of her since Mary
wrote to say she was better. I dare say
she's all right. Perhaps Mary only wanted
to frighten me, to get more money. I
expect in a day or two she'll write and ask
for more. It's a great pity one has to
trust some one else, instead of getting one's
affairs done by one's self. Still, Mary is
trustworthy ; I don't believe she'd ever
betray me."

He stepped back a pace or two to look at
what he had done, then took out his watch.

How slowly the time passes to-day !
I shall be glad when all this is over, and
I am settled again. It isn't often that

anything comes between me and my work.
Well, one thing, at all events, is certain :
Mabel will never upset and worry me as
Constance did. What a little fool that
girl was ! How eternally she used to come
in with her * Stephen, Mrs. Simes says,'
or, ' Stephen, I want ' ! I used to be sick
of the sight of her ! But she didn't gain
much by it."

He smiled a sneering, cruel smile. Just
then he gave a look at himself in the large
swinging glass beside him, which he was
using to reflect his face. He had to wait
a moment, and compose his features into
a grave, tender look before he could goon
with his painting.

"Mabel will be very different. She
understands what an artist's work is, and
won't expect me to be at her beck and call
every minute. I should never have married

the other at all without Aunt Simes —
stupid old creature ! Her time will be
short, too ; for Mabel can keep house as
well as she can, I'm sure, and it's no use
keeping two where one is plenty. And
how pretty — how much more than pretty
she is ! "

All this time he kept looking from his
canvas to his own reflection in the glass.
His thoughts interfered with his work,
for their tenour was triumphant, and
triumph was not the expression he wished
to paint. He grew weary at length of
the struggle to keep his features as they
should be, threw down his brush, and refilled
his pipe. Then, just to pass the
time, he went and fetched out Constance's
and Mabel's heads from the corner in which
they reposed, put them on an easel, and
sat down in front of them.

How utterly different they are ! " he
thought, with a sardonic twist of the lip.
How wanting in everything the one —
in spite of that golden hair, and those
germander blue eyes, that smile and
sparkle and say nothing. Did Constance
ever say one word worth listening to ?
Never. But the other, with those dark
eyes which say so much, or at least seem
to say so much ! She will be a wife, nota
child. She will be able to look after
her own affairs, not want some one else to
guide her as though she were a baby.
Ah, Mabel ! soon you will be mine — mine !
And afterwards ? Well, afterwards can take
care of itself I needn't trouble about that."

He rose from his seat, and, putting his
hands behind him, paced up and down the
room.

How patient I have been ! How long

I have waited ! How much I have longed
for her ! But I am near getting her now.
I waited for recognition from the Academy
long enough ; but it came in time, and
so will she. I shall have got what I
wanted at last! How poor I used to be
in those first days of waiting! It was
cocoa and bread, bread and cocoa, until one
was weary. Portraits at five shillings a
head are not a lively source of income.
But I worried through. And so I have
through this. It has been longing and
longing, until I wonder that my patience
held out, and that I did not speak long
before. But I was wise, and didn't, and
I shall have my reward."

He took Constance's portrait down, and
carried it into a small closet off the studio,
where he buried it beneath a mass of
dusty canvases.

There, you are done with for ever !
But you," looking at Mabel's head, where
it smiled at him from the easel — "you shall
stay there until I come back ; and when
I come back, you will be mine — mine more
really than ever before."

He ate his one-o'clock dinner — for they
had returned to their old primitive hours —
in saturnine silence, which Mrs. Simes
vainly endeavoured to cheer. The poor
old lady chose a most inopportune moment
for imparting to him a piece of intelligence
which she herself deemed particularly
interesting.

You remember all those dresses and
things of your wife's that you said I could
have, Stephen ? "

Mr. Baring muttered something.

'you haven't forgotten that you gave
them to me, I hope?" said Mrs. Simes,

VOL. III. 53

tartly. *' You know I wanted you to look
them all through yourself first, but you
refused, and said I could do as I liked with
them. Do you remember, or do you not,
Stephen ? "

I remember," returned Baring, crossly ;
what do you want to bother me about
them again for ? "

I don't want to bother you, I'm sure,"
said Mrs. Simes, in an aggrieved tone ; " I
was only going to tell you what I had
done with them."

Baring made a gesture signifying that
what Mrs. Simes had done was perfectly
indifferent to him.

I sold 'em, every one," said the old
lady, taking no notice of her nephew's
discouraging behaviour. " Ah, and I got
a good price for them, too. I should have
had to ask you for some money to buy

kitchen things with, for the saucepans
were in holes, and there wasn't a sieve
in the place, let alone a clothes-horse.
But with the money I got for those things
I bought everything I wanted — every
single thing, and have got some left in
hand, too. Wasn't that better than leaving
them to rot upstairs, eh ? But you
never notice anything one does for you.
I don't believe you've even ever seen that
we've got a new teapot ; and that came out
of that same money, too. Now, have you
noticed the new teapot, Stephen ? "

"No, I haven't," answered the artist,
shortly.

There — just as I said. And such a
beauty, too ! Even your poor wife, ridiculous
as she was about such things, couldn't
have found any fault with it. It did seem
a sin and a shame to have to pay so much

for such things ; but still it's only for once
in a way, and, anyhow, it don't seem so
bad as if the money had come out of one's
pocket. It is all to the good, isn't it ? "

If the old lady had expected her nephew
to show any enthusiasm for her provident
ways, she was mistaken. His aunt's conversation,
never acceptable to Baring,
bored him to-day past all endurance, and
only strengthened his resolution to rid
himself permanently of her as soon as
possible.

After dressings himself somewhat more
carefully than was his wont, Mr. Baring
at length set out for the Cheshams'. He
was still early, so he turned into Hyde
Park to fill the time. The season was in
full swing, and Mr. Baring, to whom such
a sight was almost as strangely new as if
he had lived in the wilds of Scotland all his

life, gazed in astonishment at the slowly
moving string of carriages, and at the
crowd of people, both walking and sitting
down, who lined the side walks. He had
never before seen the Ladies' Mile in the
height of the season.

He sat down beside a very pretty girl,
whom he glanced at furtively every now
and then.

By Jove ! what a lovely face! Who is
she, I wonder ? I wish I could get her to
sit to me."

Presently one of his colleagues approached.
He espied Baring, and made
for him with an exclamation of surprise.

'' What, you here. Baring ? I thought
you were never seen outside your studio ! "

The girl next Baring turned her head,
and looked at him with interest, then
whispered to the middle-aged lady beside

her, who in her turn favoured him with an
inquisitive stare.

After a few words, the other Academician
passed on. Baring waited a little longer,
and then, judging that Mabel would have
returned from her afternoon walk, he rose
and made his way out of the Park.

He reached his destination, and was
shown upstairs. The drawing-room was
sweet with the perfume of flowers, and the
blinds, presumably to keep out the sun,
were drawn down, rendering the room half
dark.

Baring sat down. Mabel was somewhat
long in coming, and the heavy scent of the
flowers was beginning to make him quite
drowsy, when at length the door opened
and she appeared.

He sprang up and offered his hand, but
she was holding her handkerchief in hers,
and did not appear to notice it.

I have come, yon see," said Baring, in
low, impassioned tones ; "I have come for
my answer."

He saw that her face was very pale, as
she stood close to the door, which she had
left open behind her ; but that must be the
darkened room, he thought.

"Do you mind coming upstairs for a
moment ? " she said very low.

Baring, surprised, but thinking that
perhaps she wished to take him to her
own little studio, signified his assent, and
followed her upstairs.

He was prepared to mount two flights,
but Mabel stopped at the floor above the
drawing-room.

Have you got a new picture to show
me ? " asked the artist, lightly, feeling considerably
mystified.

Mabel turned and looked at him, as she
laid her hand on the fastening of the door.

Yes. A new picture," she said very
gravely, and passed into the room, Baring
following her.

This room was dark also, like the
drawing-room, but there was sufficient
light for the picture Mr. Baring had come
to see.

On the bed, her pale hands resting on
the sheet that covered her, lay Constance,
Stephen Baring's wife. It was the same
face he had looked at so slightingly that
morning ; the hair was as golden as ever,
only the blue eyes were closed, and the
colour had fled the smiling lips. In all the
quiet majesty of Death, she lay, a dumb
reproach to the man who stood beside her.

Stephen Baring saw — and understood.
The blood left his face, until it was almost
as deathly white as the waxen features
before him. He looked at his dead wife.

and his heart beat with loud, quick thumps
against his breast. He raised his eyes,
and met those of the girl he had meant to
ruin, who stood on the other side of the
bed, opposite him. Mabel's eyes bore a
look of mingled scorn and deep and
sorrowful reproach, which, callous as he
was, would haunt him to his dying day.
Slowly his own fell, until they rested for
one brief second on the peaceful face
between himself and Mabel; then, with
set, grim features, he turned and left the
house.

Stephen Baring had his Answer.

THE END.

PRINTED BY WILLIAM CLOWES AND SONS, LIMITED,

LONDON AND Eccles. G.^C. Ss' Co.

3 0112 045830038

t

mm

J ':V.
