OF THE
U N I VERS City
Of alli Noise

y.l

r 4



OR,

THE OUTLAW OF WENTWORTH WASTE.

VOL. I.

OR,

THE OUTLAW OF WENTWOETH WASTE.

By HENRY ESMOND,

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. I.

JLonBott :

MOXON, SAUNDERS, AND CO.,

22, HENRIETTA STREET, CO VENT GARDEN, W.C.

1880.

[All rights reserved']

A LIFE'S HAZARD;

U) OR,

^ THE OUTLAW OF Wentworth WASTE.

CHAPTER I.

In the year 18 — there dwelt in Swords
cO (which lies north of Dublin) a man of
whom the antiquated villagers surmised
v much but knew little.

The subject of all this ambiguous

jj thought was one of fine symmetrical

^ proportions, broad-shouldered and 

constrained in gait, while his bronzed,

-Mong-bearded face — despite its plaintive

expression — wore an easy appearance of

benevolent confidence that never comes by

accident. His age was thirty-three years,

5 , but he looked considerably older.

VOL. I. 1

Letters for Harcourt Russell, Esq., were
punctually called for every morning, and
deferentially tendered to him by the comely
wife of the local postmaster ; other than
which there was no clue to the " strange
gentleman," as he was usually called.

Excellence of quality was unmistakable
in his carriage and appearance ; indeed, it
was this conscious superiority that occasioned
so much wonder as to who he was.
Alone, unthought-of and unattended, he
presented himself to the widow O'Kourke
late one summer evening.

I wish to occupy your rooms " were
almost his only words as he crossed the
threshold, though the worthy estimable
relict never could understand how he
knew she had apartments to let.

The year 18 — was fast drawing to a
close — autumn being already at hand.

This morning, however, was unusually
fine. As the sun rose high in its vaulted
zenith, the sluggish mists crept from

their black recesses to be ruthlessly dispelled,
while the feathered choristers distended
their reedy throats and carolled
their full notes of gladness. "With the
same preoccupied look the stranger presented
himself as usual at the little postoffice
and received the customary letters
for Harcourt Russell, Esq.

Politely returning the meek salutation
of the attentive official, he was in the act
of placing these letters in his pocket, when
the superscription on one caught his eye,
and uttering an involuntary exclamation,
he leaned heavily against the counter.

The sympathetic face of the postmistress
at once showed actual concern as, almost
tenderly, she said, " Invade, I hope yer
honour's not ill ? " With admirable fortitude
he repressed every trace of agitation
almost instantly, and in the same subdued
manner softly replied, " Thank you, my
illness is the growth of years, which time
and justice alone can cure." Long was

that touching reply remembered by his
simple-minded auditor, who, though unable
to realize the significance of his words,
yet did not doubt their sincerity.

Towards the evening of this day, which
was damp and foggy, a man, heavily muffled
and disguised, with measured steps cautiously
made his way towards Kilmainham,
one of the extreme points of the boundary
of the city of Dublin. Continuing his route
by the Phoenix Park, he turned to the left,
swiftly crossed the read and took a copious
draught from St. John's Well. " Many
years ago," he ejaculated, " I stood on this
hallowed place, but, alas ! how changed am
I now ; then I was happy in the pursuit of
life's dream — ay, joyous in its following as
the bird of passage pursues its aerial flight
across the measureless wave. I too have
crossed the wave, and yet again I am here to
prove life's treasures lost, lost ! Oh, let me
hide the damning thought beyond recalling*
and on to my destiny ! ' ' Hastily resuming

his resolute walk and manner, lie passed by
Bully's Acre, where sleeps Ireland's foremost
son, Brian Born. The path now
became winding and rugged, not a soul
was visible, nor were the abodes of man
to be met with. Fearlessly, however, he
pressed on, at length relaxing his pace as
endeared Richmond Cemetery, and though
the night was dark and dismal he seemed
heedless of all that was passing around,
but could any one have peered into those
dilated eyes they would have read resolution
and energy therein that would not
brook defeat. Silently he stood glistened,
reclining against the wall of the churchyard.
The faint, low simulation of a hoot escaped
his lips, when, almost immediately, a rope
ladder was cast over the wall, and rapidly
ascending it he disappeared on the other
side.

CHAPTEK II.

While the events narrated in the preceding
chapter were being enacted, a woman
watched from her eyrie height on the Hill
of Howth across the opaque waters of the
magnificent bay of Dublin.

With her face closely pressed against
the moist vapour-clad window, she sedulously
counted the flight of time, now going
into the outer passage to listen, and again
returning to her observatory to meditate
on the strange continued absence of her
expected visitor. Dressed in a robe of
deep mourning, her face partook of its
sombre hue, and looked stony white in
the gloomy, clouded chamber.

She was tall, erect — nay, almost rigid in

appearance and movements, but a pensive
beam shot from out those lustrous eyes,
softening the contour of that meditative
face, and imparting to it a wealth of truest
sympathy.

The wind swept ruthlessly by, maddening
the rampant waves that broke in weird
discordant sounds, and, with baffled energy,
wasted themselves on the rock-bound base
of her lonely dwelling.

Far off in the dim distance she watched
the abrupt oscillations of the warning lightship,
as it rose and fell at the behest of the"
sea, and thought how many like herself
had to bend and succumb to the measure
of Time's tempests as they permeate and
dissever the atomy sands of our too seldom

joy.

In the midst of these wan memories
of the past her eye was arrested by the
appearance of a four-oared boat, lightly
speeding towards her, and rapidly approaching.
"It is odd," she thought,

"he should have chosen this perilous
mode of coming, but evil counsellors lean
to the strong in everything, even to that
which most others dread.' '

The wind being off the land, was necessarily
in the teeth of the boat, and, with
the back-wash, made her roll in the turbid
short waves.

Steady, lads ! pull strong ; that's it,
hold together. Now look out ; give way
in the bow; right you are; unship oars ! "
were the words of the man at the helm as
the oars lay slanting in their rowlocks, while
the " way " on the boat was sufficient to
carry her through a narrow opening in the
rocks, inside of which, under the influence
of the " tiller," she speedily hove-to alongside
a small improvised jetty. Leaping
ashore, the late speaker went straight towards
the house, looming above in the distance.
Familiar with its shingly path, he
speedily found himself at the door, which
instantly opened.

Is her ladyship at home?" he inquired
of the old woman who presented
herself.

"Arrah! where else wud she he an such
a night ? Av ye call this ould barrack her

home ! May I there, sure, I won't

be after cursing."

Unmindful of these depreciatory remarks,
the first speaker resumed : —

Give her ladyship this letter, and say
I wait her commands."

"Av course ye do, an' why not? What
the civil else are ye fit for?" continuing
in an undertone, as she went upstairs,
Ay, an' ye'll wait me commands as
well."

Her auditor smiled good-humouredly,
and indulged in blithely whistling the
Groves of Blarney " whilst waiting. It
was not long, however, before the querulous
voice again smote his ears, from the
end of the small hallway, saying, —

Lane yer dirty feet, and be archer following'

me upstairs; thin's me orders,"
she emphasized, while ascending to the
floor above, without waiting to see the
injunction complied with.

Brushing his hair with his hands, he
overtook her almost at a bound, when she
suddenly barred further progress, exclaiming—


"Aizey! Yer not much used to stairs,
bud ye '11 larn manners for the first time in
yer life," saying which she clutched her
narrow dress with each hand, and brought
it and them to an elevation, effectually
keeping him on the lower step, as she rose
to the alternate upper one. Teaching the
flat, without any token or warning Mag
roughly opened the door, and almost
pushed him into the apartment, exclaiming,—


Troth, yer ladyship ! I've seen the
day whin asses had manners, but here's
wan as has nothing' to share, bad scran to
thin all, crop an' nick ! "

You need not heed what old Margaret
says," observed the lady in mourning, as
she politely motioned her visitor to a chair,
while the voice of the old woman reached
them, evidently objurgating some one, if
only herself.

The new comer nervously assumed a
seat, and, looking downwards, spoke in a
tone of inquiry.

I brought your ladyship a letter from
Lord "

Raising her hand, she firmly interrupted
him, saying, —

Your master, sir, has sent it."

I beg pardon," he faltered.

No more was rejoined, and a pause succeeded
whilst she attentively perused the
paper in her hands as he looked towards
the carpet.

Is it a very dangerous night on the
water ? ' ' was resumed inquiringly.

No, your ladyship ; it is rough somewhat,
but nothing much to speak of."

There is no great peril in venturing to
Malahide ? "

Not for one with your ladyship's
determination," he said in confident voice.

Then I shall go," were her quick
resolved words.

Thank your ladyship. I'll get some
wrappers and covering to make the heat
comfortable."

Nothing, please, out of the way," she
faintly smiled, " but see that Margaret
provides you and the boatmen with refreshment
while I prepare for the short
voyage."

Oh, yes ! yes, Margaret, your ladyship.
I — I — in fact, we — " (he now reached the
door, and hastily escaped outside to finish
the sentence) — "we will easily thrive on
all she'd give us."

Ye lie, ye baste ! " was hissed into his
ear by old Margaret. " Didn't I hear every
word passed ? ay, ay, an' I know what
didn't pass " (a running commentary ashe

hastily went down the stairs). " She
goes o'er the waters, bud, curse ye an'
yer employer, even thin ye shan't hurt
her ! "

They had now reached the outer door,
and, turning menacingly, he said, —

Do you mean we want to drown her —
to '

Yes, I do, ye black hypocrites, but ye
shall not ' ' — (notwithstanding his silence
reading " wherefore " in his fixed eye ashe
departed). She raised her voice to a
frenzied tone, and shouted on the night
wind, " Because Heaven scorns the guilty
an' withers them in their sin."

A hand was now placed on her sinuous
shoulder, her mistress pleadingly saying, —

Margaret, nay, speak not," repressing
her impatience. " In each of our lives
there is one supreme hour wherein fortune
hangs upon a gossamer thread, the timely
severance of which is freighted with weal
to our whole future. Mine is at hand, and

by that power above you have but now
invoked, I shall accomplish all that is due
to the honoured proud name of my lost
husband, through venturing across this
stormy lake ; it is in me to feel, to know,
it cannot be otherwise."

Ah, Allan," faithful Mag entreated,
yer words are always three, but don't go
to-night ; lave it till daylight shines an
ye ashore."

Say no more," was replied decisively ;
"it would be trifling with my dearest
hopes to hesitate. No ! no ! " she said,
with a deprecating gesture, "you cannot
alter my decision. Good night " (walking
towards the boat), "good night; your sleep
will not be long ere I return."

Before the devoted servant could reply
her mistress went hurriedly down the
rugged path and stood beside the boat.
All being now ready, she was respectfully
assisted to her seat, where, declining
extraneous covering, she remained,

quietly observing the process of departure.


It'll be a dirty night, Jim," said an
old salt; " see, the wind's coming' up, an'
the tide."

Not so much," interestedly interposed
old Margaret's quondam friend, " when
we've passed the chops just outside, and
get the regular long swell."

"But it is a cross sea," observed the
passenger, " and time presses."

Let go the painter!" shouted the
cockswain excitedly; "it must be done.
Oars ready ! " and the boat noiselessly
moved from her anchorage.

You will never pull through that sea,"
they were surprised to hear the lady say,
and," she added, " there is only one way
in which you can succeed."

Arrah ! how, yer ladyship ? " Jim inquired
with eagerness.

Hoist the main sheet and mizen ; then
with a single reach we will make Malahide,

if the wind holds as it is," was calmly
answered.

"It is very dangerous to tack in this
water, yer ladyship," said the cockswain.

Tacking will not be necessary. Keep
the sail free, and the helm well in hand."

Before there was time for further parley
the fishermen by impulse moved to the
suggested course, and the boat, deep set
and lying low in the stern, drove headlong
through the perturbed waves.

She can conquer us all, anyhow," exclaimed
one of the salts aloud, looking
towards their 'freight.'

And well for you it is so," was muttered
by the recumbent figure of a man
rising from behind a rock, where he had
intently watched the embarkation, unlocking
a brace of pistols, which he restored
to his pockets.

Chapter III.

The " Harcourt Arms" is the best-known
and most frequented hostelry on
the main road between Dublin and Mala-hide.
Its owner, Peter Gaffeney, was an
old retainer of the Harcourt family, and
having made the comely daughter of Terry
Cochran of the village smithy believe in
him, they joined hands and not insignificant
fortunes, amid the good wishes of all
their neighbours.

Shortly after their marriage they succeeded
to the ownership of the abovementioned
inn.

Mrs. Gaffeney speedily developed into
an excellent mother and attentive wife,

vol. i. 2

but above all she was eager in the pursuit
of business ; while her husband as he progressed
in years and prosperity revealed
two somewhat anomalous characteristics,
namely, that he could drink more whisky
and tell more lies within a given time than
any man in existence.

There are certain conventional outlines
which by common accord are not only
expected in the well-known proportions of
that civic luminary, the alderman, but the
absence whereof in any Falstaffian candidate
would be regarded as an anathema
upon municipal grandeur ; and so with
Blatherbill," as he was commonly called :
to dress well, eat well, drink well, and
lie well were every-day necessities of his
unthinking life.

Unthinking it was to a certainty, for he
was of believers the most believing. On
this evening the " Harcourt Arms " was
unusually well filled, giving the excellent
Mistress Gaffeney desirable opportunities

of agreeably referring to her pleasure in
seeing so many familiar faces, " An' sure
it wasn't a taste av trouble at all at all,
to repay te trie me assures, ' ' though it brought
increased coursing beads of perspiration
on her heated face and proportionally filled
her " till " (the key of which was always
carried by Mistress G-afTeney to spare her
ungracious spouse the trouble of accounting
for certain symptoms of emptiness
therein, and the disappearance of looked-for
metallic records therefrom). Additional
chairs and forms were dragged from the
kitchen, and extra rush lights posted on
available eminences for the unusual event.
Drinking vessels, too, of multifarious
patterns were industriously improvised,
the general disposition being to contribute
by individual effort and exertion to the
weal of this night's festive commonwealth ;
and right well did they succeed, for as
Blafcherbill " waddled in his huge chair
with outstretched legs holding his free

short pipe in his encircling lips, he transcended
all former efforts, however successful
in the field of doubtful lore, although
it was a subject of comment that his
present vein was of rather a hard, serious
mood, instead of the ephemeral flights that
were wont to set the table aglow with
mirth and whisky.

Wit two smoothing' irons ? Arrah, what
d'ye mayne, Blatherbill? " The inquirer
looked steadfastly at mine host.

Devil a lie, I relate, 'tis all truth
an' no other."

"Hem! strange at any rate," interrupted
Johnny Dobbs, the ostler.

Balancing his clay pipe on the edge of
its tin cover to permit the smoke to exude,
and folding his arms on the table, "Blather-bill
" looked decisively at his interrogator,
saying,—

I relate, yis, I saw it mesel', an' she
may thank the smoothing' irons for gittin'
her a husband."

Interestedly they closed around the
speaker as he continued.

There wor some allowance to be
med for the poor soul : twice he chaotic
her, letting' her com back wit the whole
country laughing' in their sleeves at her,
bud this time she wor determined to hav'
him, an' no wonder."

More power to her praytecake," observed
his wife triumphantly, waking up a
responsive chorus of assent ,

The power wor in the irons, an* not
the praytecake, ma boucher ; tho' a nob
av fresh butter slung on the top av
wan av thin same an' let tumble again the
trap door to yer stomach is better nor
takin' out a disabled tooth wit an ould

saw."

This graphic allusion to an alimentary
item of common interest and general delectation
induced an emptying of the
glasses in accord.

Whether amused with himself, or interested

at the prospect of the empty
measures waiting replenishment, was not
known, but a smile stole across the face
of "Blathers" as he proceeded.

Well, sure, all went fair wit Biddy
till the morning' av the marriage, whin as
usual Tim wor drunk or pretended to be,
just as he throated her afore ; poor Biddy
sat down in front av the fire while he
snored, she persuaded herself to cry,
bud known' enos kep her eye an thrice
Tim, till she saw he wor skaymin', whin
going' over to him she said, ' Now, Tim,
up wit ye ; home I'll never go till we've
bin to his reverence, — not that he'd marry
us while yer drunk, but ye see av we
only git that far, they can't hav' all the
laugh again me whin I go back, an' I'll
never behave ye in future av ye don't
com now.'

He tried to soften her, but it wor no
use, so aff they trudged to Father Blake.
Never wor Tim so drunk as whin he

stood afore his reverence, and Father
Blake sed as how he would marry thin,
bud to com again tomorrow.

' Troth, thin,' ses she, ' av id's not today,
'twill never he : what's yer reverence's
objection ? '

' Objection! why, the man's drunk.'
'Drunk ! ' she shouted, letting' fall two
smoothing' irons from under her arms, that
made the priest and Tim tumble again niche
other, Timhavin' the best, for Father Blake
lay an the floor, an' whither wit the irons
or the fright, Tim never wor so sober since
or afore. But gittin' up an' recovering' a
little, his reverence commenced saying' he
wasn't shurewhat to do, whin she lifted the
irons, an' putting' wan on the table towards
his reverence heavy, an' the other heavier
to Tim, the harmony began at want.
Fist whin Tim had to shake his words he
hesitated, she med a spring at the irons,
whin he an' the priest shouted, and to the
present hour neither knows who had the

last word, or how they escaped the
northern' smoother."

Throughout this recital " Blatherbill "
developed his accustomed mannerism, and
the laughter greeting its conclusion was
loud and spontaneous, which would probably
have induced other cognate efforts,
but that abruptly a fair, lithe young man
stood in the doorway, when they uprose,
warmly welcoming him, to the exclusion
of all other thoughts, — the words of the
new comer, " I need hardly assure you
of my gratitude for your kind wishes,"
being echo'd by a concurrence of "Three
for ye, an' God speed ye."

This is yer last night among us,
Mister Walther," continued mine host :
may ye return from Ameriky lucky in
yer marche."

Amen ! Amen ! " confluent followed.

Somehow," replied the object of their
solicitude, " I have a predetermined conviction
of finding my brother, and " (hesitating)

" Mister Yincent I Mister

Vincent ! " exclaimed eager voices.

'Tis even so : despite all we have heard,
and some of the reports look true, I cannot
believe in their untimely end."

But why didn't they turn up whin the
ould Lord died ? "

I wish ' ould Nick ' had the present wan
anyhow," said the groom from Lord Dare-court's
establishment, who was approvingly
nodded to for the remark. Seemingly unmindful,
the latest arrival proceeded, —

You know I am somewhat of a fatalist,
and often since my brother escaped with
the Hon. Mr. Harcourt, I have dreamed
of them in one position, and in one place,
until I am convinced there is reality in it."

Blatherbill " now looks very reflective.

Yer larnin' has turned yer head," suggested
Giddy Flanagan.

"Well, I cannot agree with you; true,
owing to the care bestowed on me by my
brother, I had many opportunities of preferment

unknown to him, and believe I
have fairly employed them to advantage,
but if there be aught of benefit in this,
surely it will give me a larger chance of
unveiling the mystery of Harcourt, and
with it my brother."

The landlord gazed long and earnestly
into the last speaker's face, as he inquired,
—

Have ye been dhraymin' lately what ye
would me long ago, Mister Walther ? '

"Yes."

"Whin?"

"Last night."

That the two escaped from Galway ? '

"Yes."

In a small boat ? "

"Yes."

An' not a soul knew thin ? "

They were not recognized."

I share, word for word, I drained
that inesel' last night." This was uttered
by Gaffeney in a tone of concern

hitherto unknown in him, and the general
surprise thereat was greatly increased
when his wife added, —

Yis, at the time he would me exactly
what he now ses."

By a sort of powerful attrition, all crowd
closely where young Walter Dillon and
Blatherbill " sternly face each other.

The former now assumes the role of
questor.

In your dream you saw my brother ? "

"Yes."

"How did he look?"

Very sad and wretched like."

Exactly. Did you try to converse
together?"

No ; all my looks wor bint an his
companion."

So were mine. Describe his companion."


"I don't know how; id wor the most
melancholy, broken-hearted face I ever
saw."

Too true, so it was. Did it soon
turn aside from you ? "

No, it watched me in a way that med
me think of something' years ago, the eyes,
the mouth, the forehead, the form, av —

av Great God ! look, 'tis there : seethe

lost heir av Darecoort ! "

All eyes are strained to the dewy
window, whereat, on the outside, resting
against it, were the very facial lineaments
just mutually depicted.

For a brief moment they are bereft of
speech and power to move, but quickly
young Dillon recovered himself, while the
apparition had disappeared.

Some of you keep me company,' ' he
said, vaulting across the table, followed by
half a dozen willing hands. An interval of
a quarter of an hour wore on in agonizing
suspense, when Walter and his " Aides "
returned, their looks proclaiming a fruitless
errand.

"Seen nothing?" asked the landlord
sententiously.

No, nothing, tho' we scoured the road
nearly two miles," was uttered very dejectedly.


What can it mayne ? " inquired Mistress
GafTeney, suppressing her voice, and
adding, " No sign for two miles, Mister
Walther?"

None," he replied.

"Then," observed << Blatherbill," "it
wor no stranger to the wood av Bertram."

Each and all were relieved by the "Goodnight,
God speed ye," which announced
the unexpected breaking up of the
gathering.

CHAPTER IV.

Vincent Dakecouet was only child of the
lord of that name, who, intolerant and
imperious in all things, destined his son
for an ambitious role in the war of ascendency
then rampant in Ireland.

The Lady Harcourt had been dead
many years, and as the noble widower
heard Vincent was at last housed in classic
Eton, he became somewhat relieved of an
unspoken restraint, and abandoned himself
to habits of moroseness and impecuniosity.


The tenants on his broad estates felt
the severity of his rule, a common phrase
among them, descriptive of injustice, being
As bad as ould Darecoort."

Things had gone on in this fashion for
many years, until at length they attained a
culminating point, when some overt act
was contemplated by the tenantry of the
Harcourt property to bring its owner to a
sense of justice.

Morose, sullen, and saturnine, Lord
Harcourt slept his time in peace and dry
content, unconscious of much that was
current in the neighbourhood, but well
assured his trusted confidant and agent
(Mister Brien Flynn) left no stone unturned
to enforce his behests.

Like many of this class, Brien was
essentially born one of the people, but
being of a remarkably close turn of mind,
he early displayed habits of great frugality
and industry, which yielded small yet
certain results ; and, however small, they
were none too little for him.

Pence grew to shillings, the latter
developed into pounds, and the bad times
permitted of endless opportunities for

extortion, such chances never being missed
by the ready and astute Brien. To have
the reputation of being rich is sometimes
of as much value as the actual possession
thereof. Yet so marvellously sudden was
the transition from nothingness to undoubted
wealth in this case, that people
involuntarily gazed somewhat vacantly
when his disliked form went by in that
well-appointed gig, and, scratching their
heads, usually said, " Begorra, it bangs
Bannagher."

As Brien Flynn climbed higher towards
the vane of worldly ambition he changed
remarkably. Thinner and narrower he
became in physical and mental proportions,
viewing all from one standpoint, and
that was money.

The most adamant heart has surely some
vulnerable spot : at least, so it seemed to
be with him. Repellent, nay, scornful to
others, and barely civil to those whom he
once knew well, he yet contrived to keep

up a semblance of affectionate interest for
Molly MacCarthy, going every evening to
her snug compact house to gloat over his
present gains and future prospects.

This continued until the neighbours in
many ways showed their resentment to
Molly, who naturally enough came to be
regarded as the future Mistress Flynn, and
May his bad money do the hussy good,"
was often jeeringly hissed at her as she
passed. Now it happened that Brien
Flynn never indulged in a tender expression
to Molly MacCarthy, regular as he
was in visiting her home, nor did he upon
any occasion admit or deny the report commonly
regarding them as being engaged.
It was not so, however, with the other party
to the supposed contract. As she became
more spoken of and avoided by the villagers
and her former acquaintances, she began to
depend more and more on him for protection,
and in this frame of mind Molly

quietly waited for the day when he would
vol. i. 3

say they were to be married without previously
asking her permission.

Time rolled on uneventfully in this way,
until one morning it suddenly became
known that Brien Flynn was installed as
agent over the Harcourt property. With
open mouths arid pallid faces, the people
stared, awed and amazed ; but there was the
hard incontrovertible fact, and very soon
his sagacity and greediness were manifested
by the imposition of supplementary grievances
unknown even in the lord's stern
rule. The popular dislike of Brien was at
all times deep if not external, but when it
had been found that from the day of his
advent to Harcourt he had cut Molly
MacCarthy dead, people turned away in
loathing from him.

Murrain on ye, bud we'd deny yer
mother, ye unnatural baste ! "

How cud he whin she died years ago
to git away from his greedy claws ? " was
the speedy response.

He's no worse nor his master anyhow
; not that that same's much to boast
av bethany you an' me."

Ton me soul yer right, yit av I had
the hanging' av both, I'd giv dirty Brien
the longest drop as the shortest road to
the civil."

This was how the lord and his business
representative came to be regarded by
those who only claimed the right to live
and let live. And so we find them on a
certain winter night when the warring
elements above failed to assuage the stormy
agitation within them. The merciless wind
rushed savagely by, disporting with the
large flakes of snow that pirouetted in
fantastic shapes, or fell heavily in muffled
thuds on the closely carpeted earth.

In the wide, dense, overgrown Bertram
Wood no sound disturbed the hollow music
of the snow dance, drifting into its deepest
dell and obliterating its greatest eminence,
snapping almost large branches which had

bravely withstood autumn's perils, yet now
quail and perish beneath the ever recurring
olivet layers.

The leveret, rabbit, and wild cat slunk
into their cheerless cells, while the indigenous
feathery race above, if in existence at
all, evinced no symptom of being alive.
The scene, however, in the wood near the
old time-tossed windmill was now earnestly
impressive. An opening had been lately
made and remade, as the accumulating
drift underwent a repetition of the clearing
process by those undaunted weird-looking
forms moving unflagging to the task.
Half a dozen lanterns shed a fitful hazy
gleam of striving light, their energy and
disposition to shine being violently assailed
by the biting wind. Nevertheless they
were flitted to and fro as beacons on that
tempestuous night, and many an eye moved
sympathetically to their dancing demon-like
beams viewed at first from the grim
uncertain distance.

By the hour of midnight a curious scene
was being enacted at the before-mentioned
windmill. In its shade, fronting the clearing,
but subject to all the impulse of the
storm, a compact body of stalwart men
stood intently listening to words addressed
to them by a melancholy-looking, yet passionate
young man, who was also exposed
to the full severity of the weather. He
was somewhat demonstrative and dramatic
in appearance, but his words burned upon
his auditors' ears, showing their results
in the subdued breathing of those who
eagerly listened, absorbed and deeply
resolved.

Other speakers had had their say, and
like their many prototypes in this mundane
sphere, might have left it unsaid, so far as
visible effect went.

"It must be so," proceeded the successful
orator. "God wills not injustice, and
we have borne its brunt too long."

Obedience is a forward link in the silken

chain of virtue, but we may outstep its
truest value, as those do who cannot
distinguish between tyranny and the
claims of honesty. A volume of "Go
an, right ye are," etc., etc., rose upon
the night, and faded into mystic space ashe
resumed : —

"By Lord Harcourt we are wronged,
cruelly so, indeed; but age shields him
from our aggressive action. He reviles
our most sacred belongings, and contemn
our appeals to be fairly judged, listening
to the representations of that villain Brien
Flynn."

Loud menacing words followed the allusion
to 'Brien Flynn,' high above which
however the orator was heard distinctly
and vehemently.

"Tis of him, this watch-dog of hell, I
now speak. He has fattened on the visitations
that Heaven has sent upon poor old
Ireland : the deeper the ruin the greater
his unhallowed gain."

Tumultuous agitated voices came, —
"Down with Flynn ! Hurrah ! lade us an:
hurrah! 'Tis now or never, an to Dare-court
; 'tis just the night. Into the lake
wit the agent afore we rest. Away,
away!"

By a simultaneous move they rush to
where the orator excitedly stands, when
suddenly a powerful athletic young man
leaped over the white bushes and confronted
them calmly, with outspread hands
motioning them to silence.

Your words," he said, "have reached
my attentive ear. If the dark wrongs
exist that you assert, with the aid of
Heaven my mission here is and shall be todo
you justice." Warmly extending his
hand to the successful and flushed orator, he
continued, "You know me, do you not?"

"Oh, wonder!" was shouted by the
latter. "It is the young lord of Dare-court!"


CHAPTER V.

Vincent Harcourt, walking homewards
in the snow, asked of his companion,
Eustace Dillon, many questions of local
interest. As boys they had been fast, loyal
friends ; but when the former left home for
England, all personal remembrance of each
other seemed to have departed with him,
Vincent possessed a very sanguine temperament,
regarding everything in the
most ornate, hopeful guise, and amid the
variety of his new superficial life at Eton
he postponed writing to Eustace so indefinitely,
that at length he resolved on waiting
until they met, which he opined would
be soon ; but it happened his many vacations
were never spent in Ireland, and thus

in the long stream of a fashionable existence
the former friend was neglected.

Eustace Dillon was his direct opposite
in race, habits, temperament, and position.
He deeply pondered on the untoward delaying
hearing from Yincent, but when this neglect
was maintained until it became certain
no communication w T as intended, he bitterly
thought of his once-trusted friend's faithlessness,
and his melancholy, pensive nature
soon supplied a motive, as it whispered,
How foolish to think of the unstable past.
Yincent Harcourt will be a lord, and great
amid the great, while I am nature's lowliest
offspring, a poor, poor gentleman ! '

Eustace Dillon's parents were dead,
leaving him a very small annuity wherewith
to maintain himself and his much
younger brother, Walter.

His father had been wealthy, but exhausted
himself and his property in a fruitless
effort to establish his claim to the title
and possessions of the EitzDillons.

As Eustace slowly realized the difficulties
inseparable from his straitened
circumstances, he became very gloomy
and despondent.

Pale, spiritless, and retiring, he made no
friends, nor did he wish to know strangers ;
rather leaning towards solitude and contemplation,
his great absorbing anxiety
being for his helpless brother.

If I could see his future assured,"
he mused, " I would quit this desolate land
and fight my way to an honourable distinction
in another."

But the opportunity never came, and
he moved through life the same pensive
brooding misanthropist. To the villagers
he was always available with sapient
counsel and solid advice, in which way
he heard of their hardships under the
regime pursued at Harcourt ; indeed, it
seemed at once as if his long abandoned
energy found therein a congenial groove
for kindred action ; thus inspired, throwing

himself eagerly into the breach, he became
the recognized champion of the " downtrodden
people."

Acting on their behalf, he one day
presented himself at Harcourt Castle, to
acquaint its noble owner with the position
of affairs ; but to his utter chagrin, and
even disgust, he w T as ushered into the
presence of the agent, who sardonically
observed, " Lord Darecoort's business is
as much mine as id is his, an' whatever ye
hav' to shake to his lordship ye can say tome
: that's just how the matter stands."

Distraught with passion, Eustace
shouted, " Yes, you base-born varlet, it is
because Lord Harcourt has forgotten what
is due to himself, and those under him, by
adopting a village cur to be his representative,
that I am here to-day to warn him."

Warn him ! " echoed the middleman,
the likes av ye warn me lord — ha ! ha ! "

In an instant the laugh was crushed out
of his cavernous mouth, as he lay a distempered

mass, felled by a blow from
Eustace Dillon, who exclaimed with trembling
accents of rage, " Oh, why have I
lived to be derided by a wretch low enough
to be rejected by scorpions, and in the
house of one not good enough to be my
equal were his spoils of pillage and plunder
restored to their lawful owners ! "

The recumbent man answered, " I'll live
to pay ye for this bad day's work."

Instantaneously Eustace dropped on his
right knee, and catching the agent by the
collar of his coat, drew him close, his
mouth almost touching his ear while he
uttered, in heated abrupt words, " By
the recollection of all that's dear or prized
in the past or future I will never rest in
my design until I have accomplished such
a recompense as your misdeeds and infamy
richly deserve ! "

Notwithstanding his ready habit of self-possession,
Brien Flynn crept deeper into
his corner as his antagonist departed, a

strange defiant reverberation of the ominous
words still clinging to him.

Eustace Dillon fairly inflamed his few
auditors by a fiery recital of his interview
with the agent of Harcourt, and it was unanimously
agreed to secure the attendance
of all the employed on the property in Feltram
Wood, with the result which we have
already shown in the foregoing chapter.

By the time they reached the principal
entrance to Harcourt, its future owner
had had a fair resume of the whole position
from Eustace Dillon. The former accounted
for his untoward appearance at
the meeting by stating that his return
from Eton was yet unknown to his father,
who very seldom communicated with him,
and who, indeed, left him to take care of
himself. During a recent illness, as usual,
no letters came from his parent, and on
recovering he was advised to seek change
of air, when he suddenly resolved to return
home. No conveyance being readily available

in the city at that hour, for so long a
distance and in such weather, he set forward
(contemplating a surprise) on foot,
and passing Dillon's well-known house,
looked in, when young Walter told horn of
the meeting in the wood, and, it being on
his way, he determined on gratifying his
curiosity by observing it from a distance,
diligently watching, with no little interest,
the whole proceeding.

Some fatality has brought us together,
be assured."

These words were spoken by Eustace as
they stood under the shade of the lofty
trees surrounding Harcourt Lodge.

Whatever the fatality, I shall know
my duty," was responded. " For years
past I have come to regard things in a
different aspect from the prejudiced one in
which they were originally presented tome,
and an intestine strife above all others
can be generally traced to some local and
unjust cause."

Local and unjust they are, and I am
truly glad to hear the appropriate designation
come from you."

Then a prompt remedy shall be found
for the hideous wrong. Good night, Eustace,"
continued the speaker, " and may
our meeting be the happy omen of a still
happier future."

Amen ! amen ! " was responded warmly.
To-night I shall seek my pillow with a
lighter heart and more composed mind
than I have known for years — ay, since
last we met," — and shaking hands firmly
and heartily, they parted.

A moment later Vincent jumped over the
low wall separating him from the broad
tree-lined avenue leading to Harcourt
Castle, and alighting on the other side he
staggered against a man concealed behind
evergreens effectually screening him from
the road. Recovering himself, Vincent at
once seized the unknown with a vice-like
grip, inquiring, —

Who are you ? Why have you been
spying in this place ? "

Ye impertinent puppy, take yer hands
av me at want."

Not till I know who you are." — The
grasp was tightened.

Yer superior, anyhow, av ye keeps
company wit the likes av Mister Eustace
Dillon." — The hold was now beginning
to be stifling.

Untruthful hound! Mr. Dillon is a
gentleman, and my best friend. Tell me
who are you, ere I choke you."

Curse ye, take yer hands av me, afore
I have all the labourers up to drag ye
thro' the pond."

The hold was now insupportable while
they struggled on to the avenue.

"Let me go, I say. I'm wan av the
Directors.' "

Base liar ! I will have the truth out
at once. Who are you ? Answer quickly,
or I will render you speechless."

Exhausted from the prolonged struggle,
the assailed had hardly sufficient strength
to stammer, —

"I'm Brien Flynn."
What, the agent ? " relaxing his hold
in surprise.

"Yis, an' I'll make ye know id t' yer
cost, whoever ye are."

"I'm a friend of Mr. Dillon's: is not
that enough ? " derisively.

The agent's courage was fast returning.
"Little as I think av him, his friends
generally hav' a name," he retorted.

Well ! would you like to know mine ? "
was spoken listlessly.

Id 'ill save me the disagreeable trouble
av fmdin' out, anyhow."

Then, I am "

Who ? " apprehensively.
Vincent Harcourt," slowly.
Oh, mighty power ! " he exclaimed,
'tis the young lord ! "

vol, i. 4

Chapter VI.

The meeting between Lord Harcourt and
his only son and heir was as devoid of
parental affection or even interest as can
well be imagined

After an interval of five years they confront
each other, bnt alas ! how changed !

The father wore the visible impress
of time's inflexible finger in his deeply
indented face and stooping gait ; and would
it ended there ! but no, there was a harsh,
cruel, greedy look in the thin curves of
those thinner lips and small pivot eyes
which astonished and alarmed the well-proportioned
son now anxiously regarding
him. The voice, too, was so raspish and
keen that the latter repeated his inquiry

concerning his father's health, with a concern
broadly tinged with curiosity, to hear
the querulous " pretty well " peevishly
repeated.

The interview terminated abruptly, by
a sudden intimation from Lord Harcourt
that the present was his usual hour for
privacy and retirement — an invariable rule
not to be departed from. Biting his full
arched lip Vincent essayed a further solicitous
remark, which was rudely repulsed
as his father pointed towards the portal.

Rebuked and sorrowful, the heir of Dare-court
lowered his head and passed through
the doorway, on the outside whereof he
stumbled over a man kneeling.

What ! another eavesdropper ? "

I wor only thin' me shoe. Ah ! " looking
up, "the livelong night I've bin thinking' av
yer honour, an' how unfortunate I wor in
not known' yer lordship, — yit," rising,
me lord, me lord, ye'll forgive."

Regardless of his words Vincent walked

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF ILLIWUfe

ii

towards the end of the corridor, but when
the agent called him " me lord, me lord,"
he suddenly turned, saying, —

Peace, man, I am not Lord Harcourt,"
and immediately afterwards he was gone.
His departing steps, however were still
audible as Brien Flynn's eyes shone from
out his livid distorted face, while silently
muttering, " An' never will be av I can
help id."

The agent now gently entered the apartment,
taking his accustomed chair before
the noble owner of Harcourt, who was
awaiting him.

Well, have you succeeded ? "

Entirely so, me lord."

How many notices were served ? '

Forty-three, me lord."

Good. If that does not subdue them
I shall eject every tenant on the property,
and colonize it with Englishmen."

The owner of Harcourt did not observe
the hot flush lighting up his agent's sallow

face, who had not yet lost all his nationality,
but who, however, discreetly replied :

Yer lordship's too wise for the likes av
me to advise."

Nay, nay. I hearken to your counsel
with interest. Is it not on your advice
that I have decreed the present measures
against my stubborn tenants, who, as you
say, will not follow, but must be driven ?"

This time the agent covertly smiled,
and in pleasant tones responded, —

I cannot deny, me lord, som share in
the great work av improvement now going'
an ; depend an me word, yer lordship,"
he added with resolution, "whin the day
is carried every sentence I spoke 'ill com
three."

Did you meet my son Mr. Vincent,
who left the room almost as you entered ? "

Ay, me lord, I had that misfortune'
last night."

Misfortune!" was the blank rejoinder.

Well, sure as I didn't expect his

honour, an' thinking' it wor an intruder, I
won't civil enos to the gentleman who I'd
bind me knee to in politeness av course,
an' why not, had I known at the time."

Lord Harcourt elevated his brows inquiringly,
saying,—

Where did you see my son last night ? "
' At the man lodge frontin' the avenue. ' '
Late ? "

Past midnight, me lord."
How odd ! " escaped the nobleman.
I thought he wor a stranger, me lord''
How did you learn he was not ? "
u Not till he would me, me lord. After
I — I " (hesitating) " hard him in conversation
wit "

Who? who ? " inquired the old man.
The agent jealously searched the countenance
of his employer as he laconically
answered, —

Wit Mister Dillon, me lord."
What ! " shouted Lord Harcourt in a
voice at once supercilious and angry," with

the man who above all others you say is
hounding on the tenantry against me?"

"I'm sorry av I don' wrong in tellin'
yer lordship."

No, no," petulantly ; " you have done
quite right — but answer. Was my son
with this agitator you have so often spoken
against ? "

Yis, me lord."

"The man who owns that small property
the other side of the river ? "

The same, me lord."

Who calls himself a gentleman ? "

And who is wan," energetically. " I
beg yer lordship's pardon," said the agent,
faltering, " people call him a gentleman."

Quite a different thing to your saying
so, who have so frequently spoken the

reverse."

With which remark Lord Harcourt
suffered his nostrils to resume their normal
dimensions as he relapsed into his meditative
mood, observing, —

How can my son have met with this
paltry person, and so soon too ? "

"Perhaps," suggestively, " rne lord, he
knew him afore he went to the university,"
answered Flynn.

"No, no, he had but one companion;
to whom also Lady Dare court was warmly
attached. I forget his surname," reflectively,
"but he was familiarly called
Eustace."

The agent leaped in his chair at this
discovery.

What ails you, Flynn?"

Thank ye kindly, me lord ; I wor near
shipping' aff the chair, that's all."

"Oh, indeed! singular!" came slowly
from his noble employer. The ensuing
pause was broken by Lord Dare court
saying, " I have been considering the
subject we have just spoken upon, and I
shall send for my son, to question him
respecting his knowledge of this disreputable
man. Please ring that bell,

Flynn," motioning to the communicating
instrument.

Ye'll pardon me, me lord, av I make
so would as to say I wouldn't shake wan
word about id at all at all, till I find what
difference the young lord's coming' makes
wit this mister; I mayne this Dillon."

I cannot see cause for delay. However,
as you understand these people and I do
not, I will follow your suggestion."

Thank ye, me lord, 'twill be the wisest
course in the long-run."

My son's return is so unexpected, and
his account of it so vague, that I shall be
glad to hear further of his movements;
therefore, Flynn, keep a sharp look-out,
and report to me what is passing''

Me lord, thin wud ye wish me to watch
the young lord an' this Mister Dillon
particularly."

Young men are easily led away, and
my son has been so long absent, that I
cannot account for some possible foolish

vagaries he may have acquired ; therefore,
I repeat, I shall be glad to learn more of
his movements, especially with reference
to his unaccountable knowledge of a
person such as you have often represented
this Dillon to be."

Yer lordship knows I'm yer humble
servant, an' ye can depend an me integrity,"
— a leer covered his averted face for
an instant ; " no matter who I offend be
coin' me duty it shall be don." The last
words were strongly articulated.

"That is right, Flynn; and to none
other would I extend the same trust as I
repose in you, because in all you say my
interest appears to be foremost."

I'm beholden' to yer lordship for this
distrain' compliment, — invade I they to
merit id," rising. " Now I'll be after
takin' me respectful morning's lave, as I
want to git to Dublin afore 'tis late,
to push an the lawyers wit the 'jick-
mints.' "

Flynn," observed the noble owner of
Harcourt, " you are ever intent on business
; do precisely as you think best. But
I regret you do not avail yourself of my
offer to provide assistance. It is imposing
too much labour upon one person."

Looking the personification of meekness
and renewing his iterations of gratitude tome
lord,' the agent suavely bowed himself
out, passing down the large stone flight of
the castle stairs with remarkable alacrity
and precision.

Brien took a key from an inner pocket,
and unlocking a small private postern-gate,
let himself into the large plantation at the
rear of the building.

Continuing his rapid walk through
the tortuous verdant route, he speedily
found himself facing a low bricked archway,
quite obscured by the surrounding
foliage. Looking neither right nor left,
with decisive steps striding over the mosses
and briers struggling for existence on

those deep, well-cut stairs in the hard
flinty ground, heedless of that circle dug
out of mother earth, around which a
natural bench extended, he crossed to the
opposite side and went down three yet
lower steps, wherefrom confronting a deep
well in semi-darkness, whose water lay
between him and a stone altar used in
bygone days for the purposes of religion.
To take a small plank from a recess at his
side, and place it with one end leaning
upon the stone block and the other on
the lower step whereon he stood, was the
work of a moment. Passing over this
tiny bridge, walking to the back of
the altar, and touching a secret spring
therein, the huge monolith of granite
moved inwards, revealing a passage down
which he went, while the sacrificial emblem
of the past returned to its original
position.

This passage led into another yet wider
and better lit, whereby he reached a third

of proportionate improvement, at the end
whereof stood a large angular well-shaped
chamber, whose grey walls were fitted with
various recesses and wooden presses, some
few articles of wearing apparel being-visible
on the outside of these latter ;
one massive oak chest of enormous size
stood in a corner conspicuous by its
unequalled dimensions, and secured by
a lock equally abnormal in appearance.
An oak table in the centre and three
chairs completed the leading characteristics
of this weird apartment. Rapidly
entering, the agent threw himself into
one of the seats, burying his face in his
hands.

Long and deep were his mental communing.
At length in a measured calm
tone he slowly said, —

What a grate an' desperate game! bud
I'll sink or swim; 'tis too late to think
av going' back now. I always loved money,
bud I wor better av afore I ken to Dare-court;

there me fate wor sailed, for the
sight av the good filled me wit a restless
itching', an' be degrees I piled that christ so
full it 'ill hould no more. The ould lord is
now completely other me thumb. I wud
go an for iverrobbin' him and not a soul cud
know id, bud that unlucky turn up av the
son maynesme ruin." He paused. "What
is best to be don' ? It looks as av fortune
stands be me ; the ould lord axed me to
trap his son, an' ha! ha! I'll trap 'em
both afore I'm tired. There'll not be
much trouble getting' the youngster in
the mesh, bud curse an ye, Eustace Dillon,
'tis ye I hate and fear. Strange the lord
forgot his name; howsomever 'two an-lucky
meetthim together lasthnoight."
Another pause ere he resumes: " something'
must be don' to save mesel' — put the
ould man out av the world the young wan
nets me all the sooner, yit somebody must
go, an' I don't intend latin' the way. No,
the good is here, an' here I'll stay till I

git more, thin they may look for honest
Brien Flynn."

After another interval he decidedly said,
,, Me game is to wait, wait, wait ; git the
young lord into disgrace wit the father,
and banish him, av not keep me eye an a
chance av putting' him lane out av the
world without risk; in aether case I'llsthick
to the present lord and bamboos him tome
heart's contint till I'm don' wit him.
Dillon gripped me want, and be the many
golden guineas I've hid here in the ould
cloisters av St. Bridged's Abbey I'll rip
him yit, whin a thrust in the dark can
be struck from a strange hand for a
strong consideration. Com," and he
waxed excited, " pearls av me joy ! yer
me only comfort, me price av mind, let
me look at yer golden beauty : what
else hav' I to care for ! Good ! good !
here's more," throwing in specie, "an'
from this hour begins me fight again eternity
itself."

In stooping, his head touched one of
the recesses before mentioned, and the
outer door fell back, revealing a tall
dark young man with a pale irresolute
face fixedly regarding him ; and uttering
a loud shriek the agent fell senseless to
the ground.

Chapter VII.

A dozen years ago, as at the present time,
the neighbours came to the " Harcourt
Arms " of a night to dissipate a few hours,
and mayhap money.

The primitive habits of the people, however,
forbade excess, especially at the
former period when society was undermined,
the country beggared, and a reign
of terror still survived — meet legacies of the
rebellion which had but lately desolated
Ireland.

At the village hostelry the sudden
return of the young lord was freely commented
upon, and many reasons assigned
for it, all, however, being mere conjecture.

In reality none came, even approval.

i. 5

lately, to the truth, only one thing being
known and heartily felt — that " God bless
him, he wor not like his father, an' the days
av the bad agent wor numbered." This
sent a sudden reaction throughout the district,
everything becoming rapidly improved
and comparatively prosperous. The desirable
impetus was nowhere felt more than
at the " Dare court Arms," where trade
revived appreciably. A weight seemed to
be lifted off the people, they moved free of
restraint, and there was no necessity now
for inquiring who is who.

All this confidence and amelioration of
wrongs growing up since the advent of
the young lord, even the detested Brien
was seldom seen and less thought of.

The persona] attendant upon Vincent
Harcourt was an Englishman, pensioned
from the army, in whose ranks he had seen
much service. He possessed an honest-looking
face, crowned by a few bristling
grey hairs which, with military pertinacity,

always inclined the one way. An ardent
lover of the soothing weed, he drank little,
but smoked and ruminated a great deal,
and no one knew that unobtrusive, tall,
weatherworn man, with his three medals
the records of hard fought battles, but
deeply respected him. He was speedily
installed first favourite at the " Harcourt
Arms," where his genial smile and untutored
speech gained him many earnest
admirers and sympathizers.

That he was valet to the young lord was
enough indeed to achieve this result ; but
when saying with moist, expressive eyes, the
only truly happy years of his life were the
few short ones when both a husband and
a father, though but a poor soldier, he became
at once consolidated in the warmest
esteem and affection of the villagers.

Every evening occupying his " own
chair," as it was now usually called, in
the snug corner where it stood, expressly
dusted and arranged for him, he delighted

to smoke along pipe in tranquillity, listening
to the broad native humour tripping
impulsively along. He had so constantly
adverted to his married life in glowing
terms that they would frequently request,
Arrah, he after tellin' us all about id."
Hitherto the coaxing had been in vain,
and entreaties proved inoperative, though
never harshly declined ; on the contrary,
he seemed pleased to be the subject of
such universal interest, smilingly saying,
I'm not up to it to-night : another time
I'll respond to your call."

It happened on this particular occasion
that every one seemed in unusually good
humour and spirits, except the very man
most thought of and considered. Sad
and reserved the old soldier sat in his
accustomed place, but seldom moved or
spoke, and hardly smoked, as after a few
abrupt puffs of the hitherto ever-welcome
pipe, it hung neglected and unused between
his closed lips.

In monosyllables only did lie vouchsafe
to answer when addressed, and altogether
the barometer of general good spirits fell
amazingly under his freezing influence.
This example of apathy was fast becoming
contagious, when the landlord, foreseeing a
loss of business if it continued, bestirred
himself to arrest the downward magnetic
current, and after repeated appeals to him,
George Eutherford, valet to the young lord,
said, " I am sorry to be among you when
I cannot do your kindness justice, but.
to-day I heard of the death of the officer
under whom I first served, and who helped
me to get married."

Good luck to ye. Oh, don't stop ! "
exclaimed several anxious voices nervously.

Ay," said he, unmindful of the feeling
he was fast awakening, "and on one occasion
he saved the lives of my wife and two
children, and probably my own."

Arrah, shure,Misther Eutherford, more
power ; go an, go an, do avick, an' I'll say

has a dozen prayers for ye." This and
other like petitions reached hire, but they
were hardly heeded, for, oddly enough, at
this instant, he displayed a marked inclination
to proceed on his own account ; after
some trivial preliminaries, continuing, "At
an early age I 'listed in the 6th Regiment,
lying at Flood barracks, Preston, and
very soon picking up a chum, we passed
our spare time together.

' We were both inclined be saving even
on our small pay, and no day passed that
we did not put by four or five pence each
to the good. Every evening we went to a
certain house-of-call, the rule being to have
a pot of beer between us, that was all, for
which I paid one night and my comrade
the next.

' There was dancing and singing at this
public , in which neither myself nor my m at e
joined, but quietly smoking our pipes, we
looked on until it was time to go."

The narrator now became somewhat

affected in tone and manner ; however,
pulling up," as he said, the tale proceeded,
"It was there I met my poor wife."
Here he involuntarily sneezed, the large
handkerchief encompassing his copper-coloured
nasal organ even reaching to
the eyes, while his sympathetic auditors
consistently looked everywhere except towards
the well-known corner whence the
noise emanated.

The seemly pause ended, he continued,
with a deep inflation of lung and a voice
much forced beyond its ordinary power, —

On several occasions at the public-house
I noticed a young woman looking at
me, and I of course returned the compliment
; at last we got so far as to salute each
other, but we never spoke, for the reason
that she was always seated beside a smart
chap who, my chum and myself believed,
must be her sweetheart. One evening we
met as usual, and after saluting her I saw
she was alone, whereupon walking straight

over and taking her hand respectfully in
mine, I spoke firmly, ' Young woman, ever
since I see'd you first I've loved you, and
I never met another person I'd like to
marry hut herself,' looking truthful, feeling
what was said. She quickly replied,
returning the squeeze of my hand,
'Young man, since meeting you first I
respects you, and I have no objection to
be your wife.' We then sat down, and I
called for an extra pot of beer, beckoning
my comrade to come to the table. She
told us she expected her brother, who, we
were surprised to find, was the young man
we thought she kept company with ; he
drank part of the can of ale, and seemed
pleased to hear what had passed between
me and his sister, giving us an invitation
to go to their home and see their mother
(the father was dead), which I did the next
evening. No more of the public-house
after that for me. I plainly told the mother
how I was situated, but she would not hear

of marrying a soldier at any price, though
she had no doubt I would make her a
sober, honest husband.

Day after day this went on, Lizzy and
I getting fonder of each other, while the
old girl, seeing this, began to hate me ;
but the brother William did all he
could on my side. At last orders came,

draughting us to : now there was

no alternative, it must be yes or no ;
still the mother would not give way.
In bidding her good-bye Lizzy burst outcrying,
declaring she would go with me,
even without her parent's consent ; but I
reasoned with her, saying, as we had to
walk from Dublin to our destination, I
could not reach my quarters before a
certain day, which I told her, and we
agreed that she would meet me on that
very day, either with or against her
mother's wish." Here the old soldier
"wet his whistle" from the landlord's
proffered glass, the salutary example being

speedily imitated by the rest — out of their
own measures, of course — though, to do
them justice, they were more anxious to
hear him " go an." Proceeding, he observed,
" There is no occasion to say that
every day's march which brought me
nearer to my future quarters was most
welcome. At last, on a cold wet morning,
we commenced climbing up the steep hill
leading to the barracks. My heart fell as
I neared the top, seeing only strangers in
that dismal place, though I strained my
eyes in every direction ; and resigning all
hope, I could have cried — indeed, I have
often thought since that I must have done
so — when from under a window-blind,
where she had been sheltering, out stepped
Lizzy, saying, ' Young man, you see I'm
punctual ; ' — to which I answered, ' Young
woman, so I perceive.' That day I told
my Irish officer, Captain Darcy Burke,
how the case stood. Although he scolded
me warmly, he took us both in hand, put

her in lodgings in the town till we were
married, and then helped us to commence
housekeeping.

No wonder I felt sorry to hear of his
death this day, though he must be very
old. However, three years after our
marriage we were living quite content and
blessed with our two children. Captain
Burke got me any odd jobs going, knowing
I saved every penny for my home, while
Mrs. Burke employed my wife whenever
she could. Ah ! this was my happy time."
Another appeal to the nasal organ was
essayed, but the disposition to proceed
proved irresistible, and he resumed,
Things went on thriving and prosperous
till orders suddenly arrived for so many
men to be sent out at once to strengthen
the regiments then righting abroad, and it
came to my tarn to go.

In vain we reasoned with my wife ; she
said no power should separate us, and I
don't know how it would have ended had

not the good Captain Burke found a
racket dare-devil from his own parts,
named Jack Walsh, to take my place for
ten shillings cash down and two days' leave
of absence for a last good spree. So it
was settled, Jack receiving the money and
getting the required furlough.

On the morning of the third day following
the bugle sounded the parade, every one
in the barracks turning out to wish Godspeed
to the lads about to march to the port of
embarkation, some twenty miles distant. I
was cleaning the windows in the officers'
quarters and chatting to my wife below at
the same time, while the names of the men
for foreign service were being called out.
Suddenly, ' George Eutherford ' sounded
throughout the barrack square. ' Here,
sir ! ' I exclaimed, running down, not knowing
what it meant. ' Fall in ' were the
awful words: ' in ten minutes we march.'
Jack Walsh had not returned, and there
was no alternative but to take my place

in the ranks. My wife was simply mad,
nothing would quiet her, and at last they
could not restrain her from footing it the
whole distance of twenty miles with our
two children. She defied any power to
separate us, and abroad we would go
together. Nearly all we possessed was
put up and sold by auction ; oddly enough,
my wife was not so affected by this as I
was. Fancy prices were paid on purpose,
and everything that kindness could suggest
was done to lessen our troubles ; but the
broken-hearted wretchedness I felt when
the order was given to march I shall never
forget, as, each carrying one child and a
bundle containing all we had left in the
world, my wife and I commenced that
dismal journey."

The narrator could withstand it no
longer, and the big tears blinded him,
while those listening also gripped their
throats at something unusually sudden
experienced therein.

The soldier went on in slower, though
much lighter accents : " Our brave captain
thought of all that was possible to lighten
the march, buying endless articles for the
children. Their mother would take nothing,
nor even speak, but walked on pale
as a ghost. He allowed us to halt where
we pleased, and there was not a man in the
whole squad who did not beseech Lizzy tolet
him carry her child, which she refused,
while I frequently took advantage of their
friendly offers.

We had in this way got over half the
journey, when the captain's wife drove upon
a private outside jaunting-car, so closely
packed with boxes and luggage there was
hardly room for herself and the driver. No
sooner did Mrs. Burke see the mother and
child than she comprehended the whole
position ; and how she persuaded Lizzy
I'll never know, but in five minutes she
was on the car beside her with the two
children, the driver walking with us, while

the captain's wife, whip in hand, in his
seat, dashed along the road followed by
the hearty cheers of every man Jack of
us, including her husband."

Hurried feet were now passing the
"Harcourt Arms" at great speed, but
within they heard nought save the veteran's
story, who got so far as to say that, when
he reached the seaport, the radical Johnny
Walsh was there half sober, waiting to
fall in, and hence he was saved from going
to the war. Loud cries of "Fire, fire ! "
caused every one, including the old soldier,
to rush out, when, on the other side of the
bridge, the lone house of Molly MacCarthy
was discovered to be a mass of seething
igneous flame. As they hastily approached
the fated pile two figures were seen on the
wooden roof, working might and main to
break through it. It was known Molly
slept in the upper chamber, hence the
exertions of these two spectral objects in
that red lurid flame.

Voices pealed high in excitement :
God bless the gentleman ! shire isn't id
themselves, the young lord and Mister
Dillon?"

The latter at length broke through the
beams, but whether with fright or premeditation
it was impossible to say, there lay
Molly MacCarthy dead, and her would-be
deliverers had only time to jump from the
roof on to blankets, provided by their sympathetic
observers, ere the whole burning
fabric collapsed and fell, destroying all in
its sulphurous embrace, emitting millions
of brilliant sparks. "While the pile lay
entombed in sickening vapour a dog-cart
came rapidly along the high road, guided
by a solitary muffled figure, who clearly
wished to avoid recognition; but the
people had already surrounded the well-known
vehicle, exclaiming, " Oh, Mister
Flynn, poor Molly MacCarthy is burnt
to death ! Oh dear ! oh dear ! isn't id
awful?"

Clear the way," shouted the Dare-court
agent, lashing his horse forward ;
"I can thrace an a living' pig, bud a ded
woman's could comfort anyhow."

vol. i. 6

Chapter VIII.

Lucy Neville, of Nevillstown, was as fine
a specimen of an Irish lady as could well
be found. Tall, proud, and dauntless, she,
as herself said, went straight to the mark
in all that she undertook, even a semblance
of doubt or apprehension being unknown
in her vocabulary. Her actions were
characterized by this same resolution ;
as though, however daring the enterprise,
its facile achievement was assured
beforehand. Her regular, pale, rounded
face was seldom moved to superficial animation,
but those large, expressive eyes,
emerging from beneath well-pointed, dark
lashes, were fiery with poetic life, which

the slightest incentive woke up to enthusiastic
passion, or equally declared pity, as
the varying impulse was eagerly imbibed
by a comprehensive and ready grasp of all
that passed around. With her to see
was to appreciably realize the situation.
Ending was her favourite amusement,
although she could pull an oar and walk
a fair journey across fields; but to mount
a restive ill-tempered colt, and subdue it,
was her great delight. At the " meet " to
be second to Miss Neville was a vaunted
triumph, and many a would-be Lothario
remembered to his dying day the rich
saucy laugh with which she regarded him
rolling in the mud, whither he had followed
her, while she nimbly flew over the concealed
quagmire.

An orphan and an heiress, it is not to
be marvelled at that she absorbed the inner
thoughts of more than one love-lorn enthusiast
; but no one had hitherto ventured
on whispering a too soft sentiment, for

the simple reason, she never gave the
necessary permission.

Quick as lightning, Lucy Neville knew
what would follow, bat raising that warning
finger, and with it beating time to the
ominous words, "No, no, no; it must not
be; no more, please!" the abashed admirer
generally sought relief, inwardly
declaring, "Confound the girl! I cannot
understand her."

The subject of her warmest thoughts
was Eustace Dillon, — not that the feeling
passed the domain of the deepest, truest,
sisterly regard, but knowing his parentage,
straitened circumstances, and his proud
melancholy disposition, she often wished
he were indeed her brother. Her aunt
and guardian frequently invited Eustace to
Nevillstown, every time Lucy met him the
invitation was warmly supplemented; but,
promises notwithstanding, he was very
seldom seen there, and even these capricious
visits at length ceased altogether.

Respectful pity is a dangerous feeling to
play with in girlhood, but the self-willed
Lucy never bothered her head about it:
she had always liked Eustace Dillon, and
always would.

She was also much attached to Fanny
Chalmers, a young lady of her own age
and nearly equal position. Miss Chalmers
was the eldest child of a numerous family,
and the direct antithesis of her dear
friend Lucy Neville in every way, being
at once slow, reserved, cautious, and
plodding.

Few of her own sex cared for her, but
real admirers were still fewer among the
opposite.

This imparted to her a taciturn disposition
and ready aptitude to discount
everybody and everything to their or its
disadvantage.

Yet these two girls were fond of each
other; though, had they but known the
phases of their future life and their

respective influence thereon, they would
have anathematized the fatal hour they
first became acquainted.

For some time preceding our story a
feeling of coldness, skilfully masked, was
being generated by the calculating Fanny
Chalmers towards her companion Lucy
Neville. She could trace it to no absolute
cause, but in after-years she knew it was
the offspring of envy, a selfishness which
rose in her breast at the admiration everyone
manifested to Lucy, while herself was
neglected if not avoided.

Singularly it happened that Lucy Neville,
perspicuous and clear-sighted in all else,
did not notice the altered demeanour in
her friend, who insensibly but appreciably
grew more reticent and frigid day by day.
Eustace Dillon had often formed an embittered
subject of conversation between
them, and this morning his long-continued
absence from Nevillstown was freely commented
upon.

Fanny tartly resumed, —

"I am astonished to hear Lord Dare-court's
son and Mr. Dillon are always together
; indeed they seem close intimates. '

Oh, I am so glad Eustace has found
a companion of a kindred disposition ! " was
Lucy's ardent exclamation.

What, although this new friendship is
the cause of his sacrificing an older one ! "
added Fanny warmly ; " I do not like him
for it."

Nay," said Lucy, "I am convinced
there is another reason. I know too well
that Eustace is incapable of forgetting his
friends, much less of sacrificing them."

You forget it is not every day an heir
like the Hon. Mr. Harcourt can be consorted
with, and I am told he is positively
distingue ," was rejoined.

I suppose," retorted Lucy in a tone of
slight consequence, " the gentleman you
speak of is just what he ought to be,
neither more nor less, but you must not

forget in your fanciful admiration that
Mr. Eustace Dillon is his equal, if not his
superior, in all respects save one."

"And what is that one, pray?" was
inquired with asperity.

Paltry money."

Decidedly the most cogent, to my
mind," muttered Fanny Chalmers with a
discordant laugh.

"Why are you so unlike yourself today,
Fanny ? You know I will suffer no
one to attempt the depreciation of my
playfellow Eustace Dillon, at least in my
presence," — and Lucy looked sternly at
her companion Fanny while uttering
these words.

The latter rose hastily, and moved to
the door, observing, —

"I did not suppose that he could be
of such consequence as to cause unnecessary
irritation."

Expressing her warm resentment, Lucy
followed to the landing, where, placing her

arms round Fanny, whom she impulsively
drew towards her, she said in an almost
mechanical tone, —

It seems a dream to think of our
differing about any one or for any one.
Oh, let us forget it ; come, Fanny, kiss and
be friends ; ive cannot be any other."

Miss Chalmers submitted to, but did
not return, the affectionate greeting, and
no other word passed between them while
the former went downstairs and left the
house.

The young mistress of Nevillstown cast
herself into a chair, and vainly tried to
crash the swelling feeling within her.
Resolving to forget, she would relapse into
another vein of musing, and wake up to
find herself more deeply annoyed and
wounded. She knew her warm advances
towards reconciliation were repudiated,
and felt that a chasm loomed ominously
between herself and Fanny Chalmers.

The latter walked slowly homewards,

her immovable face suffused with a bitter
expression of revengeful annoyance as the
fostered thought grew. " She shall feel
my jealousy yet when and where it is little
expected ! Friends indeed ! never, Lucy
Neville : we can and shall henceforth be
implacable enemies."

Ah me ! what a demon is pride, or who
will curb the war-horse which a mistaken,
thoughtless word has ere now created to
devastate the home of a once trusted
friendship !

Lucy Neville suddenly started to her feet
and rang the bell, saying vehemently, —
Let me escape from this angry influence
; " when the servant entered, motioning
impatiently, — " Have Rover saddled
at once ; I will go for a long canter."

Ten minutes later she went forth from
her home at a headstrong pace, heedless
of every passing object, including Eustace
Dillon, who, amazed, saw himself disregarded
by her that out of the whole

universe he would have called his own, but
he could not.

' What can have happened ? " he thought.
Lucy Neville so absent-minded as not to
see me is a problem indeed. This path,
too, is hardly fit for her horse, though he
seemed well pleased with the fleet mission,
considering the rate at which he carried
her along."

Looking at his watch, he continued, "I
have two hours to spare, and something
impels me to follow her. Brave, nobis
Lucy ! " — as he retraced his steps, — " there
are too few like you in this adamant world
where all is selfishness and for self. Who
but you felt for me when my lot was dark
indeed, and feels for me still? and would I
not lay my life at your feet ? "

He had now reached the long, low, crest-drilled
sands, and, to his surprise, there
was Miss Neville in a dejected contemplative
posture upon her ambling horse, the
loose reins dangling idly beside his mane.

Hesitating whether to proceed or not,
Eustace Dillon mused : "I never saw Lucy
so unlike herself, but I will go to her,
although in some way I feel as thereby
anticipating a fate which it was a mercy
to postpone."

Unconscious of being watched and solicitously
followed, or that she was nearing
the low-lying rocky breakwater which had
long lain abandoned to the overpowering
accumulations of sand, Lucy Neville moved
carelessly along.

The golden sheen of those placid elastic
receding waves bore no charms for her
now, though she usually revelled in their
varying tints of crystal beauty. Nor did
the vast copies of sea-fowl energetically
pursuing them to glut on their treasures,
revealed upon the wet sand, yield her any
interest ; she was listless, sad, and dispirited,
as though for the first time in that
young life an indefinite impost was cast
and forged, portending sorrow.

Help, help !" now faintly smote her ear
from a voice on the far side of the breakwater
seawards. Rising in the saddle, she
looked in vain : nothing was to be seen
but Nature's great domain of sand and
wave, unrelieved by a single solitary object
save that guiding " black buoy" in the
distance, hardly discernible from the dark
waters which the low swift ebb hurried
against it. Again a weaker " Help "
assailed her attentive ear, and lifting the
horse with one wild convulsive bound she
sped through the rent air with an energy
of speed and purpose, sending the blood
impetuously leaping in its knotted channels.
Eustace Dillon, too far off to hear
or be heard, wondering at this sudden
violent movement, commenced running at
the top of his speed in the line whither
she was fleeing; for knowing that on
the left the course was circumscribed by
the Harcourt property, while straight in
front lay the sea, and on the right the

breakwater, he calculated on soon overtaking
her.

Overwhelmed with astonishment and
dismay, he beheld her head the fiery hunter
towards the base of the stony rift, as
back flew the layers of shells and sand
rudely disgorged by those deep indenting
horny hoofs. The tide was not wholly
out ; but, instead of shirking the small
lake which it fed, she ploughed through
it, emerging therefrom on the opposite
side scarcely recognisable by distance and
mud.

Not a trace of uncertainty was about her
now. No, she was Lucy Neville once
more, and his heart rose suffused with an
enthusiast's pride to see how both from
shoulders and arms she lifted the responsive
eager horse along.

Oh God ! " he breathlessly exclaimed:
hold, hold ! Oh, girl, you are lost, you
are lost !"

Lucy heard not, nor for the thousandth

part of a second did she waver. There
was the wide-spreading breakwater, and
her horse must carry her across its rocky
crest or they would perish. Did not that
cry for help come from one as dear or
dearer to heaven than she was ?

For an instant the proud panting animal,
with the snow-flecks upon his red nostrils,
threw forward both ears and tossed mislead
apprehensively as the rising ground appeared
in front with the dark line of
granite wall beyond ; Lucy in silence,
passed her gloved hand along his mane,
which was enough, for lashing that full
tail, bending back those ears, and lowering
his head, as though tc hide the perilous
ascent from view, Eover settled into an
even, steady, uniform motion, biding the
time for the supreme effort.

The face of the breakwater was thickly
coated with seaweed, wherein the mussel,
periwinkle, and barnacle found a slimy
home, at the top being somewhat of a

plane, but the sides were formed of
immense blocks of grey granite thrown
down indiscriminately to arrest the invasion
of sand and waves against the inner
concrete lines of the artificial structure.
Transfixed, Eustace Dillon at last observed
Lucy bend lower in the saddle as she
attempted the mad ascent, and it seemed a
map of his whole life rose spread out before
him in bold relief while contemplating the
awful venture. No, no, he couldn't, dare
not look on ; and, covering his eyes with
each handle fell upon his knees, while from
within stole up supplicatingly, " Heaven
spare her life." Now he ventured to rise
again. There she was almost on the top of
the rocky ridge ; the horse, having his own
way, makes a last plunge, his fore-feet
already bite the loose covering of the
plateau, when, alas, he falters, but Lucy's
reserved courageous strength is watchfully
at hand, and dexterously moving on Eover
they are instantly landed in safety. Not

one iota of hesitation succeeds ere horse
and rider are plunging on again towards the
end of the embankment in wildest speed
Eustace, too, is climbing its base, when,
beyond himself with surprise, he beheld
Lucy still goading her steed forward.
Twice Eover has been wheeled round to
jump into the deep waves washing the
extreme point of the breakwater, and as
often did he refuse the leap. Once more
he is faced at it, but, again refusing, Lucy
rises in the saddle and dives into the sea on
the far side from where Eustace Dillon is
running onwards.

She's mad ! " he shouted, as he threw
off his coat. " Peace be to you, Lucy
Neville. No human arm could save you
in this falling tide, but he who has long
lived for you alone will at least share your
untimely grave."

The next instant Eustace Dillon was
dividing the waves by a wide bold breast-stroke
to a floating object in the distance.

vol. i. 7

Chapter IX.

When Brien Flynn recovered consciousness,
he found himself, seated in a chair,
his face resting against the table, with his
neckcloth unloosed, and the pale young
man intently looking from the agent to
the immense chest of loose gold, and viceversa.


The expression of the stranger was one
rather of anxiety than surprise, but he
spoke not, evidently wishing the initiative
to come from across the table.

The agent had essayed to address him
more than once, but hesitated ; now, however,
summoning all his courage, he said in
faltering words, —

Who are ye, sir ? "

Dorrington Harcourt," was politely
replied.

What ! " starting in surprised attitude,
the nephew av Lord Darecoort ? "

The same."

An' cousin av Mister Vincent ? "

"Yes."

Thin ye are the gentleman as sint me
serious information be post ? "

"I am."

Oh dear ! oh dear ! " with a heavy sob,
what a load that takes av me mind I "
observed the deputy.

u Which I am glad of," responded his
observer.

A pause followed.

Manifestly there was a confluence of
unspoken feeling between them, but each
wished the other to speak first. During
this interval the agent discovered that the
valuable chest was wide open, revealing its
enormous contents. Alarmed, he jumped
up, quickly closing and locking the treasure,

when Dorrington Harcourt cynically
drawled out, " I hope there is no necessity
for this precaution, Mr. Flynn ! '

Well, sir, I'll not bate about the bush,
ye shall hav' yer share an' welkin,"
putting down a large roll of bank-notes,
"but I'd lose me life sooner nor part wit
any wan av thin golden guineas.

Ah ! " he continued in a softer tone,
"it is me only comfort to com down here
an' look at me savins," — in confusion — " I
mayne me — me — well — well, ye know
what."

I only know, Mr. Flynn' was quickly
answered, " I am very glad to make your
acquaintance, that I feel much obliged
for these notes," which he placed in his
pocket, " and that the sooner I can be of
service in enabling you to get more, the
better pleased I shall be."

Well, that's fairly spoken, for bethany
us now there ought to be no secrecy ; ye
know me book, an' I think I know vers."

The young man interrupted the agent,
saying, " It's simple enough, Mr. Flynn :
my game is, — Coin, money at any price."

Say notes instit, and allege me, sir,"
whined Brien.

Anything of value will suffice for my
purpose."

Good ! from yer litters I understand
yer father wor me lord's brother."

The pale young man winced somewhat
as he replied, " Pray do not go into that."

Mister Darecoort,I only seek to make
the road plain and ruddy bethany us.
Whatever I say, ye' 11 find I'll always thrace
ye as me shuparyor, for sure ain't ye a
rays gentleman ? "

"I ought to be one," was dejectedly
volunteered.

So ye are, an' plenty av money ye '11
hav' to keep up yer proper stain."

The young man began to look brighter
as the speaker continued, —

Well, thin, I know that ye are me lord's

nephew, bud how is id ye never met yer
cousin Mister Vincent ? "

Because I was born abroad, and only
came to England when I first heard of and
wrote to you, with what result you are
already aware. Indeed, none of my friends
know where I am at this moment."

I dare say," was drily answered ; " bud
may I ax, Mister Darecoort, how ken ye
to be where ye are at this minnie ? "

You mean in this odd apartment, I
presume ? "

Yis, an' I mayne in that other place
bryant," indicating the press.

'Tis readily told," responded the young
man : " when I arrived in Dublin, I could
not find you at the lawyer's, who advised
me, if I wished to see you particularly, to
take the Malahide road, where I would be
certain of meeting you, Well, I w T asked on
until I got near the Castle, when I inquired
of a well-built, handsome young fellow, how
I could see Mr. Flynn, and very politely he

THE OUTLAW OF WENTWOETH WASTE. 103

brought me to the door, whence the servant
showed me into your room."

Eagerly the agent interrogated, —

War he dressed in a dark blue
suite?"

"Yes."

Short jacket ? "

"Yes."

And smoked a strange lookin'
pipe ? "

He did."

Thin that wor yer cousin Mister
Vincent."

Indeed ! how odd ! "

"Ha! I'm forgetting' tho," proceeded
the deputy : " how did ye git into that
press ? "

Being of a restless, inquiring mind,"
was candidly replied, " after waiting for
you a considerable time, I strolled into a
gallery out of the room; hearing footsteps,
I retreated into a niche in the wall, which
opened at the back, leading to this

apartment. Only try, and you will see the
recess wherein I stood revolves, bringing
you to the passage I came through."

The gallery," said Brien Flynn, "ye
shake av is the strong room, where the
family papers, charters, an' valewbils are
kep ; av I'd known there wor a passage
from id to this place, 'twould hav' saved
me many a journey ; however, there's luck
in meeting' ye, — already ye're found out
more nor I learned, an' who knows what's
going' to follow ? ' '

1 ' It may be even as you say," was quietly
spoken by his auditor.

What a strange thing ! " the former
mused ; " up to an hour ago, there wor nota
soul in the world held me sanscrit : ye
see the work av years."

Come," exclaimed Mr. Dorrington
Harcourt decisively, approaching the
agent, "it is time we understood each
other. I intend to be outspoken with
you."

His listener rose up excitedly.

I know all you have to say, and all
you intend to do; now with this knowledge
in my possession, and prepared if necessary
to act upon it," — the miser dropped into
his seat with visible agitation, — " are we
to be true friends in everything ? Answer,
Yes or No."

Yis," was faltered in reply.

Shake hands upon it." Dorrington
extended his hand.

I never shake hands wit me shu-parsons."


The deputy looked upon the floor.

Bah ! " was retorted derisively, " we
cannot be one in this transaction and two
outside of it."

"Thin be id as ye say, Mister Dare-court."


You'll find no half-measures with me,
Mr. Flynn ; for weal or woe, we are now
linked together, and at the first false step on
either side, let the right man strike home."

"I don't understand ye, sir; ye see, not
been' educated, me hed is wisely withered."

"Ha, ha! " laughed the young man, adding
coldly, "You are either d d clever

or the people about here are confounded
fools, else how did you climb to this post ? "

"I often wish I wor never tempted bryant
me natural stain anyhow."

There was no doubting the bitter sincerity
of these words, and so the listener
thought as he responded, —

"I believe you; this, however, is not the
time to indulge in maudlin sentiment. If
you do not move with me, I'll split to my
uncle and upset you, but if we hold on to
our true colours, we can make our fortunes,
and I, I may become "

"What?" inquired the agent nervously.

"What! why, Lord Harcourt, of

course."

Oh, mighty stars, yer not serious? "
was echoed.

Serious, why not ? Just now you spoke

of putting my cousin out of the way !
Agreed ! but have I no better right to the
cause than you, when his death means my
inheritance and prosperity? Yes," he continued
with warmth, " my supercilious
uncle allowed me to be brought up in
poverty after my father perished poor
and unknown, in a foreign land ; since
I can remember I have vowed revenge for
the unnatural deed ; and somehow, my
new friend, if I ever doubted of success,
it is gone now, for, with your aid, the
shelter of this room, and that chest of
gold "

No, no, not the good, not the good,"
pleaded the miser.

"Any form of money will answer for
my triumph," was peevishly retorted; "but
come, Mr. Flynn, when do we start ? "

"Where for, sir? "

For the field of business — I mean
action."

All the spirit of individualism had

forsaken the agent, and he now sat the
essence of meekness, although a strange
light flickered in his cunning eye.

"Whenever ye place, Mister Dare-court."


Good ! you will follow me in all
things?"

"Yis, sir."

"I shall well repay your services."

Thank ye, sir."

And you will help me to gain possession
of the title and belongings of the
Darecourts of Darecourts ? "

I will, sir."

Then, swear it."

u I cannot, sir."

Oh yes, you can. I came provided,
for I mean to accomplish what I state.
Do you swear you will be true to your
promises ? "

I will tomorrow : don't ax me to-day,
Mister Dorrington."

A rapid smile illumined the younger

man's face as he resumed, — " Very well,
be it so."

Brien Flynn felt reassured.

"Now we understand ache other perfectly,
Mr. Warrington''

Then let us begin to move."

"How, sir?"

"You say the gallery I went into out of
your room holds all the proprietary documents
of the Harcourt family ? ' '

"Yes, sir."

Did you ever see any papers referring
to the marriage of the late Lady Dare-court
? "

"I'm not sure."

Come now, think, please; honesty, remember,
is our only chance of success."

I belay ve I did, although I'm not
s art in."

"We will remain here until you can
satisfy me."

Thin I may say as how I did — that is,
I did," was answered in a reluctant tone.

Very good," earnestly followed from
the young man, adding, " You could easily
put your hand upon them, I suppose ? '

Yis, sir, I think I cud."

That's better," said the former, with
an innocent look; " and you say they are
in the gallery I passed through in coming
here ? "

Yis, Mister Dorrington."

Then bring them to me," was sternly
demanded.

Oh, Mister Darecoort ! not now,
surely?"

Yes, now or never."

The deputy tremblingly hesitated, when,
jumping to his feet, his companion
peremptorily shouted, —

Hand me the key of that chest of
gold ! "

The palsied miser felt there was no
mistaking the man he had now to deal
with as the latter continued, —

Out with the key at once, or I'll u

Before the sentence was finished, the agent
meekly put the key on the table, sinking
on his knees as he supplicated, —

"Ye sed as how we'd take id in any
form av money, hud not the good ! "

Yes, and I will adhere to my word ;
bring me those documents, and keep your
gold."

The pleader moved to the door.

"No," interrupted his visitor, "go the
way I came : it is, as you say, nearest,"
indicating the recess wherein he, the
speaker, had first appeared.

BrienFlynn found it revolved, and entering
it, he was instantly on the outer
passage.

Quickly the young man let fall a bolt,
securing the movable structure as he said
triumphantly, " You are checkmated; this
door is fastened, the spring at the other
end of the passage only opens from the
outside, you may linger where you are
without a chance of discovery, while I can

leisurely remove this treasure as I wish.
Now hear my terms : the key is no
security, I will give it back; nor need I
touch the gold ; the parchments, too, will
answer at another time; but you return
and swear on this sacred book to help mein
becoming Lord of Harcourt, or you
shall miserably perish."

Where the prayers of the just were
wont to ascend in the days gone by, these
two men, betrothed in infamy, now kneel
and ratify their unlawful vow.

Chapter X.

Wentworth Waste, stretching away westward
towards Donabate, was widely known
as the scene of the brutal murder of the
last Earl of Wentworth, when returning
from a late debate in the Irish House"
of Lords, political rancour being universally
assigned as the motive for his
assassination.

Since this sanguinary event the Waste
had been studiously avoided, and, though
affording a short path to the town,
people preferred to continue by the highroad,
involving a longer distance of some
two miles.

Abandoned to solitude, loneliness, and
disorder, its fertile soil soon became over-vol.

i. 8

grown with a rank vegetation, spreading
out in ail directions. By a Cain-like
sin this place was cursed and ominously
shunned, yet here the lamp of Faith once
shed its assuring light, and the gable of
the stone-roofed abbey still remained,
though the roof itself was long since
broken and gone. It had never been an
extensive or imposing building, as so many
of the ecclesiastical ruins in Ireland still
prove, even in their dust ; but from its
elevated situation it commanded an exhaustive
view of the surrounding country
on every side.

Before the assassination of Lord Wentworth,
people were in the habit of frequenting
the sacred ruins, mingling their hearty,
untutored prayers with the endless stream
of thanksgiving ever going heavenwards ;
and truly it was a tit place to sober wilful
man. In the space formed by the angles
of the building were the remains of a
churchyard, long, long since disused, and

left to share the fate of the refectory
adjoining.

Throughout its whole extent there
was not a fashioned headstone or even
the remains of one, yet every slight eminence
above the level indicated the last
resting-place of one or more of the children
of nature, while a rugged, any-sized piece
of granite was stamped into the ground,
marking the head of each grave, except
where the remains of a wooden cross forbade
the unnecessary rocky addition. On a
summer evening, when the setting sun had
dipped below the horizon in its resplendent
glory, it was a fair sight to watch the villagers
talking, smoking, or knitting, while
their children gambolled in youthful ardour,
or tended the scanty flocks basking n th e
luxurious greensward adjoining that greener
hill, on the apex of which the ruins stood.

All this is now changed, most of those
actors on life's fitful stage have played out
their parts, and others have succeeded to

their places. Even of those still lingering
in this valley of time, none will now
go near the unhallowed spot, and the
night-fiends of that lonely Wentworth
Waste hold undisputed sway over its
blood-stained, dishonoured heath.

A place stamped as anti-human, and
avoided by all, was a meet resort for the
evil-minded, and here accordingly Warrington
Harcourt frequently found himself
with his confederate Brien Flynn.

Free and unreserved, from the conviction
of being alone, they soon arrived at
the conclusion that their interests and
intentions were one, and so they appeared
to be, but it was a superficial view, at
heart each deeply mistrusted the other.

The younger man was clearly master
of the situation, and indeed this was but
the natural sequence of the cool, authoritative
air he invariably assumed towards
the deputy. Leaning against the faded,
time-decayed portal of the ruin, Dor

linton leisurely smoked a foreign, sweet-scented
cigar, while with his walking-cane
he tossed a human bone idly about, now
backwards, now forwards.

The agent dare not express his natural
feeling of dislike, but kept his head away
from the disagreeable sight, sitting at
a respectful distance, waiting rather to
answer than to inquire anything.

The former listlessly uttered, —

Some poor devil once would have
missed this atom ; now out of the whole
world there's not one to own it ; nay, the
earth itself rejects it, else why disgorge
this, and retain others?"

Again the osseous segment was disported
in the air.

"Ah, sir, don't; ye giv me a megrum
lookin' at ye ; do put id aside."

The young man smiled as he replied, —

Perhaps you are right after all ; who
can tell what mind may have been enshrined
within the creature of whom this

was a member, or what achievements
may not have, even indirectly, grown
out of the body whereof it formed a
constituent part ? "

The speaker took the bone in his hand,
continuing, —

Methinks the earth could hardly set
thee free, and still hold captive the spirit
hid in the casement of which thou wert
a segment : but come, thou hast served
my purpose of brief thought, — hence ! go
where other skeleton offal will keep thee
company."

And lifting the long residuum of bygone
manhood, he cast it into the ruins, wherefrom
a slight scream immediately followed.
The agent at once rose up alarmed ; but
his companion had already gone in quest
of the source of their sudden surprise. At
the rear of the ruins, standing in trepidation,
was a young lady, on seeing whom
Dorrington politely raised his hat saying,
in a courteous, easy voice,

I sincerely trust that I have not been
the cause of your alarm ? "

Thank you, sir, it is not serious "

hesitating. " I wandered to this place
from curiosity, not thinking of meeting
any one, and just now something dropped
at my feet, causing me to feel a little
frightened."

He laughed lightly, continuing in an
apologetic tone, —

I am the delinquent, as I flung that
i something ' in this direction ; not, I assure
you" (and he looked earnestly art
her), " contemplating so unfortunate a
result."

Throughout Dorrington spoke with
uncovered head, and a possessed, gentlemanly
bearing.

I am much obliged, sir, for your consideration
in so trifling a matter, and I
wish you good morning," responded the
young lady.

I hope ye're quite well, Miss Fanny ? "

said the agent, emerging from behind the
ruins.

Oh, yes, thank you, Flynn, this gentleman
"

'Tis Mister Darecoort, miss," interrupted
Brien.

Dorrington afterwards recollected the
colour warmly tinging her face on hearing
these words.

Mr. Harcourt, son of Lord Dare-court
? ' ' she inquired eagerly.

"Yes," answered Dorrington, bowing.

Excuse my seeming curiosity," she
continued ; " my surprise was to find anyone
in this place ; it has such a hard,
cruel reputation, and I shall be glad to
leave it."

I know but little of the place or its
antecedents — nor as a rule do I incline
much to popular prejudice — but its loneliness
is a great charm to me."

At that instant a heavy raindrop caused
them to look up, when the deputy said, —

u 'i

'Tis a storm, Miss Fanny ; I knew id
wor hanging' about all the morning' be me
poor corns. Ha ! there it goes," as a flash
of lightning was followed by its attendant
thunder, " com, miss, the only shelter is
the ould ruins," whither all three immediately
betook themselves.

And truly it was a storm : an almost
incredible change o'er the visage of nature,
and so sudden.

Seaward the sky was one huge black
canopy of darkest night, obscuring the
neighbouring hills ; indeed, nothing was*
recognizable, so effectually and quickly did
this pall of concealment settle down on
everything ; even beside you the ebony
shadow was seemingly real and startlingly
abrupt. Down came the tempest of rain,
while the searching lurid flashes careered
in wild dismay, reaching the furthermost
recesses in the ruin. Louder and yet
more loud arose that rolling murmur of
colliding elements, relieved only (if relief

it were) by the sound of the clanging surf
raging upon the distant shore.

Fanny Chalmers, for it was she, was
greatly alarmed, hut, heedless of her refusals,
Mr. Harcourt divested himself of
his outer coat to protect her from the rain
failing through that roofless, ruined record
of time.

Not many minutes had elapsed while
these persons remained together ere they
felt a chord of mutual interest awakening
within them, and indeed this was reflected
from their tell-tale eyes.

Brien Flynn's face assumed a slight
hectic tinge of interest, and from time to
time he looked towards the hills opposite,
watching for the break in the storm.

It came at last, as suddenly passing
away as had been its advent. Joyous
nature shook off its dewy mantle and
beamed forth, renewed and reinvigorated
by the contest with its late tempestuous
assailant.

Gracefully returning the timely covering,
Miss Chalmers feelingly said, —

"I shall always recollect the kindness
shown me by you, Mr. Harcourt."

To which he warmly responded, —

"And I can never forget even so brief
an interval of happiness, although I have
not the pleasure of knowing to whom such
trifling services were rendered."

Fanny Chalmers of Failed," and she
turned to depart.

The agent swiftly whispered in the
young man's ear, —

I'll keep her company to the highroad;
stay till I com back. Good-bye,
sir," he added aloud, in a make-believe
voice, " good-bye, Mister Vincent," and
he followed the retreating female form in
the distance.

How strange!" mused Dorrington
Harcourt, regarding them both. " Yesterday
I heard her name for the first time,
when Flynn said she was the only girl in

the country whose family could and would
join in my venture for their private ends,
yet to-day it seems as though already our
future were intermixed in some realistic
fashion, though I cannot fathom the mystery
without Flynn's help ; so here goes,
another weed and another think about
you, Fanny Chalmers."

Turning to look for a seat, a figure
noiselessly issued from the ruins and stood
confronting him. It was that of an immensely
powerful square-built man, with
sandalled feet, an enormous head of hair,
and beard reaching to his waist, almost
concealing his tanned face. A coarse
faded blue suit, narrow-crowned hat ; and
in his hand a heavy knotted stick, his
waist encircled by a thick leathern belt, in
which were placed a brace of pistols, a
hunting-knife, and a drinking-horn. Of
such formidable proportions, he yet spoke
in a hushed, low voice, taking no notice

of the start his appearance caused to
his astonished observer.

You are Vincent Harcourt ? "

So Brien Flynn said."

Then you know Eustace Dillon?"

« Yes. I— I "

That will suffice. This particular
paper is entrusted to you for him."

By whom?' was asked in blank
wonder.

Michael 0' Grady, the outlaw," saying
which the strange man cleared the
hedge in front and was lost to view.

CHAPTEK XI.

Lord Harcourt's nephew and the agent
paced slowly backwards and forwards in a
very secluded part of the large estate, the
former with a light, jaunty air, while the
latter hung his head and seemed unusually
reserved ; this portion of the Harcourt
property approximated to the sea-shore,
and in winter became the resort of numberless
members of the feathery genus
who in hard weather betake themselves
inland.

As these two confederates walked up and
down they glanced covert looks of a half-slumbering
suspicion at each other, betokening
mistrust, although, of the two,
Dorrington was least sceptical, that furtive

hasty gleam of concern from the agent
vividly bespeaking a mind ill at ease.

Ye say she is fitted wit everything,"
proceeded the latter.

You mean the boat, I presume?"
was replied.

Av course I do, sir."

Then she is."

Guns, powder, shot, an' oars ? "

"Yes, all are ready."

That's right."

"But it's the fourth or fifth time you (
have repeated these questions," remonstrated
the younger one.

An' av it wor the hundredth time,
what matter, sir ? I'm only anxious
there'll be no mistake."

There shall be none. If my cousin
wishes to make away with himself, he will
have ready means whereby to gratify his
taste. But, Flynn, you exhibit a concern
in the result that I am insensible to."

Three, for ye, sir, I am concerned till

id's all over. Whin starting' the business
I had no day 'twould com' to this."

To what ? " demanded his auditor.

Why, to our disgrace an' his death,
for both it will be."

Do not indulge in these gloomy forebodings.
Think that I shall be Lord
Harcourt, and you, my friend and agent.' '

"Never, sir," was answered by the agent,
with a remarkable severity of voice.

And why not, may I inquire ? '

Bekayze, Mister Dorrington, me grate
hope is to finish this deed an' escape to
some furinn land, where unknown I'd
linger till the day corns when I'll slide
out av this world to — to — never mind
where — any place '11 be too good."

"You under-estimate yourself, Flynn.
So far as I am concerned, there shall be
but one consideration. If we succeed, we
must share the gain ; otherwise, why
remain on as you are. I will not interfere
with you."

"Not now, sir ; 'tis too late. The saint
av the good is in me blood, an' I want to
grip id. No matter av id ends in murther,
only let id be don quickly."

How will it affect you if my cousin
does not follow your advice ? "

Bud he would me this morning' as
how he'd like to shoot an the rocks,
av course I sed he nivir had an day
av the fine short it wor. Ha ! ha !
ha!"

"What if he can swim, Flynn ? "

"I thought av that, sir, an' axed him.
No,' ses he, ' I can't put wan foot afore
another in the father.' Invade, he went
an till I found out he couldn't even hould
an oar, so thinks I, that'll do."

But how can he impel that boat, or
why have the oars in her at this moment ? ' '
w T as inquired.

"A make-belay ve, Mister Dorrington.
I assure ye av he went without thin 'twould
seem serious. Ses I, 'We've only to let

vol. i. 9

her thrift along av her own account; she'll
throw ye there an' back.' "

His companion smiled as he observed, —
Harmless advice certainly."
To the innishint all things are in-wishing."


A feeble leer followed this attempted
witticism of the agent.

How shall we know the coveted results
? " the young man interrupted.

Be remaining' where we are. Fist hide
away a trifle, while I'm holding parley.
Whin he starts we'll giv him the benefit
av our attentive eyesight, till the consent is
takin out av him this side av the grave."
Flynn, who is that walking along so
leisurely on the road opposite ? " pointing
to the figure indicated.

Let me see," answered the deputy ;

'tis Miss Chalmers av Failed. Now

that ye're put id in me head, av ye cud

git an the right side av her we'd do well'

Why so ? " was inquired.

Bekayze her ould father is a notorious
lawyer, an' she an' he id both go to a
martin place for grandeur. Another thing,
she's intimate wit all the high families,
an 'twould he no trouble to her to git
hould av what's necessary to shut up
our enemies."

To whom do you allude?" inquired
Lord Harcourt's nephew.

"That cub Dillon, av course," was
fiercely replied.

There could be no necessity, Flynn ;
with the death of my cousin my position
becomes an absolute fact."

There's many a ship 'twixt the cup
an' the lip, Mister Dorrington. That
Dillon sees farther nor most av us."

"Oh! this is childish; you must have
another and a deeper reason for enmity
towards this person."

"I hav, he want had me down, an'
struck me ; an' I vow id won't be long
afore I pay him aff wit tenfold interest,

till I blast him an' his bryant the chance
av recovery."

The declaimer turned suddenly and
resumed his perturbed walk, while his
companion looked on vacantly. A shot
in the woods now agitated them.

Quick, Mister Warrington ! " said
Flynn; " hide ; that's him," motioning
whence the sound proceeded. " Ye'll
hear what passes bethany us. When
he's gon we'll give him our blessing' an
his long journey."

"Here goes, then. His father allowed
mine to die in need. When I see his
son dying for want of assistance, kindred
in its necessity if not in form, I w T ill
be content." Whereupon Dorrington
Harcourt disappeared in the copious
wild surroundings as his cousin came
in sight.

"Ah! is that you?" said the young
heir of Harcourt, pleasantly approaching
Brien Flynn.

Troth id is. Bud had yer honour
any luck? "

Not much; the birds are timid on
the wing to-day."

See, sir, the coveys an the sands
panther, following' the tide."

Oh, yes ! yes ! "

"Well, sir, at slack father, which 'tis
fast coming' to, they'll be there in cartloads,
just bey ant thin black rocks,"
moving his finger seawards.

"Indeed! But observe," interrupted
the heir, " what strange dark bird is that
flying so curiously and so low ? Why, it
is now settling on these very rocks you
pointed to."

"A cormorant, sir; fine shooting', an
ye '11 see within, divers, an' wild duck as
well."

How I wish I could get there ! " uttered
Vincent Harcourt with enthusiasm.

"Well, as I would yer honour afore,
ye're only to sit aizey in the boat ; the

current' 11 carry ye down wit the last
quarter, which id now is, an' bring ye
back an the first av the flood."

Unfortunately I have no ammunition
large enough," was answered in accents
of regret.

"Oh! that same's soon don; there's
the boat ruddy shocked, for I had a notion
yer honour might wish for the three
short."

Thank you ; it is very thoughtful, and
I will gladly avail myself of the chance."

The agent bit his lip as he answered, —

'Tis no prate, sir, I need, for
wouldn't I do more nor that for me
lord's son ? "

Declining the latter' s company but repeating
his thanks, Vincent Harcourt went
downward ; bounding over the dwarfed
foliage and the open sandbank which succeeded,
he speedily made his way to the
small lake, where the boat floated with
everything in its proper place. Nimbly

casting off the painter, the light open skiff
crept gently along in the falling tide,
gliding towards the breakwater, whither
the current tended. Meanwhile the deputy
and his confederate stood concealed behind
the brushwood, eagerly noting each move
of their predestined victim. Brien looked
terribly anxious and preoccupied ; the
other leisurely produced the accustomed
weed, finding a solace in its soothing
effects.

After a continuance for some time of
this silent observation, the young man
inquired, —

Why are you so thoughtful, Flynn ? "

Arrah, why not, sir, see the difference
that little boat '11 make to me."

And to me," interposed the expectant
heir, " but it's all over with him now.
You may wind up his day-book any
moment. Here, tell me more about that,
what is it you call her ? "

Chalmers, sir. What I sed is three,

bud another time '11 do for that; let's
hav this job don lane an' complete
afore we begin something fresh."

"It is positively amusing to see you
so excited, when you must know he is
fast drifting to his last quarters."

I'll not make sure, sir, till id's over,
so many strange things turn up generally
at the wrong time, so just kindly let me
hav me own way for a few linnets, thin
I'll be a new man."

"Be it so, my zealous friend," answered
his companion, blowing a thin cloud,
adding, " why, assuredly my sporting coz
has an oar in hand, though you said he
could not row."

So he would me, sir. Bad luck to me
misfortune ! can it be he wor fooling' me ? oh
murther ! " letting fall his hands dejectedly.
Almost instantly he seized his neighbour,
exclaiming, " He can't row evidently, the
pace is too slow, an' he thought as how
he'dthry. Bud see, hurrah! hurrah! he's

put the oars away ! " rubbing his palms
gleefully.

"A splendid shot certainly!" was
affirmatively uttered by the younger
man, as the occupant of the boat
brought down a wild duck quite sixty
yards distant.

The maimed bird fell heavily into the
placid sea, upon which the sportsman made
herculean efforts to reach it. With a
single oar in hand, standing towards the
stern, he alternately indulged in splashing
efforts on each side of the boat. The"
spectacle was ludicrous to those who could
handle a scull, but it sufficed, however, and
after rude prodigious labours at the expense
of breath and muscle, the skiff lurched
from under the protection of the breakwater
into the open sea, when the wounded
fowl duly became a captive. There was
a look of admiration about the agent's
companion, which he did not attempt to
repress, as he watched the slovenly exploit,

although not an atom of fellow-feeling or
pity was in that dissolute face.

But Brien Flynn was wholly beside
himself, not a feature moved, nor did he
seem to breathe, so fixed was the glare
in his ashy countenance.

"Who is that elegant horsewoman
ambling on the sands, Flynn ? " inquired
Dorrington Harcourt.

Scarcely deigning to turn, the deputy
answered in a hard, resonant voice, —

The bravest, finest teddy in Ireland ;
bud look," he shouted, " see, see, now we
hav him, he's in the full showing av the
toideatlasth, that's what I've bin watching.
Hurrah, we're near the mark. See how the
boat shoots along, sticky there she goes,
nothing' though to the swim she'll hav ina
minnie, ha! ha! ha! " swaying about in
frenzied delight, his greedy eyes glowing
with demoniacal fire, while his companion,
though manifestly deeply absorbed, neither
moved nor spoke. And of a truth

the trim craft sped lightly and swiftly
along, to the growing concern of the
heir of Harcourt, who, feeling alarmed
at the increasing pace, vainly plied the
powerless oar on either side, as he had
done before, but it was of no avail in
that pent-up sea.

The full tide stretched far up into the
beautiful estuary, but declining and
coming to its lowest level, it fell slowly
and steadily therefrom, impinging upon
the side of the long breakwater which
restrained and thwarted its natural course.
Under this shelter the sea was calm and
languid in its onward flow, but as the tide
waned lower, beyond its rocky protecting
influence the current shot out with violent
increasing rapidity, its whole force converging
towards the furthermost point of
that sheltering barrier, which it rounded
with irresistible power, exhausting its
energies in the wide waters of Dublin Bay.
The abortive struggle of Vincent Harcourt

to restrain the skiff was cruel sport for
his two observers.

"Bah ! " muttered the Harcourt agent,
sit down an' make yer mind up. Ye
caught me be the throat, ye did, and soon
the conger and crab '11 munch yer's. See,
at last he's in the thick av the current.
Oh, ye fool, av we'd only let her alon she
might weather the bank herself'. Bad
luck to the chance, or av ye just tilt her
aff whin she touches, we'd be safe in the
open ocean bryant ; an' who wouldn't be
after marching' from Lambay to the Isle
av Man for the heir av Darecoort. Bud,
hurrah, hurrah, just as I guessed, he's
struggling in the boat wit her hed down in
the father, an still he's jumping' from
side to side. Bravo, bravo, now she's
swinging' for the pint. Bang, she's over!
Thrown, heir av Darecoort, an' ye, me
young lord, liv to be happy."

Dorrington Harcourt moved not, irresistibly
he thought, "What is the worth of

this fellow's felicitations, one gone, and so
soon another," but suddenly their eyes
are fixed on that giddy flight of rider
and horse towards the granite wall.

Why, it's the bravest, finest lady in
Ireland," observed the recently acclaimed
heir of Dare court.

Yis, my curse an her," hissed Brien,
she'd risk her life to save any wan's ; bud
here I'll stop her gallop."

He raised the gun left on the spot by
its late owner, pointing it at the flying
steed. However, the flint missed fire,
and, muttering a deep imprecation, he
dropped it, adding, —

"What matter! See, there goes the
boat bottom upwards, an' where is he ?
nowhere, ha ! ha ! ha ! "

As Yincent Harcourt was sinking for
the last time, his strained, wild, hopeless
glance drank in the sight of two figures in
the distance, one of whom stood gleefully
gesticulating towards him, while nearer at

the end of the breakwater a female form
rising from her struggling horse, and
plunging into the waves, imperiously
smote them aside in her onward career
of impulsive devotion.

Chapter XII.

Some years ago, before the period of which
we now write, Michael O'O'Grady, Esq., was
bracketed Bea. at old Trinity, and soon
after left the Alma Mater to essay his
future as a lawyer in the then wealthy,
class-divided city of Dublin.

O'O'Grady's enormous physical proportions
were in keeping with his heart, often
naively said to be " as big as a bullock's,"
and although there were none of the ephemeral
qualities of worldly grace or superficial
embellishment about him, nature was
well represented in its truest form by that
ponderous man, at once honest, educated,
and humane, and with this disposition in

the adolescent period of life, need it be
affirmed he was widely known and
esteemed. The student was very fond of a
spree, minus those broad, coarse, sottish
characteristics too often disfiguring mankind,
mentally and physically ; but one
where the lighter vein within sought free
scope in a friendly, quick-witted repartee,
and where for a short hour those like
himself abandoned the realities of life,
finding repose in forgetting them.

He was a copious debater, earnest and
eloquent in speech, but above all revelling
in the facility wherewith he disconcerted
his wordy antagonists, rapidly returning
their specious utterances, adroitly distorted
to a different meaning to that which
they were manifestly intended to convey.
Before leaving " Trinity," some of its
kindred spirits had established a private
club, called the " Night Lovers," under his
inspiration, and so select and recherche did
it speedily become, that it was considered

no small distinction to gain enrolment
amongst the elite of its motherhood.

His home was at Greenwood, Artane,
and though not of the national religion, his
greatest friends were to be reckoned among
that numerous body of his countrymen,
the village pastor figuring foremost in
the ranks of his chief intimates.

Ireland at the time being on the eve of
a civil war, that most unrighteous of all
contests, it was very hard, if not impossible,
to withstand the temptation to range
yourself on one side or other of the belligerents,
at all events in sympathy, if not ina
more active form.

Following the public bent, the " Night
Rovers " fast drifted from their avowed
character of being non-political, degenerating
into two hostile camps, wherein the
national party were numerically much
inferior to the opposite faction, but immeasurably
their superiors mentally and
physically.

vol. i. 10

Deprecatingly and regretfully O'O'Grady
beheld this retrocession of the vessel he
had created and piloted to the anchor of
an impartial, generous neutrality, in the
end wholly absenting himself from his
one favourite resort, sooner than become
identified with either side of malcontents,
esteeming it to be the safest
course, as indubitably the masterly didactic
arguments of the nationalists were
permeating through his open unprejudiced
nature.

At this juncture we find him, one cold,
wretched day, standing outside the front
gates of his ancestral home, when a poor
old man accosted him. His ready 
was as usual available ; but
to his surprise, the old man thankfully
declined it, saying, —

God bless ye, sir ! "lis not money I
want, bud work."

What? work!" was exclaimed in
surprise, " surely whoever has hitherto

employed you will not now let you seek
work elsewhere, or what is more just,
allow you to labour at all."

Ah ! sir," answered his emaciated
listener, " 'tis not long I'll be beholden'
to any wan, me heart is bruce ! " and
burying his face in his white, transparent
bony hands, he reclined against the gatepost.


Without speaking another word, O'O'Grady
took the unresisting, sobbing man to a
seat close by, intuitively feeling there was*
something unusual in his bereft, decrepid
condition. After a painful suspense he
said soothingly, —

Come, my friend, it will do no good
to give way to grief : have courage —
tell me the cause of your trouble, and
depend on my assistance as far as
possible."

Ye little know me trouble," was
responded with vehemence, "this morning'
I had a home, now I'm roofless, an' —

an' " he broke down with grief that

would not be denied, adding through his
sobs, " Me wife sits be the roadside, too
ill to move, even the old pigs-stye we
built wor thrown down sooner nor let
her lie in it."

"Oh, heavens!" passionately exclaimed
his visitor. "Answer quickly, who did
this damnable deed ? "

The agent, sir."

"Whose agent?"

Sir Marvyn Marvyn's, sir."

Mr. Arkwright is a friend of mine,
it cannot be him ! "

He's agent for Sir Marvyn Marvin,"
said the old man bitterly.

So he is ; but tell me more of your
case — there must be an error somewhere."

Ah, sir, I wish there wor," and he
feebly smiled, adding, " ye '11 soon judge
for herself."

That is what I wish to do," his
observer replied.

Well, sir, to begin. Tis years ago
since I bekem winning av the stubble
mountain land av Dangan."

Which I know very well," interposed
0' Grady.

Yis, av course, sir, so ye wud. Well
there wor nine acres in all ; after me
day's hard work, or afore I started in the
morning', I'd do all I cud to turn id over,
pick the loads av stones, and gid idriddy
for tillage, bit be bit. I succeeded till I
had me first crap, which gav' me grate
pluck, an' from wan thing to another, I
got an till I built a slate house, mind ye,
not a mud cabbin, got a smart, useful,
pony, a heifer, an' half-a-dozen bonnets,
altogether making' five out av the nine
acres fit for the shade. Thin the rent
wor nearly doubled, so as I cudn't help id
I had the diskreshun to hould me tongue.
At this time the Lord blessed us wit a
weaken little stranger, an' poor Biddy
felt the happiest woman in the world at

having' wan child at lastly. Things went
an smiling' an' I war beginning' to lookout
for ' Biddy ' (that's the name the
colleen got, sir, and wasn't id natural,
seem' as how her mother wor called so
afore her?) whin the hard times sit in an us.
Ah ! sure, there id is, afore me eyes at
this very minnie,' ' and he stretched out his
hands, while his voice grew quicker and
louder. " There wor the black night anus
again in troth, the smell av that horrible
blight, aytin in at the already wake
timbers, med us sick in mind an' body,
known' too well as how id spelt ruin and
starvation ; ye may depend, sir, as I got
up day after day to see the incrasin
struggle, me mind began to giv way ; at
last the poor ould pony had to go, an'
id didn't take long till the rest followed
shute, for behold ye, I wor punctual wit
the rent, known' av I didn't we'd be left
without a roof to shelter us.

In spite av all, me poor wife an'

daughter never give way, at haste so far as
I cud see, bud used to say to me, ' God'll
bless yer labours in His own time,' so
I tried to say me prayers regularly. Well,
thin, sir, after going through all this an'
beginning to recover like, me poor child

Biddy tuck ill, an' — an' " again there

was a paroxysm of tears, when his attentive
and sympathetic listener said, —

I would not allow you to proceed
with this dismal recital, except for my
wish to befriend you."

Thank ye, sir, the ind isn't far aff. Me
poor girl died, things went to the bad, an'
I lost heart intirely, having' no money, after
berlin' her daysintly, to go an wit. The
first year's rent I ever owed now ken due,
an' the agent, Mister Arkwright, sed he
must hav the money. I would him how I
wor situated, bud he sed as how id wor no
affair av his, he shut do his orders from
t'other master. He served me wit a
jickmint. Me wife's health gev way at

this, an' I put all me wits to work to rowl
in a good harvest, pay me way, an' git
Biddy an her legs again as I would the
agent from time to time ; but it placed
God for poor Biddy to git worse instit
av better, an' at last I walked in to
Marcer's Hospital this morning' for advice —
no small journey, sir, at me years — whin,
what d'ye think?" — as, rising from the
seat, he puts his face close to his anxious
listener's ear — " gittin' home, sir, I tuck
a short cut, an' coram' out suddenly at
the usual place, I saw "

"What ? Quick, man ! " exclaimed
O'O'Grady.

The home I bill barred an' bolted —
the sheds at the back thrown down, me
bits av furniture ]yin' about in all directions,
an' me poor wife thryin' to sit up
again the door post, where wan av the
labours — God bliss thin ! — propped her
up wit a pillow."

The withered speaker now utterly

exhausted, though tearless, sank heavily
into his seat.

The young man almost forced the blood
through his compressed lips brooding
over the painful narrative. Suddenly
collecting himself, he energetically said, —

This shall not be allowed. Come with
me to the agent at once."

'tis kind av ye, sir; but 'tis no use,"
responded the subject of his pity, shaking
his head mournfully.

Commending the latter to the apt solicitude
of the servants, who already began
to place a comfortable meal before that
instance of outraged humanity, 0' Grady
hastily assumed his hat, and, with his large
thinking eyes fixed on the fast-retreating
earth, hurried to the outer gate ; issuing
therefrom, his path was momentarily
arrested by a crowd moving towards
Dublin, and on nearing a bystander he
inquired, —

What is the matter?"

u 'Tis poor Bob Doyle's dead wife,"
was answered.

The cause of her death must have
been unusual, I suppose?" the inquirer
observed innocently.

Unusual ! — not very," was retorted
with marked derision as the voice continued,
— "While her husband went to
Marcer's Hospital this morning' they turned
her out av house an' home, though they
knew she wor dying' ; but now, thank God,
she's gon where there's no agents."

With the vital fluid heaving in his hot
veins, O'O'Grady was beside himself until he
stood face to face with his acquaintance,
Eobert Arkwright, Sir Mervyn Mervyn's
deputy, for was not the husband of that
dead woman now waiting his return in
his father's house ?

11 Halloa ! what's amiss?" exclaimed
Arkwright in a tone of wonder as the
excited face of the former was suddenly
revealed.

You evicted a woman from Dangan
this morning ? ' '

U I did," was calmly answered.

Did you know the unfortunate creature
was dying?"

My dear fellow," followed in a bantering
tone, "if we gave credence to all we
hear, our business would tumble to pieces."

The eviction was for rent ?"

It was."

A year's?"

Yes, but it is drifting into another half
year' s. ' ' The agent became somewhat displeased
as he continued coldly, " Really,
I do not see "

However, he was decisively interrupted
by the visitor demanding, —

"Did you know there is a large growing
crop on the land at this moment ?"

Of course I did."

Why not be content to hold it for the
rent? Surely it will more than pay
you."

My orders are from Sir Mervyn Mervyn
alone," was pertinently retorted.

Unmindful of this 0' Grady proceeded, —

'Cannot you allow the probable value
of this crop — over and above the rent
due?"

His auditor laughed boisterously, saying,
" Whew — whew, what a Utopian,
good-natured idea — ha ! ha ! ha ! "

Then," was inquired firmly, " am
I to understand you decline to aid the
evicted, even to any extent ? "

Come, come," drawled the agent sullenly,
" this is going too far. The landlord
is travelling goodness knows where at the
moment, but if this man sends me a
respectful petition, admitting he has been
dealt fairly with and soliciting some assistance,
I will endorse it, and suggest that he
should get a trifle the next time I have
an opportunity of communicating with
Sir Mervyn."

"Robert Arkwright," resumed 0' Grady

solemnly, " the husband of that dying,
evicted woman came to me, a stranger, for
help ; and knowing his case, I ask you
fairly, what will you do for the sake of
honesty and humanity ? "

"You've got my answer," was replied
with hauteur.

Am I to accept that as your final
resolve ? "

Certainly, I can do no more."

Not when I tell you that, as I came
here, I met the dead body of that wretched
woman being carried to undergo the
mockery of an inquest, though her still
more wretched husband does not yet
know of it ? " he vehemently rejoined.

This whole proceeding is more than
absurd, and I want to end it ! " exclaimed
the middleman wrathfully.

It shall end," was answered in a determined
manner.

I will hear no more," said the former,
moving to the door. "We have acted

within the spirit of the law, and, if it be
true of that old woman, it is as good to
die in one place as another," was added
half smilingly by Arkwright.

Smothering his rising passion, 0' Grady
went close np to him, saying slowly,
"When I go back, that old man will
hear your reply, and ask me what he is
to do."

Then by all means tell him," came
from the agent in a smooth tripping voice.

"Yes, sir," was replied; " and I shall
advise him to do exactly as I would were
I in his position. Do you know what that
is?"

The listener's eye quailed under the
glare. of fierce, undaunted purpose, yet he
attempted to laugh it off, saying it must
be something worth knowing.

"What is it, pray?"

"Blood for blood! " shouted O'O'Grady.
You and your master-confederate are the
real murderers of that wretched woman,

and I'd hew you both down with as little
mercy as was shown to her."

The deputy w T as neither a small man nora
coward, but he faded into utter nothingness
before that giant form waiting the
semblance of a chance to annihilate him.

Why surely," he muttered, "you
must be insane, knowing the law protects
me."

Then my curse be upon so unjust a
law ! " was wrathfully exclaimed, " shielding
the wretch who dare not avow as a man
the dishonouring deed perpetrated under
its regis."

I cannot account for this marvellous
transition."

The amazed look of the middleman
attested the truthfulness of his remark.

"Enough," answered O'O'Grady in high
sounding tones; "we meet no more as
friends. You pursue the phantom of a
false security built on fraud and legalized
infamy, from this hour I am devoted to

one purpose — one honest, unchanging determination.
Yes!" he added, with a
proud look and heaving chest, " dear,
dear Ireland, home of my fathers, become
now the home and centre of my only ambition,
my only hope, thy independence.
Henceforth my every thought shall be
thine ; and, oh ! welcome the death that
consecrates thy freedom in my blood ! '

CHAPTEK XIII.

The all-absorbing topic in the neighbourhood,
in the city, indeed far and near, was
the gallant rescue of Lord Harcourt's
only son and heir by Lucy Neville. Of
course, it was generally believed that they
were either affianced or related, but when
it became authoritatively known that the
two actors in this eventful scene (largely
heightened by supplementary additions of
details, however apocryphal), were positively
unknown to each other, the interest
in it deepened, while the admiration of the
would Miss Neville " increased.

Public opinion was in this groove of
warm, hearty regard for the young mistress
of Nevillstown, when it received a great

vol. i. 11

shock in the unexpected, much regretted
news that the illness thought at first to
be a mere cold, consequent upon her abrupt
immersion in the sea, and exhausted state
when recovered therefrom, had developed
into inflammation of the brain of an acute
form. The anxiety to hear the last
authentic report assumed the semblance
of some expected national disaster, whereof
the latest bulletin was greedily waited.
All of those whom she included amongst
her friends were constant in their inquiries,
while many a name unknown was inscribed
amid the multifarious number
filling the call-book, moved thereto by
glowing accounts of the intrepid Lucy and
her ever-to-be-remembered heroic exploit.

Meanwhile the subject of so much sympathy
and engrossing interest lay in her
darkened chamber, rolling her restless,
wearied head on the moist, yielding pillow.

The fever was one of those wherein the
wasting force is long ruthlessly exerted,

and the practised disciple of Aesculapius
rather hopes for the best than prognosticates
the issue, as it were waiting upon
the malady — throughout its changeful uncertainties
and varying phases.

The result of the frequent professional
consultations was, that "much depended
on the physical constitution of the patient
herself," and the sapient diagnosis proved
correct. After deceiving all by the length
of its continuance, the fever slowly abated,
finally leaving her, but ah, how changed !

Inert, torpid, and fragile, she lived, yet
seemed lifeless. It was a severe struggle,
and, though emerging victorious therefrom,
the tale of long unconscious suffering was
sternly revealed in that apathetic body and
pallid, ashy face.

The eyes retained some of their wonted
fire, and, unobserved, would richly sparkle
in their normal lustre, only however to be
succeeded by an utter depletion of physical
force. By easy transitions from chair

to chair, she began walking slowly — so
slowly — about her bedroom, finally, in a
graduated atmosphere, making her way
to the outer apartment.

Her condition now became so assured,
that little restraint was necessary ; thus we
see her roaming the house at will, — at
length essaying a transient walk mid the
beautiful parterre of roses stretching at
her feet.

All reticence and reservation being now
past, an attempt was made by her aunt to
lead the conversation back to the nearly
fatal day on which the accident occurred,
but, divining that probably the subject
would end in a homely paraphrase, Lucy
dexterously avoided it. Gradually she
began to know of the interest generally
felt in her recovery ; but the absence of
two names in the visitors' book occasioned
her much thought, namely, Fanny Chalmers
and Eustace Dillon.

The former she dismissed with scorn ;

what she had said to Miss Chalmers at
their last meeting, recollecting the demand
it made upon her pride and its manifest
unsuccess in reconciling them, she would
have recalled, if she could, as wasted on
the saturnine crafty Fanny, but what of
the other ?

One evening, summoning up unusual
courage, she wrote reproaching him with
neglect; "although," she thought, "he
has a strong motive in whatever he
does, strange though his absence may,
appear."

An hour later on Eustace was ushered
in, looking more melancholy than she had
ever previously noticed. Taking both her
wasted hands, he gazed long, tenderly,
and earnestly at her, his eyes softly filling
with tears while saying, —

Oh, Lucy, how old I have grown in
the desire to see you, once more to
know ' ■

Then what kept you away, Mister

Forgetfulness ? " she inquired, with a
bright, clear smile.

Kept me away ! ' ' he echoed in surprise,
did not Dr. Dease's assistant visit me
each day to prevent my coming ! Even so
late as yesterday he called with your intimation
to this effect, which I regretted,
but dare not question."

There is some deep mystery involved
in this," she mused; "directly or indirectly.
I knew nothing about it, and
I am convinced no person in this house
was aware of it."

"You amaze me, Lucy; did you not
decline to see Mr. Yincent Harcourt ere
he went away ? "

"I am perfectly innocent of either the
wish or its declension. I presume," she
added, "this is the gentleman whom I
helped to save."

And whom you did save," rejoined
Eustace Dillon emphatically ; " if you had
not supported him when on the verge of

sinking for the last time, while you yourself
held on to the boat, he must undoubtedly
have been drowned."

Come now, Eustace," she said, with
an admonishing tone, " you rescued him
and myself, but as usual you prefer to
attribute the merit to another."

Upon my honour, this is a mistake.
I wish my dear friend Yincent Dare-court
were here to verify my statement ;
it was for this he wished to thank you
personally ere returning to England, finally
accomplishing it by letter."

Which I have not received," she decisively
answered.

l Oh, Lucy ! there is some dreadful deceit.
I often wondered why my friend was consigned
to absolute incivility, though I had n o
chance of inquiring into the cause before."

Eustace, have you made enemies of
any one? "

No, Lucy, none."

"Not even unwittingly?"

No ; and yet — I forgot, there is one, but
lie is too contemptible to be thought of."

Take care, you may underrate the
position, there are very few who cannot
in some way occasion harm'

"Well, the person I meant is that
hypocritical agent of the Darecourts,
Brien Flynn."

Yes," she answered, " I have heard a
great deal concerning him, one way or the
other, and nothing to his advantage ; but
may I inquire how you permitted yourself
in any sense to be mixed up with this
agent, and make him your enemy ? "

I will tell you all ; and when I have
finished, you must give me the benefit of
your far-seeing counsel upon the whole
case."

Eustace Dillon lucidly narrated his
rencontre with the agent of the Harcourt
property, then looking inquiringly at his
auditor he asked, —

' Was I right or not ? ' '

Unheeding this last request, Lucy said, —

You renewed your acquaintance with
your former friend, Mr. Harcourt, at that
meeting? "

"Yes."

Did the agent know of this ? "

That I cannot say."

But he saw you together, Eustace ? "

So I found out afterwards."

And he knew you were warm friends ? "

"He did."

Have you had any further meeting with
him since ? "

No, and never shall."

"I hope not; had he many opportunities
of meeting your friend ? "

Well, Yincent, I mean Mr. Harcourt,
said they necessarily met often, that he was
commonly civil to his father's employe, no
more, until the day before you saved his
life."

What then ? " she inquired with a dissatisfied
expression.

My friend" told this Flynn of his desire
to have some sea-shooting, but that he
was quite unused to such sport, and could
neither swim nor manage a boat."

Ha ! now let us see," she slowly
said, her face looking very earnest ; " did
Mr. Harcourt meet the agent on the day
of the accident? "

Yes, Flynninducedhimto go, pointing
out the boat provided with everything
ready to start."

But he had been already told his
master's son could not manage it."

Precisely ; when my friend seemed
dubious what to do, the agent declared
the current would bring him to the 
and back again, without the
necessity for rowing, it being then nearly
low water."

"I have heard enough," she answered,
lowering her luminous eyes, " and you
say Lord Harcourt hurriedly sent his son
from home."

He did, and since his departure trie
former persecutions of the people have been
revived, and the determination of the
tenantry to assert their rights, abandoned
during the heir's stay, has been renewed
with increasing acerbity."

A pause ensued. Lucy, looking up, ina
cool, measured voice said, —

Eustace Dillon, I am convinced of
three things. "

Name them, Lucy."

The first is, that the agent is plotting
against you and your friend Mr. Dare-court."


He is too insignificant."

And secondly, the individual who represented
himself as assistant to Dr. Dease,
keeping you away from me, is no such
person, but a confederate of this agent."

Good gracious ! "

And lastly," rising solemnly, " that
these associates tried to accomplish the
drowning of Mr. Harcourt."

My God ! " exclaimed Eustace Dillon,
springing backwards from her agitated face
and fell words. After a short interval, he
attempted a trifling smile, saying lightly, —

No, no, these unreal apprehensions
have overreached your usual powers of
calculation."

Look after yourself and your friend,"
was firmly responded, accompanied by a
meaning gesture. " There is a deep game
being played by clever hands, for a large
stake."

"I cannot comprehend it."

It means absolute danger," she continued
confidently, " ay, even death ; '
adding, " You know, Eustace, the warning
black gull betokening evil to my family ? ' '

"Yes."

During my illness it perched upon my
closed window-sill, and to-day I watched
it."

"But, oh, Lucy, all danger is past,"
he said tenderly.

It was not for me, Eustace, I knew full
well, as the eyes kept looking outwards, not
inwards, but I am concerned in some fatal
way, else why was it there ? "

You are too credulous," he added
assuringly.

No, it came again, but alas, not alone.
Two were then outside my window,
saw them as plainly and perceptibly as
I now do you."

Oh, wherefore indulge this brooding,
fanciful misery."

Ah ! " she said wearily, "how foolish to
neglect the traditional warning ever presaging
grief to us ! My thought was of my
aunt, but that bird bringing another, I fear
there are two of those dear to me in danger ;
the next time they appear I shall divine
the melancholy mystery."

"How, Lucy, how?"

"When those dark-feathered messengers
of woe come again, I will open the lattice ;
if the object of their monition be of great

interest to me, they will alight close to
my station ; otherwise keeping apart in
proportion as I shall be influenced by the
result."

Great Heaven ! see, see," assumed
Eustace timidly, pointing to the window of
their sitting-room, where, perched, looking
in towards them, were the two fated black
gulls.

Without the slightest tremor, Lucy
Neville crossed over, opening the casement
while her companion wonderingly sank
deeper into his seat. Flying straight inwards,
these sea-birds circled twice around
the apartment, then poised themselves in
mid air, and, as if by a preconceived action,
immediately afterwards settled on the chair
wherein their observer, astonished and
alarmed, sat, one being on each side.

It was a brief stay, however ; by a like
common impulse, they both arose, flying
outwards in the same decided mood.

Beware, Eustace Dillon," said his

hostess, in a sepulchral, deep-drawn voice,
There are two destined to a violent
end. Guard well yourself, and well your
friend."

Chapter Xii.

I have been unusually anxious to see
you this morning."

Oh invade, me lord. Sure av I'd
known I'd av bin here long ago," said
Brien Flynn, the agent, standing before
his noble master.

Sit down," observed Lord Harcourt,
pointing to a chair, as he stretched his
thin heatless limbs towards the fire.

Thank yer lordship," was meekly
responded, the deputy placing his hat on
the ground, and seating himself, respectfully
waiting his superior's commands.

' I have thought over your suggestion,
and, as you appear to dwell so much upon
the results, I think it will be wise to bring

Mr. Dorrington Harcourt from Bath as
soon as possible."

Well, me lord, I am plazedyer avthe
same opinion as me humble sel','' adding,
ye see the business is very extensive,
an' av yer lordship's nephew "

Say, Mr. Dorrington, please," was
interposed sharply.

u Av course, me lord, why not? Well av
Mister Dorrington id be so kind as to
cum wit me now an' thin among the
people, there id soon be a dimrince in
their behaviour."

That seems feasible," answered the
old man.

Beside, me lord, id isn't altogether
natural as how no wan looks after the
accounts except what I show yer lordship.
I'd be better contint av they wor checked,
an' who so like to perfect yer lordship's
interest as some av yer lordship's own
flesh an' blood?"

It is very candid of you o suggest it

VOL. I. 12

in this light, Flynn; but were I not aware
of your honesty and painstaking services,
I should not follow your practical advice
so implicitly as I have hitherto done."

Thank yer lordship for that same, 'tis
more nor I merit, but I do me best, anyhow,"
— a covert smile swept across his
glossy clean-shaven face.

You are aware I have never yet seen
Mr. Dorrington."

I'm beholden' t'yer lordship for that
same information," was responded.

I may say there were private reasons
for this course, and but for the expeditious
and accurate reports you gave me concerning
him, I should have allowed matters to
remain unchanged. Now, however, I will
give you a letter to bring Mr. Dorrington
over. By the way," added Lord Harcourt,
"how is that person progressing whom my
son rescued from drowning?"

"Party well, me lord, from what I
hear."

You describe her as being very commonplace."


She is, me lord, an' I regret the misfortune
av Mister Yincent be in' av use to
her, sure she ken here lookin' after
him."

What impudence," exclaimed the
attenuated form wrathfully. " Your advice
to send my son away was evidently
discreet and timely."

I always strive for the bist, me lord,
an' Mister Yincent would me he wor glad
to get back to England."

It is strange he has not yet written
to me, Flynn."

Well, me lord, there must be allowances
med for young heads absent from
home."

"You are ever creating excuses for what
I regard as neglect," said Lord Dare court,
looking into the fire, while the employe
concealed a leer on his parted lips by
covering them with his fingers.

Mush, me lord, wouldn't I be contint
av the world wor peaceable an' happy."

Very laudable indeed, Flynn," observed
his listener, — but with marked
emphasis, — " I fancy there is less contentment
among the people since Mr.
Vincent went away. How do you account
for this change ? "

Ah, yer lordship 'ill be so kind as not
to ax me."

I hope there exists no reason why I
should not know."

Well, av yer lordship places, bud I'd
rather not."

I insist, sir. What do you mean ? '

Thin sure, me lord, 'tis like this.
Whin Mister Vincent wor here they
chanted him, an' I cudn't interfere 
av amndin' his honour, an' "

What else ? " petulantly.

An' for the raison, I now make thin
do what is only just to yer lordship, they
are troublesome, which don't signify

so long as I keep thin to the right
mark."

I think less of my son, day by day,"
bitterly, came from the aged parent.

Oh," mournfully echoed the agent.

Do not interrupt me," proceeded the
former. "If Mr. Dorrington realizes what
I expect of him from your report, I shall
depute the management of my entire
affairs to him and you, my son remaining
indefinitely in England until he has fallen
into my views in all things."

As Brien Flynn lowly and respectfully
retired from the presence of his noble
employer, walking towards Wentworth
Waste to meet Mr. Dorrington Harcourt,
he took a comprehensive resume of his
present and future prospects. "Vincent is
gon," he thought, " an' his cousin takes
his place. Very good ; what next ? The
deeds must be got at, an' the will med
complete; thin whin all's ruddy, the ould
lord's got rid av, an' Dorrington's proved

to be owner, Vincent becoming' what Dorrington
ought to be, ha, ha ! That's fine.
What av poor Miss Chalmers ? Why, av
course, Dorrington marries her ; good
enos for him too, after helping' him to
the little property. Yis, that 'ill do," he
mused, " bud' Mister Dorrington, I'll bean
the sure side, ye nivir seen the deeds
yit, an' afore ye do I'll hav' a nate copy
med to put in plaice avthe raylparchmints ;
thin av ye don't giv' me a fair share av the
whack, I'll turn thin over t'yer cousin, the
three lord, ha, ha, ha ! What a lucky
card," he silently continued, " that terrible
Michael 0' Grady plays into our hands,
thinking as how Dorrington is Vincent the
great friend av Eustace Dillon. Ah," this
last hated name fired him up as he went
on, "I'd rather not hav' a hand in bringing'
the rebel to the often baffled scaffold, he
never don me harm; bud as id stands, av
I can only git at Dillon an' lave him to
the rnarcy given' to traitors be coupling'

him wit 0' Grady, this I'll do as martin
as I might risk the chance av eternity
to make money."

Beaching Wentworth Waste he walked
upwards, where, awaiting him in the ruins
stood Dorrington Harcourt.

The unusually pleased smile upon Brien
Flynn'sface reflected the successful import
of his journey.

All right, Mister Dorrington," he
jubilant said, " that's settled, yer uncle
'11 write ye a litter this very day, which
av course," accompanied by a wink, "goes
to ye in England, but in reality, 'twill
find ye here, an' in good time ye'll make
yer due appearance at the Castle."

' I must congratulate you, Flynn, ' ' replied
the young man. ' ' It was evident you would
succeed in your skilful attacks on Lord
Harcourt's credulity," — here they laugh, —
and I am glad the end is at hand. You
cannot believe how intolerable it is to be
tied down to a certain restraint or fixed idea

when one's inclinations lead in an opposite
groove, bnt the game we are playing is of
no mean order, and the stake is equally
high. Once firmly located in the Castle,
there's nothing hut an indolent old
man's life left standing between us and
success."

"Whew," replied the deputy through
his open lips, "that's the ayziest part.
What I want is to share Eustace Dillon,
an' no wan can do id but herself."

"No questionable procedure, mind you,"
answered his companion with an admonishing
look.

What," exclaimed Brien Flynn ironically,
"ye talk like that after what we've
don ? "

"Now, mark me," proceeded the younger
man sternly, " our compact refers only to
Harcourt, outside of that I do not at
present see my way. At all events I will
not willingly add to the perils of an unfortunate
man who rightly or wrongly

attempted too much in a cause wherein
he believed. "

Mister Dorrington," said the agent in
deep hollow tones, " I'd sacrifice all I
own or expect to git to hav revenge an
Eustace Dillon."

And I am equally decided that I will
not help you to this laudable consummation
if I can possibly avoid it."

Not help me," was echoed, " whin I
s throve so much for ye, Mister Warrington,"
uttered Brien deprecatingly.

"No idle sentiment, Flynn," was the
civil reply. " The day for misunderstanding
is past between us. You know what
I want, and I am well aware you seek
money ; ' plainest issues are always best,' ' :
he added noticing the effect his unexpected
words had on his downcast companion.


The latter, suddenly uplifting his contemplative
face, inquired, —

Are you aware, sir, Mister Eustace

Dillon knows more av the affairs av
Harcourt nor is good for us."

Ha ! " cried the young man, starting
with a hasty apprehensive look. " Pray
explain yourself."

In the days gon by, whin Teddy
Darecoort wor alive, he wor her warm
favorite, as his lordship would me himsel' ,
there's not a corner in the Castle anbe-
known to him, an' 'tis me mind," bending
close to his attentive listener, " Eustace
Dillon knows we had a hand in the boat
business."

Good heavens ! how can that be ? '

Well, he has sed plainly Mister
Yincent would him as how whin going' down
under the father he saw two min in
Darecoort jeering' at him without ofTeiin'
a helping' hand."

That's not true," answered Dorrington
fiercely ; " there was one laughing, I was
not."

Three for ye, sir, still 'tis because

there wor two they cudn't make the
business out."

But what does all this suspicion avail?
you don't prove anything."

Only this, sir," replied Brien Flynn
firmly ; " as sure as yer standing' there,
Eustace Dillon has me booked for id,
an' though for the present he's baulked,
wondherin' who the second man wor, he'll
just put id down to us two, ay, an' be
behaved ; the people all known' he's
cute an' honest, to be relied an."

Yes, there's something deserving consideration
in what you now say, although
I'm glad it is nothing more serious."

Id is, sir, more serious, too serious
even for you, Mister Dorrington."

Amazement ! what do you mean ? "

This, sir," said the agent warningly,
want he gits the people to belay ve
aether av us tried to trip up yer cousin,
w r e shut go "

Go where, Flynn ? "

Anywhere to escape been' shot an'
chucked in the tide."

This is a serious prospect," exclaimed
the aristocrat ; " and I begin to see your
view is correct after all ; we must keep
a sharp look-out, Flynn, ready to strike
when it is necessary, not sooner.

Ah, Mister Dorrington, I'm glad ye
ken round to yer three self,' ' — the speaker
gleefully rubbed his hands.

What do you wish me to do next,
pray? "

u Whin ye git a chance av meeting the
rebel again, thick to him, promise anything',
make him behave in ye, quietly
drawn' sufficient out av him to ranch
Dillon, an' we'll hav' thin both arrested."

Would not my name appear in connexion
therewith ? "

Not a bit, sir. Tho government id
give <£500 to git hould av the first, not a
soul been' minshined."

"But how does that affect Dillon ?"

"Why," replied the agent, laughing,
"just in this way, Mister Dorrington:
whin ye're got enos av information
out av 0' Grady to little thin both, I'll
giv' the necessary word to nab thin.
No wan 'ill know us, an' we'll pocket
the £500."

Good heavens," shouted the young
man angrily, " do not dare to speak of
the base gain in my presence. I loathe
the mention of such cowardliness ; ' continuing,
"it is enough for my complete
degradation to hold parley on such a
contemptible subject."

Brien Flynn appeared amazed at his
confederate's foolish resolve, but he
thought, "So much thebetther; after
all, I'll hav' more for mesel\"

To-morrow," observed Dorrington
Harcourt, recovering his equanimity, " I
will be here at the same hour," and turning
on his heel they parted, not a semblance
of mere average warmness being

interchanged either in glance or form
between them.

The agent moved speedily away, while
his dissatisfied accomplice looking at his
watch resolved, " I shall remain here, although
she cannot arrive for another hour;
however, I will smoke and think upon that
thoroughbred hardhearted villain whom
fortune has thrown in my path to advance
my purpose, much as I despise and detest
him."

Mr. Yincent Harcourt keeps questionable
company," was exclaimed from the
opposite side of the broad wall, over which,
with a sharp clean bound, a figure vaulted,
revealing the stern, bronzed features of the
intrepid 0' Grady.

CHAPTER XV.

The City of Dublin was cast into a state
of high excitement when it suddenly
became known that the renowned Michael
O'O'Grady, Esq., Bea., etc., etc., etc., had
espoused the national platform, becoming
at once its most advanced leader and
doughty champion.

Harrowing the major portion of his
increasing auditors by the recital of the
cause for this adoption, a case in no wise
differing from a number of similar instances
of eviction continually recurring,
which would only end, he emphatically
asserted, "when the control of their dear
country was wrenched from the unhallowed
grasp of the Saxon."

The patriot's example was quickly
followed by others of equal social status
with himself, but by none so personally
gifted or accomplished.

His accession to the popular side unquestionably
stimulated " the good cause,"
precipitating the issue — a fiery, harrowing
rebellion. It is somewhat remarkable that
the leaders in this movement were not of
the national religion nor of the class
sprung from the people, being principally
gentlemen, among whom the legal element
was largely represented.

Throwing himself heart and soul into
the enticing pursuit, the ardent young
lawyer speedily became one of the most
marked men in the land — loved or hated
respectively by those who either admired
or loathed him, with all that fervency
of impulse at once the characteristic
and the bane of thereat.

It was generally understood that on the
first plausible pretext he would be arrested

by the government, who were anxious to
make a speedy example of one so eminently
dangerous.

His natural tact, however, made him a
formidable antagonist in the sphere of
diplomacy, and overtly there could be no
actual charge of treason as yet maintained
against him. While playing the victor in
these bloodless issues, he made his position
more and more impregnable in the public
view.

Deeply pained by his son's secession
from the parental opinions and teaching,
his father haughtily commanded him to
retrace his steps, or he would disown
him. That fatal behest to his only child
indelibly severed them — henceforth they
were apart. Ay, and be it noted not
only in sentiment but in reality, even
his mortier turned somewhat angrily
from him.

In Ireland there could be no parallel
lines ; it must be for, or against ;

vol. i. 13

Michael and his parents becoming implacably
severed.

He felt the change but little, owing to
the exciting nature of his every-day life,
sometimes a yearning desire to see his
mother took possession of him, never, however,
was it carried into practice, and as
his name came more and more before the
public, in connexion with the Nationalists,
so did his father's undying dislike of him
and them increase, until at length the son
was disinherited.

Placed suddenly without means, instead
of seeking a reconciliation with his parents,
as the latter fully expected, the young enthusiast
calmly reasoned, " I have saved a
little money, and can hold out for sometime
; before it is gone Ireland shall be free,
or cursed with the taint of a deeper slavery;
in the former event I can survive this unjust
act of a bigoted, mistaken father. If the
latter, why the paternal Saxon government
will be only too anxious to exalt me beyond

the reach of necessity," and he laughed
sarcastically, simulating the action of
placing a rope around his neck.

The insurgents had already taken the
field in several places, but the clergy of the
popular Church laboured so assiduously
and successfully to prevent the insurrection,
that not one out of every fifty
calculated upon by their leaders stood to
their oaths and guns when needed. Very
soon those small bands were either dispersed
by the soldiers, or forced into
becoming nomads in the interior of the
country.

It was not so, however, with the league
organized and led by 0' Grady. Under
this intrepid officer, deeply revered by his
resolute followers, there had already
been fought and won some actually
large engagements, wherein the military
were severely beaten, which naturally
increased his confidence and that of
those serving under him, besides bringing

to his ranks contingents from even remote
quarters.

The chief had now several hundred sober,
fairly-drilled, determined men, waiting his
orders on the outskirts of the Wicklow
Mountains, when he received information
that on a certain day a picked number
of the elite of the regulars would be despatched
against him, well found in guns,
and every requisite necessary to decimate
those stubborn insurgents, the order being
to give no quarter.

This is good news," said he to his partisans,
with an heroic look, " at one stroke
we shall terminate this undertaking; " continuing,
" it is only a fair day's march to
Dublin by the Enniskerry road. My plan
is to anticipate these red-coats by tramping
through the night in small numbers,
rendezvous at Stillorgan, and either surprise
them, falling upon them with all
our strength, sudden and collective, or
by allowing their fruitless journey to

Powerscourt we can move straight on to
Dublin in their absence, and establish
ourselves even in the Castle itself:
remember, " he confidently continued,
courage does wonders."

The former course, however, was adopted,
presenting as it did every facility for taking
the soldiers in ambush, and capturing the
guns and war materiel, of which the league
had none.

Sitting in the rude low-roofed farmhouse,
serving the purpose of a tent and
head-quarters, vacantly looking into the
brown turf fire, 0' Grady thought of the
approaching conflict, and glowingly anticipated
a victorious issue.

The theme was in consonance with his
soul-felt longing for the independence of
Ireland, and under its absorbing pleasurable
influence and that of the well-stacked
fire he soon fell into an easy sleep,
dreaming and re-dreaming.

By the time he woke up, the day had

sunk upon those wooded hills, and night
entombed the valley, stretching far away
below his feet, wherefrom a haze came
creeping slowly upwards, and a calm, soft
stillness pervaded everything.

Trying to shake off the reminiscences of
the late unpleasant reverie, he paced up
and down the small room with his hands
clasped behind his back, after an interval
suddenly exclaiming, " Hesitation is of
no use, I shall go to my mother, even
now this dream has left an impression
upon me that the end of one of us is
at hand."

Returning the salute, he quickly left the
sentry in the distance. Galloping towards
Dublin, his well-fashioned, useful animal
soon making tracks on the road, mile after
mile being covered until he was pulled up,
panting and steaming, at a well-known
house of call in Harold's Cross. After a
few careful words with the landlord,
0' Grady swallowed a tumblerful of hot

brandy, and walked into Dublin, that tall
determined looking man passing onwards
with a certainty of being unmolested
which would have been hazardous in the
equestrian.

Avoiding the central streets he passed
close under the Phoenix Park, and keeping
northwards, reached Gainsborough, whence
turning to the right, he rapidly neared
Clontarf; — the few persons about were
principally of the official element, and
moving onwards with a decisive " Goodnight,"
he was unquestioned.

In this way the chief arrived at the
turning leading to Artane, when a faint
wailing cry rose on his attentive ear, and
presently despite the overwhelming darkness,
far out in the mid-stream of that full
tide, he discovered the outlines of a boat,
with muffled oars, plied steadily by four
figures, gliding surely but slowly along.
Again that faint cry tinged the sullied night
air, making his heart beat tumultuously

as ceasing to row he observed one of those
dark figures rise up in the boat and display
certain actions, as though gagging someone
lying in its bottom.

Forgetful of everything else but the conviction
that there was a foul deed contemplated,
if not already perpetrated, in that
craft, 0' Grady ran on close to the edge of
the tide, watching the progress of those
silent steady rowers. He anxiously looked
for any stray skiff whereby he could at
once give chase, but there was nothing
except the soft pliant sand, concealing
his every footfall, and the mark of the
receding limpid wave.

It now became evident, as the boat
headedforDollymount, that the "Bullwall"
was the place to intercept her. Flushed
with the unknown adventure and his exertions,
he soon reached the entrance thereto,
creeping along the old bridge, where, in
the proud days of yore (he thought), " we
beat our invaders, and forced the Danes

into the tide." That shadowy vessel did
not, however, face towards the bridge, but
made straight for the wall itself, somewhat
nearing its other end, drawing up beside
the rocks, behind which he stooped
eagerly listening.

Out wit him," said one ; " we'll soon
put an ind to the garrison."

The prostrate figure essayed to speak,
but the gag fully accomplished its choking
mission.

"I'm not for shooting' him, boys," was
an opinion, rather timidly suggested.

Bah ! we are," sharply retorted in
accord.

Git him up ; make him walk: 'tis the
last he can do for our trouble."

There'll he be shot ? " inquired the
man who was not for shooting him.

There's a post an the flat above.
We'll tie him, an' every gun blazes at
the word ' Three.' "

"Don! "

Don ! " was echoed.

Don ! " came later from one voice,
however.

Make yer pistols ruddy, boys ; thin
we'll hoist him up."

Eight ye are," was answered. " Whin
we fire, hack the boat av the rocks, an'
row might an' main round the Poole
to Tantamount ; 'twill throw the civil
himsel' av the saint."

1 ' Three for ye, " observed the former counsellor,
adding, " now, thin, up wit him."

Making a dull sound in his throat, the
prostrate figure was uplifted and impelled
forward by his captors towards the fatal
object looming in the distance.

With piteous distortions of body, vainly
clinging to every obstacle presenting itself,
their victim was ruthlessly dragged along
and bound firmly to the time-worn post,
against which the wretched human outcast
helplessly reclined. The preliminaries being
complete, a voice was heard, enjoining —

Now, face fair, an' at ' Wan, two,
three!' all fire."

Yis, yis," answered two of the confederates,
but the third and last interposed,
—

Let the poor wretch say his prayers,
anyhow. Out wit the gag even for has
a minnie."

Curse him ! not a minnie ! " was angrily
shouted. " He'll die like a dog.
Eddy ! Wan, two "

Down, paltry cowards ! " surged upon
their ears as a form of immense power
already glared upon them with a pistol in
each hand, continuing, " Back, I say, ye
yelping curs, who would refuse a fellow-being
the right to supplicate his God."

They quickly slunk out of sight, while
0' Grady withdrew the gag and liberated
the unknown, who, recovering speech,
threw himself on his knees, saying, —

Oh, sir ! what can I do for you who
have saved my life ? "

Nothing ; I only performed my duty,
but who are you ? "

Eobert Arkwright. And may I inquire
the name of my deliverer ? '

"Yes," was calmly replied, "Michael
O'O'Grady, the rebel."

Chapter XVI.

It is useless to try to dissuade me,"
answered Miss Neville, in the reception-room
of Nevillestown, with a ringing tone
of nerved purpose. " I own to it reluctantly,
indeed, regretfully, but we cannot
be friends longer — at all events, in the
active sense of the term."

Do not be irate, Lucy dear. I am
weary of the reflection of having been
so unkind, especially in your protracted
illness ; but be generous, content that I
have awakened to my truer self, late
though it is, and that I am here to plead
for forgiveness."

Forgive — yes, that I have already done,
but" — the speaker grew warm — "that I

could hold you in sincere friendship again
is utterly impossible. It is very hard " —
lowering her voice — " to say those two
most melancholy words ' No more,' and I

wish " she faltered, burying her face

in her handkerchief.

Her shrewd observer, interpreting this
agitation as a favourable omen, quickly
moved ta Miss Neville's side, but the
transient girlish sentiment had already
perished, and its frail, ephemeral chord of
emotion was rent, sacrificed to a sense of
duty, as the calm, composed face of the
young mistress of Nevillestown encountered
that of her vacillating visitor.

"Fanny Chalmers," urged Lucy, intones
almost hard with resolution, " something
tells me we were never fitted for each
other, and this incompatibility to be true
friends shall, I fear, be made apparent even
in the proximate future, — why, I do not
know ; nor do I wish to say more, having
already departed from my intention in

going thus far. Leave me," she added,
rising, " lest I fail in my duty. May our
future careers be so far apart as that we
cannot meet again. I bear you no thought
but regret, and now bid you farewell, a
long, a last farewell."

"Farewell," was mockingly echoed, a
wild passionate fury gleaming in the
speaker's eyes, " but not for long. I will
soon bring you to my feet, Miss Neville.
My purpose is already formed to annihilate
your contemplated happiness when
nearest its achievement. Mark well'"
she added, in biting, rancorous accents,
keenly impinging on the object for
whom they were intended, " in the hour
of your greatest joy you will meet your
deepest sorrow. Remember these my
parting words."

The speaker violently slammed the door,
shutting out her own distorted, inflamed
face, while the recollection of her cruel
threats deepened upon her auditor.

At length Lucy resolved on shaking off
this apathy by indulging in a canter along
the coast, when, to her evident satisfaction,
Eustace Dillon was announced. With the
old weird melancholy he advanced, and,
taking her outstretched hands, looked interestedly
and musingly, as though in
abstract meditation.

At first the subject of that continued
searching gaze of solicitude became somewhat
embarrassed ; however, this feeling
of surprise was soon succeeded by an air
of calm, gentle anxiety, as she inquired, —

Eustace, why do you seem so mysterious
? "

Mysterious ? " suddenly letting fall her
hands ; " I do not know what way I seem,
I only know I am your slave."

He spoke slowly, with eyes fixed upon
the carpet.

"Oh! please do not wrong yourself,"
was answered passionately.

"Alas!" he resumed, "there is no

wrong Lucy ; already I feel I am
well, well, I will say it — a mere
fool!"

Lucy Neville placed her frail tapered
fingers upon his shoulder, and, in a voice
swelling with soft gentleness, said, —

"It pains me so much, dear Eustace,
to tell you, but I have no alternative;
you know every particle of real devoted
sisterly affection in my being is already
yours."

"I do," still preserving his calm,
quiescent, pensive attitude.

Then spare me." Her eyes grew T dim.
Leave me this devoted sisterly claim.
I cannot be more to you."

"This I also was aware of," he replied.

Then," she surprisingly inquired,
"wherefore agitate me by referring to
what is impossible?"

Lucy, listen to me." Again he took
her hand in his, standing erect, with those
full, black, passionate eyes, miser-like,
vol. i. 14

fixedly regarding her. " This day I resolved
to anticipate my destiny, and seek
the refuge of some other land, where,
forgotten, I will close my clouded days and
ill-starred nights in unavailing recollections
of what I have been, since fate would seem
to have decreed it so." In visible emotion
she bowed her head, unmindful of which
he proceeded. " Who but the Great Dispenser
of all things can ever know what
existence has been to me, separated from
those congenial in habit and in years, with
my reserved inner self, the thought of my
orphaned brother alone reconciling me to
life ? Ah ! then it was, Lucy, I first knew
what you had become to me in this blank
world. Ah," he added, restraining her
imploring gesture, " how on my bosom's
deepest page your name was indelibly
written. You need not repeat," he continued
in a bitter tone, " nor tell me what I
have long known, that the forlorn Eustace
might be your brother ; but no more. The

heart truly speaks its own burden and
reflects its own answer."

You are terribly perverse in overestimating
others," said Lucy bluntly.
Tell me, has anything recently happened
to you of undue moment ? "

There has."

May I inquire what it is ? "

"My sole trusted companion, Harcourt,
has just wilfully terminated a sincere
friendship of deep and long continuance."

Impossible ! " was ejaculated.

Alas ! I have the irrefutable evidence
in his own handwriting," he answered,
placing a letter on the table, of which she
took no notice, but continued, —

"You must have erred grievously in the
character you gave me of this gentleman —
Lord Harcourt' s son."

"Ah, no! " was his dejected reply, "it is
my unlucky fate. Why should even one
be left on whom I could place an honest
reliance ? "

May I venture upon another query ? '
she said, with a glance full of meaning.


Oh, with pleasure."

Eustace, have you seen Mr. O'O'Grady
lately ? "

I have not."

How mysterious!" was spoken aloud.

Why mysterious ? "

"I cannot inform you at present," she
went on significantly ; " very soon I will
tell you all. Meanwhile the advice I gave
before will bear repetition : guard yourself
and your friend ; for, notwithstanding this
annoying epistle from Mr. Harcourt, I
still believe you wrong him."

As she finished the last word, Lucy
lifted a letter from off the sofa, handing
to her companion.

Thank you," he answered. "I would
it were as you say. But, great Heaven !
what is this? " reading aloud.

Dublin, 9 o'clock.
My darling Fanny, —

"I send this by special messenger.
To-day ; old place, at four.
Your devoted

YlNCENT DaRECOURT."

Speechless, they regard each other in
wondering anxiety, when suddenly Lucy
Neville hurried to the side of Eustace
Dillon, saying, —

I have it now ! Fanny Chalmers called
here before you arrived, and sat there,"
indicating the place where the mysterious
letter had been found.

Then," he soliloquised sadly, " can it
be possible Vincent Harcourt is in Ireland
unknown, and has become the victim of
that designing girl ? Oh ! it is monstrous
to conceive such a misfortune ! "

After reading, and re-reading that anomalous
communication, they sat in
silence apart, engrossed in the reflection,

"What did it all mean, and how could
such an incomprehensible thing have
occurred ? "

The long-sustained pause was broken
by the hostess slowly saying, —

You remember our recent rencontre
with those black gulls, Eustace?"

"Yes."

Then be convinced," she continued
affirmatively, " that in some way Miss
Chalmers is associated with the issue
portended by those fatal birds."

Whatever the issue, I may well renew
my raillery against the turpitude of society
if so good a man as Vincent Dare court
has fallen, ensnared in the meshes of this
unwomanly girl."

Think it seriously over between now
and tomorrow, and I will do likewise,"
said Lucy, rising and going towards him.
"You must be my brother, my fond
brother, Eustace ; although not blessed
with keen prescience, it is plain to me

my future is drifting into a perilous
labyrinth, wherein such a help will be
sadly needed'

May no shadow mar your dearest,
best aspirations ! yet thrice welcome
would be the happy hour wherein I
could end my miserable existence to
serve you."

"Oh!" warmly, "forego this phantasy,
you shall live for the sake of others ; I
will not assail your present convictions
f further to-day at all events ; you must
endeavour to arrive at some conclusion
respecting this momentous letter by the
time we meet tomorrow," and exchanging
the firmest of friendly salutations,
they parted, Eustace going homewards,
while Lucy soon after betook herself
for a meditative saunter on the seashore.


Hitherto, she had only traced a fugitive
outline of the face of the drowning Vincent
Harcourt, whom she had not seen

before or since his rescue, although its
helpless resigned look was surely ineffaceable,
heightened by that dread accompaniment
of death.

Still until that mysterious missive from
Eustace Dillon's associate to the discarded
Fanny Chalmers lay before her, Miss
Neville had never thought interestedly
of Lord Harcourt's son. Now she paced
the strand, wondering by what fatuity he
had prostrated himself at the shrine of
that heartless girl, while she was even
unthanked for having saved his life,
thereby almost forfeiting her own. Eustace
had told her of his friend being
prevented seeing her by the presumed
assistant of Dr. Dease, and that, failing
in this, he had written his thanks before
leaving Ireland, but she knew nothing of
either circumstance, and cared but little,
she supposed until now, when a feeling
of apprehensive dislike dawned in her
mind against Fanny Chalmers, whose

significant vengeful words were vividly
before her.

Eustace! alas," she contemplated,
what would I not give to rescue him
from his melancholy brooding habits ?
Poor fellow, his is a hard lot to endure,
and this unaccountable failure of Mr. Dare-court's
friendship tells heavily upon him.
I will induce him to come each day and
accompany me in my walks and rides ;
what need we care, all that a sister could
I shall be to him, and when this is understood,
he cannot have a valid reason for
absenting himself from Nevillstown. No
more of those superficial Fanny Chalmers
living to assail and waylay the peace of
others."

Strolling along these sloping white sands,
Lucy pondered deeper than she had hitherto
done upon that eventful day when Rover
spirited over the very place she was now
passing. There it was she heard the first
faint wail of distress, and here at her feet

are those seemingly inaccessible time-worn
rocks, her horse so marvellously scaled.

Thus communing within herself with
eyes riveted on each freshly revealed
mark of interest, she reached the end of
the breakwater, sitting down thoughtful
and meditative on the spot wherefrom,
when her restive animal refused the leap,
she had cast herself fearlessly into the tide.

A desolate weary feeling almost overpowered
her while gazing seaward towards
the fatal place where the drowning stranger
had been seen fast sinking ; deeper and
more real became her pensive, dejected
abstraction, until half aloud she soliloquized,
"What a cruel world is this, to-day
tossed against a chance object, influencing
our whole future, yet tomorrow it is gone
for ever. Ah, my destiny, say, shall we
meet again ? "

"If Miss Neville deems it not too worthless,
will she take back the life she gave ?
Without her it has become insupportable ? "

The slight colour on Lucy's classical face
fled, as, transfixed with astonishment, she
beheld Yincent Harcourt, hat in hand,
standing respectfully before her.

Chapter XVII.

At that advanced hour it was impossible
for 0' Grady to go in quest of his mother,
and the city being under martial law, the
task of getting back through it was necessarily
attended with great risk ; however,
it had to be accomplished at any peril.
The agent clung to his deliverer in the
homeward walk along the "Bull wall,"
even the displacement of a tiny stone
freezing him with renewed alarm and
apprehension.

Avoiding all efforts at conversation,
the chief anxiously meditated how to regain
his horse and return to the camp :
one course finally resolving to follow,
when, turning sharply to his companion as

they neared Clontarf, he peremptorily
inquired, —

"Arkwright, are you willing to dome
an important service to-night ? ' '

Willing to move heaven and earth for
you so far as I can," was the warm
affirmative.

The questioner rebukingly replied, " Extremes
are to be avoided' continuing,
but you are known here, and I want
you to procure a conveyance to take us
across Dublin."

That I will do," was replied with *
recovering calmness, as the blood continued
its revivifying course through his
benumbed veins.

At this point a night patrol overtook
them, demanding, —

Who are you ? "

"Mr. Robert Arkwright," came from the
owner of that name.

Who is this gentleman ? "

' A friend of Mr. Arkwright, ' ' was almost

sternly volunteered by the stranger indicated
— before the sentence was finished
in the agent's mouth — and bowing they
went onwards.

Now it happened that something in
Arkwright's manner or voice aroused
0' Grady's suspicions ere they had gone
many yards further, when, in a tone pregnant
with meaning and resolve, the latter
observed, —

Did you think I was afraid of those
agents of the Saxon?"

"It was not an envious position, you
must admit," was tartly answered.

I am always prepared for danger,' ' continued
the former speaker : " and though
fifty met us to-night — ay, and if they
knew me, I should still go forth unharmed."


This is marvellous. Are you certain
of what you assert ? "

"I am," answered the chief, " and you
shall know it."

I will be glad to do so," in an affected
tone.

Then," in slow, laboured accents,
this is my plan. You have materially
risen in the world since last we met, revelling
in the expatriation of our countrymen,
while creeping up in the sphere of an
unholy ambition, accomplished by the
robbery of both employer and tenant."

"Am I to bear this, even from you?
No, I will not ! " was passionately
echoed.

You shall and will ! Mark me, Eobert
Arkwright," continued his deliverer, " I
will place my life in no man's keeping, least
of all in that of yours, a servile tool of
the Government in their policy of spoliation
and infamy. To-night you shall help
one to escape for whose capture this
same Government would give an unknown
reward — not that paltry £500,"
pointing to an official document affixed to
the post they were now passing.

"I — " interrupted Arkwright in unsteady
accents, "I will get the conveyance
: more I cannot offer."

"Yes, you both can and must," was
sternly replied. "Look at these pistols,
and hearken to my words ! Instantly
procure that vehicle, and accompany
me therein to Harold's Cross ; to the demand
of every patrol, affirming I am your
friend, or, should you fail, and I be recognized,
I will blow you to atoms before I
lose my liberty ; " adding, with a smile of
contempt, " they would sooner connive at
my escape than forfeit your bloodhound
services."

Thus these two went through the city
of Dublin, the agent owing his life to the
celebrated rebel now coolly and watchfully
sitting beside him, the latter being well
aware that gratitude from that trafficker
in humanity, was as little to be depended
upon as that the fleet, unstable imagery of
childhood will withstand the test of realise.

My best wish is that w r e shall never
meet again," said 0' Grady, alighting at
the foot of Harold's Cross bridge.

Before the echo of his words was lost,
he had swiftly disappeared on the other
side, while Arkwright hissing " We shall
meet again " through his ground teeth,
lashed the horse at a furious pace, galloping
back along the road they had traversed,
until in Harcourt Street he met
an escort, to the leader of whom he shouted,

Quick, for your lives ! Take the road
from Harold's Cross bridge, and you will
come up with the rebel 0' Grady, whom but
ten minutes ago I saw pass over it on foot."

On, my men ! " excitedly replied the
officer, returning Arkwright' s salute, and
placing himself at the head of the troops they
went forward at a fierce pace, passing the
Portobello Gardens, and over the bridge.

Dividing into pairs the soldiers scoured
Harold's Cross Common and the adjacent
lanes, unsuccessfully, until despairing and

vol. i. 15

wearied of the search they turned their
horses' heads towards the city, proceeding
in a dispirited, straggling fashion
in the dark. The officer, somewhat near
the footway, had just passed the corner
of a by-road, when a glove struck him
in the face, and a mocking voice greeted
him, saying, " With Michael 0' Grady's
compliments — ha, ha, ha!" The leader
and his men instantly settled into a headlong
gallop, pursuing that indistinct figure
fleeing ahead. A derisive " Ha, ha, ha ! '
again discordantly assailed them, and a
moment later the rebel was gone, every one
of their horses baulking at the wide mill-stream
he had just vanished across. Day
woke up, shaking off the sable of night,
ere 0' Grady appeared in the camp, and,
resigning his horse to an orderly, he
speedily slept, a deep, refreshing sleep,
known only to those whose office in this
life is to toil.

On the next night the momentous march

towards Dublin to intercept the regulars
was to be essayed, and the chiefs of the
movement had already assembled for the
last council, assigning to each his decisive
part in the hazardous undertaking.

O'O'Grady occupied the post of honour,
and the subject of conference was early
settled, terminating with a hearty, " Godsend
us success ! "

Leaving the camp for a look around,
the chief was accosted by a stranger, who,
touching his rough cap, meekly inquired,
"D'ye think, yer honour, be anymaynes I
cud git to deliver a litter to the would
General O'O'Grady?"

You are unconsciously flattering," was
responded with a smile; "but answer,
who is the letter from ? "

An ould man just at the point av death,
yer honour."

"Where?"

Marcer's Hospital, sir.*

"What is his name?"

"Bob Doyle."

Then give it to me."

Sure ye don't mayne to say as how
yer honour is that great splendid general
Mister O'O'Grady. Oh dear, oh dear,"
rubbing his hands gleefully.

"Enough of this," was answered from
beneath a grave, displeased brow, the rebel
reading as follows : —

Marcer's Hospital.
"Honoured Sir, — Pardon this intrusion.
I'm latin' this world, God help me, to join
me poor wife, who ye know died here
after we wor lift without the shelter av
the ould home in Dangan. Afore I die I
want to see ye to tell ye a sanscrit that 'ill
preserve yer honour in the hour avthrouble.
Don't neglect a poor sinner's grateful
request an' warning', com to yer three
servant,

"Bob Doyle."

This is a remarkable request ; the

circumstances, too, are very fresh in my
memory; but what can he want with
me?" and the reader relapsed into a fit
of musing, holding the open letter in
his hand.

Has yer honour any answer?" respectfully
inquired the messenger.

None, there is some money, go your
way back. Yet I really do not know what
to do."

The ould man is very bad, sir," was
pathetically pleaded.

Say no more, I will see to it," exclaimed
0' Grady, and, turning on his heel,
he went thoughtfully by the watchful
sentry.

"It is remarkable that I should be
written to by this old man," he pondered,
"the knowledge of whom has made me
what I am. Yet something moves me to
go ; the novelty of the mission, too, is its
best guard against danger. Maybe it will
promote the dying man's happiness. It

shall be," he continued, "but to baffle even
the possibility of deceit, I will set forth at
once, thus anticipating the messenger."

It was during that dubious interval
marking the last hour of day and the
first of night, that a steaming horse drew
up in front of Marcer's Hospital, and, carelessly
throwing the reins to the porter,
its rider ascended the high flight of
steps leading into the not over capacious
hall.

"You have a patient here named Bob
Doyle," was inquired by the warm equestrian.


"Yes, sir."

"Could I see him."

"Yes, sir. Tim," continued the doorkeeper,
"take this gentleman to No. 49 Band,
following the ready Tim, the gentleman
soon found himself in a large ward
fitted up with beds on both sides, all
occupied by those clean white-capped
patients

"This gentleman is for 49 B."

"This way, sir, plays," responded the
dumpy nurse. " Aizey, I think he's
asleep."

The equestrian stooped over the form,
drawing the close curtains gently hack,
when he was immediately seized and held
from behind by a dozen hands, despite
his almost superhuman struggles. Eobert
Arkwright, the agent, leisurely rose from
the bed where he had successfully simulated
the sick man, and, looking with a sar :
tonic grin at the bound, prostrate giant,
said, —

"Ha, ha! Mister rebel O'O'Grady, we
have met sooner than you contemplated."


Now standing upright the captive repressed
every trace of emotion, exclaiming
in a voice overwhelming in its concentrated
intensity of warning, —

"Eobert Arkwright, last night I saved
you, when but one short word stood between

you and eternity ; to-day this act
is requited by dragging the great name
of the Omnipotent into your deceptive
plot, to make me your dupe; but,
beware, my end is not yet come. We
shall meet once more, when, if but to
avenge this outrage against gratitude,
you shall fall crushed by my withering
hand."

Great Heaven, what is that? see! see!' ,
exclaimed several voices at once, and, turning,
all looked horrified. There high up
over the spot just vacated by Arkwright
rose a magnificent constellation of light
completely eclipsing all else in that large
ward, its beams expanding until it became
painful longer to look upon it, but riveting
the fascinated eyes of these unwilling
observers who were held spell-bound
whereby.

Gradually the illumination parted in the
middle, evolving a colour resembling a
beautiful delicate sea green, while the Bay

of Dublin lay miniature in that unnatural
yet too perfect semblance.

The plains of Malahide next rose upholding
their recognized place in the marvellous
delineation, but the acme of power
and effect was clearly reserved for that
which was now presented. There stood a
four-roomed, strong-built, slated house,
a pony harnessed to a smart, well-built gig,
a fine heavy milch cow, several industrious
pigs, and a whole tribe of poultry.

The door of the house slowly opened,
revealing, located before a fire in a well-furnished
apartment, a family consisting of
three persons, evidently in good circumstances,
and happy, consisting of father,
mother, and daughter. Like a lightning
flash, this domestic scene was replaced by
the same home in ruins, having a child's
grave near thereto, the mother's further
away and the father's more distant still,
while with a final refulgent effort, letters
of fire rose high' above all, notifying the

"Dangan" eviction. That mysterious,
wonderful light now vanished, and the
long corridor looked its normal self, but
on the floor lay Arkwright insensible,
when, turning to leave with his captors,
0' Grady quietly observed, —

Where did Mrs. Doyle die?"

In that bed," pointing to the one
wherein the agent had lain.

Is her husband alive ?"

"No, sir."

"When did he die?"

Some months ago."

"Where? "

"In that bed also!"

Chapter XVIII.

i( Why wait until your father's death ? "
inquired Fanny Chalmers, pleadingly looking
into those averted eyes of Dorrington
Dare court.

My dear," he answered, " that event
cannot long be delayed."

Then this is doubly a reason why our
marriage should not be postponed," she
urged.

"But would it not be wise to guard
against the possibility of his objecting ? "
was counselled.

What care I for any but you, my Lord
Harcourt," accompanying the last words
with a deep courtesy ; the speaker laughingly
continued, " I must rehearse the
role of ' your ladyship ' at my leisure."

There will be no need, Fanny; you
have but to comport yourself naturally.
Many nobly born are often not half so
good as some of their less fortunate fellow-creatures,
and the former ought to make
way for those whom nature, not accident,
decreed for the position."

But, Vincent dear, you would not
retire from your birthright in favour of any
cousin or other relative who might present
himself in the future. Oh, the mere idea
makes me tremble," and she manifested
symptoms of syncope.

Fear nothing on that score, Fanny;
but really until within a very recent
period I hardly thought of my future
position."

His companion opened wide her eyes,
laughing merrily.

The idea," she went on, " of not
thinking of the day when people will say
my lady ' — I — I " — confusedly " meant
my lord,' with carriages, servants, horses,

a box at-the theatre, and all the other etceteras
I have read of ; why I could never
rest until I were in the enjoyment of the
splendid position in all its plenitude ; "
then she languishingly pleaded, "dear,
dear Yincent, say, love, we will be married
without delay, that people can call me 'your
ladyship,' now, although it may not be
strictly accurate ; then when your father
dies I will be no novice in the character
of Lady Harcourt."

"Dismiss any concern on that point,
Fanny. I will play the Mentor when the
occasion arises ; but, dearest girl, do not
force me to break the news to my governor
yet, and I equally hope your parent is not
aware of our engagement."

You know of the promise not to speak
to any one about our betrothal, " he
interrupted.

"But," she said peevishly, "although I
have not broken my word, nor shall I,

what do I want of your father or mine ?
All that I seek is to be your wife, dearest
Vincent, not to linger longer in uncertainty,"
and she gazed archly into his
face.

What a wild, wilful girl," he exclaimed,
with a tone of real admiration, " but one
cannot expect to have their own way in
everything. You must endure our engagement
a little longer, until I either secure
Lord Harcourt's consent to the marriage,
or he dies and I succeed him in the title
and property."

But he has no power or control over
either, — has he, Vincent ? Do ease my
alarm."

Her companion merely replied, —

"Fanny, you must be aware of the
value of his good wishes."

The cogency of this remark was unanswerable,
and she relapsed into silence.
It was manifest that Miss Chalmers had
greedily swallowed the bait skilfully cast

by Brien Flynn, fully believing his companion
Dorrington to be Vincent, heir of
Harcourt, and that her whole energetic
mind was directed to the accomplishment
of the one darling object, how to become
Your ladyship ;" while he, to do him justice,
wished to postpone their nuptials in order
to shield her from any unforeseen disappointment
in his perilous game. Dorrington
was attached to Fanny ; but love
in its purity, which misfortune only makes
the more closely dear, was a stranger to
both, although he was the weaker of the
two, and she revelled in this discovery.

The latter caused her to assume a pronounced
manner towards him, which had
the reverse effect to that intended, and
but that Flynn constantly paraded her
power to aid their common cause, Warrington
would have grown cold or mayhap
wholly indifferent; as it was, he resolved
not to marry until the game of speculation
for depriving his cousin Vincent of the title

and estates was brought to a successful
issue, then he might wed.

The falling of night spoke the hour for
separation, and Dorrington escorted Fanny
towards her father's home, being careful
to part from her where none could see
or know of their acquaintanceship.

Miss Chalmers reached her boudoir,
feeding anew the flame of her implacable
purpose to become the future Lady Dare-court,
while the other party to this conjugal
scheme walked quietly along towards the
Castle, and into the agent's room, who was
awaiting his arrival

I suppose there wor the usual '
event to cape ye, Mister
Dorrington ? " said Flynn, with a knowing
leer.

Exactly, and I wish it were
settled one way or other ; Miss Chalmers
seems resolved on doing what she
pleases."

Well, sir, behave me, av ye don't

hould her an somehow, we'll loose a
trump card intirely."

You weary me with this repeated
laudation of her."

"Do as ye place, sir, av course. Still,
the nearer we git home to our mark, the
more I feel martin av her value."

"Perhaps you are right, but I have
news for you, Flynn."

"Thank ye, sir," said the agent, bowing.

Yes, Miss Chalmers told me she had
been to this Miss Neville, and that the
latter is very anxious to do what is asked
of her."

Good," smiled Flynn; "that's a great
stroke in our favour, for I thought whin
Miss Chalmers kep' away turin' her illness
she'd never reserve her again."

She did though, and most cordially,"
observed the young man.

"Bravo!" exclaimed the agent, chuckling,
and adding, "What did Miss Neville
say about Mister Vincent's appearance ? "

vol. i. 16

That she could not recollect his face
in the least, being so agitated on the day
she saved him."

Bead, that's wonderful luck, anyhow,
an' yer ground is clear ; Miss Chalmers
doesn't know Mister Yincent, nor does
Miss Neville aether, so yehav' it all yer own
way, ha, ha ! " andFlynn laughed heartily.

"Come," interrupted his visitor, "let
us proceed to sterner matters. Have you
got the deeds yet? "

Troth, av course I did, Mister Dorrington,
an' there they are," untying a
parcel of discoloured, faded parchments,
bearing heavy, old-fashioned seals and
ribbons attached. He pushed them across
the table towards his confederate, the
latter saying, —

We will compare these with the originals."


Which I can't help ye much in,"
observed the deputy, with a weary look.
"Avlcud only git through thin matters

av reading' an' writing' as aizey as ye,
Mister Dorrington, I'd be tittering to
what I am to-day."

Unheeding this encomium, Dorrington
Harcourt w r as now intently immersed
in the extensive legal scrolls set out before
him, diligently tracing line after line
throughout, until satisfied that the original
and its masterly simulation were identical.
"Whereupon, rising, he paced the floor
thoughtfully, while inquiring, " How did
you secure these remarkably clever counterfeits
? "

Well, ye see, Mister Dorrington, me
nephew — (son av me dead sister) — as liv's
in Kevin Street, been' brought up to the
law an' a fine scholar, I would him what
I wanted, an' what I'd giv' to hav' id don',
an' now this is the result. Av course, sir, I
only gev him a bit to work an ache time,
so he never had the whole av the papers
at want. Whin ye are satisfied they'll
do, I'll pay his passage to Amerikey,

latin' him to make his own way in the
world."

"Very sensible indeed, Flynn, than which
nothing could be better. By all means
treat him liberally and send him off without
delay."

It shall be as ye say tomorrow, sir, at
thelaytist, av the packet goes ; though they
don't often sail from the Pidgeon house —
howsomever, I'll they "

Now to classify and put these away,"
said Dorrington, arranging the documents
on the table.

"Here is the marriage settlement made
on the late Lady Harcourt, dated and
witnessed.

This is the last will and testament of
Lord Harcourt, disinheriting his son Vincent
in favour of his nephew Dorrington,
who succeeds him in the title and all in the
present or future appertaining thereto, relying
upon the Government to support and
maintain the aforesaid nephew against the

machinations of the previously mentioned
Vincent, the latter having forfeited all claim
to the protection of his country, etc., etc.

Bravo!" exclaimed the young man,
exultingly, " this game is now reduced to a
dead certainty, and the sooner my respected
uncle vacates his place in this world the
better pleased will be his very respectful
nephew and heir, Dorrington Harcourt,
gentleman, and Brien Flynn, his agent."

u Yis, sir, that's just id; bud let us be
after putting' everything' in its proper
corner; now is a good time while yer
uncle takes his usual sheep."

Very practical advice," was answered.
Lead the way, and I will help you to
stow these parchments' in their customary
receptacles until required for the finale in
our great enterprise."

Gliding into the adjoining room, they
noiselessly went forward, reaching a door
in the wall, which opened as the deputy
pushed back the spring, revealing a multitude

of antiquated miscellanea, bracketed
and numbered with scrupulous care. Unhesitatingly
Flynn placed the short ladder
he carried against the wall and mounted it.

There, sir," said he, under his breath,
pointing, " is where I tuck the rays docking
from ; hand up the copies, an' I'll
put thin in their stead."

"No," replied his companion firmly,
"it is better that I should place them
where they can most readily be found
when wanted. Step down, Flynn ; I will
take your station."

Distraught with rage, the agent, shielding
his livid face from his confederate's
view, descended the ladder, and commenced
handing up the spurious skins, Dorrington
marking each one privately ere depositing
them. However, with surprising celerity,
Flynnhad produced a second set of counterfeits,
which he rapidly substituted for the
originals left on the table by his partner,
putting the former deftly aside. The

housing of the parchment being complete,
the occupant of the ladder came down, and
taking possession of what he supposed
were the genuine deeds, went out lazily,
saying,—

Good night, Flynn, close up these recesses
; when next they are opened it will
be to acclaim me lord of Harcourt ;
good-night."

' Yis, ' ' muttered the deputy, looking after
him, " provided ye don't they to git me
under yer thumb; whin ye do, I'll sind
ye down deep to the names av perdition
itself. We've got the rays was, hav' ye ?
ha, ha, ha ! — I've got thin, an' I mayne
to thick to thin till the money's mine."

Brien Flynn, turning to leave the apartment,
suddenly beheld the form of Vincent
Harcourt standing in the open doorway
with his full eyes fixed upon him. " Great
Heaven ! " gasped the agent, tottering
helplessly backward.

Chapter XIX.

I do not understand you, that is, I hardly
know what to say, it is so unexpected,
unthought of."

Vincent Harcourt, still uncovered, with
a face calm, though the muscles of his
mouth were somewhat undecided, proceeded,
—

Miss Neville, will you take back the
life you gave?" After a slight pause,
he resumed, " Pardon my impetuosity, I
have merged every consideration in that,
grave inestimable one, whereof you are the
sole arbiter, and here I wait the verdict for
which I have expressly returned to Ireland,
unknown to all but you."

Mr. Harcourt," she answered firmly,

your knowledge of me is not sufficient
to "

Miss Neville," he interrupted hastily,
bowing low, " spare yourself the effort
of telling me that my Utopian dream is
impossible. It must be so, but while life
be allotted to me I will seek in unknown
lands the peace I have for ever lost in
Ireland."

She looked with interest towards the
speaker, for was he not of Eustace Dillon's
temperament ?

From boyhood, " was continued, "I ha ve
known no parental affection, my beloved
mother gone to another world, my father
chilling me by the coldness of death."

I, too, am an orphan, Mr. Harcourt,"
hurriedly escaped her.

Then," he replied, " you can realize
my superficial life among strangers. Yet
even this was comparatively happy until
I came here, where, through you, I live
to regret existence."

I am grieved if unconsciously I have
darkened your path."

"It is but too true; yet even this
brief expression of concern is worth
more than the world else could offer."
Adding with acerbity, " Alas, how hollow
is life!"

Was this the friend who had played
false to Eustace ?" thought Lucy ; saying
aloud, " I fear, Mr. Harcourt, you will
not stoop to understand others, in this
way misinterpreting them as well as
yourself."

Would it were so," he responded in a
low tone ; " but no, no, it is useless longer
to contend with the phantom of happiness,
the dream is past ; when I have seen my
callous father for the last time, I shall
turn my back on all I once prized and
visit Ireland no more."

But pardon me, do you not owe a duty
to your inheritance and to those whom it
concerns ? "

The instant Harcourt descends tome
I shall sell it," he answered vehemently.


Yet," she looked fixedly at him, " I
have heard quite the reverse from my dear
friend Eustace Dillon."

Eustace Dillon ! may I never hear his
name again ! "

Lucy Neville felt she was now mistress
of the position ; saying with easy confidence,
—

Mr. Harcourt, will you think me bold
if I suggest the wisdom of covering your
head, and indulging in a rest on one of
those rude rocks, known to me from infancy,
but which to you "

Can never be forgotten," he observed,
with a warmth of emphasis causing her to
lower her eyes, while he seated himself —
somewhat nearer than the precise spot
indicated.

I was going to suggest that perhaps you
arrive at conclusions rather hastily."

In one remarkable instance I certainly
must have done so."

That is ? "

"Yourself, Miss Neville," spoken with
such naivete, that even the resolute Lucy
had to laugh lightly, observing, —

I will be more guarded the next time
I put a personal question to so far-seeing
a gentleman."

And I," energetically, " shall not ask
you again."

Tempted beyond her usual restraint,
Lucy could not avoid exclaiming, —

The world is large, Mr. Harcourt."

"Eternity transcends this world, yet
you kept me from it."

The ensuing pause was broken by the
gentle maiden inquiring, —

Why have you not written to Eustace
Dillon since you last went away ? "

"I did frequently."

He has not received your letters."

Impossible ; I hold his impertinent

reply, declining to correspond with me, ay,
and on your account, Miss Neville."

Which he did not write," she composedly
rejoined; "but again, may I ask,
no, no, I cannot bring myself to do so.
Prey overlook my folly, Mr. Harcourt."

The latter eagerly said, —

I would much prefer you to proceed if
in any way it will elucidate the mystery
attending Mr. Dillon, once my trusted and
best friend."

These words moved Lucy to emotion.
Stretching forth her hand, which he gently
took, she said, —

Oh ! he has long been dear to me
even as a brother, and I have been greatly
pained to witness his sorrow at your
neglect of him."

My neglect ! I pledge you my sacred
word of honour, I have had no acknowledgment
of my several communications
to him except the offensive epistle just
alluded to, arousing my deep resentment. 3 '

His observer grew confident.

The question I would have put
to you, Mr. Harcourt, is this, Do you
write to any one in this neighbourhood?"


"To none in Ireland," was rapidly replied,
" excepting my father, who by the
way never answers arne."

Not even to Miss " hesitating,

to Fanny Chalmers ? "

"I never heard the name before," he
peremptorily avowed, while the fugitive
colour returned to Lucy's face.

Then rest thoroughly assured there
is a conspiracy on foot inimical to your
interests, and that an estrangement between
both you and poor Eustace Dillon
is sought for by some one or more persons."



I beseech you explain this thoroughly,
Miss Neville ; do your suspicions revert to
any particular source ? "

"None! although Eustace and myself

exchanged ideas upon it, leading, however,
to no definite results To begin with,"
she added, " you and he were prevented
calling at Nevillstown during my illness."


"I but too well remember it," he exclaimed.


By a supposed assistant of my medical
attendant ; then yon. wrote to me, Mr.
Harcourt ? "

"I did, and I never could account for
your silence' was said hastily, yet inquiringly.


For the obvious reason," she continued,
"that I knew nothing of either
occurrence until Eustace told me of both
this very day."

This indeed is absolutely alarming,
particularly so from the fact that to resort
to such machinations implies the existence
of some deep unusual motive, whereas there
is net even one to whom I am an object of
mere passing interest."

Their eyes gravitated towards each other
with a mutual impulse, and after a somewhat
embarrassing interval Lucy resumed
in pleading accents, —

Mr. Harcourt, will you not please to
see Eustace, and jointly concert measures
to discover who are the delinquents, and
what are the motives for a course
fraught, I fear, with evil to one or both
of you?"

"You seem positively apprehensive,
Miss Neville."

Yes, I own to it," was answered
energetically; "else why this daring
fraud?"

Your conjecture must be well founded,"
he observed; "but I cannot bring myself
to attach the same importance to it that
you do, as I discern no motive in it."
« " Mr. Harcourt, I will not seek to influence
you, though it is impossible to
divest myself of the feeling that it intimately
concerns your future."

Alas, Miss Neville, in a foreign land,
severed from all I formerly knew, and the
only being I could ever love — what will the
strivings or plotting of others signify
to me ? Let life ring out its varying
theme of joy or sorrow, I have but one
ambition, one purpose, to hide myself in
solitude."

Lucy looked sadly on the sleepy, lethargic
waves, while the speaker noiselessly
rose from the rough seat, and approaching
closer, watched her pensive
musings.

At length, with a deep sigh she buried
her face in her hands.

"I hope, brave girl," entreated a soft
mellow voice in her ear, "I am not the
cause of your sorrowful reflection ? "

Yes, Mr. Harcourt, you are indeed,"
fixedly regarding him ; "had we never met
you would have excelled in your sunny,
coveted sphere without the ut imply
thought of pursuing an inane future, lost

vol. i. 17

to yourself and to others, while I, in my
secluded rustic home, would have preserved
a contented girlhood not undermined by
the reflection now presenting itself that I
have contributed to your misanthropy."

Miss Neville, do you with your visible
powers of reflection ascribe our tragic
meeting to mere chance, or wonder that
it has possessed my whole thoughts
until in one broad stream of pure, unselfish
love and gratitude they overflow
their normal limits, gently exhausting
themselves at your feet ? "

Mr. Harcourt, you cannot imagine
how your words agitate me, depriving me
of the power to realize our positions as
they are and that which you would make
of them."

By the sweetest memories of childhood,
by the recollections of my mother's
home, since when, alas, a shallow fashionable
world has given me protection :
yea, by all that is in the power of man to

feel, I tell you, Lucy, that the being
whom you succoured from the waves had
better never have had an existence than
that he should be doomed to languish
without you while life shall last.

"Heed me, dear girl," he added, "I
speak not the frenzy of mere sentiment,
nor unreal passion fading with time ; ah,
no, I plead with the calm assurance of
devotion that neither years nor circumstances
dare mitigate or alter."

Oh, Mr. Harcourt ! " she exclaimed,
in distressed accents, doubly harmonious
in their plaintive cadences, " I will not, I
could not doubt your sincerity ; but give
me time to awaken to myself, to think why
you honour me with an avowal as eloquent
in expression as it is undeserved by me."

What ! undeserved, nay, say justly :
even in proportion as my future proves
happy and of benefit to others, so will the
worth of thy daring valour become augmented.
Speak, then, but one syllable to

allay my doubt. Ah ! " he fervently went
on, "what miracles have not been wrought
of that slender word hope ! the sulky monster,
Despair, flying vanquished before its
inspiring influence when all seemed lost !
Breathe but the semblance of its elastic
spirit to me and my joy shall be
replete ! "

Putting up her two hands he clasped
them with tender avidity, assisting her to
rise from that rocky couch, when, with a
resolute face and voice impressive in its
solid bell-like tone, she said, —

Vincent Harcourt, you can never wish

me to think more deeply " hesitating,

"I mean more fondly of you than I doat
this moment."

Transported with joy he would have
pressed her to his bosom ; but, holding
up her finger, she calmly motioned
towards home, and in silence they retraced
their steps. A sparkling deep
fount of bright crystal joy came bubbling

up between them, invading their heart of
hearts, where the imperishable records of
a first love were closely and rapturously
enshrined.

They continued their walk in tranquil
communion, silent from the very conviction
of that requited affection, heedless of
a]l but its one absorbing impulse.

When almost at the extremity of the
sands, near to Nevillstown, a hard, saturnine
laugh caused both to look forward,
where, coming towards them, Lucy Neville,
recognized Fanny Chalmers and a strange
gentleman.

These four persons, destined in the near
future to play so important a part in the
respective careers of each other, met and
passed onwards unnoticed, Fanny only
wishing to know from her companion
Who the strange man was who went

by."

Dorrington Harcourt replied, " I never
saw him before."

., •

That night Lucy Neville lay upon her
pillow, exhausted hy the exciting events of
the day, when turning restlessly towards
the casement she beheld to her dismay
those omens of ill to her race — the black
gulls.

Chapter XX.

The capture of the renowned rebel O'O'Grady
was indeed a triumph, the importance of
which could hardly be over-estimated, and
notwithstanding every exertion of the
authorities to the contrary the report of
the disaster reached his comrades in arms
in time, permitting of their escape before
the soldiers despatched against them could
reach the belligerent camp.

The patriots, of course, cursed their evil
star, while in official circles there was great
jubilation and triumph, the hero with the
latter element being Eobert Arkwright,
and even lordly was he feted on his exploit
in crushing the traitor.

There were not many who heard of that

remarkable mystic transparency witnessed
in Marcer's Hospital, or that Arkwright
displayed abject terror on seeing it, finally
becoming insensible ; but even these few
soon regarded it as apocryphal and unworthy
of credence.

The capture was speedily followed by
the appointment and opening of the
Commission to try 0' Grady, the Government
being represented by a very powerful
bar, while no stone was left unturned
to impanel a jury who would do their
work fearlessly, and, it might be, dispassionately
; but a verdict of " Guilty " was
necessary, and, as a matter of course, it
must be forthcoming.

At last the eventful day broke for the
trial, the accused, looking at the faint
sunshine upon the opposite wall, thought,
What right had the patriot rebel to the
smile of Heaven? " By upraising his arms
he could have felled to the ground these
men pinioning him as easily as he w r as

known in bygone days to place a twelve-foot
plank on the level and, by a standing jump,
to clear it from end to end ; but he submitted
with a haughty reserve, simply saying,
to reassure these functionaries of the law, —

Proceed with your office. Do your
duty. I am ready."

The stalwart prisoner now stepped into
the criminal's dock, regarding with a determined
air of lofty defiance all before
him, including the judge, counsel, jury,
and other officials incidental to the court.

What impertinence is in the fellow's
look," exclaimed one hot-headed, well-known
Government partisan.

"Av he'd lind ye a trifle av his lucks
for yer snuff-coloured muscle, yer wife id
be much obliged to him, or I'm mistaken,"
was swiftly retorted.

Arrah, don't be after annoying' the
gentleman. How cud he keep a wife whin
he can't keep a civil tongue ? " suggested
a confrere of the late speaker.

The irascible aristocrat now muttered
something inaudible, but evidently of a
passionate nature.

Is he contradiction' tinsel' again?"
was volunteered by another of the disputants.


No, the gentleman ses yer wrong, 'tis
his wife keeps him."

Bad luck to me, that accounts for his
eyes been' darned wit red thread" (alluding
to obvious blotches around the
eyelids).

These and other kindred colloquial items
formed a pastime until the Attorney-general
rose in his place and began a
narration of facts against the arraigned.

Dispassionate hitherto, the prosecuting
counsel reached the peroration, and then
his speech revealed such a broad leaven of
intolerant bigotry that many of those on
his side, including the Judge, regretted it
as calculated to embitter public feeling
rather than to allay it. When the Et. Hon.

gentleman resumed his seat there stole up a
faint buzz of approval, which was instantly
annihilated by the storm of indignant
hisses spontaneously yelled at him.

It was only by a supreme effort 0' Grady
maintained his temper, especially when
characterized by the first law-officer of
the Crown as the " renegade '•' and " outcast,"
abhorred of honest men, associate
of " thieves," " scoundrels," etc., etc.
Documentary evidence incriminating the
prisoner speedily followed, then the few
witnesses were easily got through, and at
last the well-known Eobert Arkwright,
agent of the wealthy English baronet, Sir
Mervyn Mervyn, was paraded, lighting
anew the flame of general interest.

A very showy examination was that of
the deputy by the senior counsel, at the
close whereof the former speedily descended
from the witness-table, while the
rebel chief was observed to move forward,
and bowing to the Judge, calmly said, —

"I demand the right to cross-examine
the last witness."

His lordship nodded affirmatively, accompanied
by "Certainly, certainly."

The middleman at once returned to the
table, when the prisoner began to interrogate
him : —

Have you told the court all you know
about me ? "

"Yes."

Concealing nothing ? "

"Nothing."

"Good or bad?"

I know nothing good of you,"
laughing, in which the Attorney General
joined.

"My Lord," urged the accused with imperturbable
gravity, "I have two requests
to make — first, I wish you particularly to
note that the witness swears he knows
nothing good of me "

That certainly is true," iterated the
agent.

"No interruption, please," enjoined his
lordship. "Your first request I have
noted, prisoner ; what is your next ? "

My lord, the next is that the
Attorney-general, who consorts with the
witness — ' '

Judge. — "I cannot hear — "

"In laughter, I was going to add, my
lord," O'O'Grady proceeded, "that the
Attorney General will not, and dare not,
look me straight in the face."

Amid the commotion following this
extraordinary statement, the Judge
heavenly exclaimed, " I must clear the
court if this unseemly state of things
continue, I cannot allow the public time to
be occupied unnecessarily. Is there anything
else yon wish to say, prisoner ? "

Has your lordship taken down my last
request? "

"Well, really, I cannot see its application."


You will by-and-by, my lord. I

repeat that the Attorney General dare not
look me in the face, much as he may indulge
in splenetic, unfounded verification shielded
by the law."

The Judge waved his hand imperiously,
Go down, witness," whereupon Arkwright
instantly disappeared, his lordship
continuing, "move back in the dock, prisoner."


I respectfully refuse to do so until I
cross-examine the last witness," said the
traitor composedly, followed by great
excitement.

The witness has been sufficiently long
on the table for you to have examined him
had you been so minded."

I would have done so if your lordship
had recorded my second request, which I
will hereafter prove to be fair and well-founded
in law."

You must not lay down the law, sir."

Nor can you, my lord, limit the
powers of defence, which that same law

confers upon every person in my position."


Go back, sir," was the mandate of the
Judge, whereupon 0' Grady turned to the
jury, observing, —

"I scorn your mercy, but I demand
justice."

Officers," his lordship peremptorily
ordered, " secure the prisoner."

With a spring the latter tossed the
first official out of his path, getting wedge-like
into an angle of the dock as he exclaimed,
" Move at your peril, no tyranny
shall restrain me from my lawful means of
defence : I defy you all."

The jailors faced him, but seemed unwilling
to attempt more, and, indeed, well
they might, for with those two ponderous
arms raised to his immense chest, they
full well knew he could have felled a
bullock by a single blow.

The public sprang upon the benches and
every available prominence, the excitement

fast boiling up to fever-heat, when, amid
the increasing tumult, one of the oldest of
the jury got up, saying in a tremulous
tone, —

My lord, it might be as well to recall
the late witness, and allow the prisoner to
examine him."

"Yes, if he attempts no further violence,"
responded the law-giver, inwardly
glad to end the commotion.

I shall adhere to my full legal rights,
and nothing less."

u And I will carefully guard against their
transgression," answered his lordship, adding,
" Call back the witness.' ' Whereupon
0' Grady said courteously, " Thank you,
sir," to the juryman who had interfered.

"Prisoner, address me in future," roared
the aged official irately.

To cross-examine the witness and
address the Judge is what I cannot do at
the same time ; therefore I shall attempt
the former only," observed the accused in a

jocose voice, as he turned to Arkwright,—
Now, sir, answer on your oath. Did I
ever aid you in any way ? "

"I submit that this is not relevant to the
issue," interposed the Attorney General.

As I do not see the face of the
objector I will not answer him ; but I
maintain, my lord, that whereas the agent
for Sir Mervyn Mervyn swears I never did
him a service, and as I can establish
beyond doubt that I saved his life," —
excitement, — "will it not prove that his
oath is worthless by my doing so ? "

Arkwright revealed alternately every
colour and shade in the rainbow during
this statement.

The Judge responded, "What you have
said appears to me but fair ; therefore you
may proceed with your questions without
fear of interruption."

You maintain that I never rendered
you a service ? " continued the rebel.

Never," was answered firmly.

vol. i. 18

Nor befriended you in any way ? " —
"No."

On your oath, Robert Arkwright, did I
not rescue you when bound to a post to be
shot ? "— " You did not."

On your oath ? " — " On my oath."

On the Bull Wall ? "— " No."

The night before you decoyed me to
Marcer's Hospital ? "— " No."

Nor you never told this to anyone ? '
—never."

That you swear ? "— " I do."

And if any one says so it is untrue ? "
u It is untrue,"

My lord, may I ask that the officials
from Marcer's Hospital be called ? '

Certainly, they are present," answered
the Judge.

Are any of the soldiers here who took
part in my arrest ? "

/ Yes, all of them."

Then I also claim the right to call
them."

These several witnesses individually and
collectively testified to that night's eventful
circumstances, the fiery simulation of
the Dangan eviction, the subsequent horror
of the agent, and his acknowledgment of
having been saved by the prisoner on the
previous night when tied to a stake to be
shot.

A tumult of agitated feeling now pervaded
the court, even those against the
accused wondering at the conduct of the
deputy and the mystic unaccountable
appearance in the hospital w T ard.

This, how T ever, came to an end, when
0' Grady observed, —

With your lordship's permission I will
address a few brief words to the Court,
when you can close this trial in the way it
was predestined from the beginning, for
I well know my doom."

Every one anticipated a fierce, fiery
harangue, for which the patriot was notorious,
but to their chagrin he quietly said, —

When called upon to plead to the
indictment, I said I was not guilty, though,
from your point of view, I must be wrong,
whereas from mine I know I am right, the
logical consideration now being, what is
your platform, what is mine ? By numbers
you conquered Ireland, but never did or
can subdue her. By force you maintain
a resolve to hold her prostrated, and all
the blood and money necessary to achieve
this sacrilegious end would not be considered
shed in vain. Is this right ? My
contention is, that nothing can justify
wrong. You have no claim upon us while
we have the memory of persecution and
our dispossessed fathers, whose blood will
still cry heavenwards until justice, if not
retribution, is decreed in the extermination
of the Saxons, as they have proved themselves
on our desecrated soil. Fulminate
your sentence against me, my lord. I have
no greater ambition than to die fearlessly
in the noble cause wherein I have humbly

served the emancipation of my native
land ; " suddenly adding, as if by impulse,
My lord, may I have the Hon. William
Fawkes called? "

What, my son ? " inquired the Judge.

The same, my lord."

"He is here, but I cannot understand
your motive."

While this witness was being sworn the
leading prosecutor sank upon his seat,
where, with drooped head and locked arms,
he remained motionless.

Were you not a student in Trinity
College"— "Yes."

We graduated together, did we not?"

"We did."

I may natter myself by saying we were
then intimate friends ? "

Yes, we were very intimate friends."

You are an Englishman ? "

"I am."

Yet you are not ashamed to avow this
intimacy ? ' '

"I cannot refrain from truth, and,
although we have not met for years, I
still hold the same conviction, that I can
never know or expect to find a nobler,
honest, more large-hearted man than my
former friend, Michael 0' Grady."

There was much amazement in the
court at this declaration, and, for the first
time throughout the case, the prisoner was
visibly affected ; however, he comported
himself firmly, although his voice apparently
faltered, as he responded, —

Thank you for those kind words here,
and when least expected:" continuing,
Now I come to a serious question. Mr.
Fawkes, did you at any time while in
College complain of various articles of property
having been pillaged from you ? " —
"Yes."

Did others complain? " — " Many."
Often ? "— " Several times."
Did you one day show me my stolen
watch"— "Yes."

Hid in a recess near the Provost's
house"— "Yes."

Did we together lie in ambush waiting
for the thief? "— " We did."

Did we succeed in detecting him ? "

"Yes, we captured him when passing
the porter's lodge with the watch."

"What did I do?"

You knocked him down with a single
blow."

"What else?"

The blow broke his jawbone."

True: was he afterwards expelled the
University"— "Yes."

"Have you ever seen this estimable
person since ? " — " I have."

Do you see him now ? " — " I do."

On your solemn oath, is not the so-called
Eight Hon. gentleman, the Attorney-general
for Ireland, that outcast of Trinity
College?"

He is."

"And the disfigurement of his face,

wherefore he could not look at rue, was
caused by my hand ? "
Yes, undoubtedly."

Amid the greatest excitement all eyes
are now concentrated on the benfc, immovable
figure of the first law officer of
the Crown ; but a deeper consternation was
yet in store, when the Solicitor-general,
approaching his leader, violently proclaimed,
— " My lord, the Attorney Generalis
dead ! "

It were fruitless to attempt a description
of the commotion attending this appalling
discovery, notwithstanding which,
an hour later, Michael 0' Grady was sentenced
to suffer the extreme penalty of
the law.

END OF VOL. I.

OF THL

UNIVERSITY

or ILLINOIS

A LIFE'S HAZARD;

OR,

THE OUTLAW OF WENTWORTH WASTE.

VOL. II.

OR,

THE OUTLAW OF WENTWORTH WASTE.

By henry ESMOND.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. 11.

London :
MOXON, SAUNDERS, AND CO.,

22, HENRIETTA STREET, COVENT GARDEN, W.C.

1880.

\ All rights reserved']

A LIFE'S HAZARD;

OR,

THE OUTLAW OF WENTWOETH WASTE.

Chapter I.

'have I interfered with your interesting
occupation ? ' ' inquired Vincent Harcourt,
of the cowering Brien Flynn.

'' Invade, sir, I wor only attindin' an
Mister "

'' I do not wish to hear what you were
doing," interposed the heir of Harcourt,
'' although you looked confoundedly
alarmed, for no visible reason except
that you saw me."

The agent's natural composure was fast
returning : Well, ye see, sir, as how I

VOL. II. 1

thought ye wor in England, an' 'tis no
wonder I grew frighted like ; bud Mister
Vincent, didn't ye meet the other gentleman,
Mister "

*^ I met no person, nor do I wish to see
any one but my father," he interposed
in a petulant tone, adding, '' Where is
Lord Harcourt at present?"

^' His Lordship's in the ould oak room
to the lift, where he generally sits at this
time, but av ye place, sir, I'll show ye the
door."

*^ No, no, thanks ; I will find my way
without your assistance. Who receives
the letters from the post ? " This question
was asked very abruptly, completely
throwing Flynn off his guard.

*' I do," replied the agent.

^^ Do you also post them ? "

'' I do, yer honour."

^* At all times?"

'' Yis, Mister Yincent."

Are you certain there is no one else
entrusted with this office ? "

''No wan, I alone hold the kay for
locking' or anlockin' the post-bag."

*' Thank you, that is all 1 wish to
know," responded the young heir, leaving
the room.

*' Oh me stars," pondered Flynn,
"haven't I sed an unlucky thing about
thin litters ; sure now they'll know who
inthersiptid thin, bad scran to me misfortune.
Oh dear, oh dear."

Vincent Harcourt's repeated knock at
the door of his father's apartment being
still unanswered, he turned the handle
softly, and letting himself in stood facing
the Lord of Harcourt, who was fast
asleep.

What agitating thoughts came to that
observer from the clouded past. A dim

remembrance of having seen that face
when there were none of those time
freighted lines rendering it so severe ;
when also another of soft benevolence was
linked with the picture, the form of his
mother growing up on the green page
of memory. But now this unconscious
sleeper alone remained, and Vincent
thought, does the departed keep watch
over the one left behind in his declining
years, or can she know that her only child
is here to wake a father's listless heart to
duty if not affection ?

Obvious of being the subject of so
much thought and speculation, the prematurely
aged Lord Harcourt still dozed
and dreamed.

There was the maid of his choice, noble
born, and looking nobility in her every
lineament and deportment, as, accompanied
by a large retinue, she stands

before the altar to become his spouse ; then
they were happy, their hearts' union being
strengthened by the birth of their only
son Vincent ; but alas, while the child
grew in vigour and comeliness, so did his
mother waste and pine, slowly ebbing
away in peace and tranquillity — from life's
changing scenes.

All this was accurately reviewed by the
deep thinker in his somnolent reverie, and
yet he dreamed further. ,

'where was now this child? had he
fulfilled his pledge to that dying wife
ever to tend and foster the boy for her
sake ?

'' No," he thought, " I have neglected
my duty both to you and him, not even remembering
the trust so warmly accepted.

'' Take care that you do not imperil his
future by longer neglect ; abandon such
selfishness and fulfil those overdue obligations

the dead ere it be too late," seemed
to vibrate tliroiigli his veins in some untoward
inexplicable manner, when, starting
up, perturbed and acrimonious from the
unpleasant theme. Lord Harcourt found
his son mutely regarding him.

'^ What do I behold? " exclaimed the
agitated parent, rubbing his bleared eyes.
^' Is it a mystification, or is it really you,
Vincent?"

^^ Vincent, father," was softly answered.

^' So I now perceive ; I was just dreaming
unpleasantly of you, but what do such
fancies signify? Nothing," and he attempted
to laugh.

^' For the last twenty minutes I have
stood in this place, not wishing to interfere
with your slumber."

'' Quite right, every one is forbidden
to disturb me." From his testy manner
and speech, it became evident that the

nobleman was fast reverting to his normal
self; he inquired, *^ What brought you
home without my licence, sir, a course
with which I am much dissatisfied ? "

*^ Dear father, I wrote you thrice in so
many weeks, setting forth my reasons for
desiring to return, but no answer came,
although a reply was entreated. Nor
have I heard from you since last we
parted."

'^ Come, sir, be guarded in what you
say, it is my turn to complain and to insist
upon knowing why I have not had any
communication from you, or even the
ordinary civility of an acknowledgment to
my several letters."

*' Father, there is some serious mystery
involved herein. I protest solemnly I have
not once heard from you, though having
frequently written, appealing for an
answer."

** Silence, boy ; indulge in no more misrepresentations,
whilst correctly describing
\Yliat I have to complain of, and you
could as easily account for unpardonable
neglect were yon so disposed."

'' I am sorry, may lord, that my positive
assurance will not insure credence."

*' Abandon this unbecoming conduct,
sir, you cannot deceive me," — his lordship
was growing warm.

^* I am incapable of the attempt, father ;
we have both been grievously wronged,
and I will endeavour to find a solution of
the mystery."

^* The thought is absurd ; what motive
would any one have in attempting to interfere
between Lord Harcourt and his
son ? " the old man tried to smile, but his
tenuous lips forbade the effort.

^' The consideration is a very simple
one," was replied; 'ewe both wrote at

various times, as none of these letters came
to hand they must have been abstracted
by some one or other intent on causing a
misunderstanding between us."

*' I will not be trifled with, sir ; you shall
now see the agent, who is responsible for
all my correspondence, a sufficient testimony
as to his being worthy of implicit
reliance. Touch that bell, please, and
then judge for yourself. Tell Mr. Flynn
I wish to see him." ^

^^Yes, me lord," replied the domestic,
leaving the apartment.

The deputy speedily afterwards entered,
looking the quintessence of meekness,
when Lord Harcourt observed, —

'' Be seated, Flynn."

Thank ye, me lord; av course I'll do
whatever ye order me, even to swim to
the bottom av the deep say," making an
obeisance to both his auditors.

'' Thank you, your sincerity is quite
obvious, but I wish my son to know who
manages the postal business on the estate."

'' Troth, an' I'm beholden' to yer lordship
for that same posishun, an' particular
I am that every litter goes or com's
punctually."

So I thought," was his employer's
pleased echo.

"■ Have you ever seen my handwriting ? "
inquired Vincent.

Not as I know av, yer honour."

'' Then naturally you could not recognize
my communications ? "

'' Troth, sir, how cud I ? "

^' Truly, but you have posted several
letters from me to Mr. Vincent. "

'' Oh, lots, yer lordship, an' careful I
wor in coin' so."

*^ Are you a good judge of handwriting,
Mr. Flynn? " the young man demanded.

^' Not much, yer honour, seen' as how
me idicashun's limited."

'yet you appear able to decipher law
papers and abstruse deeds."

'' Arrah ! sir ! what d'ye mayne ? " with
eagerness.

*' Those documents you had in your
possession when I encountered you."

*' Oh, me jewel, yer honor, I beg yer
lordship's pardon, bud I've got such a
sudden spasm — colic like," and certainly,
he looked aghast as though undergoing
physical pain.

His employer in kindly tones suggested,
—

Will you have a stimulant, Flynn ? "

"Aver lordship an' Mister Vincent
id be after excusing' me I'd just retire an'
take a dose av a pripirashun I always
keep for these occasions," the looked-for
Yes, of course," following this appeal

being the signal for the agent's retirement.


'how lucky I got away in time,"
thought Brien, "bud av Eustace Dillon
gits hould av Mister Vincent, knowing
I'm responsible for the post, 'twill
be a serious matter to fought his long
hed."

The frank, open-hearted heir of Dare-court
never divined the true cause of
Flynn's flight, but sat following the tangled,
captious, attemptedreasoningpursued
by his irascible parent, the hour growing
late and the swelling wind labouring in
startling gusts, agitating the heavy tapestry
and driving the sparks lightly upwards,
while pursuing its rebellious route through
the cavernous chimney.

The old man drew his chair nearer to
the fire, saying, —

'' What a wild night ! It is better to be

housed than exposed to the fury of such a
storm."

^^ But, father, Providence has blessed us
with His bounty, while many, alas ! are at
this moment roofless and starving."

The bounty of Providence has nothing
to do with the Harcourt property, sir.
As for those whom you describe, I say it
is quite right that they are in want if
they will not work."

^* Yet they may not be able, or even,
granting the latter provision, may be unsuccessful
in obtaining work," somewhat
timidly urged the son.

^*In either case let them starve; the
deduction being that with money people
can live, without it they must perish."

^' You were not wont to hold these
strong opinions."

^' My eyes are opened, sir, by what I have
seen and heard from my valued agent."

^' I am afraid, my lord, I could never
fancy.eithertliis individual or his theories."

^' Circumstances may compel you to do
both. Listen to me. When you succeed
to my position and find these Irish unwilling
to pay except under extreme pressure,
— Oh, dear, what a flash !" ejaculated
the speaker, the electric fluid illumining
the apartment, and interrupting Lord
Harcourt's speech.

Vincent soon after addressed his parent,

■1!

asking, — •

^^ Who told you the Irish were unwilling
to pay?"

'' Brien Flynn."

*' He appears to have a bad opinion of
almost every one."

^' He has," was hastily replied ; '^ and I
admire his conduct for that reason ; were
he less assiduous in protecting my interests,
no doubt he would be popular."

*^ That can never be," exclaimed the son
resolutely.

'^ Pray, sir, why do you hazard this
sterile opinion'* inquired Lord Dare court,
elevating his small eyes with marked
curiosity.

^* Dear father, I know it on good
authority."

^'Be so kind as to say what that
is?"

^^Mr. Eustace Dillon."

*^ Is it possible," screamed the old man
haughtily, ^' that you dare to quote that
miscreant as an authority, or even mention
his name in my presence ? ' '

^^ I was not aware that he had offended
any one," was volunteered penitentially.

'^ He has, sir. This same Dillon is the
mainspring of all the bad, vengeful feeling
moving the tenantry against my agent for
merely doing his duty."

'' Does the information respecting
Mr. Dillon come from Flynn?"

'' It does."

'^ I thought so," Vincent diylj observed,
continuing, ^' May I inquire if Mr. Dillon
is in any way indebted to the estate ? "

' Unfortunately, no ; the agent only waits
this opportunity to oust him altogether."

Then, father, Mr. Dillon, at all events,
is not one of those who wish to evade
paying their lawful debts."

^' But Flynn adds that the tenants wholly
maintain him, he being of such use in
helping them to thwart me," answered
the senile nobleman with warmth.

"This is really going too far. Mr.
Dillon is not wealthy, but I will pledge
my truest honour that he is a gentleman
in the most conservative sense of
which that term is susceptible."

A gentleman," hissedLordDarecourt;

'that fellow a gentleman, who Brien
avers is wholly incapable of doing anything
but sit in the drinking-shop and
stir up drunken brawls."

^'Your informant has falsely and malignantly
perverted truth." This was exclaimed
in an earnest voice of genuine
feeling, which Vincent suddenly arrested,
saying, " Pardon my intemperate speech,
but I feel you have been deeply, wilfully
deceived."

The aged lord was now thoroughly
heated, assuming a louder tone of voice
than it was supposed he possessed, partly
due to the subject-matter arousing his ire,
and partly to the stormy elements without,
making low speech very difficult to
be heard.

The unusual epithet applied by his son
to the trusted deputy fired him with an
ungovernable passion, smothering all else

VOL. II. 2

in its intensity but the desire to stigmatize
Eustace Dillon, and every one and
everything Irish as paltry, servile, and
despicable.

I will allow no person to traduce my
agent, sir," he ground between his gums.

^'You speak of him, father, as you
believe him to be*' was answered demurely.


^' As I know he is."

'' May I not plead for what I know of
Mr. Dillon in the same way?"

^' Not to the disadvantage of Brien
Flynn. I repeat this Dillon is a vile, disreputable
person, whom no one of respectability
would acknowledge, but that
equally contemptible jade they call
Neville."

Hold," protested the heir of Dare-court,
'ein my presence not even a father
shall speak of Miss Lucy Neville in terms

other than those befitting an undoubted
Irish gentlewoman."

''Ha! ha!" sneered Lord Harcourt
scornfully, confronting his son, who also
rose.

'^ This so-called Lady "

'* No one dare style her otherwise,"
was firmly interrupted.

'' You saved her life."

*' I did not, father, she saved mine."

'^ Ha! ha! very good, very good. Flynn
has stated the reverse. However, you
seem to take an unusual interest in
this — well, say lady for courtesy's sake."

'^ My lord ! Miss Neville is already the
talisman controlling my whole future."

'' What do you mean ? " restraining his
seething fury.

'' This day I besought her, to whom I
owe my life, to honour me with her hand."

Great heavens ! " yelled the liege of

Darecoiirt, livid with rage, bis emaciated
body swaying towards the door, motioning,
*^ Depart, renegade to my name
and family. Marry ber, and I will visit
you both with my lasting malediction ;
my curse shall enthrall thee and thine
throughout existence."

As the banished Vincent Harcourt
silently passed out from the home of ibis
forefathers, that revengeful parent, actuated
by some unknown influence, moved to the
window, looking after him, when he beheld
the figure of his deceased wife on the lawn
The lurid, dazzling lightning playfully
disporting around her, while, with averted
face she pointed down the long, dark
avenue, where the retreating form of their
offspring was at times visible. The recollection
of the late dream flashed upon him
in all its force, and in an agony Lord
Harcourt frantically shrieked, —

^^ Come back, Yincent, come back, return
to your father," but an unearthly
voice swept past the bereaved parent,
prostrating him by that awful sentence,
^'Too late, too late! 1! "

CHAPTEK II.

*' Marvellous 1" ejaculated Mr. Warrington
Harcourt, as the agent chuckled over his
narration of the interview between the
lord of Harcourt and his son.

'sid wor most natural like, sir, to seethe
way I grew suddenly afflicted whin
Mister Vincent commenced about laygal
deeds an' parchments — ha, ha."

<* Very fortunate that it ended so ; but
from what I hear of this Eustace Dillon,
it will make a deep impression on him,
should my cousin name the subject."

*' Which he is martin' to do, sir, an' whin
the big hed av Dillon begins thinking' the

litters all went through me hands an' av
the documents Mister Vincent seen, who
knows where 'twill stop ? "

^^Yes; this necessitates some practical
steps being taken to prevent their meeting,
although I must confess it baffles my
comprehension how to effect that end."

^' Haven't ye got enos av written communications
from 0' Grady yit ? "

^^ To convict Dillon — yes, but not sufficient
to seriously compromise my cousin."

^^Budnow's the time, Mister Warrington,
while Lord Darecoort's in his present
temper. Git Mister Vincent into som'
illegal con nix shun wdd the rebel, an' the
gay's ours thin an' there."

'^ The latter is very guarded," was
responded.

^' Howsomever he already behaves ye're
me lord's son ; pump him dry till ye're
got all ye want, thin hand him over to

Mister Arkwright, who'll only be too
glad av the job, while Eustace Dillon an'
Mister Vincent are taken care av in
another way."

^^Ha! O'O'Grady told me he would
attend the Malahide Fair despite every
precaution."

'hurrah! Thin that's just the place
to grip him, an' I'll git Sir Marvyi^'s
agent to move at want."

"But, Flynn, this does not avail us
against the others."

"Three for ye, Mister Dorrington,
except thraysonible litters from the
rebel wor found an thin, thin the quarry

is ours."

*^ I am not very hopeful, believing that
we cannot move any father without aid*.

Why not secure Miss Chalmers, sir?
wit her help the ship rights at want."

'*A very good notion upon my word,

were it not that I would rather have succeeded
to the position before deciding
one way or the other as to marrying."

*ahem I why not marry her an the
crass " (placing his two fingers over each
other), '^ an' giv her up whin ye place."

'^Flynn!" was vehemently exclaimed,
'' never dare to insinuate such a damnable
thought again, or we separate from that
moment, no matter how identical appear
our interests. I may be driven by circumstances
to acts of crime and debasement,
but at least I know what I shall
not become."

^' Why, sir, me thought was we'd behave
as other gentleman do''

** 'Tis false ! They are not gentlemen,
and are unworthy of that name. I shall
be none of them ! "

The speaker walked the floor in passionate
fervour.

''I am sorry, Mister Dorrington, to
haV "

'* There," lie interposed testily, ^' let it
pass ! When you know me better, you
will find I am not so heartless as maybe
imagined."

The agent now looked upon his confrere
with evident admiration, saying, —

Well, sir, there's no heart bud has a
wake spot, an' I'm not likely to forget
years — all honour d'ye for that same."

*' I am glad you seem to understand me.
It will aid us considerably when knowing
how far to proceed, and where to stop."
Dorrington Harcourt continued, —

"Your consistency in always upholding
the power of Miss Chalmers to assist
me is somewhat remarkable, and I shall
think it over seriously."

'' Do, sir. Through her ye can strike
home to Eustace Dillon direct."

He looked eagerly across the table to
note the effect of those words on his
companion.

^^ How so?"

^' Be making' her comprehend ye enos
to pine in "

^^ In what, pray? "

-^ Why running' Dillon to bay — or, I
may say, prison."

'' Certainly it would be an odd request,"
the young man observed, with a half-smile.

Stay, sir, may I ax whin will ye see
Miss Fanny again ? "

That depends on myself, although I
am bound by promise to go yachting with
her round the coast for a day."

A good opportunity, Mister Dorking
ton, to git her to understand ye."

'' Understand me ! " was echoed.

Yis, sir. Miss Chalmers is a fanciful,
ambishus teddy. Teller," — heros quickly

Iron the table, — 'she can help ye to
become' Lord Darecoort, an' she will."

"How so?"

"Be putting' the rebel's packet av litters
in Eustace Dillon's pocket."

Which will involve an explanation,
Flynn."

'Tis bekayze Dillon is plotting' wider
cousin to deprive ye av yer property be
false deeds, an' av course she thinks yeare
Mister Vincent, an' not herself at
all at all."

Suppose I go thus far, and that she
consents, how can she accomplish it ? "

Aizey," answered the agent, his pallid
face beaming with delight. " Her sister
keeps company wit a young brother av
Eustace Dillon, who'll do just as he's would,
for the raison Eustace is down an him
bekayze he courts her."

Upon my word, Flynn, you are most

facile in the various ways for arriving at
any required end, and I really applaud your
plan on the present occasion ; indeed, the
only difficulty lies with myself, whether
I can go so far as to ask Miss Chalmers
to do as suggested."

^* Look ye, Mister Dorrington," said
the deputy warningly, ^^ there's no time to
loose. Last night I kep me ears open
an the outside av the door, listhnin' to me
Lord an' Mister Vincent; well whin the
split ken, an yer cousin went away, the
ould man cried like a banshee av winter's
morning' — ay, even call'd his son back, bud
fortunately his words wor not hard in
the wind. Howsomever, I hard thin, an'
id shakes no good for us aether."

"Yet, their separation is irrevocable,
is it not?"

I don't know, sir, blood is thicker
nor father. I think, me Lord' 11 repent.

an' tis a close eye I'll keep out for litters,
seen' how that's the grate card; so long
as Mister Vincent doesn't hear from his
father we're an the winning' side, an' the
ould Lord '11 git so annoyed been' nigh
he'll carry out his thirsts."

Vincent cannot possibly be disinherited,
and assuredly he knows this."

^'Bud, Mister Dorrington, don't ye see
we'll disinherit him, even av his father
can't, only 'twill bring public opinion
an our side, known' Lord Darecoort did
all he cud again Mister Vincent."

That's reasonable to a degree."

*' I'm glad ye see id in that light, sir.
Now be guided be me, git Miss Fanny
to undertake the work. Whin she's ruddy,
hav sufficient av writing' from 0' Grady
to transport thin all; thin, an' not till
thin, ye can kalkilate an success."

'rit shall be even as you say, Flynn. I

will take the opportunity of our yachting
cruise to enlist Miss Chalmers in the
service, for I now see her value."

^' Thank ye, sir, an' more."

^' What more, pray?"

^^ Ye'll never carry the day without Miss
Chalmers." There was a ring of triumph
accompanying this elated expression.
'say, sir," he added, ^^ an' av I'm not
desayv'd ye'll found her av more vale
whin ye are me Lord Darecoort."

'' There is some fatality about this girl,"
the young man thought; ^^she presses me
to marry her, while he points to her power,
even in the consolidation of my future.
This is a synchronism of ideas worth
remembering, and at times I feel as if I
would cherish, if not love her, were she my
wife. I will think it over," he now added
aloud, '' and follow your suggestions so far
as can be. In any case I shall abridge my

visits to the recluse of the Waste, and
secure his views concerning my cousin and
Dillon in writing, wherewith we will be
fully armed to clear our paths whenever
it becomes necessary to do so."

'^ Id is necessary now, Mister Warrington,
loose this chance and we'll never git
another."

'then be it so : " for the first time
throughout their clandestine acquaintance
Mr. Dorrington Harcourt presented his
hand to Brien Flynn, when, with mutual
gleams of real earnest accord, they returned
each other's friendly pressure, the younger
one silently passing from out the agent's
apartment.

The latter had had no time to indulge
in pleasurable communing, his late visitor
having hardly withdrawn ere another presented
himself with the greeting, —

"How d'ye do, Brien?"

"Ah, is that yersel', Koddy ? " was
the welcoming response.

Troth id is, an' how are ye ? "

Only among the middling's."

Mush ! an' isn't id bitter than
trudging' to market, wit a wuddin stump,
anyhow," observed the visitor smiling, to
which the deputy answered, — ^

'-' The baker afore the doctor is good
advice."

'* Com, com, ye mustn't forget when I
don' yer docthorin' business, calling' an
Mister Dillon every day to blind him
an' his friend about Miss Neville."

"Ah, sure I forgot, I overlooked
that, ha, ha, ha 1 it wor well managed
invade," and Brien Flynn laughed with
genuine feeling at the pleasurable reminiscence.


After some uninteresting personal
subjects had been debated between them,

VOL. II. 3

Koddy said suddenly, '*I didn't see ye
since me miraculous askance from transportation."


'' What are ye after saying' ? "

^' Transportation, an' civil a lie in
id."

*' Its what ye deserve, an' what ye '11
com' to, av ye don't put an ould head an
yer young shoulders."

Barbers," was retorted, *' 'tis all the
other way."

The uncle scarcely relished the pointed
allusion, saying, ^' Let's hear about yer
trouble, what wor it ? "

'^ Body-snatching', that's all."

^^ Roddy, who put this illigant thrace
afore ye ? "

'^ Well, d'ye see, Doctor McGuinness
called me, and ses he, ' Roddy, are ye
up to a trifle av diversion ? '

*^ ' Arrah, doctor, jewel,' ses I, ' found

out something' I'm not up to, an' ye'll
oblige me' — making' me manners at the
same time, and why not?"

** Yer not up to much good anyhow,"
interrupted the agent with a leer.

*' 'Tis the picture av yersel' to a turn
ye're after drawing," urged Eddy,
howsomever the doctor continued, ^ I
don't want ye to graze me wit yer soft
words,' ses he, 'bud cum to the print.'

*' ' Manners, t'yer bitters, is an ould
aim among dancing people,' ses I, 'you
go first.'

*' ' Then,' ses he, ' I'm starting' for a
subject to-night.'

'' ' A what, doctor ?' ses I.

'' 'A subject,' ses he.

'' ' An' sure,' ses I, innocently, ' appo-
blackstone fits is not the name av yer
subject ? '

* Oh, dear, no,' he went an similis'

kindly enos, ' I mayne I'm going' to they
for a body in the churchyard.'

'^'A dead wan?' ses I.

''^Yis, an' what other?' ses he.

^' ' Take care 'tis not a live wan ye '11
catch.'

^' ^ What d'ye mayne ? ' he axed.

^' ' Only this, doctor, I'm would there's a
regular watch an the look-out every night.'

'' ' Let's return the compliment,' ses he,
we'll watch first : something' must be don',
Eoddy, for d'ye know, I kep' me class av
stewdints cutting' away an the outside av a
bellyful body av an ould warrior, till they
went too far down an' found out.'

^' ^ What, doctor?' I strayed.

*' ^ Id wor only a dummy, bill av plaster
av Paris or painted putty.'

^''I putty ye, doctor,' ses I, 'fi'om
the bottom av me heart; bud what's to
be don ? '

'* ^ Don,' ses he, warmly, ^ the reputation
av the living' must be preserved at the
expense av the dead. Here's a crown,
Koddy,' he went an, tossing' me the coin,
^ thrive should mare over to-night, an'
wit the blessing' av Divin we'll make a
good haul, subject an' whisky included.'

*^ ^ Doctor,' ses I, gripped' the shiner,
^ 'tis unnatural to lit ye go alone fain' the
living' and the dead, so I'll be to the fore
in time, although, mind ye, I don't know
as how I'd go after all, only for the cutting'
up we'd git, av the putty-faced warrior ken
to life wit the publick ? *

'' * Yer a man av wonderful feeling,'
ses he, takin' hould av me hand, and
biggest umbrella in the world cudn't
stand the shower he threw from my
poor gathering eyes."

^^ Arrah, com to the ^ skill,' " observed
the uncle petulantly.

** I ve hard av a goose quill, Brien ; is
that what ye mayne?"

^' Pasha ! what timid brains — did ye
git the subject or not ? " irately.

The doctor did, an' "

^'An' what?"

'^ I dhriv the pair home."

'' While ye walked yersel' ? "

'■'' Ha ! ha ! that's good, walk an' thrive
at the same time, Brien," he laughingly
resumed. ^'Divil a foot, there I sat, the
doctor an wan side, I an 'tother, wit the
dead man bethany us, dressed respectable
an' life-like as the doctor's black clothes
an' hat cud make him."

'' Why go to that expense and trouble
? " inquired the agent, looking interested
for the first time.

^^Id cudn't be helped; ye see there
wor only two av us for the job, be the
time we got ruddy to travel backwards id

wor brain' day, so lucky the doctor's
clothes ken in handy."

*' Wor ye afeared, Eoddy ? "

'^ An the contrary, the more whisky I
got, the more I admired the spirit ; away
we went sticky an' comfortable through
the city, no wan minding' us an' we carinas
much for thin."

^' Thin ye got home all right, av
course ? "

*^ Av course we didn't."

The uncle rose with excitement.

Arrah, what happened ? "

^^Sit down, man, an' don't stand for-inst
me an' the wind. That 'ill do," as
the listener relapsed into his seat. ^^ The
morning' wor very could, an' thinking' as
how 'twould warm him up somehow I
struck a dhudeen bethany the lips av me
thoughtful lookin' naybor^ who can't
shake a word an his own account, though

mind ye, for every drop the doctor an'
mesel' tuck, I held up the bottle to this
silent gentleman, an' why not ? bud as he
didn't seem in good humour I bowed,
within' him the compliments av the samson
an' hoping' he wor comfortable, as I let
down his share to me own shocking
an' wouldn't id be unnatural av
I didn't, Brien ? "

'* Well, what happened, Eoddy ? go
an, man, an' finish," said the agent, in
annoyed, dissatisfied tones.

*' Only this. Fist as I hung the pipe out
av his Hps the ould mare shied, bad scran
to her, an' pitched us three in the road."

^*0h, dear!" exclaimed Flynn, again
starting from his seat.

"Ay, it's truth for ye, Brien," Eoddy
continued. '* Afore we had time to turn
round, the watchmen carried the silent
gentleman into the stashun, for wasn't id

right opposite' their own door where we
wor upset.' "

** Great powers ! " was farther ejaculated
by the uncle, *' did ye run away ? ' "

** Pshaw ! " contemptuously, *' what good
'id that do ? no, the watchmen ran out,
saying, ' The poor gentleman seems as av
he wor dead, invade ! "

** I thought what all the min sed wor
strict truth ; bud av course the doctor
knew bitter, * Nonsense,' ses he, ' he's-only
shunned. Git hot father at want,
an' carry him up quickly to me room ; ' for
d'ye see he wor margin to the government,
an' had his private apartments in the
stashun."

Are ye to be hanged for id ! " inquired
Brien.

'* Devil a bit," answered Eoddy. *^ All
the day long there wor no thin' coin' bud
bilin hot rags to make bread poultices, an'

I coffin thought, it wor a sin to see the
waste. Me post wor the door, an' whin
word ken to know how the doctor's friend
felt, I always spoke to orders, an' sed
he wor a trifle bitter."

'^ But did he recover ? " was Flynn's
earnest inquiry.

** I don't know, Brien, we struck to the
bread an' father, drunk whisky, an'
smoked while the silent gentleman kep
his distance, as we did till id got dark.
Now is our chance,' ses the doctor,
an' I'll give ye a golden guinea av we
succeed'"

*' Tell me, what did ye do ? " inquired
the uncle, looking painfully anxious now.

'^ The minded chaise wor brought round
to the back door, and wit the help av two
watchers, the Doctor an' mesel', we carried
the margin's hind downstairs tenderly.

'' ' Oh, wurra, wurra ! bud doesn't he

look pale an' like a corps sed the watch-min,
as their eyes filled. ' Three for ye
I thought to mesel' ; bud the doctor, ina
steaming' parspirashun as he held an to
the hed part, ses, ' Aizey, me friends ;
thank ye, but don't shake loud or ye' 11
wake him. Keep the light from his eyes,'
he whispered, as wan av thin brought his
lamp too close. The gentleman didn't
wake up, though the margin shore awful
till the lamps war all gon ; ^ Now thin.'
ses he, while hoisting' up his silent friend,
^ 'tis a savage attack, bud in me own
house he'll soon com' to."

The agent's voice rang with emotion
as he asked, —

^'Did he com' to?"

^* Yis," answered Eoddy, *' to quarters,
the next day the putty warrior wor gon,
the silent gentleman in his plaice, an
Doctor M' Guinness drinking' his helfch.'

CHAPTER III

A FEW nights after 0' Grady was sentenced
to be executed, the '* Harcourt Arms "
presented one of its ordinary features — the
usual replenishing of glasses and charging
of pipes followed as the accustomed corollary
upon the landlord taking his seat,
wherefrom his liquid eye and facile tongue
sought out every one individually, saying
a pleasant word to all.

It vas not long before the Harcourt
business became the general subject of
notice and remark, angry, hot words assuming
the place of the previous hilarity.

'' There's no denying' we're much worse

aff nor we wor churn' the short time the
young lord ken among us, God bless him."

^^ Ay, three for ye, bud Mister Eustace
ses as how there isn't a chance av his
returning', at all at all."

That's bad news in troth, yet who'd
know except Mister Dillon, more power
to his big heart."

^^ That blackguard Flynn's going' from
bad to worse, still the longish lane has
an ind, and he'll found id out sooner nq^
he expects."

From the foregoing it will be gathered
that the theme was the reverse of enlivening,
and noting its depressing effect on
trade, the landlord sought to arrest its continuance,
saying in a half-meditative tone, — .

** I often wonder how that dancing boy,
the young lord had wit him — I mayne the
soldier — gits an."

^^ Ah, sure wit such a wan as Mister

Vincent wherever they are they'll thrive.
Here's their good health anyhow," was
warmly responded.

^' The last time we met," continued the
former, " he would me a rays .piece av a
(what d'ye call id, a — a" — hesitating —
'* a narrative), sure that's the word at
any rate."

^^ Mine host " was making money faster
than he ever expected, and one of his weaknesses
was to ^'listhen to his litters," and
in whatever way he could afterwards recollect
employ some of the expressions thus
heard, which it is needless to affirm he did
not understand ; his audience being of the
same mental calibre, avoided any reference
to authenticity or correctness, while the
landlord winked to himself at the visible
surprise his '^jawbreakers " created.

'' Oh, do tell us the nar — nar — whatever
ye call id," was entreated.

*^ Ye mayne the narrative," he replied
rebuking, continuing in a lower tone,
** Av course we're not all blessed wit the
same mine of intelligence, bud I'll make
would to state, I'll hold me own wit any
two min this side av the father."

Com, this side of the whisky, an'
I'll be after belayvin' ye," interrupted
one of the Harcourt habitues, whereupon
the landlord quickly retorted, —

'* Thomas Muldhoon, a loose tongue's
like a disabled bellies troubled in the
wind. Don't, — I mayne id kindly, — bud
don't be after airing' yer conceits, or
I'll com up to the live av a new article,
an' blow ye to blazes ! "

Tom slunk into a corner, obviously
*^ burst " in public estimation, when with
the prefatory remark, " I must tell id
me own way," the ^* narrative " commenced.


Behold ye all there wor a poor officer
bud a rays three blood belonging' to the
ridgmint, not been' able to pine in the
diversion, an' the civil knows what wit
the rest, who wasn't hae so good, though
they had the longest purses ; wan way or
other they med the rays gentleman feel at
times as av he'd chaw thiminto bird-seed,
or blow his brains out — not an ayzey
matter mind ye, whin ye hav a fair
share to boot, ay, an' a trifle to lind."

The speaker bent his head, and placing
his finger laterally upon it drew it around
its whole base. When one of the auditors,
colloquially known as *^ Cup-o'-Tay,"
ventured on remarking, —

'^ Ah, dear me, isn't his nakedness a
wonder to behold ? most people they to
found brains in the formed, bud the landlord's
contint wit the thick av his neck."

** So far as brains go, 'tis neck an'

nothing' wit ye, anyhow," shouted irrepressible
Tom from the corner.

Elevating his eyes, which had observed
a downward posture throughout this unseemly
interruption, ^* mine host" said, —

'Tis very hard to wound the light

heart or give a knock-down blow to the

spirits, for sure I wor want giddy as

the barn-door cock, finding' the usual hole

in the kitchen stopped — the civil resayv'

the foot he'd go to roost till the front door

wor held open while he waltzed through

the hall. Now I've learned sense, an' I

advise ye all, make yer brains pull ye

up in the world, don't they to pull thin

down."

A chorus of assent greeted this effusion,

which manifestly pleased the narrator,

who continued, —

"As I told ye, the young officer felt

poor whin all behind an' afore him look'd

VOL. II. 4

rich devil-may-care, bud the hardest nut to
crack wor the kurnal, an' the three blood
seriously considered whether he'd horsewhip
has a dozen av thin all together, wit
the sartine av been' cashiered, an' a full
pinching, or coax thin out an a bit av pleasure,
an' giv thin the chance av brain'
his neck or minding' the hole in their own
manners."

At this point Tom opened his widemouth,
with the intention of again interrupting
the ^^narymative," whereupon the
interested Widow Flanagan suddenly
thrust the large weight of the eight-day
clock far and fast into this facial cavern,
holding on to the heavy chain, while
motioning him — semi-asphyxiated as he
was — to be silent until the story had
finished, and certainly she succeeded;
neither Tom nor the clock being heard
again while the recital lasted.

The landlord, unmindful of either untimely
event, proceeded, —

'* Fist whin the poor gentleman, God
help him ! " (^^ God help me ! " mentally-prayed
Tom) *^ felt determined to bring
his misery to an ind," (the consideration
below the clock appendage was " Whin
will mine ind ? ") '^ it happened wan night
after dinner" (somebody internally sighed,
^ ' Av a weight is a delicacy, your weaken
to me dinner ; ") '^ the kurnal, who got in «
intoxicated, wanted to play cards — not our
rays diversion, behold ye, av the splice
five," ('' Mine id splice a dozen," thought
Tom wearily) ^' whin av necessary, ye can
hav a fair stand-up fought, shake hands,
an' play again till the time cons round, whin
whoever got bate thrys to return the compliment,
bud the kurnal 's wor wan av thin
things as puts ye to sheep," (Tom wearily
mused, *' There's a trifling' impediment to

^tUmsiTY OF Illinois

me sleep ") *' after ye're had too much
av the craythor, as in his case." (The
weight alone, without the case, was too
much for some person.) '* Begorra ! I almost
forget the name, hekayze the gay's
bad ; " hesitates, '' 'Tis rouze-ye-wor."

*' What a murdherin' name ! " remarked
the ^'Widdy Flanagan," somewhat unguardedly,
loosening the weight in Tom's orifice,
who thereupon stiflingly muttered, —

^^ I wish id wor rouze ye are " — but the
next moment the weight and chain had
again found refuge in his abnormal recess,
all indeed save the last link of the latter,
and as if to annihilate the possibility of
further manifestations of feeling, the
indefatigable widow supplemented the
aforesaid implements by driving half
her elbow down after them, though
well for her it was that Tom could not
bring his teeth together by reason of the

first gag, or assuredly she would not
have regarded him with such stolid indifference
while the ^' narrative proceeded."


*' The poor officer cudn't pay av he
lost the game, so very discreetly he sat
stain' at nothing' an' pickin' his teeth."
(Tom, from his lowly station, was convinced
it would afford him great pleasure
to pick somebody above him.) " The old
hot-headed kurnal went asleep, while the
other illigants kep' an at the ,"
(the captive mused, 'alas! rouze
id isn't ! ") " till he woke up suddenly
shouting', ' Who stole me diamond snuffbox
? ' Every eye turned an the rays
gentleman, who spoke not a word," (Tom
thought he knew another who could say
as much) '^ an they at want put him
down for having' the diamonds."

*' Sure, place God, he didn't do such

a dirty thrice," eagerly interposed the
relict Flanagan.

^'I'm coming' to id," answered the landlord,
proceeding ; 'but sartine the chain
av circumstances seemed strong again
him, an' had to be broken " (Tom was
positive the chain of the clock was stronger,
and ought to be broken first ;) '^ so they
determined an shutting' the door an marching'
every soul in the room . Whin they turned
themselves inside out, they ken to the
silent officer, bud the bold boy ses, 'I'm
a gentleman, there's me sword,' holding'
the polished pot-thick afore their' noses."

'' I hope id smelt too sharp for thin,"
gleefully suggested Tom's captor.

'' A little id do me good," was the
captive's decided opinion.

*' snow,' ses he," continued the landlord,
'^ ' the first man puts a hand an me
'ill hav to crass wipons,' thro win the steel

poker an the table, waiting' to see who'd
take id up," ('' I'd take id in preference to
a clock weight," Tom pondered despondingly,)
^^but not a soul attempted to
touch id," fiercely shouted the narrator.

*alas! so I feel," was Tom's bitter
lamentation.

^^ What did the blackguards do ? "
inquired the exasperated Flanagan, in
excitement.

*^ Put up wit id," answered the landlord
sternly.

Sure mine is put down," said poor
Tom unheard.

*' How will id ind ? " broke forth from
the trembling, anxious widow.

** Ay, ay ! how will id ind ? " formed
one absorbing time consideration.

^' I observe yer impatience," resumed
mine host, '^ so I'll conclewd."

The thought below the buried weight

was, 'i'm impatient, bud I'm gum-chewed."


*' Whin things go farthest," (Tom was
positive his jaws had never been so long
and far apart before,) '' they generally
take a turn t'other way."

Poor Tom's effort to turn the other
way was a signal failure.

'' The kurnal," exclaimed the landlord,
rising in his chair, '' becoming' nervous at
the idaya av a fought, flustered in every
diricshun, suddenly discovered the cursed
diamonds in a pocket av the new coat he
had an, whin, ye may depend, a grate load
wor lifted aff the poor officer's mind."

I'll share an me Bible oath the last
part av the narrative is three anyhow,"
stiflingly groaned Tom, as the Widow
Flanagan tugged her elbow, the weight
and chain out of his enlarged throat.

"Abandon your frivolity and follow me,"

admonished Eustace Dillon, whose ashy
face was suddenly seen at the door, wherefrom
he continued in stern tones, ^' The
hour af woe has struck, see ! " (pointing
outwards) ^^the night-star of the ruins
is on fire ! "

Semi-suppressed shrieks and murmurs
attended this announcement, its import
being vividly reflected from the timid,
abashed looks of those now moving on
tip-toe after him. «

Far-off, on the summit of Wentworth
Waste, a tiny light faintly flickered 'mid
the overwhelming darkness. Thrice it
was elevated and lowered ; finally — at the
hollow, almost imperceptible sound of a
horn — being extinguished.

^^ Oh, Mister Eustace," pathetically
pleaded Cup-o'-Tay, '^ who is dead ? "

*' Some heavy misfortune has befallen
us, but what it is I know not," was replied

in accents of woe ; and silently they
press onward.

Beaching the outskirts of the Waste,
they found many already assembled gazing
in mute anxiety towards its cone, the
summons of that light and horn usually
denoting death to one of them.

*^ Forward ! " vociferated Eustace Dillon,
crossing the boundary outside of which
they apprehensively stand, whereupon a
general ascent was commenced.

Toiling upwards 'mid the dark entanglements
arresting each step, the foremost
of these plodders reached the ruins, but
hesitates and falters ; no human form
being discernible on the plateau as expected.


^' This is strange," muttered the leader ;
^'I will call aloud;" whereupon he demanded,
'^ Who fired the night-star of
the Waste?"

'^ A friend to 0' Grady," was instantly
replied in a clear, soft, feminine voice.

'' Oh, alas ! is he dead ? "

^^ No, he yet lingers," still answered
from within the ruins.

'^ What would you with us ? " continued
the interrogator.

If the questioner wishes to be foremost
amongst those loyal to the patriot,
let him come to me unattended, and he
shall know." ^

These words were hardly spoken ere
Eustace Dillon had gone whence the voice
emanated.

A few seemingly interminable moments
passed to those awaiting his return, gazing
perplexed and bewildered towards the
place where they had last seen him.

At length he reappeared, but not
alone ; at his side there walked a muffled
female form, whose features were carefully

concealed, attended by a fierce,
agile wolf-dog.

Passing through the ranks of their
silent watchful observers, these two
reached the confines of the churchyard,
when the stranger turned slowly, saying, —

^^ Here we separate; remember my
motive is centred in that one word —
gratitude ; and the night-token of your
people was my only resource. Be firm,
and we will succeed. Farewell."

'' Heaven grant it ! " echoed the young
man, and the next moment he was alone.

^' Once more," he cried, hastily returning
to the old abbey, " let the flash of
our death-signal brighten this desolate,
abhorred Waste ; now at least it is the
symbol of life, joy, and liberty."

*what does id all mayne, sir? who
is the lady ? " inquiringly reached him
as he clambered up the ruins.

^^It signifies the knell of despotism,
and the freedom of 0' Grady," exclaimed
Eustace Dillon, standing on the highest
point of the decayed edifice, '^ which, with
God's help, that woman will accomplish."

seamen, Amen!" ardently rose up
from those shadowy forms, and floated
far upon the still, torpid wind as the
night-star of the Waste was thrice waved
over their lowly heads.

Chapter IV.

Within his gloomy prison vault 0' Grady
passed the few days remaining before his
execution in a quiet, resigned state of
calm, silent dejection, but not of despair.
None of his friends dared to call upon one
whose tainted name would hereafter be
employed to their own destruction ; and
with the knowledge that his mother was
dead, and that his father had sold the
paternal property and gone abroad, all
thought of the external world would seem
to have been abandoned, as alone he
endured life, little caring how soon it
should cease, expiated on the gallows.

Sometimes, though, he grew animated
with the thought and even hope of escape,
but these fitful gleams of uncertain joy
fled when surveying the strength of those
massive walls closely encompassing him,
and doubly dispirited he relapsed again
into melancholy. Preserving the same reticent
exterior, the officials who attended
him failed to guess even approximately at
what was passing within the mind of
that proud man, the sad, painful mission,
of the superior officer to apprise him that
on the morrow at daybreak he should be
hanged failing to elicit any symptom of
feeling, except the commonplace " Thank
you, sir." Indeed, of the two the one
most embarrassed was the representative
of the law retreating from before that
calm, self-reliant glance.

As day began to draw to its close,
O'O'Grady threw himself on the mattress,

and, actuated by the knowledge of its
being his last night, his mind slowly
traversed the past, and grew tranquil in
its train of wakened recollections by the
repose that sorrow casts around every

joy-denser
grew the mantle of night upon

the silent face of nature, and heavier
became the deep-drawn sleep into which
the prisoner's harmonious thoughts had
lulled him. How long this spell of happy
oblivion continued he knew not, but at
length he leaped up, startled by the outside
heavy bolt on the door of the cell being
roughly shot back into its socket, whereupon,
without saying one word, the jailer
ushered in a stout, middle-sized gentleman,
wearing spectacles, and retired, leaving
the prisoner wondering, through his half-sleeping
eyes, at what was passing before
him. During the pause which ensued,

0' Grady placed his only chair at the
disposal of the stranger with a polite
bow, saying at the same time, —

^' May I inquire whom I have the pleasure
of addressing, and under what circumstances
this visit is conferred upon me ? "

The visitor took possession of the
lonely seat, and casting his eye upon the
mean, wretched habitation, exclaimed involuntarily,
'^ What a dreadful place 1 " —
Afterwards, resting his face in his hands,
he reclined thoughtfully against the back
of the chair, while both were silent.

The continued suspense became painful
to the condemned man, who observed, —

'you must have forgotten my inquiry
as to the object of your coming."

A light, thin voice proceeded from the
stout person, who, unmindful of the
question, soliloquized, —

'rit is his last night ! "

VOL. n. 5

^' It is ! " was echoed by the conjecturing
prisoner.

*^ And this is an awful place ! "

'* It is an awful place ! *' followed with
a bitter smile.

'' To-morrow he is to be hanged,"
continued the fat individual.

'' To-morrow I am to be hanged'* the
listener responded.

'sit shall not be! You will not be
hanged!" exclaimed the rotund personage,
leaping to his feet.

As these words burst upon the condemned
rebel, he rose, moving towards
his unknown visitor, and inquired, —

'^ Who are you, sir ? ''

'^ That I cannot yet tell you," was the
quiet reply.

'impossible! Could you refuse me
the name of my would-be deliverer?"

"I will be your deliverer; but my

name must be withheld until you are
free, then all shall be revealed."

^^ It is strange ! " observed the prisoner,
his eye, in mute surprise, fixed on that
fat man.

'sit is strange, sir; and it will be
stranger yet when you learn who I am
but let us proceed "

'^ Are you aware of the extent of the
prison, and of its being closely guarded on
all sides ? " 0' Grady anxiously inquired.

*^ Dismiss your doubts, sir. I know all
that is necessary for your purpose."

*' What of your own, pray ? Do you
run no risk in seeking to liberate me ? "

*' That I have reduced to its lowest
possible sum. All depends on your own
resolution ; tell me forthwith, are you prepared
to make the attempt this moment ? "

*^ Ay, prepared for anything ! " and he
put forth his mighty arms with a suddenness

of alacrity and power, hitherto un-thoughts
by the questioner, making the
latter recoil backwards, and reveal his
white teeth, with a look of partial alarm.

The prisoner's face lit up with a hopeful
glow as he passionately proceeded, —

'' Whoever you are, place me in the
path of freedom ; and though fifty barred
the way, armed to the teeth, I will rush
headlong to my fate."

Such men as you, Mr. 0' Grady, are
born to lead, and woe will overtake those
who have dared to abase themselves ; but
I would fain ask when free — as you shall
be — will your revenge be visited upon
those betrayers ? "

^' It is hard," was answered in a plaintive
voice, '^ to forego every vestige of just
retribution and bmy our manhood when
the false one at last appears, for whom we
have hungered in the hour of misfortune,"

and the speaker sank upon the mattress,
while the pleader came closer, agitated
in look and voice, saying, —

The lion is noble-hearted, and contemn
littleness "

^* The lion resents treachery'* O'O'Grady
sharply answered.

*^ Never at the sacrifice of magnanimity,"
was rapidly and firmly rejoined.

The condemned man was now greatly
moved, and casting himself on his knees
looked upwards fervently, his eyes becoming
moist with tenderness, while
slowly uttering, —

'' If thou, great Heaven, deign to be
merciful in my plenitude of sorrow, will I
not best attest my gratitude therefor by
emulating this clemency, however feebly?"

^^ Then I am content and expect no
more, only in the days to come forget
not what you but now said."

The prisoner bent his head affirmatively,
while the stranger drew forth some articles
of peculiar attire, thereby considerably
lessening his bulky dimensions, handing
them to the convict.

^' This suit," he continued, '* will effectually
conceal you. Remember the guard
is largely augmented, and the first gun
fired will be the signal of detection, if you
are not already outside the prison before
the shot is heard." Looking at his watch,
the speaker proceeded, —

'' In five minutes more the jailer must return
; throw on this disguise, and be ready.
I will engage him in conversation until you
come behind, gag and secure him ; then I
shall retire as I came, to have a rope-ladder
cast over the outer wall. After my departure,
go noiselessly to the door of the
guard-room, and jump suddenly into the
midst of the soldiers, who will be frightened.

and escape along the way whereby yon
entered, their only outlet ; secure the bolt,
so that they cannot regain their guns, while
you hasten into the exercise-yard, and up
the ladder. When descending therefrom on
the outer side of the prison wall, a gentleman
will be in waiting to conduct you
in a boat to the bridge, where a trusted
horse stands ready to bear you away."

The felon listened eagerly throughout
these succinct directions, at the termination
thereof eagerly exclaiming, ^^ In
Heaven's name do not deny me the right
to learn who my deliverer is ? "

^' When in the saddle, my confidant who
will have guided you thither will give you
a letter explaining all ; and now, sir, farewell
1 It s improbable we can ever meet
again in this world."

** Oh, this is amazing, why seek to debar
me from knowing your name ? "

*' Quick," the stranger said, '' I hear the
jailer's returning steps, good-bye," — his
voice grew thick — " remember my last
words, Mr. O'O'Grady : be merciful, even as
you have promised to Heaven and me."

Hurriedly completing his anomalous
attire the rebel concealed himself as the
officer entered, then immediately overpowered
and gagged him, stifling every
attempted word or sound of resistance.

*^ Farewell," was now softly spoken by
the rebel and his unknown benefactor in
eloquence of look and gesture impossible
to portray. Thus ended that mysterious
meeting.

As the sound of the stranger's departing
footfalls ceased, O'O'Grady carefully approached
the half-open door at the end of
the passage, wherefrom loud laughter and
mirth proceeded, and in another seconda
huge bear — this being the form of disguise

assumed by the prisoner — rolled in
among the soldiers, hugging them in its
mighty embrace, posing in attitudes of
violence, and bearing everything and
every one unresisting before it. The
frightened, maddened soldiers would have
faced death in any other conceivable form,
but the unexpected Bruin proved all-powerful.
His captives fighting amongst
themselves, and shrieking aloud, escaped
through the jammed doorway, and woo
betide the last contingent as the ambling
bear increased his hugging caresses.

When all had fled into the outer passage,
the rebel swiftly shot the bolt of the iron
door, and throwing off his disguise, made
for the appointed place, where, finding the
promised rope, he nimbly crossed the high
wall, and safely descended on the other side.
Everything progressed auspiciously, the
gentleman he was advised of being in

waiting to conduct him to the small boat,
which was rapidly impelled towards the
bridge. Here securing it, they jumped
to the bank, where, standing in the shade
of the wide granite arch, were two fleet
horses, ready saddled and bridled.

'' Quick, take this one, and come with
me," said the strange pioneer, leading
the second quadruped up the bank, the
fugitive following, at the summit whereof
they mounted their respective steeds.

'' Seek the Wicklow hills, Mr. O'O'Grady,
here is a letter from your deliverer, pistols,
ammunition, and, and ' ' — hesitating —
^^your rescuer entreats you to accept
this gold."

'' Sully not a glorious deed by those
hateful words," exclaimed the freed
patriot, as he put forth his hand and
fraternally grasped that of his companion,
adding, —

I solemnly conjure you to tell me the
name of my life's benefactor, that my
gratitude may be no longer withheld."

You will find it in the letter I gave
you."

Oh, spare me this torturing suspense,
I beseech you," O'O'Grady warmly pleaded.

' The Hcime is ' ' began the equestrian,

but the alarm-guns from the prison burst
forth on the instant, and the affrighted
horses furiously dashed forward in opposite
directions.

CHAPTEK V.

One fine bright sunny morning, many of
the good citizens of the fair city of Paris,
when killing time upon the Boulevard des
Italiens, were surprised to see a tall, erect,
silver-haired man, decently clad, standing
hat in hand, with a clean pasteboard card
stuck on his pale, furrowed forehead. Unmoved
and unabashed, the stranger tenaciously
held his ground for several hours
his earnest mien and resigned look
annihilating the ready jest d' esprit in
which the French excel.

'que dit-il?"

"Qui cherchez-vous ? "

^^ Que voulez-vous dire ? "

^' Parlez-vous Francis, Allemand, Espagnol,
ou Italien ? "

'' Que demandez-vous ? "

'' Que puis-je faire pour votre service,
monsieur? "

The foregoing remarks were ventured
upon by one coterie of the puzzledParisians,
but leading to no practical results, these
made room for others equally astonished,
at the unwonted problem. ^

Impenetrably stolid, the grave old man
neither winced nor moved, while his observers
drew near, looked at the white
card, then at him, and, baffled in the
attempt to understand either, finally went
away.

When any one addressed him, the uncovered
stranger attentively listened for some
word intelligible to his ears, failing which
he again relapsed into his former attitude.

The prevailing feeling of amazement was
fast developing into one of apprehension
among the concerned lookers on — when a
party of workmen, in the conventional blue
blouse and jaunty calotte, drew near,
attracted by the rare spectacle. They, like
their many predecessors, went closer to the
pasteboard, and retiring interested in what
they could not understand, one of them
said aloud to his companions in a pronounced
English accent, —

*^ I can't make it out, there's the name
of a baronet on that visiting card."

He had hardly uttered these words ere
the panic-stricken crowd were violently
thrust aside by the old man plunging towards
the speaker, who, dismayed, found
himself held tightly in a vice-like grip,
while with tears coursing down his cheeks,
the stranger shouted exuberantly, "Oh,
may the blessing' av God be an ye ; sure

haven't ye saved me life, I cudn't hav
stood id much longer, among a lot av
devils who don't know wan dancing word
at all at all, oh dear ! oh dear ! "

The throng looked on in troubled wonderment,
while the Englishman, soon
recovering his composure, inquired, —

^* What is the meaning of that cardon
your forehead ? "

'* 'Tis a public notice, me friend."

** The people don't understand it."

No," was replied with energy, ^' 
they're not sufficiently indicated."

The questioner laughed as he proceeded,
— '^ The name reads Sir Mervyn
Mervyn, Bart., Paris; but who is this
Sir Mervyn Mervyn ? "

"A rays gentleman, wan av the good
sort ; an' place God whin I clap me eyes
an him, he'll be after coin' me justice;
'tis all I want."

^* I see then your object is to find out
this baronet," observed his questor with
a relieved look.

Sure the cardtould as much, only they
can't shake dancing like, much less rade.
Oh," added the earnest old man, " avthey
had Billy 'Tools, our learned schoolmaster,
for has a year, wouldn't he instruct the
whole French nayshun ; an," as he bitterly
regarded the staring crowd, ^' civil a much
good ye '11 do till I git back an' sind him
over to save yer souls an' bodies."

Seeing that their innocent French observers
began gesticulating somewhat wildly,
the Englishman good-naturedly separated
from his fellow-mechanics, leading the old
stranger away, while he inquired, —

'^ How long have you been there ? "

'^ Where, me friend ? "

** Where I met you."

'^ Too long to count ; bud anyhow I'll

hav a reckon' for Sir Marvyn about his
blackguard agent, who threw me here."

*' Ah," observed his conductor, continuing
their conversation, ^' I suppose your
business has something to do with land in
Ireland of which this baronet is owner ? "

Devil a truer word ever ye spoke."

The amazed Saxon laughed outright,
adding, —

"I am bringing you where we will easily
ascertain if the baronet is now in Paris."

'* Wherever he is I '11 found him," was
energetically replied, " av it wor in Tim-cuckoo."


"You expect him to settle this same
business in your interest, I suppose ? "

** Av I didn't d'ye think I'd put an me
Sunday clothes wit a few * tinpinny '
pieces in me breeches pocket, an' foot
id every yard av the way from Dublin
to where we now stand?"

VOL. II. 6

'' Is this possible ? "

'''Tis as martin', as I hope for success
from Sir Marvyn Marvyn, I walked every
inch av the way, except whin the boat
wudn't let me."

<^ Why, you don't speak French."

** What man of sense wud ? Yet I
know enos av their larnin' now to do a
lifetime ; an' whin I go back, place God,
me litters to Sam Lowly's newspaper,
called the Thirty Boy, 'ill be the making
av its fortin an' mine."

Suppressing his amusement, the interested
auditor resumed inquiringly, —

*your journey through England was
feasible enough, but what I cannot understand
is your march from the coast
to Paris, a distance of over two hundred
miles."

The same power above that tempers
the blake winds to the shorn lamb 'ill

support every man, av his cause is honest;
finding' I cudn't git a taste av justice
from Mister Arkwright the agent, I
shore I'd they for id from his master,
an' mind ye, me friend, I'll succeed."

That elevated tone of voice bespoke an
imperious resolve, but if there could exist
a Hungering doubt within the breast of his
listener it was suddenly swept away by
that echoing, square, broad, nailed brogue,
which with ruthless determination the old
man raised and whacked upon the ground.
One strong, fervid shake of that wide
bony hand was the Saxon's offering on
the shrine of natural rectitude, and the
Englishman sincerely hoped he would
conquer.

The hearty white-crested Hibernian was
conducted by his guide to the Bureau des
Strangers, where it became speedily discovered
that Sir Mervyn Mervyn was a

very wealthy unmarried English baronet,
living in opulence and splendour at the
Rue St. Thomas du Louvre.

An account of the pedestrian's unusual
journey from Ireland soon oozed out, when
he became the hero of the hour, being
lionized and treated to the good things
of life, besides several pecuniary acknowledgments
of deeper intrinsic value.

His companion, too, was warmly commended,
and after many assurances of
regard the pair went forth in quest of
the landlord, who happened to be at
home. The Irishman opened wide his
mouth, and protruded his tongue, while
the guide conversed with the Suisse,
having, however, the discretion to keep
silent, although the glances thrown at
him by the Gallic concierge made him
itch sorely at the tips of his fingers, ashe
afterwards said.

Look here, me friend," were his words
crossing the courtyard. *' The blast av a
calf or the square av a bonnet is natural
musick, bud to see two sober min, who
ought to hav' sence, making' fools av their
mouths, is wars nor an attack av distemper
or the prate blight, God preserve
us from aether."

Without any difficulty they were ushered
into the presence of the baronet, a good-natured
generous-looking young man of
some three or four and twenty years, who
agreeably saluted them, saying, —

'' Be seated."

*^ Who d'ye mayne, sir? "the traveller interrogated
— scratching his snowy fore-lock.

** Yourself and "

*^ That's notmenayme,yer honour," was
interrupted. 'i'm plain Dominick Sullivan
from Dangan Farm, an the estate
av Sir Marvyn Marvyn at Artane, near

Dublin, Ireland, across the father, an' av
ye be that nobleman, me respects to yer
honour's lordship."

The speaker made an awkward effort
at cm-trying, while along with the guide
he still remained standing.

** I am Sir Mervyn Mervyn," was pleasantly
answered, ^^ and I wish you both
to be seated."

'' Thank ye. Sir Marvyn, there's no
refusing' that," replied the old man, putting
his hat on the rich carpet, when with his
coat tail he well dusted the equally soft
chair before sitting on it.

The host in suave tones now inquired,
—

^' What is the nature of your business
with me ? "

*^ I hav a claim upon ye. Sir Marvyn."

"What, a claim? I have never seen
you before," was carelessly rejoined.

*^ Thin the granter the shame to acknowledge
id," — the voice of the strange
stranger was well balanced and determined.

*' Come, my man, there's some mistake
here ; this will not do," observed the
landlord a little haughtily.

'* There's a mistake, an* id won't do,
abler," the former energetically echoed.

The tentative Englishman ventured on
a remonstrance, saying, *'I think, Sir
Mervyn, you do not know that this age
man is one of your tenants, and that he
positively walked every foot of the road
between this place and Dublin to obtain
judice ; will you not be disposed to grant
hin favourable consideration?"

^' It is impossible," exclaimed the
baronet, starting up with an air of
astonishment.

The late speaker continued in grave
ones, ^' I met him on the Boulevard des

Italiens three hours ago, surrounded by a
wondering crowd, who did not understand
him, and only that I read your name on a
card he had pasted to his forehead, and
brought him here, he might have been
found in the morgue

*' Sir Marvyn Marvyn," now began the
object of such interest, '^ six weeks agon
I thrusted me wife an child to the marcy
av God," in a very low, sympathetic voice,
'* starting' to ax me landlord for a simple
act av honesty. From that hour to this
I've never known a bed to lye an, or, savin'
yer prince, takin aff me ould brogues."

To look from that softened, wrinkled
face to those tanned boots and back again
was the work of a moment ; at the next
the baronet stood beside his tenant, aid
cordially holding out his hand, said, — 1

'' My brave old man, whatever you wait
from me shall be granted, but let me kno

why you undertook such an unwise course,
imperilling even life in this unheard-of
way ? "

Respectfully declining the proffered
tribute, the traveller said, " No, no, Sir
Marvyn ; I've never yit forgot me proper
plaice, an' never shall av I can help id,
thank yer lordship all the same."

The host good-humouredly proceeded,
** I will not molest your scruples, but
briefly explain, what is wanted of me, and
why you did not apply to my agent, instead
of undertaking such a cruel, unnecessary
journey ? "

^^Ah! Sir Marvyn," he responded
with vehemence, *^ 'tis yer honour's agent,
Mightier Arkwright, as has caused all
me trouble. Ye "

*' Tut, tut; you must be mistaken,"
was imperiously vociferated.

^' In troth I'm not, yer honour ! Fist

kindly look here ; for the past nine years
Mister Arkwright riz the rent regularly,
as ye can see from these eighteen haft
reacts. Av course id wor a hardship,
hut I stood id working' an, improving'
the little plaice, till it ken whin I cudn't
continued ; an' bekayze I remonstrated a
trifle he got into a antrim, an' served
me wit this notice to quit."

^' If true, it is rascally conduct," exclaimed
the baronet, " of which I know
nothing, nor am I aware that the rents
have in any way varied from what they
were when I inherited the estate."

^' Ah, sir : what a weight ye lift aff me
mind, an' won't me poor wife be happy an'
contint ; for, d'ye see. Sir Marvyn, I'd go
an for ever pain' me last pinny av ye wish,
only, for the love av heaven, don't turn
us out av the home, where me chiltern wor
born, an' mesel' an' me fathers afore me."

The guide was much moved to witness
the tearful agitation of the old man ; drop
succeeding drop being brushed aside by
those thin, sinuous fingers, while the occasional
deep sobs, their meet accompaniment,
caused his whole frame to tremble
throughout.

The young landlord paced the room ina
furious mood, thinking of the trusted
Ark Wright ; at length thundering aloud,
perish these agents, they are the curse
of Ireland! "

^^ Oh, me stars ! " exclaimed his tenant,
jumping up gleefully; 'didn't I always
say Sir Marvyn Marvyn wor an English
nobleman, an' av I want seed him
he'd do me justice."

^' I'm not a nobleman — that will do " —
repressing him, ^'you shall have justice."
Touching the bell the servant appeared, to
whom the baronet said, " Take these two

worthy men in your care, see that they
receive everything necessary to their comfort
; " addressing the guide, '' Do you know
Paris well ? "

^'I do, Sir Mervin'*

** Then I wish you to show your companion
all its sights for a fortnight. If
you cannot share his hed, at least come
and take him out each day. There is a
cheque towards your expenses, and call
on me for another." Turning to the old
man he inquired, ^^ You will not decline to
shake hands now ? " adding, '^ be content,
my worthy friend, I will place you and
yours beyond the reach of evil from anyone,
go now to your merited repose."

As the traveller almost tottered from
the room with overwhelming emotion, he
paused, saying apprehensively, ^* Oh, what
will Mister Arkwright do whin he gits
me home ? "

^' Fear nothing, you will not be alone."
'' Why so, Sir Marvyn ? "
^^ Because you have made me alive to
my duty, and I shall go to Ireland also."

CHAPTEK VI.

It was a fair bright day when the proud
young Lucy Neville, of Nevillstown, surrendered
her future life into the tender
guidance of the manly, intrepid heir of
Harcourt.

The marriage had been solemnized in
the quietest manner, in accordance with
the wish of Lucy, now the Honourable
Mrs. Vincent Harcourt, her husband, on
the advice of their mutual friend Eustace
Dillon, likewise preferring privacy.

^* It will only alienate your father still
more," he urged, without the necessity for
so doing or any concomitant advantage."

None knew what it cost Eustace to look
on passively while the only hope or incentive
in his life was being united to
another — gone — gone — for ever ; — but if
there was one, after himself, worthy of,
and who would live for her alone — surely,
he thought, it could only be Vincent
Harcourt.

At last he grew almost Platonic in regarding
his circumstances. ^' She could
never be mine," musing, *^ why then wish
to see her apart from another deserving
of her ? " But despite this theorizing, he
could not resist sorrowfully thinking,
*' Lucy Neville is lost to me for ever."

Vincent and he were the firmest of
friends, the former with true innate
honesty seldom hesitating to reveal his inmost
self to Eustace, little divining the
pangs his listener endured at the one recurring
topic — Lucy, and nothing but Lucy.

The heir of Harcourt had had no communication
whatever with his noble father
since their last unhappy interview, and he
tried to put aside all thought of his future
rank, sooner than encourage the bitter feeling
inseparable from its consideration. Previous
to his marriage he wrote to Lord
Harcourt, apprising him of it and soliciting
the parental sanction, failing which he
would go abroad with his wife and live in
seclusion until their accession to the property,
when they would return and settle
at Harcourt, but no answer was accorded,
and henceforth the breach became irreparably
confirmed. Her husband, however,
did not inform Lucy of this family
disruption, under all circumstances, preferring
to represent his parent as too
infirm and prejudiced to be consulted for
the present at all events. She was one
who baulked not where others stood

still, and the advent of Eustace Dillon,
extolling his friend, sealed her fate.

When alone, Lucy cast herself on the
couch, exclaiming, ^^ Oh, I am so very,
very happy, may I prove worthy of his
love, for, darling Yincent, you will never
know the joy I could not avow of being
called thine for ever : " and finding it impossible
to resist longer, she rested her
head upon those pale, pointed fingers,
abandoning herself to the luxury of tears. '
Fast they traced their saline channels
upon her calm marbled face, becoming the
soothing valve for too much happiness,
tranquillizing and softening her dream of
life ; but little she knew how soon this
fleet, transparent tide of the beautiful
imagery of an innocent first love would be
diverted from its sunny course to plough
through the deep cold rugged whirlpool
of this world's misery and affliction.

VOL. II. 7

The church in which the nuptial rites
were celebrated was that of St. Doulough's,
supposed to be the oldest stone-roofed
sacred edifice now in use in Ireland.

There was an utter absence of the pomp
and parade usually attending such ceremonies,
and but for the clergyman, one
bridesmaid, Eustace Dillon, and the two
chief actors in this most momentous scene,
the world would appear to know or care
naught for those occupants of a seat in
the chancel of that ancient, well-preserved
church.

No pawing horses fretted away their
useless time, idly champing well polished
angular bits.

There was none of that endless display
attendant upon the great in this little
world. No, they all came to the church
together.

The bride was calm, in harmony with

her grave, quiet costume, while Vincent
looked joyous, unmindful of all hut
Lucy.

Eustace Dillon stood motionless in face
and figure ; he wished to see these two
dear ones united, yet each word of the
officiating clergyman and the answers that
these words engendered smote like a consuming
flame upon his heart.

At last the sacred ceremony is ovei^
henceforth and for ever they are indissolubly
linked, to march through life, whether
in joy or sorrow, as one and only one.

The small group now assemble in the
vestry, there formally to record their signatures
in attestation of the marriage.

The celebrant handed Mrs. Harcourt a
chair, and her husband having signed the
register, Eustace Dillon next inscribed his
name therein, having scarcely finished, ere
Lucy's voice transfixed him — screaming,

'^ Oh ! great heaven forbid, spare him,"
and she sank lifeless on the floor.

Vincent entreated in agonized accents,
*' My daring, what can have happened ?
look up, Lucy, my love; it is nothing; look
at me, speak to me," tenderly chafing her
temples, mitil gradually she manifested
symptoms of returning consciousness.

Her first action on recovering from the
fainting fit was to gaze hurriedly and
searchingly around the vestry ; then she
said softly in acknowledgment of his
obviously anxious solicitude, ''I will be
better in a moment, Vincent, thank you,
but call Eustace."

The latter still stood unmoved beside
the writing-desk, pen in hand, with eyes
rigidly fixed upwards, as when she had
last seen him before swooning.

Vincent Harcourt shook his torpid
friend lustily, saying, 'lucy wishes to

speak to you," whereupon the former
apathetically resigned the pen, and walked
leisurely towards her; the clergyman, who
had considerately retired, now came forward,
wondering as he heard the Honourable
Mrs. Harcourt inquire, —

^' You saw them, Eustace ? "

^^Yes."

^* Three?"

*eyes, three."

** Did they alter positions ? " *

'' They did."

'' Tell me how."

"• They changed places respectively."

** Anything more ? "

u There is, but I — I " hesitating.

^' Do not conceal anything from me,
Eustace," she pleaded.

'' They flew thrice around before leaving,
Lucy."

'^ Then we are all included," was echoed

sadly, *but answer me," and she looked
up hopefully, ^^did they fly away together
? "

*alas, no, they went slowly one by
one."

*ein mercy, spare us," was wailed;
the danger is at hand."

*^ Lucy, my life, do not madden me
with this prolonged torture," exclaimed
her husband.

*^ Ah, Vincent," she answered wearily,
I have brought desolation upon you
already."

*^ Great heavens," he interrupted,
^' speak of anything, that I may see or
brave it for your sake."

^^ It is vain, dearest," she continued,
'* my dread comes nofc from this world,
but from the world beyond."

'' Lucy, you but jest," was hastily
rejoined.

** Vincent Harcourt, hearken to your
wife and weigh her words, for too well
I know their significance," interposed
their mutual friend, in grave, sepulchral
accents.

Lucy proceeded, *^ A black gull has
always been the forerunner of death or
evil to one of my family. Lately, in presence
of Eustace, two appeared, and but
now, as that register was being signed, I
saw three of these birds, so ominous of the*
future, settle over you, Vincent, Eustace,
and myself, when I fainted."

*^ It is some creation of your fancy,
dear madam," urged the clergyman, seeking
to allay her obvious apprehensions.

*' Sir, I myself watched their entrance
and exit," interrupted Eustace Dillon, intones
rebuking the implied doubt.

ii Why, there is Fanny Chalmers at the
window" exclaimed the young wife in

excitement pointing thereto, but they
could observe no one.

Nevertheless, Lucy was convinced that
she had seen Fanny gleefully and maliciously
regarding them, and those revengeful
words spoken at their last
meeting returned anew in all their harrowing
intensity, scattering like chaff
before the wind every semblance of hope
within her.

^' I will go, dear Vincent," she said at
last, calmly, ^* but all your reasoning
cannot alter my conviction. No, I pray
heaven to help you, my darling husband,
and you, Eustace, to meet with fortitude
the calamity at hand, unknown in form,
yet certain in its accomplishment''

Gratefully acknowledging the fervid
good wishes freely bestowed upon them
by the benevolent pastor, they now
emerged from the venerable church, and

arm in arm slowly wended their way
down the small ill-planted avenue.

Under apprehensions thus painfully
aroused, Lord Harcourt's son had to
help his wife along, but gradually the air
and quiet restored her fortitude. When
they reached the outer gate, then indeed
her heart fell, and her breath came and
went in quick succession, as a stranger suddenly
presented himself, inquiring, ^^ You
are the Honourable Vincent Harcourt"'

'' I am''

^' And you, sir, Mr. Eustace Dillon ? "

eyes."

^' Then, gentlemen, I arrest you both
in the king's name for high treason,"
and on a given signal a dozen soldiers
rapidly closed around the captives, Lucy
Harcourt again falling lifeless into her
husband's arms.

CHAPTEK VII.

'*Ha, ha, that's the finishing touch,"
said Robert Arkwright, casting an official
letter upon the table towards his visitors,
Dorrington Harcourt and Brien Flynn,
and adding, ^^ the scent is run close home
now, and whenever you wish those two
estimable people, Messieurs Vincent Dare-court
and Eustace Dillon, shall be at your
service and command."

The Harcourt agent's face lit up' with
a pleased vulgar grin of satisfaction,
whereas Dorrington seemed somewhat
listless and inert.

The compact, Mr. Harcourt, between

US," continued Arkwright, facing towards
the subject of his remarks, 'sis that you
guarantee the attendance of the Outlaw,
0' Grady, at Malahide Fair, for the purpose
of handing him over to justice, on condition
that I procure the arrest of Vincent
Harcourt and Eustace Dillon for treasonable
practices, you now being the accepted
heir of Lord Harcourt, in preference to
your cousin, discarded for his unworthy
habits and associations."

^' All that you have now represented,
sir, I am readily prepared to endorse, the
negotiation being already concluded between
us by my uncle's agent, Flynn."

*' Fist so. I'm always glad to see
business completed in this ruddy sort
av a way," interposed their mutual ambassador
blithely.

^* Mr. Harcourt, there is the written
authority from the Castle to have the

arrest carried out ; you can hold it for
enforcement at pleasure."

Thank you, Mr. Arkwright," answered
Dorrington, accepting the official mandate.
^^ Flynn wishes the arrest to be made when
the marriage ceremony is just concluded,
while I incline to preventing their nuptials
altogether. What do you advise ? "

Ton my word it is hard to decide;
of course, the downfall will be greater
after the wedding than before," replied
Sir Mervyn Mervyn's agent.

"But if unnecessary to om design, why
inflict this additional blow ? "

Gentleman, listen to me a minnie —
Miss Chalmers "

I forbid the introduction of that lady's
name," was peremptorily asserted.

Be id as ye say, Mister Dorrington,"
rejoined Flynn unabashed ; '' bud the
person to put 0' Grady's thraysinable

litters in Mister Dillon's pockets ses
the time to do id is before going' to chiircli,
as he won't be seen again till he's an his
thryal."

^' This does not apply to my cousin."

*' Id does, Mister Dorrington; ye see
what hangs wan '11 kill t'other."

Quite my way of thinking," interrupted
Arkwright placidly.

*' I still incline to my own opinion on
the point," was iterated by Dorrington*
Dare court.

'' Kim no idle risks, sir," observed
Flynn measuredly. ^* Whin me lord
hears av the arrest he might soften like,
bud the marriage wit Miss Neville *11
thrive thin farther away thin ever."

^' Of course it will," echoed his brother
in office.

*' In that light, I fear, there's no alternative,
yet I am sorry for it." There

was a tone of real regret in Lord Dare-court's
nephew's voice.

^' 'Tis wise to bow to circumstances,
sir; at leastways sometimes."

'^ So it appears."

**Do ye know whin the marriage takes
plaice, Mister Dorrington ? "

*^ Yes, Flynn ; the day after tomorrow.' '

*' Just in good time to give word to
the authorities and have the arrest skilfully
effected," exclaimed Arkwright
suggestively.

Id wor very lucky Mister Vincent
cudn't hould his tongue, av he did we'd
never know till id wor all over, an' the
lot gon' abroad," observed Brien Fljnin
with a coarse laugh.

'^ How is that ? " inquired the former.

Ye see they manage their pints so
well at Nevillstown, sure civil a wan
know'd a thing about id till Mister Vincent

wrote ain' his father, me lord, to
make id up an' giv his consent ; but I
needn't tell ye the litters never pass'd
me own honest hands — ha, ha ! "

** That was wisdom to a certainty."

** Silence on both sides must embitter
the situation."

*' Which Ifoundout long ago, "responded
Flynn ; adding, *' Sarah a litter has
rayoh'd aether av their hands since I had
the luck to meet Mister Dorrington here."

show do you prevent Dillon from
receiving his friends' communications ? "
inquired Sir Mervyn Mervyn's representative.


*' Aizey enos ; money gits me the first
peep at the post-bag, an' been' too honest
to doubt, av course all I want I take."

'' Could they not inquire of the postboy?"


*' They did; bud money again carried

the day, the big He the gossoon would
thin been' already hatched an' pet for —
ha, ha, ha ! "

Arkwright joined in the mirth following
this specious announcement, while
Dorrington Darecom't, apparently interested
and amused, thought the while,
*' Here are two agents of large properties,
the owners whereof must be guilty fools,
otherwise, how can such ready reckoning
in fraud be daily demonstrated to the
ruin of those hapless tenants sacrificed
between the landlord's unjust indolence
and the middle-man's double greed,
which the gross neglect of the former
creates and licenses?" Gradually the
subject veered around to 0' Grady.

'' You think he is in the vicinity,
Mr. Harcourt?" continued Arkwright.

''If meeting and talking to him at
Wentworth Waste, besides receiving his

letters for this Dillon, is not evidence
of an existence, I do not know what
else can be."

'' Undoubtedly," observed the questioner
proceeding, " you have one more
appointment with him prior to the
Malahide Fair?"

*' Yes, that is so."

^^ When will you concert with us the
plans for his capture ? "

*' Pardon me, my undertaking is to
have him at the Fair, that is all ; the
rest being in your hands entirely."

'^ Thank you, that will suffice, Mr. Dare-court.
This time he shall not evade the
gallows. I will have two score of picked
men for the arrest and a whole regiment,
if need be, to march him to Dublin. The
little so-called lock-up in the neighbourhood
could be broken open by the confederates
of any ordinary prisoner, much

VOL. II. 8

less one of such power and weight with
the peasantry as 0' Grady."

^' From my experience of him I think
he possesses a large, open-hearted, kindly
nature, roughened doubtless by deplorable
habits of living."

^' Tut, tut, Mr. Dorrington, one fact will
serve to illustrate the dogmatism of his
whole race. If you pass by the estate lately
belonging to the 0' Grady family you will
find modern brickwork set in the granite
wall adjoining the central entrance."

^^ What does this portend ? "

'' In a passion the grandfather of the
rebel turned his son out of doors, who
resented the expulsion to such a degree,
that on attaining the property he refused
to allow his deceased parent to be carried
for interment through the gates ; but instead
thereof, caused a hole to be made
in the wall, whereby the coffin was dragged

out. ^ The portal shut against me while
you lived he said, * shall, I swear, he
closed to you, even in death ! ' And
faithfully the vow was kept."

'' A sad instance of unnatural feeling
on both sides," was observed by his
pale listener, the succeeding pause being
broken by Flynn asking, —

*' Will ye cape out av the way a bit,
Mister Dorrington, while the arrest
takes plaice ? "

** Certainly, I will utilize the opportunity
for going on the yachting expedition
we spoke of, and which you so
strongly recommended."

^Bejabers ! that's the stroke as secures
victory," shouted the Harcourt agent,
bringing down his hand with a heavy blow
on the table, causing both his auditors to
jump to their feet, the unexpected violent
thud was so complete a surprise.

A general laugh followed, none enjoying
the diverting contre-temps more than its
author, who said, ''I share I can't understand
what possessed me to do id — ha, ha,
ha! " But Dorrington traced in its impulse
renewed evidence of Flynn's belief
in Miss Chalmers' powers of assistance in
their mutual undertaking. Emptying their
glasses, which had only once been filled
throughout the lengthened conference , they
prepared to set out on their return. Heavy
and black appeared the prospect leaving
that snug, warm, well-lit room, going into
the open air, where a dog-cart was in readiness,
and letting go the horse's head, away
they went, at a steady pace, along the
broad, unfrequented road in front.

^' I would still prefer that my cousin's
arrest took place before this intended marriages
is needless cruelty," observed
Dorrington, who in the pitchy night

could not see the white set teeth of his
companion while firmly answering, — -

** Whin id has to be don, strike home to
them, and be doubly sure. Where two tumbles
wan is martin to keep t'other down."

^^ Did Miss Neville ever harm you,
Flynn ? "

^^No, sir."

*' Nor my cousin ? " •

'not intrinsically ; bud he did, for
all that."

'' If unintentionally you cannot blame
him."

'blame him, sir," (lashing the horse,)
*' who ever strikes me, false or fair, I'd
hav me revenge ! ay, av I liv'd fifty years
'twould com at last, an' thin be weaken
all the more, having' to wait so long."

This does not augur well," thought
his auditor.

** Look ye, Mister Dorrington," continued

the agent, pulling np the horse
viciously and suddenly, '' don't be de-saved,
yer only chance is to hav' yer
cousin married, an' git him an' his wife
sint where they'll never be herd av again."

'^ Have you a motive for saying this,
Flynn ? "

*say, sir," was spoken fiercely, ^' d'ye
think I want to see all me hopes blasted,
an' what I help'd to bill up thrown down
about me ears ? No, sir," he added
vehemently, ^' I med id, an' I mayne to
thick to id."

'^ You surprise me by this unlooked-for
zeal, if not passion,"

** Am I to be blamed for presarvin' what
no wan helped me to found? Yis, sir, I
repast, 'tis time I look'd to mesel' whin I
see the chance av all me striven's shipping'
thro' me fingers, bekayze ye won't
follow up what we so well started."

''I do not object," was sharply answered.


^^ Three, ye don't say so in as many
words, bnd I'm for ever bringing' facts
afore ye, yit now ye seem as av 'tis again
yer grain to go any farther."

*^ Avoid these anticipations : I wished to
spare what I considered unnecessary pain,"
(the driver ground his white-edged teeth
anew;) however as it appears to be inevitable,
there is an end to my hesitations
it shall be as you suggest."

The horse was now going forward at a
settled pace, when its owner resumed in
calmer tones, —

*^ Mister Dorrington, let me tell ye
something' serious."

'' What is it ? "

^' That Lord Darecoort id be mighty glad
this minnie to hav Mister Vincent back,
ay, an' beg his forgiveness in the bargain."

"Is it possible? when did you hear
this, Flynn ? "

'* His lordship would me so himsel' this
morning', wit tears in his eyes, ' Oh,' sed
he, ' I know I won't liv long, an' I'm so
unhappy at the thought av me son been'
gon. I've wrong'd him, Brien,' he went
an, * so I hav no price av mind ; he won't
even reply to me litters.' Av course ye
know, Mister Dorrington, civil a litter
ever went, or ever will ; bud ye're herd
enos to make ye see 'tis right to git rid
av thin both."

"I'm much obliged to you, indeed;
forgive me for not sooner acquiescing in
what you advised." This was said in a
semi-penitential voice, which became
more confident while adding, " I wish
the marriage and arrest took place this
very moment, for clearly we are on the
brink of a precipice."

^* Three for ye, sir, bud only let him
put the wedding' ring an Miss Neville, thin
we can snap our fingers at thin all.
Halloa, halloa!" he shouted, 'what on
earth is this ? " swiftly pulling the horse
aside, while both looked eagerly forward.
Before them, coming straight along at a
tremendous speed, were a magnificent
pair of richly caparisoned bay horses, impelling
a state chariot, flooded with light,
and revealing the arms and quarterings •
of a nobleman, behind which stood two
powdered footmen, while the wigged, rotund
coachman sat immersed in a deeply draped
hammer-cloth. Almost simultaneously
with the dog-cart reaching the shelter
of the road-side, the phantom-like,
dazzling equipage shot past, an old man
being it sole occupant.

Grate heavens ! " screamed Brien
Flynn frantically, " 'tis Lord Harcourt;

we're lostli, av I don't stliop him," and
wheeling the horse round he lashed it
furiously onwards, pursuing that fast
disappearing maze of flying light.

Chapter VIII.

The landlord of the ^' Dareconrt Arms "
occupied his usual seat, and smoked his
black, grimy pipe, upon the night of the
day when Lucy Neville became a wife.

It was deemed politic by the powers
that be, to effect the arrest of Vincent
Harcourt and Eustace Dillon with as little
publicity as possible, and the prisoners
were installed in the dim, old-fashioned,
rickety structure, answering the purpose
of a local jail, without any resistance on
their part, or unnecessary parade by their
captors ; hence, although so close to the
village, not one therein knew of the

occurrence except the clergyman, who
was discreetly silent iij)on a subject causing
him much regret and concern.

Lucy Harcourt insisted on remaining
in the wretched room occupied by her
husband and their mutual friend, the
other half of the prison being used by the
soldiers, who only waited for darkness
to begin their return march to Dublin.
Unconscious of what was passing so near
to them, the flow of mirth and whisky was
up to the normal measure in all senses
at the Harcourt village.

The old familiar faces were present as
before, but there was one gap which could
not be filled up, the chair in the far corner
to the right of the landlord, with its back
fronting the door, as you entered.

Lord rest his sown, he wor a dancing
boy," being inwardly ejaculated by each
one of those who had been familiar with

the old soldier, Vincent Harcourt's body
servant.

Quick in temperament, and readily alive
to the keenest influences of emotion, the
average Irishman has already formed the
resolve to like or dislike with a celerity
only equalled by his desire to prove this
newborn conviction at any sacrifice.

Unconsciously, too, is this irrevocable
determination arrived at ; though it may
seem incredible, it is nevertheless true,
that they are seldom wrong in their estimate
of character.

The retiring, weather-beaten veteran,
who spoke so fondly of a once happy home,
while the agitation from within studded
his hazel eyes, won their sympathy at a
glance, but when it became known that
he was wifeless and childless, the personal
attendant on the young lord of Harcourt
forthwith occupied a sacred niche, deep

down in their hearts, that they would not
care to acknowledge openly for one allen
in race and religion. Yet they intuitively
knew it, and felt it was reflected
by each and all towards him.

On the authoritative announcement
that the old soldier had furlough from his
earthly quarters, joining the ranks of his
family in heaven, the chair was relegated
to its present position of honour, the
name of its well-remembered occupant
being held in undying veneration.

In the midst of this night's unselfish,
if superficial enjoyment, a very tall,
powerful man presented himself suddenly
at the door, and with voice excelling in
suavity and richness, inquired, " Good
people, may I come in ? "

'' Yis, sir, an' why not ? " was instantly
and mutually replied.

*^ Thank you, it is a very wild night, and

having to wait some little time, I thought,
if you had no objection, I would add one
to your number."

They at once divined that the stranger
standing hat in hand before them was a
gentleman, and as quickly did they respect
him.

'^ Yer honour's not beholden' to the
likes av us for company, but av we'd be
contint to spend an hour under me
humble bit av a roof yer weaken, sir, tb
stop as long as ye place," said the landlord,
rising from his chair with a
meek inclination of the head, speedily
echoed by a buzz of approval.

^^ Then I shall take advantage of your
hospitality," answered the unknown with
a bland smile, ^^ and I hope you will not
consider me, but do exactly as you would
were I not present."

Our old acquaintance Tom rose, impulsively,

saying, '^ Allow me, yer honour, to
put away yer overcoat, 'tis very wet."

*' No, thank you, I am used to the
weather," was carelessly responded.

'^ Ye unmannerly haythin," muttered the
Widow Flanagan, ^' how d'ye know the
gentleman has a second coat? mind yersel',
or I'll be after putting' a stopper an ye."

Every eye was now riveted on the
stranger, for he had turned around the
fated chair, and was quietly sitting in it,
unmindful of the looks centred upon him.

Calmly and composedly resting his chin
upon his hands, he looked dreamily into
the cheerful flame, but his keen observers
soon thought ''he doesn't seem cheerful
himsel," and unanimously they wished
he would stay in that seat, and draw it
still closer to the fire, comforting himself,
and banishing the heavy air of gloom
now surrounding him.

^^Arrah, what kep' ye, Cup-o'-Tay?"
kindly inquired the landlord, as that well-known
personage appeared, reeking with
wet, making his way leisurely into the
room, with a cheery ^* God save all here! "

I've just ordered a youthful," was the
reply, '' whin I get that inside ye'll hav the
information outside . Whew, what a night
id is," he added, brushing the perspiration
off his steaming forehead, and squeezing
the dripping rain from out his moist locks.*

'* Its not stormy is it, Cup-o'-Tay ? "
inquired his early antagonist and friend
Tom.

'^ No, Tom, not particularly stormy,
bud 'tis raisin' cats an' dogs, an' me
belief is 'twill ind in a gale ; ye seethe
sunrise wor virry red : — holloa ! ' ' and
he suddenly stopped — looking at that
massive figure in the revered chair.

A wink, however, from the proprietor

VOL. II. . 9

banished all hesitation, whereupon he
continued, " Ye know at an inquest in
the big City they stop every soul
pas sin' till they git twelve min for a
joory, an' 'tis no matter who or what
ye are, yer bound to go bekayze they'll
take no excuse."

That I've heard afore," nodded the
landlord.

"Thin," was resumed, "unbeknown, I
wor going' an me arrant, whin the watchman
at a corner av a lane, ses, ' Here,
mister, ye' re wanted for an inquest.' ' Oh,
jewel,' ses I nervously, ' ye don't mayne to
say as how any accident has occurred,'
feeling' from me big toe to the tips av me
fingers, thinking' something' had gon astray,
bud no, I wor safe and sound. ' 'Tis a
man found dead,' sed the watchman ; whin
I axed, ' Av he's dead, what d'ye want to
bring him to life again ? ' ' No,' ses he,

^ bird we want to know how he ken be his

death. ' ' I never heard, ' ses I, ' as how dead

min blather their saycrits, altho', mind yea

woman might, I'd be bound, av she wor

disposed ; ' however, the watchman proceeded,

' Ye '11 hav to become wan av

the joory; whin the doctor giv's evidence

ye' 11 decide an what ye're bin would.'

'^ ' Suppose the doctor tells lies,' ses

I, san' the corps deserves us as well, who'll

•
we turnto ? ' ^ The crowner, av course, he'll

advise ye what to do.' ' Bud the crowner

might be the biggest liar av the whole lot.'

^ Not likely, however, av ye don't behave

any wan, ye can ' ^ What ? ' I axed.

Appal to the joory,' sed the watchman.

Whin the joory might hav would more

lies,' I shouted, nor doctor an' crowner

put together.' ^ Can ye write ? ' he axed ina

hurry. ' I can, ' ses I. ' Thin git a piece

av cheyne paper, pin an' ink.' ' What for ? '

To put down yer honest opinion that, '
thin all to be liars, corps included,
ye spared their feeling, not tellin' the
tooth in publick this time, an condition
they'll mind in future ; ' just as we ken to
this settlement there wor a ruckshun in the
tippling house opposite. ' What's amiss ? ' I
axed : afore me labour cud budge any
reply, out ran a thief wit a bottle av
whisky in his hand, galloping' up the
street, the watchmen after him, bud they
cudn't git the robber, an' instit they lay'd
hands an the owner av the shop, in misnamed
head, chain' his property. ' Oh, Lord,'
the public kan bawled, 4s that fair, the villain
robs me, yit ye don't stop him, while I
look all for yer cursed inquest.' ' 'Tis the
law,' they said, and he marched without
another word, I foUowin'. In a few
linnets twelve av us wor sworn. We
leered a grate dale, bud upon me soul the

only wan I firmly behaved wor the deadman
himsel."

*why so?" interrogated the relict
Flanagan.

'* Bekayze the civil a sentence we cud
git hould av to contradict him in the
whole time."

^^ Bead, that's serious," she observed.

*^ He never spoke at all at all, though
bethany ourselves I think I see' d him now
an' thin pull his face a couple av yard
long, an' no wonder, for the lies wor
something' awful."

'what wor the okashun av his stiffness?"
inquired the proprietor.

''Bein' too lazy, the could got the
bitter av the hate in him."

But what med him so consaytid afore
his time ? "

Id appears he wor lift a thing they
call'd a leg-lessee."

*' Bearers, I see neither his arm nor
leg," observed Tom innocently.

'* Take good care or ye '11 feel both av
mine," retorted Cup-o'-Tay warmly.

Tell us the verdict ? " interposed the
concerned widow.

'' That same," answered the narrator,
'^ genus adayle av trouble, bekayze what
they call the leg-lessee wor in royalty
whips av money, an' poor craythure id
upset him, I mayne the drink did, the
verdict been' ^ death from natural disorder,'
though to this minnie I can't
understand why the leg-lessee wasn't
med responsible for the murther."

'rout in all this rain, Master Walther ?' '
were the surprised exclamations saluting
yet another visitor, a tall, genteel boy, now
standing in the room, who, smiling amid
ruddy blushes, handed a letter to the contemplative
stranger in that memorable chair.

This latter personage at once tore open
the document, which he read, crushed it in
his muscular left hand and cast it into the
flames, while starting up, firmly pressing a
soft hat upon his high intellectual forehead.
Every trace of dejection was banished, and
wonderingly his mute observers felt he was
one of the few who insensibly trample the
majority of their fellows under foot, passing
them by unheeded in life's race.

None attempted to utter a farewell
courtesy, much as they would like to
have done so, nor did he seem to mind
what was passing around, his heavy
brows being knit together with a preoccupied
determined stare.

a There are a dozen," he said, addressing
the juvenile messenger.

^' Yes, sir."

^' And the leader?"

'' Yes, sir."

Beaching the threshold of the door,
while tightening the collar of his coat,
he turned round, exclaiming in sententious
accents, *' I'm going on a mission of
danger, what two of you will share it ? "

^* We don't know yer honour," timidly
ventured the landlord.

The stranger elevated his eyes and
smiled sarcastically, observing, "I am a
friend of Mr. Eustace Dillon, and he is
in peril : will that satisfy you ? ' '

*ein peril," shouted several, leaping to
their feet.

'* Yes," was vehemently continued, ^*he
and the young lord of Harcourt are
prisoners, and very soon both will be
on their march to Dublin as manacled
felons."

'' Wurra, wurra ! Lord, Lord ! "
were the current refrains of despair and
astonishment.

'^ Time presses," he added; *' who will
follow me to liberate them ? ' '

*^ We will, we will," uprose on all
sides.

"I only want two resolute men who can
do my bidding, neither more nor less."

** Take us, take us," presenting themselves
in pairs.

'dyer honour," interposed the react
Flanagan, *' av ye want two boys who'll
die in a good cause, there they are," indicating
'^ Cup-o'-Tay " and Tom Muldhoon.

agreed," exclaimed the strange leader;
*you both keep close to me, but speak not.
Landlord, supply some flour and a thin
rope to each, for which I will pay, and now
farewell, my friends. May Providence
help our efforts on behalf of the oppressed !
Good-night, good-night. Come, Walter,
your way is mine for a time," adding with
bitterness as they withdrew, '' even that

moiety may be abridged by the capricious
destiny of which I am the victim."

^' Who is he?"

'' What an illicit gentleman, a splendid
craythm-e intirely," etc., etc., were the
exclamations which came from each occupant
of the inn parlour as the visitors
departed ; the landlady, breathless and
exhausted, stammering, "I stole after
Mister Walther ; an' who d'ye think
that great warrior is ? "

^' Who ? who ? " rose up in one united
voice.

'' God bless him, sure 'tis the would
0' Grady, the outlaw."

CHAPTER IX.

^' Vincent, dear, the papers are all placed
as you desired, and on coming back, I
could not resist the longing to look
through the windows of the church, where
I saw your cousin Dorrington, Mr. Dillon,
and the detestably foolish bride. Ah ! "
she added, ''I have got my revenge at last ?
and it is but the beginning of one wretched
career."

*' I am sorry to hear you talk thus
angrily," observed her companion, with
a reproving look.

'* Once I hate," she went on, unheeding
him, *^ I hate for ever, and I will not rest

until I accomplish her downfall and that
upstart daring husband ; attempting to
palm himself off on the credulous as Vincent,
heir of Harcourt ; what a pleasing
surprise this will be for his wife when she
discovers it. I pity you, Lucy Neville,
indeed I do, ha! ha! ha!" followed in
hollow sounds, at once harsh and discordant,
whereat her auditor winced and bit
his lip, resigning himself to the inevitable,
while she continued her envenomed commentary.
*' What a fall too for Eustace
Dillon, the boon companion of this supposed
heir, cut off from the mercenary
assistance which of course he was promised
when Miss Neville accomplished her
degradation in wedding the adventurer.
Upon my honour, I sincerely feel as
though I could afford her a little active
sympathy, a wife, and at the same moment
her husband taken to prison, or anywhere

so that he is banished, and after
all, what a discovery — that the hero of
her fancy was but an arrant schemer,
pretending to the exalted station which
will ere long be occupied by you, my real
Lord Harcourt."

Twining her arms playfully in his, she
laughed outright, peering into his face to
see him share her mirth ; but the absence
of this expected pleasure was so clearly
revealed, that she recoiled from him in "a
petulant mood, exclaiming, ^' How glum
you look, Vincent ; one would think you
are here against your will." This remark
came very near truth ; but caressingly
he took her — still resisting —
to his side, whispering, ^^ Nay, Fanny,
dearest, you know I am not blest with
your volubility of spirits and powers of
imagination ; therefore I cannot always
behave as you wish, and as I should do

were I sufficiently gifted to understand
you in everything."

Sceptical in habit and inclination she
regarded him steadily if not distrustfully,
but there was a lustre in his soft eye that
amply sufficed, and the next moment they
were hurrying along the sands towards
the well-known breakwater.

It may be observed that at times Dorrington
Harcourt, or Yincent as she supposed
him to be, felt a veritable admiration
for Fanny Chalmers; she was so unlike all
he had hitherto known, far from perfect in
several points, yet she tried to please him
in so many ways, and succeeded, that in
her presence he felt it very difficult to account
for certain thoughts or ideas which,
when absent from her, always rose up.
Familiarity, even among the best of us,
often brings much of what was cherished
in the past into contempt ; not so with

the presumed heir of Harcourt. Every
time he met Miss Chalmers it was to
think more kindly and almost pityingly of
her, for in each idle, fitful look, word, or
gesture, he read the avowal of her heart's
devotion unresisting placed at his feet,
calculating though he knew her to be ; but
when alone, the conviction of her ungovernable
resolve to conquer him, believing
he was Lord Harcourt's son and heir,
tore away the embroidered skein of art
that she deftly wove and rapturously spun.
It had been resolved upon between them
that during Lucy's fated marriage ceremony,
they would go for a yachting expedition
to Bray Head, so that the tragical
denouement thereat would have been fully
completed by the time of their return, and
after accompanying her younger sister to
secrete the treasonable letters in Eustace
Dillon's house, completing the link of evidence

against him and Lucy's husband,
we find her and her assumed lord going
towards the vessel, fully found awaiting
them at the end of the embankment.

^^ It is now coming to the slack tide,"
she observed interestedly, walking briskly,
^' and I want to reach the channel before
it fais."

Her companion was almost useless onboard,
but Miss Chalmers had ere now
successfully navigated the yacht in many
a stiff breeze, the knowledge whereof
accounted for the non-attendance of the
usual old salt, whose place was occupied
by her young lord.

It certainly was a lovely morning, the
^n shone out in brilliant splendour, and
as it lit up the tiny, speckled, phosphorescent
waves — swelling beneath that smart,
three-quarter-decked boat — a feeling of
soft, subdued languor stole upon Fanny

when, forgetful of all but lier firm determination,
she whispered in pensive tones,
*' Vincent, have you ever loved another
more than me ? "

The poetry of the scene had already
influenced him, and with an earnestness
previously unknown, almost startling her,
he answered, —

'^ I have never cared for any but
you, and I never shall."

^' Oh, happiness ! " were her burning
words ; but the speaker's greed was not yet
satisfied, and decisively following up the
unexpected success, she said, revealing a
world of hope in those tremulous eyes and
lips, ' ' When will our marriage take place ? ' '
adding, '' ah ! say soon, Vincent dear."

Yes," looking closely and fixedly into
her upturned face, ^^ our wedding shall be
celebrated the first possible opportunity,
in a manner becoming you and myself."

VOL. II. 10

'* Even without you' father's consent ? "
was nervously pleaded.

Yes, even without my father's "

he paused suddenly.

'you were not going to recall my
joy, were you, Vincent? remember your
promise."

Fanny Chalmers put her forefinger
archly to her mouth, continuing, " The
future lord of Harcourt should not challenge
contradiction from a lady."

"You are an admirable girl," he answered
somewhat wearily. " Of course
your rule must be autocratic."

Miss Chalmers smiled, but in reality she
did not relish the grave look settling upon
her betrothed's face, now alive to the fact
that imprudently he had said more, ay,
much more, than was intended ; however,
he thought, "the terms are sufficiently
vague, and the initiative has yet to come

from my side." Fortified by this comforting
reflection, he bestirred himself about
the yacht, but the disagreeable impression
his late mood had awakened in Fanny's
mind did not yet forsake her, —

'' Nor will it," she mused, ^' until I am
Lady Harcourt ! "

With those three sails listlessly dangling
from the mast, and the helm lashed hard
up, they dipped and waddled through the
placid sea, beguiling time by rigging a
couple of reeling lines — with a revolving
knoud-fly, thereby succeeding in catching
a score or more of whiting-pollock, gurnard,
etc., etc.

The tide had now turned and was fast
making up channel, bringing with it a
change of wind imparting renewed energy
to the occupants of the belated yacht.
The rudder swayed under the control of
Fanny, and as the small vessel went about

at each tack, it became an interesting occupation
for the supposed young lord to
watch her nimbly jam up the sail in the
breeze, and, as it became inflated, again to
see her artfully '' duck " while the sheet
went by over her head.

Leaving old Dunleary on the right,
with every stitch of canvas strained,
they soon came abreast of Dalkey, the
rocky Smuggling, Ballybrack, and so on,
hugging the beautiful, spreading, sandy
coast, until reaching Bray Head. The
light craft was now dexterously floated
into a rude harbour, when, leaving it in
charge, its late occupants went ashore,
shortly after being driven at a rapid pace
to the Powerscourt Waterfall, where the
scene is one of soft, beguiling enchantment,
and long they lingered in its enjoyment.

It had fast settled towards evening ere
they returned to Bray, and was there nota

startling transformation in the view
seaward contrasted with what it presented
only a few hours ago, the sky
being very heavily laden with wild, dark
clouds, driven furiously towards them.

A dull, low, dank atmosphere hung
around the base of the dark, frowning
prominence known as Bray Head, on the
summit of which untamed flocks of the
feathered kind found uncertain shelter,
disturbed only by the wild mountain
leveret romping in uncurbed licence.

The roaring wind swept the sandy
shore with a hollow, sullen, suggestive
moan, lifting inwards the distempered
waves.

'good heavens!" exclaimed the affianced
of Miss Chalmers, " what shall we
do ? "

*' Go back as we came," was replied
decisively.

^' Why, this is madness ! " he angrily
retorted.

^' Do not be alarmed," she said calmly,
'' I am no stranger to this shallow appearance.
Carry your eye yonder,"
pointing channel wards, ^' and observe in
the open sea there is nothing of this
commotion visible."

Her companion bit his lip, but she
suddenly placed her arm in his, almost
bearing him along, when in a voice of
remonstrance he urged, —

'^ You know well I am a total stranger
to exploits of this nature, and cannot
render the slightest assistance in managing
the yacht."

'^ Do precisely the same as was required
of you this morning."

^' But oh, Fanny dearest," he pleaded,
'^ let me entreat you to reconsider your
determination. For heaven's sake, abandon

this insane resolve to return by
water. We will drive home."

*^ To have myself spoken of as a
coward?" she uttered reproachfully;
continuing firmly, '^ No, Vincent, I will
go ; whether alone or not, you must
decide for yourself."

Miss Chalmers began walking rapidly
to where the yacht lay sleeping at anchor
inside of the bar, while, revealing strange
irritation and quivering muscle, the accepted
young lord had no alternative but
to follow. Both were already on board
when they observed the absent fisherman
hastening forward, but the sails had been
hoisted and the yacht cast loose ere the
cautious old son of Neptune came within
hail.

^^ For God's sake," roared the weatherbeaten
man, heedless of the money lying
at his feet, '' put back, put back, hallows

hallo' 0, there's a hurricane outside the
bar. Ye'll be drowned, put back ! "

However, the fierce rushing wind had
now caught the smart vessel on the quarter,
sending her furiously along. Pale as
death sat Dorrington Harcourt, mute and
terror-stricken ; and truly the heavens did
expend their concerted fury upon them,
it soon becoming apparent, even to that
resolute girl, that no boat the size of
theirs could live in such a surf. As night
at last settled down, the woeful, wasted
appearance Miss Chalmers' face had
assumed shattered her companion's every
semblance of self-possession.

** Oh, tell me, we are not going to be
lost, that we will not perish ? " he asked
piteously, lying at her feet.

"It is awfully perilous, Vincent; but
promise solemnly, if I save you, that our
marriage shall be delayed no longer?"

** As certain as that we are here tossed
at the caprice of these elements, rescue
me, and you shall become my wife whenever
you wish," was answered with the
energy of his whole soul.

^' We have one chance," said Fanny;
*^ remain passive and I will try to reach
Dunleary harbour, which I know well ;
it is a hazard, but the wind is with us ;
hope for the best."

^' Oh, pity us, heaven ! we're lost," she
screamed the next instant, grasping the
gunwale, while another shriek rent the
air. But the boat righted, though the
mainmast had gone by the board.

Later on a four-oared gig, fast pulling
towards them, was hailed.

'^ Help, help, help us, save us, save
Lord Harcourt's son ! "

^' Liar," replied a voice high above the
storm. '^ Perish where there is water

enough to hide you, but not sufficient to
wash out your crime."

Early the folio wing morning the overturned
wrecked yacht was found, but
nothing more.

CHAPTEK X.

Throughout the long wretched day in
that more wretched hovel Vincent Dare-court
and Eustace Dillon busied themselves
with the still unresolved problem
as to the cause of their incarceration,
while Lucy, with bowed head, wept not ;
but the very composure of her misery
made it the more earnest and real.

One idea took the place of another
with a like groundless result, and though
they thought and searched out every
possible reason, there was no one point
on which they could fix as ever likely to
have occasioned their arrest.

Lucy, observing the pain that her allusion

to seeking aid from Lord Darecoiirt
brought to her husband, did not pursue
the theme further, nor could she gain an
opportunity of exchanging views thereupon
with Eustace Dillon, much as she
desired it.

'' I belong to no institution in this
country ; indeed am unknown to almost
every one here, so I cannot realize it,"
remarked the newly-made Benedick.

^' And having associated with you alone,
Vincent, it is equally incomprehensible tome,"
added his fellow captive.

'^ Go home, my love, and when we reach
Dublin I will have the authors of this
ignominy brought to condign justice,
whoever they are ; but for the present
it only embitters our mutual distress to
see each other here. Do, Lucy ! Oh,
pray return to Nevillstown, tomorrow
we shall be honourably free."

^' My duty is to share your perils,
Vincent, and I mean to do so," was unhesitatingly
answered.

^^ Our separation cannot be longer thana
day, when I will have torn aside this
cloak of infamy, revealing the nefarious
schemers to their utter discomfiture."

^^ No, I must accompany you to Dublin,
where the large interest of my family maybe
utilized on our behalf," and her irrevocable
determination had to be silently
acquiesced in.

The door of their damp, shadowy cell
was locked on the outside, and guarded
by one sentry pacing in measured step
up and down, to be relieved at intervals
by another stolid mundane disciple of
Mars. With cheese, bread, onions, bad
whisky, and tobacco, the soldiers eat,
drank, and puffed the hours away in
their unwholesome quarters, where the

moist, fetid exhalations found a meet
asylum.

It is not to be wondered at that under
these combined influences the day wore
heavily on, or that the vengeful storm
now bending all beneath its aerial might
found them fast sleeping in that surcharged,
poisonous atmosphere.

The prisoners attentively listened to
the howling wind, weighing heavily upon
their spirits, while mutely in darkness
turning their longing eyes towards the
door, they waited a signal to begin their
expected march to the city jail.

Having resisted every appeal to depart,
Lucy Harcourt now sat as rigid as her
companions, her ears painfully alive to each
phase of the changeful storm, unvaried only
in its terrifying power and continuance.

'^ List ! " was uttered softly, ''I hear
a strange passing step."

'^ Nothing but the tread of the sentry,"
quietly responded Eustace Dillon.

'* It was not," she replied affirmatively.
'^I heard a different one; and hark, it
is there again."

^^ Only your agitated nerves, my love,"
observed her husband — sotto voce — trying
to look into her face, but the horrible
darkness forbade the effort.

'^ The prayers of our childhood may not
yet be unrequited. Have courage, my
fond husband. I repeat emphatically I
heard unusual footsteps; they cannot
mean friendliness to the soldiers, else
why this secrecy?"

'alas! alas! I dare not indulge your
delusive hope," Vincent Harcourt answered
in plaintive tones ; but immediately
afterwards all three started to their feet, as
silently the lock was undone, the door
opened and closed, leaving a tall figure

confronting them lantern in hand, who
said, —

'^ I am sorry to meet you here, Eustace
Dillon, and you, Mr. Harcourt ; but I
crave pardon," uncovering. '' I forgot,
there is another yet more deeply wounded,"
addressing the lady. '' May a stranger
present his warm congratulations to you,
for, though dark has been this day,
ere its close your husband shall be
free."

'^ Oh, sir, do not mock me by a vain
illusion."

^' There is the door, madam, and this
key will set all at liberty whenever you
please."

^' Why, he cannot be the jailer," she
wonderingly exclaimed.

No, Lucy," interposed Eustace confidently;
"he is "

"Not here," and the stranger grasped the

speaker's arm, continuing, '^ oblige me by
withholding my name for the present."

'' Let us depart," pleaded the lady, her
renewed anxiety becoming uppermost.

a There is no necessity for undue haste,
the night being exceedingly tempestuous
and likely to continue so. May I suggest,
Eustace, that I ought to be enlightened as
to the cause of your being here, and the
course you intend to pursue on leaving ?"

^^ To neither question can I reply accurately.
I only know that I was arrested
with my friend this morning on a charge
of treason, and that for hours past we
have been waiting the soldiers' orders to
march to Dublin."

'which shall not occur. Your captors
are my prisoners," observed the tall
stranger.

"Impossible," ejaculated Vincent Dare-court.


VOL. II. 11

^' They will find it is a stern reality
when they wake up," replied the previous
speaker, motioning towards the adjoining
room; "but come," he continued, "Eustace,
have you no clue to the origin of
your incarceration ? "

"No!"

Nor to any individual ? "

To none."

Have you, Mr. Harcourt ? "

"No."

This is surprising."

"It is a mystery," was echoed by
Lucy Darecom't, proceeding in accents
of entreaty, "pray, sir, allow us to depart."

I understand and sympathize with
you, madam, but you will permit me to
consider how I can best serve my friends ;
at present not knowing the quarter from
whence the blow has been struck, it is
difficult to meet and overcome it."

The soldiers may awake and frustrate
all your plans."

*^ Trust me for your safety; " the iron
smile and calmness of the speaker reassured
Lucy as he inquired, '' Of course,
there is no foundation for the charge
in your case, Mr. Harcourt ? "

'' Not the slightest."

^' Nor in mine," added his fellow-prisoners.


^^ Cannot you point to some circumstance
that might have led to the
arrest ? "

I cannot."

^^ Nor to any person predisposed to
injure you ? "

Yes," exclaimed Eustace Dillon,
^' there is a wretch who would sacrifice
me if he could, but this matter is wholly
foreign to him ; and, thank heaven, with
him alone am I at enmity "

^'In the absence of all probable sources,
let me inquire the name of that inestimable
person so anxious to secure your
weal in another world, if not in this,"
followed with a slight laugh.

'^ Brien Flynn, agent to Lord Dare-court,"
was responded in bitter accents.

^^ What ! " exclaimed the questioner in
astonishment; "the very man whom I
warned Mr. Harcourt against."

Warned me," echoed Vincent, " why
we never met before."

Amazement ! Not met before," he
blankly and incredulously rejoined.

Yes, sir, I repeat I never saw you
previous to your entering this miserable
habitation."

'^ You were Miss Chalmers ? "

No, sir, my name was Neville."

'^ Am I dreaming?" escaped from the
tall figure.

^^ This is something anomalous," observed
Eustace Dillon.

^' Anomalous," cried the preceding
speaker, *' but that you are present, I
would," hesitating, ^^ no, I cannot sait.
Eustace, did you preserve all my
letters as I have your replies ? " becoming
heated.

^' Knowing nothing whatever of the
former I could not have sent the latter,"
was composedly answered. »

^' Know nothing of them ? why, Mr.
Vincent Harcourt has been the medium
for our communication."

'^ Certainly not," interrupted the individual
referred to. ^^ I declare that
until this moment I never met you, nor
at any time received communications
either from or for you."

Producing a roll of papers the stranger
held it under those concentrated

rays of white light, issuing from his
lamp, and inquired, —

'raise not all of these in your handwriting,
Eustace Dillon?"

'^ No, they are not."

You brought them to me as being
such, sir ? " turning to Vincent.

"Impossible," the latter answered, but
bending closer to the flame and examining
the documents, the stranger fiercely
started, asserting, —

Sir, you are not Lord Harcourt's son."

Eustace Dillon interrupted with greater
haste and emphasis than was his wont,
saying,—

This is going too far. I have known
my friend here, ay, ever since we were
both little children playing at his mother's
knee."

The late comer stood thoughtfully
silent, but the young wife who had

excitedly listened to the trio, recalling
many mysterious things in the past,
now observed with deliberation : —

^' Vincent, when upset out of the
boat "

sand you, dearest, saved my "

*' No, no," she continued, ^' you recollect
then seeing your father's agent in
company with another man ? "

'' I do."

^' And they seemed to be gleefully
looking towards you."

'' So I thought."

Then this gentleman, our friend,"
indicating the powerful attentive stranger,
^^has since met Brien Flynn and
a young man together."

'' Quite right, so I have, and further,
I distinctly heard the former say to
Miss Chalmers, that that young man
was Vincent Harcourt."

Have you seen this young lady in
either of their society since? " Lucy asked.

'* Yes, several times alone with the
agent's companion."

You remember, Vincent dear," continued
his wife, '' passing by two individuals,
and I afterwards told you one
of them was Miss Chalmers."

''1 do."

*sand that this morning I recognized
her face at the church window fixed onus
with a malevolent look."

'' But what does all this prove ? "
interrogated her husband.

** That your father's deputy, his unknown
associate, and Fanny Chalmers,
are the cause of your incarceration,
and whatever else may follow in the
treacherous future . ' *

'prophetically spoken," responded the
stranger, " to which I will add my conviction

that my letters to yon, Eustace,
written in the belief that your vade mecum,
Mr. Vincent Dareconrt, was a reality and
not a spurious simulation, have been
utilized to bring the vengeance of the
law on both your innocent heads."

'' It is a tortuous conspiracy," observed
Vincent, '* clearly embracing the surreptitious
possession of my own and even of
my father's communications."

^' Hush, what noise is that ? " uttered
the unknown ; continuing softly, ^' they are
waking, follow cautiously, wrap yourself
up, dear madam. Nay, I insist on the
acceptance of this overcoat, the night is
a harsh one for such as thee."

He had a sympathetic voice, that could
not be denied, while his manner was at
once debonair and dauntless.

Extinguishing the light, as the commotion
became audible in the adjoining

apartment, they reached the door through
which the wind swept mercilessly, when
he said in tones unique in their compressed
clearness and force, —

'' There is hut one chance for you both,
and that is to make forthwith for Old
Dunleary Harbors hiding somewhere on
the coast, until Lord Harcourt has been
communicated with : as to this person
tampering with the name of his son ; no
matter how the Government may regard
my letters or myself, the truth remains
that neither you, Eustace, nor Mr. Dare-court,
have received them, an incontrovertible
fact which with time we can
be able to establish."

Neither whispered what each felt and
knew, that it was an awful night to cross
Dublin Bay, but Vincent entreated, —

*' Lucy, my love, we will go, and trust
in Providence, You must return home

under the guidance of our benefactor,
whom but now we know, but who has
abbacy earned our deepest gratitude."

'^ Which wee will prove, and because his
nature is so noble he will forgive a
weak girl who owns to an unchangeable
resolve."

Name it, fair lady."

'' To live or die by my husband's side."
The agitated speaker lowered her head.

"Be it so," answered the stranger;
"the thought is chivalrous even from a
wife," and he passed into the roadway.

The clamour among the imprisoned
soldiers was now very great, and although
their precise words could not be recognized,
the loud assaults against the door, barred
and doubly secured on the outside, startled
Lucy, who clung to her spouse.

Peace, drivelling fools," exclaimed the
captor, thereby instantly quelling the

tumult. '' Know you that your guns and
ammunition are gone, your sentry a
prisoner in my hands, and that I would
send you one by one unprepared to meet
that God of justice, whom you defame
by your acts, but that I wish to teach the
canaille Saxon the chivalry of mercy."

In simple wonderment Lucy Harcourt
followed through the wild storm which
caused them to pause at almost every step.
At length they reached the memorable
breakwater, over which the feathery spray
came in blinding showers, making their
way to where on the lee side an open
four-oared gig lay sleeping in serenity.

'^ Quick, my lads," commanded the
leader abreast of the boat, " bring the
captive here," when immediately issued
from behind the rocks our friends 
and Tom, between whom stood a
foot-soldier.

^' Untie his hands."

''Yis, sir."

The cartridges are drawn ? "

^' Every wan, sir."

*^ And the carbines ? "

"Are here, yer honour."

Throw the ammunition into the tide,"
continued the tall chief, *give the prisoner
the guns." Turning to the latter. " Here
is some money, I cannot spare more. You
need not tell your comrades of having been
forced to drug them and deliver up their
weapons under the pressure of my cocked
flint. Now for the dark wave and liberty !
Man the boat ; and wrap the lady well
up ; stroke oar for me ; Eustace, you
pull the bow, and you, my lads, take the
middle berths. One word" (to the soldier).
'' Do you know who caused the
arrest of my friends ? "

'' I do not, sir."

'' Thank yoii ; but should you ever meet
him or them, say I will be a stranger to
peace until I have his or their blood —
life for life."

^^ Who are you, sir ? " meekly asked
the red-coat.

'michael O'O'Grady, the outlaw," he
answered, stepping into the roomy gig
and shoving it off.

CHAPTEK XI.

The topic at the dinner-table of the viceregal
circle was the arrest of the heir to
the Harcourt title and estates. His father
being known as one of the most unswerving
adherents of the Government, the only
son had come to be regarded, of course, as
the successor to his parent in every sense.
Profound, then, was the astonishment of
the Castle magnates when it transpired
that the first general knowledge of young
Harcourt having returned from the completion
of his collegiate career was the
fact of his seizure for treasonable practices
in connexion with that notorious traitor
O' Grady and another.

Whilst universal sympathy was manifested
towards his noble parent, the son
became as strongly loathed, although unknown
personally to those evincing such
active feeling on the subject. But later on
news arrived of the escape of the accused
through the daring of the Outlaw; this
event increasing the official passion to
something akin to frenzy, which found
immediate vent in the degradation of
the soldiers forming the escort, and in
renewed efforts to effect a earnest.

Throughout these perturbed proceedings
Lord Harcourt did not appear in any way
concerned, which was universally ascribed
to his long period of enforced retirement,
although the executive had expected some
opinion from him if only in writing. The
pleasure of his Excellency therefore became
strongly manifested as a letter was placed
in his hands from that tardy nobleman.

introducing an esteemed friend, Major
Claremont, the bearer, who would fully
represent the writer's views upon so
unfortunate and delicate a matter as the
suspected treason of his son Vincent ;
the missive went on as follows : —

^' Major Claremont is a young man in
whom your Excellency can repose the
utmost reliance, and any opinion you maybe
pleased to communicate to me through
him shall have my ready endorsement
and acceptance."

^* Very good, show the gentleman in,"
said the semi-king with a pleased look,
as the messenger bowing withdrew, the
next moment returning with Lord Dare-court's
protege, whom the astute Viceroy
asked to be seated, pretending to read the
letter, while in reality he was covertly
scanning his visitor, the result of the
scrutiny being evidently of a satisfactory

VOL. II. 12

nature, as, with outstretched legs lolHng in
his large velvet armchair, he proceeded, —

'^ You are on very intimate terms with
my Lord Harcourt, I perceive."

"I assume, your Excellency, he has
kindly notified as much."

'' He has, and I am glad to welcome
you on this account."

The visitor bent a lowly acknowledgment,
but remained silent.

What is your regiment, Major
Claremont ? "

'' The "

Ha, I recollect, an old College chum

of mine is yom colonel — Lord , is

he not?"

Your Excellency is quite right," was
composedly responded.

"You are here on leave I presume?"

I am."

For a prolonged stay ? "

^' Well, I hardly know ; indeed, my
visit is principally in reference to this
misadventure of young Harcourt."

^' A melancholy event in truth," and
the Viceroy looked warm.

'■'■ It is, your Excellency ; Lord Dare-court's
position is not a pleasant one."

^^ Major Claremont, it is a very cruel
one to be placed in by an ungrateful son
and disloyal subject, who, however, shall
meet with the fullest rigour of the law,
together with his infamous companions,
especially the well-known rebel 0' Grady."

'' This latter personage seems to absorb
considerable public attention, from what
I have heard," listlessly observed the
new-comer.

*' He does, and is likely to continue todo
so until his repeated crimes are expiated
upon the scaffold — an event not
far distant, depend upon it."

^' Ha, then your Excellency has a clue
to his whereabouts ? "

'ewe are not far from hin at this
moment ; but even you. Major, can bring
us nearer the desired object."

My ready services are at your Excellency's
command with extreme pleasure,"
was answered with much suavity.

Come nearer to me, young man.
You seem very hank, and I shall be
equally unreserved with the bosom friend
of my Lord Dare court."

I am honoured beyond my deserts,
I fear," said the officer, quietly bringing
forward his chair to the desired point,
where he waited respectfully listening
for the exalted host's next words, who
continued, —

I presume you are very familiar with
Lord Harcourt's rebellious son?"

"I am."

'' Of course yoii are not acquainted
with his confederate, that arch-traitor
O'O'Grady?"

The visitor's look and smile wore so
innocent an expression of genuine amazement,
that the noble speaker appeared
much amused, adding, —

*^ "What an idle, silly question to put to
a perfect stranger coming to this country
ha ! ha ! ha ! — upon my word it was —
ha ! ha ! " and they both laughed long
and heartily.

Refreshment was now handed to Major
Claremont, and after bowing and drinking
to the Viceroy, the latter resumed,
wiping his eyes still moist from the
recent merriment, —

^' You could do the State a great service
by employing your tact and influence
to secure the earnest of Vincent Dare-court
and his confederates."

'' Your Excellency has but anticipated
what his father himself counsels."

'' Capital news indeed," exclaimed the
man of highest rank in Ireland ; and
stretching forth his hand he cordially shook
that of his visitor, saying warmly, —

^^ We are agreed then ? "

*' Yes, yom Excellency; you wish to
secure Lord Harcourt's son ? "

^' I do," emphatically.

''So do I, and this — what is he called ?
the rebel, I mean."

'' O'O'Grady," quickly replied the Viceroy,
^' whose capture is of more importance
than any other dozen criminals."

'' I also intend to provide for him ; but
is there not one named Dillon ? "

*' Oh, he is hardly deserving notice, a
convenient jury and an obliging judge —
indeed, all the officials are such — will
make short work of him."

*' Has your Excellency any doubt of
their actual guilt ? "

'none whatever. I have seen the
pile of documents referring to the case,
but the principal links are the letters
from the Outlaw to young Harcourt and
his replies."

^'What a fortunate possession," exclaimed
the visitor, continuing, — ^' May I
inquire how these papers were procured ? "

^^ At the residence — indeed in the
clothes of the accomplice Dillon."

*' There can be no question of their
authenticity, I presume ? "

^' Oh, none ; experts have already pronounced
them to be hand fide ; besides,
I forgot, you, Major Claremont, must
know the writing of Lord Harcourt' s
son ? "

'eyes, perfectly."

^^ Then oblige by favouring me with

your opinion. I will send for these
letters for your inspection."

Soon afterwards the Viceroy beheld his
visitor examining the several epistles
with the utmost precision, from which heat
length looked up, saying with marked
emphasis, —

^* I am convinced that this is not the
handwriting of Vincent Harcourt."

*^ Impossible, Major Claremont, I repeat
it is impossible."

*^ And I, your Excellency, crave permission
to persist that it is as I assert.
I am of all others best acquainted with
his telegraphy."

*^ There is an astounding discrepancy
somewhere," was the Viceroy's displeased
remark, as he walked backwards and forwards,
unwilling to think the missives were
not as he had represented and believed
them to be, yet unable to reconcile this

conviction with the positive assurance of
his trusted visitor.

After a pause, the Lord-lieutenant
confronted the young officer, observing, —
'^ I have been anxiously thinking how to
unravel this mystery, but with no success
; is there any ready plan you could
suggest whereby it can be solved?"

ic There is but one way, your Excellency."


Name it, please ? " •

Submit the letters to Lord Harcourt
for his testimony."

''A capital idea indeed; but the difficulty
is that his lordship, being an invalid,
cannot come to musc''

^' With your Excellency's sanction I
will take them to him, returning forthwith
with his answer, and until this is
done, any step taken in the interim might
prove unjust."

The Viceroy cogitated deeply, then
said aloud, —

Major, your argument is right in point
of fact, one of my aides shall accompany
you with the papers, obviating the necessity
for your return ; after Lord Harcourt
has decided upon the writing we shall
know what course to pursue."

A gleam of anger shot from under the
visitor's brow at the humiliating thought,
"■ Does he mistrust me ? " but the apprehension
quickly passed away.

Summoning an aide-de-camp, the Lord-lieutenant
said, —

'major Claremont, I fancy our interview
this day will be regarded as no ordinary
one, should the results which I anticipate
be accomplished, and I rely on your zealand
discretion to aid us in a cause of
such import to the country, and certain
to reflect much credit upon yourself."

My reward, your Excellency, is already
gained in the conviction that what I am
doing will promote justice, although it may
run in a different channel to that which
you expect; in any case it is not unlikely
that this meeting will prove eventful."

On the staff - officer entering, his
superior said, 'allow me to introduce to
you Colonel Bagshot, Major Claremont,"
accompanied hy the ordinary conventionalities
of presentation. *

The former suddenly pulled up, arresting
the bow he was gracefully making, as
some vague recollection of having seen the
face of the gentleman before flashed upon
him — while unmindful of his hesitation,
the Viceroy observed confidently, —

Major Claremont is a valued and
trusted friend of Lord Harcourt," at
once putting the two listeners on the
best of terms.

Shortly after the Lord-lieutenant rose
saying,—

Colonel Bagshot, yoii will please to
take these documents, and go with the
Major to Lord Harcourt's for' his lordship's
opinion regarding their authenticity,"
handing him a folded parcel.

If I might venture upon a suggestion,"
interposed the visitor, ^^ I would
urge your Excellency to leave all the
papers intact for examination and contrast,
one may materially assist the other in
arriving at a conclusion."

^^ Very good counsel," were the approving
terms of reply, ^' take them all.
Colonel ; and now good-bye, sir, I am
pleased to make your acquaintance, one
not readily to he forgotten."

Your Excellency is most kind and flattering
— and I have little doubt when the
object we have in view is attained, you

will think more and oftener of me ; ' '
nearing the door, he quickly added,
*will you graciously accord me permission
to wait upon you privately,
should such a necessity arise in furtherance
of your commands? "

"" Certainly," returned the ruler of
Ireland, seating himself and writing on
an official stamped form, to which he
appended his signature, " Bearer is to
pass unquestioned." '

When the aide-de-camp and his new
friend got near the central gate in the
castle yard, the latter called out, —

Oh, what a misfortune, I forgot his
Excellency's written reply to Lord Dare-court's
private letter, and must return
for it," going backwards a step, when he
was overtaken by the Colonel, politely
saying,—

'' Pray do not trouble, I will find it

for you, as I know the shortest approach
to the apartment."

"Thank you very much," he courteously
responded, "I will relieve you of this,"
indicating the parcel destined for Lord
Harcourt, " and await you here," which
the aide-de-camp handed to him, and
disappeared in the viceregal quarters.

This recent visitor to his Excellency, the
Lord-lieutenant of Ireland, was no sooner
alone, than with a bound he turned to the
right speeding across the wide square to
where the stables stood, — shouting to
the English groom, " Quick, saddle your
fastest horse without delay. I am going
on urgent business for the court." And
under the influence of the formal pass
with the Viceroy's autograph, supplemented
by a large silver coin, that
accepted representative of the Et. Hon.
Lord Harcourt was already in the

saddle, disappearing at a stiff gallop by
the side of the Birmingham Tower
towards the back gate of Dublin Castle.

However, just as he reached this exit,
the sentry thereat saw the well-known
form of the aide-de-camp in the distance,
gesticulating towards the horseman while
still running forward.

colonel Bagshot wants you, sir,"
observed the soldier respectfully, standing
in the way of the equestrian. •

You are mistaken, it is not for me,
here is my authority," producing the
recognized countersign — and in another
instant, as the sentry saluted, steed and
rider galloped up Ship Street, and were
immediately lost to view.

^'Did you not see me motion you to
stop the miscreant ? ' ' wrathfully exclaimed
the irate officer, who now came
up to the gate breathless and steaming.

'why, Colonel, he showed me the Lord-lieutenant's
orders," the soldier still
stood in saluting posture, inquiring, " I
hope there is nothing wrong. Colonel?"

"Yes, some valuable papers and the
horse have been stolen by him."

'' Who is he, Colonel ? "

"I do not know ; but stay, what is
this ? " and stooping, the angry speaker
picked up a letter dropped by Major
Claremont, whilst almost simultaneously
with opening it, the sentry in amazement
heard the aide-de-camp exclaim, —

'' Perdition ! it is 0' Grady the Outlaw.
I thought I recollected the face," reflectively,
" and so it was Arkwright's
wife who effected his escape from prison."
Colonel Bagshot's eyes were still riveted
on the recovered note, which ran thus : — •

"They call you Michael O'O'Grady the
traitor; but you saved my husband's life.

and in gratitude I shall accomplish your
freedom ; may your futile be a happy one.
Eemember that promise of mercy, spare
Robert Arkwright, from whom and this
country I am fleeing for ever. Farewell.
^' His unhappy wife,

^^ Agnes."

VOL. II. 13

Chapter XII.

*' Fifty guineas to land two gentlemen
in Galway."

I thought we selected the Arran
Islands?"

The first speaker replied in an undertone,
"I trust no one — Galway is the safest
place ; " repeating aloud, '^ Fifty guineas
to land two gentlemen in Galway ! "

^' 'Tis a wild night an' a long journey,"
suggested the calculating fisherman.

'' And a good sum to earn, my man."

^'Yis, that same is three ; bud whin
d'ye want the smack, sir ? "

'eat once; there must be no delay."

*^ Why, we've no purvishun an board."

'^ Get whatever yon can, I will pay
for it."

"Thin ril say agreed; 'tis a bargain,
yer honour."

Very well. How many hands do you
carry ? "

'' Mesel', brother, an' a gossoon. Here,
Jim, show yersel' to the gentleman."

A stout, fat boy of some fourteen or
fifteen now stood upright, with a small
sour-wester in hand, turning his grey
eyes towards the ground.

*you will not be afraid of going a
long way from home at this hour ? " observed
a kindly voice.

"No, sir, I'm ruddy this minnie," was
answered readily.

Thin be aff. Git yersel' toady, an'
swallow something' afore ye start," interrupted
the parent, putting his hand in

his loose trousers pocket, which contained
nothing but a ^'backy-box," jack-knife, and
other small sundries, when the stranger
came to the rescue, saying, —

^^ Here, my lad, do as you are advised,"
at the same time giving him some loose
money.

'' Thank yer honour," came decorously
from father and son, as the gentleman
who had first spoken again addressed
the proprietor of the large fishing-smack
of rude outlines but immense beams,
saying,—

'' We will give you an hour to have
every requisite on board and to slip the
cable."

'^ All right, gentleman, id '11 be just as
ye say," was responded in a businesslike
voice.

Arm-in-arm these two customers of
the fisherman walk towards the smoky-looking

cabin wherein, disposed as the rude
belongings would best permit of, Lucy
Harcourt and 0' Grady awaited the return
of the trawler's clients ; Cup-o'-Tay and
Tom, having been already paid (which
money they accepted with reluctance) , were
sent on their way rejoicing to Dublin.

^' You see, my dear madam," observed
the Outlaw with a grave look, ^' those who
suffer most know most, and my practical
experience of the hard, partial laws of the
country enables me to give advice unattainable
under ordinary circumstances."

Casting anxious glances upon that fine,
earnest face, Lucy watched him of whom
she had heard so much with an abiding
interest, as he proceeded, —

^^ The web surrounding your husband
is of no ordinary kind ; but consists of a
combination of cunning and falsehood.
At any time this compound would be

dangerous ; but it is doubly so now,
when we know not where it begins nor
how far it may have extended."

^^But oh, Mr. O'O'Grady," she uttered
plaintively, ^' it is so hard to say we must
part : cannot we go together ? " and the
speaker looked towards him hopefully.

*' It will be harder if, through imprudence,
you suffer mayhap for years."

*' Pray do not anticipate such a dreadful
misfortune ! " she pleaded.

^' Then be reasonable," he said ; *' separate
from your husband until we ascertain
the charge laid against him and who are
its authors. As to your accompanying him
it would render recognition inevitable."

** Perhaps — nay, you must be right, and
I would feel satisfied if you shared their
temporary seclusion, to emerge from it
with them, restored to happiness and
doubly endeared to me and mine."

His large eyes expanded, a mist settling
between him and the fire whither he looked,
while, in a deep subdued voice, he replied,
'' How long ago it seems since words
like those you have now spoken saluted
my ears. Once, a voice and a look such
as thine thrilled through my soul and lit
up its deepest feelings ; but the grave has
long held my mother its prize, since when
I have had no home, no love, none of those
living dreams of happiness — born in heaven
—blessing us on earth, and still awaiting
us beyond. No, I have nothing left but
the memory of my own and my country's
wrongs growing deeper day by day."

^' I could not dare to trespass on such
grief ; but will it not at least mitigate it,
and also benefit your friends, if you go
with them ? Do let me entreat you. I
would be reconciled even to separation
from Vincent were you to accompany

him." She held out her frail hands imploringly.


Unmindful of her appeal, he urged determinedly,
—

*' One must remain to watch the ebb and
flow of this rank current of conspiracy,
prepared to fathom it to its lowest
depths, until the foundations shall have
been revealed. Mine be that work of
danger ! "

** Thus eager to suffer for others,"
observed the young wife sadly.

^' No, no," was exclaimed; ^*you overrate
my efforts," continuing, " I am denied
the companionship of my fellow-man, except
by stealth, and that love of old Ireland,
which the world is powerless to subvert, is
my one besetting sin. They cannot," he
added vehemently, *' drive me from the land
of my birth, for the reason that I will not
leave it. No, let my end be by the musket-ball

or the gibbet, I care not, so that I die
facing our foes. Thus it is, madam, that
that which you regard as danger comes
to me like scented perfume, alluring most
where it is the greatest."

'' Oh, Mr. O'O'Grady! would that I could
contribute to your happiness ! "

'you can to your husband's by allowing
him to retire in safety until I reveal
the treacherous plot encompassing both of
you." «

'rare you certain of success?" she
timidly inquired.

"Yes," he replied proudly; "I will
know the labyrinths of the conspiracy and
its authors before three days have elapsed."

Then I am content ; Vincent and
Eustace may go. This period will not be
very long to await their justification."

Mrs. Harcourt, you have spoken well :
remember, my undertaking is in three

days hence to place in your hands actual
proofs of this confederation in its most
intricate phases."

^* May heaven requite your generous
devotion," she responded with feeling.

'^ Madam, withhold these expressions
of gratitude. If I fail, which a few hours
shall determine, then, as now, rely on
Providence to overcome your enemies,
in the triumph of justice."

The two absent friends here entered
the fisherman's dwelling, when Vincent
soothingly addressed his wife, saying —

*^ I hope you have relented in yom determination,
and will suffer us to retire
until the extent of the besetting danger
is ascertained."

Apprehending her reply, and resolved to
end this vacillation, O'O'Grady intervened,
declaring —

^' I may state with pleasure that Mrs.

Harcourt and myself have arrived at an
understanding whereby I agree to place
before her the correct details of this malicious
scheme, together with the names of
the conspirators, and then she will decide
what line to follow."

The young bride looked with tearful
eyes towards her husband, wherein tracing
irresolution he supplicated, — ^^ Oh, say
you are content, dearest ; with Eustace
I have already chartered the vessel,
our only chance lying in immediate
departure."

*' Upon the third day," interrupted the
Outlaw, " if Mrs. Harcourt wishes, I promise
to conduct her in safety, wherever
you may be located in Ireland."

*' Then go, my love," was hastily whispered
by Lucy ; ^' I will try to live without
you even for that time."

Unlike the retiring girl of but yesterday,

she now, in the hoiir of peril, forgot all
but her beloved husband
told her not to leave the cabin
until a conveyance had been procured to
take her home to Nevillstown ; that they
would sail to Galway, where the Claddagh
fishermen were to be relied upon ; but that
on the passage along the coast he would
write fully, and as soon as 0' Grady
placed before her the real character of
the charge, they could jointly determine
whether it was safe to return home at
once and proclaim their innocence, or wait
until Lord Harcourt had been communicated
with.

'' Good-bye, Eustace," Lucy said softly,
presenting him the side of her face, and
pressing both his hands warmly, while her
black eyes expressed a deep feeling of concern
and anxiety. " It will be only three
days until we meet, and you, too, must

promise to write to me when Yincent
does."

Their mutual friend, exhausted by the
emotion he vainly tried to suppress, without
replying, rushed after the Outlaw,
who had just gone into the open air.

^' Heaven bless you, my darling wife ! "
sighed Lord Harcourt's son, clasping her
to his bosom ; ^^ it is but for a few hours
we are severed. You must not become
dispirited. 0' Grady will be your mainstay,
and he will not fail in his honest promise.
Do not venture forth in the storm ;
sit here," placing her unresisting in a
low rough chair. *^ Farewell, Lucy. Try
to be calm. Our separation will soon be
over : " but she spoke not. ^^ Say that
you will not grieve ; tell me that, Lucy,
and I shall depart tranquillized."

At this moment the voice of the Outlaw
was heard proclaiming, —

*' They are hoisting the anchor."

** Go ! " exclaimed the resigned wife.

Her husband was on the threshold, but,
turning, he once more rushed back, gazing
into those drooping, tearless limpid eyes,
while embracing her.

'^ Oh, Lucy ! it will break my heart
if you do not speak. Only say you will
strive not to bewail our unavoidable
parting ! "

** The anchor is on board, and the
smack hauling down by the pier," came
from the outside.

^* Go ! " Lucy again mechanically
uttered, and she was alone.

Her protector stood by her side, but
she was not agitated ; nay, she was calm,
almost passive, and he thought it was
best not to interrupt the current of her
musings. Suddenly, however, she started,
saying,—

^^ Mr. 0' Grady, may I ask you to accompany
me to the end of the jetty? "

^* I would with pleasure, but the night
is still very rough, and quite unsuited
to such as you."

With piteous looks she implored his
assent ; though remaining silent, his kindly
nature could not longer resist that mute,
pathetic appeal ; and, securing her in his
comprehensive overcoat, he led her along
the unequal granite pier. Restless swayed
the numerous fishing-craft to their stone-gripped
anchors, but still they slept in
peace compared with those two who now
silently, arm-in-arm, proceeded to the end
of the artificial projection, straining their
eyes seawards, where, battling with the
tumultuous waves on which it rose and
fell, went the small ship, separating Lucy
from all she had ever really loved, while
beneath them they beheld a capsized yacht

dashing against the rocks, and, almost at
their feet, a hat, on which 0' Grady deciphered
the name "Fanny Chalmers."

Oh, mercy ! " exclaimed Lucy Dare-court,
fainting away.

What an eventful day in her young life !
a bride — a wife — this morning, and now
rent from her husband, reposing lifeless
on the bosom of a stranger, and that
stranger the notorious Outlaw.

Chapter XIII.

It is the fair of Malahide, and stretching
away in front as far as the eye can reach
stand snowy white tents, with green and
red flags proudly waving upon their outside
pinnacles, while from within the sound
of merry revelry, to the tune of the hornpipe,
jig, or round dance, comes stealing
up the gently inclining wooded eminence
surrounding the well-chosen spot whereon
the fair was held. How many in the days
of yore like unto those, now giddy with
the excitement of the unwonted mirth, had
been there joining in the boisterous hilarity,
but where are they now ? Gone from this

VOL. II. 14

sphere of transient joy ; nor will they be
missed by the capricious crowd assembled
there for a brief space of unchecked recreation
and merriment. Apples, oranges,
hard-boiled eggs, nuts, gingerbread, cru-been,
trotters, weak aerated beverages,
thick clay pipes with metallic perforated
covers, enormous sandwiches, bread,
butter, etc., etc., are sold in confusion.
Washing-tubs, chins, and other similar
articles of domestic use had to be pressed
into the service wherein the '' porter "
was promptly emptied from the barrels,
it being otherwise impossible to supply
the ever-recurring demand.

*' 'Tis another has gallon, av ye place."
The ''craythure" was usually retailed
from black bottles or stone jars, but on
this occasion an innovation therein was
attempted which the Reverend Father
'Gorman determined to suppress, and

most effectually he accomplished his
purpose.

^^ The devil you know is bad enough,"
muttered his Reverence, " but these
arrant codgers must be exterminated."

Coming to the first vendor of whisky,
contained in a round keg erected on a
stand, who had done little in the way of
business, the people regarding it and the
strange vessel with suspicion, the parish
priest leaned across the polished apparatus
inquiring interestedly, —

^^ How do you get on ? "

*' Thrace is very shy, yer Kivirence,"
meekly answered with a genuflection.

After a few other observations, Father
0' Gorman departed, hoping they would
do better.

''He's the finest gentleman av a priest
I ever know'd yit," was the opinion of the
liquor retailer, until, oh amazement, when

the next customer arrived and he was
proceeding to draw a glass, there was
none left ; all the time his Reverence had
been leaning over the keg, talking so
blandly, he had been letting the whisky
run away, effectually consigning the illicit
trader to futile obscurity, so far as Mala-hide
Fair was concerned.

The roundabout swings, rough rocking-horses,
together with more real, rollicking
asses and ponies, were ready to confer
fame upon any aspirant for a dirty coat, ora
headache, at prices varying from "two
pince to a tin-pinny piece," according to
the appearance of worldly prosperity indicated
by the ambitious for fame in equine
display, and the dexter finger of the proprietor
of any one of these games was on the
coveted coin almost before the victim had
opened his calico bag, or purse made out of
a long stocking or the sleeve of an old coat.

The fun on the green was now at its
height, when a considerable body of the
peasantry suddenly issued from under a
tent, stood a minute or two exchanging
high angry words, and then suddenly up
and down went scores of previously concealed
sticks, once, twice, thrice, until
some one or more unfortunates bore
evidence of spilt blood, whereupon the
zeal of both parties being satisfied, the
wounded were tenderly carried back for the
restoratives already prepared; the primitive
faction fight standing adjourned until
the next trifling provocation witnessed a
renewal of the recent fracas.

To a particular booth, the largest and
most crowded in the fair, wherein the scene
was one of unabated mirth and jocularity,
we must now direct attention. The fiddler
and harpist were industriously plodding
away, with bow and fingers as on that

square wooden platform fronting them
the dancers responded, while a little
lower down another party and yet a third
group still more remote waxed warm and
merry to the stimulating sounds of the
well-known ^'Fox-hunters' Jig." The proprietor
faced the itinerant musicians with
the counter between ; and along each side
of the capacious tent a firm, continuous
bench extended, the roof being sustained
by joists or wooden rafters lying transversely,
and fastened to the ground with
pegs, having ropes attached. Empty
barrels upholding planks on the top were
placed about indiscriminately, answering
the purpose of tables or receptacles for
the various measures, plates, pipes, etc.

It was almost at the close of the day,
and in the very plenitude of the festivity in
this booth, that the dancers were violently
upset, barrels overturned, the bar, proprietor,

musicians, and crowd all levelled
alike to the ground, while the very pavilion
caved in as its principal beams, ropes,
and supports were torn away, screams of
terror mixing with cries of *^ Save 0' Grady,
save the Outlaw," ^^ Down wit the
soldiers," '^ Out wit the garrisons," and
so on. The obnoxious red-coats lay
labouring and struggling in that living
sea of stifling perturbation, whither they
had chased the rebel, when the tent was
borne down upon them all. Creeping on
the soft earth, the fugitive by tremendous
power fast drew ahead, nearing that faint
glimmer of daylight revealed at the end
of the canvas, towards which all were
confusedly struggling.

At length emerging from the pandemonium
and motioning to the sympathizing
crowd outside to repress their jubilations
and keep back, he threw off his coat,

placing himself in an expectant attitude.
As the first soldier, almost lifeless, appeared,
the gin was wrenched from his
hands by the Outlaw, and thrown to the
peasantry, who stood confronting the military
with menacing scowls, until one by
one the whole escort had been disarmed,
as though they were so many children.

I want no parley, sir," continued the
pursued to their leader. ^'You do your
duty. My terms are simple : deliver up
your ammunition, and I will restore the
flints, or keep it and I shall retain them
despite all your efforts."

We can do neither," was the surly

reply.

*you must if I am so minded," exclaimed
0' Grady, crossing over to where
the soldiers doggedly stood, the peasantry
beginning to follow; ^' Go hence, my
valued friends ; I desire no bloodshed,

and to guard against the possibility of it,
I shall have the ammunition. Come," he
proceeded, raising his proud figure to its
full height, and confronting the military :
sphere I stand a man before men, or who
ought to be such, and I offer you this
chance: abandon these arms, tryunassisted
to take me prisoner, and if I do not conquer
you one and all, I beseech you to
dismiss me from a world dishonoured by
my presence."

Father 0' Gorman now softly moved
forward, saying, '' I have heard something
of this affair, let me speak a word
to you, sir, in private," addressing the
leader of the soldiers, who retired a short
distance with the priest. Returning in a
few moments, the ammunition was destroyed,
and the guns given back to their
owners, notwithstanding the evident
chagrin of the people.

*away to your honest merriment'*
besought the Outlaw, " and be happy
while you can ; a short turn may lead
to the path of sorrow."

The speaker's earnestness greatly saddened
the peasantry, who pleaded, —

'* Make him stay, Father 0' Gorman,
make him stay, yer Evidence ; sure
he must perish av he goes an farther."

With curiosity even the soldiers look
on now, as the pastor of the people
observed entreatingly, —

^'You hear them, Mr. O'O'Grady, they
pity you — would die for you : why deny
them their request ? Oh, do not abandon
yourself to a living tomb."

** My good father," he answered, taking
the priest's hand warmly, 'because that
I love poor Ireland you see me thus ; yet
for this self-same reason, you say these
people would die for me, and I know their

sincerity; am I not then requited for
all I have endured, ay, and shall endure,
before I succumb? No, no," he added
passionately; *dead they may take me,
but only when lifeless."

^'Why not leave the country for a
time ? " was urged.

** What, forsake the green, sunny land
of my birth ? Never, never. Farewell,
my heroic friends, I am not of your faith,
yet since finding a resting-place under
the starry dome of night, I have often
thought it were best to err, as you do,
if erring it be, in ascribing too much —
rather than too little — of our every-day
life to a watchful Providence."

As 0' Grady turned to disappear in the
wood, he saw the peasantry receiving the
priestly benediction, at the solemn sound of
the Angelus,whenuncoveringhe sighed, ''A
good man's blessing is not lost on high."

Chapter XIV.

^* I HOPE yon are well, my friend," were
the greeting phrases of Robert Arkwright
to his confrere Brien Flynn, as he pushed
a chair towards him.

The latter ensconced himself therein,
answering, —

'' Toady in health, thank ye, but virry
anxshiis about other matters."

Ha ! anything unusual, Brien ?" was
asked across the table.

Well, av course ye're leered Warrington
Darecoort an Miss Chalmers went away
in the yawn, an' haven't bin seen since ? "

^' I am aware of that, — is there anything
further? "

*' Troth, an' there is," replied the
visitor demurely.

*name it," inquired Arkwright, in an
anxious voice.

*^ The yawn has bin found turn'd
upside-down ! "

*but Harcourt and Miss Chalmers?"
eras tremulously exclaimed.

'^Bedad, there's neither tale nor tidings
thin, I'm sorry to say," and Flynn
positively did look sorry. -^

^' Good God ! they're drowned to a
certainty," came from Arkwright in
blank surprise.

'^ 'Tis a bad job for me av they are,"
observed the Harcourt deputy, doggedly
looking towards the small fire; ^^bud
I don't surrender every hope for all
that."

'' Why so, Lynn ? "

Bekayze Fanny Chalmers is not the

sort av a girl to cut her thick in a
hurry, or I'm gravely mistaken."

"You build more on her than on this
young spark Harcourt ? "

Whew ! " said Flynn, expelling the
air through his projecting closed lips,
d'ye think I hadn't me eyes about whin
I kep pushing' him an to the marriage ? "
The speaker added with energy, " I'll
shake an even hundred golden guineas,
barren' axidints, she'll make him marry
her an' thin ware the breeches."

''Ha! ha! you are graphic in your
description. Still, the consideration ought
to be which of the two will best suit your
views."

'' She will, av course," spoken with
determination. '' He might alter, bud
want she gits him under her thumb, he
can't budge ; thin wil be me time to let
her know she has me to take into account,

an' share I'll throw her a reminder 'two
I med the love-match, though bethany
us two, poor Dorrington '11 find she's a
lucifer," and Flynn laughed heartily at
his attempted humour.

*' There is no fear of Lord Harcourt
suddenly relenting or changing towards
his only son? "

*^No, Mister Arkwright, bud it work
close shave had we not met him the
night I left ye whin thriving to the City
in his state coach, an' thin he gev us
lots av trouble."

Yes, that was a lucky encounter.
Yet even now he might soften, and bring
back Vincent."

'' No ; his marriage wit Miss Neville
dhruv the last nail in Mister Vincent's
coffin."

"This ought not to be," responded
Arkwright. " Miss Neville belongs to

one of the best families in Ireland, besides
being possessed of extensive property."

^^ Ye forget I would a far different story
to his lordship, who belay vs her to be
some low-bred muzzy his son tuck out av
the tide. As regards the property id
now belongs to her husband, and ye must
help me to git the government to 
id ; for so long as they hav
money we must expect trouble ; whin
they're paupers we stand a chance av
shutting' thin up altogether."

^'I will easily accomplish that task
for you. Has Lord Harcourt accepted
this nephew yet as his heir?" added
Ark Wright.

'* 'Tis too soon. I'm thriven' home
the wedge in Dorrington's favour, but id
requires delicate handling. His lordship
has a waykeness for Vincent still, though
whin ye touch his pride, he'd banish him

at that minnie no matter how soon
after he repents."

^'I commend your skilful manoeuvring,
persevere and have all ship-shape when
the old Lord dies to proclaim young
Dorrington his successor. By the way,
how does the lonely man wear his age ? "

'sometimes I think, Mister Arkwright,
as how he'd giv us a sudden ship,
thin he pulls up wonderful like, bud I
know his son's affair is bringing' him near
the grave sooner nor he wud av he hadn't
id to worry him."

''Be on your guard that he leaves no
unexpected writing which might upset
your calculations."

'tis little he through's his pin, an'
that little I take good care av when it
shute me purpose."

Capital, Brien ; you are prepared for
whatever happens."

VOL. II. 15

"Ay," muttered the Harcourt agent
gleefully; "I've a regular set av docking
to take the plaice av anything' the
Lord may write, even an artistic will ;
an' av Mister Dorrington turns an me
he'll found they're not the three was
after all, tho' they'll do for him except
he compels me to pordhuce the originals,
which I'll do in self-defence so sure as
I'm sitting' where ye see me."

It is but natural that in our respective
positions between landlord and tenant we
should take care of the interests of both,
at the same time well guarding our own,"
responded Arkwright, accompanying the
remark with a knowing wink of the left
eye, which his confrere appreciably understood,
replying with a dry laugh, —

Honesty begins at home. Ha ! ha ! "

A knock at the door interrupted these
worthies.

'^ Come in ! " exclaimed the host,
demanding, as the domestic presented
herself, '^ What is it? "

a There's a gentle an waiting' for ye, sir."

"Oh! I'm engaged," in a vexations
voice, '^ far too busy to see any one."

As the servant was retiring he asked if
she knew who it was that wanted him.

I don't, sir ; hud he sed as how
he cum's from the Castle."

What ! " exclaimed her employer
wrathfully ; '^ how dare you bring only
half a message, and that the least important
part ? "

Bekayze ye tuck the wind out av me,"
was stoutly rejoined.

Get away, leave my sight this moment.
The idea of keeping a government courier
waiting, it is monstrous. Excuse me,
Brien, for a few moments," said Arkwright,
following the retreating menial.

'all! don't minsliun id," was borne
to the ears of Sir Mervyn Mervyn's agent,
while the representative of the Harcourt
property lolled back in the chair, thinking
who could this messenger be from the viceregal
comet.

"I'd give a trifle to larn," he mused,
'' this Arkwright's a deep card, known'
party well all about me own affairs, tithe
never through s me wit his. Begor, I'll
pump him dry av I git a chance whin
he returns."

It was not long before Robert Arkwright
came back and resumed this seat, but so
changed in look, his quivering face being
preternaturally white, that Brien Flynn,
throwing up both hands, cried out in
alarm, —

'' Grate powers, what's amiss ? What
ails you ? Shake, man, shake out; I'm
awful nervous."

u There," answered the former in
rapid accents, '' read that ! " throwing on
the table Mrs. Arkwright's letter to the
Outlaw, which the latter had dropped when
decamping from Dublin Castle on the fleet
steed unwittingly provided by his Excellency
the Lord-lieutenant.

'what a strange thing," observed the
Harcourt deputy, ^^ for your wife to hav
don ! "

^' This then accounts for her long silence
since she left me to revisit her English
relatives, which was evidently a mere pretext
for escaping," pointing to the note.

^' Hav ye no family ? " inquired the
visitor.

^'None."

Thin lit her go, an start again."

*what do you mean, Flynn?"

^' Wives are chaype, buy another wit a
rthune — a toady lot '11 be wanting' ye

^vliin the world knows ye 're a bachelor,
ha! ha!"

To do Eobert Arkwright justice it must
be chronicled that the greenest spot, indeed
the only possible oasis in his desert-like
life was an approximation to a feeling of
kindness for his English wife, who, if not
fascinating or handsome, was yet withal
truly good, her meekness and unselfishness
gradually extorting from her husband a
regard he did not deem himself to be
capable of until now, when for the first
time he felt she was lost to him, and
that through the Outlaw.

^^ Ah, curse you, 0' Grady," he exclaimed
aloud, " I will be even with you before
long. She idly asks for mercy, but yon
will beg mine, and I shall scorn the petition
— nay, loathe and contemn you in
your utter helplessness."

'' Yer not placed wit the double he gentle

soldiers at Malahide Fair," jocosely
observed the Harcourt agent.

'^ I have an undying incentive now
beside which the eye hundred guineas
reward pales into nothingness."

Begor, id is a lot av money," was
feelingly suggested.

^' Not now, Brien. I would cheerfully
add as much from myself to see the
villain hung, drawn, and quartered."

*' 'War not his fault av yer wife left ye."

^^ It is his fault," the host rejoined
vehemently, 'sto enable him to baffle
justice she becomes severed from her
husband, and I shall avenge the blow."

Sure an' so wud I in troth, av I
wor in yer plaice, an' that say's wisely
don be marrying' the first dancing girl ye
meet having' sufficient money to make
id worth yer while."

<<Why do not you get spliced, if you

esteem marriage so highly?" was inquired
in a bantering voice.

'who knows I won't?"

*when may your friends expect to
hear of the desirable event ? ' '

'^ As soon as Lord Darecoort's dead, his
nephew Dorrington in his plaice, an' mesel'
bound for Ameriky, or anywhere out av
this ghost-like country, wit all me hard
arnins snug in me pocket, thin whin the
world lies at me feet, neither given' nor takin'
favors, shut her money float near high
father-mark, I'll marry id av not herder."

'^ Come," said Arkwright, starting to
his feet, '^ give me your hand : you want
my services to follow this Vincent Dare-court
and his wife to the death ? "

'^ Simple enos whin their credit an'
money's gon."

'« Very well, I will undertake this for
you, Brien."

'^ Bravo!"

^* Yes, and more on one condition,"
continued the former.

**Nayme id, Mister Arkwright."

That yon help in having 0' Grady
captured, promise this, and even to-night
the first steps shall be taken to secure the
sequestration of the Neville property."

^^ There's me fist an id, bud how am
I to begin ? Dorrington's not here now,
nor car he play wit the Outlaw a second
time."

*' Your friend kept his word by inveigling
the mad rebel to Malahide Fair,
when the officer foolishly would not adopt
my advice and have him shot at once, so,
as you are aware, 0' Grady turned the
tables on the soldiers ; but with the same
chance again, I vow that I myself will
bring him down as I would a piping finch."

^' It may be so, Mister Arkwright, yit

I can't see how ye are to git at him for
the short."

^* Merely by your telling me where Warrington
Harcourt and he used to meet."

^'At Wentworth Waste."

'^ What a horrible spot ! " exclaimed
Sir Mervyn Mervyn's factotum.

'' Didn't ye know as how 'two his
home?" asked the visitor incredulously.

That dreadful, lonely churchyard and
ruins ? "

'' The same."

'rare sou certain of this, Brien?"

"All av the people cud have told ye
so, bud bey and this ye hav id now from
his own lips ; thinking' Dorrington worcester
Vincent, he kep no sanscrit from
him av any part."

That suffices for my purpose. I will
drive off to the Castle, and arrange for
fifty picked veterans to meet me in the

morning at the fatal place, when he
must be surrounded before there is time
for escape."

'^ Thin I wish ye good luck'*
'' Success is a certainty. I will obtain
permission for these soldiers to act
upon my instructions alone, and when
we have seen the last of the disloyal
villain, I shall seek my wife, show her
this letter, and offer to take her home
again. Once I entice her back, she will
never find an opportunity of writing about
her husband to another outlaw," and the
heated speaker wrung his hands in a

menacing, resolved mood.

'^ Good day, yer honour," uttered a

meek voice as the door opened gently,

revealing the well-known, disliked form

of Dominick 0' Sullivan.

^' What seek you here, vile ruffian ? "

hoarsely demanded Arkwright

'' Strong words, sir, to an lines ould
man," returned the white-haired visitor
who had absorbed so much attention in
the French capital upon a recent occasion,
and who now stood meekly before the
dreaded middleman.

*^ You went on a long wild-goose
journey, to see Sir Mervyn Mervyn, expecting
that such wretched scruff would
be permitted to pollute his presence,"
the agent furiously aspirated.

^^ Bud, God bless him ! the landlord
did see me for all that."

*' Liar ! he did not. I have heard
from the baronet since, and your name
is not even alluded to."

^^Av course ; I'm too far below the
likes av him to be noticed, Mister
Arkwright ! "

*but I have not forgotten, as will
be proved to your cost, and I only waited

our meeting to say that forthwith I shall
evict you and every one belonging to
you, kith and kin, driving the lot into
the highway, without house or home."

^^ Sure I'll they to pay ye, sir, as I
hav always don — "

^'I want revenge, not money ; and when
every other tenant feels my hand they may
blame you, nor will I pause in the process of
vengeance until you fall wholly exhausted."

^' Quite right," jubilant chorused the
Harcourt deputy, '^ av this is the vagabond
who had the impertinence to interfere
wit the landlord. What consent,
ye old malefactor ! "

'' I know ye, Mister Flynn," was
patiently responded, '' yer a grate body,
now, bud there wor a day whin av ye sed
has as much, I'd hav drawn ye through
the muddy bed av the dirty Polka."

In another instant Arkwright had

seized the aged man by the neck, muttering
with passionate fervour, —

Down on your knees, and humbly
beg pardon of that gentleman," pointing
to Brien Flynn, ^* or this moment I will
raze your holding to the ground, leaving
neither stick nor stone to tell where a
human being once had dwelt."

^^ Sir Marvyn Marvyn — " began the
tenant, whom the agent again assailed,
shouting, —

** Perish both you and the landlord !
I will do as I please."

*' Base scoundrel, you shall not," was
peremptorily rejoined, and the young
baronet strode into the apartment.

Chapter XV.

"The wood my home , the silent moss-grown
grave my cheerless couch, the purblind owl
and sinuous ivy my only mates, while the
wayward shadows from out these ruined
walls light me to my lonely pillow. The
voice of God against me, and the face of
humanity turned aside at the mere sound
of my name, shut out from all that is
kindred in nature, as though my very
form would set the war-dogs of hell loose
to track me to a merciless revenge.

'^ Turn I east or west, north or south,
the warnings of my enemies everywhere
confront me, each verdant space, swelling

stream, or scented meadow being shunned
by the Ample on whom Society has
traced in ensanguined hues, ' Thou shalt
not Hve.'

*^ The stars by night no longer sparkle
in their diamond-studded firmament as
was their wont when first I sought forget -
fulness in gazing on their giddy height,
nor does the moon smile as of yore with a
light that made me content to look from
the mound on which I tried to repose contemplating
these memorials of the past,
replete with busy undying suggestions.

^' Once I had a home blessed by a
parent's smile which failed not in my infantile
grief, but broadened and quickened
at the thought of my tiny, unreal apprehensions
; if the shadow of a care hovered
o'er me, was not her maternal benevolence
already at hand to brush aside the uprising
fear ? and who but a mother could

have understood the frenzy of my heart's
delight, when from her first remembered
illness she grew well again?

^' Then, as before, we traced the flight
of years not by inroads of iron time but
by the additions it brought to our stores
of mutual happiness, the only solid joy
ever known in this otherwise arid world.

^* Now came an evil blight, when discord
rose darkly up and an unholy strife
was waged, dividing heart from heart, — ;
mother from son, — since that fell hour
we have been mortally sundered, I never
looked upon her face again."

0' Grady bent his head and wept,
while all that was sympathetic in real
and inorganic nature seemed to become
augmented at the picture of supreme
misery thus presented.

'* Then," he dreamily resumed, ^' begin
the black records of my life — a prison —

VOL. II. 16

the scaffold, and my emancipation by a
grateful Saxon, wife of an abased Celt.
Again, I stand before my childhood's
mansion of bliss, but no one welcomes the
fallen patriot, nay the voice of the stranger
warns the fugitive away — he is unknown.
With the incentive of a public reward
stimulating some wretch to saturate himself
in my blood, I flee to this my future
home, Wentworth Waste ; here I hold
my undisturbed and unattended vigils,
save when the weird aerial fiends of the
night crawl up from the vapour-clad
wood, to lull me with their silvery mists.
'' Yet oh, why am I consigned to this
warfare which mocks that society, arrayed
against me ? In all things I have acted
from a true conviction and sense of honors
heaven as a witness to my patriotism,
ay," he proceeded with intense
earnestness, ^' in the cause of Ireland, my

sunny hopes of a bright exalted future have
been blanched and withered, but it is nobler
thus to die, sanctified in falling, than live
a slave ! "

Sitting on that semi-decayed landmark
of some departed one, the Outcast buriedhis
face in his hands, while wearily oscillating
to and fro, unmindful of all passing around.
Suddenly he jumped to his feet as a hand
was lightly laid upon his shoulder, and
turned to behold Lucy Harcourt standing
nervously before him.

^^ Good morning, Mr. O'O'Grady," she said
with a warm smile of interest, ^' I hope
you are well, and will understand the cause
of my anxiety to see you ? "

^' I dare not be unwell," he responded,
easily returning her graceful salutation,
^' whenever illness robs me of the power of
action, my winding-sheet is being smoothed
and folded ; but I forget," handing

J ^-^"j

her a parcel, '' here are the original letters
upon which this treasonable charge against
your husband is founded."

'' Oh ! astonishment ! How did you
become possessed of them ? " she inquired
eagerly.

^' By paying a personal visit to his
Excellency the Lord-lieutenant," he
answered satirically.

^' The Lord-lieutenant!" was echoed
in amazement.

'' Yes, I called upon the Viceroy, hoping
in some way to become informed of the
names of our mutual enemies, and, as you
see, his Excellency was so considerate as
to put me in possession of the only existing
evidence against the accused."

^' But surely permission was not given
you to remove them ? " she interrogated
in innocent surprise.

*^ Madam ! rest content. I did not wait

for the vicegerent's honoured sanction,"
smiling ; '^ however, this is digressing ; let
us now consider what is the best course
to pursue."

^' Thank you, Mr. 0' Grady, for reminding
me that there is no time to lose ; have
you read these papers ? "

'' I have."

^^ Then what is your opinion respecting
them ? "

^^ That it is a skilfully constructed frau(J,
founded on some unguarded communications
of mine which fell into the hands
of organized bandits."

^' What do you kindly advise ? "

'^ As no implicating testimony can now
be adduced, I would urge the accused to
return, and demand a public inquiry into
the nefarious scheme."

'* Shall we seek them forthwith ? "

Certainly, Mrs. Harcourt, recall them

at once, and circumvent these plotters ere
they know of our signal gain. I am at
your command with pleasure when we
learn where your husband is to be found."

*^0h,*' she exclaimed eagerly, ''I received
avoluminousletterlast night, wherein
he states the resolve of himself and
Eustace Dillon to abide among the fishermen
on the Arran Islands until we communicate
with them and concert a futile
line of action."

^^ Then, dear madam, my suggestion is
that we post to Galway, and bring them
back without delay."

*' I am ready this moment," she warmly
affirmed ; " when will it suit your convenience
to come, Mr. O'O'Grady?"

'sat nightfall."

*' Oh, pray say earlier, or it will be
one day lost."

The Outlaw may list to the hoot of

the night-bird or the boding of the sea-mew,
but he dare not look upon that sun
above except by stealth and in solitude,"
was solemnly answered.

/^ Ah me ! when is your cruel punishment
to have an end?"

'* When from a gibbet I dangle for the
delectation of the bloodhounds who are
hunting me down," he uttered fiercely,
adding gently, '^ Mrs. Harcourt, nightfall
I will wait you at the Gap of Donnycarnej,
Peruse these documents, and form your
own judgment upon the extent and
method of the plot. Now I must depart ;
my personal safety may be already compromised
by tarrying," and raising her hand
to his lips he lightly touched it, repeating,
*^ Nightfall, at the Gap of Donnycarney."

"The Gap of Donnycarney," she echoed,
retiring from his sight.

The Recluse of the Waste looked in the

direction whither that young wife had
gone, musing aloud, ''If I only compass
your happiness, I shall care hut little how
soon my end has come."

*rit has come now," was furiously
yelled close to his ear, and turning he
beheld fifty regular troops, their pointed
guns almost touching him, while in their
midst, livid with passionate revenge,
stood Eohert Arkwright, wringing his
hands in a frenzy of excitement.

'' Kill me and I will be glad, but you
shall never take me alive," said the Outlaw
in a lofty imperious strain, his face
lit by a contemptuous smile while calmly
surveying the many confronting him.

'' Surrender," roared Arkwright*'

Haste and shoot me down, I will not
surrender," was fearlessly rejoined, throwing
up his arms and exposing that broad
swelling breast as the unfaltering target.

The agent did not want to have him
summarily executed, longing for the spectacle
of a hanging orgie, besides there
were five hundred guineas to be gained
by capturing the rebel alive ; thus half
soothingly he observed, —

** Give yourself up quietly, and I will
commend you to the gracious mercy of
the government."

^' Much as I despise your threats I
spurn your clemency more ; greet my
heart with a score of welcome bullets,
but until then the first who attempts to
place a dishonouring hand upon me shall
feel the force of a man's resistance,"
vociferated the Outcast, drawing in his
arms and balancing himself like a lion
crouched for a terrific spring.

'' This absurdity must have an end,"
Arkwright retorted, observing the dissatisfied
looks of the listeners, adding asa

final palaver, 'yield quietly, and state
your own conditions."

"To whom, pray?" O'O'Grady asked
coldly.

To me," answered the agent with
rapidity.

An odd light stole into the captive's
piercing eyes as he said complaisantly, —
I will name my terms to you, sir, in
private."

Why not declare them openly before
these soldiers ? "

''A useless question to put. to him
whom you know to be a gentleman,"
uttered with hauteur.

For how long do you wish to confer
with me ? "

Two minutes."

"Where?"

Anywhere," continuing, " that place
will suffice, and it is nearest," pointing

to the ruin outside of which they were
standing.

^^ Are you armed ? "

^* Yes, I always carry pistols."

'^ Then deliver them up, and I shall
listen to you therein for two minutes."

^^I will abandon nothing," O'O'Grady
determinedly announced, *but there,"
and instantly he blew the contents of
the firearms into the air, returning them
to his belt. ♦

^'That will do," exclaimed his satisfied
antagonist; '^ but remember I am likewise
provided, and in case of treachery
the soldiers will surround you."

'bah! you know how little I regard
yourself or your puny weapons, but to
assise tranquillity post the escort close
up to the walls, then you need not fear."

''I fear nothing," avowed Arkwright
with a jaunty air, which, however, was not

sustained, as, almost immediately after, he
pleaded, '* give me yom word of honour
that you mean no treachery."

'what, the word of honour of an outlaw?"
laughed the rebel with severity;
proceed to the gaol," he continued. '' I
will bandy words no further."

Sir Mervyn Mervyn's agent was now
in this dilemma, that the soldiers by
their looks plainly indicated belief in
the fairness of the prisoner's offer, and
that rejection of it would be attributed
to cowardice.

** Go on," he said, his face growing
white and yellow alternately. '' I will
join you, but recollect, I am prepared
for resistance, and that my followers
shall surround the place to prevent
your escape."

With a haughty mien, and a look of
withering contempt towards the agent.

under which the latter visibly winced,
'Grady entered the abbey attended by
this deputy, the detachment guarding
every aperture or means of exit, listening
anxiously with bated breath.

Some few seemingly interminable moments
had already elapsed, and the escort
were beginning to look at each other
mutely in silent, concerned surprise, when
a deep hollow thud sounded upon their
ears, accompanied by a faint shriek, ana
resonant mocking voice reverberated
throughout the edifice proclaiming, —

'' Robert Wainwright is the Outlaw's
prisoner. Ha ! ha ! ha ! "

Instantly the soldiers swarmed in and
out of the ruins, through every disused
corner or forsaken spot, each hollow in
the crumbling walls, the floor, the trees,
but all was still as the surrounding
haunts of the dead, and the exhaustive

yet fruitless search being at length
abandoned, they departed, solitude and
desolation once more reigning supreme
at Went worth Waste.

END OF VOL. II.

OF THE
U N I Verity
or Ill Noise

V.3

OB,

THE OUTLAW OF WENTWORTH WASTE.

VOL. III.

OR,

THE OUTLAW OF WENTWOETH WASTE.

By henry ESMOND,

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. III.

JLoiiuon:
MOXON, SAUNDERS, AND CO.,

22, HENRIETTA STREET, CO VENT GARDEN, W.C.

1880.

\ All rights reserved']

A LIFE'S HAZARD;

OR,

THE OUTLAW OF WENTWOETH WASTE.

Chapter I.

'^ I can't fathom it," said the captain of
the good ship the " Amber Wave," bound
from Liverpool to New York ; '' these
Irish baffle me. First we are told to lookout
for suspicions craft, and especially
two men who have escaped from prison ;
these we fail to fall in with, but instead
we tackle a pair of somebodies, taking
them on board, when they immediately
run foul of all our reckonings, one dying,
the other offering any money to get away
and leave us to bury the dead."
VOL. m. 1

The foregoing remarks were addressed
to the first officer, who, with the captain,
was doing a regulation stroll along the
poop before turning in for the night.

^* They are evidently of the well-to-do
class, and must have suffered terribly
before we took them in tow," suggested
the subordinate to his superior.

*^ Yes, I pity her ; but why does he
drag astern, while although unable to run
many more knots this side of the channel,
she keeps every sail set to get spliced
before slipping her cable ? "

*' You think she won't live, sir?"

^'Not much longer," was decisively
answered.

'rit is strange to hail a pilot when
running into the last port," musingly
observed the younger man.

'eyes," replied the captain, "but she
seems to be a fair sailer after all, and, as

she says, they were to be unbraced at
once ; why does he turn away now, leaving
her to lurch out of her scupper alone ?
Upon my word," he vehemently added,
*^ in the morning I will jam him close in
the wind until I know more of the landshark,"
whereupon both sought the repose
of their respective cabins.

The "Amber Wave " was a full-rigged
ship, having a large cargo of merchandise,
and very few passengers. She was now
several days out, but with head winds,
shortened sails, and battened holds, made
little way, rolling about amid the giddy
waves like a massive, huge tub.

All the outward vessels of the day were
charged to watch the seashore of Ireland
for suspicious craft, which signified treason
or smuggling, and to permit of no
passengers being taken on board who
could not satisfactorily account for themselves,

it often happening that these slow
sailing-ships were accosted by a small
boat, and a stranger sent on deck, who,
on payment of the passage-money, was
gladly welcomed, although the person
might have been a fugitive from justice.

While off the dangerous Cawnpore Point
at Wexford, the *' Amber Wave " being
hove to in a raging tempest, the tlu-ee
masts and gaff topsail of a water-logged
barque came in sight, hoisting signals of
distress, which were immediately responded
to by Captain Nicholson, a fearless
old salt.

*^ Man the boat," he ordered resolutely,
^' and pull away, my lads."

*ray, ay, sir," rose up cheerily from
the willing Jack-tar, and already the pinnace
went ploughing through the ruthless
waves on the dangerous enterprise.

The sea was dashing tumultuously

around the derelict, driving lifelessly
through the watery element.

That brave crew however, would not forsake
her, but pointed out to their intended
rescuers the forms of a young man and a
woman, who, in hopeless wretchedness
and despondency, looked on at what was
passing, powerless to interfere.

'^ Height ! bad cargo," muttered the
boatswain, adding aloud, " where do they
hail from? "

'' Don'tknow,mate, some days ago saved
them from drowning. She can't live, take
them on board, pay you well," answered
from stentorian lungs.

'make fast the hawser and move forward
if you can," was replied, the pinnace
being impelled alongside the floating wreck.
The process of getting the castaways into
the boat was long and dangerous, one of
them having to be slung almost roughly

from the davits in cocoa matting. However,
this was safely accomplished, and
they reached the *' Amber Wave " after a
heavy pull of the eight steady united oars.

The kindly nature of Captain Nicholson
at once revealed itself, providing the
strangers with every item of comfort
that his vessel could possibly yield, while
postponing the usual questions, waiting
for a favourable opportunity to' receive
an account of their misadventure.

Despite the adverse weather, baffling
every calculation, the two wanderers grew
better, he of the sterner sex especially, but
the captain was rudely shocked on the day
when we first read of him to be summoned
to the bedside of the recovering lady, who
suddenly announced her conviction that
she was dying, and that she wanted him
to perform the ceremony of marriage
between herself and her rescued companion,

even while yet she lived, as they
themselves had resolved, having been long
betrothed. To the officer's reply that it
was only in very rare instances he exercised
such unusual functions, and that
he hoped she would be better when the
*^roughish weather settled a bit," she
answered pathetically, —

*what more extreme case have you
ever found than mine ? I cannot possibly
survive many hours."

And when the bluff old sailor closely
regarded her, the unusual deathlike expression
of that face which he had not
observed previously seemed to justify the
estimate she had formed as to her duration
of life.

'^ It is the love of years, do not refuse a
dying girl'* was so piteously urged that
Captain Nicholson left the darkened cabin,
resolved on complying with her hallowed

request, and sought out the object of her
affections, to arrange for the nuptial proceeding
; but the answer of this gentleman
proved the reverse of satisfactory.

^* Yes ; they were engaged, although not
for years, and he remembered a conditional
marriage project, but he could not seethe
wisdom of being wed to a dying woman ;
better to postpone ifc, she might live after
all," formed the gist of his observations to
the master of the '' Amber Wave," whose
opinion thereupon we have just recorded,
while walking the poo^D with the chief mate
preparatory to seeking the oblivion of his
pillow.

That night wore on tranquilly, the good
ship making amends for past delay,
although in so doing she veered slightly
out of her reckoning, drifting westward ;
but the subsidence of the long prevailing
storm was the theme for mutual congratulations,

which extended even to the exhausted
lady in her cosy berth. At
breakfast it was noticed that the strange
gentleman spoke less than ever, and
seemed more reserved, although at all
times his manner to the crew had been
taciturn and repelling.

The foot of the subordinate became
impinged upon that of his superior under
the table, who, looking up to ascertain its
cause, understood the wink, mutely directing
him to watch the passenger playing
with his unused knife, while eagerly looking
upon the well-supplied, untasted plate.

The captain answered meaningly with
knowing expressive eyes, saying aloud, —

'^ We are in for a spell of fine weather."

Yes," observed his chief, " the wind
has hauled round, and stands to force
some quick sailing.' '

'where are we now?"

This was the first time the stranger
had spoken during the repast.

^^ On board ship," quickly replied the
captain, laughing.

The questioner smiled also, resuming, —

'' That I know, but I meant to ask
what part of the coast are we near? "

^' Gal way, sir."

I will give you five hundred guineas
to place me on land," the previous speaker
exclaimed with an energy of passion and
hopefulness unexpected and unlocked for.

The son of Neptune was very composed
as he answered, —

^' There is one condition alone on which
I will put you ashore for a fifth of the
sum offered."

"Name it!"

'^ With yom' wife, only."

'but she cannot survive," was observed
in a tone of half triumph.

^' She will die easier there than on board
ship," curtly retorted the aged oiHcer.

^' A dead woman is not much of an acquisition
anywhere," the unknown uttered
sententiously.

^^ And a false living husband is but too
often a shameless, undying scar on the
memory of a good, honest wife."

The captain now warmly disliked the
calculating, silent young man before him,
and heavenly following up his last words
added, —

*^ I will keep at sea three months
before we make New York, if it will
prevent your leaving that girl to die
among strangers."

^* Place me on land, I will take her
with me, and still give you five hundred
guineas."

'* The offer sounds fair, and this moment
we will ask her to accept it, provided she

is able to be sent on shore," though the
honest sailor inwardly thought, " I would
not trust the lubber while he could put
his hand into his pocket and withdraw
it again."

The ship held on at a rattling speed,
cutting through the low swells which
slunk away at her approach, while the
bright rays of the brighter sun were reflected
from the manifold ruddy objects
on the receding shore.

They now entered the invalid's apartment,
the bluff salt taking the patient's
hand, who seemed wan and ghastly,
saying,—

You will be better, my dear, and I shall
put you ashore in less than two hours."

Then," she sadly sighed, " you will
not marry us," casting a look of pleading
force towards her fiance who stood hat
in hand calmly watching her.

^' I would," embarrassingly observed the
captain, *'bnt "

^*It will be better to wait until we
land," interposed the young man.

^^ Oh! take me to sea, sir, and hide mein
the deep wave," exclaimed the failing
lady.

An almost preternatural silence followed
the unwonted appeal, during which the
bronzed sailor deeply pitied the suffering
girl for thinking of one so unwilling to
become her husband, while the latter was
cautiously communing within himself.

^^ Better to undergo the farce, and leave
her to die, than imperil heaven knows
what tossing about at the mercy of this
confounded fellow and his ship."

"Fanny, are you content to remain onboard
trying to recover while continuing
the voyage, sooner than risk being moved
now, provided this gentleman unites us ? "

*^ Make me the happy wife you promised,
and resign me to my destiny," was responded
in very weak tones.

'' You will proceed to America, and
permit of my going on shore to arrange
urgent affairs ; I shall follow you by the
very next vessel."

^' I will go to my grave content when weare
married; it is all I ask."

captain," the stranger demanded ina
decided tone, "perform the service."

'^ It is an unnatural contract," thought
the honest mariner, " but she will soon beat
rest, apart from the scoundrel."

Ship ahoy ! " was now heard from the
side of the vessel.

"What is the matter?" shouted the
mate, jumping on to the taffrail, as a small
boat came rowing in their wake.

"Where are ye bound for?" rose up
from the oarsmen.

^'New York." '

^' That'll do — there's two gentleman
wants to travel be ye, hould an till they
git up."

** I can't admit any one without the
captain's permission."

^' Shurethin tell himthey'rerayl quality:
wan a clergyman' an' t'other a barrister,
an sudden business over the father."

^^ Holloa! what's amiss?" inquired the
master of the ^' Amber Wave," standing
at the cabin door of the dying bride.

'^A clergyman and another individual
want to pay their expenses to New York,"
answered the mate.

'heaven be thanked," thought the
lady inwardly, while Captain Nicholson
exclaimed aloud, —

'' If one is a minister I shall give botha
free voyage," softly muttering, 'rit
will be worth it and more to take this

contraband-looking marriage off my
hands."

*' Show up the passengers," he added,
*' and detain the boat, some one may go
back in her."

The two new-comers advanced with the
obvious air and appearance of gentlemen,
he of the white tie bowing to the captain,
who remained outside the compartment,
saying, "I thank you for your courtesy,
allow me to introduce myself, the Eev^
Eandall Massey, of St. Jedburgh's,
Galway, and my friend, Mr. Facets,
who accompanies me to America, on a
mission of vital importance."

The answer of the commander of the
^* Amber Wave," was agreeably sufficient,
as saluting the arrivals, he observed, —

'^ Gentlemen, you are welcome. Send
the luggage on board."

^' Captain, pray do not permit the boat

to return yet," entreated the invalid
earnestly from within the sick chamber.

'* That reminds me ! " exclaimed her
auditor, starting eagerly, *you, sir,"
addressing the man of divinity, shave
arrived most opportunely to render a
signal service to me."

^' Which I shall be very happy to do,"
was suavely replied, accompanied by a
grave depression of the head.

'^ Then you and your friend will please •
to follow me into this berth," observed the
old mariner, leading the way to the hueless
bride. '' This young lady is dangerously
ill, in fact, I fear past all hope of
recovery. Her betrothed is there standing
opposite, and he even now wishes to be
married, that thus in death they may
join hearts long fondly united in life."

*^ But — I — I cannot," responded the new
voyager in an alarmed voice.

VOL. III. 2

** You will excuse my friend," promptly
interposed the companion of the reverend
gentleman, '' but the situation is so novel
he hardly comprehends it. However, he
shall marry them ; " adding in an undertone,
"hesitate, and we are lost."

Give me a moment's consideration,"
pleaded the clergyman, "you are all
strangers, which perplexes me," and, leaning
on his associate's arm, they left the
cabin, returning, however, in an incredibly
short time, when the ceremony proceeded,
sans the usual habiliments, unavoidable
in the unwonted emergency.

The bride of death looked pale and wan,
but composed to a wonderful degree. Her
future spouse also appeared calm, but the
celebrant suffered under some ungovernable
mental influence, until strength, when
the names of the contracting parties were
given out as being respectively Fanny

Chalmers and Vincent Harcourt, he could
proceed no further, but reeled back like
a drunken idiot.

*' My friend is unfortunately subject to
attacks of hysteria," interposed the ^'bar-
rather," ^^but he as quickly recovers, '
whereupon whispering in his companion's
ear, —

'' Eemember your wife ; save her ;" and
certainly the stricken officiant recovered
marvellously, when the marital rite continued
to its close, the formal certificate
stood signed '^ Fanny Chalmers, Vincent
Harcourt, William Nicholson, the Ev.
Eandall Massey, and Arthur Facets."

As this document was tendered to the
now married lady, she sat up immediately,
and, clasping the clergyman's hand, wrung
it with actual violence, saying, —

Heaven bless you for this kindness,"
adding at once, '^ I feel so much better that

I shall undertake the journey to land
with my dearest husband," and instantly
springing from the bed, she stood up
erect, ready dressed for the occasion.

Her consort sunk into a chair with
abject terror, while the old sailor held on
by the bunk, the minister and his friend
rushing out in actual alarm.

A few moments afterwards the two
latter were passed by the united pair, the
gentleman pale and downcast, while that
late seemingly dying girl looked well and
confident, walking towards the boat amid
the wonderment of their silent but astonished
observers.

The Benedick had already taken his
seat therein, and his wife was about to
follow, when, on the top of the gangway,
the clergyman impulsively sprang to her
side, speaking in a low solemn voice,
unheard by all except herself.

For an instant she swayed as if disposed
to tumble into the sea, but in another
her normal composure had returned, softly
answering through her gleaming teeth, —

^* Sir, I am the sole arbitress of my
own actions."

The yawl was now rapidly rowed away
from the vessel, and approached the bold
headland, while every eye on board the
^' Amber Wave " was centred on the
departing ** Bride of the deep."

CHAPTER II.

At last the speedy fly-boat moves from

lier berth at Loadstone, and under the

influence of these taro gaily clad juvenile

jocks and the anti-Derbjdte bony-looking

horses they bestride, who are nevertheless

good safe movers, away she goes, merrily

laving in the sluggish waters of the Royal

Canal, which flows through a magnificent

richly wooded country, lying in calm, soft

grandeur between Dublin and Longford —

its extreme points at both ends. In the

«' Fly " the usual devilry, mirth, noise, and

waste of time was indulged ; but Lucy

Darecom't sat on this night pensive and

reflective, beside her equally retiring companion
0' Grady, wondering why they
could all seem so happy, if perhaps
foolish, while she grew heartily ill at
the page of trouble in her day-book of
life — which was only just opened and
not even read.

The Outlaw's thoughts were widely different
; the one active consideration with
him being, are these easily influenced people
representative of their fellows, or are they
susceptible of that foundation of solid
discernment and self-control which alone
endows man with the free consciousness
of personal superiority ? Remaining thus
fully absorbed and preoccupied, they
spoke not, but each felt that the scene
of jollification was deepening into one of
rancour and possible strife at the card-table
opposite, wherefrom high-sounding,
unusual words had been already heard,

which was the more surprising, two of
the players being ladies, opposed to whom
were foi* inflamed-looking members of
the opposite sex.

Several unavailing attempts had been
made to subdue the apprehended cmeute
as the play proceeded and the deposits
became larger, but despite all counsel or
counter admonition on it went, the gentlemen
growing more flushed and heated,
while these two impassable calm partners,
mother and daughter, uniquely transferred
the proceeds of each round into the elder
female's pocket ; and although declining
to bet, no matter how insignificant an
amount, they were always ready to increase
the stakes, in every instance securing
the game.

The losers were not the only ones who
supposed that this extravagant run of
good luck must change ; but no, they

kept on pitilessly winning, winning,
winning.

There was another, however, who with
folded arms and a disdainful smile looked
keenly from a distance, freely imbibing
all that was passing — indeed, more than
some opined.

0' Grady growing weary of the discordant
spectacle, said, —

^* Mrs. Harcourt, will you remain or
accompany me outside for a stroll ? "

'* Thank you," she gently replied ; '^ I
am safe here ; besides I would like to see
who is victor in such an extraordinary
contest, which cannot endure much
longer."

'' Then I shall seek the solitude of the
external world for a little," he observed,
and bowing left her.

Lucy Harcourt now became aware
that the stern, inflexible eyes of the contemplative

young man closely followed
the figure of an old military-looking gentleman
approaching her, who with perfect
good grace assumed the seat just vacated
by the Outlaw, but in her preoccupation
of watching the game Lucy soon forgot
such a trivial incident.

After continuing thus — how long she
knew not — her attention was distracted by
that grey-hated neighbour remarking, —
'^ Excuse me, miss, yet upon my word
it is quite a feast for my eyes to note how
earnestly you observe that never-ending
system of winning."

Lucy blushed slightly while answering, —

'^ Indeed, sir, I have been regarding

it as closely as the distance permits."

^'May I inquire if you play the game?"

^' Certainly not," spoken decisively ;

*^ nor could I even have believed ladies

indulged in such a pastime."

'^ Ah, my good girl, you know very little
of the inner lives of some who are looked
up to and accepted as models in the best
circles of society."

''I regret it," she observed, 'ras being
unfeminine and questionable, although the
novelty has chained me here against my
better self for so long, and — I must now
retire," rising.

But intuitively feeling that he was
the cause of her leaving, the very gentlemanly
old man bowed most politely,
saying apologetically, —

Pray overlook my unintended interference,"
he smiled, " which your interested
manner betrayed me into so —
au revoir

Finding that she was again alone, Lucy
Harcourt resumed her chair just as it
became evident that the climax between
the suitors for the hand of fortune in that

speculation and those who could not lose
lb had been reached.

*' Damnation ! " exclaimed one of the
quartette, his last guinea exhausted,
which these females had just added to
their previous gains, 'i'll wager my
existence, it's a downright swindle."

The lady gamesters sat erect and unconcerned,
although the subject of such
dreadful suspicion, it being the opinion
of more than their opponents that it was
very anomalous how they continued to
win indefinitely.

The stolid, contemptuous indifference
wherewith the losers were regarded by
the successful pair now leaving the table,
maddened the one who had already spoken,
and who now thundered, —

'' I'll have my honest money back, you
double-dyed swindlers ! "

'hear! hear!" approvingly followed

from the other three victims and a few
zealous sympathizers.

There was now no visible means of
escape for Lucy, who became greatly
alarmed, all the doors being blocked by
eager spectators both from within and
without ; whereupon, believing that the
disturbance would bring back her protector,
she resumed her late position
nervously awaiting his retm^n.

The elder of the two accused females
drew herself up imperiously, and looking
scornfully around inquired, —

*^ Is there no one here who will protect
us ladies from vulgar insult by low-bred,
insignificant brawlers ? " ^

On which the very gentlemanly-looking
military old man stepped forth with
alacrity, observing, —

^' Madam, allow me to assist you in
this deplorable misunderstanding."

^* We want our money ; we'll not be
robbed," was hoarsely retorted.

'' Accord me a moment's patience,"
pleaded the mediator, " and I will endeavour
to unravel the mistake."

*^ Are you anything to them?" suspiciously
demanded.

^' I have not had the pleasure of seeing
these ladies before," he answered with a
gesture and tone indignantly repelling the
doubt implied in the question.

'' Then listen to the gentleman," urged
several voices, the justice of which advice
was admitted by all.

At this moment the possessed, thoughtful
stranger, whom Lucy had observed watching
the very gentlemanly military old man,
now advanced cautiously to where she
still sat, and in a whisper said, —

''Be guarded; see that you have lost
nothing*' and passed onwards.

For an instant the young girl mused
upon these odd words, but almost as soon
she reflected, ^^ He was speaking to himself,
and not to me, or he would have
remained to explain; but how I wish
Mr. 0' Grady were here."

^* You undertook to play the game ? "
continued the benign intermediary.

** Yes, but not to be cheated," one
wrathfully attested.

'that is not just," proceeded the
peacemaker ; ' ' fortune cannot be controlled,
and the idea is impossible that
you could or would be unfairly deprived
of your money."

'^ No more of this mystification — we'll
have it back! we'll have it back!" was
jointly shouted.

Hereupon Lucy felt greatly frightened,
starting to her feet, when, oh, great
heavens ! the papers for Vincent were

gone. Wild and maddened she put her
hands to her temples, the momentous
words of the stranger flashing upon her
in all their gravity — '' Be guarded ; see
that you have lost nothing."

^' Where is he now? Oh how can I
tell him ? " she asked herself, while therein
the distance, remote from every one,
but still intently discounting all that was
passing, he confidently stood.

Lucy was speedily beside him, when,
anticipating her errand, he asked, —

^* What is missing ? "

Oh, sir," she answered vehemently,
*' the very ransom of my husband."

^' What ? one so young to speak of the
ransom of a husband," was echoed in
kind, subdued words.

Alas, it is even so, sir, and my whole
prospect of happiness is centred in the
recovery of those stolen papers."

^' I sincerely sympathize with you, and
will help to regain the property if it be
possible."

^' But you can assist me, else why
speak these kind words of caution ? " the
interesting applicant looked pleadingly
into his face.

My assistance is at your service, and
I cautioned you because I knew of, the
necessity for doing so. Pray resume your
chair, and depend on my aid."

As Lucy turned, going back to her late
station, the stranger inquired, —

May I ask if the parcel is open or
sealed ? "

^' Sealed."

*^ That is lucky, no enclosures can have
yet been abstracted. One word more, did
it bear any superscription ? "

*' Yes, it was addressed for the Honhle.
Vincent Harcourt.' "

VOL. III. 3

She stopped abruptly, turning colourless,
murmuring in broken accents, —

**I have betrayed my husband."

But the unknown gentleman had already
graspedherhands,his countenance beaming
withmuchjojrfulsurpriseashe proceeded, —

^^What! Mrs. Harcourt, are you the
wife of my old friend Vincent, son and
heir of Lord Harcourt ? ' '

'' Yes."

^^A singular circumstance indeed;
married to him, whom I have not met
for years. But we will talk it over by-and-by.
Be content, you shall have the
papers and one very influential hand to
aid in all that can benefit yourself and
your husband."

Ere recovering from her astonishment,
he retired saying, —

** Do not leave the seat until I come
to you."

By the time Lucy regained her position
the climax in the scene of discord
had been reached, while the fly-boat was
being guided into the usual halting-place.

Retreating before their irate aggrieved
opponents, the mother and daughter
gamesters slowly but surely approach to
where Lucy Harcourt was seated ; there
being brought to bay, having reached
the limit of the saloon, its last window
standing exactly above her chair.

The threats and looks of violence became
insupportable, although the very
gentlemanly military old man still kept
between the rival parties, but nature had
grown infirm in the parent, who at last
feebly uttered, —

"I have not one penny; you can
search me."

A fiery yell of baffled execration followed
this announcement, the quarto of

defeated players rushing at the now
trembling exhausted female, bending low
behind Lucy, and one of these implacable
antagonists had actually raised his hand
as though to strike at the prostrate form,
when, like the whiz from a cannon shot,
the casement was burst through over her
head, and the four belligerent gamblers
lay stretched upon the floor, while the
Outlaw exclaimed, —

'down, mongrels of men that would
dare to assail a woman ! "

But, alas, the picket, who had pursued
him when the fly-boat touched the low j betty ,
already formed around, encompassing the
avenger on every side, whereupon the very
gentlemanly military old man in a harsh,
biting tone of triumph screamed, —

*^ Soldiers, give no quarter ! arrest the
notorious "

'hold, Colonel B !" vociferated

the strange unknown friend of Lucy's
husband, who now, as promised, stood
by her side, and whom she had besought
to save 0' Grady's life. ^^ We have met
before," the interrupter continued, ^' and
I demand the liberation of this lady's
companion," pointing to Lucy, "^ the restoration
of the documents purloined
from her, and the money which these two
persons," indicating the female gamesters,
^^ have falsely acquired at cards."

Godmother and daughter looked piteous
in their degraded state, while the very gentlemanly
military old man tottered to the
side of the young dictator, muttering,
^' Grant me a moment in private," and
wonderingly all beheld the pair retire out
of hearing. Even the Outlaw appeared
interested in the odd proceeding.

*' Oh ! spare us for the sake of our child,"
pleaded the very gentlemanly old man.

'' This time I will, but on the next occasion
I shall expose you and them at every
hazard. Eemember our last meeting in
the Rue Saint Thomas du Louvre. I saved
you then under a promise to abandon this
career of swindling, although but now I
Watched you, while standing behind the
chairs of your dupes, signify to your wife
and daughter the cards to play."

'' The money and papers will be returned,
but do not persist in the surrender
of the renowned prisoner. Five hundred
guineas are offered for his "

*^ Stay," was interrupted; '^ I know
nothing whatever of him, I have promised
that he shall be free, and my word must
be redeemed."

They now returned to the anxious
crowd, when the very gentlemanly old
man, in broken accents, said, —

Soldiers, shoulder arms and march to

your quarters ; there is a grievous mistake.
Here are the papers, madam," delivering
to Lucy Harcourt the prized documents.
^^This is the proceeds of the card-playing,"
taking the money from his pocket, and
placing it on the table. One alone noticed
how dexterously the specie had been
passed from wife to husband. '^ You, sir,"
turning to 0' Grady, *^ are free, and I
deeply apologize for the unwitting error of
arresting you for another," accompanied
by a profound salute, *^ knowing what I
now do from this gentleman. Sir Mervyn
Mervyn," indicating Lucy's new friend.

'' Sir Mervyn devil ! " muttered the
chagrined retiring picket, biting their
lips. ^' The Colonel and his precious lot
have been up to their old tricks. Through
it he lost the post of Aide-de-camp to the
Lord-lieutenant, and now he has saved
the Outlaw!"

CHAPTER III.

Society was not unprepared to hear of the
demise of the noble owner of Harcourt,
nor of his having declared by last will
and testament that so far as he could,
he had disinherited his son Vincent in
favour of his nephew Dorrington, who was
to succeed him in the title of Lord of
Harcourt and all in the present or future
appertaining thereunto, relying on the
Government, of which he had been a loyal
and consistent follower, to support this
nephew Dorrington's right to the aforesaid
title and possessions against the
machinations or devices of the previously-mentioned

Vincent, who, by rebellions
acts and associations had forfeited the
parental affection as well as the protection
of the laws of the realm.

The foregoing formed the gist of the
authoritative pronouncement put forth to
the world on the day of the old patrician's
death, attested as appeared on the
original document by Brien Flynn, and
Eobert Arkwright, Esquires.

One section of the community thought *
the deceased stood a bad chance of being
himself forgiven when he had thus denied
this clemency to an only son, but on the
other side it was held that the father had
performed a public duty in cutting off a
disloyal, unnatural offspring.

Brien Flynn, Esq., sat composedly in
the carved oak chair lately occupied by
Lord Harcourt, whose earthly remains
were overhead, waiting their last full-dress

sepulture. He had carefully locked the
edge-stuffed door and drawn the hand-sewn
ornamental screen thereto, the more
effectually to prevent the possibility of the
existence of any aperture through which
an eye might observe his search in each
drawer or recess, whose contents were
added to the heap of miscellanea now confronting
him. Dexterously he put aside
that which a hasty glance satisfied him
could not be of import to the cause wherein
he laboured, and it seemed astonishing
with what precision this resolution was
arrived at, having regard to the fact that
he could hardly cipher, and that whatever
he did know was the result of a
strong natural habit of perseverance.

After a couple of hours exhausted in the
process of exploration, he carefully separated
all the materials relevant from his
point of view, the remainder being returned

to their former positions with a marked
degree of exactitude.

Then he proceeded to subdivide those
which he had selected, and very soon
they were " formed into two separate
parcels, one of which was consigned to
his outer coat, the other still remaining
on the table.

^'Ha! ha!" mused the industrious middleman,
evidently pleased with the result
of his labour, ^'this I can use or not, at
will " (indicating the parcel still in view),
*bud the other wan in the overcoat 'ill
giv me enos av money to hide whenever I
like, orwhoiver gits the property, for sometime;
I think Dorrington's lost; invade
id wudn't trouble me aytherway wor id
not for Miss Chalmers, and I can't behave
she'd cut her thick out av this world till
she'd left her mark behind somehow or
other. Ili's all plane now, the ould lord's

gon, Vincent can't show his nose, an'
Dorrington has the coast clear be man's
av mesel' an Arkwright — though Arkwright
can't be found nowhere for love or
money — Sir Marvyn booked him the night
he ken an us together, an' he wasn't seen
since ; av course I don't say all I think
about his absence, the soldiers may tell
lies av they place, bud mesel' suspects he's
gon after his wife, more fool for that
same ; I saw he wor a wake kind av a
craythur, an' that's me opinion anyhow.

'what a nice thing to put yourself' down
Brien Flynn, Esquire, in the dockiemint all
the world knows av be this, or soon will,
which is the same ; Brien Flynn," (he
echoed with a laugh) '' an esquire too, ha, ha,
ha ! I cudn't hav don more av Dorrington
wor here, nothing like purcishun," was
mentally continued, "id ill shut up any
hopes av Mister Vincent or his wife, for

the raison the governing are axed to linda
hilpin hand, an' be the same stroke
'twill bring Dorrington home again wherever
he is, an make him very much obliged
to me in troth. Suppose they went down
at say, what thin (he proceeded) who' s to git
the property ? be Jabers 'tis an the cards
afore the gay's pled out I may be the
lord — not the lord I mayne but hould the
hard land, for sure be the same pin as
writ the false will and testament, layvin id to '
Dorrington, cudn't I lave id to mesel'."
Elongating his legs and sitting in an erect
posture, he complaisantly surveyed himself
as he thought, '' The idee's in me hed I'd
look a very dancing Lord Darecoort, an' avid
com' 8 to that I'll not be backward in
going' forward, an' why not to be sure ? "
He paused a moment, biting his nails, then
renewed the train of pleasant cogitation.
I hav the christ harped wit good, bud I

think I'll git id away somehow afore Dorrington
turns np, in case av danger.
Another thing, av I am forced to proclaim
myself' the rays lord, an' I'd they id av
necessary " (the brows grew heavily dark,
while his lips locked in each other),
*' what's thin all to me, how do I know
what they'll do av I giv thin the chance ?
No, Dorrington, av ye do return ye'll
found I'm not so much yer tool as ye
think ; an' av ye don't com' back, be all
that's sacred, I'll stamp me foot an the
ground in Darecoort an call it me own ;
who can prevent me, av the ould man
overhead doesn't git up to deny his handwriting',
which isn't probable ? " (smiling
facetiously), '^ an' won't the long purse in
course av time do the rest at Dublin
Castle for the title ? At all events I'll
they, sure the toss av a tin-pinny piece
'ill ind id wan way or t'other."

A sharp reverberating knock now
rudely upset his line of reasoning, and the
pleasurable exalted position into which
he had gradually worked himself in the
glow of a fervid imagination, was roughly
assailed as a second summons followed
in a louder and more decided manner, at
the same instant the handle of the lock
being vigorously turned and returned.

'' Let me in at once," ordered a female
voice from the outside.

^^Who are you?" inquired the deputy
anxiously, undoing the bolt.

^' Lady Harcourt," firmly spoken, and
before he could realize the stirring words
the door was shot open by Fanny Chalmers,
who passed him, walking straight to
the seat he had just vacated, and placing
her hand upon the documents so sedulously
arranged, she confronted Flynn,
sharply exclaiming, —

'' This is not the agent's department."

\ Oh heaven, Miss "

"Lady Dareeoui't in future, please," was
borne to his astounded ears with such a
cold possessed enunciation and manner,
that the listener dropped into a seat, his
breath coming quickly while his heart beat
faster. The occupant of the carved oak
chair was now actively perusing the several
papers contained in that angular parcel,
to all appearances oblivious of the wondering
eyes of Brien Flynn, who, undecided
which way to turn or what to do, grew
wholly beside himself, as in a meek timid
voice he inquired, —

"Are you married, ma'am?"

The possessor of the favourite seat of
the late Lord Harcourt jumped to her
feet, and in another trice stood beside the
cowering questioner, whom she held rigidly
by the coat collar, her fierce relentless eyes

seeking out his, but he felt unable to
upraise an averted face, the weight and
superiority of that determined woman
having already conquered, and well did
he realize this signal overthrow ere she
hissed into his ear, —

^' Do you mean to insult me, or shall I
send for my husband, and ask his lordship
to cast you out of doors as a base hireling
who forgets the respect due to his noble
employers ? "

^'Forgiv me, bud id is so sudden, miss."

*your ladyship," was authoritatively
dictated.

'^ Yer ladyship av course," he replied
hastily, as though it were a great relief to
get the reluctant words from off his unwilling
tongue.

She appeared mollified, and, returning
to her previous position, in a relaxed,
somewhat softened voice, suggested, —

VOL. III. 4

'^ Probably you did not measure the relevancy
of your incautious words, Flynn?"

^*I did not, yer "

'ladyship," she interposed haughtily,
adding, "you now know the form of recognition
demanded by my position as
Lady Harcourt ; let there be no further
necessity for having to remind you of
your duty."

I am obliged to yer ladyship, an' in
futhur I'll be an me hist manners."

In which event we can get on very
well, but not otherwise, now we understand
each other," followed by a significant
inclination of the head.

'^ I'll be as good as me word; yer ladyship
'11 hav no further cause to reprimand
me."

What do these papers refer to ? " was
the short pointed inquiry, motioning towards
the documents lying on the table.

The agent winced under her searching
glance, as he furtively replied, —

'^ To the property, yer ladyship."

*' But you took them from out these
drawers? " indicating the different recesses
before her.

*^I did, yer ladyship."

^' And this was the late Lord Harcourt's
library."

'' Id wor, yer ladyship ; bud I don all
me business wit his lordship here."

'' Surely you did not examine his private
communications ? "

'' No, yer ladyship."

'^ How is it, then, that I find you in possession
of these personal belongings which
are all marked private ? "

Brien Flynn felt struck dumb by the
question and the scathing look of its author.

'^ Is there no answer?"

'' Well, yer ladyship, I— I—"

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF ILUNOii>

<

^' Go on, release."

'' I thought id me duty to look after
the afifah's av the last an' present Lord
Darecoort."

'was it your duty to abstract these
several passers ? "

*what, yer ladyship ? " aghast.

'^ To pilfer from private relics of the
Dare court family ? "

*' Oh, murther an' ours, yer ladyship
doesn't mayne that I'm a robber! " half
screamed the agent, rising in his seat.

*' That is exactly what I do mean and
more," mercilessly retorted.

*^ What, yer ladyship ? " he faltered
completely overcome.

*^ That you have already stolen other
writings than these, and of greater value."

^* Oh Lord ! oh Lord 1 " was whined
piteously ; '^ don't wrong me intirely —
don't, shire I'm innishunt."

Unmindful of which she ruthlessly continued,
—

^' How long is the late Lord Harcourt
dead ? "

''A few hours, yer ladyship."

<< Were you in the Castle when he
expired ? "

^^ Yis, yer ladyship."

^' I suppose you attended to his individual
necessities before leaving the deceased
nobleman ? "

^* I did, yer ladyship."

^* Thence I presume you came direct
to the library ? ' '

**I did, yer ladyship."

^' And you have remained here since? "

'' Yis, yer ladyship."

^^ Then the missing documents are in
this room? ay, and in your possession ; no
prevarication," she loftily added, " bring
them to me."

"Oil dear, oh dear," lie feebly exclaimed,
mechanic ally moving to his overcoat,
*' are ye a human been' who can turn me
inside out as ye place ? "

''I am a human being, and I can be
humane as well ; but I shall trample on
every one who dares to oppose me," she
continued without looking towards him.
In a parchment, No. 137^ now in your
coat, is a draft on Lord Harcourt's
bankers, payable to bearer, for five thousand
guineas."

Petrified he gazed vacantly at her
bereft of power to speak or move.

Unheeding, however, she proceeded, —

^' Your intention was to convert this
warrant into gold at the first opportunity,
and add it to your other very
large gains."

Don't, for pity sake, yer ladyship,"
and groaning, he fell upon his knees before

her, wailing and wringing his hands, ashe
entreated, '^ Only giv me time, I'll
open me whole heart to ye, for sure
every thing ye say is three."

A broad smile of unconcealed triumph
still lingered upon her composed face, as
taking the folded bundle from him, she
said languidly, —

^' Resume your seat, Flynn ; I shall become
even your friend, upon certain conditions."
•
Rapidly and carefully she compared
each of the numbered papers contained in
this parcel, with the comprehensive tabulated
register before her, the latter not
being understood by the agent, although
containing the information whereby she
had so completely surprised him, and
having satisfied herself that all were
restored to their original places, she
locked each recess separately, and afterwards

the outer door of the ponderous
cabinet, putting the keys in her pocket.

Brien Flynn sat thinking what would
he not give to escape from before her
scrutinizing glance, or that he had
Dorrington Harcourt to cope with,
but, — " 'Tis evident she masters him
as she did me," he pondered; '* so av
course she knows everything."

Wheeling round in her roomy chair
she now centres all the energy of her
eyes and facial expression into one imperious
look of extreme depth and
cautiousness, slowly inquiring, —

You have not known my husband
long ? "

'eye mayne Mister ?"

^' I mean the present Lord Dare-court."


^'I beg your ladyship's pardon, av
course id is me Lord Darecoort. I hav

not known him virry long, bud hasn't his
lordship would ye every thing ? "

Not deigning to notice the question
she went on, —

'^ You were aware that Lord Dare
court's only child was Mr. Vincent ? "

**Yis, yer ladyship."

*' Why did you tell me that Mr. Dorrington
was this son of Lord Dare-court
? "

'' I thought he "

*' Avoid dissimulation ; I will permit no
trifling with truth, sir'*

The intended falsehood became choked
in the deputy's throat, who suppliantly
responded, —

'^ I'll tell ye openly, yer ladyship,
bekayze I must do so, we intended to
desayv yer ladyship."

"Both of you?"

No, not at first. I started id, an'

.afterwards Mister Dodington followed
id up."

*' What was your object, Flyun ? "

' Must I shake plainly , yer ladyship ? ' '

'' That is what I desire, sir."

*' Thin I would Mister Dorrington as
how ye wor the virry wan to make the
futhur Teddy Darecoort."

A pause ensued, but assuredly the girl
did not look displeased at what had just
been stated.

Mr. Dorrington was Lord Harcourt's
nephew," she observed somewhat abstractedly.


^'He wor, yer ladyship ; bud hasn't
his lordship would ye all this afore ? "

Again she unheeded the inquiry.

^' Flynn, have you any doubt that Mr.
Vincent is gone for ever ? "

^' None, yer ladyship."

'' May he not return ? "

*^ Av he did he'd be thrown into prison,
I've provided for all that."

'you?"

'Two me, yer ladyship."

'' But his wife is not a likely person
to surrender, besides she has large means
wherewith to prosecute their pretensions."

''Ah, that I've also turn'd upside
down," he exclaimed jubilant.

How ? "

Be gittin' the governing to sayques-*
thrace all her fortin' as belonging' to her
husband."

To the Harcourt agent's amazement
her ladyship " proffered her hand, and
seeing his dubiety in returning the salutation
she vigorously clasped his, holding it
firmly while bringing her face close to him,
demanding, " On the peril of your life
speak out, is my husband Lord Harcourt's
nephew ? "

Astonishment was depicted in Flynn's
every lineament while muttering, —

*' Hasn't his lordship would yer ? "

** Answer my question at once, sir."

^' Thin he is Lord Darecoort's nephew,
yer ladyship," he replied with downcast
eyes.

^' You and my husband are the cause of
Mr. Vincent Harcourt's banishment ? "

Hasn't his lordship would ye ? "

** Yes or no, sir? "

Yis, we got him artistic, an' after
he escaped."

She rose still holding his hand — he
also got up — and with each syllable deeply
accentuated, inquired in a laboured voice,
*' Did the late Lord Harcourt really disinherit
Vincent, an only child, and appoint
his cousin, Dorrington, successor to the
title and estates of Harcourt ? "

'^ Hasn't his lordship would "

'^ Go on, sir ; no hesitation with me."

^' He did not, yer ladyship."

*' Then the piibHc announcement endorsed
by you and another, named Arkwright,
is part of this prearranged fraud ? "

^'Id is, yer ladyship, but hasn't his
lordship would "

^^ Peace, peace," she uttered with a
gesture of impatience, adding, '' My husband
and you have mutually concerted
and carried out this dishonest scheme sofar
with success."

We hav, yer ladyship ; bud hasn't his
lordship would ye all himsel' ? "

^' He has told me nothing," she replied
with great emphasis and precision, resuming
her chair.

*^ Thin, yer ladyship, thinking' as how ye
knew everything, I wor the first to let the
cat out av the bag : oh dear ! oh dear ! oh
dear ! "

*^ You alone have been my informant,"
*her ladyship " uttered in an absentminded,
listless tone.

^' Oh, wurra, wurra, what 'ill be don
now, what 'ill be don ? " Flynn sorrowfully
entreated by word and look, when passionately
starting upwards, his counterfeit
mistress exclaimed aloud, —

'' Despite my husband and you, ay even
heaven and earth, I shall remain the noble
Lady of Harcourt." She quickly swept
out of the library, the stupefied agent
falling forward on the table.

CHAPTEK lY.

The private coach-and-four waiting the
arrival of Sir Mervyn Mervyn, to take him
to his large estates near Roscommon, also
carried the Hon. Mrs. Harcourt and the
renowned 0' Grady.

** It is on the road, and I claim the right,
as an old friend of your husband, to insist
on the acceptance of my hospitality :
besides," added the baronet, " in a strange
place, away from friends, and one at
least," indicating the patriot, "eagerly
sought for, will it not best advance the
mission both are pursuing, by allowing me
to associate with you in rescuing Vincent
Harcourt? *'

Tills friendly advice was so patent, and
the Influence of Sir Mervyn Mervyn of such
moment that In a very short time the
travellers were, as we have already stated,
occupants of the massive vehicle conveying
him to his Inheritance, which he
had never yet seen. Triumphal arches, wide
spreading flags, bonfires composed of large
barrels, turf and fir-trees (principally
abstracted from his own enclosures), welcomed
the new landlord. What cruel satire
did not this word ' ' new ' ' imply to those living
upon that property, the young baronet
being Indeed a stranger, as had been his
fathers before him, though these broad
acres had grown old in the ownership and
possession of the Mervyn family. Is not
the curse of non-residence a deadly blight,
imbuing the country with fraud ? and will
not Ireland ever remain an easy prey to the
adventurous hireling of those who neither

look for themselves, nor can be seen by
the tillers of the land?

The fatted calf was of course roasted on
the lawn facing the ^^big house," where the
good things of life were liberally bestowed
and as freely partaken of; from far and
near coming throngs all united in evincing
the warmest, most genuine feeling of
respect towards Sir Mervyn Mervyn. The
cards of the leading families in the adjacent
counties were there in galore, and on a day
yet to be named, the popular landlord was
to receive deputations from those representative
of the middle classes. To-night,
however, he desired to be in private, and
pleasantly the time ebbed away in the
agreeable society of those new acquaintances,
Mrs. Harcourt and O'O'Grady.

Insensibly the conversation turned on
the latter, of whom their host had heard
a great deal, but never other than in con-vol.

III. 5

nexion with Lis public, daring exploits.
Lucy also became anxious to know what
had led to his overtly taking up arms in
rebellion.

Their auditor was not in a mood to
discourse, nor yet did he wish to deny
the natural longing of those importuning
him to the recital.

'' Explain its immediate cause," urged
the baronet, ^' I ask no more, for surely
some original distinctive act will be recollected
by you as that which precipitated
the step."

'^ There was a circumstance that more
than all else made me what I am."

'' Oh, do tell it," pleaded Lucy, supplemented
by their host's volunteered promise
that they would ask nothing further.

Then replied the Outlaw firmly and
measuredly, "You, Sir Mervyn Mervyn,
above all others, are the cause of my various

attempts, baffled though they have been,
in pursuit of my country's freedom's

^^ A stupendous hallucination, considering
we never met before, and that at the
period you allude to I had not even thought
of visiting Ireland. What a capital joke,
Mrs. Harcourt," added the young man;
'^ do you not think so ? ha, ha ! " and he
laughed heartily.

Lucy, however, did not join in the
one-sided merriment ; something in that *
iron, thoughtful brow of the patriot forbidding
it, who waited the evanescence
of the genuine mirth, when he pointedly
reiterated, —

'' I repeat, Sir Mervyn, you are the
cause of my public career, as identified
with opposition to the Government."

The lady felt embarrassed at the colour
mounting to the baronet's face, who,
nevertheless, quickly controlled himself,

saying, in a light, somewhat uncertain
tone, —

*' I will not longer press a point on
which you are so decided, although I gave
my reason for asserting its impracticability,
not being in Ireland at the time the incident,
whatever it may be, occurred."

^'I know you were not," was very
quickly replied.

'' Then how can it be possible that I
have influenced you in any way directly
or indirectly ? "

^' Sir Mervyn Mervyn," began the
Outlaw, 'judge for yourself;" and with
a voice of irresistible pathos he told the
Dangan eviction as we read of it in the
beginning. Omitting nothing, and adding
nothing, the harrowing narrative was impartially
recited, and, influenced by the
appearance of these sympathetic auditors,
he went on pari jpassii^ until, with a tenderness

surprising in one currently associated
with acts of intrepidity and courage,
widely known and marvelled at, he came
to the close, adding, ^^ You have heard
more from me than I would care to speak
again, for the mien of the woman ought to
be foreign to him compelled to checkmate
life, with the world on the alert, crouching
to expedite his exit therefrom."

^^ I am interested beyond measure in
what you have related," exclaimed their
attentive host, extending his arm across
the table, '^ and I shall scrupulously atone
for my unwitting neglect of duty, whereby
such cruel wrongs were made possible,
if not even fostered from the conviction
of being perpetrated with impunity.
Mr. Arkwright, the author of this unnatural
scandal, I have already summarily
dismissed and sent away."

I know where he is, and the secret is

mine alone," interposed the Outlaw with
quiet assurance.

I understood he went to rejoin his
wife in England," observed Wainwright's
late employer.

*that is not so," was decisively spoken.

^' Where is he, Mr. 0' Grady?" inquired
Lucy Harcourt with a look of interest.

^' An inmate of the deep vaults at
Wentworth Abbey."

^'Oh," she exclaimed mom-fully, uplifting
her hands, ^' it is a lamentable end."

'' No," answered his captor, ^^ the varlet
will not perish although richly deserving
it. He treacherously surrounded me
with an escort of fifty picked troops, and
while I stood waiting death from the guns
already aimed at my breast, the cupidity
of the wretch proved his downfall; not
wishing to sacrifice the reward of five
kindred guineas, which the Government

will gratefully pay for my arrest — you
see I am deserving of consideration,"
smiling — '^ he suggested terms of surrender,
retiring into the ruins to privately
arrange them, when perforce he accepted
my conditions, for, touching a secret
spring, I precipitated us both into the
passage beneath."

*' I would have mortally crushed the
worthless canaille'' interrupted the baronet
with passionate emotion.

^' He fully merited it, but, remembering
my promise to his good wife, I
spared him, with a warning against
attempting to escape before the lapse
of three days, when he would be at
liberty to depart, instructing him how
to find an exit from the vault."

'* Do you think he will ever forego
this unnatural resentment to you''
Lucy asked.

'' It is a difficult question to answer ;
however 1 have some hope of him, because
that he so often spoke affectionately
of Mrs. Arkwright. Were he to join her
he might reform, indeed his somewhat
remarkable utterance on my leaving was,
Remember in the day of peril to the true
Darecourts I shall be your friend and
theirs."

** Oh," she exclaimed with joyful fervour,
^* he may yet atone for much if not
all of his misdeeds."

'let him endeavour to do so, and I
will aid in the good undertaking; but you,
Mr. 0' Grady, must henceforth become my
thought night and day, how to undo the
past, restoring you to that society which
you were made to adorn. English though
I am, I cannot doubt that natures such
as thine ought never to be placed unprepared
face to face with seeming wrong,

for like all that is generous and noble you
yearn to share the cause wherein yourself
is sacrificed."

The baronet was very hot as he
finished, while the subject of his eulogy
composedly observed, —

^^ It is not in the power of man to turn
me from the conviction that in the end I
will perish, because I can never recognize
the oppressors of Ireland."

Ere the subject could be further pro '
needed with an announcement was made
that the tenantry and others at the fete
were anxiously awaiting the promised
visit of the baronet previous to the close
of the enjoyable entertainment.

'^ It has escaped my memory altogether,
I will go at once," replied Sir
Mervyn Mervyn, presenting his arm to
Lucy. ^* Come, Mrs. Harcourt," he
said, ^' do not deny me the pleasure of

contributing to the gratification of others ;
besides, it will enliven you a little."

ii Very many thanks," she answered
softly. *' I would rather remain and
occupy myself in reading until you both
return."

The Outlaw already liked the frank
Englishman, and wishing also to afford
his charge some amusement he urged her
to go with them, ultimately succeeding
in his persuasions.

Shortly afterwards the rich landlord,
escorting that pale, handsome, means
girl — many suggested she
would be their future mistress — went
through the respectful standing crowd,
on whom the face and towering form of
0' Grady made a visible impression.

At the further end of the draped temporary
structure Sir Mervyn Mervyn stood
acknowledging the welcoming congratulations

of the largo assembly, while for a
long time his companion had not felt so
well or happy; indeed it appeared as
though the light-hearted Lucy Neville
of the past was herself again.

The Outlaw too looked unusually interested,
as with arms folded on his powerful
breast he silently surveyed the pleasurable
prospect, but beyond all was the new landlord
charmed with the harmonious scene.
Surely, he thought, such people as these
ought not to be discarded. No, I will
recognize our mutual obligations, and
my countrymen shall learn that the
Irish only want the justice of being
truly understood by and of knowing
those whom right and circumstances
have placed over them to become the
happiest, most contented race on earth."

At this instant the young wife started
violently, holding the baronet's arm with

a visible tremor, while looking towards
the window on her left, from whence,
almost at the same time, a sealed letter
addressed to the Honourable Mrs. Vincent
Harcourt was thrown, falling at her feet.

''I hope you are not ill?" he gently
said, handing her the large missive.

^' No, thank you. Sir Mervyn," tearing
it distractedly open, as the colour returned
to her agitated face.

A wild scream now smote that festive
gathering, like a pall of the dead, covering
and hiding their busy mirth.

Hushed and speechless all eyes are
directed to where the landlord, Sir Mervyn
Mervyn, stands tenderly supporting the
fainting beautiful creature in his arms, her
head inertly reclining against his breast,
while the Outlaw in a solemn, deep voice,
breathes the purport of that fated communication
into his attentive ear : —

'^ My darling, beloved Wife, — One
chance alone remains of safety. The
soldiers are on our track. That ship in
the offing will receive us on board, or we
perish. I am broken-hearted. Pray for
your unhappy

Vincent."

The ^'Darecourt Arms" was largely
attended on the occasion which we now
wish to present to our reader, the landlord'
reigning supreme in the realms of good
whisky and twisted hard Limerick tobacco.

The well-remembered chair of the old
soldier, now no more, was still in its
proud position of honoured loneliness,
none daring to intrude upon its occupation
since the Outlaw graced it at first, to their
indignant surprise; but, ah, how welcome
was he when recognized, and have they
not often heartily desired to see him sit in

it again, ay, go where he would, mid sunshine
or darkness, their allegiance was
loyally and voluntarily his.

The Giddy Flanagan, God bless her, she
lingers in her usual free and easy posture ;
Cup-o'-Tay too leers from out his ordinary
corner. There also is Tom, and there he
will remain so long as the gate of time is
open, and he can shoot its bolt at will.

'^ A tumbler of hot brandy for heaven's
sake," entreated a human voice as, to the
surprise of all the assembled company, a
figure tottered into the room and sank on
a chair. ^' Quick, I am faint, dying."

Holy murther, 'tis Mister Arkwright,"
exclaimed the wondering crowd,
surrounding the latest arrival.

Gulping the ardent spirits, the prostrate
man cried out, "Bring me to the
fire, I am cold, so very cold," and he
closed his weary eyes.

*why we heard he wor killed be the
Outlaw," uttered several softly, pointing
to the well-known agent, who seemingly
slumbered ; but starting in his chair,
the emaciated form, with a great effort,
articulated, —

^^ The noble 0' Grady spared my life ;
if I survive, I shall atone for the wrongs
I have inflicted on him and others."
Whereupon the attenuated speaker became
insensible. '

Chapter V.

We must now direct the attention of the
reader to the opening pages of this work,
which will carry ns forward a period of
about twelve years since the occurrences
related in the last chapters took place.
On the leading draviatispersonce incidental
to our story, the incursion of time even
for a dozen brief years was recorded in
many ways which we shall notice by-and-by
; but we must first revert to the
once-known Dorrington Harcourt, and
Fanny Chalmers, now accredited Lord and
Lady Harcourt, and to the only child
of their shipwrecked marriage — a boy —
another Dorrington of course, although

in appearance he gravitated most to the
maternal side, having a fair complexion,
with a long face, while his father had
developed into a loose, corpulent being,
lazy in look and speech, but very amenable
to his wife. Her ladyship had grown even
thinner than of yore, the cheek-bones becoming
more prominent, though the eyes
receded deeper in their little sockets ; yet
her resolve to be the imperious arbiter of
each and all with whom she came in
contact was vividly reflected from that
possessed, erect carriage, scrutinizing
glance, and laboured hauteur imported
into every gesture and utterance.

Dorrington junior, as we have just
observed, resembled his mother, but not
in that iron will and supple frame ; nay,
therein he was unlike her, being delicate
and effeminate in appearance, while in
manner he looked shy and retiring.

VOL. III. 6

But what of Brien Flynu, factotum in,
of, and for all relating to the Harcourt
property ; yes, he too had changed by the
influx of time, becoming bent in figure and
worn in face, while the acquisition of green
spectacles more than all else seemingly
qualified him for his onerous duties as
the 'grinder," the scornful epithet now
popularly applied to him. If being infallible
in never delaying an instant in
demanding payment of that which was but
then due ; in deferring payment even fora
single hour upon any conceivable pretext
whatever, while always refusing to
liquidate his own debts unless driven to do
so, formed a qualification for the responsible
post of agent, it must be conceded
that he was perfection. Under this inflexible
sway the spirit of manhood was
fairly hammered out of the tenantry.
Lord Harcourt had long ceased to exercise

any personal control in the management
of the property, leaving it wholly in
the hands of his wife and deputy. This
pair mutually distrusted each other ; but,
withal, maintained a careful, practical appreciation
of the rights and conventionalities
due to their respective positions,
thereby avoiding the possibility of colliding
upon any one point, while the superiority
and discipline of her ^^ Ladyship " pressed
upon Flynn like a huge incubus, wherefrom
he only found relief by inwardly
confessing '^ she rules the roost," and it
is no ordinary personal sacrifice to feel
and admit we are beaten. The occasion
of which we are now writing proved an
eventful and stirring one for the possessors
of Harcourt. Breakfast lay untasted between
the careless lord and his consort, and
the petted, hitherto licensed boy had been
relegated to the nursery with an imperious

mandate — *' I shall not allow Master Dorrington
down to-day again, I am worried ; ' '
this first instance of rejection by his
mamma making an indelible impression
on its dual recipient, son and nurse.

Dorrington senior continued to stare
vacantly at the nipped coffee, while
his wife rose hastily from the table,
and paced the room, exclaiming, —

^^What can detain the agent?"

*you ought not to be so impatient,
my dear, he has never waited upon us
at this hour before, and is probably
dressing to answer your summons."

** People like him should always be
ready for their superiors," she snappishly
retorted, resuming her reproachful look
and brisk walk.

After a short interval the acquiescent
Brien Flynn bowed himself in, and
cringingly saluting his noble employers,

became seated in the chair indicated
by her ladyship, with a seemly inquiry
as to their respective health, and an
earnest hope that nothing had occurred
of an unusual nature to cause his having
been sent for.

*' It is of an unusual nature," answered
Lady Harcourt ; ^' judge for yourself,
Flynn," she added, pushing a large,
folded document bearing an official stamp
towards him.

Besting his green spectacles on the
sharp ridge of his nose, between those
ferret-like eyes, the middleman took up
the formal paper, which he almost immediately
relinquished with a white or
rather a whitish-green expression upon
his disturbed face, observing mechanically
—

She's gon' afore the shuparyor Judges,
claiming' the estates av Darecoort as the

widely av Mister Vincent, who's dead
an berry 'd."

*' Which yon are not certain of," rejoined
his restless mistress, " and it is of
little consequence compared with the
fact that she has akeady gained the
former solicitors of the Harcourt family
to espouse her cause."

^' That's serious, anyhow, hud can I
ax how does yer ladyship com to know
av this?"

** You are not always accurate, sir,
whilst I try never to omit anything ;
look at the citation again, and you will
see that the legal agents to the suit are
those of the late Lord Harcourt, withall
their private knowledge of the family
to help her petition."

*oyer ladyship's sagacity is wonderful,"
responded the deputy ; '' an' I beg
pardon for overlooking' the important

news;" he inwardly added, "that's how ye
hav me at yer feet, for share the civil cudn't
put ye out av yer latitude in anything."

While her husband looked supine and
indolent. Lady Harcourt was bristling
with vigour and ingenuity, thinking how
best to meet and conquer in the proximate
struggle.

In a diffident manner, appreciable in
one who felt he was dealing with his
superior, Brien Flynn, unmindful of Lord •
Harcourt, addressed his wife, saying, —

"I'd like to know av yer ladyship
has any settled kind av an idaya what is
bist to be don? "

"You generally find me possessed of
an idea," was answered tartly.

That I do, yer ladyship."

"Yes, and I have one now which admits
of no hesitation."

What is id, yer ladyship ? "

Get Vincent's widow into our grass,
and hold her captive until she is no
longer capable of molesting us." The
speaker's voice and face now became
loud and heated.

^^ She may refuse to give us the opportunity,
my dear," Dorrington languidly
interposed.

Then let her die," was rejoined in
measured words, proceeding with energy
^'the consideration is my only child,
and of the two she must perish — aye, and
I myself shall undertake the task, and
accomplish it if he whose duty it is to
guard the rights of his wife and son fails
in the trust."

What do you mean ? " exclaimed her
husband, turning in his chair.

'' Ha, my lord! has conscience wounded
you with the probe of truthfulness at my
words; you know," she added, 'That your

hold of the Harcourt belongings shall be
withered and decimated at the first fair
contrast between foul fraud and bright
omniscient truth."

Upon my word, Fanny, you amaze
me."

'' Bah ! " retorted his dissatisfied wife,
*' leave dissembling to others. Surely our
child's weal is not to be frustrated by the
continuance of any frail illusion. Go, my
lord," she warningly continued, "while
yet there is time, and render this righteous
suitor powerless to wreak her well-merited
vengeance upon us all."

'* Dismiss the idea of merit, to which
I lay but feeble claim," observed Lord
Harcourt with a faint smile, " but tell
me what you apprehend. I can see no
occasion to notice the puny endeavours
of a mere woman."

A mere woman," echoed his spouse,

** has ere now stepped in and lit the
torch of success, where self-redoubled
champions of so-called men have tried
and perished; besides," with increased
energy, ^' she has Sir Mervyn Mervyn
to pioneer her efforts."

I am a lord, while he is but a
baronet," was answered sarcastically.

^* His powerful interest has already
secured to her the help of the executive
in prosecution of this claim, and in the
removal of the unfounded charge against
her banished husband."

^' I do not owe my position either to
him or the Government, Fanny."

^' The publicity of the lawsuit will
bring back your cousin even from the
antipodes, provided he is still alive,"
she resolutely urged.

"The idea is sweetly Utopian, my dear,"
answered Lord Harcourt in a bantering

vein; *but you overlook the impossibility
of ousting a man in possession,
and that man a rich lord."

'* Yet, Dorrington, the most advanced
and eminent of lawyers are already
ranged on the side of our determined
opponent."

*eyes," he responded in a drawling,
listless tone ; '^ like intoxicated fools
they have become giddy with success,
and will over-balance themselves in rush •
ing against a wealthy nobleman''

Maddened at the levity he exhibited
and the little effect her reasoning had,
she shouted with a vehemence of voice
and manner which irresistibly caused the
two listeners to jump to their feet, confronting
her.

drunkenness is the epilepsy of hell;
but he who is of mankind born, and can
look on content Vv^hile his wife and child

are being despoiled — the latter of even its
birthright — is beyond the reproach of the
foulest fiend to be found within that
charred, exhaustless catacomb."

The agent looked on meekly silent,
but the muscles of his mouth revealed
deep agitation, while the master of Dare-court
stood regarding his spouse with
a gaze of speechless wonder if not
absolute alarm.

^' Bring me writing materials," she
authoritatively demanded after a short
pause, drawing her chair to the table,
not deigning to notice her husband's
astonished expression. ^'Flynn, I can
depend on you, if on no one else." She
spoke with marked bitterness.

^^ That ye can, for me life, yer ladyship."


I think so," with a slight hesitancy,
proceeding in a commanding strain.

You know where this Mrs. Lucy Dare-court
lives ? "

^^Yis, yer ladyship."

*as it not at Howth?"

*^ Yer ladyship's always right, bead!"

*' Then I will entrust you with this
missive to deliver into her own hands."

** She wudn't accept it from me, yer
ladyship."

Why not, pray, if you go as Lord
Harcourt's representative?"

*^ Ye'll pardon me, yer ladyship, bud I
don't think as how she'd receive it av his
lordship himsel' went."

*sat any other time I would scorn to
notice her — now I shall play the hypocrite
until she is so effectually crushed, that
even the spirit or desire to live is dead and
entombed in her. Go, Flynn," she continued,
rising as the middleman cautiously
advanced, *have the long-boat manned,

and send the letter by one whom you can
trust, prepared to bring this self-asserting
widow back to-night."
■ " Back to-night," echoed her liege, as
the agent bowed and withdrew.

^' I said so, my lord."

^^ What do you mean, Fanny ? "

*' To entice her to the wood of Feltram,
where no eye can see or ear listen to what
her future fate may be, which she herself
shall determine by the acceptance or
rejection of my conditions."

Stepping back a pace or two, he
observed, in accents of sarcastic inquiry,—


^' Ha ! ha ! Are you afraid of someone
at last, though that one be Lucy
Harcourt ? "

*^ Peace, drivelling idiot ! " was exclaimed
sternly. " I am only afraid of the daylight
revealing your fraud."

Dorrington sank upon the conch dejectedly,
while laughing almost in his ear
she continued with vicious disdain,—

I look down in scorn upon you."

Chapter VI.

Verily a profound change has come over
the personnel of the Dangan estates since
the period when we last presented them toom'
readers' notice ! contentment, peace,
and prosperity being the three characteristics
now visible to the most superficial
observer as the numerous tenantry
walk by, well-clad and well-looking ; the
cheery salutation " God save ye," manifestly
arising from a light heart. What
is the cause of this evident alteration ?
Is it the open-hearted English baronet
figuring so largely in every object of real
philanthropy, or his wife, for that he had

long since been married, seemed a condition
inseparable from one of his rank and
appearance, or abandoning either of these
probable alternatives it might be that the
many acres had passed into other and abler
hands who thoroughly appreciated their
occupiers from an Irish stand-point. No,
a distinct negative must be returned to
these several conjectures. Sir Mervyn
Mervyn was as good and benevolent as
before, providing for each honest necessity
of the holders of Dangan, still his
property, but he had been absent from
Ireland for years travelling on the Continent
and in America; hence it was not his active
hand that had wrought the general improvement,
nor, however surprising it may
appear, was he yet married, indeed those
who knew him best asserted that he had
no intention of entering life's role of cares
as a Benedick. But the subject of these

VOL. III. 7

opinions had secretly resolved within his
heart of hearts, ^^ If I can induce her to
listen to me, I will;" but no, no, we must
not anticipate.

The proximate and immediate source
whence springs all this happiness and
contentment upon that wide demesne is
to be traced to the English wife of the
repentant, reinstated Robert Arkwright,
and the hands that were once raised against
the agent in Cain-like enmity would now
tear down with the enthusiasm of affection
the faintest glimmer of even suspected
evil to him before the apprehended wrong
could become a reality. He lived to
obliterate the remembrance of the past
by a career of honest, virtuous clemency,
and although the compatriots of his class
and a few other individuals regretted and
contemned him for his so-called cowardliness,
the world at large applauded the

resolute man who recognizing injustice
had the courage to avow and flee its
enticing pursuit.

Lucy Harcourt and the 0' Grady were
amongst his foremost friends, but Brien
Flynn intuitively feeling that parallel lines
can never meet — henceforth separated
himself from ^^the milk an' father rhana-
garde," as he described him, adding with
bitterness, ^'I'm sorry I ever put muslin
the vermin's clutches."

While the Dangan deputy had grown
grey-haired and somewhat marked by time,
his employer, Sir Mervyn Mervyn, became
broader and more compact — although assuming
an air of contemplative gravity
unusual in one of his temperament. As
we now find him, he was sitting in the
agent's comfortable drawing-room, taking
his ease after varied multitudinous wanderings.
The window-blinds were closely

drawn shutting out the banks of night-clouds
rolling upwards from the sea, while
the ruddy baronet and his trusted host
drew their respective seats nearer to the
welcome fire, the traveller sympathetically
relating many of the startling
incidents associated with the unavailing
search in quest of Yincent Harcourt,
and Robert Arkwright, reciprocating the
chord of harmonious feeling then uppermost,
told in return all that he knew concerning
each item of mutual interest or
local import happening during the absence
of his guest.

''I am very glad," continued the younger
man, ^'that my efforts with the executive
have availed so fully as to secure
the restoration of her property to Mrs.
Harcourt."

^' And the removal of the prohibitive bar
against her husband," responded his listener.

*' Which is of little use now, except
as a personal gratification."

^' Then, Sir Mervyn, you believe him
to be dead ? "

^* Unquestionably, and to this fact maybe
ascribed my success with the government
on behalf of his relict."

^'I am truly sorry for her," observed
the agent with a pained expression.

His employer answered in a more hopeful
tone, — " Regret is useless, and as
already announced to you, I have secured
the services of the former solicitors to the
Harcourt family to vindicate her claims
as widow of the legitimate heir of the
last lord."

*^ A righteous move," ejaculated Arkwright,
his face losing its colour, 'for
never was fraud more patent than that
whereby the present possessor usurped
both title and estates," adding inquiringly.

*'Doyoii think Mrs. Darecoiirt will prosecute
her cause to the utmost ? "

'' Decidedly ! The preliminary steps
have been taken, and she cannot now consistently
retire from establishing the fact
of her husband's unsullied paternity if
for no other purpose."

So soon," exclaimed the agent, the
hue on his face being of a very uncertain
shade now.

*« Why not ? right is right, and she
shall have what justly devolves upon her
as relict of the defamed, outraged Yin-cent,"
emphatically remarked Sir Mer^yn
Mervyn.

'ris Mrs. Harcourt aware of all that
I represented to you ? " was asked ina
modulated voice, as though the speaker
felt timid of himself.

"Not all, she will call here this evening
on returning from the city ; do not be

afraid, Arkwright, banish this hungering
hesitation and unfold yourself fully, performing
a good, retributive action that
cannot fail to exalt you in her eyes as
it does in mine."

*^ True, Sir Mervyn, but only to think
that through Dorrington Harcourt, his
agent, and myself, she has hitherto lost so
much; even her husband perished a victim
to our damnable conspiracy." The penitent
speaker looked abashed upon th
floor.

^^ Rely on it, the rascals would have
found other means of accomplishing their
ends without your assistance, and it is
a judgment upon them that you were
concerned in the plot, when now rising
up to vindicate justice at their deserved
sacrifice."

Yes, that is the one only consolation
to fall back upon, but it is a painful ordeal

having to confess to an injured woman
who has suffered so long."

^' You can judge yourself where to draw
the line," counselled the baronet ; " for
which reason I did not proceed so far in
the recital of what you confided to me as
otherwise I should ; but I forgot, where
is the stranger I brought with me ? ' '

'among the servants, well taken care of,
I assure you," the agent answered, with
a meaning glance.

'' He will prove one of our trump
cards," responded Sir Mervyn Mervyn,
with deep significance. '' Indeed," he
went on, 'this evidence alone will be sufficient
to establish our friend's position.
Ha, here they come," as a knock resounded
throughout the house, and almost
immediately before either of the gentlemen
could gain the doorway, Lucy Dare-court
appeared, escorted by the senior

partner in the firm of solicitors now acting
for her. She was dressed in deep mourning,
and seemed somewhat heated on
entering the warm room, but this rapidly
gave way to a settled, composed look of
ineffaceable sorrow, while her expressive
eyes pierced you through and through.
And the Dangan agent felt it so when
with face flushed by the light of anxious
inquiry she quietly but measuredly observed
as though it were demanding and'
entreating at the same time, —

** Mr. Arkwright, will you please to
narrate all that you wish me to know
respecting the Harcourt conspiracy sofar
as relates to my banished husband ?
Sir Mervyn Mervyn prepared this gentleman,"
indicating her lawyer, ^'and myself
to expect as much."

Bowing in return to her melancholy
smile, the baronet interposed, '' Mr. Ai'k-

wright is already aware how deeply we
sympathize with him, and applaud his
determination to father the cause of
justice, great though the trial maybe personally,
and the extent of the disclosure
must be wholly governed by his private
feeling in the matter."

The agent, however, needed little forbearance
from his auditors ; once the first
sense of shameful reservation had vanished
he succinctly placed the whole of Warrington
Harcourt and Brien Flynn's successful
plot before them, as he knew of it,
from its earliest to its latest phases.

Lucy listened to the clear recital with
the utmost tranquillity, but its effect was
different on the phlegmatic solicitor, who
at the termination thereof exclaimed, —

"This then, was what the nefarious
Flynn darkly hinted at in my office ; and
when contemptuously declining further

conversation I wrote to his employer, the
late Lord Harcourt, nothing whatever
came in reply, until we ceased to be
connected with the family."

After an interval, during which Arkwright
regained composure, the lady,
addressing the scion of law, asked, —

'^ What do you think of the case now? "

'^ A fraud is a fraud, madam," was the
logical reply.

Do you contemplate any new step ? "'
requested the baronet, seeing that the
attorney was about to continue.

^' The precept from the Court has
already been issued and served upon the
defendants, but my present purpose is to
consider whether we cannot couple all
the delinquents together on a charge of
forgery, and although this unreal lord is
in possession, we will easily reach him
and the agent. The great difficulty being

to prove that this woman, Fanny Chalmers,
was a party to the falsification
before or after her marriage. With the
evidence of this gentleman," pointing to
Arkwright, "and that of the man who
wrote the false papers, already forthcoming,
there would be little to apprehend,
the only questions troubling me are at
what period of the scheme were these vile
conspirators married, and what has become
of the original deeds, which of course
they, in collusion with Flynn, abstracted,
substituting spurious ones in their
stead."

You think there can be no doubt,"
he added, addressing the baronet, '' of
the demise of this lady's husband ? "

'' Alas ! none ; all that is humanly possible
I have tried for his discovery, or
that of his companion, Mr. Dillon, but
failed, and it was only when convinced of

the inutility of pursuing the search longer
that I returned from America."

Lucy rewarded the speaker with a fervid
look of gratitude.

^'It would embarrass us considerably
in prosecuting the case, were you, Sir
Mervyn, unable to satisfy the Judge as to
the impossibility of finding and producing
Mr. Vincent Harcourt, and of the probability
of his death."

*' Do not say so," pleaded the young'
widow, with a voice pitiable in its soft,
wailing, uncertain sound.

^' Of course, dear madam," responded
the fluffy man of law, thrown off his guard,
*^ we require to be very practical in dealing
with details which if unexplained to the
satisfaction of the Court might seriously
operate against us." The speaker now
suggested it was time to depart, having
nothing more to ascertain, except a clue

coTild be found as regarded the date of
Fanny Chalmers' marriage, and the present
locale of the genuine deeds.

*'I shall put my trusted assistant, old
Dominick Sullivan, on the alert, who is
very likely to ferret out something to
our advantage," was volunteered by the
Dangan agent.

^* If he displays as much discernment
and industry in this cause, as he did when
walking to Paris in his own, success is
certain," observed the baronet, nodding
and laughing good-humouredly towards
Arkwright.

They all now turn to the hall, at the
door of which stands Sir Mervyn Mervyn's
carriage, waiting to convey Mrs. Dare-court
to her temporary home at Howth,
the intention being not to reoccupy
Nevillstown until the result of the impending
trial became known.

Warmly shaking hands with the solicitor
and Arkwright, the baronet assisted Lucy
to her seat in the elegant vehicle, and
had placed his foot on the step following,
when the report of firearms in close
proximity was succeeded by a scream,
and the oil lamp over the entrance fell
smashed to atoms.

That cry came from a concealed figure
crouching behind the hedge on the opposite
side of the road, who had raised and

presented the pistol at the widow lady

«

entering the carriage ; simultaneously with
the explosion that would-be assassin
shrieked with pain, the hand holding the
weapon being broken at the wrist by a
well-directed blow diverting the fell bullet
from its destined victim. A low voice
appreciably restrained reached the miscreant's
ear, hissing, "Away, thou inhuman
fiend, ere my itching fingers rob justice

of its suspended wrath and sate themselves
deep in thy unwomanly bosom."

'quick," exclaimed the Outlaw, standing
beside the equipage, " take her home.
Sir Mervyn, there is danger in the wind."

"Who was that shot intended for?"
Lucy Harcourt inquired, recovering from
her alarm as she recognized the voice of
0' Grady.

"An oil lamp, evidently," was hastily
replied, raising his hat and smiling
bitterly.

Oh, come with us ! " she urged.

But in accents of resolution, he answered,
"Not now; necessity points me
elsewhere."

The next moment the spirited horses
dashed forward, while the Outcast of Wentworth
Waste returned whence he had come,
and vaulting over the hedge, stooped beside
the fallen form of that person whose wrist

he had in his passion shattered, saying
easily, ^* I am at least a man, and rancour
with me is short-lived : give me thine
hand; would I had the power to spare
thee pain, but, alas! I can only assuage it;
necessity has long taught me the moral of
copying nature, and thus I will aid you."
Whereupon he gently laid the dislocated
member on a pillow of dry leaves, which
with adroitly improvised splints greatly
mollified the sufferer's pain. Then unresisting
he led her into the high road,
continuing, '* I seek not to intrude myself,
go norway ; but if you apprehend danger,
I will brave it for the sake of what you
ought to be — pure and stainless, that
which we expect in woman's nature."

Throughout the foregoing, the figure
confronting the speaker remained impassive,
hence it was impossible for him to
note the effect his burning words created,

VOL. m. 8

but he had not departed many paces from
her ere the exclamation half suppressed,
half spoken, reached him, —

'soh, who can he be? Alas! am I
recognized? "

Instantly that mighty form stood by her
side again, sternly declaring : ^'O'Grady,
the Outlaw, knows the false Lady
Harcourt."

Chapter VII.

*the time and place are odd, but strange,
dark deeds necessitate the avoidance of daylight;
and although this one of mankind's
most degraded types has been brought to
the confession of guilt, neither the motive
nor act can expunge the cruel deceit and
hideous wrong so patiently endured.

** He promises to restore my darling
Vincent's intercepted letters, and that he
will no longer bar the way to my happiness.
Oh ! can it be true that my husband
still lives, and that these usurpers wil
vacate their unhallowed possessions ?
Would I could be happy, ay, even in
proportion as I have grown wretched !

^^ Existence is to me the synonym of
perpetual sorrow, and will it not be fitly
expiated in the service of my love ?

*^ Baffled strategic brought to bay have
often resorted to unheard-of extremes,
and what may not this thrice perjured
lord attempt?

^'Let Dorrington Harcourt and his
crafty partner but lay down the' illicit,
fraudulent gain, and I shall seek no
advantage from the fallen foe, nay rather
will I assist them to flee the country
whose laws and society they have outraged,
finding an asylum where they are
unknown.'

Thus mused the lorn Lucy, as, in
that wild, pitiless storm she walked on
alone and unattended, yet consciously
sustained, to this interview with the
supposititious owner of Harcourt.

Darkness reigned supreme on that

solitary, avoided road leading from Mala-hide
to the wood of Feltram ; and
although the wind startled every movable
thing into a fictitious semblance
of existence, she proceeded, assured in
the conviction of personal safety, wholly
absorbed in pondering upon her long-lost
husband.

^' I hope you have not been waiting,"
observed Lord Harcourt in an unsteady
voice, as he took his station under the
huge old elm-tree facing the hill whereupon
stood the well-known windmill.

'^ I neither came to wait nor be detained,"
was answered in a firm, self-asserting
tone, contrasting strangely with
that of the previous speaker.

^^ The result shall compensate for the
unwonted journey."

^' If I thought otherwise I would not
be here."

*' Are you alone ? " demanded the first
arrival.

** Was it not a part of the compact
that I should come by myself, even to
the exclusion of my servant?"

^^ Yes, but I did not know if you had
observed its literal fulfilment."

^'My motto is never to deceive," was
rejoined bitterly, with unmistakable emphasis,
while her interviewer advanced
still nearer, and folding his arms, said, —

*' It would be obviously impossible, Mrs.
Vincent Harcourt, to meet you for the
first time — strange though the hour and
place may be — and forego the opportunity
of seeking to justify my actions in the
past."

'* Abandon this absurdity," she answered
with severity ; *' all that can be urged
will not alter what has been done, or
its entailing of utter misery to me and

mine : " the lady became affirmative in
manner and tone, *' come to the immediate
issue, sir ; what do you propose in
accordance with the statements whereby
you brought me here ? "

^^ I will verify my representations," he
replied, ^^ in their entirety; first of all"
(searching his coat) ^' you are doubtless
well acquainted with my Cousin Vincent's
handwriting."

'' Yes" (wearily uttered), ^' I have seem
it too often, yet not often enough."

'judge then, madam, are these his
letters addressed to you ? " — unveiling a
parcel which he held towards the amber-coloured,
quivering lamp in his hand.

*' Oh ! thank Heaven, they are ! " she
ejaculated ; " and for these at least I am
your debtor," — pressing the missives with
avidity to her lips.

'you must be satisfied, apart from

all suspicion, that I am a man of
honour."

*' Sir, let us proceed to the close : do
not invite a contrast whereby your present
actions must become tarnished by the
memory of many past ones''

'^ I am content," he resumed]; '' and
now entreat your serious attention to
the proposition I resolved on making.
Mrs. Vincent Harcourt, at best it is
egregious folly to attempt to control
destiny. Whichever of two courses you
elect to pursue will decide whether the
future is to become one of assured bliss
or endless misery."

Ic ane prepared to solve my destiny,"
she responded unfalteringly, although the
while appreciably drifting into a modified
sense of alarm at the growing seriousness
of her opponent 'swords and mien . Putting
forth his face till it almost touched hers,

he exclaimed quickly, in a voice that
seemed to grow familiar to her astonished
ears, —

'^ Sign this undertaking invalidating
the lawsuit and acknowledging me to bethe
rightful Lord of Harcourt ; in return
I will assure to you the safety of Yincent,
together with ample means wherewith
to live luxuriously abroad ; but refuse todo
so and '*

*^ And what?" his surprised auditor
demanded firmly.

*' You will never behold him again —
never — never, so help me "

^' Peace, blasphemer, nor dare defile my
ears by such dishonouring words," she
vehemently proceeded, gathering up her
cloak to depart; *^ I tell you, man of fraud,
that Heaven will right me despite your
sordid machinations, and were it not that
I received these cherished tokens of my

beloved husband from your hands I would
invoke the Almighty power on high to
abridge even the little time left wherein
you can despoil thy cousin and his
wife."

Curse this pliant tongue," he shouted
angrily, " nor pity nor fear is in me but
you shall sign this acknowledgment.
Look, what are these prized mementoes
worth ? ha ! ha ! read them," — and while
his discordant laugh rode out upon the
wind moaning through the swaying trees,
Lucy unfolded the paper marked as being
the last Vincent had written, and clasping
her hands upon her forehead almost immediately
cried in heart-broken accents, —
** In mercy ! spare me, spare me ! "
There in her hand it lay, but too real
even to those true eyes, her husband's letter
traced upon his death-bed in characters
wherein effort and pain were clearly recognizable.

Leaving this world he bequeathed
to his wife the bitterest reproaches for
falsity, irrefragably established in her own
intercepted handwriting then sullying the
dying writer's troubled eyes. Appended
was Eustace Dillon's well-remembered
signature attesting the bona fides of the
communication and the decease of Vincent
Dare court.

Now, madam, what avails your puny
efforts ? and am I not foregoing my self-esteem
in condescending to explain that
which brought you to my feet, even while
asserting a claim to be mistress of
Harcourt ? "

'^ Forego this," she urged; ^' I am
crushed, broken-hearted."

But her informant was selfishly resolved
on taking advantage of her helpless misery,
saying,—

"There will be another time for your

grief, which is but natural ; now let its
become friends. Endorse this "

Ere the sentence was finished she interposed
inquiringly, —

*show could you just now offer upon
certain terms to restore my husband tome
if he were really dead ? "

"I did, but — but," after a pause, 'rit
was to show the more effectually how
that for joy or sorrow you lay completely
at my mercy."

"Thus playing the despot with my feelings,"
was coldly observed; " and surely
if I am so worthless it is not becoming
in you to stoop asking my signature to
that document. No," she continued ina
firmer tone, " he who is false in
aught is ever untrue ; take back your
fraudulent creations, or leave them for
the derision of night-fiends ; the writing
is truly that of my erring, misguided

Vincent, but I will still trust to the
justice of innocence for retribution, while
you, shameless, unmanly creature, vainly
try to smother the gnawing of a perjured,
forsworn soul." Whereupon she turned to
retire while the enraged listener sprang
forward in her path, shouting, —

"Stay! sign this paper, or you will
never go hence alive."

By the mercy of Heaven I shall not,"
that pale-faced woman answered fearlessly,
continuing, " I will die sooner than sacrifice
my husband's heritage and acknowledge
your monstrous perfidy."

The speaker attempted to move while
he kept before her crying out, —

"Flynn, Flynn, come forth at once."

Ha ! has the so-called Lord Harcourt
need for the services of another as questionable
as himself?" she remarked in a
stinging, taunting voice.

^' Bring me the rope," was the mandate
of the employer as his agent advanced.

'' 'Tis here, me lord," the latter meekly
replied.

^^ Then cast it around, and we will bear
her to the mill yonder."

'' Yis, me lord," the deputy responded,
throwing one end of the coil, which his
confederate caught.

'' Do you seriously mean to harm me ? "
the lone widow asked, for the first time
betraying real concern.

Subscribe your name," retorted her
antagonist, presenting the document, '' or
you shall not see daylight again."

''I dare you to the worst," she
haughtily rejoined, folding her cloak and
looking on calmly.

"Draw ! " shouted the incensed Warrington
to his assistant, when Lucy immediately
passed the encircling noose over her

head. Infuriated at seeing her free, the
supposed Lord Harcourt turned and raised
his hand to grasp her, hut suddenly he lay
unconscious on the earth, while his coadjutor
reeled hack several yards and also
fell.

Oh, why is your untimely lot cast in
with these evil-horn cowards ? * ' exclaimed
the Outlaw despondingly, as, taking Lucy's
arm in his, they both left Feltram's mystic
wood.

Chapter Viii.

Lucy Harcourt looked out from her
favourite alcove upon the shiny waves,
laving those rocky boulders which, as it
were, formed a trellis work around her
vigil height, where in loved solitude she
was wont to renew the sunny days of yore,
the thought uppermost in her pensive mind
at this moment being, what could the false
usurper of Harcourt mean by resorting
even to violence in an abortive attempt
to force her into a recognition of this
usurpation ; but above all, how or by
what means did he obtain possession of
her husband's writing, which, alas ! was

BO simulation, but too, too real in its dire
import ?

^* The lawyers have comforted me, it is
true, by saying that the very audacity of
the enterprise reveals its inherent weakness.
Yet their lucid minds could not
unravel the mystery attending the letter,
except that, as they opined, it augurs the
existence of a deeper plot than was comprehended,
extending to some false detestable
misrepresentation, which reached*
Vincent in his remote home wherever it
may have been, causing him to reproach
me even on his — but no, no," she suddenly
exclaimed, ^^it is an impossibility.
He would never be permitted to die without
knowing how loyally my young life has
grown old in the service of his memory.
"What other object have I ever held
first in my bereaved heart but that one
born of love — a pellucid, exclusive love

VOL. III. 9

that can only find its meed of necessary
requital by knowing he survives in happiness."
Then her musings embraced the
devotion of the Outlaw. '' How noble
he is, how dead to all else but the conviction
that he holds the right to guard
me in fulfilment of his last words to my
husband, and well is this trust redeemed,
ay, even when unknown to myself. I
should have fallen by the device of that
equivocal impostor, Dorrington Harcourt,
but for his timely aid ; unthought of and
unexpected, and panther-like he must
have followed the trail while, forgetful of
him, I wended my way to Feltram Wood.
Was I not grateful to Sir Mervyn Mervyn
when announcing his success with the
Government, not merely in recovering my
long forfeited property, but beyond this
in securing such consideration for 0' Grady,
that did the latter bend his proud neck

asking for pardon, the Crown would willingly
grant it and rehabilitate him. Yet
he steadfastly, even peremptorily, declines
listening to a suggestion of humbling himself,
however slightly, preferring instead
to pursue that nomadic, wretched life.

'*Mydarhng Vincent," she continued to
soliloquize, ^'wertthou here, wouldnotthy
earliest, deepest care be to preserve and

honour him who had saved me from death,

«
and whose fostering hand is this moment

raised unseen to disperse all that would

rob your Lucy of quietude ? "

A knock at the door caused the thinker to
look round — her aunt (the companion of
her retirement) had been dead some years,
when the faithful, if withal querulous, odd
Margaret made her appearance, saying, —

** 'Tis thin boys wanting' the rush-light
for the year kindled."

*'0h, certainly, Margaret, I really quite

forgot that this is the anniversary of the
time-honoured holiday, send them to me,"
and rising, Lucy Harcourt went towards
the porch, waiting the arrival of the villagers,
who approached, preceded by the
oldest man of their number.

This patriarch left the others waiting
on the threshold while he walked to where
Lucy stood, and kissing the hem of her
dress, shouted through his toothless gums,
^' Three cheers for the lone lady av the
hill," whereupon a chorus of vigorous
approbation was sent up, which, although
representative of the many, had at least
one exception, testy old Margaret being
heard objurgating, —

^^ We'd mother the civil wit yer
unnatural schrayms."

^' I am much obliged for your hearty
salutation," responded the hostess with
smiles, followed by the usual, —

*^ Divin bless yer ladyship, yer own'll
com back yit, 'tis far aff what God sends."

^* I'd like to sind ye far enos, anyhow,"
muttered the domestic, while her
mistress observed, addressing the village
Nestor, —

** Bring me the brand."

^' 'There, yer ladyship," he answered,
presenting the rush-light.

She was known amongst the people as
the 'alone lady av the hill," and vain
proved every effort to prevent their indulging
in ^' her honest due," always
styling her, ^^ Yer ladyship."

Lucy now applied a match to the igneous
material, and handed back this flickering
torch to the old man, saying, —

May no darkness shroud this light
Upon our rocky shore;
Nor wrong e'er conquer right
While full one year runs o'er.

"The year will run, its morrow come,
Moments ages push ;
In joy, not pain, return again
With autumn's spectre rush."

*' Hurry, hurry!" was universally exclaimed,
and each receiving a silver coin
from the '^ lone lady," these visitors hoist
their pigmy emblems on high, departing in
single file down the zigzag shingly pass,
singing the foregoing traditional lines to
some melancholy chant, looking very
picturesque in the distance.

Lucy watched them with keen interest,
unmindful that Sir Mervyn Mervyn was
already in the room, he being a privileged
visitor at all times, and, indeed, it may be
recorded of aged Margaret that he never
came too often, for as she expressed it, —

^'He's a habit av thriven' his hand into
his breeches pocket, thryin' to git me to
say, 'NOj'budplaze God, I'lltakethe con-say

out av his purse many a time afore
'twill cum to that ingratitude."

*^I am sorry to disturb your reverie,
Mrs. Harcourt, but may I ask the meaning
of this rustic pageant?" inquired the
baronet at her side.

^^ Oh," she answered, while holding out
her hand, ^^I did not know you were here;
it is an ancient custom in these parts
that on a certain day a rush shall be
lit by the occupier of the highest house on-this
hill and handed to the oldest man in
the village, who afterwards, in company
with his fellows, parade its streets, making
merry over the close of the autumn
season."

'the autumn season ! " he echoed, **I
fail to see the relevancy."

"It is easily accounted for, winter is
not supposed to begin until this light has
been kindled, as you probably witnessed."

^^ A strange custom, indeed," remarked
the baronet.

'^ It is harmless simplicity, and on this
account I rather incline to foster it," Lucy
observed with a pleased look.

'^ Capital philosophy, Mrs. Harcourt,"
was replied approvingly.

'there is very little of unselfishness
in our wonted pleasures. Sir Mervyn, and
I fear now-a-days the motive too often
dictates the act ; but, oh, what sound is
that?" she exclaimed, hurrying towards
the window, and drawing back the heavy
curtains while she looked out, her auditor
following.

Margaret hereupon came into the room
with lights, which, however, her mistress
silently motioned to be taken back, as
bending forward, Lucy Harcourt seemed
to drink in every iota of the sweetly-phrased
song ascending upwards from

the granite-bound foundation beneath her
feet —

Thought rend my heart no more :

I bid thee go, I bid thee go ;
Life's darkest hour is o'er :

Thought false, I know : thought false, I know.
Thy face e'en wears its wonted smile :

It shall not be, it shall not be ;
Nor seeming grief, nor luring wile,

Can alter me, can alter me.

Thought fool'd me to the last :

My faith was warm, my faith was warm ;
To stem the world's rude blast,

I've braved its scorn, I've braved its scorn.
But like the dead sea fruit

That mocks the sun, that mocks the sun,
Thought lifeless in thy truth,

And we are done, and we are done.

As Time drifts on its seething course.

Enfeebling thee, enfeebling thee,
I wish thy breast a thought no worse

Than think of me, than think of me.
Perchance the halcyon days of yore.

Their semblance green, their semblance green.
Will waft the myrtle from the shore,

Where peace is seen, where peace is seen."

The theme and melody seemed to float
over the lady in some mystic fashion, and
being ended she impulsively closed the
window, retiring to a seat seldom used
in the distant corner, when the servant
re-entered, bearing wax tapers.

<< Why are you thus signally despondent
? " inquired Sir Mervyn Mervyn ina
soft, emotional, low voice, perceiving
his hostess with her face hid in her
hands, oscillating from side to side.

^^ Oh," she wailed without looking up,
*' I am so wretched, so heart-broken,
something in that refrain causing me to
think it was Vincent's unfounded reproach,
sung in his rebuking accents of
sadness."

A phantasm pure and simple, be
assured," was responded as the speaker
drew his chap' near, the silence for a while
being undisturbed, save for those monitory

unfailing strokes of time's tell-tale, the
clock.

Hardly able to repress the swelling
tumult within him her companion at length
asked in a would-engrave manner, —

Mrs. Harcourt, when will this continued
sorrow cease, that your friends
may see you even as you should appear,
joyously content, thereby making
others happy ? "

'' Ah," she answered dejectedly, preserving
that drooped, quiescent attitude,
'* never again ; my sun of life is set and all
the specious gilding on this world's toys
of pleasure cannot wean me from the
remembrance of the past ; it is thus and
only thus I care to live."

*' This is sheer madness, surely there is
some one on earth who by an imperishable
devotion will soften and lessen your grief,
or mayhap in the long future beget an

affection rivalling, if not eclipsing, the
former love ? "

*' Never more, never more," was slowly
and mournfully returned.

'' Oh, Lucy," he pleaded, bending before
her, ^' give me the right to call you that
name, obliterating this current of intemperate
woe ; let me live to realize your
dream of earthly bliss," and unresisting
he held her hands, but the next moment
she looked at him solemnly and warningly
while her voice partook of deep apprehension,
saying, —

'you have been so chivalrous throughout
the many years of my lonely suffering,
that I dare not utter what I feel at this
moment ; still generously pity and forgive
me when I declare we can never be other
than friends, real, true, and sincere ; for
will not gratitude always lead me to you ?
Yet, oh look, look," she vehemently exclaimed,

while starting up from the chair,
as the baronet in trepidation rose from the
carpet whereon he had been kneeling. " See,
see, thank heaven, it is Vincent, my own
darling husband," and she rushed to the
window, whereat her suitor observed
the very pale, serious face of a man,
who suddenly disappeared when the lady
approached.

*^ Come to me," she cried aloud, bursting
wide open the casement, "come to me,
Vincent, it is your wife who calls, do
not leave her. Ah, can you forsake your
own Lucy ? I saved your life, why dost
thou turn away ? Have I not too long endured
an unequal struggle for you alone ?
Come back to me, Vincent, come back ! "

Sir Mervyn stood close to her, awed
into silence by that reproachful eloquence
of despair, and both now bend their ears
listening in anxious expectation, still

nought was heard save the wash of the
dark waves breaking on the rocks below,
or the night psalm of some distant plover
and wild curlew.

'' Hark ! " said Lucy Harcourt breathlessly,
pointing with her finger towards
the place whence that agitating song had
recently proceeded, and wherefrom at this
moment the same deep musical voice in
sustained, robust accents, vociferated, —

'^ False one, farewell for ever."

The calm wind bore the awful sentence
upwards, followed by a plash of the waters,
and, as they thought, a second yielding of
the waves ; but no, nothing, nothing was
discernible beneath that shroud of ebony
black desolation.

Oh, Father! take me hence, my heart
is broken," faintly uttered the bereaved
woman, reeling helplessly backwards.

Chapter IX.

*' There remain but two clear days before
the Harcourt trial," observed the Outlaw
regretfully, sitting opposite Robert Arkwright.
" Still the genuine deeds have
not been obtained, and without them there
may be extreme difficulty in establishing
the claim."

It was remarked of late that 0' Grady
had become very abstracted, if not really
irritable, as though some new unforeseen
trouble had arisen, bearing him down with
its unexplained burden.

I know you are too painstaking to
have omitted anything, but might they

not be iu the same apartment, yet differently
placed to others ? " Sir Mervyn
Mervyn's agent inquired.

^ 'An impossibility," was tartly responded,
''I closely searched every nook and corner
therein, getting nothing for my pains but
blue mould and cobwebs."

** What a courageous act to explore
even the strong room in Harcourt
Castle," said his host, but unmindful
of the personal compliment, 0' Grady
proceeded, —

Something must be done this very
night ; tomorrow may be regarded as our
last day for action, and I have undertaken
to satisfy two strangers who are interested
in the results that these documents will
be forthcoming, —

'but the difficulty is how to begin,"
suggested Arkwright.

*yet it shall be overcome. I have

never been unfaithful to a promise, and
my personal assurance is pledged to find
these original Harcourt deeds on or before
the second day from hence."

** I fail to see how you are to succeed,
much as success is desired''

^^ Nor do I," echoed the visitor, when
both relapsed into silence, musing upon
and anticipating the result of the celebrated
suit.

'^ Call the nephew of the Harcourt
agent," said O'O'Grady suddenly, adding,
'' he seems a reliable fellow, and if we
can get him to operate upon his degraded
relative, whilst close at hand, fear will
overawe Brien Flynn, or I am signally
mistaken."

*' I think your judgment is as usual
very sound," the Dangan deputy uttered
reflectively. ^' My own knowledge of
this Roddy would lead me to trust him

VOL. m. 10

in a marked degree, for he had every
incentive to go over to the opposite
side."

"True, but I trust no one unreservedly,"
was replied with an emphatic gesture of
caution, as the aforesaid nephew of the
^' grinder " entered.

"Be seated," enjoined Arkwright, pointing
to a chair, whereupon the Outlaw
addressed the late arrival, inquiring, —

"Your motive, I believe, in coming to
assist the cause espoused by Sir Mervyn
Mervyn is solely to do good."

Yis, yer honour."

"although it includes the expose of
your uncle, Brien Flynn."

There's no agra bethany us, nor ever
will be."

Has he injured you in any way ? "

"In troth he has, he tuck me fi'om me
well-pain' game av law work, an' whin

getting' all he wanted I wor shipped aff to
Ameriky and left to starve, till the master
gev me a helping' hand. An', place God,
I shall do whatever I hav promised Sir
Mervyn, ay to the last pinsworth."

^' This sounds well," exclaimed his interrogator,
continuing, ^^ are you prepared
to meet Flynn at once ? "

'' To tell ye tooth, sir, av it wasn't that
I might be suspected av underhand work
in going', me wish is to see him afore w©
meet an the thryal. Who knows but I
may draw the few pounds he still owes
me, never having' sint any to Ameriky."

Then you shall see him, and on this
very night ; but I must accompany you,
the errand being one of no slight
danger."

'^ As ye like, sir, I'm con tint. anything'
to prove I'm not undeserving' the
kindness Sir Mervyn show'd me'*

'' Which I will gladly undertake to continue,"
supplemented the baronet's agent,
'only proceed resolutely to the close of
this trial, thereby making me as well as
Sir Mervyn Mervyn anxious to become of
permanent use to you."

'' Thin, gentleman, all I can say is, put
anything' afore me, an' trust me I've had
enos av the world through belayvin' me
party relative' Brien, much good may his
thirty money do him."

Some hours later, four men walked
resolutely along the Artane road, carefully
avoiding the isolated habitations on
the lonely way, until they approached the
"Harcourt Arms," where, as we have previously
read, Eustace Dillon's brother was
relating his perturbed di-ears to the company
and 'mine host," strangely corroborated
by the latter, when a face at the
reeking window, like unto the late heir

of Harcourt, violently startled them
from their composure, tobacco, and
whisky.

The guests who had rushed out in pursuit
of that spectral appearance returned
to the village inn disappointed, not knowing
that the subject of their hot chase
hastily joined his three companions in
advance, and that at a signal the quartette
crossed the boundary of Harcourt, hiding
in the well wooded enclosure on its innes
side.

^^ Remain here," suggested O'O'Grady,
** until I return ; note who enters or leaves
the avenue, but do not show yourselves.
Koddy, follow me," addressing Flynn's
nephew, and both were soon after out of
sight, the Outlaw in advance.

Avoiding the Castle, they clambered
through the thick copse, and skirted the
hedges, until reaching the rear of the

building, where the extensive pleasure-garden
terminated.

'await a moment, and I will give you a
helping hand," observed the leader, making
a herculean spring, thereby gaining the top
of the high wall, which his observer regarded
with amazement, though he was
immediately afterwards beside him, having
been lifted lightly thereto by the immense
muscular power of that man.

The attuned ears of the latter at once
discovered the approaching sound of
distant voices, and, dropping into the close
ivy, he seized his follower, saying, —

'' Silence ! there are people coming this
way."

'' I hear nothing," replied Roddy in a
whisper.

'' But I do," was answered decisively,
and both lay concealed in their umbrageous

covering.

^' This is a secluded place," observed a
person beneath them.

'* Id is, yer ladyship," followed from a
second individual.

*^ Tell me now," proceeded the first; '^ we
shall meet no more until the trial decides
our fate, but speak plainly, — Where are
the missing deeds to be found ? Mind,
no prevarication, and, as promised, I will
give you the open draft for five thousand
guineas that I took from you on the
day of the late lord's demise, which I have
scrupulously held unused since, for some
such pressing emergency as is now presented
to us."

*' Yer ladyship shall hear aU, bud ye'll
recollect, not even the lord himsel', nor
any other soul is to know except yer ladyship."


"Not one''

Yer ladyship won't ax to touch the

parchments till the joory hav' com' to a
settlement ? " The narrator inwardly
thought, '' I'll be there afore ye."

^' Not until the jury have arrived at a
settlement as you say, Flynn." Her
led dy ship " privately resolving to secure
them forthwith.

** Thin av yer ladyship '11 kindly sit
down here," pointing to an arbour, 'i'll
tell ye every thin."

'every well," was answered, "go on,
sir."

As a young teddy, yer ladyship may
remember to hav' herd av a celebrated fire
near the bridge, this side av the river ? "
I do not remember."
*' Oh, yer ladyship will av ye think,"
urged the male speaker, continuing, " the
white-lookin' house wor burned down,
where a half-witted craythure named
Molly MacCarthy lost her life."

^^ Yes, yes, I have a slight recollection
of something of the sort, but what has this
to do with these deeds ? ' '

'^ Yer ladyship is a trifle too
anxious," was replied in a semi admonishing
voice ; ^* kindly listen, an' ye' 11 see
where the papers are hid."

^* That I intend to do without delay,"
she silently muttered.

^' Whin the roof wor burned," he proceeded,
'^ they tried to found the remains
av that odd fish, Moll, bud cudn't, an'
gev up the marche ; now whin I wanted to
show away the parchments, the thought
ken into me hed, there's no spot has so
safe as a coffin."

** What do you mean?" his auditor
passionately demanded.

** Only this, yer ladyship, I put all the
dockiemints in a led coffin, an' had thin
berry's in Richmond Churchyard, the

last grave next the canal an the right
hand side, where the shelter is for the
clergyman ; there they are safe an' sound,
wit the name av Moll MacCarthy blooming'
over thin, — the very last plaice in the
world she'd think av going' for thin," the
agent composedly considered, while his
noble mistress congratulated herself,
musing, —

They are so secure in the earth, that
he cannot possibly imagine I will seek
their recovery without his aid, although I
shall certainly do so tomorrow night."

' An original strange interment, indeed, ' '
observed Lady Harcourt aloud, " but perhaps
it was the wisest course after all ;
here is the draft for five thousand guineas,
as arranged," adding, " of course there is
no doubt but that all the documents are
in the coffin?"

^' I very wan, yer leddysliip, that wor

brought from the strong room are there,
as ye'll found whin I cum to take thin
up in yer prince." — " I never shall," he
thought gleefully.

'' You will not," she was inwardly resolved;
saying in a satisfied tone, *this
information is satisfactory. I will now
retrace my steps ; good night, Flynn, and
fear not the results, we must conquer ;
if all else fails, a bullet shall accomplish
the object, although my last shot was nota
success;" the female looked wistfully
towards her hand in splints.

^' Good night, yer ladyship ; wit the
papers in our possession we can't be
bate."

*' My possession," she soliloquized, as
his last words reached her, while closing
the postern gates.

^' Ha, ha, ha ! " exclaimed the veracious
agent when left to himself, " the deeds ye'll

never see ; no, tomorrow at dark I'll be
there to clare thin away, ay, an' I'll sill
thin to the highest bidder, ha, ha, ha !
five thousand guineas also ; com let me
look an yer illigant self, me betty ; " holding
the monetary draft in both hands, the
enthusiast kissed it, passionately uttering,
'' Oh, what need I care now. Til lass whoever
cries, sure the piper's pet already,
up wit ye," he added, in increased jubilation.
^' I've herd there wor hanna sint
to the Israelites in the dissert, bud how
many five thousands ever com down, even
in a lord's garden, ha, ha, ha. Up ye'll go,
ay, to the virry sky, an' say yer morn in
spite av heaven," waving the paper over
his head.

'blasphemous liar, it's mine," came
from the top of the wall, as the valuable
security was nimbly clutched from his
loose grasp.

^^ Who are you ? " groaned the crafty
middleman, not daring to look up.

'' An angel sent to avenge your wickedness,"
he heard retorted, and BrienFlynn
fell upon his knees, weeping bitterly.

CHAPTEK X.

We have already seen in earlier pages that
the mysterious stranger who occasioned
so much unconcealed surprise to the good
people of Swords had taken his way
through the city of Dublin, avoiding its
principal streets, and successfully passed
over the boundary of the Richmond
Cemetery hy means of a skilfully cast rope
from the opposite side of the wall.

Alighting at the hase thereof, he found
his three companions of the previous night
awaiting him.

"Ha, thrice welcome indeed! " observed
O' Grady. '' Now we will commence."

*'Layve the job to me, yer honour," said
Koddy throwing off his jacket and gripping
one of the spades lying against a headstone.


^^ I shall hear my part therein," proffered
the unknown gentleman from Swords,
but the Outlaw waved him to his side,
saying,—

^' It is only child's play ; besides, I want
to speak of last night's exploit, and the
Harcourt agent's five thousand guineas.'
'' Ha, ha ! " was unitedly laughed in
sotto-voce accents, each being alive to the
necessity for secrecy in their present task.

'^ I wonder how me uncle feels after
his palaver wit the honest angel," urged
Roddy, while he and the fourth silent individual
went briskly to work, pick and
shovel, observing strict time in close,
measured pace.

^' Keep a sharp look-out," ordered the

Outlaw, as with the stranger from Swords
he paced to and fro.

The latter resumed, ^' You do not suppose
there was any dissimulation on
Flynn's part ? "

^' None whatever."
" And that the veritable instruments are
in this coffin ? ' '

^' Undoubtedly."

^' What a deep scoundrel he must be to
devise such a hiding-place."

^' I rather applaud, the idea," responded
O'O'Grady, '' for is it not the last corner on
earth where a search would be thought
of?"

*' The wretch who is capable of resorting
to such extremes is qualified for any dastardly
action, and thus I am apprehensive
that he but cheats this false woman of
Harcourt into believing the real deeds
are here."

^' He could not impose upon her were he
even so minded, nor is there a question as to
the papers being in this grave ; indeed, so
accurate was he in his lucid description,
that almost at once I made out the situation
on arriving in advance of you."

^^ Which is both corroborative and comforting;
with the evidence of Arkwright
as opposed to Flynn, this relative of the
Harcourt agent, who wrote the noxious
deeds, and, above all, the production of
the originals themselves, the case seems
clear enough, and I shall be glad when it
is ended, that once more I am free and
unfettered to go where duplicity is unknown
and a false love unheard of."

^' Hold, hold 1 " interrupted his auditor
deprecatingly ; ^' you are wrong in these
mad conjectures."

"Yet you neither could nor would justify
their cause ? ' ' the stranger inquired.

VOL. III. 11

'^ There we agree ; but trust me, the
whitest Hly in nature's widest domain is
not a whit purer than she whom you so
unfairly suspect."

'' I would cheerfully undergo my life's
perils anew could I think thus," the former
vehemently reeked.

They now confront the two figures,
half-hid in the grave, who, with unabated
vigour and unmindful that the walls thereof
were not secured, went deeper and deeper
therein to the rise and fall of these delving
implements impelled by willing hands.

^' I hope you are not over exerting yourself
? " observed the unknown from Swords
in a concerned voice to Eoddy's assistant
in the digging.

''No thank you, it will soon be finished,"
was rem-ned, Flynn's nephew noticing
that these were the only words he had
heard from his confederate, before whom

he felt somewhat embarrassed, as silently
they swayed to the warming task.

The Outlaw and his confrere resumed
their leisurely walk, keeping a sharp lookout
for anything unforeseen.

A few moments had flown away unnoticed
and unheeded between them, when
O'O'Grady suddenly said, —

''I have had such a strange, unaccountable
presentiment of late, whereby my
future life shall be governed, that I long
for the successful termination of this
enterprise."

^* Do not forget that in all concerning
your prospects I am interested heart and
soul*' the other heavenly responded.

I am not insensible to your kind
intentions, although undeserved, but I
hardly know how to fathom the currents
recently flowing from my line of
reasoning."

'rit is time to resolve on a career
befitting yon, for surely' spoken with
sadness, " this wandering life must have
run its course. Leave the country with
me."

'' Neither of us will leave the country,'
was decisively rejoined by the Outlaw.
"Nay," he continued, repressing his companion's
movements, " I know what you
would urge, but it is futile ; while as
regards myself, I am fast settling into a
determination of abandoning my hard,
untoward life, and of seeking an asylum
in solitude and obscurity."

You would net go abroad to follow
that mode of existence which you have for
years resorted to at home ? " inquired his
listener.

No ! " was quickly replied ; "my foot
shall never show its heel to poor old Ireland
; loved come of my happy youth and

desolated manhood, thon wilt not deny the
lorn Outcast the shelter of a grave in the
land of his heart ; but hush, what is
that?" and dropping to the earth the
agitated speaker listened, then, eagerly
rising, softly motioned to his companion
to follow, and speedily they returned
to the grave wherein the assiduous labourers
had already revealed a leaden coffin
to which at each end ropes were now firmly
affixed.

** Quick," whispered O'O'Grady in a sharp,
clear manner, 'sup with you, there are
footsteps coming this way."

And immediately afterwards all four lay
concealed behind a low hedge, the leader
keeping in front with his hat pressed
forward on his temples, the coat buttoned
close round his throat, and lips and
hands rigidly fixed, which those watching
him felt betokened a determination to

succeed in the nocturnal undertaking at
any sacrifice.

After a short suspense they noticed three
figures approaching, pioneered by one who
groped about, looking for some as yet undiscovered
object.

^^ 'Tis strange anyhow, dark an' all as
id is, I can't make id out," exclaimed the
foremost of the last arrivals.

'make out what, Mister Flynn? " was
interrogated.

"The grave," he answered with asperity,
instantly afterwards exclaiming, while
regarding the new dug earth and the
leaden coffin below, '' Oh, blood an' thunder,
bud she's bin here afore me an' got
the priscus dockiemints ! "

'what does he mayne?" inquired the
third individual.

' Documents is the name av the berry 'd
person," the latter muttered seriously.

Here the conversation was peremptorily
concluded, the three explorers being lifted
with the utmost ease, and precipitated in
miscellaneous confusion on the metal
structure beneath.

*^ Where am I, who are ye?" ascending
from their leader in accents of terror.

^'You are in your grave, and I am the
angel of vengeance," a voice sternly replied
from above.

^^Oh, Lord, save me, save me!" feebly
screamed the former, almost bereft of speech
through extreme fright. ^^ Lift me out,"
he added in palsied tones, ^^ an' I'll forsake
me evil ways an' repent ! "

^' Don't let him commit the sin av
murther in layvin us behind," pleaded his
junior partners in the pit.

*'Be jabers, I think so much av ye, Mis-ther
Flynn, 'twill be no ayzey matter for
the angel himsel' to git ye out av me

hands; " whereupon the speaker seized the
prostrate agent under his vest.

*' Hands aff ! " shouted the assailed.

^'Bedad, an' that same's just what I
won't do. The angel may hav the coat
bud the breeches is moine."

*' Why so?" asked the remaining occupant
of the unearthly tenement.

*^ Lord preserve us ! sure av the angel
keeps dancing company he can't take him
home without a cover, so I'll hould an to
the onminshunables."

** Open that coffin! " demanded 0' Grady
in tones of authority, '' and hand up the
papers you have falsely stolen and concealed
therein."

He thought probably that there was a
spring in it known only to the deputy,
and the conjecture proved to be correct,
as, turning to obey the mandate from on
high, Flynn ejaculated, —

*' Oh, wurra, wurra, sure 'tis the day
av judgment ! "

*' The grater necessity for a dancing
pair av breeches' responded the middleman's
unyielding admirer.

*^ Let me go ! " exclaimed his victim,
revealing an opening in the coffin 'neath
the flashing rays of a dark lantern.

"Let him go," echoed the voice from
above.

* His room id be pleasantly nor his company
av he'd lave the onminshiinables."

** Give me your hands,' ' was interrupted,
and instantly the agent stood alone in the
grave, as " Cup-o'-Tay," and Tom, of clock
renown, vacantly recognized the patriot,
to whom they pleaded, —

We didn't know what job he wanted
us for."

Expressing the intended explanation,
however, the Outlaw enjoined, —

^^ Haste, send up every paper in that
unlawful coffin."

'thin will I be forgiven ? " inquired
Flynn, feebly gathering the documents
together.

"I shall not visit you again," was
vouchsafed in reply.

"Ah, thank ye for that same," proceeded
the prisoner in relieved tones;
"bud, angel, won't ye save me whin ye
git the articles ? ' '

The lot of man is to die," flowed succinctly
from above.

"Bud surely not widoutthe devarshun
av a wake, snuff, whisky, and courting," interrupted
Cup-o'-Tay in deploring accents.

Up with the papers, or I will "

"No don't, angel, av ye place ; there
they are," presenting the prized parchments,
adding, "Now, angel, liar marcy
an' a poor sinner."

'' 'Tis false, you are a rich one," came
towards him from on high.

'^ Not now," was answered in despair;
*' these writing's ye're got laves me as
hard up as a one-legged parson."

*^ You're not so poor as your natural
relative, Eoddy, whom you induced to goto
America, and left to perish."

*^ Oh, angel, ye know all me sins, what
shall I do, what shall I do ? "

^^ Mortal, make suitable restitution."

''Ah, angel dear, 'thud take a good
constitution to stand in a coffin as I hav
don," pleaded the suddenly devout man,
with a tremor.

'lie down in it," interrupted Tom.

"He's ben lying' all his life," added
Cup-o'-Tay.

"Your draft for five thousand guineas
is gone," reached the delinquent from that,
same unswerving source beyond.

I wish, angel, a draught id com' into
this hole ; I'm out av breath."

^' The ninth won't shute ye neither, 'tis
a small-sized coffin," volunteered Tom.

Your conduct is unearthly,' ' exclaimed
the supposed one of the other world.

'alas, angel, me posishun isn't," was
the deputy's melancholy response, continuing,
— '^ The lanthorn's nearly out."

Unheeding, however, the first voice resumed,
^'I have reckoned up your debt
and sent the draft to Eoddy."

'^ Ah, angel, I hav' a Roddy rick'ner,
an' 'twill take som' time making' out the
balance he'll owe me."

^^ Consider the wrong you have done intaking
your nephew in."

^^ Angel, an uncle's allowed be law to
take every wan in."

^ The law should have provided for
releasing an uncle; but, hush, what

sound is that ? " Again the Outlaw bent to
the ground, and quickly recovering his
erect position, said softly, — ■

** Hide, there are persons at hand."

"Alas, I'm hid already," thought the
middleman, as he sat himself down upon
the metallic counterfeit.

"This is the direction he gave,"
uttered a female voice, ^'yet I see no
memorial corresponding with his description;"
she walked on, followed by yeomen
disguised, ready to commence the
labour of exhumation.

Suddenly the foremost of these three
stood transfixed, as right beneath in that
open space she perceived Brien Flynn
seated with his head bent forward upon
his chest, while the light of a lamp revealed
an open lead coffin wherein there
was nothing.

Wretch, dissembler," escaped from

the enraged woman's white lips, ^' where
are those deeds that yon promised, for
which I paid yon live thousand guineas ? ' '

"Ah, yer ladyship," he demurely answered,
" even in me grave ye won't let
me rest."

"■ Where are the papers ? " she inquired
fiercely.

*san angel fancied thin," was composedly
answered.

Madman," the former continued, livid
with anger, " return my money."

' The same honest angel tuck that
too."

*' Am I dreaming?" — the speaker was
now fairly beside herself with passion —
demanding, "Who put you there? what
are you going to do ? "

Unfortunately the same obleegin' angel
put me here, an' except yer ladyship helps
me, I'll be dead afore me time."

** You will be in ; but there," she

said, restraining herself, " I must get you
out, if but to show how I can revenge
myself on those who dare deceive me,"
motioning to her two male assistants who
stood mutely looking on ; they kneel
down, and stretching forward, grasped the
agent by the head, neck, and shoulders,
commencing to draw him upwards. Not
being a young and active man, this task
required great exertion ; however they had
just succeeded in bringing him to the
surface, when suddenly, from on every side
around, there rose up the most hideous
yelling, followed by the braying of asses,
howling of dogs, mewing of cats, grunting
of pigs, snorting of animals, and every
conceivable discordant sound, accompanied
by showers of earth and sand, while the
adjoining bushes and hedges shook frantically.


Irresistibly the unfortunate deputy was
allowed to fall heavily backwards upon
the unyielding coffin. Her ladyship and
confederates cutting pitiful figures, fleeing
as fast as their limbs would carry them,
forgetful of all but the burning desire to
escape from the terrible pandemonium,
peal after peal of unrestrained laughter
breaking from the Outlaw and his associates
at their successful simulation of
contentious nature.

At last, helping the Harcourt agent
forward, they all escaped over the outer
wall of the churchyard just as the sleepy
watchman began to exclaim, " What the
civil does the daemon hubbub mayne ? "

Chapter XI.

The dav broke on which the trial for the
possession of the title and estates appertaining
to the Lord of Harcourt was to
take place.

Everyone and everything seemed gladdened
by the joyous sun shining with
unwonted power, as though presaging the
victory of right over wrong in that much-debated,
fierce feud between two branches
of the ennobled family. Each point of
advantage remained tabulated and labelled
within the King'sBenchsecuringthe prized
place for some favoured occupant, while
in the outer hall of that magnificent pile

VOL. III. 12

on Ormond Quay known as the Four
Courts the wedged-in masses had been
gathering from early morn waiting the
moment when the Hall of Justice would
open, thereby reflecting the active, absorbing
interest manifested in the issue of
the 'grate thryal."

Dublin looked cheerful and gay, as is
its custom on fine days, but there was an
unmistakable paucity in the number of
passengers and sight-seers enjoying the
usual promenade from St. Stephen's Green
across the City by old Trinity, past that
chef-d'oeiLvre in architecture the Houses of
Parliament, now the Bank of Ireland,
through Westmoreland Street, thence over
Carlisle Bridge to the further end of that
princely boulevard Sackville Street.

Not that even an inconsiderable fraction
of those now absent from the public
resort could or would have been admitted

into Court, but none the less they traversed
the line of he Quays or Dame Street in
the hope of hearing how the " case " progressed.


Barristers of renown sought out their
privileged seat, taking precedence according
to rank over less fortunate sons of
the law ; and more than one retired legal
lord was seen housed upon the bench, to
witness the denouement of the notorious
Harcourt action.

That the heroine of over a dozen years
ago, who had recklessly imperilled her life
for a stranger, was now the petitioner as
wife or widow of this stranger whose end
none could yet clearly define, yielded
material enough to warrant an expectant
crowded audience ; but when it became
widely known that the popular English
baronet. Sir Mervyn Mervyn, stood in someway
associated with the claimant, and

even further, that the brave celebrated
outlaw 0' Grady actively assisted on her
side, the feeling of interest developed into
one of absolute anxiety to ascertain which
party gained the day.

General sympathy went with the petitioner,
as at once became evident when
she emerged from the handsome, well-known
equipage of the baronet who
conducted her into Court, the current
observations of the applauding observers
beiiig somewhat as follows : —

Arrah ! mam, that'll ye take an' save
me life ? " — good humoured inquired.

'^ Mer mali dict shun an her av she'd be
such a fool as to they," spontaneously rejoined.


^' How far 'ill yer maledictions carry? "
the first speaker repeated.

'' The ninth av me fist — will that shute

ye?"

*sav ye com' widen striking' distance
I'll giv' ye the compliments av the samson
for an answer ; — bud, murther, isn't shea
bewtay out-and-out ! "

^* Oh! a wonder intirely," assented the
good-tempered belligerents, while Lucy
Harcourt, pale but composed, took up
her station facing the bench,

there's the marley badger; look at
his pimpled hed."

^' A lord, how are ye ?— Tuppince hay-penny
for the title."

Make room, here's the moral av a
teddy, she's grateful to ' Ould Nick ' for
the husband he sint her, hurroosh, hurt
hiss, hiss, hiss."

^' They can't even appear daysint another
people's money," saluted the possessor
of Harcourt and his wife while
forcing their way inwards.

Lucy and Fanny were separated by a

short partition only ; but though the former
maintains a freezing yet becoming
hauteur, the latter casts furtive glances
towards that once bosom friend, hating her
more bitterly for the admiration her pensive
face and distingue air commanded.

The Lord-lieutenant is represented by
his Excellency's reappointed aide-de-camp,
Colonel Bagshot, who seems to be a very
gentlemanly old man indeed ; still, despite
his repeated efforts at conversing, Lucy
declines to surrender her studied reserve,
not having forgotten the " fly-boat "
incident, while thereupon others exhibit
a most convenient memory.

The well-known confidential agent of
Darecom't, Brien Flynn, Esq., has not yet
appeared, having become suddenly indisposed,
but he will attend later on
during the day.

It were idle to reproduce the stereotyped

speech of the claimant's counsel, which
failed in the expectations of many, as
instead of venturing on a resume of the
unusual, indeed sensational, incidents connected
with the suit, he abruptly abridged
it, exclaiming by way of peroration —

*^ My lord and gentlemen, never was a
case simpler yet more irrefutable in fact
than ours, and this vile fraud, detestable
as deception is at all times, becomes
heinous before God and man when you
remember that through it one of Ireland's
noblest, most intrepid of women has lost
a devoted husband whom she rescued
from the deep," — suppressed cheering —
'' that thereby she was for a long period
despoiled of every means of sustenance ;
yea, that to this unnatural crime, and to it
alone, she owes her career of over twelve
long weary years of sustained suffering and
silent, unknown woe, the authors whereof

defile the temple of unsullied justice in
the persons of this spurious lord and his
unmarried wife."

Great commotion followed the latter
statement, even the Judge involuntarily
forgetting his usual decorum gazing with
curiosity upon Fanny, who, he it honestly
noted, bore the scrutiny well, while Dorrington
looking furiously at the heated
advocate, vociferated, —

^^It is a false, monstrous lie; we are
married, here is the certificate " — handing
up the official document to the bench.

This spontaneous and manifestly genuine
act turned the scale in favour of the
possessors of Harcourt; indeed, the lady
revived amazingly, until having ended a
short consultation with his instructing
solicitor, the petitioner's counsel rose
again, and addressing the court, said, —

'' My lord, I call upon you to impound

that document," — indicating the tendered
certificate, adding, ^'I will now produce
my witnesses," whereupon every trace of
resistance on the female defendant's part
seemed to become evanescent and void.

With the assent of the Court the question
of handwriting was first disposed of. Expert
followed expert, each unhesitatingly
maintaining that the writing which the
present male accused admitted to be his
was identical with that in the letters
found at the residence of Eustace Dillon,
who, together with Vincent Harcourt, was
thereupon arrested, afterwards regaining
their liberty, as we have previously read,
through the assistance of 0' Grady.

**I will not seek," observed the eminent
Sawyer, " to justify this act of rescue and
flight which led up to the catastrophe of
Lord Harcourt's son being lost altogether
; had he publicly rebutted the

unfounded charge there and then, the
fraud must have been nipped in its infancy,
but probably the originators judged
that their victim would resort to what was
almost excusable under the circumstances,
namely, an escape ; if so they too well
succeeded, as with Vincent Harcourt's
enforced absence the field lay open for the
full accomplishment of this unapproachable
swindle."

All reference to the abstraction of the
letters from the Lord-lieutenant was
carefully avoided. The appearance of
Robert Arkwright in the witness-box excited
much comment amongst those who
recollected, or had heard of his career informer
days. In a natural, easy, and unconstrained
manner he described his several
interviews with Dorrington Harcourt and
Brien Flynn, the purport of their conversation,
and what was afterwards effected

in furtherance of the plans then mutually
agreed upon ; but his painful emotion
when acknowledging to having signed the
forged last will and testament of the late"
lord, as published, in conjunction with
Flynn, knowing the same to be false, and
done for the purpose of defrauding Vincent
of his legitimate inheritance, transferring
it to his cousin, awoke great agitation,
which became intensified by the
nephew of the Harcourt agent swearing
that the several deeds then in his hand,
whereupon the claim of Dorrington was
founded, were written by him in obedience
to the mandate of his uncle. Producing
this order, the witness pointed out that it
bore a date rendering the existence of the
will at the time specified an impossibility,
the latter being antecedent to the former.
The short cross-examination in both
instances only increased the weight of the

given testimony, and a very appreciable
conviction settled upon the assembly that
the petitioner would establish her claim,
notwithstanding the listless air of nonchalance
assumed by the defendants. It
was now observed in the heated chamber
that the day had suddenly changed from
sunshine to darkness, foreshadowing a
violent atmospherical commotion.

^^ Send for Flynn," said the male defendant
authoritatively to his solicitor,
^'let him attend at once," and the trial
proceeded.

I do not know, my lord, that I need
occupy the valuable time of the Court
any longer ; " lifting a large bag full of
parchments on to the green baize table,
'^ here are the veritable titles to the disputed
estate, the marriage settlement upon
the late Lady Harcourt, and the will of
her consort, confirming every iota that he

had power over, real and personal, to their
only son Vincent, the name of this surreptitious
craven impostor, being wholly
unknown or unacknowledged therein."

The counsel then added, '^ Messrs. ,

solicitors for the petitioner, who also acted
as legal representatives for the lords of
Harcourt until its usurpation by this
plain Mr. Dorrington Harcourt" — with
emphasis — ^' will swear to the preparation
and legal execution of these instruments ;
and this person," indicating Fanny, *' presumptuously
styling herself Lady Dare-court,
can tell, if she wishes, how she
failed in gaining possession of them last
night — another phase of the fraudulent
transaction — because that happily we
were beforehand with her."

The energetic advocate was suddenly
called outside just as the pent-up storm
burst forth with startling fury.

'' Close the windows and draw the
curtains," exclaimed the Judge, every eye
quailing before that blue livid flame traversing
the Hall of Justice.

Ere the usher and others had had time
to do as his lordship commanded, on came
the redoubled peals of deafening sound
which seemed to make the Court reel,
while the concurrent flash of electric fluid
was dazzling in its vivid power.

'^ My lord," proceeded the claimant's
lawyer, speaking solemnly, *' I have been
summoned to the Hall to receive these
papers, taken half-an-hour ago from the
dead body of the agent and conspirator
Brien Flynn ; " — great sensation — "of
course it is impossible to examine them
at this moment ; but I have read sufficient
already to show that this evil man and his
deceased servile confederate acted a cruel
part indeed.

*there," lie went on, ** are heart-broken
letters, written by the late Lord Dareconrt
shortly before he expired to his only child "
(Lucy was now much affected, while
Sir Mervyn Mervyn bit his lips, angrily
regarding the immovable defendants in
front), '^ begging him to return home for a
dying parent's blessing ; again," he added,
I find a few strongly affectionate appeals
from Vincent to his father, both
of course having been intercepted by
these guilty associates in a gross, audacious
conspiracy, for which one has
been deservedly cited to judgment on
High, while the others await it at the
bar of justice here, in your verdict of
retributive impartiality to my defrauded,
long-suffering client."

"My lord, my lord ! stop that gentleman
leaving the Court," passionately implored
the male accused, pointing to the door

whereat stood the unknown from Swords.
'''I cannot satisfactorily support my case,"
continued the supplicant, '4n the absence
of Brien Flynn, but at least I shall prove
the legality of our union."

As the person indicated hesitatingly
advanced to the Bench, the baronet earnestly
searched his bronzed features, while
Lucy having briefly looked towards him,
turned her eyes listlessly away.

*' My lord," observed the stranger in a
fixed voice, " it will spare unnecessary
details by my stating that I married these
defendants, but I must respectfully decline
to be sworn thereupon."

^'We cannot permit of such trifling,"
responded the Judge in accents of rebuke.


'^ My lord, the ceremony took place onboard
ship several miles from the foreshore,"
was suggestively replied.

^^ But you did unite us ? " inquired the
defendant.

Yes ; I was constrained to go through
that formulary."

*^ Is this your signature, — Eev. Eandall
Massey?" demanded the Judge, holding
up the impounded, well-preserved certificate.


*^ It is, my lord."

^^ Then why not be sworn upon it ? "

*^ Merely to spare this lady, my lords
pointing to where Fanny stood.

^* Spare the lady ! " resounded through
the Hall, while she tottered to her seat.

'* Cease this absurd comedy in presence
of the Law, sir ! " came from the Bench
'mid growing excitement.

*^ My lord," proceeded the reluctant
witness, 'the celebration of marriage was
wrong on my side."

Wrong!" echoed the male defendant.

VOL. III. 13

*' Yes ; I own it with regret. To save
the Hfe of my friend and myself, I went
through the office, although I am not a
clergyman."

Amid the ensuing tumult the dispenser
of justice with great severity asked, —

'' If you are not a clergyman, pray what
may you lawfully be called ? "

'' A gentleman, my lord."

All eyes are now concentrated upon that
calm, long-bearded stranger.

'how do you reconcile such ignoble conduct,
mocking a solemn ordinance, with
that becoming in what you claim to be?"

'^ My lord, it secured my friend's life
and my own," hesitating.

'what more have you to add, sir?"
angrily rejoined the aged Chief Justice.

I promptly told the lady she was not
honestly married, and that I regretted
being coerced into the dissembling act."

^' Who are yon, miscreant?" roared the
astounded defendant Dorrington.

** Vincent Harcourt," came slowly and
composedly in reply.

CHAPTEK XII.

Great and universal was the joy everywhere
exhibited at the success of the petitioner
in the memorable trial, heightened
as it became by the reuniting of Lucy and
her long-lost husband in such an unexpected
manner.

From Dublin to Malahide and far down
the undulating coast bells rang out their
merry, tuneful peals at the result, while
adjoining the Harcourt estate triumphal
arches were erected in a marvellously
short time welcoming back its new and
lawful owners.

In friendly rivalry the tenantry of Sir

Mervyn Mervyn competed with their neighbours,
emulating the process of floral
greeting, and surely the best *bib and
tucker" were put on by the crowd passing,
no, no, not passing the '^ Harcourt
Arms " until they have therein drunk the
health of the young lord '^ and her beautiful
1 eddy ship," afterwards adding to that mass
of humanity surging towards the principal
entrance to the castle.

The well-known hostelry was indeed en
fete, festoons and gaudy papers, interspersed
with branches of holly, being
promiscuously thrust in amid glittering
tin pots, yellow crockery ware, and rickety,
disused barrels ; while to the wonder of
conjecturing customers the venerated chair
was no longer left to its sleep of the
past, but banishing every particle of dust
therefrom, which could only have accrued
within the last few moments — Mistress

Gaffer had a habit of throwing her apron
at it each time she passed — the landlord
placed it in the position ordinarily occupied
by himself, and henceforth it would become
his nightly seat. Blatherbill never looked
so profoundly happy as now, and oh, if a
lie had to be manufactured, or some marvel
concocted in a surprisingly short period,
was he not in a mood to gratify the most
sceptical ? indeed, this redundancy of spirit
at last, as he said to his wife, '^ threw the
vint peg out av his brain, an' he should
tell her a narrative."

'^ Git a gon wit ye," she retorted, '^ ye
innishint craythure, ye would me a story
the day I had the misfortune to let ye clap
a ring an me finger, an' I must forget that
afore I belay ve another."

The arrival of an enormous supply of
spirituous liquid at this moment terminated
the conjugal repartee, and doubtless

spared the landlady the necessity of listening
to her whiff spouse perpetrating the
latest fabrication, for Blatherbill was very
autocratic and absolute in securing attention
during his favourite pastime.

** Av course the new lord 'ill pay for this
stock," suggested the purveyor's assistant,
depositing the last instalment of that
wide array of barrels and jars forming the
'^ mighty order " from the " Harcourt
Arms."

^^ Av course he won't be allowed to pay
wan shall farthing," responded the landlord,
assuming a tone and look of swelling
importance.

** Begor the amount id destroy any man
bud yersel', Mister Gaffer."

^^ Ay, an' I'd willingly robin mesel' forsake
av the tinder teddy coming' home today,"
was warmly volunteered.

It became evident, however, that his

better half did not appreciate this heroic

abnegation, as she shouted from the other

end of the shop, —

*' Peter, yer lies 'ill be yer rooina-

shun."

Here they are, hurrah ! hurrah ! "
rose up from a multitude of voices, and
forgetting the ordinary assertion, '^ av
having' id out another tiraeV Blatherbill
waddled into the road to smoke his pipe,
and present his ^' congratymilashuns " to
the new lord and ^' teddy."

The vehicle of Sir Mervyn Mervyn inrich
showy livery and ornate housings
now approached, wherein sat Lucy looking
pale and reflective, while her much-altered
husband seemed to feel deeply the
spontaneous welcome everywhere accorded
to them. The baronet unmistakably enjoyed
the scene; next to him being Eustace ,
Dillon, dark, immovable, and impassable

as though he lived without knowing or
realizing existence.

The horses had been taken from the
carriage, which was pulled along at a slow
jog-trot by the many willing hands ever
ready to assume their honoured former
places. It could never be satisfactorily
accounted for, how that in unspoken accord
the equipage slipped opposite to the ' ' Dare-court
Arms," except that as the landlord
was seen approaching with a grave air of
importance, procedure became impossible
until he had combed out whatever was
troubling his brain, and certainly the
thinker scratched his head with severity,
resolving, 'snow is me time to pordhuce a
riputashun, av I only git a chance to knock a
few shuparyor words into their empty nuts,"
when after a deep inspiration and polishing
both hands in his apron, he commenced, —

"Teddy Darecoort an' yer unfortunate

husband," — visible merriment in the carriage
and concern among the crowd arrested
his attention — '^I beg yer pardon," he faltered
confusedly, ''I mayne '*

"Yer a liar, but yer not mayne,"
escaped from Cup-o'-Tay, who with Tom
had been foremost in the equine occupation.


In prince av leddys, no wan shut
tell tooth," retorted the would-be orator
with marked seriousness.

Even Lucy joined in the enforced mirth
attending this severe proof of pompous
innocence ; the only one who consistently
declined to laugh was Blatherbill himself;
however, believing it would be wiser to
follow the general example, he tardily
parted his lips, but still with such an
obvious look of not understanding its cause
that the amusement grew stronger against
mine host.

Lord Harcourt resolved on coming to
the rescue of the well-intentioned, floundering
landlord, while Cup-o'-Tay's companion,
Tom, determined on something
else as he left the ranks of the procession
and crossed the road.

''I am extremely grateful," said their
new patron, "for this proof of your good
feeling towards myself and Lady Dare-court
; long may we continue to live on the
same terms ; and indeed nothing can be
more likely, whilst you possess those
sentiments towards us so eloquently expressed
by my friend here," indicating the
proprietor of the "Harcourt Arms."

In the earlier part of the noble
speaker's felicitous remarks, Blatherbill
stood savagely subdued, feeling appreciably
that the Muses were from home when
he had called upon them; but the instant
his lordship designated him as his " eloquent

friend," the pulse of the innkeeper
fired up with electrical effect.

'' D'ye hear that," he shouted. '' I'm
the friend of a rays live lord, an' an illigant
speaker beside."

'^ Oh, me lord, shake hands an id," he
plaintively urged, leaning half-way over
the vehicle in a hot perspiration, continuing,
^'av ever ye want a drink or a
night's lodging', don't pass the sign av
the — oh, holy murther, I'm kilt, I'm
dead," and the next instant Blatherbill lay
rolling like an elephant on the road,
while cheers and yells of delight rent the
air as the carriage was drawn forward,
its occupants being almost giddy with
recurring laughter.

Looking fixedly towards Lord Dare-court,
with his arm outstretched, mine
host observed his lordship move reciprocating
towards him ; but ah, what he

had grasped with the tightness of rapt
delight could not be Lord Harcourt's hand,
alas ! no, it was the smithy's iron almost
liquid in red heat, which Tom adroitly
introduced at the right moment.

As his wife bent over him with her
efficacious village nostrums, Blatherbill
observed hopefully and emotionally, —

'' Av I'm spared now I'll never tell
another lie ; never, never."

A joyous company are those assembled
in Harcourt Castle when the hour is fast
approaching midnight.

Vincent and Eustace had shown the
false letters received by them representing
Lucy as about to be married to the English
baronet, now recognized as the creation of
Fanny Chalmers, on the strength whereof
her husband had written the reproachful
missives produced by her assailant in
Feltram Wood.

His recovery fi*om supposed death was
also accounted for, together with that
mysterious appearance outside of the
window at Howth and his subsequent
jumping into the sea, being rescued
therefrom by 0' Grady.

Thus ruminating over the past, they
speak of the present, Vincent and Mervyn
cementing a friendship of bygone years
by replete mutual explanations.

Publicly upbraiding his supposed wife
with being the cause of their discomfiture,
the false lord fled out of Court, abandoning
her and his child. Lucy sent, offering to
ameliorate the position of her former friend,
who at all events was a mother, but during
the evening there came a reply from the
outcast of wormwood and gall effectually
driving its author from further consideration.


It was the Outlaw who had tracked

Brien Flynn to the secret room under the
Abbey, where he lay dead beneath that
immense chest of gold, his manifest intention
being to escape therewith whilst
his confederates were detained in Court ;
but in poising it the mass overturned,
and, a victim to deep-drawn avarice, his
unjust life met with a meet reward,
crushed by the weight of those dishonest
accumulation.

Robert Arkwright and his wife are
guests at Harcourt, looking happy 'and
content in each other, although without
children to bless their declining days, and
as the clock points to half past eleven never
was brighter, more unaffected joy than this
radiating between those whom sorrow had
chastened and adversity softened, thereby
elevating them nearer to that standard of
benevolent humility which has ere now
characterized the greatest of mankind.

*' How very odd," observed Lord Dare-court,
'rit wants but half an hour of midnight,
yet 0' Grady is absent."

'' What will be our triumph, Vincent dear,
if he does not share it? " said his wife.

'' His manner and words of last night
have seriously impressed me," continued
her noble husband, 'ras evidently pointing
to some great crisis in his career."

I protest there shall be a crisis in his
career, the bravest, most disinterested
fellow in the whole world," exclaimed the
baronet warmly.

Lucy's eyes, already full of animation,
glowed anew as she affirmed, —

"I would cheerfully surrender all that
I possess or call mine own to secure his
happiness, not you of course" — to her
restored liege, who simulated a surprised
look, — "but I fear it will be impossible
to wean him from that resolve of living in

solitude, althoiigli, Thanks to you, Sir
Mervyn, the Government no longer desires
his arrest."

^' I want to escape from womankind fora
year or two," volunteered the recipient
of her thanks with an open smile, *why
should we not both travel together ? "

^^ Her ladyship's estimate is well
founded," interposed Arkwright, boldly.
^' I have known 0' Grady from a boy, and
rest assured that no human being can
induce him to leave Ireland, or to forego
his hermit-like life."

*^ Admirably spoken, and I thank you
for the truthful words," came from the
Outlaw himself, as unperceived he glided
into their midst.

^' Ah! " inquired Lucy plaintively, ^^ why
leave us all these hours marvelling at your
absence? surely," she added reproachfully,
^* you might have given us a thought."

VOL. III. 14

'' Fire ! fire ! the castle's on fire ! " now
pealed through the building, while the
sound of tumultuous voices and feet came
rushing to the drawing-room, where all
started up as the door was burst open
and the cries repeated.

You are too late, my good people ; go
home content, the fire is extinguished,"
enjoined the patriot.

^' We saw id just this minnie, yer honour,"
was collectively and firmly pleaded.

'' From the village you mean ? "

*' Yis, yer honour."

My friends, in this well-intended ardour
you forget the long uphill distance, but be
satisfied, when you go back there will not
be anything to alarm you," and the reassured
crowd with a cheer betook themselves
to enjoy the good things provided
by Lord Harcourt.

'which accounts for the prolonged

absence that we chided you upon," observed
Lucy, ^^ though the while you were as
usual imperilling your life to save others."

'^ I tracked that false woman, Fanny
Chalmers, to the basement of the castle,
and silently watched her stack the materials
for the incendiary exploit, which,
when she had fired, I tossed to the winds,
thereby doubtless awaking the consternation
of the good people of the village."

*^ May she not find other means conjuring
us ? " asked the exalted hostess.

** None ; having told me she had written
to mislead you, I warned her never again
to be seen near this place, or that I would
reach her through her son. * You hold
your own existence valueless as it has
proved worthless. But beware,' I urged ;
your child remains ; foster it. There
is no father left to acknowledge him now,
do not disregard a mother's office. Twice

you were spared — the next time you
shall forfeit your son ; ' and I reached
her maternal love, when the instinct of
self was gone."

The wife of the Outlaw's noble host
rose up impulsively, moving to him with
outstretched hands, saying, —

** Another proof that Lucy Harcourt
grows deeper your debtor hour by hour
until the time has come when in justice
she must ask you to blot out this compound
obligation by "

^^ Mistress of Harcourt," he interrupted
with a dignity and solemnity of word and
manner that awed his observers, as, shaking
the locks back from his massive forehead,
he looked with a pensive glance into Lucy's
full expectant face, 'take from me the
last sacred impress of affection's benediction,"
— kissing her forehead, — 'sit is
the poor rebel's only patrimony, and

never more will human joy be mine,
although contentment may bless my
wearied eyes before they close in their
final sleep. In the days to come, when
remembering him whom yon once have
known, it were best to think he is at peace,
although his distracted soul is weary with
the unequal struggle against separation
from all he ever loved or cherished. An
unnatural contest, wherein death alone can
prove the victor, the welcome end of a long
life's hazard to him now known no more
as the lonely Outlaw of Wentworth Waste . ' '

The agitated enthusiast abruptly rushed
from the room, while his auditors remained
transfixed in dumb emotion.

Recovering herself. Lady Harcourt ran
to the window, which she forced wide open,
calling aloud towards that shrouded, black
avenue in front, —

become back! — I conjure you! — by the

memory of yom dead mother's love, of
Ireland's green sainted hills, the land you
served so nobly, do not leave us," and
they stood silently listening, while each
bosom suspended its lifelong action.

The cold, cruel night-wind at last floated
upwards from the far end of that dense
tree-clad walk, bearing the mournful dirge,
^'No more! no more!" and ever afterwards,
while all of those now assembled
in heart-broken sorrow at that casement,
survived, fighting life's fitful battle of
joy or strife, they neither saw nor heard
again of Michael 0' Grady.

THE END.
