f ^ -^ fw ' ,1'

^.LfAPJfOM

^-*^^^-^*^^^^

/ . '^ i 0^

ov'



Ti'PM

MIRACLE GOLD. By Richard Dowung. 3 vols.

IDLE TALES. By Mrs. Liddell. 1 vol.

MOLLY'S STORY. By Frank MERUYFiET.n. :^ vols.

FOR FREEDOM. By Tithe Hopkins. 2 vol?.

LADY STELLA AND HER LOVER. By H. Solly, n vols.

A VOICE IN THE WILDERNESS. By Caroline

FOTHERGILL. ^ VOls.

WARD .V: DOWNEY, Publishers, London.

§. Iloitl.

B. L. FARJEON,

AUTHOR OF
GREAT PORTER SQUARE," "Grief," " I\ A SILVER SEA." 'the HOUSE
OF WFIITE SHADOWS," ETC.

IN THREE VOL Uses.

VOL. I.

fSonbon :
WARD & DOWNEY,
12 , YO R K STREET, CO V E N T GARDEN

1888.
[Dramatic i'n/Jtf.<t j:>?v>frf'frf7 acid rcsn'red .]

CONTENTS

cigar,

I. — The Last of the Care-takes
II. — Miser Fakebrotiiek reconnoitres the Ground

AND receives A ShOCK .

III. — The New Tenants arrive, and one departs

IV. — Phoebe and the Angels

V. —Mrs. Pamflett recommends a New Clerk to the

Miser .

vi. — a very small boy covers himself with glory

\^II. — Miser Farebrother envies Faust

VIII. — A Day-Dreamer in London .Streets

IX. A New Domestic Drama, bv Uncle Let

X. — 'Amelia Jane, Goddess of Pots and Pans

XI. — Kiss has Something to say about Theatrical

Managers

XII. — The Reading of the New Play .

XIII. — Curl-fairer Confidences .

XIV. — A Bit of Edelweiss

XV. — Jeremiah Pamflett's Opinions of Girls .

XVI. — Tom Barley has a Scene with the Miser

XVII. — Fanny confides a Secret to her Mother

Xvii. — Mrs. Pamflett develops a sudden Affection

Phoebe .

XIX. — A Beautiful Birthday

page

























21S





:o:

CHAPTER I.

THE LAST OF THE CARE-TAKERS.

In Dropmore Beeches, near Beddington, county of Surrey,
stands a red brick mansion, in the Gothic style, known as
Parksides. It is situated on the outskirts of an estate of
forty acres, comprised of a few acres of cover, and, for the
rest, of shrubberies, meadow-land, and a wilderness wood,
upon the arrangement of which great care had been bestowed
and a vast amount of money expended. This was
in the old days, when the house had been occupied by a
family of good standing, the heirs of which had resided in
it for many generations. Pride was taken in it then, and it

was^deservedly renowned for its beauty. The country people
^" VOL. I. 1

round about quoted Parksides as a possession which reflected
honour upon themselves, and the vicarious distinction was
accounted of high value. They had good reasons for being
proud of it, and of its masters and mistresses, who were to
the fore not only in the county but in the metropolis. The
gentlemen fought for King and country, and administered
the laws ; the ladies dispensed charities and set the
fashions ; they attended Court, hunted, travelled, and held
their heads high, as was their due. But other times, other
men. The family that had owned Parksides for centuries
slipped out of the ranks — for which they had none but
themselves to blame. A strain of foreign blood was introduced
by marriage, and the heir born of that union
inherited the vices of his mother's family. He ran his
course merrily; and after him a spendthrift heir, and after
him another, reaped what had been bred and zealously
cultivated in the bone. They played the part of absentees,
and plunged into the fashionable dissipations of the city —
raked, and made matches on the race-courses, rattled the
dice-box from night till morning, were always ready for any
mad prank, drank deeply, and borrowed at exorbitant interest

— until they had thoroughly succeeded in squandering
their fortune. It was too late, then, for repentance : Park-sides
was lost to them and theirs for ever. There had been
long and complicated law proceedings in connection with
the estate, and at the period of the opening of this story it
was supposed to be in Chancery — which troubled itself not
at all in the matter — and to have no rightful or legal
owner. Nevertheless, it was occupied by a man who had
earned the name of Miser Farebrother, who paid rent to
no one, and was not called upon to do so. It was really
doubtful whether any person had authority to demand it ;
and if a claimant had come forward, his right would have
been stubbornly contested by Miser Farebrother, who had
papers in his fire proof safe proving, in some entangled way,
that he had advanced money upon the estate which entitled
him to possession. The lawyers, for a great number of
years, had gathered rich harvests out of Parksides, and,
after picking its bones clean and involving it in legal complications
which the entire learned profession could not
have unravelled, had turned their backs upon it and flown

to more profitable game. Its fate, long before it fell into

1-2

the hands of Miser Farebrother, may be described in one
word — decay. The wilderness wood, the wild charms of
which had been preserved with much care and skill, was
so encumbered with stunted wood growth and overrun with
giant weeds that it resembled a miniature Forest of Despair ;
the shrubberies were wrecks ; the meadow-land was thick
with tufts of rank grass ; and the only part of the estate
which had thriven was the cover, in which the rabbits
literally swarmed, spreading destruction all around. Not a
shilling did Miser Farebrother expend upon the grounds —
a proof that he did not regard his rights as absolutely incontestable.
He had a keen eye for the main chance,
and money could have been laid out on the land with profit,
both in the present and the future ; but he was not the man
to waste the smallest coin upon a doubtful venture. "Safe
and sure" had been his motto all through his life, and from
a worldly point of view he had made it pay.

He took possession of Parksides in the dead of night.
For at least a dozen years it had been without a tenant, and
for many years before that time its only inmates had been
the care-takers appointed by the Courts and the lawyers.

The last of these care-takers were a very old man and a
very old woman of the name of Barley, who were supposed
to have died of starvation in the house. It was said that
there were long arrears of wages due to them, which were
never paid, because the last shilling of the available funds
lead been swept away by wig and gown. No one cared to
assume responsibility in the matter, and so this old couple
were left in possession to do as they pleased. They had
come from a distance to enter upon their duties, and nobody
in the neighbourhood knew anything about them or their
antecedents ; nor was it known how they came to be appointed.
That they were the poorest of the poor was clear
all that they brought with them to Parksides were a stick
and a bundle. The old man carried the stick, and the old
woman the bundle.

How they subsisted was a mystery. In the autumn they
were in the habit of picking up bits of broken branches and
carrying them into the house, presumably to serve in lieu of
coals when winter came on. Both of them were bent nearly
double with old age and rheumatism. Occasionally they
would be seen sitting on a log, very close to each other, with

a little pile of stones before them, which they shied with weak
and trembling hands at a rabbit or a bird, or at shadows
which they mistook for living creatures. They never by any
chance hit anything they aimed at, and they did not even
succeed in frightening the birds or the rabbits, which darted
hither and thither and hopped about quite near to them in
the most unconcerned fashion. During the latter years of
their tenancy one or other of the old people would sometimes
be seen, when the weather was fine, creeping out of
Parksides and out of Beddington, starting early in the morning
and returning late at night. On these occasions it was
observed that they carried a parcel, which without further
evidence it was decided was something abstracted from the
mansion, which they were travelling to a distance to sell, in
order to obtain food ; and it was also decided that they did
not dispose of these articles in the immediate neighbourhood
of Beddington, lest they should be accused of theft.
If this were really the case, the old couple might have dismissed
their fears ; the difficulty of finding a prosecutor
would have been insurmountable ; and as to portable property
of a sufficiently small size to be tied up in a pocket

handkerchief, there was little enough of that in the mansion.
All that was valuable and of easy carriage had long since
been seized and sold, lawfully or unlawfully. The ruin of
Parksides was not a grand crash, in the thunder of which
lightning-flashes of old glories made themselves visible ; it
was a long and mean decline, made up of piecemeal borrowings
and bit-by-bit sales ; of filings and small robberies,
a few feathers by this sharp rogue, a few feathers by that,
from the plumage of the birds that were once the pride of
the country. There was certainly plenty of old furniture in
the house, which had been allowed to remain, probably
because it was heavy and cumbersome and falling to pieces
bedsteads, tables, chairs, benches and sideboards, quaintly
and curiously carved ; rich tapestries too, mostly worn to
shreds, and rotted by age and neglect, in which old stories
hid been woven by fair hands. They and the gallant deeds
they recorded were now on an equality ; the reflected radiance
of stately seasons of honourable life and dignified
labour was utterly and for ever dead, leaving no soul behind ;
the story was told, and flesh and silk were little better than
dust. There were not any pictures in frames in the rooms ;

but there were paintings on the wall panels, so faded now
and colourless that the learning of an antiquary were needed
to describe them.

Amidst these ancient surroundings the last of the caretakers,
old Mr. and Mrs. Barley, moved and stan-ed. One
can imagine them creeping up the wide staircases, and
tottering about the rooms, living ghosts, clinging to each
other for support (they were both past seventy, and chronically
weak from want of proper nourishment), wondering
whether they had not reached the dead world upon the
brink of which they stood. There came a hard winter, and
a fall of snow which lasted intermittently, but pretty steadily,
nevertheless, for a full fortnight. It was during this winter
that an incident occurred in the career of the last of the
cire-takers.

Said a gossip to a kindred heart, trudging through the
snow at least a hundred yards for the purpose, " My man,
coming home from work last night, passed the gates of
Parksides."

*' He does always, doesn't he ?'' was the response, evincing
in the querist an ungracious spirit, for Gossip Number Two

was aware that her neighbour had not walked ankle-deep in
the coldest of carpets to impart this information.

"Yes, he does always, when he doesn't go another
way."

What other way ? "

The way of the Hog in the Pound'' (For comprehension
to uninformed minds, a public-house.)

"That's the way he likes best," observed Gossip Number
Two, still with the ungracious spirit upon her.

You needn't boast," said Gossip Number One ; " your
man leaves half his wages there."

Yes ; worse luck ! But what about Parksides ? ''

He saw a woman going in."

"Old Mrs. Barley?"

No ; a youngish woman, looking like a beggar, with a
boy holding on to her."

"A tramp ! The Barleys can't help her — can't help themselves."


"She asked my man whether that was Parksides, and
whether a married couple of the name of Barley lived there.
Lives there ! ' says my man to her. ' Starves there, would.

b3 nearer the truth.' The woman gave a sigh, and passed

into the grounds."

Is that all ? " asked Gossip Number Two, disappointed
in a story so bare of incident.

"That's all," replied Gossip Number One. "Leastways
it's all my man told me."

It ain't much."

No, it ain't. But," added Gossip Number One, cheerfully
illogical, her temperament being livelier than that of
her neighbour, " what can we expect in such weather ? Just
look how the snow's coming down again ! "

This shifting of responsibility from a colourless story to
a remarkable storm — which, despite its inconveniences, was
interesting because it afforded a sound theme for conversation
— somewhat mollified Gossip Number Two, who, accompanied
by her visitor, stepped to the window to gaze upon
the whirling flakes. They were thick and heavy, and a
strong, uncertain wind was lashing them furiously about,
th's way and that, with a bewildering lack of method which
furnished an exception to the indisputable truth that order
is nature's first law. The window through which the gossips

were looking was in the front room of the cottage, and faced
the narrow lane which led to the main road. Along this
lane a woman was walking, with a little boy scarcely three
years of age tugging at her gown. Presently they reached
the cottage, where the woman paused to wipe the snow
from her face and eyes. She was very poorly dressed, and
belonged evidently to the lower orders.

Is that her ? " asked Gossip Number Two.

It might be. She's got a little boy with her, and she
looks like a beggar. Let's have her in."

Candour compels the admission that it was not an instinct
of hospitality or humanity that prompted the suggestion. It
was simply curiosity to discover what connection existed
between the poor woman and her child and old Mr. and
Mrs. Barley.

There was not much to learn. The last of the care-takers
were her parents. Having lost her husband, and being at
her wits' end how to live, she had tramped a matter of sixty
miles to Parksides in the hope that her parents might be
able to assist her. Her hope was shattered the moment she
saw them. So desperate were their circumstances that she

would stop with them only one night, and she was now on
her way back to her native town, in which, at all events, she
had a claim upon the poor-house. She did not complain.
She had been so used to poverty and hardships that she
harboured them without a murmur, but she said it was bitter
weather, and she did not know how ever she would get
home again. While she was telling her tale, sitting by the
fireside— for the warmth of which she expressed herself
humbly thankful— the little fellow in her lap fell asleep.

What is his name ? "

Tom — after his poor father," said the woman.

Gossip Number One looked at Gossip Number Two, who
nodded, and going to the cupboard took therefrom a teapot,
a tea-caddy, and a loaf of bread. A full kettle was steaming
on the hob. As th woman raised her head, her hostess
saw tears glistening in her eyes.

"There, there, my dear," she said, "we none of us know
what we may come to. A cup of tea '11 warm your inside.
And, I declare ! it's left off snowing again ! "

Half an hour afterward the woman, having thanked her
entertainers, resumed her journey, and the gossips stood on

the doorstep and gazed at her vanishing form until a turn in
the narrow lane hid her from their sight. Comforting food
and human sympathy had strengthened her, and she
was carrying her child, who, as his mother declared,
was almost "dead with sleep." Strange and subtle
are the invisible links which connect life with life
and already one was spiritually forged between the
slumbering lad and men and women who will play their
parts in this story of human love and passion and suffering
and desire.

In the ancient decayed house yonder old Mr. and Mrs.
Barley were talking in quavering tones of their Jane, who
had paid them her last earthly visit.

She'll marry again, mother, will our Jane," piped the old
man ; " she was always a taking lass. It's only yesterday
she was in pinafores."

For three years longer the Barleys remained tenants of
Parksides, and then departed for another bourne. It was
bruited about the neighbourhood that they had been found
dead in the kitchen, clasped in each other's arms. So little
had been seen of them during the last years of their tenancy

that but small interest had been taken in them. They
troubled nobody, and nobody troubled them. But being
dead, the case was different ; popular fancy placed them on
a pinnacle, and they became distinguished.

So the Barleys have gone," was said. "Who'll be the
next ? "

No records are to hand throwing light upon what was
done with their bodies ; among the uninformed the general
belief was that they were not buried, but that they " disappeared."
Of course their spirits remained, to the comfort
of superstitious souls still in the flesh. There was a talk of
"ghosts," and the ball, being set rolling, grew apace. The
natural consequence was that Parksides acquired the reputation
of being a haunted house. The ghosts of the old
people were seen by many persons of all ages — who were
ready to testify to the same in the witness box — standing at
the windows, or moving familiarly about the grounds, or
seated on the roof top ; always very lovingly arm in arm.
Not in the memory of the oldest inhabitant had such an
enjoyable excitement been furnished, and the superstition
caused Parksides to be avoided at night-time. Those who

were fearsomely courageous enough to make a special excursion
to " see the ghosts " always went in company, and
always came back with white faces and trembling limbs.
Children would huddle together in a shrinking heap, standing
so for a few minutes, and then, startled into active
movement by a sudden cry from one among them, would
scream : " There they are ! Oh ! oh ! They're coming
after us ! " and would scamper off as fast as their legs would
carry them ; until, at a safe distance, they would pause,
breathless, to compare notes.

Here was a chance for the imagination, and it ran riot.
No speculation was too extravagant.

Did yoic see them ? / did ! What did they look like ?
Like what they are, you dunce — ghosts ! Old Barley had a
nightcap on. So had she. They were all in white. He was
smoking a pipe. Did you see the fire coming out of his
mouth ? He blew it at us. Yes, and when they saw we
didn't go away they got up, and grew and grew till they
were higher than the trees ! Johnny, come home with me
to mother She wouldn't believe me when I told her. Oh,
didn't they look awful ! "

Uninteresting as old Mr. and Mrs. Barley had been
during their lifetime, it cannot be denied that their ghosts
supplied an entertainment better than any theatre.

MISER FAREEROTHER RECONNOITRES THE GROUND AND
RECEIVES A SHOCK.

This condition of affairs favoured Miser Farebrother, when,
in pursuance of a cunningly-formed plan, he took possession
of the estate. Already he claimed to have a hold
upon it, and who had a better right than he to live there
rent free ? There was a fascination in the prospect. To
live rent free ! To have a house and land all one's own I
There would be a claim for Queen's taxes, perhaps, and
rates. Well he would pay a little — as little as possible.
The government receipts would go a long way to strengthen
his hold upon the property. The rent of his house in
London was ruinous. In so many years he would be so
much money in pocket — a fortune. Then, he had heard
and read that if a man lived in a house for a certain time

without paying rent, it became legally and lawfully his own,
VOL. L 2

to sell or do what he liked with. It was a bold step, but

the prize was so valuable that he would risk it.

He made two preliminary investigations of the property,
and as everything depended upon secrecy, these visits were
paid in the night when nobody was about. He knew
nothing of the popular belief that the place was haunted.

On the first of these visits he was undisturbed. He crept
into the grounds within a few minutes of midnight, and
made his way to a back door. It yielded to his touch.
He lit a candle which he had brought with him, and
entered. All was still and lonely ; not a sound reached
his ears ; there was not a crumb in the mansion upon
which even a rat or a mouse could live. Stealthily and
warily he made a tour of the rooms, shading the light
with his hand when he was near a window. There
was small need for such a precaution, but he took it,
nevertheless.

Safe and sure ! " he muttered — " safe and sure ! "

He was gratified and amazed to discover so many pieces
of old furniture in the house ; and he made out a list upon
paper of what it would be necessary to bring with him when

he actually took possession : his desk, containing his private
papers and account-books, in which were entered his precious
transactions ; a few pots and pans, and some sheets
and blankets ; the personal clothing his wife would attend
to. These things could be put into a cart, and a single
horse would be sufficient to convey them from London.
He had ascertained the distance — between fifteen and
sixteen miles. He and his wife and child could ride in
the cart. So much saved !

Determining to come again before the final step was
taken, he left the house at two in the morning as secretly
and quietly as he had entered it.

His second visit was paid in the course of the following
week, at about the same hour of the night. He entered
the house, again without being disturbed, and lighting his
candle, made another tour of the rooms. He stood in one
which had been a principal bedroom, and he resolved to
turn it to the same use. On this occasion he made a more
careful examination of the furniture, which, in consequence
of the craze for the antique, he knew to be worth a great deal
of money ; and he was rubbing his hands with g^.ee, having

o o

placed the candle on a table, and was thinking, " All mine !
all mine ! " when a sound from the bedstead almost drove
the blood from his heart. It was a sound of soft breathing.

He stood for a few moments transfixed ; his tongue
clave to the roof of his mouth ; his feet seemed fastened to
the floor. The sound of soft, regular breathing continued,
and presently, as nothing more alarming occurred, he began
to recover himself. His feet became loosened his limbs
regained their power of action. Noiselessly he took from
his pockets two articles — one a revolver, which he always
carried about him ; the other a bottle of water. He moistened
his throat, and returned the bottle to his pocket ; and
then, holding the pistol, without any distinct idea of the
use he might put it to, he tremblingly approached the bed.
There, fully dressed, lay a lad of some thirteen or fourteen
years of age.

A common-looking lad, sleeping very peacefully and
calmly.

Miser Farebrother, seeing before him an enemy whom he
could easily overcome, shook the lad roughly, and cried,
"Now, then, what are you doing here ? "

The lad jumped up, and slid from the bed to the floor.

Do you hear me ?" cried Miser Farebrother. 'what
are you doing here, you vagabond ? "

That the lad was terribly frightened was clear by his
movements ; he shrank back and cowered at the sight of
the pistol, but he managed to blurt out :

*' 1 ain't doing no harm, your honour ! I'm only having a
sleep."

"How dare you sleep here?" demanded Miser
Farebrother, in a tone of authority. " You have come
to commit a robbery — to rob nne ! I'll put you in jail
for it."

"Don't your honour — don't!" pleaded the lad, still cowering
and shrinking. " I ain't done a morsel of harm — upon
my soul I ain't ! I didn't come here to steal nothing —
upon my soul I didn't 1 "

Miser Farebrother ]put the pistol into his pocket, and the
lad began to whimper.

Do you know I could take your life, could lawfully take
it," said Miser Farebrother, " for breaking into my house as
you have done, and sleeping upon my bed ? "

"Yes, your honour; but please don't! I didn't brea'c
into the house. The door was open."

Stop that crying."

*' Yes, your honour."

And the lad, in default of a handkerchief, dug his knuckles
into his eyes. A lad of resource and some decision of
character, he cried no more. This fact was not lost upon
Miser Farebrother.

You did not break into the house, you say ? "

No, your honour ; upon my soul I didn't ! "

And you found the door open ? "

Yes, your honour."

*' Which door ? "

"The kitchen door, your honour."

How long have you been here ? "

Three days, your honour."

This piece of information rather confounded Miser Fare-brother,
who, himself an interloper, was feeling his way ;
but he was politic enough not to betray himself.

Three days, eh — and not yet caught ? "

Nobody wants to ketch me, your honour."

Not your father and mother ? "

Ain't got none, your honour."

Somebody else, then, in their place ? "

"There ain't nobody in their place. There ain't a soul
that's got a call to lay a hand upon me."

"Except me."

Yes, your honour," said the lad, humbly: "but I didn't
know."

His complete subservience and humbleness had an effect
upon Miser Farebrother. He judged others by himself — a
common enough standard among mortals — and he was not
the man to trust to mere words ; but there was a semblance
of truth in the manner of the lad which staggered him. In
all England it would have been difficult to find a man less
given to sentiment, and less likely to be led by it, but the
lad's conspicuous helplessness, and his ingenuous blue eyes
which, now that the pistol was put away, looked frankly
at the miser — no less than his own scheme of taking possession
of Parksides by stealth and in secrecy, were elements,
in favour of this lad, so strangely found in so strange a.
situation. A claim upon Parksides Miser Farebrother un

djubtedly possessed ; he held papers, in the shape of Hens
u on complicated mortgages, which he had purchased fora
song ; but he had something more than a latent suspicion
that the law's final verdict was necessary to establish the
validity and exact value of his claim. This he had not
sought to obtain, knowing that it would have led him into
ruinous expense and probable failure. These circumstances
.vere the breeders of an uneasy consciousness that he and
the lad, in their right to occupy Parksides, were somewhat
upon an equality. Hence it was necessary to be cautious,
and to feel his way, as it were.

Where are your people ? " he asked.

The lad stared at him*'

My people ! "

'''Your people," repeated Miser Farebrother. "Where
you live, you know."

"Ain't got no people," said the lad. "Don't live nowhere."


Listen to me, you young scoundrel," said Miser Fare-brother,
shaking a menacing forefinger at him; "if you're
trying to impose upon me by a parcel of lies, you'll find

I ain't trying to impose upon you," persisted the lad,
speaking very earnestly ; " I ain't telling you a parcel of
lies. Look here, your honour, have you got a book ? "

"What book?"

I don't care what book — any book ! Give it me, and
I'll kiss it, and swear on it that I've told you the truth, the
whole truth, and nothing but the truth."

You'll have to tell something more of yourself before
I've done with you. Where did you live before you lived
nowhere ? "

Hailsham, your honour."

Where's that ? "

*' Don't know, your honour."

*' How far from here ? "

Six days, your honour."

'' None of your nonsense. How far ? "

'couldn't tell to a yard, if you was to skin me alive. It
took me six days to git here."

'you walked?"

Yes, your honour ; every step of the way."

Who did you live with at Hailsham ? "

"Mother."

You said you had none."

More I have. She's dead."

Father too ? "

Yes ; ever so long ago."

What brought you here ? "

My legs."

Miser Farebrother restrained his anger — for which there
was no sound reason, the lad's manner being perfectly
respectful.

What did you come here for ? "

To see grandfather. I heard mother talk of him and
grandmother ever so many times, and that they lived down
here ; so when she was buried I thought I might do worse
than come and see 'em."

*' Have you seen them ? " .

"No, your honour; they're dead too." The lad added,
mournfully, " Everybody's dead, I think."

They lived down here, you say ? "

"Yes; 'most all their lives; in this fine house. They was
taking care of it for the master."

Some understanding of the situation dawned upon Miser
Farebrother, and a dim idea that it might be turned to his
use and profit.

What was their name ? "

'' Barley, your honour. That's my name, Tom Barley ;
and if you'd give me a job I'd be everlastingly thankful."

Miser Farebrother, with his eyes fixed upon the lad's face,
into which, in the remote prospect of a job, a wistful expression
had stolen, considered for a few moments. Here was
a lad who knew nobody in the neighbourhood and whom
nobody knew, and who recognized in him the master of
Parksides. In a few days he intended to enter into occupation,
and he had decided not to bring a servant with
him. Tom Barley would be useful and was, indeed, just
I he kind of person he would have chosen to serve him in a
rough way — a stranger, whose only knowledge of him was
that he was the owner of Parksides ; and no fear of blabbing,
having nothing to blab about. He made up his mind.

H^ took a little book from his pocket, the printed text of
which was the calculation of interest upon ten pounds and
upward for a day, for a week, for a month, for a year, at
from five to fifty per cent, per annum.

Take this book in your hand and swear upon it that you
have told me the truth."

Tom Barley kissed the interest book solemnly, and duly
registered the oath.

"If I take you into my service," said Miser Farebrother,
will you serve me faithfully ? "

A sudden light of joy shone in Tom Barley's eyes.
"Give me the book again, your honour, and I'll take my oath
on it."

"No," said Miser Farebrother. As a matter of fact/he
lead been glad to get the book back in his possession, not
knowing yet whether Tom Barley could' read, and being
fearful that he might open it and discover its nature ; " I'll
be satisfied with your promise. But you can't sleep in the
house, you know."

There's places outside, your honour ; there's one where
the horses was. That '11 be good enough for me."

"I had a penny when I reached here, your honour, but it's
gone. I spent it in bread"'

Is that all you've had to eat ? "
No, your honour ; I killed a rabbit."
Very well. I take you into my service, Tom Barley.
Twopence a week, and you sleep outside. ^Vhen you're
a man I'll make your fortune if you do as you're told.
What's to-day ? "

Monday', your honour," said Tom Barley, now completely
happy. "The church bells was ringing yesterday."
On Thursday night," said Miser Farebrother, " at
between twelve and one o'clock, I shall be here with a
cart. There will be a lady in it besides me, and — and — a
child. You understand ? "

"Yes, your honour, I'm awake." f

"Be awake then, wide awake, or you will get in trouble.

I shall want you to help get some things out of the cart.

There will be a moon, and you will be able to see me drive

up. Look out for me. Here's a penny on account of your

first week's wages. You can buy some more bread with it,

and if you like you can kill another rabbit. Was it good ? "

Prime, your honour."

It ought to be. It was ;;/ >- rabbit, you know, Tom
Barley, and you'll kill no more than one between now and
Thursday. The skins are worth money, and many a man's
been hanged for stealing them. You will not forget ? —
Thursday night between twelve and one."

No fear of my forgetting, your honour," said Tom
Barley, ducking his head in obeisance ; " I shall be here,
wide-awake, waiting for you."

Miser Farebrother saw Tom Barley out of the house, and
walked away through the shadows, rubbing his hands in
satisfaction at having done a good night's work.

j^©i^p^ .^

THE NEW TENANTS ARRIVE, AND ONE DEPARTS,

At the appointed hour a cart drew up at the gates of Park-sides,
in which, in addition to the driver, were Miser Fare-brother
and his wife and child. Tom Barley was waiting
for them, and he darted forward to assist. Miser Fare-brother
alighted first, and receiving the child from his
wife, looked rather helplessly about him, Mrs. Farebrother
not being strong enough to alight without help.

Can you hold a child ? " asked Miser Farebrother of
Tom Barley.

Yes, your honour," replied Tom, eagerly ; and he took
the child, a little girl scarcely two years old, and cuddled it
close to him.

The mother looked anxiously at the lad, and the moment
her feet touched the ground she relieved him of the charge

The moonlight shone upon the group, and Tom Barley
gazed in wonder at the lady's beautiful face and the pretty
babe. Desiring Tom to assist the driver in the removal of
the necessary household articles he had brought with him
in the cart, Miser Farebrother led the way into the house,
which they entered through the door at the back. Ashe
was lighting a candle, Mrs. Farebrother sighed and
shivered.

It is very lonely," she murmured.
It is very comfortable," he retorted; "a palace compared
to the place we have left. You will get well and
strong here."

She shook her head, and said, in a tone so low that the
words did not reach her husband's ears, " I shall never get
well."

"What is that you say? "he cried, sharply. She did not
reply. " Instead of grumbling and trying not to make the
best of things," he continued, " it would be more sensible
of you to light the fire and make me a cup of tea. Here's
plenty of wood, and here's a fireplace large enough to burn
a ton of coals a day. I must see to that. Now bustle

Is there no servant in the house ? " she asked, wearily.
She had taken off her mantle, and having wrapped her
child in it and laid her down, was endeavouring to obey
her husband's orders. " You said you had one."

*' So I have, a man-servant. I engaged him expressly
for you."

*the boy at the gate ? '*

Yes ; and here he is, loaded. That's right, Tom ; be
sharp and willing, and you'll die a rich man."

Tom Barley was sharp enough to perceive that Mrs.
Farebrother was too weak for the work she was endeavouring
to perform, and willing enough to step to her assistance.


May I light the fire ? " he asked, timidly.

She nodded, and sinking into a chair, lifted her child

from the floor and nursed her. Seeing her thus engaged,

and Tom busy on his knees. Miser Farebrother ran out,

and he and the driver between them carried in the rest of

the things, the most important being the miser's desk,
VOL. I. 3

which he had conveyed at once to the bedroom above.
His mind was easier when he saw that precious depository
in a place of safety.

Meanwhile Tom Barley was proving himself a most cheerful
and capable servant.

*' When his honour told me," he-whispered, " that he
was coming here late at night with you and the baby — a
little girl, ain't it ? — I thought it would be chilly without a
fire, so I cleaned out the fireplace and the chimney, and
got a lot of wood together. There's plenty of it — enough
to last a lifetime. Don't you move, now ; I can make tea.
Used to make mother's. Where's the things ? In the
basket ? Yes ; here they are. Here's the kittle, and
here's the tea, in a blood' paper ; and here's the teapot ;
and here's two cups ; and here's a bottle of milk and some
sugar. It's a blazing fire — ain't it ? That's the best of dry
wood. The kittle '11 bile in a minute — it's biting already ! "
From time to time the delicate woman gave him a grateful
look, which more than repaid him, and caused him to
double his exertions to make her comfortable. By the
time the tea was made, Miser Farebrother had completed

*' You can go, Tom," he said to the lad. " Be up early
in the morning and make the fire."

'' Good-night, your honour."

Did you hear me tell you to go ? " exclaimed Miser
Farebrother.

Tom Barley received a kind look from Mrs. Farebrother
as he left the room, and he went away perfectly happy.

In another hour the house was quiet and the light extinguished.
Miser Farebrother was in secure possession
of Parksides, and he fell asleep in the midst of a calculation
of how much money he would save in rent in the
course of the next twenty years. Other calculations also
ran through his head in the midst of his fitful slumbers —
calculations of figures and money, and interest, and sharp
bargains with needy men, clients he was bleeding to his
own profit. No thought in which figures and money did
not find a place did he bestow upon the more human
aspect of his life, in which there was to be almost immediately
an important change. '

3-2

Within a fortnight of her entrance into the desolate
house Mrs. Farebrother lay upon her death-bed. She had
been weak and ailing for months past, and the night's
journey from London, no less than the deep unhappiness
which, since her marriage, had drawn the roses from her
cheeks and made her heart heavy and sad, now hastened
her end. As she lay upon the ancient stately bed from
which she was never to rise, a terrible loneliness fell upon
her. Her darling child was by her side, mercifully asleep ;
her husband was moving about the apartment-the
sunbeams falling through the window brought no comfort
to the weary heart — all was so desolate, so
desolate ! In a trembling voice she called her husband to
her.

Well ? " he asked.

I must see my sister," she said.

*' I will not have her," he cried. " You are well enough
without her. I will not have her here ! "

I am well enough — to die ! " she murmured. " I must
see my sister before I go."

You are frightening yourself unnecessarily," said Miser

I am frightened of this place," she found strength to
say. " I cannot, I will not, die here alone ! I must see
my sister, I must see my sister ! "

Still he made no movement to comply with her request.

If you do not send for her at once," said his wife, *' I
will get up and go from the house and die in the roadway.
God will give me strength to do it. I must see my sister,
I must see my sister ! "

Awed, if not convinced, and fearful, too, lest any disturbance
which it was in his power to avoid might bring
him into unfavourable notice, and interfere with his
cherished plans, he said, reluctantly, " I will send for her."

You are not deceiving me ? You are not promising
what you do not intend to perform ? "

I will send for her, I tell you."

If you do not," she said — and there was a firmness in
her weak tones which was not without its effect upon him —

"misfortune will attend you all the days of your life.

Nothing you do will prosper."

He was superstitious, and believed in omens ; and this
sounded like a prophecy, the warning of which he dared
not neglect. His wife's eyes followed him as he stepped
to his desk and sat down and wrote. Presently he left the
room, and went in search of Tom Barley, to whom he gave
a letter, bidding him to post it in the village. Grumbling
at what he had done, he returned to his wife.

*' Is my sister coming ? " she asked.

I have written to her," he replied. *' Go to sleep and
rest. You will be better in the morning."

Yes," she sighed, as she pressed her child close to her
bosom, " I shall be better in the morning. Oh, my sweet
flower ! my heart's treasure ! Guard her, gracious Lord !
Make her life bright and happy — as mine once promised to
be ! I could have given love for love ; but it was denied
to me. Not mine the fault — not mine, not mine ! "

The day waned, the evening shadows fell, and night
came on. Upon a table at some distance from the bed
was one thin tallow candle, the feeble flame of which

An hour before midnight she heard the sound of carriage
wheels without, and she sat straight up in her bed from excitement,
and then fell back exhausted.

It is my sister," she said, faintly, to her husband. " Let
her come up at once. Thank God, she is here in time ! '*

Her sister bent fondly and in great grief over her. Between
these two existed a firm and faithful affection, but the
circumstances of Mrs. Farebrother's marriage had caused
them to see very little of each other of late years.

Attend to my darling Phoebe," whispered Mrs. Fare-brother
; " there is no female servant in the house.
Oh, I am so glad you have come before it was too
late ! "

Do not say too late, my dearest," said her sister ; but
her heart was faint within her as she gazed upon the pallid
face and the thin wasted hands ; " there are happy years
before you."

Not one, not one ! " murmured Mrs. Farebrother.

*' Why did you not send for me before ? "

The dying woman made no reply, and her sister undressed
little Phoebe, and placed her in a cot by the mother's bedside.
Then she smoothed the sheets and pillows, and sat
quietly, with her sister's hand in hers.

It is like old times," murmured Mrs. Farebrother, wistfully.
*' You were always good to me. Tell me, my dear —
put your head close to mine — oh, how sweet, how sweet !

*' What is it you want to know, dear ? You were about
to ask me something."

Yes, yes. Tell me — are you happy at home ? "

*' Very happy."

"Truly and indeed?"

Truly and indeed. We are not rich, but that does not
matter."

Your husband is good to you ? "

There is no one in the world like him ; he is the best,
the noblest, the most unselfish of men ! " But here, with
a sudden feeling of remorse, she stopped. The contrast
between her bright home and the gloomy home of her sister
struck her with painful force ; to speak of the joys of the
one seemed to accentuate the miseries of the other.

"Go on, dear," said Mrs. Farebrolher, gently; "it does
not hurt me, indeed it does not ; I have grown so used, in
other homes, to what you see around you here that custom
has made it less bitter than it once was. It makes me happy
to hear of your happiness, and it holds out a glad prospect

that my dear child, when she grows up, may have a little
share in it."

"She shall, she shall; I promise it solemnly."

Thank you, dear. So you must go on telling me of
your good husband. He is still in his bank ? "

"Yes, dear; and hopes for a rise before long. He is
always full of hope, and that is worth a great deal — it means
so much ! He thinks of nothing but his home, and those
in it. He dotes upon the children."

The dear children ! Are they well and strong ? "

Yes, dear ; and the grow prettier and prettier everyday."


You must kiss them fondly for me, and give them my
dear love."

I will be sure to. You must not talk any more just
now ; you are tired out. Try and sleep."

I think I shall be able. God bless you, dear ! "

God bless you, dearest ! "

In a few moments, the tension of anxious watching and
waiting being over, Mrs. Farebrother slept. Her sister
gazed at her solicitously and mournfully. At such a time

the cherished memories of old are burdened with a sadness
which weighs heavily upon the heart.

*•' She is not so ill as she fancies, is she ? "

It was Miser Farebrother who spoke to her. She rose

softly, and led him from the bed, so that their conversation
should not disturb the sufferer.

Why did you not send me a telegram instead of a
letter?"

*' A telegram ! " he cried. " Do you think I am made of
money ? "

'• I am not thinking of your money : I am thinking of my
sister. What does the doctor say ? "

The doctor ! " he exclaimed. " I have none."

Gentle-natured as she was, she looked at him in horror.

You have none — and my sister dying ! "

•' It is not true," he whined, thinking of the inconvenience
such an event would cause him ; " it cannot be true. She
was well a few days ago. I cannot afford doctors. You are
all in a conspiracy to rob me ! "

I was told as I came along that this great house is
yours."

" Yes, it is — my property, my own."

"' And a great deal of land around, and everything in the
place."

"Yes, it is — all mine, all mine!" And then, with a
sudden suspicion, " Do you intend to dispute it ? "

Heaven forbid ! What is it to do with me — except that
when you speak of ruin to me, and of not being able to
afford a doctor, you are speaking what is false. Why did
you marry ? "

I don't know," he replied, wringing his hands, " I don't
know. I ought never to have done it. I ought to have
lived alone, with nobody to keep but myself."

*rit would have been better for my poor sister. But she
is your wife, and I shall not allow her to suffer as she is
suffering without seeking medical assistance. I have never
been in this neighbourhood, and know nothing about it.
Where is the nearest doctor ? "

I can't tell you ; I am almost as much a stranger here
as you are."

There must be one not very far off. Who was the lad
who opened the door for me when I came to-night ? "

My servant, Tom Barley. What do you want him for ?
He is asleep by this time. He has work to do the first
thing in the morning."

"Where does he sleep ? "

Outside ; in the stable."

I shall find it. You must write a few words on paper
for me."

I'll do nothing of the sort. You shan't force me to put
my name to anything. Do you think I am not up to such
tricks ? "

If you don't do as I say I will bring a lawyer here as
well as a doctor."

This woman possessed a sweet and gentle nature,
and nothing but the evidence of an overwhelming
wrong could have so stirred it to sternness. Miser
Farebrother was terrified at the threat of bringing a
lawyer into the house ; and as he had given way to
his wife earlier in the day, so now was he compelled
by his fears to give way to her sister. He wrote as she
directed :

"Mr. Farebrother, of Parksides, urgently requests the

doctor to come immediately to his house to see Mrs. Fare-brother,
who, he fears, is seriously ill."

He fought against two words — "urgently," because it
might cause the doctor to make a heavier charge ; and
"seriously," because a construction that he had been neglectful
might be placed on it. But his sister-in-law was
firm, and he wrote as she dictated.

*'I will send the lad with it," said Miser Farebrother.

** I will send him myself," said his sister-in-law. " There
must not be a moment's delay."

There was no need for her to seek Tom Barley in the
stable ; he was sitting up in the kitchen below.

She gave him the letter, and desired him to run as fast
as he could to the village and find a doctor, who was to
come back with him. If the doctor demurred, and wanted
to put it off till the following day, he was to be told that it
was a matter of life and death.

Tom Barley was visibly disturbed when he heard
this.

"Who is it, lady?" he asked. "His honour's wife, or
the baby ? "

His wife. You're a kind-hearted lad, and won't waste
a moment, will you ? "

No, lady ; trust me''

He was not above taking the sixpence she offered him,
and he ran out of the house like a shot.

Within the hour he was back with the doctor, whose looks
were grave as he examined his patient.

'there is hope, doctor? " said Mrs. Farebrother's sister.
Tell me there is hope ! " '

He shook his head, and gently told her she must prepare
for the worst.

"She is past prescribing for," he said. "I can do
nothing for her. She has been for some time in a
decline."

The sentence being passed, she had no room in her heart
for any other feeling than pity for her dying sister. In the
sunrise, when the sweet air was infusing strength into fresh
young life, the end came. Mrs. Farebrother whispered to
her sister that she wished to speak to her husband alone.
Thoroughly awed, he sat by her side. She made no reference
to the past ; she uttered no reproaches. She spoke

only of their child, and begged him to be good to her. He

promised all that she asked of him.

*' You will get some good woman into the house to take
care of her ? " she said.

Yes ; I promise."

"And my sister must see her whenever she wishes to do
so."

"Yes."

"And when our dear one is old enough and strong enough
you will let her go to my sister, and stop with her a Httle
now and then? It will do her good to mix with children
of her own age."

Yes ; I promise."

"As you deal by her, so will you be dealt by. May
Heaven prosper you in all worthy undertakings ! Kiss me.
Let there be peace and forgiveness between us."

He kissed her, and sat a little apart while she and her
sister, their cheeks nestling, exchanged their last words.

Look after my treasure," whispered the mother.

I will, dear, as tenderly and carefully as if she were one
of my own".

You must come here and see her sometimes ; he has
promised that you may ; and when she grows up you will
let her come to you ? "

She will always be lovingly welcome. My home is hers
if she should ever need one."

God bless you ! May your Use be prosperous and
ever happy ! "

Before noon she drew her last breath, and Parksides was
without a mistress.

VOL. L

Phoebe AND THE ANGELS.

It did not long remain so. In less than a fortnight after
Mrs. Farebrothei''s death a housekeeper was installed in
Parksides. Her name was Mrs. Pamflett, and her age
thirty. Being called " Mrs," the natural inference was
that she was either wife or widow; but as no questions
were put to her on this point there were none to answer,
and it certainly did not appear to be anybody's business
but her own. Miser Farebrother, being entirely wrapped
up in his money-bags, gave the entire household into the
care of Mrs. Pamflett, one of its items being the motherless
child Phoebe. A capable housekeeper, thrifty, careful, and
willing to work. Miser Farebrother was quite satisfied with
her performance of her duties ; but she was utterly unfit to
rear a child so young as Phoebe, for whom, it must be confessed,
she had no particular love, and Phoebe would have
fared badly in many ways had it not been for her aunt.

Mrs. Lethbridge lived in London, in the not very aristocratic
neighbourhood of Camden Town. She and Phoebe's
mother had been married on the same day — one to a man
whose miserly habits were unknown, and had, indeed, not
at that time grown into a confirmed disease ; the other to a
bank clerk, who was expected to keep up the appearance
of a gentleman, and fitly rear and educate a family, upon a
salary of a hundred and eighty pounds a year. Fortunately
for him and his wife, their family was not numerous, consisting
of one son and one daughter. With Miser Farebrother
they had nothing in common; he so clearly and unmistakably
discouraged their attempts to cement an affectionate or
even a friendly intimacy that they had gradually and surely
dropped away from each other. This was a great grief to
the sisters, but the edict issued by Miser Farebrother was
not to be disputed.

I will not allow your sister or her husband to come to
the house," he had said to his wife when, in the early days
of their married life, she remonstrated with him; later on
she had not the courage or the spirit to expostulate against

his harsh decrees, to which she submitted with a breaking

4-2

Library

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS

heart. "They are a couple of busybodies, and you can tell
them so if you please, with my compliments."

Mrs. Farebrother did not tell her sister what her husband
called them, but she wrote and said that for the sake of
peace they had better not come to see her. The Lethe
mournfully acquiesced ; indeed, they had no alternative
: they could not force themselves into the house of a
man who would not receive them.

*' But if we can't go to her," said Mrs. Lethbridge,
Laura " — which was Mrs. Farebrother's Christian name —
"can come to us."

This, also, after a little while, Miser Farebrother would
not allow.

I will not," he said, " have my affairs talked about by
people who are not friendly to me."

That is your fancy," said Mrs. Farebrother ; " they would
be very happy if you would allow them to be friendly."

Of course," he sneered, " so that they could poke their
heads into my business. I tell you I will not have it."

She sighed, and submitted; and thereafter, when she
and her sister met, it was by appointment in a strange place

Even these rare meetings, upon their being discovered,
were prohibited, and thus Miser Farebrother succeeded in
parting two sisters who loved each other devotedly.

Whatever Laura saw in that miserly bear," said Mrs.
Lethbridge, indignantly, to her husband, *' to marry him is
a mystery I shall never be able to discover."

But this mystery is of a nature common enough in the
matrimonial market, and may be attributed to thousands of
ill-assorted couples.

It was plainly Miser Farebrother's intention to discourage
Mrs. Lethbridge's visits to Parksides after the death of his
wife; promises were in no sense sacred to him, even deathbed
promises, unless their performance was necessary to his
interests, and in this instance he very soon decided that it
was not. , . ,

'' You perceive," he said to Mrs. Lethbridge, " that I have
a housekeeper to look after the child. You are giving
yourself a deal of unnecessary trouble trudging down here
—for what ? To ascertain whether she is properly dressed ?
You see she is. . Whether isle has enough to eat? She
looks well enough, doesn't she ? Don't you think you had

better devote yourself to your own domestic affairs instead
of prying into mine ? Your husband must be very rich that
you can afford to pay railway fares and cab fares to come to
a house where you are not wanted."

This, in effect, was the sum of his efforts to prevent
her from visiting Parksides ; and his sneers and slighting
allusions, made from time to time, were successful in curtailing
her visits to his house during the young childhood
of little Phoebe. They were not successful, however, in
putting a stop to them altogether, until Phoebe was fourteen
years of age, from which time her intercourse with her relatives
was maintained by the young girl's visits to Camden
Town — happy visits, lasting seldom less than two or three
days. Until Phoebe was fourteen, her aunt came down to
Parksides only once in every three months. Occasionally
Mrs. Lethbridge caught a glimpse of Miser Farebrother,
whose welcome, if he gave her one at all, was of the surliest ;
and as between her and Mrs. Pamflett a strong and silent
antipathy had been contracted from their first interview,
Mrs. Lethbridge's visits could not be said to be of theplea^
contest. But for the sake of her dead sister, whom she had

SO fondly loved, and of the motherless child, whose sweet
ways endeared her to the good aunt, she bore with all the
sights that were put upon her ; and although she spoke of
them at home to her husband, she never mentioned them
to her children.

From two to fourteen years of age, Phoebe may be said to
have grown up almost in loneliness. Her father rarely
noticed her, and Mrs. Pamflett, a peculiar, strange, and
silent woman, evinced no desire for her society. The
child's nature was sweet and susceptible enough to have,
given an ample return for proffered affection, and, although
she was not at the time aware of it (such speculations being;
too profound for her young mind), she had great cause for
gratitude that her life was not entirely deprived of it. It
has unhappily often happened that sweet waters have been
turned bitter by unsympathetic contact, and this might
have been the case with our Phoebe, had it not been
for Mrs. Lethbridge and Tom Barley. Mrs. Lethbridge
had made herself so loved by her niece that her visits came
to be eagerly looked forward to by the girl, and to be all the
more enjoyed because they were rare. Her love for the

child was manifested as much, if not more, in her absence
than in her presence. When Phoebe could read or spell
through written hand, Mrs. Lethbridge wrote letters to her,
to which the child replied. Phoebe's letters were slipped
unstamped in the post-office by Tom Barley, and for a longtime
she was not aware of the unfair expense to which her
.aunt was being put, and for which Miser Farebrother alone
was responsible. Mrs. Lethbridge never mentioned it to
her niece. Then there were the books which Mrs. Lethbridge
brought or sent — a source of so much delight and
exquisite enjoyment that the remembrance of those youthful
days was with Phoebe g, sweet remembrance through all
her Hfe.

Living in a certain sense alone in a great mansion, it is
not to be wondered at that a current of romance was formed
in the young girl's nature. Neglected and uncared for as
she was by those immediately about her, there was no restriction
upon her movements through the old house.
Certain rooms were prohibited to her, Mrs. Pamflett's room
and her father's bedroom, which served also as an. office.
To this latter apartment, when she passed fourteen years of

age, Phoebe was sometimes called — otherwise she was forbidden
to enter it. With these exceptions she was free to wander
whither she would, and she would often pass hours together
in a room never occupied by the household, and which had
an irresistible fascination for her. It was of octagonal
shape, and there were faded paintings on the walls and
rotting tapestries. Originally it was most likely used as a
library, for it contained book-cases and large pieces of furniture,
a table, two secretaries, and a huge chair, so heavy
that Phoebe could not even move it. The carvings about
the room and upon the furniture were strangely grotesque —
fantastic heads and faces, animals such as were never seen
in nature, and uncouth forms of men which had no existence
save in the feverish imaginations of the designers.
These contorted shapes and grotesque faces might have
been supposed to be sufficiently repulsive to cause a sensitive
child to avoid them, but in truth they were in themselves
an attraction to Phoebe, who discovered no terrors in them
to affright her. There was, however, in the room an attraction
of a more congenial kind, in which grace, harmony,
proportion, and a most exquisite beauty were conspicuous.

High up in a corner, opposite a window which faced the

west, was a carving of angels' heads, hanging over, as it

were, and looking down upon the spectator. Devoid of
natural colour as they were, so grand and wondrous had

been the skill of the carver that it was as though a multitude
of joyous, rosy-cheeked children were bending down
to obtain a view of a scene as delightful as they themselves
presented. The lips smiled, the eyes sparkled, the faces
beamed with life. This marvel, cut out of brown wood,,
was, indeed, something more than the perfection of art
and grace — it was an enchantment which made the heart
glad to behold. And in the evening, when the effulgent
radiance of a glorious sunset shone upon the wonder and
played about it, touching the dainty faces with alluring
light, it filled even the soul of our young child with a holy
joy. .

This was Phoebe's favourite room ; and here she would
sit and read, and sometimes stand, with folded hands,
looking upward at the enchanting group, with the sunset's
colours upon them ; and in her eyes would dwell a rapture
which made her as lovely as the fairest of the faces she

gazed upon. Thus she grew up to a graceful and beautiful
womanhood, encompassed by sweet and grand imaginings
which purified her soul.

MRS. PAMFLETT RECOMMENDS A NEW CLERK TO THE MISER.

Long before this, Tom Barley had grown to manhood's
estate : the only estate of which he was owner and was ever
likely to possess. But, although he had no landed property
of his own to look after, he had an object in life. He conceived
it to be his particular privilege to protect Phoebe, to
run of her errands, and to be in a general way her willing
and cheerful slave. Had he been able to intelligently and
logically express himself upon the point in the early years of
his connection with Miser Farebrother, it would have been
ascertained that he founded his position upon the facts that
he had held Phoebe in his arms upon her first introduction
to Parksides, that he had been smiled upon by her mother,
that he had attended the poor lady's funeral as an important
and very genuine mourner, and that, besides, he was in the
service of Miser Farebrother, who had promised to make

dropped a hint or two, but Miser Farebrother was

oblivious, and callous to the peeping of flesh through

tatters.

"You extravagant dog," he said, " I did not undertake to
clothe you. Look at me : / can't afford fine new clothes !
Go and hang about the village, when you've nothing to do
here, and look for an odd job. That's the way to earn
honest pennies. Many a millionaire began with less. And,
Tom," he added, " when you've saved a few shillings, I
dare say I can find an old pair of trousers that I'll sell you
cheap."

Tom profited by the suggestion, and in a little while
found the way to earn a good many honest pennies. Miser
Farebrother fished out of his scanty wardrobe some tattered
garments, which he disposed of to Tom, and it was then
that the lad exhibited himself in a new character, which
drove the miser to desperation. He bargained with his
master and beat him down to the last penny ; Tom was not
devoid of shrewdness, and he was beginning to understand
the miser.

If every man was as generous as I am," grumbled Miser

They're full of holes," said Tom, turning the clothes
over and examining them ruefully. The miser would not
allow him to handle them until the bargain was completed
and the money safe in his pocket : '' look here, and
here 1 "

Look here, and here, you dog ! " retorted Miser Fare-brother.
" Do I charge you anything for their being too big
for you? Can't you cut off the bottoms of the trousers,
and patch the knees with the extra bits ? You ought to
give the pieces back to me ; but I make you a present of
them."

Tom was quick enough at taking a hint. Being thrown
upon his own resources, and imbued with the cheerfulness of
spirits, he soon became proficient with the needle, and, by
patching here and darning there, managed to maintain a
tolerably decent appearance. He might have done better,
had he not been afflicted by an insatiable hungering for
brandy-balls, which, at three a penny, was a temptation not
to be resisted whenever he had a copper to spare. To see

him rolling one in his mouth was a picture of unalloyed

bliss.

Mrs. Pamflett and he were not good friends, and an
incident which will be presently related did not dispose
them more favourably to each other. He was more fortunate
with Mrs. Lethbridge. This good-hearted woman had
noticed his unselfish devotion to Phoebe, and he won her
favour thereby. Many a small silver bit found its way from
her pocket to his ; and more than once she bore with her to
Parksides a Utile parcel containing a waistcoat, or an under-shirt,
or a couple of pairs of socks, which had served their
time at home, but which were not so utterly worn out as not
to be useful to Tom. He was very grateful for these gifts,
and showed his appreciation of them by forcing a brandy-ball
upon her now and then. She went further. Impressed
by Phoebe's constant praise of the young fellow, and
recognizing that the girl had near her, when she was
absent, a stanch and faithful champion, ever ready to
protect and defend her, she took Tom Barley into her
confidence.

Can you read, Tom ? " she asked.

Yes, lady," he replied. " Square letters — not round
uns. And I can write 'em''

Thereupon Mrs. Lethbridge wrote her name and address
in Camden Town on a piece of paper, in square letters ;
and Tom spelt them aloud.

'keep this by you," said Mrs. Lethbridge; "and
if ever anything happens to Miss Farebrother, and
you don't know what to do, come for me at once.
Here's a two-shilling piece. You must not spend it ;
you must put it carefully away, in case you need it
for this special purpose. The railway fare to London
and back is eighteen pence ; an omnibus will bring you
very near to my house for threepence. You understand
? "

'' I understand, lady. But trust me for taking care of
Miss Phoebe."

I do, Tom ; but something we don't think of just now

might happen, and Miss Phoebe might want you to come

for me. Or you might think, ' I wish Miss Phoebe had

somebody with her who feels like a mother to her, and who

loves her very tenderly.' "

VOL. I. 5

So do I, lady," said Tom, in an earnest tone. " I'll do
as you tell me. You can trust me''

*' I know it, Tom, and so does Miss Phoebe. She says
she doesn't know what she should do without } ou."

"7 shouldn't know what to do without her'' said Tom,
feeling very proud. That he was trusted, and that his
young mistress valued his services, gave him a feeling of
self-respect.

From that day he became more than ever Phoebe's faithful
knight, and it was when Phoebe was twelve years of age
that the incident occurred, springing out of his championship
of the little maid, which increased Mrs. Pamflett's
aversion to him. Tom at that time was twenty-four, and
had grown into a long lean man, looking two or three
inches taller than he really was because of his extreme
lankiness. His coats and trousers were now always too
short for his arms and legs, and he was remarkable for a
lavish protuberance and exhibition of bone. He was very
strong, and was noted as a fleet runner; he could start off
at a rapid swinging gait, and keep his wind and pace for
hours. This accomplishment had brought grist to his mill

One of his weaknesses was a fondness for all kinds of
street shows, most especially for "Punch and Judy," at
which he would stand and gaze and laugh with the heartiness
of a boy. A capital ladder was he for small children,
whom he would hoist to his shoulders in order that they
might have a good view of the show, and his kindly nature
would always gravitate to the weakest and smallest of the

eager throng. It was during a representation of this 



mortal tragical comedy that a new acquaintance was made
by Tom Barley and his young mistress. The meeting
became historical, by force of exciting detail and vivid
colour, and one small boy was covered with glory. It is
opportunity that creates heroes.

To commence at the commencement, it was on this day
revealed to Phoebe and Tom that Mrs. Pamflett had a son.
She had never spoken of him to them, and when he made
his first appearance at Parksides they were absent in the
village. His mission at Parksides was the opening of a
career.

Miser Farebrother had an office in London, in which he
transacted the greater portion of his business. It was his
habit to go to London every morning and return every
evening. He had a third-class annual ticket, every fresh
renewal of which drove daggers into his heart. A clerk
who had starved in his employment had suddenly taken
courage and left him, impressed by the idea that he could
starve more agreeably in another situation ; for Miser Fare-brother
not only paid the smallest of wages, but he was a
bully and a tyrant to those who were dependent upon him.

You'll die in a ditch ! " he called after the man.
There were crumbs of comfort, however, in the act
which caused Mi5:;r Farebrother to rub his hands with
satisfaction. His clerk had left on a Thursday : four days'
wages saved.

There were confidences between the miser and Mrs.
Pamflett, and when he returned to Parksides he related to
her what had occurred.

You will want a new clerk," she said. " Take
Jeremiah."

Miser Farebrother put his right hand up to his chin, and
repeated, musingly, " Take Jeremiah."

"You couldn't do better," said Mrs. Pamflett, "and you
are almost certain to do worse."

She spoke in a hard tone ; there was no pleading in her
voice and manner : had there been, the probability is that
she would not have succeeded.

How old is he now ? " asked Miser Farebrother.

Seventeen last birthday."

Decent looking? "

"Yes."

"A good writer?"

Here is his last letter to me," said Mrs. Pamflett, handing
it to the miser.

He examined it carefully ; the writing was excellent. He
returned it to his housekeeper.

How about his figures ? "

He is splendid at them. That is what he was distinguished
for at school."

Was he distinguished for anything else ? For instance,
for keeping his own counsel ? "

He can do that."

Is he fond of pleasure ? "

He wants to get along in the world."

'' Willing to work hard?"

Try him."

"I will think of it," said Miser Farebrother, going to his
room. It was not his habit to do things in a hurry.

He passed the night as usual writing in his account-books,
and making calculations of money and dates, and
reckoning up compound interest at different rates of percentage
per month. He never lent money at interest per
annum, but always at compound interest per month, a
system which swelled his profits enormously. A ledger
slipped from the table to the ground, and stooping to reach
it, he found himself unable to rise. He beat the floor
with his hands, and called out for his housekeeper; but it
was many minutes before she heard him and came to his
help. She assisted him to his feet, and into his chair,
where he sat, twisting and groaning.

'' Rub my back, rub my back ! Lower, lower ! A little
more to the left ! No ; that's not the place ! Ah, now

you're right. Keep rubbing — harder, harder. Oh !
oh!"

I told you the other night," said Mrs. Pamflett, composedly,
as she carried out his instructions, "when you
walked home from the station in the sopping rain, that
you'd catch lumbago ; and now you've got it."

"Oh ! oh !" cried Miser Farebrother. "You're a witch,
you're a witch ! You laid a spell upon me. What did you
do it for ? Do you think I shall put you down in my will,
and that my death will make you rich ? You're mistaken ;
I've no money to leave and if I had, you shouldn't have it.
No one should have it — no one. ' Walk home in the rain !'
what else could I do ? Can I afford carriages to ride in ?
You know I can't ; you know it, you know it ! Rub away
harder — harder ! Have you got no life in you ? "

He lay back in his chair, gasping, his pains somewhat
relieved.

You won't be able to move tomorrow," said Mrs. Pam-fleet
; "and now you've begun to have lumbago, it will
never leave you."

What ! You've putting more spells on me, are you ?

"No, it isn't," said Mrs. Pamflett. "Somebody ought
to sleep there. I always thought that. Jeremiah could.
You'd best get to bed now ; I'll help you. Then I'll get
some turpentine and flannel ; it will do you good, perhaps.
Yes, some person in whom you have confidence, should
sleep in the office."

"There's no such person," he snarled. "Everybody
tries to rob me — everybody — everybody I "

How will it be," said Mrs. Pamflett, not in the slightest
way ruffled, " when you're laid up a week at a time, and
can't go to London to attend your customers ? It will
happen ; I know what lumbago is. Once get it into your
bones, there's no driving it out."

It isn't in my bones ; it's only a slight attack. I can
walk now if I please. See ; I can stand up straight, and —
Oh ! oh ! "

Down he fell again, and when Mrs. Pamflett attempted
to assist him he screamed out, " Let me be ! let me

be 1" You're twisting me wrong ! You want to kill
me ! "

Presently, when there was less need for his comical physical
contortions, which did not elicit from Mrs. Pamflett either a
smile or the slightest expression of sympathy, she returned
to the attack.

*' Jeremiah is the very person you want. ' If you don't
have him, I shall obtain another situation for him, and then
you will lose a treasure."

'•' A treasure ! " he retorted, scornfully. " Of course :
every cock crows on its own dunghill. Jeremiah's a precious
stone, eh ? A very precious stone ! "

He is. He's the brightest, cleverest lad you've ever
come across."

Ah," he said, with a cunning cock of his head ; " but
we don't want 'm too clever ; do we ? "

'' He will do everything you want done in the way you
wish," said Mrs. Pamflett, calmly ; " and if that doesn't
content you, nothing will. He writes well, as you have
seen ; he knows all about book-keeping; and he's as sharp
as a needle."

"Takes after his mother"' observed Miser Farebrother,
with a sardonic leer.

No ; I was never very clever, I've missed things. He
won't, being a man. I'm glad I didn't have a girl. As a
rule, I hate them."

How about Phoebe ? "

She's well enough, but there's not much love lost
between us. She don't take to me, and I don't take to her.
It's on her side, mostly, not mine. She has nothing to
complain of, any more than you have."

Oh, I don't complain," he said, his wary eyes on her.

Perhaps it s as well you don't. You must have somebody
here, and you would most likely get some one in my
place who'd eat you out of house and home. Female servants
are a nice set ! Shall I send for Jeremiah ? Will
you see him here tomorrow ? "

Yes," said Miser Farebrother ; he was now in bed, and
Mrs. Pamflett was tucking him in; "you may send for
him. I will see him tomorrow."

A VERY SMALL BOY COVERS HIMSELF WITH GLORY.

Jeremiah Pamflett presented himself at Parksides at noon.
His mother was waiting for him at the gates. A pale, self-possessed
woman, upon whose face, to the ordinary observer,
was never seen a sign of joy or sorrow, in whose
eyes never shone that light of sympathy which draws heart
to heart, she became transformed the moment her son appeared.
She ran toward him ; she pressed him in her
arms ; she kissed him again and again.

My boy ! my boy ! " she murmured.

Mother," said Jeremiah, '' you're rumpling my collar,
and you wrote to me to make myself nice."

And you do look nice, my pet," said Mrs. Pamflett,
taking off his shiny belltopper, and blowing away a speck
of dust. " How much did you give for this new hat ? "

Six-and-six, in Drury Lane. Don't press your hand

Did you, Jeremiah, did you ! " exclaimed the proud
mother, passing her hand over his remarkably smooth chin,
guiltless as yet of the remotest indication of hair. " My
boy's growing quite a man ! "

Altogether, with my fare down here, I've spent one
pound six, and you only sent me a sovereign. I had to
borrow the six shillings, and I shall have to pay it back the
moment I get to London."

With a nod and a smile Mrs. Pamflett produced her
purse, and handed six shillings to her son, upon receiving
which Jeremiah hugged her, and winked, as it were inwardly
to himself, over her shoulder.

Another shilling, mother, for luck ; now don't be mean.
You haven't got any more sons ; don't begrudge your only
one ! "

The appeal was irresistible, and Jeremiah received

another shilling, which he greeted with a repetition of the

hug and the wink.

"And now, mother, what is it all about? What's the
little game ? I'm going to make my fortune, am I ? Well,
I'm willing."

Mrs. Pamflett took him into the kitchen and explained.
He was to enter Miser Farebrother's service, she said, if
the miser approved of him. The miser was in bed
upstairs, laid up with lumbago, and Jeremiah was to be
very polite and civil, and not to mind if the miser flew out
at him.

This caused Jeremiah to exclaim : " Oh, come, mother,
I'm not going to be bullied. I wouldn't stand it from a man
twice my size ! "

Mrs. Pamflett expressed her admiration of his courage,
but said he must keep himself in. Miser Fairbrother was
"touchy," because he was in such pain. If Jeremiah was
engaged, he was to sleep in the office in London, and if he
was steady and attentive he might become the sole manager
of Miser Farebrother's business in the course of a few years,
and — who knows ? — perhaps a partner. She said a great

"And now come up with me," she said. " I will show
you into his room."

But, I say," expostulated Jeremiah, looking greedily at
the saucepans on the fire, from one of which an appetizing
flavour was escaping, " ain't you going to give me anything
to eat ? "

"When you come down, Jeremiah," she replied,
I'll have a nice dinner for you. Can't you smell
it?"

The conformation of Jeremiah Pamflett's pug-nose
became accentuated by reason of its owner giving half a dozen
vigorous sniffs, and having thus tasted the pleasures of hope
he followed his mother upstairs to Miser Farebrother's bedroom.
The miser was in bed, groaning in his night-cap,
and pouring out imprecations upon fate. Mrs. Pamflctt
assisted him into the easiest posture, and he cocked his eye
at Jeremiah, who had suddenly become very humble and
subservient. He was the personification of meekness ashe
stood in the presence of the queer-looking night-capped

figure in bed, gazing at him \vith eyes which seemed to

pierce him through and through.

So this is Jeremiah, is it ? " he said.

Mrs. Pamflett smiled a beaming assent.

Draw that table closer to the bed ; now those sheets of
paper ; now the pen and ink ; now the blotting-paper ;
now a chair for the lad. Go ; leave us alone."

The interview lasted an hour, at the end of which
Jeremiah presented himself before his anxious mother with
a sly look of self-satisfaction. His first words were :

'' Oh ! but ain't he a scorcher? Cayenne pepper ain't in
it with him. Talk of sharpness ! Well, I thought I wasn't
bad, but he licks Blue Peter. He put me through, I can
tell you."

"Are you engaged, Jeremiah? " asked Mrs. Pamflett, her
fond hands about his clothes, setting them right. " What
questions did he ask you, and how did you answer them ?
Why don't you speak ? "

Shan't say a blessed word," was the affectionate reply,
*' till I've had something to eat. Serve up, mother ; I'm as
enipty as a drum."

I mean to make it, mother," said Jeremiah.

VOL I. 6

I shall live to see you ride in your carriage," said she.

I'll be able to afford it one day ; but " — with a touch of
shrewdness of which Miser Farebrother himself might have
been proud — " it will be cheaper, don't you think, to ride
in other people's ? "

This made Mrs. Pamflett laugh, and she kissed him, and
praised him for his cleverness. She wished him to remain
with her the whole of the day ; but he said he must get
back to London, and after screwing two or three more
shillings out of her, he bade her good-bye. She stood at
the gates watching him till he was out of sight, sucking the
knob of his new walking stick, and flourishing it with an air.
He was in the mood for enjoyment, and he was not at all in
the hurry he expressed to get back to the metropolis.
Meeting a small urchin in a lane, he bailed him up.

What's your name, you scoundrel ? " he said, setting the
boy before him.

Roger," said the trembling lad, whose age might have
been six, and was certainly not more.

Jeremiah gave him a violent shaking. " Say ' sir ' ; say
Roger, sir.' "

"Roger, sir."

Say it louder. If you cry, I'll chop you into little bits."

"Roger, sir."

"What are you doing here ? "

Nothing, sir."

How dare you do nothing ? Bow to me."

The frightened little chap bowed, whipping off his cap at
Jeremiah's command.

Bow three times. Lower — lower — lower ! " The little
chap obeyed, bowing almost to the stones.

Now say, ' I beg your pardon, sir ; and I'll never do so
again.' "

"I beg your pardon, sir; and I'll never do so again."

Jeremiah slapped his face, and walked away, whistling.
It was a good commencement. He was really enjoying
himself. When he reached the village another excitement
greeted him. There was a " Punch and Judy " being shown,
and a large crowd, chiefly composed of children, were gathered
around the entertainment. Among the on-lookers were
Phoebe and Tom Barley. Jeremiah elbowed his way into the

centre of the crowd, and presently a girl cried " Oh ! " and

6-2

looked round, rubbing her arm. She was a plain-looking girl,
and somebody had given her a sharp pinch. Jeremiah Pam-fleet
looked away, with a successful effort at unconsciousness.
Edging a Httle further on he stationed himself behind
another plain girl, who also the next minute cried " Oh ! "
and looked round, without discovering her tormentor.
This was one of Jeremiah's favourite pastimes, mixing in a
crowd of children and pinching the ugly girls. Both Phoebe
and Tom Barley were too deeply absorbed in the show to
notice these mean diversions, and Jeremiah moved about,
enjoying himself to his heart's content, till he found himself
standing just behind Phoebe, having pushed between her
and Tom. Eyeing her over, to select a nice place for his
fingers, he was on the point of operating, when a slight turn
on Phoebe's part gave him a view of her face.

She's too pretty to pinch," thought he ; " I'll kiss her."

Judging his opportunity and the favourable moment, he
slyly planted a kiss upon her neck. The young girl started,
and blushed all over.

Tom ! " she screamed.

At that precise moment a remarkable incident occurred.

There was instant confusion in the crowd. All the
children looked after the flying figure of Tom Barley, holding
the astonished Jeremiah aloft. The show-men were not
entirely dissatisfied, the entertainment being very near its
end, and a fair amount of coppers having been already
gathered. Toby, an impulsive dog, and somewhat new to
the business, could not resist his proclivities, and darted after
Tom and Jeremiah. Phoebe, in terror, screamed, " Come
back, Tom ! come back 1 "

Her voice reached Tom's ears, and he instantly turned
back, followed by Toby. Arrived at his starting-point, he

dropped Jeremiah to the ground, who slowly rose, in a
woeful plight. His nice new clothes were disarranged ;
buttons were off; there was a rent here and there; he
picked up his nice new hat, crushed and out of shape.

"Why don't you hit one of your own size ? " he cried,
with his right elbow raised to protect his face.

I haven't hit you yet," said Tom. Phoebe was clinging
to his arm. " And now I look at you, I af?i a little too big
for you. But you've got to be hit by some one."

I'll have the law of you ! " gasped Jeremiah, gazing ruefully
at his hat. " You shall pay for it, or my name ain't
Jeremiah Pamflett."

Oh ! Jeremiah Pamflett, is it ? " said Tom, in no wise
diverted from his intention by the intelligence.

Come away, Tom," said Phoebe, imploringly. " Let us
go home."

If anything could have contributed to Jeremiah's escape,
it was this; but Tom Barley's spirit was roused, also his
sense of justice, and under such influences he could be
firm.

In a minute or two," he said to her. " There's nothing

And he pinched fne ! " exclaimed a girl, light dawning
upon her, and through her upon other of Jeremiah's
victims.

"He pinched me!''' "He pinched me'' came in a
chorus from half a dozen indignant girls.

That settles it," said Tom. " Is there any one here of
his own size, or less, that '11 tackle him for twopence and a
brandy-ball ? "

Couldn't speak fairer," said one of the show-men.

Now among the crowd was a very small boy, several
inches below Jeremiah Pamflett in height, but so renowned
for his pluck that he had earned the cognomen of " The
Bantam."

Forth stepped the Bantam. *' I will ! " said he.

Hooray ! " cried the other boys and girls. " Hooray
for the Bantam ! "

Bray-vo, little un ! " said the show-man.

Here's your twopence," said Tom Barley, " and your
brandy-ball. Fight him."

Make a ring," said the show-man, delightedly arranging
the children in a circle. "I'll see that it's fair play."

Jeremiah and the Bantam were already in the centre, the
Bantam with his coat off and his shirt sleeves tucked up.
Jeremiah, looking down upon him, inwardly congratulated
himself.

Come on," he said, "and be made a jelly of ! "

Nothing daunted, the Bantam squared up, and the battle
commenced. It looked "any odds on the long un," the
show-man declared, as he inwardly determined to protect
the little fellow from too severe a punishment. But a
wonder was in store. Despite his size, Jeremiah found it
impossible to reach the Bantam, who skipped about in the
liveliest fashion, springing up and planting one on Jeremiah's
nose, and another on his right eye, and another on
his mouth, which puffed up his lips and set all his teeth
chattering. In a short time he did not know exactly where
he was, and he hit out more wildly. The audience cheered
the little champion, and encouraged him by crying, " Go it.
Bantam ! Go it ! Give him another on the nose !" and
every now and then " Time ! " was called by the show-man,

who declared that the Bantam was " a chap after his own
heart." At length, Jeremiah Pamflett, completely bewildered,
stepping back, tripped and fell flat.

Any more ? " cried the Bantam.

Jeremiah remained on the ground, and did not attempt
to rise. The show-man threw up his hat.

We gives in," he said. " Three cheers for the Bantam ! "

They were given with a will ; and then a collection was
made, and the champion was presented with fourpence
half-penny, and, wiping his glory-covered brows, stalked off
to the sweet-stuff shop, accompanied by his admirers. Tom
and Phoebe took their departure, and the show-men
shouldered their Punch and Judy, and walked away with
Toby. Jeremiah picked himself up, and crawled to the
railway station, shorn of his pride.

•^-^

MISER FAREBROTHER ENVIES FAUST.

By the time that Phoebe was eighteen years of age, Jeremiah
Pamflett was firmly established in Miser Farebrother's office
in London. In the miser's shrewd eyes he had justified the
praise his mother had bestowed upon him. A slyer,
smarter manager, Miser Farebrother could scarcely hope
to have. Even the miser himself could not be more exacting
with tardy borrowers or more grinding in the collecting
of rents ; for Miser Farebrother had now a great many
houses in the poor localities of the metropolis, which, at the
rents for which he let them, paid him a high rate of interest
for his outlay. He had not, in the first instance, purchased
these houses, nor had he ever drifted into the folly of
building one. It was property he had advanced money
upon, which had not been repaid, and as he had calculated
all the chances beforehand, lending at exorbitant interest,
and draining, so to speak, the hearts' blood of his customers,

he made rare bargains in this line. Had he followed his
own inclination he would have trusted no man to manage
his business; but rheumatism and neuralgic pains were
firmly settled in his bones, and frequently for days together
he was unable to move out of Parksides. Then Jeremiah
Pamflett would come down to him with papers and books,
and they would remain closeted together for hours going
over the accounts. He had his own private sets of books
in Parksides, and he turned Phoebe to account in making
them up and in writing for him. This was not a regular,
but a fitful employment with the young girl, and her father
was satisfied to spare her to go to London, to the house of
Aunt Lethh in Camden Town, to whom she paid long visits.
In that house it may be truly said that Phoebe enjoyed the
sunshine of life. Aunt Lethh, who taught her own children
at home — not caring to send them to school, and not
being rich enough to afford a private governess or a tutor
for them — taught Phoebe also, and the firmest bonds of
love were cemented between them. When Mrs. Lethbridge
had married, her house was not at all badly furnished;
friends and relatives of her husband had made them many

useful household presents, and Mr. Lethbridge had received
from his father a special sum to be expended on house
furniture. Although but little of a worldly man, Mr.
Lethbridge had purchased furniture of a substantial description,
and the care taken of it by his good wife made it
quite respectable-looking, even after long years of wear and
tear. Perhaps the most acceptable of all the wedding
presents was a famous piano from a generous uncle, which
she cherished and preserved. It was, indeed, to her
almost as a living member of her family, and she grew to
have a strong affection for it. This will be understood by
those who love music as Mrs. Lethbridge did. More and
more endeared to them did this treasure become with age,
and numberless were the pleasant evenings it afforded
I hem, especially in the spring-time of life, when the hearts
of the young people were filled with sweet dreams. By its
means they learnt to sing and dance, and poor and struggling
as the home of the Lethbridges actually was — evidences
of which, mind you, were never seen by others than themselves
— there were hours spent in it which richer people
might have envied.

Miser Farebrother was content. Phoebe was obtaining:
an education which did not cost him a shilling, and the
meals she ate in her aunt's house were a saving to him.
Aunt Lethh also was quite a skilful dress maker, and she
made all Phoebe's dresses. A cunning milliner too.
Phoebe's hats and bonnets, albeit inexpensive, were marvels
of prettiness. All this was worth a deal to Miser Fare-brother,
who grudged every shilling it cost him to live. He
gave nothing to the Lethbridges in return, nor was he
asked to give anything. Since Phoebe was fourteen years
of age Aunt Lethh had not set foot inside the gates of
Parksides.

Let it be well understood," said Miser Farebrother to
his daughter, *' I am nothing to them, and they are nothing
to me. If they expect me to do anything for them, they
will be disappointed, and they will have only themselves to
blame for it."

They don't expect you to do anything for them," said
Phoebe, with a flush of shame on her face. " They never
so much as give it a thought."

How should they ? How should they ? " retorted

Miser Farebrother. " It would be so unnatural, wouldn't
it ? so very unnatural ; they being poor, as they say they
are, and I being rich as they think I am ! They do say
they're poor, now, don't they ? "

No," said Phoebe, considering ; " I never remember
their saying so. But they have as much as ever they
can do to get along nicely. I know that without being
told."

So have we all, more than ever we can do. can't get
along nicely. Everything goes wrong with me — everything ;
and everybody tries to cheat me. If I wasn't as sharp asa
weasel we shouldn't have a roof over our heads. It's the
cunning of your aunt and uncle that they don't complain.
They say to themselves, 'That old miser, Farebrother' —
they do call me an ' old miser,' don't they, eh ? " — he asked,
suddenly, breaking off.

I never heard them, father."

But they think it," said Miser Farebrother, looking at
Phoebe slyly; "and that's worse — ever so much worse.
With people who speak out, you know where you are ; it's
the quiet cunning ones you have to beware of. They say

to themselves, ' That old miser Farebiother will see through
us if we complain to his daughter. He'll think we want
him to give us some of his money, and that wouldn't please
him, he's so fond of it. It will be by far the best to let
Phoebe tell him of her own accord, and work upon his feelings
in an accidental way, and then perhaps he'll send us a
pound or two.' Oh, I know these clever people — I know
them well, and can read them through and through ! I
should like to back them for cunning against some very
sharp persons."

You do them a great injustice, father. They are the
dearest people in all the wide world — "

Of course they are — of course they are," said Miser
Farebrother, with a dry laugh. "They have been successful
in making you believe it, at all events. That proves
their cunning ; it's part of their plan."

It is not," said Phoebe, warmly; " they have no plan of
the kind, and as to saying that they have led me on to
speak to you about their troubles, and work upon your
feelings, you couldn't imagine anything farther from the
truth."

"Their troubles, eh! — they let you know they have
troubles?"

If you mean that they wish to get me to talk about
them to you, no, father ; they haven't let me know in that
way. I can see them myself, without being told; and no
one can help loving Aunt Lethh for her patience and cleverness.
Upon my word, it's perfectly wonderful how sh
manages upon the salary Uncle Lethh gets from the bank.
Now, father, you know that you yourself have led me onto
speak of this." (When Phoebe was excited she emphasized
a great many words, so that there should be no
possibility of her meaning being mistaken.) "/ didn't
commence it ; you did."

No, Phoebe ; it was you that commenced it."
How could I, when I never said a word ? "
I saw what was in your mind, Phoebe. You were
going to ask me for something for them ; it's no use your
denying it. I knew it when you shifted about the room,
moving things that didn't require moving, and then
moving them back again, and keeping on looking at me
every now and then when you thought I wasn't looking at

you. Oh, I was watching you when you least expected it.
I am not easily deceived, and not often mistaken, Phoebe
—eh ? "

This was embarrassing, and Phoebe could not help a
little laugh escaping her ; for it was a fact that she was
watching for a favourable opportunity to ask her father a
favour in connection with her relatives. He, observing
her furtively from under his brows, perceived that his shot
had taken effect, and he waited for Phoebe to continue the
conversation, enjoying her discomfiture, and secretly
resolving that the Lethbridges should not get a penny
from him, not a penny. Phoebe was in hopes that he
would assist her out of her dilemma, and throw out a hint
upon which she could improve ; but her father did not
utter a word, and she was herself compelled to break the
silence.

Well, father, I 7C'as going to say something about Aunt
and Uncle Lethh and my cousins."

I knew you were."

I have been there a great deal, and they have been

very kind to me. If I ever forget their kindness I shall be
VOL. I. 7

the most ungrateful girl in the world. Think of the years
I have been going to their house, and stopping there, and
always being made welcome — "

Stop a minute, Phoebe," interrupted her father.
"think of the years!' — yes, yes — you are getting" —
and now he regarded her more attentively than he had
done for a long time past, and seemed to be surprised at a
discovery which forced itself upon him — " You are getting
quite a woman — quite a woman ! "

Yes, father," said Phoebe, quietly and modestly ; " I
shall be eighteen next Saturday. Aunt Lethh was saying
only last week how like I was to my dear mamma."

Miser Farebrother rose and hobbled across the room and
back. It was with difficulty he did this, his bones were so
stiff; but when Phoebe stepped forward to assist him, he
motioned her angrily away. He accepted, however, the
crutch stick which she handed to him ; he could not get
along without it, but he snatched it from her pettishly.
Her mention of her mother disturbed and irritated him.
He recalled the few days of her unhappy life at Parksides,
and the picture of her death-bed recurred to his mind

with vivid force. There was a reproach in it which he
:ould not banish or avoid. At length he sank into his
firm-chair, coughing and groaning, and averting his eyes
"rom Phoebe. She was accustomed to his humours, and she
stood at the table patiently, biding his time.

You have made me forget what I was about to say," he
began.

I am sorry, father."

You are not sorry ; you are glad. You are always
;thwarting and going against me. What makes you speak
;o me of your mother in a voice of reproach ? Tell me
that. You have been egged on to it ! " And he thumped
this crutch stick viciously on the floor.

I have not been egged on to it," said Phoebe, with
spirit ; " and it is entirely a fancy of yours that I spoke in
1 tone of reproach."

It is no fancy ; I am never wrong — never. Your
mother died when you were almost a baby in arms. You
tiave no remembrance of her ; it isn't possible that you can
remember her."

''I do not remember her, father," said Phoebe, with a

7-2

touch of sadness in her tone; "but Aunt Lethh has a portrait
of her, which I often and often look at, and I am glad
to know that I am like her. You surely can't be displeased
at that ? "

*aunt Lethhhhhh ! Aunt Lethhhhhh ! Aunt Lethhhhhh!" he exclaimed,
fretfully ; and then, with unreasonable vehemence, " Why
do you try to irritate me ? "

'' I do not try," said Phoebe, " and I do not thwart and
go against you."

"You do — in everything. You don't care to please me ;
you don't take the least trouble to carry out my wishes.
Being confined, on and off, to this house for years by my
cursed rheumatism, unable, as you know, to go to my
London office, and forced to trust to a man who may be
robbing me secretly all the time he is in my service, I have
endeavoured to train you to be of some assistance to me,
and to make up my accounts here when I am too weak and
in too much pain to make them up for myself. What has
been the result ? Upon looking over the papers you have
written I have seldom found one of them correct. Nothing
but errors in the casting-up and in the calculations of interest

— errors which would have been the ruin of me
had I taken your work for granted. It wouldn't matter
so much if your mistakes were in my favour, but they
are not ; they are always against me. The sum total is
always too little instead of too much. Is this what
I have a right to expect from a child I have nourished
and fed ? "

I can't help it, father. I have told you over and over
again that I have no head for figures."

' No head for figures !' " he muttered. " Where should
/ be, I'd like to know, if I had no head for figures ? In
the workhouse, where you'll drive me to in the end. You
will be satisfied then — eh ? "

I cannot help it, father," Phoebe repeated. " I never
could add up so as to be depended upon ; I never cotdd
calculate interest ; I never could subtract or multiply. If
it hadn't been for Aunt Lethh, I don't believe I should ever
have been able to read or write at all."

Oh, you throw that in my teeth, because I was too poor
to afford a governess for you ? "

Not at all, father. You do what you think is best, I

dare say. I only mention it out of justice to Aunt Lethh, of

whom you have not a good opinion."

How do you know that ? Have I ever troubled myself
about her at all ? Did I commence this, or you ? Am I
in the habit of dragging her name into our conversations for
the purpose of speaking ill of her ? "

Neither of speaking ill or well, father. That is what
I complain of. After what she has done for me you might
have acted differently toward her."

Ah, it's coming now. She has egged you on ! "

She has not," said Phoebe, stamping her foot ; her loyal
nature was deeply wounded by those shafts aimed at one
she loved so well. " She hasn't the slightest idea that I had
it in my mind to speak to you at all about her, and I have
had it in my mind for a long time past."

I remember now what I was going to say a minute ago.
We will go upon sure ground, you, I, and your precious aunt
and uncle. We will have no delusions. They think I am
rich— eh?"

They have never said a word about your money ; they
are too high-minded."

But they do think I am rich. Now I will let you into
a secret, and you can let them into it if you like. I am not
rich ; I am a pauper ; and when I die you will find yourself
a beggar."

Aunt Lethh will give me a home, father, when it comes
to that."

That's your affection ! — taking the idea of my death so
coolly. But I am not going to die yet, my girl — not yet,
not yet. Why, there was a man who grew to be old, much
older than I am, and who was suddenly made young and
handsome and well-formed, with any amount of money at
his command — •"

Oh, hush, father ! These are wicked thoughts. You
make me tremble."

Why do you provoke me, then ? " he cried, raising
his crutch stick as though he would like to strike her.
You see how I am suffering, and you haven't a spark
of feeling in you. Haven't I enough to put up with
already, without being irritated by my own flesh and
blood ? There was such a man, and there's no harm
in speaking of him. What was his name ? This infernal

rheumatism drives everything out of my head. What was

his name''

"Faust"

You have read about him ? "

Yes ; and I went to the theatre and saw the most lovely
opera about it. I can play nearly all the music in it."

'you can play, eh ? How did you manage that ? Who
gave you lessons ? "

*aunt Lethh. She has a beautiful piano."

'' You never told me you had been to the theatre."

^' I have told you often that I have been with Aunt and
Uncle Lethh to different theatres."

'^ But to this particular one, where the opera was played ? "

** Yes, I told you, father. You must have forgotten it."

"The opera ! An expensive amusement which only rich
people can afford. Your aunt took you, of course ? "

"Yes."

And she is poor, eh ? — so very, very poor that it is quite
wonderful how she manages ! "

She had a ticket given to her for a box that almost
touched the ceiling. She could net afford to pay for it.

Every time she has taken me to a theatre it was with a
ticket given to her by Uncle Lethh's relations. She is poor."

"And I am poorer. If you have read about Faust — if
you go to the theatre and see him, why do you call me
wicked for simply speaking of him ? Is there really any
truth in it, I wonder ? There are strange things in the
world. Cou/cf life and youth be bought ? If it could — if it
could — " He paused, and looked around with trembling
eagerness.

Phoebe was too much frightened to speak for a little
while ; her fathers eager looks and words terrified her. Ina
few minutes he recovered himself, and said, coldly,

"Finish about your aunt and uncle."

"Yes, father, I will. It isn't much I want. Next Saturday
is my birthday, and Uncle Lethh comes home early from
his bank. He has never been to Parksides ; and Aunt
Lethh hasn't been here for years. May I ask them to come
in the evening ?"

Is that all — you are sure that is all ? "

"Yes, that is all."

Miser Farebrother felt as if a great weight had been lifted

from his heart. He had been apprehensive that Phoebe

intended to ask him to lend them a sum of money.

They wished me," said Phoebe, " to spend my birthday
at their house ; but I thought I should like them to come
here instead. They made a party for me last year, and the
year before last too ; and it is so mean to be always taking
and never giving."

I don't agree with you. If people like to give, it shows
they get a pleasure out of it, and it is folly to prevent them.
But if you've set your heart upon it, Phoebe — "

'•' Yes, I have, father."

Well, you can ask them ; unless," he added, with a
sudden suspicion, "you have already arranged everything."


Nothing is arranged. Thank you, father."

*' They will come after tea, I suppose ?"

No," said Phoebe, blushing for shame ; " they will come
before tea."

Will they bring it with them? "

"Oh, father!"

"What do you mean by 'Oh, father'? / can't afford

to give parties. / can't afford to go to the theatres. If
people have orders given to them, they have to pay for
them somehow."

I can give them a cup of tea, surely, father ? "

I suppose you must," he grumbled. " We shall have
to make up for it afterward. What are you looking at me
so strangely for ? "

I should like to buy a cake for tea," said Phoebe, piteously
; she was almost ready to cry, but she tried to force a
smile as she added, 'rand I have just twopence for my fortune.
Look, father : here is my purse. That won't pay
for a cake, will it ? Give me something for a birthday
present."

To waste in cakes," he said, with a wry face. "Where
should I have been if I had been so reckless ? But you'll
worry me to death, I suppose, if I refuse." He unlocked
a drawer, and took out a little packet, which he untied.
There were ten two-shilling pieces in it, and he gave Phoebe
one of them, weighing them first in his hand, and selecting
the lightest and oldest. " There. Never tell anybody that
I am not generous to you."

Phcbe turned the florin over in the pal of her hand

-de,editdt,tious.y;bt.tshebrighteneduppresent.y,and
"massinger father, left the room with a cheerful face

A DAY-DREAMER IX London STREETS.

Now as to the Lethbridges, concerning whose characters
and peculiarities it is necessary to say something more.

There was Mrs. Lethbridge, whom we already know,
affectionately called Aunt Lethh, not only by Phoebe, but by
a great many young people who were on terms of friendship
with her. And to be on such terms with such a woman
was worth while, for she was not only a magnet that
attracted love, she was a sun that bestowed it. There was
mr. Lethhhbridge, for the same reason called Uncle Lethh by
his young friends, and delighted in being so called. There
was Fanny Lethbridge, their only daughter, between whom
and Phoebe passed, under the seal of sacred secrecy, the
most delicious confidences. Lastly, there was Robert Lethbridge,
their only son, a young gentleman of vague and unlimited
views, just entering into the serious business of life,

and who, when things were perfectly smooth between him
and his cousin Phoebe, was addressed as Bob, and at other
times, according to the measure of dignity deemed necessary,
as Robert or Cousin Robert. But it was generally
Bob.

Mrs. Lethbridge, on her last birthday, forty-four ; Mr.
Lethbridge, on his last birthday, forty-eight ; Fanny on her
last birthday, nineteen (with many a sigh at being compelled
to bid farewell to teens); Robert, on his last birthday,
twenty-two. These comprised the family.

To hark back for a moment. It was an undoubted love
match with Aunt and Uncle Lethh. He a bank clerk, with
limited income ; she a young lady, with no income at all.
That was of small account, however. Cupid — the real
one, not the counterfeit — does not pause to consider. They
had a boundless income in their love, and they drew large
checks upon it. Expectations they had none, except that
of being happy. Unlike the majority of expectations,
theirs was fulfilled.

Outwardly and inwardly happy. For instance : their
honey-moon. Was there ever a honey-moon Uke it, though

it was not spent on the Continent ? Never. It was their
opinion, and if you dispute it you do so upon insufficient
evidence. Then, their children. Parents never drew
sweeter delight from their offspring than they from theirs.
It is a species of delight which cannot be bought, being far
more precious than silver and gold, and in the hourly and
daily return for love invested it proclaims itself an incomparable
speculation. Robert came first, Fanny next. This
was as it should be. The boy to protect the girl, who of the
two was infinitely the wiser. This is often the case with
boys and girls.

The loving couple had a hard fight of it, and much to
learn. They buckled to with willingness and cheerfulness,
took their rubs Lightly, and spread their pleasures so that
they lasted a long time — not making light of them, as
some do, and thus depriving themselves of the greater
part of the enjoyment to be derived from them. As an
example : a visit to the theatre, for which they were now
able to obtain " orders." But it was not so during the first
years of their married life. The contemplated visit used
to be planned weeks beforehand — discussed, laughed over.

enjoyed in the anticipation, but not half so much as in the
realization. As to which theatre, now, and which play?
The grave conversations they had on the point ! It was
really worth while listening to them. Those nights were
gala-nights. After the theatre, a bit of supper, perhaps —
occasionally, but rarely — in a restaurant. The careful study
of the bill of fare ; the selection of the modest dishes ; the
merry words with which they banished the expensive ones
and chose the cheapest — nothing could be more delightful,
nothing more truly enjoyable. They went out to meet
the sun, and revelled in its beams. Worth laying to heart,
this!

Their income of a hundred and eighty sufficed. They
could not save money — but what a mine was the future !

Of the two, the one who drew most largely upon it was
Mr. Lethbridge. The extraordinary demands he made
upon it. and the extraordinary readiness with which his
demands were met ! It will be not unpleasant to linger a
little over this phase of his character, premising, for lucidity,
that in all London could not be found a brighter, more
agreeable day-dreamer.

Thus : Walking to the bank to save the 'bus fare, Mr.
Lethbridge beguiled the way. He had kissed his wife and
Fanny, and saw them smiling at the window, and waving
their hands to him as he passed the house. He went on his
way rejoicing, and straightway began to dream.

What is this he hears ? A meeting of the bank directors
is being held. A messenger appears before Mr. Lethbridge's
desk.

The directors wish to see you, sir."

He prepares to obey the call, leaves his papers and books

in order, pulls up his shirt collar, pulls down his cuffs,

straightens himself generally, and presents himself in the

board-room. There they are, the great magnates, all before

him. The chairman, white-haired, gold-spectacled, and

pleasant-voiced. Others of the directors also white-haired,

sold-spectacled, and pleasant-voiced. Comfortable-looking

gentlemen of the highest respectability, with country houses,

:carriages and horses, first-class railway tickets, and famous

:cellars of wine — all plainly visible in their shirt fronts and

sold watch chains. They gaze at him in approval. He

Down to them. The chairman bends his head slightly, and
VOL. I. 8

smiles a welcome. The other directors follow suit. They
bend their heads slightly, and smile a welcome. It is really
very pleasant.

"Take a seat, Mr. Lethbridge. We wish to say a few
words to you."

He sinks into a chair, and waits for the chairman to
unfold himself. The chairman coughs to clear his voice.

You have served the bank, Mr. Lethbridge, man and
boy, for twenty-eight years. We have observed you for
many years, and are happy to express our approval of the
manner in which you have performed your duties."

What could be better than that ? How delighted they
will be at home when he tells them !

"Always punctual at your post, Mr. Lethbridge. Never
an error in your accounts. We have had no occasion to
complain of the slightest irregularity."

Positive facts, and, although not mentioned till now, carefully
noted by those in authority over him. Of that there
could be no doubt ; and how pleasant and agreeable it was
to hear it ! He had always been confident that his time
would come.

As a substantial mark of our approval, Mr. Lethbridge,
we offer you the desk of our second chief cashier, who is
about to retire on a pension. You will take his place at the
end of the present month, and your salary will be six hundred
pounds per annum."

The chairman rises and shakes hands with him; the
other directors rise and shake hands with him. He retires
from the board room, filled with joy. Everybody in the
bank congratulates him ; he has not an enemy in the establishment.


Being now in the enjoyment of a salary more than three

times as large as that upon which he and his wife have had

to manage since their marriage, he proceeds to the disposal

of it. A little extravagance is allowable ; he must work

down his feelings somehow. A new dress suit for himself,

a new black silk for his wife. His dress suit had lasted him

for Heaven knows how long, and his wife's black silk has

been made over and turned till it really could not be made

over and turned again. Bob shall have the gold watch he

has been promised since childhood, and which father's ship

which certainly has made one of the longest passages on

8-2

record — has been bringing home for the last dozen years.
Fanny shall be suitably provided for. For wife and daughter,
each one dozen pairs of kid gloves, four button, eight button,
a hundred button if they like ; new bonnets, mantles, and
boots ; and also for each a ten-pound note, in a new purse,
to do just as they please with. Phoebe, also, must not be
forgotten. She shall have new gloves, and bonnet, and
mantle, and boots, and money in a new purse. He goes
out with them to make the purchases, and they have the
most delightfully grave consultations and discussions. And
just as the shopkeeper in Regent street is pressing upon
him a most extraordinary bargain in the shape of a new

silk

Yes, just at that moment Mr. Lethbridge arrives at the
bank, punctual, as usual, to the minute. He is in the best
of spirits. His walk from Camden Town has been as good
as a play. Better ; for he is convinced that his dreams will
come true one of these fine days. What does it matter, a
week or two sooner or later ?

A NEW DOMESTIC DRAMA, BY UNCLE Let.

On the evening of the day on which Phoebe received from
her father the gift of a florin, which munificent sum he
deemed to be sufficient to provide for his daughter's birthday
treat to her aunt and uncle Lethh and her cousins, Mr.
Lethbridge wended his way homeward from the bank, indulging,
as he walked, in a more than usually glowing day-dream.
There exists in a great number of poor and struggling
families a common sympathetic legend of a relation who ran
away from home when very young, who has made a fabulous
fortune in a distant land, and who will one day
suddenly present himself to his astonished kinsfolk, and fill
their hearts with joy by pouring untold gold into their laps.
This good genius is always a gray-headed old man, with
bright eyes and a soul of good-nature, and is, of course, invariably
a bachelor — a delightful fiction which insures comfortable

portions to the marriageable girls. " The Indies"
used to be the favourite locality in which the runaway uncle
or cousin made and saved his fortune, but of late years Australia
and America have been pressed into service. Such a
legend had existed in Mr. Lethbridge's family when he was
a youngster ; and as he now walked toward Camden Town,
who should turn up — in his dreams — but a fabulously
wealthy old gentleman, who had come home for the express
purpose of presenting Mr. Lethbridge with no less a sum
than twenty thousand pounds ? Here was a foundation for
the day-dreamer to work upon ! but it was not all. There
was a most important connection nearer to his heart, and
altogether of a more tangible character. Among the friends
of the family was a certain Fred Cornwall, a young barrister
waiting for briefs, regarding whom Mrs. Lethbridge had
more than once confidentially unbosomed herself to her
spouse to the effect that she was certain "he came after
Fanny." Up to the present moment, supposing that Fred
Cornwall had really any serious intentions, this was as far
as he had got ; but it was far enough for Mr. Lethbridge.
The slenderest foundations were sufficiently strong for his

He has left the bank. They gave him a dinner and a
testimonial on parchment, and another in gold, which is now
ticking in the left-hand pocket of his waistcoat. It was the
pleasantness affair. Such things were said of him ! And
the choicest flowers from the banquet table were sent by
hand to his wife and daughter. Simply to think of it made
the tears come into his eyes.

He has bought the lease of the dear old house in Camden
Town. He has no ambition to live in a better, despite the
fact that he is master of twenty thousand pounds. Well,
not quite so much, perhaps, because there was the lease to
pay for, and the smattering up of the house, and some new
furniture to buy for the best rooms. But quite enough,
quite enough.

There is still something to do before the new arrange-merits

are completed, and for this purpose he and his wife
and Fanny are jogging along happily through fashionable
thoroughfares, where the tradesmen have provided in their
windows a veritable Aladdin's cave for their entertainment,
and wherein the ladies of his family, intent upon killing two
birds with one stone, have decided to indulge in a " little
shopping" — of all female occupations the most attractive
and fascinating.

In Regent Street whom should they meet but Fred Cornwall
? Here he is, face to face with them. Mr. Lethbridge
greets him cordially.

Hallo, Fred ! Who would have thought of seeing you ?
Why, where have you been these last three weeks ? On the
Continent ? Of course, of course — I remember your telling
us you were going. Enjoyed yourself, I hope ? Yes !
Very glad, very glad. How brown you look ! When did
you return ? A few hours ago only — ah ! Come round
and see us this evening. You intended to ! That's right.
You'll see an improvement — we've been buying some new
furniture and doing up the house. Do you know anything of
roses, Fred ? I want to put a few dozen standards in the

middle. He was recalled to earth by a clap on his shoulder

and the sound of a mellow voice.

The very man I was coming to see ! How are you,
Lethh, old man ? "

The mellowness of the speaker's voice was matched by
the mellowness of his personal appearance. Good spirits
and good-nature oozed out of him. His clean-shaven face
was round and rubicund ; his eyes had a cheery light in
them; a jolly smile hovered about his mouth. He was a
large man ; his hands, his nose, his head, were massive — it
is the only word that will describe them. But nothing in
him was out of proportion, and the geniality and jollity of
the man were in keeping with his physical gifts. As there
is no occasion for mystery, he may at once be introduced :
Mr. Kislingbury — the reader."

A famous man, Mr. Kislingbury, as you know. Has he
not afforded you opportunities innumerable, of which, as a
sensible man, you have taken full advantage — for it is not
to be doubted that you are an enthusiastic play-goer — for
hearty laughter? Has he not made your sides ache this
many a time and oft, and have you not gone home the

"Very well, I thank you," said Mr. Lethbridge, a little
slowly, not immediately recognizing his friend ; he was not
in the habit of taking a harlequin leap out of his musings ;

it generally occupied him a few moments to get back to
earth. " Very well, very well. Why, it's Kiss ! Glad to
see you, Kiss, glad to see you ! "

Day-dreaming, Lethh ? " inquired Kiss, merrily and
kindly.

Mr. Lethbridge's flights in this direction were well-known
to his friends.

Yes, Kiss, yes. Amusing myself as usual. Upon my
word, I hardly know a better way of passing the time.
Almost as good as a theatre."

Kiss and Mr. Lethbridge were related — second or third
cousins, or something of that sort ; one of those genealogical
connections with mixed marriages which make the headache
— and it was from Kiss that Mr. Lethbridge obtained
orders for the play. Kiss had other and nearer relations,
some of whom were in the habit of visiting Mr. Lethbridge's
house, where, it need scarcely be said, they were more than
welcome, the younger members of Aunt Lethh's family, and
all her other young friends, looking up to these luminaries
with a kind of awe.

"Better than a theatre, I dare say," said Kiss, heartily;

I seldom get as far as that," replied Mr. Lethbridge,
smiling.

"Ah!" said Kiss, "that's because you have no
vanity."

I have a great deal," said Mr. Lethbridge, shaking his
head.

You're no judge of yourself : none of us are of ourselves.
But let your mind run on it a bit ; it will make your nerves
tingle with delight. Not for yourself, perhaps ; for others —
for Aunt Lethh, now ; and pretty Fanny ; and Bob, the
rascal ! "

Yes, for them, for them ! " said Mr. Lethbridge, eagerly.
I will. Kiss ; I will ! — that is, if it comes to me to do it.
For, do you know, what you call ' my pieces ' are really very
curious things, not only in themselves, but in the way they
happen. Quite unexpectedly, Kiss — quite unexpectedly.
Now what do the critics say about the piece — just by way
of example — I've been playing in my walk home from the
bank ? But its rather foolish of me to ask you such a question,
as you are in complete ignorance of the kind of
piece it is."

Wrong, Lethh, wrong. I know a great deal about it ;
more than you are aware of."

Really ? "

Really, and in very truth, my liege lord."

Now this is interesting. It is quite a pleasure, meeting
you in this way. Go on about my piece."

"First and foremost," said Kiss, "to settle the style of
it. I pronounce that it is not a tragedy."

Right ; it is not."

It is not a farce."

Nothing like it — that is, broadly speaking."

I am speaking broadly. It is not a blood-thirsty melodrama,
with a murder in it, and a wedding; or, if not that,
a pair of lovers, just about to be tied together ; or, if not
that, a husband and wife torn from each other's arms. It
amounts to the same thing, because the main point is that
the man is falsely accused of the murder."

Of course he is, said Mr. Lethbridge, " or where should
we be ? "

Exactly," said Kiss, with a humorous imitation of Mr.
Lethbridge's manner. " If that was not the case, where

should we be? Worth considering. Perhaps worse off;
perhaps better. I will not take it upon myself to judge.
We are talking now of the regulation pattern — good old
style, Lethh, hd old. Would stand a bad chance if it were
not for the magnificent scenery and the wonderful dresses,
mechanical changes, houses turned inside out, exteriors
turned outside in, gas lowered to vanishing point to assist
the delusion — splendid opportunity that for the lover and
his lass, in the pit ! Wish I was young again, and before
the foot-lights, instead of behind them, so that I might take
my imaginary little girl (whom I adore, from the crown of
her pretty head to the tips of her little shoes) to the pit when
such a melodrama, with the lights turned down, is being
played. When I say 'regulation pattern,' Lethh, don't mistake
me ; I am not speaking against it. As for originally —
well, perhaps the least said about it the better. We were
rehearsing a new melodrama the other day, and the subject
cropped up on the stage. The scene-painter was there, and
he took part in the discussion, though he spoke never a
word."

How could he do that without speaking ? "

Well, he winked''

I don't see much in that," observed Mr. Lethbridge,
somewhat mystified.

Of course you don't, the reason being " — and good
humour beamed in every feature of Kiss's merry face —
*that you are not, like myself, a cynic."

Come, that's good," protested Mr. Lethbridge : " you a
cynic ! "

I would not have my enemies say so," said Kiss ; "and
don't you betray me at home. So it is settled that your
piece is not a tragedy, nor a broad farce, nor a melodrama
with a murder in it. Nor is it a comedy of character,
bristling with smart sayings — everybody saying clever, ill-natured
things about everybody else. No, Lethh ; your
piece is a simple domestic drama, lighted up by the
sweetest stars of life — the stars of pure love and a happy
home"'

You have," said Mr. Lethbridge, stirred by the

feeling which his friend threw into the words, " a

remarkable felicity of expression. You are almost — a

poet."

VOL. I. 9

"A bread-and-butter poet, then. Yes; a simple drama
of domestic life, upon which the stars of love and home are
shining. That's what the critics say the next morning : ' It
is refreshing to come across a play so sweet, so natural, so
human. Here are no high flights of the imagination ; no
violent twisting of ordinary events to serve a startling purpose
; no dragging in of abnormal, precocious children, to
show how clever they are ; nothing, in short, out of drawings
or out of proportion. The play is an idol, in which all that
is wholesome in every-day life is brought into prominence
to gladden the heart and refresh the senses. It leaves a
sweet taste in the mouth, and when the curtain fell upon
the delightful story, the author was called again and again,
and applauded with a heartiness which must have sent him
home rejoicing to the bosom of his family. We trust that
the success he won and deserved will encourage him to
further efforts in this direction, and that on many future
occasions he will charm and beguile us as he did last night.
His feet are firmly planted on the ladder of fame, and he
has only to go on as he has begun, to make his name a
household word.' "

Upon my word," said Mr. Lethbridge, " you almost
take away my breath."

But am I a true diviner ? " asked Kiss.

About the critics ? "

'about the piece — your piece ?"

You are a wizard. I think if I were a dramatic author
I should try to write precisely the kind of play you have
described. You see, there is little else in my mind. But
I am afraid you are wrong about the critics."

Not at all," persisted Kiss. " Critics are human, like
other people ; and search the whole world through, you will
find no song more popular than ' Home, sweet Home.' "

^si^^^Jil&'.pf^-

9-2

'amelia jane, goddess of pots and pax?.

^^'HILE this conversation was proceeding there stood at a
little distance from the speakers a man who had been walking
arm in arm with the actor when the friends met, and
who fell apart from Kiss when he clapped Mr. Lethbridge
upon the shoulder. He was an anxious-eyed man, nervous,
fidgety, with a certain tremulousness of limb and feature,
denoting a troubled nature. His age was some thirty-five
or thereabouts ; his clothes were respectable and shabby;
and although he took no part in the conversation, and did
not obtrude himself, he did not remove his eyes from Kiss
and Mr. Lethbridge. Kiss, turning, beckoned to him, and
he joined the friends.

"You heard what we've been talking about," said the
actor. " What do you think of it ? "

'•'I wish," said the man, "that I could write such a piece'*

But," said the man, " I don't believe it would be a
success."

Wait a moment," said Kiss ; " I am forgetting my
manners. Mr. Linton — Mr. Lethbridge."
The two shook hands.

Mr. Linton," said Kiss to Mr. Lethbridge, in explanation,
"/V a dramatic author, and has written plays."
Mr. Linton sighed, and fidgeted with his fingers.
Has he ?" exclaimed Mr. Lethbridge. "And they have
been played, of course ? "

Mr. Linton sighed again, and inclined his head.
I am really delighted," said Mr. Lethbridge. " I have
never in my life spoken to a dramatic author, and have
never shaken hands with one. Will you allow me ? "

They shook hands again, Mr. Lethbridge effusively, Mr.
Linton with mingled bashfulness, pride, and awkwardness.
• " Successful pieces, I am sure," observed Mr. Lethbridge


More or less so," said Kiss. " We must take our rubs,
my dear Lethh."

Of course, of course. We've got to take them."

"That's what I'm always telling Linton. Averse got to
take 'em. Why, you, now," pointing his finger at Mr.
Lethbridge, " you're not a public man, and you have your
rubs."

'' I am not free from them," said ]mr. Lethbridge, in a
cheerful voice.

*' There, now, Linton," said Kiss, with the manner of one
who desired to point a moral, " our friend Lethbridge here
is not a public man, and /le has rubs. So you don't think
his piece would be a success ? Why, Symphonies ? "

An author must follow the fashion," replied Mr. Linton,
"if he wants to live."

"He wants that, naturally." And here Kiss took Mr.
Lethbridge aside, with, " Excuse me, Linton, a moment,"
and whispered, confidentially, "A little dashed. Had a
knock-down blow. Last piece a failure. Produced a fortnight
ago. Ran a week. I was in it, but could not save it.
Consequence, out of an engagement ; not serious to me,

"The public," said Mr. Linton, "require red fire. Give
it them. They want murders. Supply them. They want
the penny-dreadful on the stage. Fling it at their heads.
Ah ! Lve not been as wise as some I know."

In point of ability," whispered Kiss again to Mr. Lethbridge,
" he could wipe out the authors he refers ta Excuse
him ; he is not a bit malicious or envious ; but he has been
stung, and he's writhing. If you heard me read the play
that failed, you would require a dozen pocket-handkerchiefs.
He slaved at it for eight months ; and dreamt of success
with empty platters on his table. I wonder if people know

anything of this, or ever give it a thought ? But it won't
do to encourage him. It does him good to lash out ; but
we must not agree with him when he's wrong. In his new
play there's a part I should like to take. He wrote it with
me in his eye. All will come right ; till the time arrives,
he must grin and bear it. ' Suffering is the badge of all his
tribe.' But there are big plums in the pudding, old fellow,
and his day to pick 'em will comer"' Then he said aloud to
the moody author : " Don't talk stuff and nonsense. You
don't copy, as a rule ; you're original, and I make my bow
to you ; but in what you said you are copying the latitudinarian.
What the public want are good plays, such as you
can write, and good actors, who are not so scarce as croakers
would have us believe. Cheer up, Linton ! Where would
be the glory of success if we could have it by whistling for
it ? Why, here we are at your very door, Lethh I Now I
call that singular."

Why ? -•' asked Mr. Lethbridge.

Because we were coming to see you, to ask a favour."
Anything I can do," said Mr. Lethbridge, knocking at
the door, "you may depend upon."

I told you so, Linton," said Kiss.

The dramatic author brightened up for a moment, but
fell again immediately into a state of despondency.

'' You're just in time for tea," said Mr. Lethbridge, kissing
his wife, who opened the door for them. 'come in, come
in. I've brought you some visitors, mother. '\

How do you do, Mr. Kiss ? " said Mrs. Lethbridge,
shaking hands with the always welcome actor.

Mother," said Mr. Lethbridge, " this is Mr. Linton, the
celebrated author."

I am glad to see you, sir," said Mrs. Lethbridge, inwardly
disturbed by the thought that she had not got out
her best tea service. " Mr. Kiss, will you take Mr. Linton
into the drawing-room ? You are at home, you know.
Fanny and Bob will be in presently. Phoebe is here,
father."

In point of fact, Phoebe, Fanny, and Bob, excited by the
sound of the arrival of visitors, were on the first-floor landing,
peeping over the balustrade to see who they were.

It's Mr. Kiss," whispered Fanny.

"And a strange gentleman," whispered Bob.

Uncle Lethh said," whispered Phoebe, " ' the celebrated
author.' I wonder if he's joking ? "

They are going to stop to tea," whispered Fanny, " and
mother has sent them into the drawing-room while she gets
out the best tea-things. We must go and help her."

Aunt Lethh, from the passage below, coughed aloud,
having detected the presence of the young people, and
there was an instant scuttling away above, and a sound of
smothered laughter. To Aunt Lethh's relief, this was not
noticed by her visitors, who made their way into the .
It was called so more from habit than because
it was a room set apart for holiday and grand occasions ;
there was no such room in the house of the Lethbridges,
which was a home in the truest sense of the word.

Aunt Lethh was deeply impressed by the circumstance of
having a celebrated author in her house, and when the
drawing-room door was closed, she asked her husband in
the passage — speaking in a very low tone — what he had
written.

"Why, don't you know, mother? " said Mr. Lethbridge ;
but the superior air he assumed — as though he was intimately

No, father," said Mrs. Lethbridge; adding, triumphantly,
and I don't believe you do, either."

"Well, to tell you the truth," said Mr. Lethbridge, with
a little laugh, " I don't. But he is very celebrated. Mr.
Kiss says so. He writes plays, and his last one was not a
success. It has troubled him greatly, poor fellow. Give
us a good tea, mother."

Mrs. Lethbridge nodded, and sent him in to his visitors,
and went herself down to the kitchen to attend to her
domestic arrangements, where she was presently joined by
her children and Phoebe.

"We don't want you, Bob," said Mrs. Lethbridg3 to' her
son ; "go and join the gentlemen."

I'd sooner stop here, mother," said Robert.

Go away, there's a good boy," said the mother; "you
will only put things back."

Robert, however, showed no inclination tc leave the

kitchen, but hovered about Phoebe Uke a butterfly about a

flower.

^^ Do you hear what mother says? " demanded Fanny, imperiously
; she was given to lord it occasionally over her
brother. " Go at once, and listen to the gentlemen, and
have your mind improved."

Now you're chaffing me," said Robert, "and you knoAV
that always puts my back up."

Mrs. Lethbridge looked around with affectionate distraction
in her aspect.

Go, Robert," said Phoebe.

Not if you call me ' Robert,' said he.

Well, Bob."

"All right, I'll vanish. Fanny, there's a smut on your
nose."

Which caused Fanny to rub that feature smartly with her
handkerchief, and then to ask Phoebe in a tone of concern,
Is it off? " This sent Robert from the kitchen laughing,
while Fanny called out to him that she would pay him for
it. She laughed too, when he was gone, and declared that
he was getting a greater tease every day. Presently all was

In these days of fine-maidservants, the mere mention of
so inestimable a treasure is an agreeable thing ; for if ever
there was a devoted, untiring, unselfish, capable, cheerful
slave of the broom and the pan, that being was 'Amelia Jane.
Up early in the morning, without ever being called ; up late
at night, without a murmur ; no Sundays out, as a law, the
violation of which was a graver matter than the separation
of church and state ; cooking, scrubbing, washing, with a
light heart, and as happy as the day is long. Could I write
an epic, I would set about it, and call it " 'Amelia Jane."

Not a beauty ; somewhat the reverse, indeed. But

*• Lor ! " as she used to say, scratching her elbow, " beauty's
only skin-deep." Nevertheless, she worshipped it in the
persons of Fanny and Phoebe, to whom she was devotedly
attached. Of the two, she leaned, perhaps, more closely
and affectionately to Phoebe, for whom she entertained the
profoundest admiration, "Genus," she declared, "couldn't
'old a candle to 'er." And had she been asked, in the way
of disputation, under what circumstances and to what intelligible
purpose that goddess could be expected to hold a
candle to Phoebe, she would doubtless have been prepared
with a reply which would have confounded the interrogator.

She had a history, which can be briefly recorded.

Like all careful housewives with limited incomes, Mrs.
Lethbridge had her washing "done" at home, and 'Amelia
Jane's mother, in times gone by, was Aunt Lethh's washerwoman.
She died when 'Amelia Jane was ten years old,
and the child, being friendless and penniless, was admitted
into Mrs. Lethbridge's kitchen as a kind of juvenile
help. She proved to be so clever and willing, and so
'' teachable," as Mrs. Lethbridge said, that when the old
servant left to get married, 'Amelia Jane took her place, and

Robert burst into the kitchen in a state of great excitement.


Mother, you didn't tell me ^Nlr. Linton was a dramatic
author. Just think, Phcube; he writes plays! Isn't it
grand?"

The girls opened their eyes very wide. There was indeed
a luminary in the house, a star of the first magnitude. A
dramatic author ! It was enough to make them tremble.

But why have you left them, Bob ? " asked ^Slrs. Lethbridge.


"I was told to go," replied Robert. "They did not
want me. They're talking business."

'' Business ! " exclaimed Mrs. Lethbridge. " What business
can they have with father ? "

"Perhaps," suggested Robert, "he is going to take a
theatre, and Mr. Linton is going to write the plays, and
^h. Kiss is going to act in them."

What nonsense you talk ! " said Mrs. Lethbridge.

Mother," said Robert, solemnly, " my mind's made up."

"A very small parcel," remarked Fanny, thus paying him
off for the smut on her nose.

"I'm serious," said Robert; "I'm fixed — yes, fixed as
the polar star. That sounds well. I shall go on the
stage."

And off again, very quick," said Fanny.

What ! turn actor. Bob ? " exclaimed Mrs. Lethbridge.

Yes," said Robert, folding his arms ; ''a second Irving."

Avaunt, and quit my si^^ht ! " cried Phoebe, seizing the
rolling-pin and striking an attitude.

They all fell to laughing, and 'Amelia Jane stared at the
young people, with her eyes almost starting out of their
sockets.

KISS HAS SOMETHING TO SAY ABOUT THEATRIC Af.
MANAGERS.

Meanwhile the gentlemen upstairs were discussing a
serious subject.

"I told you about our friend's play," said Kiss to Mr
Lethbridge — " his unreservedly unsuccessful play, produced
a fortnight since at the Star Theatre. There are lines in it
which would make the fortune of a poet, but these are not
poetical days — on the stage. At a certain theatre, where
an eminent brother of the craft, to whom I take off my hat""
he had no hat to take off, but he went through the
necessary action — "has the ear of the public, and a following
which is simply amazing to contemplate — at that theatre,,
I grant you, the poetical drama can be produced with great
results ; and also at one other temple of the drama, where

a lady, admired and loved by all, reigns as queen ; but
VOL. I. 10

produced elsewhere, it is risky, very. It requires, for
success, a perfect and harmonious combination of rare
forces, and such a following as I have spoken of, and these
are only to be found in those two theatres. Do you take ? "

*' Do I understand you?" said Mr. Lethbridge, deeply
interested. " Yes."

"With sicca actors," continued Kiss, "with such an
organization, with such resources, with sigh lavish, but not
unwise, expenditure, with such a following, not only the
poetical drama, but any kind of drama, may be staged with
assured result. Had Linton's play been produced there, you
Avould see him now all smiles instead of down in the dumps.
I don't say to him ' What is the use ? ' A man has his
feelings, and a dramatic author has a double share, which
makes it bad for him when the reverse happens. Linton's
play was not produced at one of the theatres I have indicated
— more's the pity. But a time may come. Do you
hear me, Linton ? "

I am deeply grateful to you," said Mr. Linton. " You
are the best fellow in the world."

That is sentiment, mere sentiment," said Kiss, coughing

down the compliment. *' We are now talking business,
and I am, so to speak, showing our mutual friend the ropes,
and letting him behind the scenes. Not quite the fairy-land
most people imagine. I was engaged for the run of Linton's
play, and as it ran off instead of on, I am now out of an
engagement. Do I blame him? Not a bit of it. He
would have as much reason to blame me. You see, Lethh,
there are certain rules and certains fashions in our line
which it is as dangerous to violate as in most lines of
business. For instance, would you take a shop on the wrong
side of the road ? "

No," replied Mr. Lethbridge, rather vaguely.

There are business sides and business sides. Here,

a shop is worth five hundred pounds a year ; across the road

it isn't worth fifty. So with theatres. Here, comedy ; here,

comic opera ; here, melodrama ; here, spectacle ; here,

Shakespeare and the classic ; and so on, and so on. Risk

the unsuitable and you come to grief. That's what we did ;

for I'm bound to confess that Linton was largely influenced

by my advice in the matter. I had so firm a belief in the

play that I thought it would score anywhere. It did score

10—2

at the Star, but it scored the wrong way, because it was
played at the wrong theatre. A knock-down blow ! What
then ? Why, rise, and at it again ! — yes, though you get a
dozen knock-down blows. Nil desperado : that's my
motto. Life's a fight. Are you waiting for a cue, Linton ? "

You are quite right in your observations," said the poor
author, with a sad smile; "but it is easier for you to rise
after a knock-down blow than it is with me. You are a
favourite with the public ; they welcome you the moment
you make your appearance. The last time I appeared
before them they howled at me. And it meant so much !
It was not only a case of disappointed ambition and

wounded vanity, but there was, at home 1 beg your

pardon ; I scarcely know what I was about to say."

Mr. Lethbridge thought of the empty platters which
Kiss had spoken of, and he gazed commiserating at Mr.
Linton.

Now, wouldn't you suppose," said Kiss, addressing himself
to Mr. Lethbiidge, " that Linton was so overwhelmed
at his failure that he had no heart to try again ? I am
happy to say that is not the case. He has already got

another play ready, a better one than the last, a play that
is bound to hit 'em ? "

I am delighted to hear it," said Mr. Lethbridge, with a
bright smile. " I must come the first night ; we'll all come
mother and Fanny and Phoebe and Bob. I dare say we
shall be able to find room in the pit."

*' Plenty," observed Mr. Linton, moodily.

And bring good thick sticks with you," said Kiss, '' to
help the applause."

When is it to be played," asked Mr. Lethbridge, laughing
at the suggestion of the big sticks, " and where ? "

"Ah," said Kiss, "that's the rub. It is a question not
yet decided."

There are so many managers after it, I suppose ? " said
Mr. Lethbridge, innocently. " Look at it from a business
point of view ; accept the best offer at the best theatre."

Kiss leant back in his chair, and laughed long and loud.
He had a particularly merry laugh, and the sound was heard
in the kitchen.

(that's Mr. Kiss laughing," said Fanny. " The author
has said something funny."

"I hope uncle will remember it," added Phoebe, "and
tell us what it is. How wonderfully an author must talk,
and what wonderful minds they must have ! How ever do
they think of things ? ")

The fact is, Lethh," said Kiss, presently, " we have not
such a choice of managers and theatres as you imagine."

Why, surely," said Mr. Lethbridge, " they are only
too ready to jump at a good play when it is offered
them!"

If I were asked," said Kiss, " who were the worst
possible judges of a manuscript play, I should answer,
theatrical managers. As regards Linton's last effort, which
he has at the present moment in his coat pocket" — (Mr.
Lethbridge knew from this remark what the great bulge was
at Mr. Linton's breast, concerning which he had been
rather puzzling himself; every now and then the dramatic
author put his hand up to the pocket which contained his
manuscript, to make sure that the precious documents were
safe) — "as regards that," continued Kiss, " there is a certain
obtuseness on the part of managers which has to be overcome
before the new play sees the light. They have read

it, and have shaken their heads at it. Now I pit my judgment
against theirs."

So will I," said Mr. Lethbridge.

"And I say there's money and fame in Linton's last.
By-the-way, Linton, that's not at all a bad title for something—'
Linton's Last.' Think of it."

At all events," observed the despondent author, with a
lame attempt at a joke, "there would be an end of me
after that."

Not at all, my boy ; couldn't spare you. As I said,
Lethh, the managers, all but one, shake their heads at Linton's
play, and, like asses, refuse it."

All but one," said Mr. Lethbridge. " He's a fortunate
man, whoever he is."

He is not ^uiVe Mind. Now, Lethh, that is the real
reason of our visit to you."

Indeed I " said Mr. Lethbridge, in great amazement.
"I have no influence, I assure you. I wish I had; I
should be only too ready and willing to use it."

This one manager," pursued Kiss, " who proves himself
to possess some glimmering of common-sense, is,

curiously enough, the manager of the Star Theatre, where

Linton's last piece was produced."

And he wishes to produce the new one," said Mr. Lethbridge.
"That is very good of him."

*•' Oh, he knows what he is about, and he is awake to
the fact that there is a certain fortune in the play. But,
for all that, he is a downy bird — a very downy bird. He
argues. Says he, 'Your last piece, Linton, was almost a
crusher to me.' At which Linton's heart sinks into his
shoes, and he groans, instead of meeting it lightly as he
ought to do. But that is a matter of temperament. * I
had to close my theatre,' says the manager of the Star, 'not
having another piece ready, and here I am paying rent for
shut doors. It has cost me so much,' mentioning a sum,
which my experience tells me is the actual, multiplied by
four. But that's neither here nor there. The manager of
the Star goes on : ' To put the new piece on will cost so
much,' again mentioning a sum multiplied by four. ' What
do you propose to contribute toward it if I make the
venture ? ' 'I give you my brains,' says Linton ; ' that is
all I possess.' ' In that case,' says the manager, ' I am

afraid it is not to be thought of. I can't afford to stand
the entire risk.' I, being present at the interview, step inhere.
I don't intend to apologize to Linton when I tell
you, Lethh, that he is not fit to manage his own business.
'You did produce a play of Linton's,' I say to the manager
it was called Boots and Shoes, Lethh ; no doubt you
remember it — 'out of which you made a pot of money.'
A small pot,' says the manager of the Star; 'a very small
pot.' 'And,' says I, 'which you bought right out for
the miserable sum of fifty pounds.' 'Well,' says the
manager, ' that was the bargain, made with our eyes open.
^Vhen I offered fifty pounds for Boots aid Shoes I did
it for the purpose of doing Linton a good turn. He was
hard up at the time, and I risked the fifty on the off
chance. If I make by one piece I lose by another.'
'Let us come to the point,' says I, 'about the new piece.
You want something contributed toward the expense of
getting it up. How much ? Don't open your mouth too
wide.' ' Two hundred pounds,' says he ; ' not a penny
less.' To tell you the truth, Lethh, I thought he was going
to ask for more. It isn't a very large sum, is it ? "

Not to some people," replied Mr. Lethbridge, with a
cheerful smile.

Pleased to hear you say so. There's more to tell. It
is not putting down the two hundred pounds and saying
good-bye to it ; it will come back in less than no time. The
first profits of the piece will be devoted to repaying the
amount, so that there is really very little risk, if any. Having
stated his conditions the manager of the Star retires, and
we retire also, to consider ways and means. Now I needn't
tell you, Lethh, that we can just as easily lay our hands
upon two hundred pounds as we can bring the man in the
moon down from the skies. The question then is — how to
raise it ? A serious question. We consider long, and at
length a bright idea flashes upon me. I have, in an indirect
way, made the acquaintance of a man who discounts
bills. The acquaintance is slight — very slight; but faint
heart, you know, and I go to him. I will mention his
name to you ; but it must be done in confidence — between
ourselves."

Yes," said Mr. Lethbridge.

His name is Pamflett — Jeremiah Pamflett."

"I know the name of Pamflett," said Mr. Lethbridge.
The father of my niece Phoebe, who is just now on a
visit to us — "

The dearest, sweetest girl ! " said Kiss, in explanation
to Mr. Linton.

Has a housekeeper of that name. Can Mr. Jeremiah
Pamflett be a connexion of hers ?"

"It is not unlikely," said Kiss; "to speak the truth, It
is quite likely. But that is not material, is it ? "

"No," said Mr. Lethbridge, with a slight pause
for consideration ; " I don't think it is. I believe
he manages some kind of business for Phoebe's
father."

For Miser Farebrother ? Yes, that is so ; but he does
business also on his own account. As I was saying, I goto
Mr. Pamflett, and I lay the case before him ; but he
says he doesn't see his way to doing a bib for me and
Linton without other names upon it. I run over the
names of a few friends who would be willing to sign it, but
Mr. Pamflett still demurs. It was then that the bright
idea flashes upon me ; I think of you. To come to you

and ask you to lend us two hundred pounds was, of course,

out of the question."

"I regret to say it would be," said Mr. Lethbridge.
Nothing would give me greater pleasure if it were in my
power."

I know, and therefore we have not come here with any
such idea ; but your name occurring to me while I was
talking to Mr. Pamflett, I naturally mention it. He meets
me instantly. He knows all about you and your family."

He has never been here," interposed Mr. Lethbridge.

He spoke most kindly of you, and said he had the
greatest respect for you — "

"To my knowledge," again interposed Mr. Lethbridge,
I have never seen his face. I shouldn't know him from
Adam if he stood before me now."

Perhaps he knows of you through your niece. However
it is, you would not have been displeased had you heard
him speak of you. The upshot of the affair is that he
makes a proposition by which we shall get the two hundred
pounds required to produce Linton's new play. The
proposition is — and bear in mind that Mr. Pamflett made

it out of pure kindness, and out of the respect in which
he holds you — that Linton should draw a bill at six
months' date for three hundred pounds, and that you
should accept it. Linton, of course, as drawer, will endorse
it, and so will I. If I hand this bill to Mr. Pamflett tomorrow
he will give Linton his cheque for two hundred
pounds, and our friend's fortune is made. The resources
of civilization, my dear Lethh, are wonderful. That a mere
scratch of the pen can make a name famous, can make a
worthy fellow happy, can bring joy to the hearts of a good
woman and her children — you will love Mrs. Linton when
you know her — can snatch a man from the depths of
despair — now, is it not wonderful to think of? They will
bless you, they will remember you in their prayers — but I
will say no more. It remains with you."

In this speech the actor's art, unconsciously exercised,
made itself felt, and it penetrated the very soul of good
Uncle Lethh.

"It does not enter my mind," said Mr. Lethbridge to
Kiss, " that you would deceive me — "

I would cut my right hand off first."

And therefore you will forgive me when I ask you if
there is really no risk ? "

I give you my word and honour, Lethh," said Kiss, very
seriously, "as a man, and, what is more, as a judge of plays,
that there is not the slightest risk. Is my opinion, as an
actor and an honourable man, of any value ? "

Of the highest value ! "

There is not an atom of risk. Linton has his play in
his pocket : he shall read it to you — or, rather, / will read
it to you — before we leave you to-night. Linton is an
execrable reader of his own works. He is so nervous and
fidgety and z^^dramatic that he misses every point. If ever
I feel inclined to punch his head it is when he is reading
his manuscript to the company in the greenroom. Many a
good play has been rejected because of this incapacity ;
many a bad play has been accepted because of the fervour
and the magnetism of the author, who, carried away himself
(frequently by inordinate vanity), has carried away a
theatrical manager, and actors too sometimes, and warped
their judgment. / will read Linton's play fairly, so that
you will be able to form a proper estimate of it. Just consider,

Lethh : the bill is not due for six months. In three or
four weeks at the furthest Linton's piece will be produced.
The manager of the Star Theatre would like to rush it on
sooner, but I shall insist upon a proper number of rehearsals.
I shall stage-manage it myself, and that should be a guarantee.
Two weeks after the production of the piece I shall
have the pleasure — I beg Linton's pardon : /le will have the
pleasure — of handing you the sum of three hundred pounds
in a new suit of clothes. Not the money thus clothed, but
the happy author. That will be four months before the
money is to be paid to Mr. Jeremiah Pamflett. You can
keep it and use it for those four months if you wish."

*' I shall pay it at once," said Mr. Lethbridge, "and get
back the bill."

Then you will do it ? "

I will do it," said Mr. Lethbridge : " and I wish Mr,
Linton every success."

"Linton, old chap," exclaimed Kiss, "your fortune's
made ! "

Mr. Linton raised his eyes. The tears were brimming
over in them, and running down his face.

How can I thank you ? " he said to Mr. Lethbridge.
When everything looked so dark, and when I did not
know which way to turn — " He could not go on.

"There's a silver lining to every cloud," said Kiss, "and
if it can be seen anywhere in this wilderness city it can be
seen here, in my friend Lethh's house. I call a blessing upon
it. When you crossed this threshold you dropped on your
feet. But I told you how it would be. Now, Lethh, perhaps
you would like to hear that, hearing I was out of an engagement,
the manager of the Eden Theatre offered me
terms, but I have such faith in Linton's new piece that I
refused and kept myself open for it."

I am perfectly satisfied," said Mr. Lethbridge.

"We can settle the affair at once, if you like," said
Kiss.

Certainly, at once," assented Mr. Lethbridge.

I brought the bill with me, and here it is on stamped
paper."

He produced it, and Mr. Lethbridge, reading it through,
accepted it, making it payable at the bank in which he had.
for so long a time held a position of trust.

"Aunt Lethh sent me to tell you," said Phoebe, popping
in her head, " that tea is ready."

"Thank you, Phoebe," said Mr. Lethbridge ; "come in.
I want to introduce Mr. Linton, to you."

How little did the bright and beautiful girl suspect that
within the last few moments an awful and tragic thread had
been woven into her life !

She entered the room, and looked timidly at the poor
author.

Not a word for me ? " said Kiss.

Yes, Mr. Kiss," said Phoebe, giving him her hand.

Mr. Linton — Phoebe," said her uncle Lethh, encircling
her waist with his arm. " This is my niece, Mr. Linton,
whom I love as a daughter."

Mr. Pamflett was speaking of you yesterday," said Mr.
Linton.

Mr. Pamflett ! " exclaimed Phoebe, shrinking at the
name.

Yes. He said you were the most lovely girl in all

London, and that there was no service you could call upon

him to render which he would not cheerfully perform."
VOL. I. 11

I scarcely know him, sir," murmured Phoebe.

Let us go in to tea," said Mr. Lethbridge, " or mother
will be impatient. A terrible tyrant, Mr. Linton ; a terrible
tyrant ! "

THE READING OF THE NEW PLAY.

It was the merriest tea-party imaginable ; and Aunt
Lethh's mind was at ease, in consequence of the time which
had been afforded her to make suitable preparations for so
eminent a guest as the dramatic author. In pouring out
the tea, she helped him last, saying gaily,

"The first of the coffee, Mr. Linton, the last of the tea."

A good homely saying," he observed. " I used to hear
it from my mother. Though, really, I do not deserve such
attention."

"Don't believe him, Aunt Lethh," said Kiss. "Your
dramatic author is as fond of the best as any common
mortal."

The idea of comparing a dramatic author to a common

mortal was certainly not to be lightly accepted by the

young folk round the tea-table, who regarded Mr. Linton

11—2

as a being far above and removed from the general run of
people. It was to them almost a surprise that he spoke
and ate in exactly the same way as their other acquaintances ;
and out of the depths of their admiration, everything he
did seemed to be invested with a certain superiority which
raised him above his fellows. They cast timid and covert
looks upon him, and noted his movements, so as to be
able to give a faithful description of him, by-and-by, to
their friends. It was fortunate for him that their observance
was not too obtrusive, or it might have spoilt his
appetite. As it was, he made an excellent tea, and tucked
away the bread and butter and ham and eggs with a zest
which delighted Aunt Lethh. He declared that he had
never tasted such tea, nor such eggs, nor such bacon, nor
such bread and butter, nor such gooseberry jam ; and, if
appearances were to be trusted, and there was any value in
words, never did mortal enjoy himself more than this poor
author, who had been lifted from despair by the generous
kindness of Uncle Lethh. Kiss had imparted, hastily and
confidentially, to Aunt Lethh some particulars of Mr.
Linton's circumstances, and had found time to descant

upon his friend's virtues as a domestic man, of his love for
his wife and children, and of his brave struggles against
fortune. Aunt Lethh's heart went out to Mr. Linton, and
she said how proud she would be if he would bring his wife
and little ones to see them. He replied that the honour
would be on his side ; but that, with his hostess's permission,
he would wait until his new piece was produced at
the Star Theatre. This temporizing reply was dictated by
his sensitive spirit. He and his wife lived in two rooms, ina
not very distinguished neighbourhood, and he was afraid
of a return visit and its consequent humiliation. When his
play was produced he would be able to remove to better
quarters, and his wife would buy a new dress ; then the
acquaintanceship with this charming family could commence,
and he would be in a position to return their hospitality.


A new play ! " exclaimed Aunt Lethh. '- Do you
appear in it, Mr. Kiss ? "

"Yes," said Kiss. "We hope to see you in the theatre
on the first night. Uncle Lethh has promised to supply each
of you with a big stick, so that you may lead the applause."

But there will be no getting in," said Aunt Lethh.

Linton will reserve a private box for you," said Kiss.

Eager heads turned to the poor author, eager eyes gazed
at him.

"Madam," said Mr. Linton, " I shall be honoured if you
will accept it. If you do not, I feel that my play will meet
with failure."

"You are very good," said Aunt Lethh. "We have
never been to a first night, and have read so much about
them. I am sure your play will be a great success; there
can be no doubt of that."

The thoughts of Fanny and Phoebe instantly flew to the
question of dress. A private box on a first night ! An
event to be always remembered, especially with a play
which was certain to be the talk of the town. It must be
properly honoured.

Mr. Linton has the manuscript of the play with him,"
said Kiss, "and if you have nothing better to occupy your
time to-night I propose to read it to you, in order that you
may form an opinion of it. What do you say ? "

What did they say? — there was a question ! If they had

nothing better to occupy their time ?— what co2//d be better ?
Why, the girls would be ready to throw over even a dance
for such a treat ! They glowed with excitement, and Mr.
Lethbridge, looking round upon the happy faces, was glad
to think that he had signed the bill which Kiss had in his
pocket at that moment, and which tomorrow would be in
the possession of Jeremiah Pamflett.

There's an audience for you," said Kiss to the author,
pointing to the young people.

A good augury," said the proud author. " I feel more
hopeful than I have done for a long time past."

The females of the party presently left in a body to prepare
the drawing-room for the promised reading, and then
it was that Phoebe said to Aunt Lethh :

Oh, Aunt Lethh, I have something to say, and I'm in
that state of excitement that I'd better say it at once,
before I forget it. Next Saturday is my birthday, you know."

"Yes, dear, I know," said Aunt Lethh, giving the young
girl a tender caress ; " and we shall keep it up by a little
dance at home here. I intended to speak to you about it

night before you went to bed."

"You are so good to me, dear aunt," said Phoebe, "that
I don't know how ever I can repay you. It would, I think,
be impossible, whatever it might be in my power to do."

My dear child," said Aunt Lethh, " don't talk of repayment.
You are as one of our own. What we do comes
from our hearts. So you will manage to come here early
on Saturday, and remain till Tuesday or Wednesday."

No, aunt," said Phoebe, with many kisses, " I can't do
that. You must all come to me."

To you, dear ! Where ? "

To Parksides, aunt."

Aunt Lethh looked grave. " Have you your father's permission,
Phoebe?"

Yes, aunt ; he gave it willingly. I don't mean to say
it was his idea; it was mine, and he consented at once
when T asked him. I can only ask you to a poor little tea,"
said Phoebe, her lips slightly trembling, "but I hope you
won't mind. I should so like it ! Uncle Lethh and Fanny
and Bob have never been to Parksides, and though I can't
give them a grand entertainment, T don't think it will make
any difference."

Nothing can make any difference in our love for you,
my dear."

'• Then you 7£'i7/ come, all of you ! "

Yes, dear, we will come, because I see it will be a pleasure
to you, and that will make it a pleasure to us."

Aunt Lethh pressed her hand fondly over the young girl's
head, and just for one moment there were tears in both
their eyes ; but they were instantly dried, and with a smile
and a kiss they busied themselves preparing for the reading
of the pla'. These were soon completed, and the gentlemen
were called in.

Capital 1 capital I " exclaimed Kiss, as he contemplated
the arrangements — the lights on the table, the chairs
ranged round, the place of honour for himself so disposed
that he could either sit or stand. " As good as a green-room,
Linton."

"A great deal better," said the author, thinking of the
various vain interests comprised in a company of actors,
each listening to the lines of the character he was to play,
and calling the piece good or bad according to tha strength
or weakness of that special part of it. He took his manuscript

from his pocket and handed it to Kiss. The actor
gazed with cabin and impressive dignity at his audience.
His movements were few and quiet and stately. He knew
the value of repose. He was in his glory, master of the
situation, and equal to the occasion. He opened the manuscript
and was about to commence, when a diversion
occurred. There was a sound at the door as of some person
outside. Aunt Lethh went to the door, opened it, glided
into the passage, and returned.

It is our servant," she whispered to Kiss. " She has
heard of the reading, and implores to be allowed to be present.
She is a very good girl. May she ? "

*' By all means," said Kiss. "A theatre is a packet of all
sorts. Admit her."

In came 'Amelia Jane, who, with awe on her features, seated
herself at the back of the room, and fixed her eyes upon
Kiss, who was to her a greater than Jove.

Then Kiss commenced in earnest, and quickly held his
audience in thrall. He moved them to tears ; he moved
them to laughter. He so individualized each character,
mare and female, that there was no difficulty in following

the course of the story. It contained tender and comic
episodes, to which he gave full and distinctive weight,
bringing down the house," as he afterwards said, again and
again. There was a song in the play, which he rendered
amidst great applause ; and as the author heard it, and saw
the delighted appreciation of the little company, he hugged
himself, as it were, and whispered inly : '"'It must be a success.
It cannot, cannot fail ! " Although the reading
occupied two hours, there was not the least sign of weariness
; and when it was finished, author and actor were
overwhelmed with congratulations. As for 'IMeiia Jane,
she so laughed, and cried, and clapped her hands, and
stamped her feet, that the happy author, poor as he was,
slyly slipped a shilling into her hand.

"It is," said Uncle Lethh, "the very finest play that was
ever written."

Upon this they were all agreed ; and everyone prophesied
a glorious success. Incidentally, Aunt Lethh remarked,
And how beautifully you sang that song, Mr. Kiss ? "

Did I ? " said Kiss. " Shall I sing you another ? "

The proposal was received with clapping of hands ; and

Kiss sang "Tom Bowline" with such tender effect that he

was called upon for another.

"No," he said ; "ask Linton. He knows a splendid song
in another vein. Sing ' Little Billet,' Linton."

In the joy of his heart Mr. Linton could not refuse, and
he began to sing Thackeray's " astonishing piece of nonsense."
He had a thin quavering voice which suited the
air ; but somehow or other the song was not a success with
this particular audience. Upon 'Amelia Jane the effect was
alarming. When the singer came to the lines,

There's little Bill is young and tender,
We're old and tough, so let's eat he,"

she slowly rose from her chair, with horror depicted on her

face. The singer went on :

' Bill, we're going to kill and eat you.
So undo the collar of your cheniie.'

"When Bill received this inundation
He used his pocket-handkerchief.

' let me say my catechism,

As my poor mammy taught to me ! ' "

Here 'Amelia Jane burst out blubbering so violently that she
had to be conducted from the room. Mr. Linton concluded

the song, however; but th applause which attended his
effort was rather faint, and Kiss found it necessary to explain
that the lines were really only nonsense lines. He
himself soon restored the equilibrium by a sweet rendering
of " Sally in our Alley " ; and then followed other songs, by
Phoebe and Fanny, and an old-fashioned duet by Aunt and
Uncle Lethh. Then there was a little bit of supper, at
which Uncle Lethh proposed the toast of " Success to Mr.
Linton's delightful play," to which the author responded in
feeling terms, and spoke of the happy evening he had spent.
After actor and author were gone, Phoebe and the Lethe
stopped up for an hour talking over the incidents
of this remarkable night ; but Uncle Lethh said nothing of
the bill for three hundred pounds to which he had put his
name.

Curl-paper CONFIDENCES.

When two young women are closeted in their bedchamber
after a pleasant day, and preparing for repose, then is the
time for the interchange of sacred confidences. The events
of the last few hours are touched upon with significant
emphasis, the gentlemen are discussed and judged, and
their personal peculiarities and excellencies commented
upon with approval or otherwise. However quiet, demure,
and comparatively unobservant the young ladies may have
been, depend upon it not the smallest detail of the gentlemen's
dress and manners has escaped their penetrating eyes.
Especially is this the case upon the occasion of the introduction
of a new male acquaintance. Everything appertaining to
him is recalled, from the parting of his hair to the tying of
his shoestrings. It would much astonish him to hear the
pretty girls (all girls are pretty in their spring-time), who

seemed to scarcely have courage to glance at him, speak of
the colour of his eyes, of the cut of his clothes, of the quality
of his moustache, of the size of his hands and feet, and the
shape of his finger-nails. No learned judge in his summing
up was ever so precise and correct, and the beauty or the
despair of it is that these gossiping damsels are not only
judges but juries, from whose verdict there is absolutely no
appeal. Of course such sacred confidences are all the more
interesting when the subjects for dissection are young
unmarried men.

Many such conversations had Phoebe and Fanny held,
and now, according to their wont, they proceeded to discuss
the incidents of the evening, as they made their preparations
for bed,

"I have often thought it a pity," said Phoebe, "that Air.
Kiss is not married."

It is a pity," assented Fanny ; " he is so good-natured
and jolly that he deserves a good wife."

And so clever," remarked Phoebe.

And so good-looking. Phoebe, depend upon it, he has
been crossed in love."

Phoebe sighed, and Fanny echoed the sigh. To these
young hearts the very idea of being crossed in love was
terribly sad.

I do hope Mr. Linton's play will be a success," said
Fanny, after a little pause. " Isn't it wonderful how a
person can think of it all ? "

It is certain to be a success," said Phoebe, taking the
last hair-pin out of her beautiful hair, which fell in waves
over her shoulders.

Fanny gazed at her admiringly, and a charming picture
indeed did the young girl present at that moment.

If I envy you anything, Phoebe," said Fanny, " it is
your hair. No one would think you had half as much."

That's because it's so fine," said Phoebe, with a pleased
smile.

It's as fine as the finest silk," said Fanny, lifting
bunches of it, and giving her cousin a quick affectionate
kiss. "But you mustn't think I really envy you, Phoebe."

I don't. I would change with you if I could."

"No, you wouldn't; no, you wouldn't," cried Fanny,
with a merry laugh, "any more than I would with you."

I am sure your hair is lovely, Fanny."

"It is altogether too coarse," said Fanny, with pretended
pettishness. "Bat, there ! — whoever gets me will have to
make the best of it."

Whoever gets you, Fanny, will have the dearest little
wife in the world, and if he doesn't love every hair in your
head he will be the most ungrateful of men — and I shall
tell him so."

"I wonder who he will be," said Fanny, "and whether
he knows that Fve been growing up for him ? "

It was quite a natural remark for a light-hearted, innocent
girl to make. Why, therefore, should it cause both the
cousins to fall straightway into the mood ruminative — a
mood which entails silence while it lasts.

One thing I am determined upon," said Fanny,
waking up, as it were ; " I won't have him unless he can
waltz."

If he can't," said Phoebe, with an arch smile, " you can
teach him."

"Well, yes; that would be nice." And Fanny, brush in

hand, commenced to hum a favourite waltz, and took a few
VOL. L 12

turns to it, saying, when she was again before the glass,
"What were we speaking of, Phoebe, before my young
man popped in ? "
"About the play."

"We are all going on the first night — think of that!
And in a private box — think of that! The observed of all
observers, as Mr. Kiss would say. I shall feel so excited —
almost as if I were the author — though such a thing is
impossible."

Why impossible, Fanny ? You wrote a story when you
were nine years old."

"Yes, and it commenced, "They were born in India
without any father or mother." Was there anything ever
so absurd ? "

"The success of Mr. Linton's play will mean a great
deal to him. He is not rich, I am afraid."

If he isn't he ought to be," said Fanny, brushing with
great care the tresses she pretended to despise ; " wearing
his brains out in the way he does. He did look anxious,
didn't he, while Mr. Kiss was reading it ? And how
beautifully he read ! I felt like kissing him when he was

going through the love scenes. They do kiss a good deal
on the stage, don't they ? "

Yes," said Phoebe, speaking with difficulty, her mouth
being full of hair-pins ; " but then they don't mean it."

Fanny made a face. *' I shouldn't care for it that way,"
she said, and then she laughed, as though she had said
something funny.

Do you think Bob meant it," asked Phoebe, " when he
said he was going to be an actor ? "

Bob's a riddle," replied Fanny. " I give him up."

He might do worse. It's quite a fashionable profession."

It isn't a profession. Didn't Mr. Kiss tell us that an
actor was a rogue and vagabond by Act of Parliament."

"That was only a joke. Mr. Kiss is a gentleman."

"Of course he is. The Prince of Wales once shook
hands with him, and sig wouldn't shake hands with any one
du a gentleman. Do you wish you were a man, Phoebe?"

No."

"/do !" said Fanny, with a decided nod of her head,

the hair of which was by this time elaborately done up in

curl-papers. Phoebe had also completed her preparations

12—2

for bed. "And now, Phoebe, let us have a chat." She
made this proposition with a feminine obliviousness of
having spoken a single word since she had locked the bedroom
door.

What about, Fanny ? "

Open your mouth and shut your eyes, and see what
God will send you," said Fanny.

Nonsense, Fanny."

'every well — nonsense. Then we won't have a chat.
Only "sand Fanny pursed up her lips and shook her paper-covered
little head wisely.

'' Only what ? "

That you'll be sorry for it— that's all."

"What a tease you are ! There !" Phoebe opened her
mouth and shut her eyes.

Don't move — don't stir ! " cried Fanny, and she took
from her dress an envelope, the edge of which she placed
between Phoebe's teeth. " What is this ? "

*'A piece of paper. I'd sooner have a chocolate
cream."

You would, eh ? Well, here's your chocolate cream —

here's a packet of them — and if I don't tell him when he
comes home, my name isn't Fanny Lethbridge."

This remark caused Phoebe to open her eyes very quickly,
and the colour on her face to come and go. Fanny's right
hand was behind her back.
'* Tell whom, Fanny ? "

' Tell whom, Fanny ? ' " mimicked Fanny. " Now ts
there more than one Frederick Cornwall, Esq., in the
world?"

"There may be — in the London Directory."
"But they don't all write letters from Switzerland to
Camden Town, do they ? "

Have you received another letter from Mr. Cornwall,
Fanny ? "

Yes, I have ; and here it is. It came this morning."
And you kept it to yourself all this time ! "
How could I show it to you before? You had hardly
been in the house two minutes when papa came home with
Mr. Kiss and Mr. Linton. Then there was Bob hanging
about, and you know how he scowls when I speak lovingly
of Fred — I beg his pardon, Mr. Frederick Cornwall. Then

there was helping mother with the tea. Then there was the
reading of the play. Then there were the songs. With all
that excitement, the letter went clean out of my head —
except that I thought you would like it all the better if we
read it together quietly here, where nobody can disturb us."

You are a dear, good girl ! "

Of course I am, and you're another." Whereupon the
cousins, with their arms round each other's necks, fondly
embraced. They were sitting now on the bed very cosily,
side by side. " Phoebe, I have something very horrifying
to tell you."

*' He hasn't met with an accident — he isn't ill ? " exclaimed
Phoebe, turning pale.

"Not a bit of it. He is as well as five feet eleven, aged
six-and-twenty, should be. No, it isn't that ; but it is about
him, though."

"Tell me, Fanny."

:" For a long time I have had my suspicions, but I wouldn't:
venture to breathe them to you. I watched mamma; I.
watched papa. When we were talking of him — it was
always I who brought up his name — I set traps for them,'

and they fell into them unsuspiciously. And then there
was what mamma said, in a pretended off-hand way, this
morning, when she gave me the letter from Fred. It
amounts to this, Phoebe " — she dropped her voice, and said
in a whisper — "they think he comes after me ! "

Why shouldn't he, dear ? "

Why should he, dear ? "

Phoebe stroked her cousin's face fondly, and rested her
head on Fanny's shoulder.

I hope," said Fanny, " that they won't be disappointed
when they find out that he doesn't mean nne, after all. But
I don't think they will be when they know it is you,
darling."

Oh, Fanny ! And he has never said one word to me ! "

What of that, sly puss ? I can speak with my eyes quite
as well as I can with my tongue ; and Fred Cornwall is a
great deal cleverer than I am. I don't positively hate him,
you know."

It would be very wrong of you to do so."

*rand I don't positively love him. I like him, just a
little, in a so-soish way. How it might have been if I didn't

happen to have the dearest, sweetest, prettiest cousin that
a foolish girl could ever boast of, isn't for me to say"' (More
hugs and embraces here.) " I might have fallen a victim to
his lordship's charms ; I don't say I should, but I might."

But, Fanny," said Phoebe, in a low tone, her lips slightly
trembling, " it is foolish, it is wrong, to speak like this."

Now, Phoebe ! " said Fanny, holding up a warning forefinger.


Well, I won't say a word."
'" That's a good, sensible, sweet-hearted cousin,"
■" You are not sorry, Fanny ? "

*' That he is not made for me ? Well, it gives me a pang
"here to say no " — she placed her hand on her heart, and
emitted a comically pathetic sigh — " because, you know, he
is the very loveliest waltzer that ever put his arm round a
girl's waist. You said so yourself. Now confess, Phoebe,
if Fred did — eh ? — you wouldn't run away, would you ? "
Phoebe's silence was the most eloquent answer she could
give to her cousin's question, which, enigmatical as it may
sound in the ears of unsentimental persons, was as clear and
as sweet to the young girls as the sound of wedding bells.

If he doesn't," added Fanny, energetically, " I shall call
him out !"

Would Aunt and Uncle Lethh be very angry ? " murmured
Phoebe.

Why, Phoebe," replied Fanny, reproachfully, "they love
you as much as they love me. I should feel dreadful if I
wasn't sure of that. We are more than cousins, dear ; weare
sisters. Just put your ear to my heart : don't you hear
it beat, * Phoebe, Phoebe ' ? It is a good job for Fred Cornwall
that I am ?w^ a man. He shouldn't have you, if I
were ; no — not if he were fifty Fred Cornwallis. I would
run away with you, just as Young Lochinvar did with — I
forget her name, but it doesn't matter ; I'd do it. Isn't it
strange that elderly people can't see half as well as young ? —
they don't look at what is under their noses ; they are
always looking over their spectacles."

"Aunt and Uncle Lethh don't wear them," said Phoebe
smiling.

"I am speaking — metaphorically. That's not my word ;
it's Fred's — rather a favourite with him, you know. Of
course, if they asked me plainly, I should tell them ; but it

wouldn't do for me to start it — would it ? — till things are
properly settled. They will be overjoyed, Phoebe ; and so
shall I be ; for, don't you see, my dear, when you are disposed
of, there will be a chance for nne, and if a young
gentleman comes to the house there will be no mistake the
next time, because I shall be the only disposable young lady
in view. To that young gentleman, whoever he is, wherever
he may be, I extend an invitation — I say, with a courtesy,
Come ! ' Oh ! but I must tell you, Phoebe, it was so
funny. You remember the last time Fred Cornwall had
tea with us here — before he went on his holiday trip ? "

"Yes."

"/ invited him, and perhaps you may remember that I
wrote to you and told you to be sure and come and spend
two or three days with us. I didn't mention Fred's name in
my letter to you, for you would have kept away." It was
delightful to hear Fanny's laugh at this innocent badinage.
Well, you came — and Fred came — and 1 sent Bob off to
the theatre, with an order. Now what does mamma pride
herself especially upon in the way of jams ? "

Her gooseberry jam."

Yes, and it really is very fine ; I never tasted any half
as good. Well, all the while we were at tea I saw it was you
Fred was feeding on."

Fanny, Fanny ! You are incorrigible ! "
"Am I? Nevertheless, I am right. When he wasn't
looking at you, he was thinking of you ; when he wasn't
thinking of you, he was looking at you. I am quite an
experienced person in love matters. ' Mr. Cornwall,' said
mamma, 'this is home-made gooseberry jam — my own
making. What do you think of it ? ' ' It is a dream,'
replied Fred. He was gazing at you when he passed that
very remarkable opinion upon mamma's gooseberry jam.
Afterward I heard mamma say to papa, ' Did you hear what
Mr. Cornwall said of my gooseberry jam ? He said it was
a dream. Depend upon it, he means something by it.' And
I happening to pop into the room just then, mamma looked
at papa significantly ; and papa looked at mamma significantly
; and then both of them kissed me. I couldn't help
laughing to myself and thinking, ' Mamma will have to try
her gooseberry jam on some other young man.' And now,
Phoebe, we will read Fred's letter."

How is it, Fanny, that Mr. Cornwall has written you so
many letters ? " asked Phoebe.

Jealous ? " inquired Fanny.

No, I have no right to be ; Mr. Cornwall is really
nothing to me."

"You should have ended that sentence with 'yet.' ' Mr.
Cornwall is really nothing to me — yet ! ' Quite right for
you to call him Mr. Cornwall ; I shall call him Fred, to his
face. He will like it— so shall I."

'' How you rattle on, Fanny ! "

*• Yes," said Fanny, composedly ; " papa used to call mea
regular little chatterton."

You have not answered my question, Fanny."

'• Oh, about the letters. How is it Fred has written me
so many ? I have received one, two, three, and this is the
fourth. A famous correspondence, isn't it ? The fact is,"
said Fanny unblushingly, " I asked him to write to me, and
he, being such a polite young fellow, couldn't very well
refuse. I did it quite openly ; mamma was present. ' You
might write me a nice chatty letter or two, Mr. Cornwall,'
said I, ' while you are away." ' I shall be very happy,' said

he, looking at mamma, ' if I may be allowed.' ^/ have no
objection,' said mamma. His asking mamma was almost
like a declaration, wasn't it ? Many a man has been had up
for breach of promise for less than that. And to think of a
lawyer so committing himself ! But I don't believe they area
bit cleverer than other people ; they only pretend to be.
But I shall stipulate,' said Fred, ' that you answer my
letters.' ' Of course I will,' said I, without asking mamma ;
and I have. In the last one I wrote to him I said that you
sent him your dearest love."

I hope you did not say that, Fanny."

If I didn't, I meant it ; so that it amounts to the same
thing. Don't be ungrateful, Phoebe. I inveigled him into
writing to me for your sake, not for mine, though I do wear
his letters next to my heart. He is supposed to be addressing
me in his correspondence, but he is really writing to
you, and he knows that you read every word. Is there one
of his letters without a lot about you in it ? "

He is always thoughtful."

"A model young man ; when he comes home we'll put
him in a glass case. A^d now we must really get to sleep,

or we shall have mamma crying outside in the passage,
Girls, girls, put out the light!' Don't you feel tired,
Phoebe ? "

But the letter, Fanny ! "

Oh, the letter ! Well, if I wasn't almost forgetting it !
I suppose it 7?iusf be read. See, it is addressed from the
Grimsel Hospice. That's where the monks are. What a
splendid monk Fred would make ! He really ought to
become one. What do you think, Phoebe ? "

Then Fanny kissed her cousin half a dozen times, and
proceeded to read Fred Cornwall's letter.

.<

A BIT OF EDELWEISS.

My dear Miss Lethbridge — "

(" That's altogether too formal, isn't it ? " said Fanny,
looking up from the letter. "Why doesn't the stupid
fellow commence with, ' My own dearest Fanny ' ? It
would be very much nicer, wouldn't it ? ")

My dear Miss Lethbridge, — Since my last we have had
glorious weather, and I have been to no end of places,
enjoying myself thoroughly. The only drawback is that I
am without a companion, and that I sometimes feel rather
lonely—"

(" If there ever was a young fellow," said Fanny, " cut
out for a family man, it is Fred")

And that I sometimes feel rather lonely. But we cannot
have everything we wish for in this world, and I shall
soon be home. One satisfaction is that I am making myself
well acquainted with the route I have taken — as

delightful a track as can be imagined — and that it will be a
great pleasure by-and-by to guide some one who has never
been to the beauty-land of Switzerland over the ground I
have traversed — "

("I wonder," said Fanny, " if he has anybody in his eye,
and whether he is thinking of a honeymoon ! ")

'rover the ground I have traversed. I received your
pleasant, chatty letter, telling me all the news, and I cannot
thank you enough for it. You are a model of a correspondent.
So you all went to hear Faust at Covent Garden ; I
can imagine how you enjoyed yourselves, loving music as
you do. When I was at Milan I went to I>a Scala, about
which everybody who hasn't seen it raves. It isn't a patch
on Covent Garden. You say it would have done my
heart good if I had seen how beautiful Miss Farebrother
looked—"

(" I gave him," said Fanny, " a most elaborate description
of our dresses")

To see how beautiful Miss Farebrother looked. You
need scarcely have told me that ; she always looks beautiful
and so do you — "

("/come in," said Fanny, tossing her head, "as a kind
of make-weight. Out of common politeness he could not
have said less")

And so do you. On my way to the Grimsel this afternoon
I stopped at Handed to see the Falls. I am not sure
that I do not admire them more than any I have yet passed.
They are truly grand ; and I wish I could have gathered
some of the wonderful ferns low down the ravine to have
inclosed in this letter. Before I reached the Falls I stopped
at a hut, and there was a girl shelling peas. Quite a young
girl, not more than seventeen, I should say ; but there was
something about her that reminded me of Miss Farebrother.
Nothing like so pretty and sweet ; but her hair was the same
colour, and she was about the same height. She got me
some milk, and I stopped a few minutes to rest, and helped
her to pick her peas — "

(sit has been my opinion," said Fanny, "ever since I
had the pleasure of Fred's acquaintance, that he was little
better than a flirt. He ought to be ashamed of himself.
The least he could do was to keep these things to himself")

"Helped her to pick her peas. We had an agreeable
VOL. I. 13

chat, although she spoke a patois of which I did not
understand a single word. It was very comical — "
(" Very," said Fanny, with a fine touch of sarcasm.)
*' Comical. Then I went on my way rejoicing, and it
was quite dark when I reached the Grimsel. The monks
are very hospitable; they gave me a good dinner and a
good bottle of wine, for which they charge nothing ; only
one is expected to put something in the box for the poor
before he leaves the hospice. I am up here in the mountains,
nearly seven thousand feet above the level of the sea; outside
there is a melancholy, sombre sheet of water called the
Rotten-See, or the Dead Lake. It is said to contain no
living thing, only ghosts. Before I go to bed I shall go
and see them. I am sorry to hear that the firm in which
Bob was employed has failed, and that he is out of a situation.
Hope he will soon get another, and that his career
will shed lustre and renown on the name of Lethbridge.
And I am truly sorry to hear that Miss Farebrother has
sprained her wrist — "

(" Oh, Fanny !" cried Phoebe, " I didn't." " I told him
you did," said Fanny, calmly. " When a man is away.

things must w/ be allowed to languish. The interest muss
be kept up somehow")

Sprained her wrist. She must take the greatest care of
it. Of course you do not allow her to touch the piano
You ask me how she would look with her hair cut short — '^

(" Well !" gasped Phoebe. " It is really too bad of you
Nothing could induce me to have my hair cut off. I have-never
mentioned such a thing." " / mentioned it," said
Fanny, with a little laugh. " Trust me for managing these
affairs. He will be overjoyed when he comes home and
finds your hair just as beautiful as when he left. He will
say something about it, to which you will reply — exposing
me, of course — and then he will pay you no end of compliments")


With her hair cut short. Are you serious ? I know
what a quiz you are, and I suspect you are amusing yourself
at my expense. I can hardly believe that Miss Fare-brother
has any such intention. I never saw such beautiful
hair as hers — "

(" Thank you, sir," said Fanny.)

Such beautiful hair as hers, and she will be doing very

13-2

wrong if she allows herself to be persuaded to adopt what I
consider an odious fashion. You know my opinion about
mannish women ; I would banish them to some distant
island if I had my way, where, as there would be no men
among them, there might be a chance of their recovering
their right senses. When I was in Milan I bought three
lace handkerchiefs : one for Miss Farebrother, one for
yourself, and one for your kind mother. I have something
also for Uncle Lethh and Bob. Please give them all my
very kindest regards, and tell Aunt Lethh I am longing to
have tea with her, and to taste her wonderful gooseberry
jam again."

(Fanny had to stop here to laugh, and then she said :
*' Look, Phoebe, here are a lot of dots. His recollection of
the gooseberry jam overcame him, and he went out to the
Dead Lake to see the ghosts")

'' I threw down my pen, and went out for a stroll. It is
a beautiful night. The Dead Lake does not sustain its
reputation when th stars are shining on it. I tried to
conjure up the ghosts, but they would not come. Instead
of ghosts, all sorts of pleasant memories took shape, for the

chief of which I have to thank your happy home. I
thought of you all, and of the many acts of hospitality for
which I am indebted to you. There is in such scenes as
this a spirit of peace inexpressibly soothing, forming a
reminiscence to be long remembered. The reflection of
the stars in the still waters rendered it impossible to credit
their evil reputation. The lake was a fairy lake, and as
such I shall always think of it. Upon entering the hospice
I heard the monks praying in low voices. Now I must to
bed. Convey my kindest remembrances to Miss Fare-brother,
and receive the same yourself, from
Yours very sincerely,

Frederick Cornwall'*

That is something like a letter," said Fanny. " Fred
is quite a poet. Don't you think so ? "

He writes beautifully," replied Phase.

Lace handkerchiefs," said Fanny. " I wonder whose
will be the prettiest ? Mine, I should say."

You deserve the best."

'' There can be no doubt of that ; but then men are so

ungrateful. I must confess I can't quite get over that girl

at Handed. The idea of his helping her to shell peas ! "

*' It was very kind of him."

'' It was nothing of the sort ; it was a downright shameless
piece of flirtation, and I shall take him to task for it.
I shouldn't so much have minded it if / had been the girl ;
would you ? Oh, how foolish of me ! — there is a postscript
to the letter. Just think of a young woman forgetting a
*P.S.'!"

As if you did not know it was there ! " said Phoebe,
with a tender smile. " What does it say ? "

*well, I never! Just listen. *Pes. — My own dearest


? " cried Phoebe.

No ; it is a mistake of mine. He has left that out.
*Pes. — I have kept this letter by me four days, and it is
time I posted it, or I shall be home before you receive it.
I expect to reach London on Friday morning.' What do
you think of that, Phoebe ? How many to the minute is
your heart going? Friday morning. The day after tomorrow.
I shan't be able to sleep a wink. But there is

something more, Phoebe ; that is not the end of the postscript.
It goes on : ' Enclosed are two small packets, one
with your name outside, one with Miss Farebrother's. I
dare say you have not seen the flower they contain. It is
the edelweiss, a flower which, always worn, brings luck and
good fortune. If you will give me the opportunity, when I
come home, I shall regard it as a great favour if you will
allow me to put a piece of edelweiss in lockets for you
both. With constant regards, Fred C Here is your
packet, Phoebe."

Phoebe opened the paper, and gazed at the white flower,
around which the traveller had arranged a few forget-me-nots,


He calls it," said Fanny, " a flower of luck and
good fortune. / know the right name for it, if he
doesn't." #

*' What is its right name ? " asked Phoebe.

*' It is a love flower — nothing less. I shall put mine
under my pillow, and shall dream of My Own. Not yours
mine ; I am not a poacher. I will tell you what he is
like in the morning. Good-night, dear Phoebe."

MISER FAEEBROTHEB.

Good-night, darling," said Phoebe.

Both the girls put their flowers of love under their
pillows, and had happy dreams.

7^

JEREMIAH PAMFLETT's OPINIONS OF GIRLS.

No more chivalrous knight than Tom Barley ever drew
breath, but notwithstanding his devotion to Phoebe, certain
incontrovertible conclusions had for some time past
forced themselves upon him. A number of men live to
eat ; a much larger number eat to live. Without reference
to his inclinations, Tom Barley's circumstances did not
enable him to do the former, and he found it exceedingly
hard to do the latter. Between him and Mrs. Pamflett
existed an unconquerable antipathy. Being of an independent
order of mind, he was barely civil to her ; and, as she
kept the key of the cupboard, she repaid him in full by
either throwing food to him as she would to a dog, or
giving him none at all. She tolerated him because he was
useful to her in the way of chopping ,wood and doing
various odd jobs of a rough nature; but for this, she would

long ago have had him dismissed. Her son Jeremiah, who
came regularly to Parksides on Miser Farebrother's business,
never failed to put a spoke in Tom's wheel as he termed it ;
but his mother was successful in mollifying him by recounting
the hardships to which Tom had to submit.

He's little better than starved," she said to her son,
*rand he hasn't a rag to his back."

*' Serve him right," growled Jeremiah; "I'd like to see
him hanged ! "

He never forgot the beating he had received in the
village, by the instigation of Tom Barley, on the occasion
of his first visit to Parksides ; and with him, never to
forget was never to forgive. With prudent care of his
bones he steered clear of a collision with Tom, who was
strong enough to tackle half a dozen men such as he ; but
he would gladly have seized an opportunity to do Toman
ill turn. Tom, the least vindictive being that ever wore
rags, had forgotten the incident years ago, and would have
met with civility any advances which Jeremiah might have
made to him ; but as Miser Farebrother's managing clerk
invariably scowled at him when they happened to meet, he

a manner so peculiar that Jeremiah and no other person
understood them. He had played his cards apparently
well. The question to be decided was, where the game
was going to lead him.

On the Friday upon which Fred Cornwall was expected
home, two or three pregnant circumstances took place
affecting our heroine. It was the day previous to her
birthday, on which she had obtained her father's consent
to the visit of the Lethbridges to Parksides. Phoebe had
returned home on Thursday evening, intent upon making
preparations for the visit of her dearest friends. Before
she left Camden Town a little conversation took place
between her and her aunt with respect to this birthday
celebration.

You must not expect much," Phoebe said ; *' I cannot
afford to do as I would wish."

Whatever it is," said Aunt Lethh, " it will be as welcome
as the best. I should say, a cup of tea and some nice thin
bread and butter."

Yes," said poor Phoebe ; •' that will be all, I am
afraid."

"But even that," said Aunt Lethh, "will entail a small expense.
Let me see your purse."

•' No, aunt ; it is all right ; and I must go at once."

There is no hurry, my dear ; you have at least half an
hour to spare. Fanny is going with you to the station, and
she will not be ready for the next twenty minutes. Show
me your purse, Phcebe."-

"Aunt dear — "

My dear child, I insist, or I shall think you do not love
me."

Phoebe's purse was out in a moment ; but she repented
when it was in Aunt Lethh's hand.

"You foolish girl!" said Aunt Lethh, looking into the
purse, and pinching Phoebe's cheek ; " there is next to
nothing in it. Come, now — it is too late, I hope, for
secrets between us — tell me all."

Phoebe, in a low voice, told of the conversation between
her father and herself, and of his giving her a florin for a
birthday present. Aunt Lethh did not look grave as she
listened ; on the contrary, she nodded and smiled brightly.
It was not in her nature to do the slightest thing to aggravate

the gloomy surroundings of the young girl's home.
Her heart was filled with sweet pity for her niece's lot, and
it was for her to shed light on Phoebe's life.

My dear child," she said, " do you look upon me as a
mother ? "

Indeed I do, dear aunt."

Would you wish to vex me ? "

No, aunt ; no."

'' Then you must let me have my way. I know what is
right and what is best. I have a little treasure-box, which
I find very useful often when I am in a wilful mood. It is
sometimes filled with saved pennies, and you have no idea
how they mount up. Don't oppose me, Phoebe, or I will
not kiss you." In proof of which she gave her niece a
number of affectionate kisses at once. " I am going to my
treasure-box now."

She produced it from her desk, and put fifteen shillings
into Phoebe's purse. Then she closed the purse, and pressed
it into the girl's hand.

What can I say, aunt ?" murmured Phoebe, her eyes
filled with tears.

I shall never be able to repay you, dear aunt."
"You are repaying me, Phoebe, every day of your life."
The gratitude which filled Phoebe's heart had something
sacred in it. But, indeed, that happy house was more thana
home to the young girl — it was a sanctuary.

Therefore Phoebe, unloved and neglected as she was in
Parksides, was perfectly happy on the day before her birthday.
She would be able to n:ake her tea-tab'.e quite gay,
and she went to the village and laid out to great advantage
the money her aunt had put in her purse.
Good afternoon. Miss Phoebe."

It was Jeremiah Pamflett who accosted her. He was on
a visit to the miser, with books and papers under his arm.

Good afternoon," said Phoebe, who was also carrying
parcels. She would have hurried on and left him, after these
salutations, but he was too quick for her.

Won't you shake hands with me, Miss Phoebe ? "
I can't ; they are full."

Where there's a will there's a way. You had better
shake hands with me, or your father will be angry when I
tell him."

This threat served him. Phoebe managed to extend her
hand, which he took and held in his for a longer time than
was necessary.

'what a pretty hand you have. Miss Phoebe ? "

She shrank at the compliment, and snatched her hand
from his grasp. He did not take umbrage at this action,
pretending not to notice it.

We are both going home, Miss Phoebe. May I offer
you my arm ? "

'' I can do quite well without, thank you," said Phoebe.

And as well with. I always like to be polite to ladies ;
a gentleman can't do less. Let me carry a parcel or two for
you. I shall tell your father that I assisted you, and he
will be pleased. I do all his business for him, you know,
and he has the greatest confidence in me. I do all I canto
deserve it, I am sure. Thank you. Don't you feel more
comfortable now ? I should if I was a young lady, and a
gentleman had insisted upon helping me."

*' Hallo, you beggar ! How arejv?^ getting on ? Making

your fortune ? "

VOL. I. 14

"No," said Tom Barley ; " are you ?"

Yes," said Jeremiah, exultantly. "/';;/ getting on like
a house on fire. Here's a penny — no, a halfpenny for you."

Tom Barley threw it back "savagely, and it grazed Jeremiah's
forehead.

I could have you up for that," said Jeremiah, edging
away from Tom. " Assault and battery, you know. If
you give me any of your cheek I'll land you at the station-house."


"Give me any of yours," retorted Tom, "and I'll break
every bone in your body ! "

Jeremiah deemed it best to walk away, which he did
rather swiftly, and with decided nervousness. Upon making
his appearance before his mother he worked himself up into
a great passion, and said that Tom Barley had set upon
him with a knife, and had threatened his life. She soothed
him, and advised him to inform Miser Farebrother, which
he promised to do ; and being further mollified by a draught
of ale and a plate of cold meat and pickles, he condescended
to be in a better humour.

"You haven't kissed me, Jeremiah," said Mrs. Pamflett.

Oh, bother ! " he said, brushing her cheek with his lips.
I Hke to kiss girls. I say, mother, how pretty Phoebe's
grown ! "

"Miss Farebrother ? " asked His mother, somewhat
startled.

I said ' Phoebe,' didn't I ? She's about as pretty as they
make 'em. I met her in the village, and she took my arm.
A little stuck-up at first, but I soon brought her to her
senses. Mother, what do you think of me ? "

You are the best son in the world," she replied, readily,
and the cleverest man in England."

Yes, I think I can show them a trick or two. Are you
proud of me, mother ? "

Indeed I am, Jeremiah ? "

"Am I a handsome man, mother? '

"A handsomer couldn't be found, Jeremiah."

Am I good enough for any girl ? "

Indeed you are. She'll be a lucky girl you set your
heart on, my boy."

Oh, come, now ! I don't know so much about hearts.

I know which side I want my bread buttered — eh, mother ? "

14-2

Certainly, Jeremiah."

Well, then, why shouldn't it be ? "

Why shouldn't what be ? " asked Mrs. Pamflett, very
much mystified.

Jeremiah put his forefinger to the side of his nose.
"When I tell you, mother, you'll be as wise as I
am."

But do tell me, Jeremiah," the fond mother pleaded.

Still tongue, wise head," said he. " No ; I'll have a good
think over it first."

He went up to Miser Farebrother with his books and
papers, and when the interview was over he returned to his
mother, who by that time had a hot meal prepared for him.
Before she dished it up he asked her whether she could find
Tom Barley.

"The old skin flint wants to see him," said Jeremiah,
with an upward jerk of his head, in the direction of the room
occupied by Miser Farebrother. " He has something very
particular to say to the beggar, which will open his eyes a
bit. Go and find him, mother, and send him up. Fil
wait. Pleasure first, business afterward."

Tom Barley happened to be within hail, and Mrs. Pam-fleet
sent him up to the miser, and then attended to her
son. She waited till he was well primed, and presumably
therefore in a more complaisant humour, and then she said,
coaxingly, " Won't you tell me, Jeremiah, what you meant
by saying ' Why shouldn't it be ? ' "

"No, I won't, and that's flat," replied Jeremiah; *eat
least, I won't till I've a mind to. But Phoebe is a pretty
girl, isn't she, mother ? "

"I was pretty once," sighed Mrs. Pamflett.

"Shouldn't have thought it. But women go off so. I
don't know that I've ever seen a much prettier girl than
Phoebe."

Mrs. Pamflett opened her eyes wide ; she began to have a
glimmering of her son's meaning.

There's styles," continued Jeremiah. " Some Uke one
style, some like another. For my part, I'm not particular,
so long as a girl's nice looking. It don't matter to me much
whether they're dark or fair, or long or short, so long as
they're that. Mother, you're not a bad sort, and I'll be open
with you."

You're my own boy ! " exclaimed the fond mother
pressing her son's head to her bosom.

I wish you wouldn't ! " cried Jeremiah. " I don't care
to have your buttons grinding into my nose. When you've
recovered yourself, perhaps you'll sit down."

Mrs. Pamflett obeyed meekly, murmuring, " I couldn't
help it, Jeremiah."

Well, do help it. I tell you once for all, do help it. I
don't want to have my nose skinned. I've a good mind now
not to tell you."

Do tell me, Jeremiah," implored Mrs. Pamflett — " do !
And I'll never take you sudden again."

Very well, then ; but mind you keep your word. You're
always at it, hugging and pressing me as if I was a bit of
wood ! Yes ; I say there's styles, and what I say on the top
of that is that I ain't particular so long as everything else is
Oak."

"What's O.K.?" inquired Mrs. Pamflett, anxiously.

All correct, of course. You don't know much, and
that's a fact. Trust me for seeing to things being right.
You would have to get up very early in the morning to get

ahead of fine. Now don't exasperate me by asking too many
questions. Everything in time, so don't you be in a hurry.
A spider ain't, when he's got a bluebottle in his web. Take
a lesson from him."

I will, Jeremiah," said Mrs. Pamflett, humbly ; " but
who's the bluebottle, and who's the spider ? "

There you are, asking questions again. You rile a
fellow, that's what you do. Mother, what do you think of
Phoebe ? "

I don't think much of her," replied Mrs. Pamflett,
shortly. She would not have answered so candidly had she
not teen taken off her guard. Her opinion of Phoebe, however,
did not seem to disturb Jeremiah, who said :

Women never hit it, somehow. Is she proud ? "

"Yes."

I thought she was ; but if any man can bring her
to book, I can. Does she sauce you ? "

She seldom speaks to me."

Women are the crookedest creatures going ; they never
answer straight. Does she sauce you ? "

"No."

Has she got a sweetheart ? "

Not that I know of."

Does she receive letters ? "

Only from her relations in Camden Town."

Mr. and Mrs. Lethbridge," said Jeremiah, chuckling,
and feeling his pocket, in which an acceptance for three
hundred pounds with Mr. Lethbridge's name to it was safely
secured. " I know something of then. Do you think she's
in love ? "

''No."

It wouldn't matter if she was." And here Jeremiah
paused, and gave himself up to thought, with his fingers
stretched across his brows. Mrs. Pamflett observed him
earnestly, but did not disturb him. " Mother, would
you like to see me ride in my carriage — my own
carriage ? "

I should be the proudest woman in England, Jeremiah
my own Jeremiah ! "

*' Stow that ! " cried Jeremiah, holding her off. " No
more buttons ! You'd like to see me ride, in my carriage,
would you ? There are more unlikely things. You said

"A million times too good, my boy," said Mrs. Pamfle't,
enthusiastically.

That's a blessing. She ought to be grateful. When I
met her in the village she had a lot of parcels. Does she
go shopping for you ? "

Not she. Perhaps she's been buying some things
for her birthday. She's going to give her aunt and uncle
tea here."

"Oho! And when is Phoebe's birthday, mother?"

"To-morrow."

Jeremiah grinned, his eyes glittered. " I'm in luck's
way," he said. " And now, mother, give me a glass of brandy
and water, and I'll cut my lucky."

"When shall I see you again, Jeremiah?" she asked,
after mixing the beverage, which he tossed off with a relish.

Sooner than you expect. Oh, well, I don't mind telling
you. I'm coming here tomorrow to wish Phoebe many
happy returns. Ta-ta ! Well, if you must kiss me — there
you are, hugging me again ! Why can't you do it gently ? "

TOM BARLEY HAS A SCENE WITH THE MISER.

Meanwhile Miser Farebrother and Tom Barley were
having it out " upstairs in the miser's room. Jeremiah
Pamflett had put a very strong case before Miser Fare-brother.
He said that every time he came down to Park-sides,
Tom Barley laid wait for him and threatened to take
his life.

It's no fault of mine," said Jeremiah, " that I'm not as
strong as that hulking vagabond, who makes any amount of
money by robbing you. If you like to be robbed, I've nothing
to say to it. Nobody loses anything but yourself. But
I can't be coming regularly down here in fear of my life.
You couldn't expect me to."

In short, Jeremiah indirectly gave Miser Farebrother to
understand that if he retained Tom Barley in his employ
he would have to come more often to London to look

He drew a knife upon me," said Jeremiah, " as I was
coming here, because he saw me escorting Miss Farebrother
home. She was in the village making purchases, and I
thought it my duty to protect her."

Quite right, quite right," said Miser Farebrother. " She
ought to be much obliged to you."

She was," said Jeremiah.

Making purchases, eh ? " exclaimed Miser Farebrother.
What was she purchasing — eh ? You don't know ? What's
that you say ? Oh, Tom Barley ! I'll soon settle with him.
They all rob me — everybody, everybody ! You are the only
one I can trust — the only one, the only one ! "

*' There's nothing I wouldn't do for you," said Jeremiah,
fervently. " I'd work my fingers off — "

*' There, there ! " said Miser Farebrother, fretfully.
*' Don't make protestations. I hate them. It is your
interest to do your duty. I pay you well for
it."

You do ; and I am grateful," said Jeremiah, feeling in
his heart as if he would like to strangle his master. *' But
you don't care for that sort of thing, and I'll not say anything
more."

"No; don't, don't!" groaned the miser. "Go; and
send Tom Barley up to me."

Jeremiah nodded, and went out of the room. Miser
Farebrother's eyes followed him; and when the door was
closed, he groaned :

"He's as bad as the rest, I believe; but I've not been
able to find him out. Is he cunning and cleverer than
I am ? Curse my bones ! Why can't I buy a new set ?
There isn't an honest man in the whole world. If Phoebe
had been a boy instead of a girl, I might have had a little
peace of mind ; but as it is, I'm robbed right and left —

Yes, it's me," said Tom. " What do you want of
me ? "

*' Speak respectfully," screamed the miser.

"I am, though I've got no particular call to," said Tom.
Truth to tell he was not in an amiable temper, what with
his hunger, and his rags, and his meeting with Jeremiah.
You sent for me. What do you want ? And mind this
I don't stir hand or foot till I get something to
eat."

Miser Farebrother became suddenly quite cool. It was
generally the case when an antagonist he had in his power
was before him.

"Something to eat, eh? You scoundrel! you have the
stomach of an ostrich."

I wish I had," said Tom ; "then I could fill it with
stones and rusty nails. As it is, I can't get those things
down. I give you warning — "

"What!" cried Miser Farebrother; "you give me
warning ? "

"Yes ; not to call hard names, or mayhap Til throw them
back at you."

Do you dare to speak to me in that manner," said the
miser, " after all I've done for you ? "

Tom Barley looked ruefully at his rags of clothes, and
said, with unconscious humour, " Yes, you have done forme
; there's no mistake about that. I remember you promised
to make my fortune. I look as if it was made ! "

"And whose fault is it," said Miser Farebrother, "that
you're a pauper — whose fault but your own ? That is, if
what you say is true. But it isn't. You've got money
rolled up in bundles somewhere — my money, that you've
robbed me of."

Tom Barley burst out laughing. " Who has told you
that cock-and-bull ? " he asked. " I'd like to give him half
to prove it. I'm thinking of buying Buckingham Palace, I
am. I've got money enough to pay for it rolled up in
bundles."

"Hold your tongue," said the miser, "and listen tome."


Go ahead," said Tom Barley.

"When I first took you into my service," the miser commenced
—

"At twopence a week," interposed Tom. " The Bank of
England's breaking down with my savings."

"It was my intention to make a man of you," continued
the miser ; and again Tom Barley interrupted him.

The Lord Almighty did that while you was thinking
of it."

"But," proceeded the miser, "I soon found out that I
had taken a hopeless case in hand ; I soon discovered that
a clodhopper you where and a clodhopper you would remain,
till you took your place in the workhouse as a regular.
Then I lost interest in you, and let you go your way."

In a minute or two," said Tom Barley, " I've got a
couple of words to say to you that I don't go out of this
room without saying."

I allowed you to remain on my estate, and gave you
your meals, and paid you so much a ^veek."

Why not say so little, instead of so much ?" asked Tom,
who, driven by necessity and despair, was coming out in a
new light.

"The work you did I could have had done for a
song — "

The Lord forbid," said Tom, " that I should have heard
you sing it ! It would have given me the gripes. I've got
'em now."

"But I kept you on out of charity, and I told you that
you were at liberty to earn money elsewhere whenever you
could pick up an odd job."

My experience is," he said, " that there's about five
million evens to one odd."

The result of my kindness and liberality is that you areas
you are, an idle, skulking, thieving vagabond."

Have you done ? " asked Tom.

Not yet. I have had a serious complaint made against
you, and I intend to take notice of it in a practical way.
You have threatened the life of my clerk, Mr. Jeremiah
Pamflett, a most estimable young man, in whom I place
implicit confidence. You lie in ambush for him, and he
goes in terror of you."

"That's the best thing I've heard yet," said Tom Barley,'
rubbing his hands gleefully.

"Such a state of things is no longer to be endured, and I

shall put an end to it. Tom Barley, I discharge you from

my service."

Is that all ? "

"That is all. I wash my hands of you. As to your

conduct toward my clerk, I warn you to be very careful. A

watch will be set upon you, and if you repeat your threats

you will have to put up with the consequences."

I'll do that ; it's a matter between this Jeremiah of

yours and me. As to threatening his life, that I've never

done. A long while ago I got him thrashed — I didn't do it

myself; I was too big — for insulting your daughter, and if

ever he insults her again, and I get to know it, he'll be

thrashed again. As to being turned from your service, I'll

put up with it. Whatever I do I can't be worse off than I

am. But you said something else. You said I've got

money rolled up in bundles somewhere, and that I've

robbed you of it. Now out with it like a man ; you did

say it ! "

"Yes, I did," snarled Miser Farebrother.

What I've got to say to that is, that you're a liar ! I
VOL. I. 15

ain't given to hard words, but when I'm drove to it I use
'em ; and my answer to your charge is, you're a liar !
Straight from the shoulder, master : you're a liar ! "

Upon that Tom marched out of the room, with erect
head and angry eye ; but when he got half-way down the
staircase his look softened and his head drooped, for Phoebe
stood before him. While he was in the presence of Miser
Farebrother, asserting his manhood, he had not thought of
her. She had heard the angry voices of her father and
Tom, and she had waited to learn the cause. She beckoned
Tom to follow her, and they were presently in the little
room which she could call her own.

Oh, Tom," she said, " what is it ? "

*' Well, miss," he replied, " I hardly like to say, but you'd
get to know it if I didn't tell you. Your father and me's
had a difference, all along of that clerk of his, Jeremiah,
Mrs. Pamflett's white-livered son. He's been telling your
father stories about me which ain't true. Don't believe 'em
when you hear 'em — don't ! "

I won't, Tom."

"Thank you, miss. I'm going to leave Parksides, miss."

"Your father's discharged me. If he hadn't, I don't
know what I should have done, because — look at me, miss
I ain't fit to be seen."

Oh, Tom, I am so sorry ! How I shall miss you ! "
I feel that bad over it, because of you, that I can't express.
But it ain't my fault."

I am sure it is not, Tom. Have you thought what you
shall do ? "

Well, miss, I'm going to London, to be a policeman, if
they'll take me on. It ain't my idea : it's somebody else's.
And perhaps if I get to be a policeman, I'll be put on somewhere
near Camden Town. I don't ask for anything better,
miss ; for then I shall be near where you will be sometimes,
and I can look after you. Don't speak to me, miss, don't
look at me, for I feel like breaking down. Good-bye, Miss
Phoebe, good-bye, and God bless you ! "
And, choking with tears, the honest fellow rushed away.

^-^^s^ •

15-2

FANNY CONFIDES A SECRET TO HER MOTHER.

The visit of the Lethbridges to Parksides was an event of
great importance. Neither Uncle Lethh, Fanny nor Bob
had ever been there, and it was five or six years since Aunt
Lethh had set foot in it. Of all the family she was the only
one who would have been able to recognize Miser Fare-brother,
and to say, " That is Phoebe's father." Nearly
twenty years had elapsed since Uncle Lethh had seen the
miser, and he was rather doubtful as to how he would be
received, their last meeting not having been a pleasant one.
Fanny was very curious and very nervous ; Phoebe's father
was a solemn mysterious personage, a being apart, whose
acquaintance she was now for the first time to make. What
kind of looking gentleman was he ? Their albums contained
the portraits of all their friends and relations, near
and distant, some from infancy upward ; but the portrait of

What shall we call him ? " said Fanny to Bob. " Of
course he is our uncle, and we ought to call him Uncle
Farebrother."

Bob professed not to care — in which he was not ingenuous.
"All that I've heard about him," he said, "is
that he is known as Miser Farebrother."

It won't do to call him that," said Fanny ; " he would
be offended, and might fly out at us. Ought I to kiss
him ? "

Wait till you're asked," replied Bob. *' He must be
immensely rich."

More shame for him," said Fanny indignantly, " to

keep Phoebe as short as he does. What does he do withall

his money ? "

*' Wraps it up in old stockings, buries it, hides it in the
chimneys, carries it in bags round his waist, stuffs his
mattress with it. There was a miser found dead in a
garret in Lambeth the other day, and though there wasn't
a crust of bread in the room, they found four thousand
pounds hidden away in teapots, mouse-traps, nightcaps, old
boots and all sorts of rum places. He used to go about
begging, and would snatch a bone from a dog."

Miserable wretch ! " cried Fanny. " I hope Uncle
Farebrother isn't like that."

Not exactly, I should say ; but quite bad enough. He
hasn't treated us very handsomely."

"Well, never mind," said Fanny. "We don't go to see
him j we are going for Phoebe's sake."

Their anticipations of their uncle were not very glowing ;
but as they had been warned by their mother, what passed
between them respecting him was regarded as confidential.
To Phoebe they said not a word.

On the Saturday morning Mr. Lethbridge, on his way to

somewhere. There was a sumptuous dinner provided fur
them : wonderful dishes, the best of wine. The day-dreamer
made a speech, in which he dilated upon the
happiness which Miser Farebrother had shed upon them, and
how it was all the greater because of the delightful surprise
which Phoebe's father had been for so many years preparing
for them. Mr. Lethbridge's mental speeches were always
marvels of oratory — not a word out of place, the turns most
felicitous — and this speech at Miser Farebrother's dinner-table
was even happier than usual. Then Miser Fare-brother
responded, and came out in a light so unexpected
and agreeable that the place rang with cheers, and the music
struck up " For he's a jolly good fellow," in which they all
joined at the top of their voices. When the feast was ended
Miser Farebrother asked him to step into his private room,
and there, over a bottle of rare old port, he produced his will,
which he read to the dreamer, and in which every member of
the dreamer's family was handsomely provided for. He
would not listen to the dreamer's expressions of gratitude.
Not a word : not a word," he said. " It has been a whim
of mine to allow you to suppose I was mean and miserly and

While he was at his desk a conversation took place at
home between Fanny and her mother respecting Fred
Cornwall. He had called upon the Lethbridges on the
previous evening, and although he was full of agreeable

chat, he seemed disappointed at not finding Phoebe at her
aunt's house. As he had said in his last letter to Fanny,
he had brought presents home for all of them, and when
Fanny twitted him privately with having nothing for
Phoebe, he answered,

Oh, yes, I have ; but I must give them to her personally."


To-morrow will be a capital time to give her a present,"
said Fanny.

Is she coming here tomorrow ? " asked Fred, eagerly.

No," replied Fanny ; "we are all going to her at Park-sides.
It is her birthday."

She did not leave me an invitation, I suppose ? " said
Fred.

No," said Fanny ; " but if I were a young gentleman
I shouldn't wait for one."

Wouldn't you ? "

No. I should make my way to Parksides, and take
my presents with me, and give her a delightful surprise."

Do you really think I might venture ? "

"shouldn't think twice about it," said Fanny, vivaciously.

*but you mustn't come with us, because, of course, we
don't know anything about it. We shall be quite astonished
when you make your appearance with a flourish of
trumpets."

There and then the affectionate conspiracy was discussed
and planned, and Fred said that Fanny was the dearest
girl living, which Fanny disputed, asking how could she be
when Phoebe stopped the way.

It was about noon on the Saturday that Fanny said to
her mother, " I am going to let you into a secret."

Aunt Lethh's thoughts immediately travelled to Fred
Cornwall. She had observed the whispered conference
which had taken place on the previous night between the
young man and her daughter, with their heads very close
together, and she had formed her own conclusions ; and
now the secret was about to be revealed. Fred had been
making serious love to Fanny ; there could not be a doubt
that this was Fanny's secret.

"Yes, my dear," said Mrs. Lethbridge, tenderly.

It is about Mr. Cornwall," said Fanny.

"Yes, Fanny."

Despite her joy, a pang went right through her heart ; it
is always so with affectionate parents when the bolt really
falls, and the contemplation of a beloved daughter leaving
the happy home becomes a certainty.

And Phoebe," said Fanny.

Mrs. Lethbridge's face underwent a change. In matters
of the heart a woman's instincts are lightning-tipped.

I have an idea," said Fanny, " that they are fond of
each other."

Mrs. Lethbridge looked apprehensively at her daughter,
but she saw in Fanny's face no despondency, no disappointment.
On the contrary, it was radiant. The fond mother
smiled.

Only an idea, Fanny ? " she asked.

Only an idea, mother," said Fanny. " There has been
nothing really serious said, but I am certain I am not mistaken.
Now confess, mother; you thought I was the
magnet ? "

*' Well, my dear, I did have a suspicion, and it has been
proved to be wrong."

You are not sorry, mother ? "

No, my dear, so long as you are happy. That is my
only care."

I am perfectly happy, and I mean to die an old
maid. Dear Phoebe ! I do hope everything will turn outright."


We all hope so, Fanny. I suppose I must not say
anything to her ? "

"Not for worlds, mother. You must wait till she speaks
to you."

I am not so sure, Fanny. She has no mother to confide
in, and to whom she can unreservedly open her heart.
I must think over it, for her sake."

If you thought Mr. Cornwall was good enough for me,"
said Fanny, " he is good enough for Phoebe."
" My dear, the cases are different."

How different ? "

Mr. Cornwall knows her position. If it had been you
instead of Phoebe, he would not have expected money
with you. When people have arrived at the time of life
which your father and I have reached, and have children
whom they love as we love ours, they cannot help feeling a

little disturbed at their want of fortune. Young men nowadays
look out for money ; it is not as it used to be."

It is with me, mother. I am an old fashioned girl, and
if a young man casts sleeps' eyes at me it will be a satisfaction
to know that it isn't my dowry that attracts him.
And for my part, mother, I mean to marry for love — if I
ever do marry."

"I am glad to hear you say so, my dear; they are the
happiest marriages. Our life has been a happy one : never
for one moment have I regretted marrying your father."

I should think not, mother ! Who is there in the
world to compare with him ? "

There is not one, my dear. It would be difficult indeed
to meet with a man so good, so unselfish, so devoted. But
we were speaking of Phoebe. The cases are different, I said.
Mr. Cornwall would have had no difficulty in obtaining our
consent, had it been you instead of Phoebe. Have you
forgotten that Phoebe has a father ? "

I did not think of him," said Fanny, a Httle depressed
by the allusion. "But what objection could he have to
Mr. Cornwall ? "

That is not for us to say. Phoebe's father is a peculiar
man, and he may have views for Phoebe of which we are
ignorant, Mr. Cornwall's suit will rest with him, not with
us."

Mr. Cornwall is a gentleman."

"Undoubtedly; and, so far as I can judge, calculated
to make a girl happy. But that is not the question."

*what is the question, mother?"

Money. Fanny, what I am about to say must not pass
out of this room."

Very well, mother."

Phoebe's father may say to Mr. Cornwall : ' You ask me
for my daughter's hand. How much money have you got ? ' "

What a coarse way of putting it ! " exclaimed Fanny
disdainfully.

I am aware of it, but for Phoebe's sake I am trying to
think it out in the way it will happen. I have never inquired
into Mr. Cornwall's circumstances ; but they are not very
flourishing at present, are they ? "

I don't think they are."

I know they are not. He and your father have had

conversations which lead me to the belief that he earns justa
sufficient income to keep himself comfortably."

He is very clever in his profession ; and there is the
future."

That is one of the things I am thinking of," said Mrs.
Lethbridge, gravely : " the future. ' How much money
have you got?' Phoebe's father will ask him; and when
the young man answers honestly — as Mr. Cornwall is sure
to do — Phoebe's father will say, ' As you have no money of
your own, you come after my daughter's.' I am very much
afraid of it, Fanny. I pray that there is no trouble in store
for her."

"Mother, you frighten me." Fanny experienced at
that moment a feeling of terror at the conspiracy into
which she and Fred Cornwall had entered, which was to
result in Fred's unexpected appearance at Parksides with
birthday presents for Phoebe. She did not dare to refer toit,
so she kept the secret locked in her breast.

I do not wish to frighten you, my dear," said Mrs.
Lethbridge, " and perhaps, after all, I am only raising bugbears.
Let us hope for the best."

We will," said Fanny, brightening up instantly. She was
like an April day; the least glimpse of sunshine brought
gladness to her. " And now, mother, must one word."

"Well, my dear?"

If Mr. Cornwall proposes to Phoebe — which he will —
and if she accepts him — which she will — and if he speaks
to Phoebe's father, and Phoebe's father will not hear of it,
what is to be done ? "

My dear child, you are putting a riddle to me."

What I want to know is," said Fanny, very determinedly,
"whether, if Phoebe's father refuses his consent,
Phoebe ought to marry without it." She felt that she had
achieved a triumph in putting it so clearly.

Would you marry without ours ? " asked Mrs. Lethbridge.


Mother, be logical, as Fred Cornwall says. Did you
not say yourself that the cases are different ? "

Yes, I did," replied the perplexed mother.

Well, there it is, then," said Fanny ; and as her mother

did not speak, she relentlessly opened another broadside.

*' If an honourable gentleman really and truly loves a young
VOL. 1. IG

lady, and if a young lady really and truly loves him in return,
and if they are worthy of each other, and if there is a fair
prospect of his getting along in the world in an honourable
profession, and of their being truly happy together, ought
they not to marry in spite of a miserly hunks of a father ? "

My dear," said Mrs. Lethbridge, " let us drop the
subject, and hope for the best."

Thank you, mother. IVe know that Phoebe is not
happy at home."

"It is so, unfortunately."
• "And ive know that our home is hers if she should ever
be without one."

Yes, my dear."

"Then, my own dearest mother," said Fanny, putting her
arms round the good mother's neck and showering kisses
upon her, " there is nothing more to be said."

MRS. PAMFLETT DEVELOPS A SUDDEN AFFECTION FOR
Phoebe.

Uncle Lethh's day-dream was not realized — but then his

day-dreams never were. When he and his. family, travelling

third-class, reached the station for Parksides, there was no

Miser Farebrother to receive them with open arms and a

carriage. Phoebe was there, and that was quite as good —

almost more than they expected. She was a favourite with

the station-master and ticket-takers, who always admitted

her to the platform, whether the gates were closed or not ;

and the Lethbridges, looking out of the window, saw her

waving her handkerchief to them, and running along the

platform, the moment they were in sight. Then there was

such a kissing and hugging as made the hearts of the unenvious

ones glad to witness, and the mouths of the envious

ones to water, wishing they had a free ticket to participate

in an entertainment so delightful.

16—2

It is good of you to come and meet us," said Fanny.
I was wondering all the way whether you would."

I did not know whether I should be able," said Phoebe,
in a flutter of excitement ; "but Mrs. Pamfiett has been very
kind. I hardly liked to ask her to help me with the tea ;
but she came and offered of her own accord, and said
perhaps I would like to go and meet my friends. So here
I am."

Mr. Lethbridge opened his ears upon mention of Mrs.
Pamfiett, and he was glad to hear so good an account of
her. An act of thoughtfulness and good-nature from her
was a guarantee for her son, who had discounted his acceptance
for three hundred pounds for the dramatic author and
Kiss.

They had all brought modest birthday presents for Phoebe,
which they handed to her at once, with flowers and kisses
and the best of affectionate wishes. Bob was in the seventh
heaven in consequence of being allowed a share in the
kissing business.

I did not have time to write to you last night," whispered
Fanny to Phoebe. " He has come home, and had

They walked to Parksides, expressing pleasure at everything
— at the weather, at the scenery, at the pretty village,
at the children, at the cottages, at the church — all of which,
it seemed to the little party, had put on a holiday garb in
honour of Phoebe. The flowers were brighter, the sunlight
clearer, the birds sang more sweetly, as they walked and
talked, each of the Lethbridges claiming a share in Phase's
society, and each obtaining it. Now with Bob, now with
Fanny, now with Aunt Lethh, now with Uncle — she ran from
one to another, chatting gaily, and bursting out into snatches
of song. It was her day, her very own — a day of sunshine
without and within.

Mrs. Pamflett's amiability needs a word of explanation.
The conversation she had had with her son Jeremiah had
opened her eyes as to his intentions ; and both to please
him and to win Phoebe's favour she had offered to assist the
young girl. But for Jeremiah's sake she would not have
dreamt of such a thing. She had lain awake half the night
thinking of the conversation, and she had come to the conclusion

that it would be a fine match for Jeremiah. Much
as she had disliked Phoebe, she admired her son for his ambition.
Miser Farebrother's " aching of bones " was growing
worse every week, every day ; suffering as he did, it would
soon be impossible for him to give any personal attention
to his business in London. No one understood it, no one
could attend to it, but Jeremiah. What, then, was more
feasible than Jeremiah's scheme of becoming Miser Fare-brother's
son-in-law ? " To think," she mused in the night,
"that it never entered my mind! But Jeremiah's got a
head on him. He will be a millionaire, and I shall be a
lady ! " The idea of a repulse — that Phoebe would not
think Jeremiah good enough for her — never occurred to Mrs.
Pamflett ; if it had, she would have rejected it with scorn.
What ! her son, her bright boy — handsome, shrewd, and
clever — not good enough for the best lady in the land ! A
little chit like Phoebe might consider herself lucky that such
a man as Jeremiah should condescend to her. *' I can't, for
the life of me, see," she mused, " why Jeremiah should be
so taken with her; but there's no accounting for a man's
fancies. And then he said he wasn't particular. Ah ! Jere-

the memories which sanctified it being deader than the
deadest ghost that superstition could conjure up, it certainly
could not be considered a suitable gift for Phoebe. Its fatal
meaning for her lay in the future.

When Mrs. Pamflett said to Phoebe that perhaps she
would like to go and meet her friends at the railway station,
she thought it likely that Jeremiah would be in the train.
He had not told her by which train he was coming, and her
desire was to give him an opportunity of walking home with
Phoebe. She did not betray herself when she saw Phoebe
return in the company of the Lethbridges and without
Jeremiah. She possessed a gift invaluable to sly, secretive
natures — the gift of absolute self-repression. Phoebe introduced
Mrs. Pamflett to her friends. Aunt Lethh was already
acquainted with her, and was astonished at the graciousness
and amiability of the house-keeper, her previous experience
of her having been quite the reverse. Uncle Lethh nodded
and said, " How d'ye do ? " but Fanny was rather
stiff — " uppish," as Mrs. Pamflett subsequently told her
son.

Tea will not be ready for half an hour or so," said Mrs.

0,"\vas Phoebe's delighted rejoinder, "how kind of you!"

I want you to love me'' said Mrs. Pamflett. " If you
find that my only wish is to please you, perhaps you will."

Indeed I will," said Phoebe ; and thought, " Perhaps
my father will love me too."

She asked the Lethbridges to wait a moment or two, and
she went to her father's room.

Aunt and uncle are here, and my cousins."

What has that to do with me ? " he asked.

May they come up and see you, father ? "

No," he replied ; " I can't be bothered. They wish to
see me as little as I wish to see them."

While this last question was being asked and answered,
Mrs. Pamflett entered the room.

'' I think you should see them, sir," she said.

"Why? "he asked.

As a mark of politeness," said Mrs. Pamflett. " Mr.
Lethbridge and your nephew and niece have never been
here before, and they might think it. rude of you."

Do I care if they do ? " he snarled.

It is not that," she answered, chilly, " but it is Miss
Phoebe's birthday."

"Mrs. Pamflett is very kind," said Phoebe, nervously,
but if you don't wish, father — "

'' I wish to do what is right," he said, very coolly, as was
his habit when he was opposed.

We all know that," said Mrs. Pamflett, in a voice as
composed as his own. " You always do what is right. Mr.
and Mrs. Lethbridge and their children are going to have
tea with Miss Phoebe in honour of her birthday, and I have
been getting it ready, and am going to wait on them. You
ought to join them. I have set a chair for you at the head
of the table."

*' Oh, father, if you would ! " implored Phoebe, clasping
her hands.

You wish it ? " he asked of her, but not removing his
eyes from Mrs. Pamflett's face.

Yes, father. If you would only be so good ! "

Kndyou wish it ? " he asked of Mrs. Pamflett.

For Miss Phoebe's sake I do," replied Mrs.

Not for your own ? "

*' I have told you what I think." '

"Let it be so," said Miser Farebrother. "Phoebe, I will
take tea with you and your friends."

Oh, papa ! " In her gratitude the affectionate girl —
only too ready to give love for love — threw her arms round
her father's neck and kissed him.

There ! there ! " he said, pushing her away ; " go down
to your friends. You can stop, Mrs. Pamflett."

Phoebe ran down-stairs to convey the good news to the
Lethbridges, and Mrs. Pamflett and the miser were left
together.

Now, Mrs. Pamflett," he said abruptly, " what is all this
about?"

"I do not understand you," was her reply.

You understand me thoroughly," he said. " I can't see
through a millstone, but I can see through you."

Then why do you ask me to explain anything?" she
retorted,

You have lived here sixteen years," he said, "and you

think you know me as well as I am sure I know you.
Because I have never interfered with you, because I have
allowed you to do as you like — "

She interrupted him here. " Have I ever wasted a penny
of your money ? "

To my knowledge, no. If you had, you would have
heard of it."

Yes, that is very certain. Every farthing spent in this
house has been accounted for in the book which you look
over every week. You would find it hard to get anybody
in my place."

*' Oh, that is it ! You threaten to leave me ! "

You are not only mistaken, you know you are stating
an untruth. Yes, an untruth." The words denoted indignation,
but it was not expressed in her voice or
manner.

Is that a proper way to speak to me ? " he cried.

I pass no opinion," was her unimpassioned reply. " If
you are tired of me, or if I do not please you, you can send
me away."

You would go ? "

"I should be bound to go. What else could I do ? If
I refused, you could call in the police."

*' You are bent upon exasperating me, I see. You know
I could not do without you."

I know it."

"And that is why you are impudent to me."

You have never found me so."

Because I am bound to you hand and foot, because
you know my ways, having grown into them, because I
depend upon you and trust you, because I am weak and ill
and dependent, you think you can twist me about as you
like. You shall find that you are mistaken."

Do you wish me to leave Parksides to-night ? I will
go and get ready."

He glared at her. " Well, why don't you go ? "
'' I am waiting for orders. Give them, and I will obey
you — as I have obeyed you in everything else."

"You have no more wish to leave me," he said,
laughing scornfully, "than I have that you should. You
could no more do without me than I could do without
you."

*' There may be a balance," she said, " and it may be to
my credit. You seem to be angry because I have made an
endeavour to please your daughter."

*' Have you ever endeavoured, to please, her before today
? " he asked slyly.

Have you," she retorted, " ever taken the trouble to
ascertain ? " •

He paused awhile before he spoke. " Having been imprisoned
up here, out of sight of things, with no eyes for
anything beyond this room, you may think I haven't known
what is going on in my house. You are mistaken — egregiously
mistaken — as mistaken as your son Jeremiah, who
perhaps has an idea that I do not know when I am absent
what is going on in my office in London."

Do you wish him to leave as well as me?" said Mrs. Pam-fleet.
The conspicuous and amazing feature of her speech
was that she made these propositions as though they did not
in the slightest degree affect her, or any person in whom
she was interested. "With his talents for business, he will
not have the least difficulty in obtaining a position of trust
elsewhere."

"I have no design," said Mrs. Pamflett, "except your;
interests ; and if it happens that your interests and ours—*''
And ours ! " he cried.

And ours," she repeated. " If it happens that our interests
are identical, it should rather please than anger you.
You say that you are bound hand and foot to me. That
is a compliment, and I am obliged to you ; but supposing
it to be true, I am as much bound hand and foot to you,
and so is my son Jeremiah. It may be in your power to so
chain him to you that he would become an absolute slave
to your interests."

Interests again ! " he exclaimed, impatiently. " Always
interests — nothing but interests."

"Well," said Mrs. Pamflett, "what do we live for? What
do you live for ? "

This was a home thrust indeed, and Miser Farebrother
accepted it in good part. Despite the outward aspect of
this singular conversation, it was not entirely disagreeable
to him. He appreciated the services of Mrs. Pamflett and

her son ; he knew that he could not replace them ; he had

not left it to the present hour to reckon up their monetary

value.

** To come back to Phoebe," he said ; " what is all this
about ? No beating about the bush — plain speaking."

"I love her," said Mrs. Pamflett, "as a daughter."

And Jeremiah is your only son ? "

"My only son. The best, the brightest, the cleverest
man in England ! And devoted to you, body and soul."

I am infinitely obliged to you," said Miser Farebrother,
with a malicious grin ; " I will think about it."

A BEAUTIFUL BIRTHDAY.

Miser Farebrother did not keep his promise of taking
tea with Phoebe and her friends — he had matter more
serious to occupy him — but to some extent he made atonement
for it. He sent for Phoebe, and told her that he did
not feel equal to the excitement, but that, before the evening
was over, he would welcome Mr. and Mrs. Lethbridge
and her cousins to Parksides. This, to Phoebe, was almost
as good as the keeping of his promise ; he spoke in a feeble
voice, as though he was ill, and his unexpected kindness
and consideration touched her. She put her hand timidly
upon his shoulder, moved thereto by sweet pity for his condition,
and he did not repulse her; she was even bold
enough to lower her face to his and kiss him more than
once, and he bore it contentedly. A new feeling stirred
her heart, new hopes were born within her. That this unexpected
change in her father's bearing toward her should
VOL. I. 17

take place on her birthday was a happy omen, and she was

deeply grateful for it. From this time forth her home Use

would bring her joy instead of sorrow. She went from her

father's room with a light step, ready to burst forth into

song.

The feeble voice in which Miser Farebrother had spoken
to Phoebe was assumed ; his weakness was assumed ; all the
time she was with him he was watching her keenly and
warily. He had never thought of her but as a child ; the
idea of her marrying had never entered his head ; but now
that it was presented to him he seized upon it and turned
it about to the light. The only friends his daughter had
were the Lethbridges ; they had a son, who doubtless would
be only too ready to snap at such a bait as Phoebe. For
her sake ? — because he loved her ? — not at all. Because
her father was supposed to be rich ; because of the money
he would calculate upon getting with her. And thereafter
there would ever and eternally be but one cry — money,
money, money ! All their arts, all their endeavours, their
only object, would be to bleed his money-bags bare. " No,
no, Mr. Lethbridge," thought Miser Farebrother, "not a

penny shall ever pass from my pockets to yours." But the

danger might not present itself through the Lethbridges.

Phoebe might fall in love with a spendthrift or a cunning

rogue. That would be as bad — worse, perhaps. Despite his

aversion to the Lethbridges, his experience of them had taught

him that they were proud, and that in the event of Phoebe

marrying into their family there would be a chance of

respite for him after a time, a chance that they would

make up their minds to submit to poverty, and trouble him

no more. With a spendthrift it would be different. There

would be no peace for him ; the appeals for money would

be incessant; he would be torn to pieces with worry.

Then came the cunning rogue on to the scene, in the

shape which was most objectionable to Miser Farebrother,

in that of a scheming lawyer. There was more to fear

from that than from any other aspect of the subject.

Miser Farebrother knew the power of the law when he

invoked it on his side — which he never did without being

prepared with stamped deeds and witnessed signatures —

but he knew also the power of the law if, in certain cases

which he could call to mind, it were invoked against him.

17—2

Plaintiff and defendant were different things, had different
chances. He himself never prosecuted without weighing
the minutest chance, without being absolutely certain that
he was standing on sure legal ground. He had submitted
to losses rather than run a risk. There was one instance
in which a disreputable, out-ate elbows, dissipated lawyer
had defied him to his teeth — had unblushingly defrauded
him by threatening exposure. Miser Farebrother, knowing
that certain transactions in which he was principal would
not bear the light, had submitted to be robbed rather than
be dragged into the witness-box and cross-examined. Such
inquiries often commence tamely, but there is no saying
where they lead to ; a man's smallest peccadilloes are
shamelessly dragged forth, his very soul is turned inside
out. Then there are judges who, the moment a money-lending
case comes before them, set to work on the
debtor's side to defraud the creditor. Miser Farebrother,
therefore, was wise in his generation in the tactics he pursued.
Some low-minded scheming limb of the law might
pay court to Phoebe, with but one end in view. The
thought of it sent a shiver through his nerves.

His reflections were not agreeable, but he had a large
amount of common-sense, and he knew they might be
serviceable. He was not displeased with Mrs. Pamflett
for suggesting them. She was a useful woman ; truly, ashe
had said, he would not have known what to do without
her. She had made the same admission on her side ; that
was honest of her. There were conditions of life which a
sensible man must accept and make the best of, and his
was one. Not being able to purchase a new set of bones
and nerves, he felt that to a great extent he was at the
mercy of Mrs. Pamflett and Jeremiah. As difficult to replace
the loss of Jeremiah in his London office as to
replace the loss of Mrs. Pamflett in his house at Parksides.
It was a wretched state of things, but it must be borne, and
as much profit as possible made out of it. " Phoebe had
only herself to blame," he thought, with monstrous mental
distortion. " If she had been a boy instead of a girl, it
would all have been different."

There was no mistaking the meaning of Mrs. Pamflett's
references to her son. Well, Phoebe might do worse : and
if, as Mrs. Pamflett had said, he could so bind Jeremiah to

him as to make him an absolute slave to his interests, such
a marriage might be altogether the best thing that could
happen. It would be an additional protection to Miser
Farebrother's money-bags. " I will bind him tight'
thought the miser—" tight ! Clever lad, Jeremiah ; but
I shall be a match for him."

Not a thought of his daughter's happiness ; she would
have to do as he ordered. Thus, in the secrecy of
Miser Farebrother's room, the web was forming in
which Phoebe was to be entangled and her happiness
wrecked.

Outside this room everything was bright. Phoebe had
told x\unt and Uncle Lethh of her father's goodness, and
they, simple-minded and guileless as herself, rejoiced with
her. " Upon my word," said Uncle Lethh, '•' it almost
makes my dream true. Phoebe moved about, singing,
smiling, laughing to herself now and then, and scattering
flowers of gladness all around her. " I never saw our dear
Phoebe so bright," said Aunt Lethh. " Our visit to Park-sides
is a most beautiful surprise, quite different from what
I expected."

It was not the only surprise ; there was another, even
more subtly sweet to Phoebe. This was the appearance of
Fred Cornwall, who, finding no bell at the gates by which
he could announce his arrival, walked boldly through, and
suddenly presented himself. They were all outside the
house, awaiting Mrs. Pamflett's summons to tea.

"Why," exclaimed the arch-conspirator Fanny, calling
astonishment into her features, " if there isn't Mr. Cornwall
coming up the walk ! Who would have thought it ?
and how ever did he find us out ? "

Phoebe turned toward the young man, blushing, and with
a palpitating heart.

I hope you will pardon the liberty I have taken," said
he; "but as it is your birthday I thought I might
venture."

How did you know ? " asked Phoebe, her hand in
his,

A little bird told me," was his reply. " How do you
do, Aunt Lethh ? How do you do. Miss Fanny ? "

He exchanged pleasant words of greeting with his
friends and looked very handsome, and by no means ill at

ease, though an uninvited guest. Well dressed, well mannered,
a gentleman every inch of him.

At the door of the house, unseen by anyone of the happy
group, Mrs. Pamflett appeared. She saw the meeting, and
noted Phoebe's blushing face. She partly closed the door,
and, retreating a step, stood there, watching and debating
within herself.

Fred Cornwall held in his hand a bunch of flowers, very
choice specimens, loosely tied, and arranged with charming
grace. Not in the shape of a regulation bouquet, but infinitely
more beautiful in their apparently careless form.
He offered them to Phoebe, and she accepted them. Mrs.
Pamflett set her thin white lips close.

Then the young gentleman presented, as birthday gifts,
the presents he had bought for Phoebe on his Continental
trip, accompanying them with heart-felt wishes. Phoebe,
trembling, thrilling, was in the seventh heaven of joy.

When, however, she recovered her self-possession, she
felt herself in a difficulty. Would her father be angry ?
Aunt Lethh, seeing the light shadow on her face, moved aside
with her.

'•'You are thinking of your father, Phoebe ? " she said.

Yes, aunt."

You would like Mr. Cornwall to stop to tea ? " Enlightened
by Fanny's confession in the early part of the day,
she regarded Mr. Cornwall and her niece as lovers, and her
sympathies were already enlisted on their side.

Yes, aunt," replied Phoebe. " But it is a little awkward,
is it not ? What shall I do ? "

Go and ask your father," said Aunt Lethh. " Say that
Mr. Cornwall is a friend of ours, and that you have often
met him at our house. Go at once ; Mr. Cornwall need
not know ; I will keep him engaged while you are away."

Phoebe nodded, and started for the house. Mrs. Pam-fleet,
seeing her coming, beat a retreat, not desiring to meet
the young girl just at that moment.

Father," said Phoebe, " I am in a difficulty. I hope
you will not mind."

Not at all," said Miser Farebrother. She had never
heard him speak in a voice so kind and gentle.

A friend of Aunt Lethh's has just arrived, and has brought
me these." She showed him the flowers and the presents,

and he pretended to take interest in them. " He has been
on the Continent, father ; and he purchased presents for
all of us."

Very generous, very generous," said Miser Farebrother.
Did you invite him here ? "

No, father ; I would not have dared without asking
your consent. I can't make out how he found his way
here, and how he knew it was my birthday. I did not tell
him."

Perhaps your aunt did."

I think not, father."

'' What is your difficulty, Phoebe ? "

I should like to ask him to stop to tea, if you have no
objection."

"You may ask him," said Miser Farebrother. He had a
direct motive in giving his consent so readily. The nature
of his late reflections had inspired an interest in all Phoebe's
acquaintances, and he wished to see this friend of her
aunt's.

Oh, father, how can I thank you ? "

By obeying me, Phoebe."

"Yes, father; I will."

"I hope you will keep your word. What is the name of
this new friend ? "

Not new, father — old."

*' New to me. What is his name ? "

Mr. Cornwall. He is a gentleman, father."

"Young?"

"Yes, father."

What is he besides being a gentleman ? "

"He is a barrister."

A lawyer ? Ah ! A clever one ? "

They say so, father."

Ah ! Is he a great friend of your aunt's ? "

A very great friend, father. They think the world of
him."

He nodded, and dismissed her, and then gave himself up
again to contemplation of the incident in connection with
what had preceded it. He, as well as Mrs. Pamflett, had
noted his daughter's blushes, her eagerness, her excitement
of delight, and he placed his own construction upon her
manner. It seemed to him as if he had been drawn into

some game which it was vitally necessary he should win. It
was strange how things appeared to fit in with one another !
He had been thinking of lawyers, and here was one in his
house, an unmistakable intruder, with flowers and presents
for Phoebe, the daughter of rich Miser Farebrother. A
clever lawyer too, and a great friend of the Lethbridges,
whom he hated from the bottom of his heart. Bold
schemers they, and a bold ally this Mr. Cornwall, to presume
to come, uninvited, to his house, regarding him, its
owner, as a person of no importance, whose wishes it was
unnecessary to consult ! What had passed between this unwelcome
guest and Phoebe ? How far had they gone ? and
what was being hidden from him ? He did not doubt now
that the presence of the Lethbridges in Parksides on his
daughter's birthday was part of a cunning plot, in which their
lawyer friend was a principal actor. " They are all in a
league against me," he thought ; " but I shall be equal with
them. If Phoebe disobeys me, she must take the consequences.
I will wring a promise from her to-night before I
go to bed."

Mr. Cornwall," said Phoebe, when she rejoined her

friends in the open, " will you stop and have a cup of tea
with us."

Would it be possible," he said, turning with smiles to
Fanny, " for me to refuse ? "

How should I know ? " said Fanny, tossing her
head.

It will be a great pleasure to me," said Fred Cornwall
to Phoebe. " I almost feared that I should be looked upon
as an intruder."

Of course you did," said Fanny, making a face at him
behind her cousin's back; " that is why you came."

*' We can all go back to London together," said Aunt
Lath.

"Yes," said Fanny, "and you can make love to me in
the train."

"You must not mind her, Mr. Cornwall," said Aunt Lethh ;
"her high spirits sometimes run away with her."

I wish some nice young gentleman would," whispered
Fanny to Phoebe. " Why doesn't a fairy godmother take
me in hand ? "

"Aunt," said Phoebe, aside, to Mrs. Lethbridge, "I think

I was never quite so happy as I am to-day. You have no
idea how kind papa has been to me."

Aunt Lethh pressed Phoebe's arm affectionately, and at
that moment Mrs. Pamflett appeared and said that tea was
ready. She had delayed it till the last minute in the hope
that Jeremiah would arrive, and she was vexed and disappointed
at his absence. Outwardly, however, she was all
graciousness, and she took especial pains to put on her
most amiable manners.

'' No girl ever had a more beautiful birthday," thought
Phoebe, as they all trooped into the house.

END OF VOL. I.

KELLY AND CO., GATE STREET, LINCOLN'S INN FIELD?, W.C;

AND MIDDLE MILL, KINGSTON-ON-THAMES.

3 0112 045831432

^. Z. fA/?J£OM

MIRACLE GOLD. By Richard Dowling. 8 vols.

IDLE TALES. By Mrs. Liddell. 1 vol.

MOLLY'S STORY. By Frank Terrified. 8 vols.

FOR FREEDOM. By Tight Hopkins, 2 vols.

LADY STELLA AND HER LOVER. By H. Solly, n vols.

A VOICE IN THE WILDERNESS. By Caroline

FOTHERGILL. .S vols.

WARD X: DOWNEY, Publishers, London.

n

gi Sfohi.

BY

B. L. FAEJEON,

AUTHOR OF
GREAT PORTER SQUARE," "Grief," " IN A SILVER SEA," "THE HOUSE
OP WHITE SHADOWS," ETC.

IN Three VOLUMES.

VOL. II.

WARD & DOWNEY,
12, YORK STREET, COVENT GARDEN.

1888.
dramatic rights protected and I'ascrred.']

CONTENTS.

C^
>-

CHAP.

Iii.



III.-

IV.-

V.-

VI.-
VII.-
VIII. -
IX.

X.-

XI.-

XII.-

XIII.-

XIV.-

XV.-

XVI.-

XVII.-

XVIII.

XIX.

Jeremiah Pamflbtt ashes Himself

Arcades Ambo

-Miser Farebrother welcomes Piicebe's Friends

-A Sacred Promise— WoxV by Guile

-Tom Barley commences a New Life

-The First Night of "A Heart of Gold"

Diplomatic Fanny
-The Poor Author's Home
-What the Newspapers said of " A Heart ot

Gold "' .
-Hidden Treasure
-Miser Farebrother gives Jeremiah a Warning
-A Little Party in Captain Ablewhite's Rooms
-Jeremiah discovers a "System" by which iu'

must make a large fortune
-A Daughter's Duties

-PiKEBE IS STILL FURTHER EnTRAPPED

-The Engagement Ring
-Dark Clouds are gathering
O Make Tom Barley ! . . .
A Visit to Doncaster; ani its Results .

page
I






49




















:o:-

CHAPTER I.

JEREMIAH PAMFLETT ASSERTS HIMSELF.

The innocent fun and gaiety at the tea-table were long
afterward remembered. There was an animated discussion
as to who should take the head of the table. Phoebe wanted
Aunt Lethh to do so, but Fanny interfered, and said no one
should sit there but Phoebe.

It is Phoebe's day," persisted the light-hearted girl,,
"and something unlucky will happen if she doesn't pour
out the tea. Mr. Cornwall, come and court me at the
bottom of the table."

Didn't you say it was Miss Farebrother's day ? " said

Fred, as he took his seat next to the young hostess. He

was not wanting in resource, and rather enjoyed Fanny's

badinage.
/ Volet. 18

The table was much more plentifully supplied than
Phoebe expected, and she cast many grateful glances at
Mrs. Pamflett, who had certainly taken pains to do honour
to the occasion. Mrs. Pamflett received these tokens of
gratitude gravely and quietly ; no one would have supposed
that her mind was occupied by any other consideration
than the comfort of her young mistress's guests. But
nothing escaped her secretly watchful eyes ; every word,
every look, every little attention from Fred Cornwall to
Phoebe was carefully noted and treasured up.

A merrier meal was never enjoyed ; the buzz of conversation
was delightful to hear. Phoebe was the quietest,
Fanny the noisiest. Suddenly she became quite still, and
gazed pensively at Fred Cornwall.

A penny for your thoughts," said he.

They are yours at the price," she replied, holding out
her hand for the penny. " I am feeling very sorry for you."

Why ? "

*' Because I am convinced you would be much happier
if you were at this moment shelling peas with a certain young
lady in Switzerland."

This caused a general laugh, and Fred enlarged upon the
delights of his trip, Fanny interrupting him a dozen times
with some quizzical remark.

"You certainly want some one to keep you in order,
Fanny," laughingly observed her mother.

I do," replied Fanny, dolefully. " Where is that someone
? Why does he not appear ? "

Toward the end of the meal Mrs. Pamflett swiftly left the
room. Looking out of the window she saw her son
Jeremiah, and she hastened down to him.

Well, mother ? " said he 9

What has made you so late ? " she asked, anxiously.

Now, don't nag ! " he exclaimed. " I couldn't get here
before ; had a hundred things to look after. The new
clothes I ordered never came home, and I had to go and
bullyrag the tailor. How do I look, mother ? "

"Beautiful, Jeremiah, beautiful!" she said, enthusiastically.


On his feet were patent-leather shoes ; on his head the
shiniest of belltoppers ; on his hands lavender-coloured kid

gloves ; round his neck a light blue scarf, with a great car

18—2

uncle pin stuck in it ; and he wore a tourist's suit of russet-brown
of a very large check pattern.

*' Rather hicks 'em, doesn't it ? " he asked, in a tone of
self-admiration and approval, turning slowly round to exhibit
his points.

"That it does, Jeremiah."

Look at this," he said, taking off his hat.

Why, you've had your hair curled, Jeremiah ! "

*' Slightly ! Nobby, ain't it ? "

Beautiful ! My own dear boy ! "

*' Keep your fingers to yourself, can't you ? There, you've
gone and put it all out ! " He drew from his pocket a small
mirror, and anxiously readjusted the curls his mother had
touched. " Now just you be careful. Eyes on, hands off ! "

'* They must have cost a lot of money, Jeremiah."

'' They did ; a heap ; but in for a penny, in for a pound.
There's one comfort; it's all spent on myself Catch me
spending it on anybody else. They cost, altogether —
Well, never mind ; we're going in for a big thing, ain't we ?
I ain't particular to a pound or two when the stake's worth
it."

You have the heart of a lion ! " said Mrs. Pamflett.

What will she think of me, mother ? Look at me well ;
reckon me up."

She can't help thinking as I do, Jeremiah."

*' She's a ninny if she don't. She won't get another
chance like it, I'll bet."

*' What is that you're carrying, my boy ? "

A bouquet, Here, I'll just lift the paper, so that you
can see it. Roses, stephanotis, and maidenhair. Now,
who'll say I ain't a plucky one ? Just wipe this dust off
my boots."

In her full-hearted admiration Mrs. Pamflett had lost
sight of her conversation with Miser Farebrother, and of
the presence of Fred Cornwall in the room above ; but now,
as she carefully wiped Jeremiah's boots, it all came back to
her. Bidding him to give her his best attention, she told
him everything ; he listened to her attentively, and put a
good many questions to her when she had done, the most
important of which related to his master.

He didn't shy at it, then ? " he asked.

No," she replied ; " he seemed to take to it kindly."

You're sure he understood you ? "

He couldn't be off understanding me ; I put it to him
pretty plain. All you've got to do is to play your cards
well."

I'll do that. When I've got a winning hand I know
what to do with it."

"Are you pleased with me, Jeremiah?"

"Yes; it was a bold stroke; only don't do it again.
Let me play my own gam'j. I don't mind telling you
something if you'll keep it dark." He paused a moment
before continuing. " Do you see my thumb ? " He held
out his right hand, palm upward, with the thumb arched
over it. " I've got the London business like this ; I've got
Miser Farebrother like this. He's under my thumb,
mother, and he doesn't know it. If I left him he'd lose
thousands, and if the worst comes to the worst I can put
it to him like that in a way he can't mistake."

"Don't be rash, Jeremiah," implored Mrs. Pamflett;
be humble with him."

Oh, yes ; I'll be humble with him as long as it suits me.
Do you think I've been working all these years for nothing?

Do you think I've had the office all to myself for nothing ?
Does /le think I didn't take his measure years and years
ago, and that I didn't make up my mind what to do ? "

"Jeremiah ! Jeremiah ! " cried Mrs. Pamflett, " be careful.
He's cunning, he's clever; he can see with his eyes
shut."

I can beat him at his own game. Cunning as he is,
I'm cunning; clever as he is, I'm cleverer; I could see
without any eyes at all. Wasn't it as clear to me as daylight,
if I'd been content to be his slave, taking his miserable
few shillings a week, and trying to live on it, that I should
be no better off at seventy years than I was at seventeen ?
Oh, no ; not at all ! I was a fool, I was, and didn't know
how many beans made five ! I was born yesterday, I was !
There now ; I've said enough. You'll live to see something
that'll make you open your eyes. Oh ! hanged if I wasn't
forgetting. What did the governor do with that beggar,
Tom Barley ? "

*' Discharged him. He's gone for good."

He's gone for bad, you mean. He'll come to a nice
end, and I'll help him to it if I can. So the old hunks discharged

Tom Barley, did he ? Well, I settled his hash for
him, at all events."

It shows what influence you have over the master,"
observed Mrs. Pamflett.

I'll have more before I've done with him. Hallo !
Just hear how they're laughing upstairs. I say, mother,
couldn't you call Phoebe down here ? I don't care about
giving her the flowers with all that lot looking on and sniggering.
Just you go and whisper to her that a gentleman
wants very particularly to see her. Wait a minute ; is my
scarf right ? "

"Yes, Jeremiah," said Mrs. Pamflett, and was about to
leave him, when he cried again, nervously :

"Wait a minute, can't you? What a hurry you're in.
What would you say to her, mother, when you give 'em to
her ? "

Wish her many happy returns of the day, Jeremiah ;
and you might ask if she will give you a cup of tea.
That will give you an excuse for following her; she
can't very well leave the people upstairs long to themselves."


All right ; I'll do it." And Jeremiah struck an attitude,
and waited for Phoebe, who had received a message, not
that " a gentleman " wanted particularly to see her, but that
a friend was below who was anxious to wish her many happy
returns. When Phoebe heard this, she thought for a moment
that it might be faithful Tom Barley, whom Mrs. Pamflett,
in her good-nature, had allowed to enter, and she was startled
when she saw Jeremiah Pamflett.

It's me, miss," said that worthy. " You're not sorry, I
hope?"

"No," she said, awkwardly ; "not at all."

"Seeing it was your birthday," said Jeremiah, "I thought
I'd give you an agreeable surprise. Just look at this." Ke
took the blue paper off the bouquet, and held it up for her
admiration.

It is very pretty," said Phoebe.

I should rather say it was. It cost enough, anyhow :
eight and six I gave for it."

He paused for a reply, and Phoebe said, " Yes ? " not
knowing what else to say.

Half a guinea they asked, but I beat 'em down. They

do try to take you in, the shopkeepers ; but I get up a little
too early for them. When they try their games on me,
they try 'em on the wrong party. Don't you think so ? "
He made a motion with his elbow, with the intention of
digging it playfully into her side ; but she shrank back, and
frustrated his amiable design. " I went to Covent Garden
myself to pick it out." He paused again, and as she did
not speak, he thought, " Hang it ! why doesn't she say
something ? " comforting himself, however, with the reflection
that his resplendent appearance had "regularly knocked
her over," as he would have openly expressed it in his choice
vernacular. Feeling that he was not getting along as well
as he wished, he wound up with, " For you, miss; wishing
you many happy returns of the day."

You are very kind," said Phoebe, having no option
but to accept the bouquet, " to spend so much money upon
me."

Oh," said Jeremiah, boastfully, " I can do a thing
swell when I've a mind to. I never laid out so much on
flowers before, but I wouldn't mind doing it again — for you,
miss."

Pray don't think of it," said Phoebe, not knowing
whether to laugh or to cry.

Well, I won't say whether I will or not. It all depends."
He spread himself out airily in order that she might have a
good view of him. He took off his hat, touched his curled
hair gingerly, put his left arm akimbo, and stood at ease,
with his right leg outstretched. He was rather proud of his
manners, and thought he was making an impression. The
question whether Phoebe should laugh or cry was determined
by his attitude, and Jeremiah was somewhat confounded asa
light hysterical laugh escaped her. ^

What at, miss ? " he asked, the smirk on his face changing
to a frown.

"At that boy," said Phoebe, looking at the back of him;
*'he is so funny."

Jeremiah, turning, really saw a ragged little boy approaching
them. It was a fortunate escape for Phoebe,
who went toward the little fellow and asked him what he
wanted.

I wants to see the young lady of the 'ouse," said the
boy. " Are you 'er ? "

Yes."

I'm to give yer this, and run away."

A faithful messenger. He gave a small brown paper
parcel to Phoebe, and scuttled away as fast as his little legs
would carry him. Phoebe, wondering, opened the parcel,
and there lay a few wild daisies, accompanied by a piece of
white paper, upon which was written, " With Tom Barley's
humble duty. For ever and ever." It was shocking writing,
and Phoebe had some difficulty in deciphering it ; but
it brought the tears to her eyes. She put the paper in her
pocket, and pinned the daisies at her bosom.

"I beg your pardon for leaving you," said Phoebe to
Jeremiah. "And now I must go to my friends."

You might offer me a cup of tea, miss," he said.

"Yes, I will, though I am afraid it is almost cold."

Nothing can be cold where you are, miss," said Jeremiah,
gallantly. " I'll come up with you. Why do you
wear those publishing flowers ? You can pick 'em up in the
fields."

They are from an old friend," said Phoebe, loyally. " I
value them quite as much as if they had cost — " She

Stopped, frightened at her rashness ; she was about to add,
"eight and six." Jeremiah completed the sentence for her,
supplying the precise words in her mind.

"As if they cost eight and six, miss," he said, quietly.
There was a venom in his voice which made her shudder.
I'll think of that."

She felt it necessary to mollify him, and though she hated
herself for her duplicity, she was very gracious to him as
they ascended the stairs, so that when they entered the
room his equanimity was restored. It may have been the
grandeur of his appearance, or perhaps it was something in
Phoebe's face, that caused an awkward pause in the merriment
upon their entrance. Fortunately for the situation,
Mrs. Pamflett was in the room, and as Phoebe made no
attempt to introduce Jeremiah to the company, Mrs. Pam-fleet
said, in a distinct, measured voice, "My son, Mr.
Pamflett, Mr. Farebrother's manager."

Mr. Lethbridge rose and offered the young man his
hand.

Glad to know you," said Jeremiah. "You're Mr. Lethbridge.
How do you do, all of you ? "

Mrs. Lethbridge inclined her head, perceiving that something
was wrong. Fanny with difficulty repressed a giggle,
Bob looked supercilious, while Fred Cornwall scarcely
glanced at the new arrival.

"Will you give Mr. Pamflett a cup of tea, aunt?" said
Phoebe.

*'No," said Jeremiah, "not from your aunt, if you please;
from you. Then I shan't want any sugar in it. Anything
the matter with you, miss ? " He addressed this question
to Fanny, from whom an uncertain sound of laughter was
proceeding.

Something in my throat," replied Miss Fanny.

Shall I slap you on the back, miss ? "

No, no ! " cried Fanny, suddenly quite sobered.

Jeremiah drank his tea quite slowly, looking alternately
from one to the other. There was a dead silence in the
room.

Shall my niece pour you out another cup ? " asked Mrs.
Lethbridge, politely.

"If it will oblige her," said Jeremiah, with cold malignity,
"she may."

Without a word Phoebe poured out the tea and handed it
to him. He drank it even more slowly than he had done
the first cup. When it was finished, Mrs. Lethbridge said,
*' There is no more in the pot."

*' That is a pity," said Jeremiah, " because we are enjoying
ourselves so."

*' I propose," said Mrs. Lethbridge, " that we go into the
open air. It is a most lovely evening."

They all rose, glad of the escape. Jeremiah pushed himself
between Fred Cornwall and Phoebe, and walked by her
side down the stairs. When they were in the open he said
to her, "You have forgotten your bouquet. I will go and
bring it to you. Shall I ? "

If you please," she answered, faintly. She could make
no other reply.

His mother met him in the passage. " Miser Fare-brother
wishes to see you, Jeremiah. You can join Miss
Phoebe afterward."

"All right," said Jeremiah; "I will. Look here,
mother. Is that Cornwall fellow sticking up to
Phoebe?"

"That is for you to find out, Jeremiah. If you are my
son you are not to be easily beaten."

Easily beaten ! " he echoed, with malignant emphasis.
** When my back's up, I generally let people know it. Did
you notice how they behaved to me at the tea-table ? "

You paid them out for it, Jeremiah," said Mrs. Pam-fleet,
exultingly. " I am proud of you"'

You shall have more reason by-and-by. Paid them out
for it ! Why, they didn't have a word to say for themselves
! I just looked at them, and shut them up ! As for
Phoebe, let her look out ; that's all I say — let her look out !
Did you ever see a cat play with a mouse ? "

Often, Jeremiah."

Well, let her look out for herself. That's all I've got
to say."

ARCADES AMBO.

Jeremiah entered Miser Farebrother's room, holding in his
hand the bouquet of flowers he had brought for Phoebe. He
had debated within himself whether he should allow the
miser to see them or no, and he had decided in the affirmative.
"Mother commenced it," he thought, "and I'll goon
with it. Strike while the iron's hot, Jeremiah."

"You sent for me," said he, laying the bouquet on the
table in full view of Miser Farebrother.

"Are those the flowers the gentleman lawyer gave my
daughter ? " asked Miser Farebrother.

No," replied Jeremiah ; " I didn't know he brought her
any. I bought these in Covent Garden to present to Miss
Phoebe."

"You are growing extravagant," said the miser; "and

you are becoming quite a gay young character : first escort-vol.
II. . 19

ing my daughter home from the village, and now presenting
her with expensive flowers. It rains flowers in Parksides today.
I was never guilty of such extravagance — never."

This is the first time / have ever done such a thing,"
said Jeremiah, apologetically ; " but seeing it was Miss
Phoebe's birthday, I thought the money wouldn't be exactly
thrown away. Look here — that lawyer chap ; he's up to no
good."

You don't like lawyers ? "

*' No more than you do ; though, mind you, if I was married
and had a son, I'd bring him up as one. Then he'd
know exactly how far to go, and I should get my legal business
done for nothing."

*' Oh ! oh ! " said Miser Farebrother, with a quiet
chuckle " If you were married and had a son ! That's
looking ahead, Jeremiah."

*rit's a good plan; it keeps one prepared. You've no
objection to my giving Miss Phoebe these flowers, I suppose
? "

Not the slightest, so long as you bought them with your
own money. Only don't do too much of that sort of thing.

When you spend money, spend it to advantage — in something
that will last, or will make more money. Spending
money in flowers is folly ; in two days flowers and money
are gone. You can look at them in gardens and shop
windows, then you get all your pleasure for nothing.
That's the wise plan. Costs nothing for looking, Jeremiah."

"You are quite right. I'll bear in mind what you say,
and profit by it."

"That pleases me. What I like is obedience — blind
obedience — and I will have it from those in my control.
So — you're thinking of marriage, eh ? A wife is an expensive
toy."

Not when you've got the right one ! Likely as not it
keeps a man out of mischief."

So long as you've got the right one ! Your mother
said something to me ; has she told you of it ? "

Jeremiah considered a moment, and for once in his life
was candid.

Yes," he said, " she told me of it."

Sit down, Jeremiah."

The astute young man obeyed in silence, and inwardly

19—2

congratulated himself. *' Things are going on swimmingly "

he thought ; " the fish is as good as in my net already."

While Miser Farebrother, gazing on Jeremiah, thought,

I'll bind him tight ; I'll bind him tight ! " Presently he

spoke.

*' You have been a long time in my service, and are acquainted
with my business'*

I know all the ins and outs of it," said Jeremiah. "I've
got it at my fingers' ends."

Miser Farebrother sighed. Humbly as Jeremiah's words
were spoken, the miser felt that his managing clerk had
him in his power. Well, the best plan was to put chains
around him, and what chains so tight and binding as matrimony
?

If I came to grief, Jeremiah, you could set up in business
for yourself ? "

Yes," said Jeremiah, boldly ; " and make a fortune.

But you come to grief ! No, sir ; not while I am with you."

It is my misfortune," continued the miser, " and your

good luck, that I am ill and weak, and unable to give the

proper personal attention to my affairs"'

Why say * misfortune,' sir ? It may be your good luck
as well as mine."

*but it is as I say," cried Miser Farebrother, testily.

Very well, sir. Then what a shrewd man would do is
to make the best of it." Jeremiah's cue was not to cross or
vex his master ; to assert himself up to a certain point, but
to lead the miser to believe that in him, Jeremiah, a wily
master had a suitable tool, who, for a prospective advantage,
would devote himself hand and foot, body and soul,
to his employer's interest.

That is all that is left to me," groaned Miser Fare-brother
— " to make the best of it. Jeremiah Pamflett," he
said, abruptly, " were I in your place and you in mine, how
would you act ? "

Under precisely similar circumstances ? "

Yes, under precisely similar circumstances."

"I should seek an interview," said Jeremiah, keeping
down his excitement, "with the young man who was
managing my business in London for me, in whom I had
every confidence, and say to him, * You seem to have a
liking for my daughter'"

Ah ! " said Miser Farebrother, " Go on."
* My object is,' I should say to this young man, * that
she shall marry a man who will serve me faithfully, to keep
her out of the hands of scheming relatives, and to keep her
especially out of the hands of scheming lawyers. You are
the man I would select as her husband. Marry her, and
continue to serve me faithfully, and then all our interests
will be common interests, and I shall be safe from conspiracies,
which have but one end in view : to rob me of
my hard-earned money.' After that I should wait to hear
what he had to say."

Not yet, Jeremiah, not yet," said Miser Farebrother ;
there is still something more to be said on my side. Supposing
that the words you have put into my mouth
have been spoken by me to you, I should not wind up
there. I should continue thus : * If I give you my consent
to pay court to my daughter, who, when I am gone, will, if
she behaves herself, inherit what little property I have, you
must bind yourself to me for a term of years. No, not fora
term of years, but for as long as I am alive. There shall
be an agreement drawn up, a binding agreement, which, if

you break, will render you liable for a heavy penalty, which
I shall exact. Your salary shall be so much a week, and no
more ; and you are not to ask me for more. You are to be,
until my last hour, my servant, amenable to me, acting under
my instructions, and you are not to put yourself in opposition
to my wishes.' That, as far as I can at present see, is
what I should say to you, Jeremiah ; and now I await your
answer."

My answer is," said Jeremiah, " that I agree to everything.
It is my interest to do so. You see, sir, I don't
mince matters, and don't want to take any credit to myself
that I am not entitled to."

Continue in that vein," said Miser Farebrother, " and
all will be well. But don't think I am going to die yet
awhile."

I hope," cried Jeremiah, fervently, " that you will live
for fifty years."

I may believe that or not," said Miser Farebrother,
dryly, " as I please. Make no mistakes with me, Jeremiah ;
I know what human nature is. You have my permission
to pay court to my daughter."

Oh, thank you, sir, thank you ! " exclaimed Jeremiah,
attempting to take the miser's hand.

We want none of that nonsense," said Miser Fare-brother,
sardonically. " We have entered into a bargain,
and that is enough. Now attend to me, and follow my instructions.
What has passed between us is, for the present,
to be kept a secret. There is to be no hurry, no violence.
Pay attention to my daughter in a quiet way : endeavour
to win her favour — "

Her love, sir, her love ! " interrupted Jeremiah, enthusiastically.


"Her love, if you will; but that is between you and her.
I do not propose that there shall be an immediate break
between her and her relatives, the Lethbridges. Things
must be allowed to go on as usual in that quarter. I have
my own reasons for biding my time. When I tell you to
speak openly to my daughter, you will speak openly, and
not till then. You agree to this ? "

*' Yes, sir, yes ; I agree."

Should she offer any obstacle, I will throw upon your
side the weight of my authority, and she will not dare to

disobey me. Meanwhile keep a watch upon the Lethe
and their lawyer friend, who has come here to-day
uninvited. He may have some design against me ; he may
know something which it is necessary I should learn before
I put my foot down. And further, friend Jeremiah, you are
not to presume because I have given you this great chance.
Everything between us is to remain as it is. I am my own
master and yours, and I submit to no dictation."

On the gray, sly face of Jeremiah Pamflett no expression
was visible which could be construed into rebellion at these
imperious words, but in his mind reigned the thought :
My master, are you ? I will make you pipe to another
tune before you are many months older. Let me but get
hold of Phoebe, and I will grind you as you are grinding
me ! " Master and man were well matched.

«-^^^^3^

MISER FAREBROTHER WELCOMES Phoebe's FRIENDS.

Life is sweet and beautiful to a young and innocent girl
when to her heart is conveyed the assurance that she is beloved.
Then is the world in its spring-time, and all outward
evidence is in harmony with the tremulous joy which stirs
her being. What sorrow lies in the past fades utterly away
in the light of a new-born happiness. She lives in the present,
which is imbued with a solemn and sacred tenderness.
Strangely beautiful are the time and scene : she loves, and
is beloved.

To a pure and trustful heart no direct words are needed
for such an assurance ; and between Fred Cornwall and
Phoebe no direct words were spoken as they walked together
in a retired part of the grounds of Parksides. How they
had wandered thereat how they had come to be alone, they
did not know, and they did not stop to inquire. All that
they felt was the sweetness and the beauty of the hour. He

spoke of many things : of his tour, and the adventures he
had met with ; of the occasions upon which some small incident
brought her to his mind, of his delight when he found
himself back in London — " to be near you," he would have
said, but hardly dared yet to be so outspoken ; of the resolution
he had formed to " get along " in spite of all the
difficulties in his path.

"No easy matter," he said: " the ranks are so crowded ;
but when a man is determined, and has a dear object to
spur him on, he has already half gained success."

She did not ask him what the dear object was ; it was
for him to speak and for her to listen ; and, indeed, he
would have spoken more directly had he felt himself in a
position to marry. But there was the home to make, and
the clear prospect of being able to maintain it. He must
be able to go to her father and say, " I am in such and such
a position, and I love your daughter." Deeply in love ashe
was with the sweet girl walking by his side, there was a
practical side to his character which augured well for his
future. He was a proud and honourable young fellow, and
he shrank from presenting himself to Miser Farebrother asa

beggar. No ; he must first win his spurs ; must show the
kind of stuff he was made of, and that he was worthy of the
treasure he aspired to win. He had heard that Miser Fare-brother
was very rich and very grasping, and he was aware
that in deaHng with such a man he was treading on
delicate ground. He did not dare to risk a refusal. To
trade upon the prospect of living upon the money Miser
Farebrother might give his daughter was, in Fred Cornwall's
view, a base proceeding, and he could not lend himself
to it. " I wish the old gentleman was poor," he
thought ; " then I would speak at once. But a few months
will soon pass."

Meanwhile, this quiet hour with Phoebe assured him that
he had won her love, and that she would wait for him. Hem
y be forgiven for being a little sentimental ; it is an old
fashion, as old as hearts ; and that their hands should meet,
and that the girl's pulses should thrill at the touch of his,
is natural and good when young people commune in innocence
and honour. The silence that fell upon them now
and then was sweeter, perhaps, than the words that were
spoken.

Fanny championed and guarded them, and kept intruders
off. The principal would-be offender was Bob, and it
needed all his sister's cleverness to keep him by her side.
It is to be feared, however, that if he had had any suspicion
of what was going on, he would have made a bold dash for
it; but a very unsuspicious mortal was Bob, and the last
thought in his mind was that any young gentleman would
come wooing his pretty cousin. Fanny was completely in
her element, fencing and parrying questions asked by her
father and brother, saying : " Oh ! she will be here presently.
Do you think she has no one to attend to but us ?"
Aunt Lethh was discreetly silent ; she remembered the time
when she herself was young, and her dear husband came
courting her. Once Mrs. Pamflett came up, and asked,
Where is Miss Farebrother ? "

Fanny promptly answered her : " Dear me ! She was
here but a moment ago ! I think she must have gone in
that direction." (Pointing in front of her, while Phoebe
was in the rear.)

And Mr. Cornwall," said Mrs. Pamflett, very quietly,
has he also gone in that direction ? "

"Oh no!" said Fanny, unblushingly ; "he has gone to
have a smoke. Men are the selfishness creatures, are they
not, Mrs. Pamflett?"

Mrs. Pamflett sighed a gentle endorsement of the declaration,
and meekly went the way indicated by Fanny.
She turned off, however, when she could no longer be seen
by the Lethbridges, and by a devious path successfully
tracked Phoebe and Fred Cornwall, whom, from a distance,
she watched with lynx eyes, noting the manner of their association
— Phoebe's head modestly bent down, and Fred
gazing upon her with looks of love.

Fanny, meanwhile, talking away vivaciously, suddenly
stopped in the middle of a sentence, and cried, " Oh ! "

Has a pin run into you ? " asked Bob ; but he too
gasped as he saw Miser Farebrother,leaning upon Jeremiah's
arm, standing in front. Aunt Lethh was the first to speak to
him.

How do you do, Mr. Farebrother ? " she said, holding
out her hand.

Weak and ill, as you see," said Miser Farebrother,
shaking hands with his sister-in-law ; " a martyr to rheumatism

and other pains. I'm growing old, sister-in-law ; I am
growing old. Don't you see the change in me ? "

"We are all growing old," said Mrs. Lethh bridge, with a
sympathizing smile.

But some can bear it better than others," groaned Miser
Farebrother. " Now, you are strong and can walk without
assistance. Look at me : even with my crutch-stick I cannot
walk without human support. Don't go, Jeremiah ; I shall
fall to the ground if you leave me. You know my 
? " •

Yes," said Jeremiah, with a careless nod at Aunt Lethh ;
*' we had tea together — a delightful tea."

He had been searching with his eyes for Phoebe, and not
seeing her or Fred Cornwall, had made a movement to
leave his master.

We have to thank you," said Aunt Lethh to Miser Fare-brother,
"for a very pleasant evening."

Don't speak of it. We ought to see more of each
other ; you ought to have been here oftener. One's flesh
and blood — we are almost that, are we not, sister-in-law ? —
should not desert one as you have deserted me."

Indeed ! indeed ! " stammered Aunt Lethh, somewhat
confounded by this reproach.

Never mind, never mind," said Miser Farebrother, with
a gentle air of resignation. " We must say nothing but kind
things to one another. If you have deserted me, you have
not deserted my dear child, who is always full of praises of
you."

*' We love her," said Aunt Lethh, " as well as we love our
own."

It is very good of you. Is that your husband ? My
eyesight is shockingly weak. I'm breaking fast, I'm afraid."

Mr. Lethbridge came forward, and Miser Farebrother
seized his hand and gave it a cordial grasp. The kindhearted
man could find nothing better to say than,

I am very glad to see you, Mr. Farebrother."

Not so glad to see me as I am to see you. It is quite
like old times — quite like old times. How is the world
using you ? But I need not ask ; I can see for myself. I
am very pleased — very — very ! You deserve it. I wish the
world used me as w^U ; but we can't all be so fortunate.
When I was a young man, I used to hope that when I was

as old as I am now I should be able to keep a carriage.
Young hopes, brother-in-law — eh ? Seldom realized, are
they ? I can hardly afford to keep a — a wheelbarrow — eh,
Jeremiah ? "

Yes, sir," said Jeremiah, obsequiously.

We can't have all we wish," pursued Miser Farebrother ;
and Jeremiah, although he was impatient to go in search of
Phoebe, whom he now looked upon as his property, could
not help taking interest and pleasure in his master's gentle
and philosophic departure, which he, better than any one
of the other listeners, could appreciate at its true value.
In a hundred years to come, a carriage and a wheelbarrow
will be all the same to us. Still, I am glad to hear of your
good fortune." (Mr. Lethbridge stared, and wondered
whether he was awake or asleep, or whether he had said
anything of which he was unconscious.) " How well and
hale you look ! Not a day older — not a day. You must
tell me the secret ; though I fear it is too late for me. And
this young gentleman" — turning to Bob, who became suddenly
very hot and uncomfortable — " your son, eh ? — your

bright boy ? "

VOL. II. 20

"Yes," said Mr. Lethbridge ; "our son Robert."

How do you do, nephew ? " said Miser Farebrother,
giving Bob two fingers, which, when Bob got them, he did
not know what to do with. " And how is the world using
you ? "

Extremely well, sir, thank you," Bob blurted out, without
in the least knowing what he was saying ; for, instead of the
world using him extremely well, it was not using him at
all.

How pleasant to hear ! " exclaimed Miser Farebrother.
I feel like rubbing my hands, but one has my crutch-stick
in it, and the other is leaning on Jeremiah. You come of a
lucky stock ; go on and prosper, nephew. And this — "
He turned to Fanny, who, in a feverish state, was awaiting
recognition. She was so confused that it was not until hours
afterward that her indignation was excited at being referred
to as " this " — as though she were a chattel.

Our daughter Fanny," said Aunt Lethh, observing that
her husband was incapable of speech.

Kiss me, niece," said Miser Farebrother. He raised
his wrinkled face, and Fanny put her lips to it. He called

Jeremiah chuckled quietly.

*' My young gentleman ! " cried Fanny, flushing up.

Her mother gave her a warning look.

Yes, your young gentleman. There is one here, isn't
there ? or did Phoebe make a mistake ? "

You mean Mr. Cornwall," said Aunt Lethh, in a gentle
tone.

I think that is the name Phoebe mentioned. A lawyer,
isn't he?"

Yes," replied Fanny, before her mother could speak,
and a very clever one."

Bravo ! bravo ! " exclaimed Miser Farebrother. " That
is as it should be. I am sure he is a very clever one ; I
hope we are not wrong in our opinion of him — for your sake,
niece, for your sake. Sister-in-law, brother-in-law, I congratulate
you. Niece, kiss me again."

20—2

Fanny held back, but her mother murmured, " Fanny ! "
and the girl kissed the miser's wrinkled face again, upon
which he smacked his lips and cast up his eyes languishingly.


And now," he said, " I must really go and find my dear
Phoebe and the very clever lawyer. JVe must go ; mustn't
we, Jeremiah ? See, sister-in-law, Jeremiah brought some
flowers for my dear child, and happening to forget them
when she left the table, she sent him back for them. I am
ashamed of myself for having detained him. Do you know
where Phoebe is ? — this way — or that ? That way ? Thank
you; I shall easily find her. Remember what I said to
you — we must really see more of each other; you must
come here oftener. And you, brother-in-law, and you,
niece. And hark you, nephew : when I asked you how the
world was using you, you answered, ' Extremely well, sir.'
You did, did you not ? "

Yes, sir," said Bob, not knowing what was coming.
You were wrong, and you are wrong again. Sister-in-law,
too : you called me ' Mr. Farebrother ? ' "
Yes," said Aunt Lethh, faintly.

But why ? why ? Why * sir ' and why ' Mr.' ? Everybody
else calls me Miser Farebrother. I like it ; it tickles
me. Pray call me that for the future, like good-natured
souls, as you are. Come, Jeremiah, come. Phoebe will be
impatient for your flowers."

He hobbled away, clinging to Jeremiah's arm, and presently
said,

"Well, Jeremiah?"

Thank you," said Jeremiah.

Keep faith with me," said Miser Farebrother, fiercely,
taking his hand from Jeremiah's arm, and standing erect,
and I'll keep faith with you. Trick me, deceive me, rob
me, and I'll make England too hot to hold you ! "

Why do you speak to me like that ? " asked Jeremiah,
in an injured tone.

Because I know the world," retorted the miser ; " because
I know human nature. Did I show it to them just
now, or did I not ? Did I compel them to be honey to my
face, while they hated me in their hearts ? Play tricks with
me, and I'll serve you worse ! "

We have made a bargain," said Jeremiah, submissively,

*rand I will keep to it, and be grateful to you all my

life''

"That is what I want," said Miser Farebrother. "While
I am alive I am master. When I am gone, you will have
your turn."

After that they walked on in silence ; but Jeremiah's
thoughts, fashioned into words, may be thus construed :
When you are gone ! You think I will wait till then, do
you ? You old fool ! you're not in it with me ! "

For a few moments after Miser Farebrother left the
Lethbridges they gazed at each other in silence. Then
said Fanny :

"Would you like to know what I think of Uncle — no —
Miser Farebrother ? Well, I think he's a brute ! "

Hush, hush, Fanny ! " said Mrs. Lethbridge. " For
Phoebe's sake ! "

A SACRED PROMISE WON BY GUILE.

Upon the happy musings of the lovers came a harsh interruption.
They turned and saw Miser Farebrother and
Jeremiah.

*' I have been looking for you, Phoebe," said the miser ;
"and so has Jeremiah."

Your flowers, miss," said Jeremiah, offering them.

With her father's eye upon her, she could not choose but
take them.

You sent me back for them, you know," said Jeremiah.
I should have brought them before, but for — "

"But for my calling to him," interrupted Miser Fare-brother,
"upon a matter of business. I am pleased that
your friends have enjoyed themselves. You have had a
pleasant birthday, Phoebe ? "

Very pleasant, father ; I shall never forget it. Father,

this is Mr. Cornwall, who brought me the presents I showed

you."

** I trust you will excuse me," said Fred, gazing with
interest at Phoebe's father, " for intruding myself. But
Miss Farebrother and I have met so often at Mrs. Lethbridge's
house that I thought I might venture."

All my daughter's friends," said Miser Farebrother, in
his blandest tone, "are welcome here. A very charming
family, the Lethbridges."

Indeed they are," said Fred, warmly.

We have met but seldom," said Miser Farebrother,
"and I was just expressing my regret that we did not see
each other oftener."

Oh, father ! " said Phoebe, in a grateful voice, gliding to
his side. There was no discordant note in his speech ; he
looked kindly upon her ; and he had met Fred Cornwall ina
spirit of friendliness. Her cup of happiness was full to
overflowing.

"Perhaps Mr. Cornwall will give me his address," said
Miser Farebrother. " I may ask him to decide some knotty
point of law for me."

Fred Cornwall drew forth his card-case with alacrity, and
handed a card to the miser.

"You will excuse me now," said Miser Farebrother ; " I
am by no means well, and I must go in-doors and rest.
Remain with your friends, Phoebe ; Jeremiah will assist me
to my room. Come in and wish me good-night, Phoebe,
before you retire."

"Yes, father, I will."

He smiled amiably, and saying " Good evening, Mr.
Cornwall," departed, clinging to Jeremiah's arm. Jeremiah
was not at all in a good humour ; he would have preferred
to be left behind with Phoebe, and he said as much to his
master.

Be wise, be wise, Jeremiah," said Miser Farebrother, in
response to this complaint. "You are but a novice with
these people. Take a lesson from me, and learn to wait
with patience. Before a good general strikes a blow, he lays
his plans, and satisfies himself that everything is in order.
Do I know how to act, eh ? Have I already entangled and
confused them, or have I not ? I shall be a subject of discussion
among them. ' He was flinging stones at us all the

time he was speaking,' the Lethbridges will say. ' He said
the most sarcastic things.' Who will defend me ? The
sharp lawyer, Mr. Cornwall, and, better than all, my daughter
Phoebe. * You are mistaken,' she will say ; * I am sure you
are mistaken. He has been kindness itself; you do not
understand him.' Then she will appeal to Mr. Cornwall,
and ask him whether I did not speak in the most beautiful
way of her aunt and uncle, and he will be able to make but
one answer. That will silence them ; they won't have a
word to say for themselves. Ha, ha ! I am really enjoying
the game."

He kept Jeremiah with him until the Lethbridges and
Fred Cornwall were gone, and then sent him back to
London, bidding him not to take the same train as Phoebe's
relatives.

It was between ten and eleven o'clock when Phoebe
received a message from her father, through Mrs. Pamflett,
bidding her come to him and wish him good-night. Phoebe
had been sitting at the open window of her bedroom,
musing upon the happy day fast drawing to an end. A
tender light bathed the grounds of Parksides, and seemed

to the happy girl to be an omen of the future — a future of
love and peace. The soft breeze kissed her, and whispered
to her of love ; the silence of nature was eloquent with the
immortal song ; a tremulous joy possessed her soul. " He
loves me ! he loves me ! he loves me ! " This was the song
sang by her heart, bringing light to her eyes, blushes to her
cheeks, and causing her, from a very excess of joy, to hide
her face in her hands. " How sweet, how beautiful is the
world ! " she said inly to herself. " How good everybody is
to me ! " She rose from these musings to attend her father.
Mrs. Pamflett accompanied her to the door of his apartment.


Good-night," she said to the young girl.

"Good-night, Mrs. Pamflett," said Phoebe; "and thank
you for all you have done to-day."

I am glad you are pleased with me. May I call you
Phoebe?"

"Yes, if you like."

May I kiss you ? "

Yes," said Phoebe, with a bright look ; and she received
and returned the kiss.

This is the commencement of a happy time for you,
Phoebe." She had heard from her son all the particulars
of the agreement entered into by him and Miser Fare-brother.


Phoebe glanced shyly at her, and thought, " Does she
know about Mr. Cornwall ? Does everybody know ? " She
answered Mrs. Pamflett's remark aloud : " I am sure it is.
Oh, Mrs. Pamflett, I a7/i happy — very, very happy ! "

I am delighted to hear you say so. Good-night again,
Phoebe."

"Good-night, Mrs. Pamflett."

When she was in her father's room, with the door closed,
what reason had Phoebe to suppose that Mrs. Pamflett was
crouching down outside, to catch what passed between
Miser Farebrother and his daughter ?

*' Come and sit beside me, Phoebe," said Miser Fare-brother.
" So — the birthday is over ? "

Nearly over, father."

And your friends have gone away contented ? "

"Yes, father."

Those flowers look well in your dress. What flowers

are they ? Ah, I see — white daisies and roses. Who gave
you the daisies ? "

A poor friend in the village sent them to me." Knowing
that her father was incensed against Tom Barley, she did
not dare to mention his name.

*•' And the roses, Phoebe ? "

Mr. Cornwall gave them to me," said Phoebe, timidly.

Can you spare me one ? "

She gave it to him gladly, and he stuck it in his coat.
Phoebe's heart beat quick. Every sign that came to her
was in harmony with its throbbing. ^

I am sorry for your sake, Phoebe, that I am not younger
and stronger."

Dear father ! I grieve that you suffer so ! If I only
knew what to do to make you well ! "

That is spoken like a dutiful child. All that you can dois
not to worry me — not to give me pain."

Indeed, indeed, father," said Phoebe, earnestly, " I will
never do that ! "

You are a good girl. It is strange that it was only the
other day I suddenly discovered you were a woman. The

change brings other changes ; and I, your father, must not
be blind to the fact. Why, Phoebe," he said, gaily, *' it is
more than likely that one day you will marry 1 " Phoebe
hung her head. "You blush ! — as your dear mother used
to blush when she and I were talking of love. I did my
best to make her happy. She died too soon for you and
me ! " He sighed, and paused a moment. " And now,
Phoebe, I am both mother and father to you."

"Yes, dear father."

"I have only one wish in life, Phoebe — your happiness :
and we must bring it about. It has happened sometimes
that you have not seen me in a right light ; I have said
things which may have laid me open to misconstruction.
They have not really come from my heart ; I have been so
tortured with pain that I scarcely knew what I was saying.
Will you forgive me, Phoebe ? "

Dear father, I love you ! "

"You are my own child, your sainted mother's child !
Before she died she spoke to me of the time when you
would be a woman, and when changes were before you.
The duty you owed to her, you owe also to me."

I shall never be wanting in it, father."

You will marry — of course you will marry. You will
ask for my consent, like a dutiful, loving child ? "

I could not be happy without it, father," said Phoebe,
in a low tone. His voice was so benevolent, so imbued
with concern for her happiness, that her heart went out to
him.

That is a promise, my dear child ? "

Yes, dear father, it is a promise."

"That you will not marry without my consent. Phoebe,
this loving conversation is doing me good ; it is better than
all the doctors in the world : I am feeling almost well." He
folded her in his arms and kissed her. " Why, what is this ?
A Prayer-book. Your mother's, my dear, which we read
together when we went to church. She is looking down
upon us now ; she will guard you in your dreams tonight.
Kiss this sacred book, my child, and repeat what
you have promised — that you will not marry without my
consent."

Without hesitation Phoebe took the book in her hand and
kissed it, saying, as she did so, " Dear father, I will never

marry without your consent." She laid the book upon the
table, and burst into a flood of happy tears.

Good child, good child ! " said Miser Farebrother —
your sainted mother's child. Now go ; I am exhausted.
Good-night, Phoebe. May you have happy dreams."

Phoebe tenderly embraced him, and went to her room,
the happiest of happy girls. While Miser Farebrother
rubbed his hands, and muttered gleefully, ** Mr. Cornwall,
my cunning lawyer, and my dear sister and brother-in-law,
I think I have scotched your little scheme." He went to
bed in a perfectly happy frame of mind. He had done a
good night's work.

On a little table by Phoebe's bed were Fred Cornwall's
and Tom Barley's flowers. She kissed Fred's flowers
before she blew out the light, and even in the dark she
drew them to her lips, and so fell asleep with the roses at
her breast.

TOM BARLEY COMMENCES A NEW LIFE.

It's going to be performed tomorrow night, and master
and missis and all the family '11 be there. I 'herd it read.
It was beautiful. It give me the creeps, and it made me
laugh just as if I was being tickled to death ! "

The speaker was 'Amelia Jane; the person she was 'addressing
was Tom Barley; the place was the kitchen of
Mrs. Lethbridge's house in Camden Town ; and the subject
of 'Amelia Jane's remarks was Mr. Linton's comedy-drama
A Heart of Gold, the first representation of which
was to take place on the following evening at the Star
Theatre. The whole house was in a flutter of excitement
about it ; the cousins were in the sitting-room above, busy
over their frocks ; Fred Cornwall was there, and was to accompany
them to the theatre ; the ticket for the stage-box

was placed in a conspicuous position on the mantel-shelf,
VOL. II. 21

SO that it should not escape the attention of any chance
visitor ; the conversation was animated, and full of hopeful
anticipations of a great success for the poor dramatic
author ; and what was perhaps of greater importance than
all else, Bob was in the cast. He had taken the fatal
plunge, and through Kiss's influence had obtained an engagement
for the run of A Heart of Gold. The '* screw,"
as he called it, was small — ten shillings a week — but so
were the parts for which, to his great disgust, he was cast.
The more distinguished of the two characters he was to
enact was a footman, who had to make three announcements
of visitors of two words each — " Mrs. Portarlington "
(a long name, that was lucky ; almost as good as two or
three words rolled into one), " Mr. Praxis," " Lord Four-acres."
That was the extent of his part. He was greatly
disappointed, having had an idea that he would be called
upon to play one of the leading characters; but he was
taken to task for his presumption by Kiss, who told him he
might think himself lucky at being allowed to open his
mouth on the stage for the first twelve months. The other
character was a "guest," in which he was restricted to

dumb-show, and very little of that. He unfortunately took
it into his head to ask the stage-manager how he should
play this dumb guest, and the answer he received, to the
effect that he was to " look as little like an idiot as possible,"
somewhat dashed his budding aspirations. However,
Kiss gave him some very good advice, and he took
heart of grace, and rehearsed his six words on the stage,
and also at home in the bosom of his family. Twenty
times in the course of the night he would arrange the
scene in which he was to appear and speak his lines, and
when all was ready, would throw open the door and Call
*' Mrs. Portarlington," upon which Fanny, as the audience,
would burst into applause, which she kept up until Bob acknowledged
the reception by a bow. It was perhaps fortunate
that Kiss, breaking in upon the family rehearsal one
evening, took the nonsense out of Bob by showing him
how the thing should be done. "Make the announcements
quite quietly, my lad," said Kiss ; " and don't
attempt to spoil the picture by thrusting yourself forward.
Time enough for that when you have something to do.

Remember that 'modesty is young ambition's ladder'"

21—2

Library

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS

Of course I shall do as he tells me," said Bob, in confidence
to Phoebe ; " but did you ever know a profession in
which there was so much jealousy? " Kiss found an opportunity
to speak privately to the Lethbridges upon the subject
of giving Bob a reception when he appeared. " For
Heaven's sake," he said, " don't attempt it. Don't so
much as wag your head. You don't know what a first-night
audience is. Injudicious applause has ruined many
a promising piece." Aunt Lethh. sweet-natured as she was,
was a little inclined to agree with Bob as to the dreadful
amount of jealousy in the dramatic calling.

Tom Barley had not yet achieved his ambition of becoming
a policeman, but he had great hopes that in a short
time he would be pacing a beat, and in the vicinity of
Camden Town, too. Uncle Lethh was much respected,
and had some influence, which he was exerting on Tom's
behalf. It was 'Amelia Jane who had put the idea into
Tom's head. Between these two humble persons a confidence
had been long since established. There was no
idea of love-making — it had not entered either of their
heads — but when Tom had been in attendance on Phoebe

in London, he naturally found his way to the kitchen.
'Amelia Jane " took to him," as she said ; and he " took to
her," and a mutual liking sprang up. When Tom left
Miser Farebrother's service and Parksides, he came to London
and asked advice of Mr. and Mrs. Lethbridge, and they
succeeded in obtaining for him a few hours' employment
a day in a friend's garden. The remuneration was small ;
but Tom managed to rub along, and was always welcome
to a meal in the kitchen with 'Amelia Jane. This worthy
creature, the invariable cleanliness and brightness of whose
kitchen crowned her with glory, rather looked upon Tom
as a kind of son, whom it was her pleasure to protect, to
advise, and occasionally to scold. It mattered not that
she was rather younger than he, and that intellectually she
was in no way his superior. It was her pleasure to adopt
him, and she adopted him accordingly ; it was a pleasure
to him to be adopted, and he submitted with complete
satisfaction. It came to be a custom with him to spend
his evenings with 'Amelia Jane, and he gave a good return
for the hospitality extended to him. He proved himself a
perfect marvel in all practical matters relating to a house

If a window were broken, no need for a glazier; Tom took
the measure of the glass, purchased it for a trifle, and the
repair was made in less than no time. No need either for
locksmiths so long as Tom Barley was about ; he put locks
and handles to rights in a trice. Did a drain want looking
to, there was Tom ; a tile off the roof, there was Tom ; a
ceiling to whitewash, there was Tom ; a bit of painting todo,
there was Tom. Indeed, with respect to painting, he
made it his special business that the house should be bright
and clean inside and out : all the neighbours remarked what
a deal the Lethbridges were doing to their house, and how
nice and fresh it looked. Then there was the garden ;
Tom worked a miracle. A little care and pains, the expenditure
of a few pence now and then, and a large
amount of zeal and earnestness, converted the hitherto
rather shabby patches of ground in the front and rear of
the house into a perfect paradise. It was impossible that
such a handy, grateful, willing fellow should be otherwise
than welcome. " Upon my word, my dear," said Uncle
Lethh to his wife, " that Tom Barley is a wonder. There is
nothing he cannot do." A few bits of deal, which would have

been chopped up for fire-wood had not Tom put them to a
better use, a few nails, a pound of paint, and half a pint of
varnish, and there, presto ! were flower boxes for all the
windows, looking as sweet and fresh as the best in Mayfair.
He had a knack of making friends and of getting himself
liked. There was the green grocer, the proud possessor of
a pony and cart. Tom so ingratiated himself into the
favour of this tradesman by his cheerful ways, and by
doing for him, also, an odd job or two, very neatly and expeditiously,
that early one morning, there was Tom rattling
away with the pony and trap into the country, making' for
some ripe woods of his acquaintance, wherefrom he unlawfully
plucked roots and rich soil to beautify the garden of
his friends ; bringing back, of course, some acceptable
offerings to the green grocer, to insure the loan of the pony
and trap the next time he required them. For one who
aspired to be a policeman a transaction so nefarious cannot
well be defended ; but, after all, no one was the worse for
the innocent abstraction. 'Amelia Jane, be sure, was not
forgotten. He helped her to brighten her pots and pans ;
the little bit of electro-plate the Lethbridges possessed

twinkled with light as it lay upon the table-cloth ; the
carving-knives, for sharpness, were a treat to handle ; and
for polishing boots and shoes there was not Tom's equal in
the city of London. Heaven only knows where he got the
sweetness of his nature from ; its quality was so fine and
prompt, doing the exact thing that was required to be done
at exactly the right moment (which adds enormously to the
value of a service), that it could not fail to win friends for
him wherever kind hearts were to be found. And these, as
my experience goes, are beating multitudinously whichever
way you turn your face.

He had led a rough and happy life, but he had never
been so happy as at this time. The few clothes he possessed
were kept in order by 'Amelia Jane, who washed and mended
for him, and who, upon Sundays, made him so resplendent
that he was almost ashamed to be seen. A smile or a
friendly nod or greeting was always ready for him from the
Lethbridges and their friends, with whom Tom was quite
an institution, and Aunt Lethh grew into the habit of consulting
him and asking his advice when anything inside or
outside of the house was required to be done. Sweetest of

all was Phoebe's greeting upon her visits to her aunt. '* Well,
Tom, how are you ? " " Getting along splendidly, miss."
Simple words, but pearls of price, nevertheless, to Tom, who
went about his work more blithely the whole day afterward.
Of girls in her own station in life 'Amelia Jane might have
been jealous had Tom championed them, but she entirely
approved of his devotion to Fanny and his worship of
Phoebe. :

"She's a angel, Tom," said 'Amelia Jane.
"She is, 'Amelia Jane," responded Tom; "and I'd lay
down my life for her."

He was not neglected either in the way of education.
Ambitious as he was to become a public official, Mr. Lethbridge
knew how important it was that he should be able to
read and write fairly. He provided Tom with copy-books,
and made the young man go through a regular course of
pot-hooks and hangers ; and Aunt Lethh gave him reading
lessons three times a week; so that he made capital progress,
and was " getting quite a scholar," according to
'Amelia Jane.

This young lady attended to his education in other ways.

She was great in superstitions, which were to her a kind
of religion ; and instead of pious exordiums in frames to
remind her of her duty, she had scraps of card-board
hanging in sacred corners in her bedroom and kitchen,
upon which were written extracts from fortune-telling and
dream books, which, if they did not form for her the whole
duty of woman, went a long way towards it. She had an
apt pupil in Tom, whom she inoculated with her precautions
to woo good fortune and avert disaster.

As to cutting your nails, now. From her bedroom 'Amelia
Jane brought into the kitchen the written magic formula,
which Tom soon learnt by heart :

Cut your nails on Monday, cut them for wealth.
Cut them on Tuesday, cut them for health.
Cut them on Wednesday, cut them for news.
Cut them on Thursday', a new pair of shoes.
Cut them on Friday, cut them for sorrow.
Cut them on Saturday, see sweetheart tomorrow.
Cut them on Sunday, cut them for evil :
The whole of the week you'll be ruled by the "

What could be simpler and more direct? And in the
matter of nails, Tom abided by it.

Wot day in the week was you born ? " asked 'Amelia
Jane.

Blessed if I know," answered Tom.

"row could you be so careless," said 'Amelia Jane,
severely, "as not to get to know ? Then we could settle
it?"

Settle what, 'Amelia Jane ? "

Why, don't you know ? " she replied.

* Monday's child is fair of face.
Tuesday's child is full of grace.
Wednesday's child is loving and giving.
Thursday's child works hard for a living.
Friday's child is full of woe.
Saturday's child has far to go.
But the child that is born on Sabbath-day
Is bonnie and happy, and wise and gay.' " #

*' I say Thursday," said Tom, good-humouredly. " That's
the most likely day for me."

I say Sabbath-day," said 'Amelia Jane.

*that won't fit," said Tom. "Happy? Yes. And
gay, sometimes. But wise ? No, no, 'Amelia Jane ; not a
bit of it."

But in argument Tom was a child in the hands of 'Amelia
Jane, and she generally succeeded in compelling him to
subscribe to her views. She had a very effective method
of punishment if he persisted in holding out. She was, in

Tom's eyes, a very wonderful fortune-teller with the cards,
and to have his fortune told half a dozen times a week
became a perfect passion with him. Nothing pleased
'Amelia Jane more than the opportunity of laying out the
cards ; but she could successfully resist the temptation
when Tom was obstinate. It was in vain for him to
implore ; she was adamant. At length he would say,
"I give in, 'Amelia Jane; I give in." And out would
come a very old and terribly thumbed pack, and with a
solemn face Tom settled down to the onerous task of
cutting the cards again and again, in accordance with 'Amelia
Jane's complicated instructions. It was not at all material
that last night's fortune was diametrically opposite to the
fortune of to-night ; nor that last night it was a fair woman,
and to-night a dark one ; nor that last night Tom was to be
greeted by a coffin, and to-night by a baby. The point was
that the fortune was to be told, and that being done, no
reference was made to inconsistencies and contradictions.
'Amelia Jane and Tom would sit staring, open-mouthed, at
the finger of fate, whose smutty impress was to be found
on every card in the pack. She was telling his fortune

now, on the night before the production of A Heart of
Gold.

"The four of clubs, Tom. A strange bed."

Ah," said Tom. " I wonder where ? "

"The eight of spades. That's trouble, Tom."

He pulled a long face.

"And there's that dark woman, again. Who can she
be?"

*' I wonder, now ! " said Tom, turning over in his mind
every dark woman whom he could call to remembrance.

Well ! " cried 'Amelia Jane. " Did you ever ? 'post
look, Tom. The ten of 'parts and the four of 'parts next
door to each other. A wedding and a marriage bed. And
if there ain't the seven and the six of spades ! A doctor
and a birth ! "

Never ! " exclaimed Tom, aghast.

Here it is. There's no going again it. Oh, Tom !
here's tears ; and here's disappointment and sickness. Take
care of that dark woman ; she's up to no good."

"Ain't she?" cried Tom, energetically. "I'll keep a
sharp eye on her."

The fortune being ended, the cards were put away in a
drawer in the dresser, and 'Amelia Jane proceeded to discuss
lighter and less important matters.

'^^m^'

THE FIRST NIGHT OF " A HEART OF GOLD."

Three-quarters of an hour before it was time to start
for the Star Theatre, Fred Cornwall with a cab was at the
Lethbridges' door. There was no one but 'Amelia Jane to
receive him. Everybody was dressing, and 'Amelia Jane,
with a jug of hot water in her hand, informed Fred Cornwall
that " Miss Phoebe, sir, she do look most lovely," for which
she received a sixpenny bit.

Take these flowers up to the ladies, 'Amelia Jane," said
Fred, " and be careful you don't mix them. These are for
Mrs. Lethbridge ; these are for Miss Lethbridge j these for
Miss Farebrother ; and ask them how long they will be."

Lor', sir ! " exclaimed 'Amelia Jane, " now you're 'ere
they'll be down in no time."

That foolish boy," observed Fanny, when the flowers
were brought into the girls' bedroom, " will ruin himself.

You will have to check him, Phoebe. But what taste he
has ! Did you ever see anything more exquisite ? I knew
he would bring us flowers. And of course he has the cab
at the door, waiting ; he hasn't the least idea of the value
of money. I shall have to give him a good talking to, the
foolish, extravagant boy ! "

This was a new fashion of Fanny's — to put on matronly
airs and to talk of Fred Cornwall as a foolish boy. He was
greatly amused by it, and he listened to her lectures with a
mock-penitential air, which caused her to deliver her counsels
with greater severity.

"You are a model of punctuality," he said, as Fanny
sailed into the room.

"And you're a modeller," retorted Fanny gaily. "How
do I look ? " turning slowly round.

Beautiful ! " exclaimed Fred, advancing eagerly as

Phoebe entered.

Oh, of course," cried Fanny. " Come here, Phoebe,"

taking her cousin's hand. " He shan't admire one without

the other."

With looks and words of genuine admiration, Fred

scanned and criticised the girls, who, truly, for loveliness,
would take the palm presently in the Star Theatre.

That's very sweet of you," said Fanny, when he came
to the end of an eloquent speech, " and you may kiss my
hand. But don't come too near me ; I mustn't be crushed ;
and Phoebe mustn't, either. Oh, my dear, beautiful
mother ! " And the light-hearted girl ran to her mother,
who at this moment entered the room.

Aunt Lethh was the picture of a refined, gentle-hearted
sweet-mannered lady. She had her best gown on, of course ;
and so cleverly had she managed that it looked, if 'not
quite new, at least almost as good as new. She gazed with
wistful tenderness at her daughter and niece, and kissed
them affectionately ; then she greeted Fred, and thanked
him for the flowers.

Phoebe and Fanny had already thanked him, and when
he gave Uncle Lethh a rose for his coat (he himself wearing
one), Fanny whispered to Phoebe that she had not a fault
to find with him.

"What I like especially about Fred," said Fanny, 'Ms

that when he does a thing he does it thoroughly. Did
VOL. II. 22

you notice how pleased dear mamma was when he gave
papa the rose ? He could not have delighted her more.
You lucky girl ! "

Altogether Fred's position in that affectionate family was
an enviable one, and if he was not a proud and happy
young fellow as he rattled away with them to the Star Theatre,
he ought to have been. Any gentleman in London would
have been happy to be in his shoes.

Bob, of course, had gone early to the theatre, convinced
that the success of A Heart of Gold depended upon the
way in which he would announce " Mrs. Portarlington,"
Mr. Praxis," and " Lord Fouracres."

There was a great house. The manager had taken more
than usual pains to obtain the attendance of the critic of
every influential paper. Fred, who knew a great many of
them, pointed them out to the eager girls, and described
their peculiarities and the qualities for which they were
famous. Mr. Linton, although he had written seven or eight
pieces, all of which had been played, was not yet looked
upon as a dramatist of mark ; some of the best judges had
declared that he had a great deal in him, and that he would

one day surprise the public, and take London captive by
the production of a play of the greatest merit. This
opinion was more or less shared by most of the dramatic
writers on the press, and they came to-night prepared to
deal generously toward him if he showed himself deserving
of it. There were others who came prepared for contingencies
: theatrical frequenters of pit and gallery, regular
*' first-lighters," who knew by sight every critic on the London
press, and every notability in the city. Before the music
commenced they kept up a buzz of conversation, pointing
out the celebrities, and tiptoeing over their neighbours to
catch a sight of the great men. " It's quite like a party,"
observed Aunt Lethh, as she saw the friendly greeting and
salutations of those who were in the habit of meeting on
such occasions. Then came a cheer or two and a clapping
of hands, which was taken up gradually in all the cheaper
parts of the house. A favourite actress had entered a private
box, and the enthusiastic play-goers were showing
their regard for her. She smiled, and turned to the pit
with a pleasant nod, which added to the delight of her

admirers. They compared notes : " Did you see her in

22-2

so-and-so ? Wasn't she stunning? Ah, but she was better
than all in such-and-such. What does she play in next ? "
Hungry and eager and ever-ready are the theatrical public
to show favour to established favourites ; beloved by them
are the actor and actress who have given them pleasure ;
and thus much being acknowledged, it is strange that the
dramatic author should hold in their regard what is at best
but an equivocal position. They call him out when the
curtain falls to hoot or applaud him, and it is a moot point
which of the two processes pleases them more. It was of
this moment to come that Mr. Linton was thinking as he
sat hidden in a box behind the curtains, his fingers playing
convulsively on the palms of his hands. To-night, he believed,
was to make or mar him. More hung upon the
success of A Heart of Gold than the public was aware of.
He was poor, very poor ; his wife was nursing a sick child,
for whom the doctor had prescribed what it was not in
Linton's power to afford. Would the result of this night's
work put him in funds, cause him to be in demand, and
make the world bright for him ? He saw an American
manager in the stalls, and he knew if A Heai-t of Gold was

successful that he would at once receive an offer from him
for the American rights. That meant money — meant, perhaps,
the life of his child. He had sat by the bedside at
home till the last minute, and when he kissed his little one,
had whispered, " Wish father good luck, my dear ! " " Good
luck, father ! " murmured the child, and kept his arms
entwined round the loving father's neck so tight that they
had to be loosened by gentle force. Then he had held his
good wife in his embrace for a moment, and she pressed
him fondly to her ; he could not speak, he was almost
choked ; his lips trembled so that he could scarcely kiss
her ; and he bore with him, as he ran out of the room, the
memory of the patient, wistful face, which would have been
more cheerful had their circumstances been better. He
saw it now as he sat hidden behind the curtains in the
private box ; he saw his little child in bed, pining away.
Oh, God ! " he muttered, " if they but knew ! if they but
knew ! "

*' Who is in that box? " asked Fanny. " Not a soul can
be seen ; but — there, there it is again — the curtain just
moved, and some one peeped through."

That is the author's box," said Fred. " I have no
doubt Mr. Linton is there."

*' Poor gentleman ! " said Aunt Lethh. ** How anxious he
must be ! I wish we had him here with us."

** They prefer to be alone, as a rule," said Fred, somewhat
grimly, " on the first nights of their pieces."

The leader of the band entered the orchestra, gloved for
the honourable occasion. People began to seat themselves ;
the music was lively and appropriate, and put them in good
humour. Linton gnawed his under-lip, and leaning forward
suddenly, almost betrayed his presence. The curtain
rose, and A Heart of Gold commenced its perilous career.

Is there any need to describe it at length here ? It would
be but a recapitulation of that with which every old play-goes
is familiar, for this was a night to be remembered. Sufficient
that the comedy-drama opened well and won the
sympathies and the favour of the house. Kiss was greeted
with a rear of applause, and outshone himself. The act-drop
descended on the first act, and there was a general
call. Linton brightened up ; he hastened to the back of
the scenes through a little door at the side of his box, and

nodded gaily at the manager ; but that astute person of
long experience merely looked at him, and said, " Wait."
He passed on, and Linton, rather dashed, went back to
his box.

In the second act Bob made his appearance, and very
bravely announced " Mrs. Portarlington," and his family
declared that it was a most successful debut. It was.
with difficulty that they refrained from applauding him,
and if the truth must be told they did patter slightly with
their feet, but as not a soul in the house responded to this
initial movement, they did not continue it.

How was it that, after this, A Heart of Gold began ta
trail off? The Lethbridges could not account for it, nor
could many other sympathizing friends in the house. It
was pretty, the language was touching, the situations were
sufficiently good, and yet it is a fact that from the opening
of the second act the favourable impression created faded
away, and was replaced by a feeling of weariness and indifference.
Behind the scenes, where Linton did not put
in an appearance till the play was over, the manager knitted
his brows, and Kiss looked grave ; while in his private box

the poor dramatic author was gnawing his heart and thinking
of his wife and child. The Lethbridges were in consternation;
they strove in vain to stimulate the applause ;
the audience resented the attempt, and commenced to hiss.
This stirred the indignation of the more favourably disposed,
and they stamped and clapped their hands violently.
The fools I " muttered the manager, as he stood at the
side wings. " Why don't they leave off applauding ? If
they go on, there'll be a row." His prognostication was
verified. The hissing grew louder and more frequent, and
when the curtain finally fell a perfect storm broke out.
It was, however, s tilled for a few minutes by a spirit of
'toleration toward old favourites among the company, and
these were called before the curtain and applauded. Then
came calls for " Author ! Author ! " The unfortunate man
had made his way on to the stage, and was wandering about
with a white face and a mind almost crazed with distracted
thought. The actors and actresses scarcely dared to speak
to him ; some looked upon him with positive displeasure,
and turned from him to their dressing-rooms, saying as they
went : " The notice will be up tomorrow. A nice slating

we shall get in the papers!" Kiss stepped to Linton's
side, and laid his hand kindly on the author's shoulder.
Linton raised his eyes pitifully, and a sound like a sob
escaped from him. Meanwhile the hooting and hissing and
the cruel cries for "Author ! Author !" continued.

Oh ! " sighed Aunt Lethh, " how dreadful ! how dreadful
! I shall never have courage to come to another first
night."

She was on the verge of tears herself, as though it was
one very dear to her who was being damned. In a little
while the audience waxed into fury. " Author ! Author !
Author ! " rang through the house ; and there were malicious
ones among the auditors who enjoyed the fun. Five
minutes, six minutes, seven minutes passed in this way.
And still the poor author paced the stage, in and out the
wings.

"Go on," said the manager to him, "or they'll tear up
the benches I '"

Linton did not answer. The cries redoubled in fierceness.

Author ! Author ! Author ! Hoo-00-oo ! Hoo-00-oo !
Author ! Author ! "

Damn you ! " cried the manager to Linton ; "go on like
a man, can't you, and get it over ! It will cost me another
hundred pounds if you don't !"

The noise now really began to assume the preliminary
features of a riot ; the malcontents were not only angry,
they were enraged.

How will it end ? How will it end ? " sighed Aunt
Lethh, clasping her hands.

He ought to come on," observed Fred Cornwall,
gravely.

Suddenly the green curtain was shaken, drawn aside, and
Linton stepped in front. He made but two steps forward,
and was greeted with volleys of hisses and derisive laughter.
He was about to retire, when, swayed by an uncontrollable
impulse, he altered his intention, and, advancing swiftly
into the centre of the stage, stood before the audience, and
held up his trembling hands.

"What is he going to do now?" said the manager,
watching him from the side. "He has his gruelling; why
don't he come off ? "

Linton's unexpected movement produced an instant

"Why have you insisted that I should come before you?
In order that you may hoot me ? Do you think I do not
feel with sufficient keenness that my effort to-night has
been a failure ? It is an effort, at least, which has occupied
me for many hard-working months ; and that the result
should be what it is — is it not punishment enough ? Are
you not satisfied with killing a man? Must you also
torture him ? There is a side to this matter which may
not recommend itself to you, because it is human. An
author is not entirely an abstract entity. He is also a
man. In my case he is a husband and a father. I am not
appealing to you for mercy — I would scorn to do it ; I am
simply stating a fact. We are not very rich at home, and
cannot afford more than two rooms to live in. When I
left my wife this evening to come here she was nursing a
delicate child — our only child — for whom the doctor had
ordered a certain course which we were not exactly able to

carry out, because of the slender purse. I hoped to be
able to take home to her news which would cheer her
heart, and perhaps save the life of our little one. How
anxiously is she awaiting me, counting the moments, and
fondly hoping that my brows are being crowned with
success ! You are angry, indignant with me, but your loss
is a trifle compared with mine. I take with me this night
from the theatre a heavier load than yours. I can say no
more ; I retire from your presence with no light heart, and
as I go, continue to hoot me ! It will be manly ! "

He bowed with an ashen face, and was slowly leaving
the stage amidst a dead silence, when he paused and spoke
again :

There have been instances when first-night verdicts
have been reversed, and when what looked like a failure
has been worked into a success. On my knees to-night I
shall pray to God that this may be the case with my play !
Perhaps He will hear me ! "

*' My boy ! " cried the manager, slapping Linton on the
back when he got behind the curtain. " My boy ! a
wonderful speech ! Wonderful ! I never heard anything

*' Don't speak to me ! Don't speak to me ! " said Linton,
and he crept from the theatre, sobbing as though his heart
were breaking.

si [^

DIPLOMATIC FANNY.

The audience filed slowly out of the theatre, discussing
the unexpected and unprecedented climax with a certain
hushed animation. Many of those who had been the noisiest
veered round to the side of the unfortunate author, and
were truly ashamed of themselves for so cruelly baiting a
man who was down, while a few of the severest judges endeavoured
unsuccessfully to stem the tide of sympathy
which the novel speech had set flowing. " What have we
to do with feelings ? " they asked. " What have we to do
with a man's private circumstances? We "come here to
pass a verdict, and we pass it. If it is favourable, the
author gets the benefit of it ; if unfavourable, he must
bear the brunt." These stern ones, however, were in a
decided minority, and failed to make converts ; despite of
which the general opinion was that this had been a first

night upon which it was worth while to be present. "I
wouldn't have missed it for anything," was said by friends
and foes.

This was not the kind of sentiment which animated Mrs.
Lethbridge and her party ; their hearts were filled with
pity for Mr. Linton, and Aunt Lethh experienced something
like horror at the behaviour of the audience. Her thoughts
travelled to the humble home which the author had pictured,
to the anxious wife and the sick child. Tears
flooded her eyes, and she could scarcely see the beloved
forms which pressed around her.

The crush is over now," said Fred Cornwall ; " we shall
be able to get out in comfort."

At this moment Bob appeared, having made haste to
dress and join his family, according to previous arrangement.
He was in a fever of excitement, and full of the
eventful night. " Everybody is talking of it behind the
scenes," he said. " Such a thing has never occurred before,
and there is no telling what will be the result. Opinions
are divided. Some of the actors say the dramatic critics are
much too wide-awake to be taken in by such a trick ; others

say that after Mr, Linton's speech they can scarcely pitch
into the piece." And then Bob added, rather proudly, " I
did what could to save it."

"That you did," said Fanny enthusiastically. "You
acted beautifully. Didn't the manager praise you ? "

"Well, no," replied Bob; "but then he had so many
other things to think of. At all events, my first appearance
on the stage is not likely to be forgotten. It is a great
night."

A great night ! " sighed Mrs. Lethbridge. " Mr.
Linton has gone home, I suppose ? "

I don't know," said Bob. " Mr. Kiss is in a dreadful
way about him. A few minutes after Mr. Linton ran out
of the theatre Mr. Kiss ran after him ; he changed his dress
in no time, and as it was, he ran off with his * make-up ' on
his face."

Mr. Lethbridge observed his wife's agitation and distress,
and he beckoned Bob aside.

Do you know where Mr. Linton lives ? " he
asked.

Yes," replied Bob. " He sent me to his rooms one

day, before rehearsal commenced, for an alteration in a
scene he had left behind him."

He gave his father the address ; they were now in the
lobby of the theatre. Mr. Lethbridge told Bob to go for a
couple of four-wheelers.

I'll go with you," said Fred Cornwall, and then he
turned to Mr. Lethbridge. " Will not one cab do ? We
can all squeeze into it."

He was rather afraid that Mr. Lethbridge did not intend
that he should accompany them home to Camden Town.

No," said Mr. Lethbridge. '* We must have two. You
and Bob can see the girls home. My wife and I are going
another way."

Fred looked at him, and understood. " Come along,
Bob," he said.

Then Mr. Lethbridge turned to his wife ; " You and I
will go and see if we can do anything for Mrs. Linton.
Bob has given me the address."

Mrs. Lethbridge pressed her husband's hand ; she was

deeply grateful, but it was no surprise to her that he had

anticipated and furthered the wish of her heart. Had he
VOL. 11, 23

not done so on innumerable occasions in the course of
their wedded life ?

May we come with you ? " asked Fanny.

No, my dear," said her father ; " the fewer the better.
We must do nothing that will look like impertinent intrusion.
Your mother is an old woman, and may take the
liberty. While she is with Mrs. Linton I shall remain outside
in the street."

My mother is not an old woman," said Fanny, in
tender reproof. " She is an angel of goodness, and so are
you, papa."

Uncle Lethh smiled rather sadly, but he had no time to
contradict Fanny, because there were Fred and Bob, with
the announcement that the cabs were waiting.

We shall get home as soon as possible," said Mr.
Lethbridge, as he and his wife took their seats in their
cab.

We shall wait up for you," cried Fanny. " Oh, dear ! "

This ejaculation was caused by the sudden appearance of
Jeremiah Pamflett. He had been in the theatre, in the pit,
and had been all the night watching the private box

occupied by the Lethbridge party. He had taken note of

Fred Cornwall's attentions to Phoebe and of the young girl's

blushes, and he had formed his conclusions. Once during

the evening he had endeavoured to make his way to the

private box ; but as he had only a pit check to show, he was

peremptorily sent back. His humour was malicious and

sour, but some crumbs of comfort fell to his share through

the failure of A Heart of Gold. Upon the success of the

piece depended, he knew, the payment of the bill for three

hundred pounds which Mr. Lethbridge had signed, and the

prospect of selling up Phoebe's uncle, or of showing him

mercy at Phoebe's intercession, was very gratifying to him.

He felt that it strengthened his chances with the girl he

intended should be his wife. " I will have her," he thought,

"whether she likes it or not. Miser Farebrother is bound

to me, and there shall be no backing out. He can't back

out : I've got his signature to his written promise, and Mr.

Lawyer may go to the devil. I'll wring his heart ! I'll

wring all their hearts ! " To such a nature as Jeremiah's

this was an agreeable contemplation, and he revelled in it,

setting every tender glance that passed between Phoebe and

23-2

Fred in the private box to the account which at no distant
time he should commence to square up. It was a delight
to him that A Heart of Gold had failed. He yelled in
derision at the top of his voice when the curtain fell, and

patted the breast of his coat exultantly, in the pocket of
which Mr. Lethbridge's acceptance was safely deposited.
It was as good as a love-token to him ; it gave him assurance
of success in his wooing. When the dramatic author
finished his speech and had left the stage, Jeremiah tried to
push through the mob in the pit ; but, in his eagerness, it
was his misfortune to hustle rather roughly a peppery
individual, who straightway pitched into him. A row
ensued, and a fight, which left Jeremiah with a black eye
and clothes much disordered. This had delayed his progress
considerably, and his confusion of mind did not help
him. All this, of course, went down on the account between
him and Phoebe and her friends, and was debited against
them. Clear of the theatre he had hunted for them in
every direction but the right one, and it was only when they
were getting into the cabs that he discovered them.
Oh dear ! " exclaimed Fanny.

How d'ye do ? how d'ye do ? " cried Jeremiah, poking
his head in through the open window. ** Stop a minute,
cabby ; friends of mine. Must first shake hands with
father and mother. Ah, Mr. Lethbridge, how are you ?
Glorious fun, wasn't it ? Saw you all in a private box ;
couldn't get at you. Beggar wouldn't let me pass. I say,
Mrs. Lethbridge, why don't you invite me to come and see
you ? It would only be doing the polite. Phoebe's father
and me — why, we're almost partners ! "

"We shall be very pleased," said Mrs. Lethbridge faintly.

Of course you will. Thank you ; I'll come. No occasion
to give me the address ; I know where you live. I say,
Mr. Lethbridge, rather a crusher, isn't this, to our friends
Kiss and Linton ? Hope our little affair will be all right ?
You're in a hurry to be off, I see. Well, good-night ! Lookout
for me soon. You might send me an invite, so that I
may be sure of finding you at home. Phoebe will tell you
where her father's office in London is ; I'm always there.
Did you pay for your private box ? "

"Mr. Linton was good enough to send it to us," said
Mr. Lethbridge.

Was he ? Might have been good enough to send mean
order, considering all things ; but / had to pay : left me
out in the cold, the beggar did. Never mind ; I'll remember
him for it. Well, good-night ; so glad to see you ! Don't
forget the invitation."

He returned to the cab in which the young people were.
Fred and Fanny were for driving away before he came
back, but Phoebe begged them not to do so, saying that Mr.
Pamflett was her father's manager, and that it would make
them both angry to slight him.

** Here I am again," said Jeremiah vivaciously ; his
remarks to Mr. and Mrs. Lethbridge had almost put him
in good humour, " like a bad penny. You look as if you'd
just taken one, Mr. Cornwall ; and you too. Miss Lethbridge.
How do you do, Miss Phoebe ? " He thrust his
hand into the cab, and Phoebe was compelled to give him
hers, which he pressed and retained, in huge enjoyment of
Fred's wrathful glances. " How blooming you look ! I
saw your father to-day at Parksides ; he told me you were
on a visit to Camden Town. I have some business with
him tomorrow. Shall I give him your love ? But I daresay

you will be at Parksides before I am. You've no idea
how I miss you when you're not there ! A jolly night,
hasn't it been ? You seem rather fidgety, Miss Lethbridge."

We want to get home," said Fanny. " It costs money
to keep the cab waiting."

And I'm not worth it. What a pity you think so ! But
soon you'll think differently, perhaps — soon we'll surprise
you. Miss Phoebe and I. Some people would say * Miss
Phoebe and me ; ' but I've been educated, and know how to
speak properly, and how to behave properly. There isn't a
lawyer in London can get ahead of me, and that we'll prove
before long ', won't we. Miss Phoebe ? I must be going now.
Thank you so much for your kind reception. It is more
than kind : it is gracious and condescending. Who pays
for the cab ? But what a question to ask ! Of course the
swell of the party. I'm glad I've cost him nothing. Let a
lawyer alone for knowing what's what. The cab regulations
say, 'For the first fifteen minutes completed, 6^.' And I've
detained you" — he consulted his watch here — "just thirteen
minutes and three-quarters, so the driver can't demand anything.
Good-night all ; happy dreams."

He went off chuckling, eminently satisfied with himself
for the part he had played. He knew that he had left a
sting behind.

Out of consideration for Phoebe, bearing in mind that
her father and Jeremiah Pamflett were hand and glove,
Fred Cornwall said nothing of that worthy young man to
Phoebe. Fanny, however, was boiling over, and she was not
the kind of person to keep her opinions to herself.

Oh ! " she said, " I wish I was a man ! "

What for, Fan ? " asked Bob.

Just for one little half-hour a man," said Fanny ; " to
go after that reptile, and give him what he deserves ! He
has got one black eye already ; he should have two. I'd
beat him to a jelly ; I'd pull every hair out of his head ;
I'd — I'd — " She grew so indignant that she could not
proceed.

"Shall I go and give him a thrashing?" asked Bob.
He was not of a truculent nature, but his blood was
roused.

Stop where you are. Bob," said Fred Cornwall quietly.
*' It is best to keep out of difficulties with such as he. I

beg your pardon, Miss Farebrother ; I did not mean to
say it."

"You have said what is right," said Phoebe, in a low tone.
*' It is I who should ask pardon of you for subjecting you
to insults."

She burst into tears, and Fanny instantly took her in her
a-rms. The men were silent and grave, and not another
word was spoken till they arrived at Camden Town. Fred
paid the cabman liberally, and the party entered the house,
Phoebe and Fanny going up to their bedroom, and Fred and
Bob finding refuge in the dining-room, where supper was
laid out for them. As they went upstairs Fanny called out
to the young men, "We shall not be long. Don't go away,
Fred." He had no intention of doing so; he paced the
room in deep thought, while Bob, who, in the absence of
his father, took upon himself the duties of host, ran down
to the larder for beer. Returning with it, he poured out
two foaming glasses, and handed one to Fred.
Here's luck," said Bob.
Here's luck," said Fred.
Fred emptied his glass in one pull, and when he put it

on the table there was a flush on his face and a soft light in
his eyes. He had formed a most important resolution.
Presently he heard Fanny's voice calling to him, and he
went out to her in the passage. That diplomatic young
lady received him with her finger on her lips, and she
closed the dining-room door before she spoke.

She is in there," she whispered, pointing to the drawing-room.
" I lit the gas."

Does she wish to see me ? " asked Fred, with an exact
following of her cautious movements.

She didn't say so," replied Fanny, " but I thought you
would like to go to her."

Yes," said Fred, " I will go. You are my best friend,
Fanny."

I am a true one, at all events. Oh, Fred ! " There
was nothing teasing or wilful or capricious in the tone in
which these two simple words were uttered. It was fraught
with wistful, tremulous feeling, and her eyes were humid
with tears.

God bless you, Fanny ! " '

And you, Fred. No one shall come in."

Phoebe looked up as he entered, expecting to see Fanny.
He sat down by her side, and said :

I have been anxious about you. Fanny told me you
were here. You are better ? "

"Yes." She would have risen and made an attempt to
leave him, not out of coquetry, but maiden modesty, but
she had not the strength.

This has been a sad night," said Fred, " but it may
prove to be the happiest one in my life, if my heart has not
deceived me. May I say to you what my heart dictates ? "
He construed her silence into assent, and proceeded f " I
did not intend to speak yet awhile ; I thought I would
first make my position — my worldly position — firmer than
it is ; but I can no longer be silent. Since that happy
evening at Parksides I have not been idle, and though my
position is not yet quite assured, I am very hopeful ; I have
really made progress, and I think I can see my way. I
have gained some good friends who will help me along, and
once the ball is set fairly rolling, it only depends upon a man's
ability and industry to keep it rolling till it reaches a home
which he can call his own, and where it may be his bright

fortune to enjoy the sweetest blessings of life. Industry I
have, and I mean to work harder than ever ; and I am told
I have ability. Whatever be the measure of it, I am sure
it will help me to some kind of success ; and if the home
of which I speak be not at first a very grand one, it will be
grand enough for happiness. I ask you to have faith in my
earnestness and truth. I love you with my whole heart
and soul ; I will work for you with my whole heart and
soul ; I will shield and protect you ; I will be true and
faithful to you. Will you not answer me ? Will you not
speak to me ? *'

She raised her eyes timidly to his, and in the tender light
that shone therein he saw his answer. He clasped her in
his arms ; her pulses thrilled with ineffable rapture.

*' Phoebe ! "

Fred ! " Her voice was like the whisper of a rose, filling
space with sweet music.

You will be my wife, Phoebe ? "

Yes."

Say you love me ! "

I love you ! "

Thereafter there was silence awhile, and as Phoebe lay
enfolded in her lover's arms, a high resolve entered his soul
to be worthy of the priceless blessing of her love. And
she ? Her soul was also stirred by a prayer that she might
be able to make herself worthy of him — her hero, her life !

We must go in now, Fred. They will think it so
strange ! "

I am not so sure," he said, and kept her still in his
embrace.

Why are you not so sure, Fred ? Indeed, indeed they
will!"

Do you know, my darling " — he paused, and repeated
softly, " my daring ! — my very, very own ! " And then he
lost himself, and forgot for a moment what he had intended
to say.

"Well, Fred?"

Well what, Phoebe ? "

You were saying, ' Do you know — ' "

Oh, yes. I said, ' Do you know.' What came afterward
? "

My darling ! " she said, in a delicious whisper.

It was enough to make him forget himself again ; and he
did ; but he presently took up the thread.

Do you know, my darling, I have an idea that Fanny
sent me here for a purpose — bless her kind heart ! "

For what purpose ? "

*• For this." He pressed her closer to him.

Oh, Fred, she never could ! "

Couldn't she ? What ! Our Fanny, our dear cousin,
not be equal to such a scheme ! Upon my word, she
deserves — what she shall get when we go to her. Thinking
seriously over the matter, Phoebe — and I never was more
serious in my life than I am now, my own ! — I have no
doubt that she had everything already planned out in her
pretty little head."

Fred, we really must go."

*' Not till— "

Till what, Fred ? "

He held her face between his hands, and put his lips to
hers. Thus they pledged love and faith to each other, for
weal or woe.

Well, you people ! " cried Fanny, as they entered.

We are not half ready for you ; and here you come
breaking in upon us so suddenly and quickly — just as Bob
and I were talking secrets — weren't we, Bob ? Well, I
wonder at your impudence, Fred ! Oh, my dear, my
dear ! "

The affectionate girl's arms were round Phoebe's neck,
hugging her close, and her gay voice had drifted into tears.
For Fred had kissed her, and Phoebe too ; and somehow or
other, in these kissings the news of Phoebe's and Fred's
engagement was conveyed without ever a word being spoken
about it. How Fanny danced round Phoebe, and how's
commanded Fred to kiss her again, and how she kissed him
unblushingly more than once, and how she hugged Phoebe
again and again, and how her face flushed and her eyes
sparkled, and how she got her hair rumpled in the most
unaccountable manner, and how she seized Bob and waltzed
round the room with him, dodging the chairs and tables in
the most marvellous way, and how, finally, she fell upon the
sofa, out of breath, not knowing whether to laugh or to cry,
and therefore doing a little of both ! — all this must be
imagined, for it is impossible to describe.

"And oh, my dears, my dears!" she cried, "I hope
you'll be happy for ever and ever ! "

For brilliant impulsiveness there never was such a girl.

But what had come over Bob ? Had he been so schooled
and lectured by Fanny that, metaphorically speaking, he
had not a leg to stand upon, or had he already transferred
his affections from Phoebe to some fair nymph at the Star
Theatre, that he submitted himself to Phoebe's kiss — knowing
the meaning of it — with a fairly good grace, with only
just a shade of sulkiness in recognition of her perfidy, and
that he shook hands with Fred with no expressed intention
of having his life's blood ? However it was, these things
happened ; and if a happier or more agreeable quartette
ever sat down to a supper table, the present chronicler
would like to be present on the occasion.

-^-^ — o^o — •%--H^

THE POOR author's HOME.

Outside the humble house in Lambeth in which Mr. Linton
and his family occupied two modest rooms — and those
not the best — Uncle Lethh paced the lonely street. There
was not a soul about, with the exception of the policeman,
with whom Uncle Lethh exchanged a few words explaining
his presence ; but although that functionary expressed himself
satisfied, he still kept an eye upon the stranger in the
neighbourhood. Aunt Lethh was upstairs with Mrs. Linton ;
the unfortunate author had not returned home, as Aunt
Lethh, running breathlessly down to the street door, had
informed her husband ; and Uncle Lethh was now looking
anxiously for his appearance. It was out of a feeling of
delicacy that he had not entered the house ; he knew that
the intrusion of a strange man would have alarmed Mrs.

Linton, and have marred the kind errand upon which he
VOL. II. 24

and his wife were engaged. So he waited outside, Hastening
for footsteps, and mentally praying that Mr. Linton had
done nothing rash.

Aunt Lethh and Mrs. Linton were already friends, and it
seemed to the poor author's wife as if she had known her
kind visitor for years. It was not without trepidation that
Aunt Lethh had introduced herself to Mrs. Linton, but she
allowed no signs of this feeling to appear in her manner :
she was cheerful and unobtrusive, and her sweet face
and pleasant voice conveyed hope to the heart of the
anxious wife.

*' I am a friend of your husband," Aunt Lethh said, " and
I hope you will forgive me for calling upon you at so late
an hour. My name is Lethbridge."

"Yes," said Mrs. Linton ; " my husband has often spoken
of you and your family. He was desirous that we should
become personally acquainted some time since ; but " —
she paused here ; the sentence, completed, would have been
an avowal of poverty.

But," said Aunt Lethh, taking up the words, with a sweet
smile, " you have been so busy, and your husband has been

SO much engaged, that you could not find time. It is just
the way with us at home. The days are really not long
enough for one's cares and duties."

Are you alone ? '• asked Mrs. Linton.

No ; my husband is below, waiting for me. He would
not come up, it is so late. I should not have had the
courage to come had I not heard that your little boy was
not well. Dear little fellow ! You won't mind my kissing
you, will you, sweet ? "

She was by the bedside, bending over the lad, who was
awake, and who, when she lowered her face to his, put his
little arms round her neck. In Aunt Lethh's beautiful ways
there was an affectionate magnetism which won the hearts
of old and young. Mrs. Linton burst into tears.

Don't cry, my dear," said Aunt Lethh ; " we are going

to be very good friends, and everything will be bright and

happy. Ah ! it is only wives and mothers like ourselves

who know what real trouble is ; but then we are able to bear

it, thank God ! It is love's duty. To be strong and reliant

and hopeful will help to bring back the roses to your little

boy's cheeks."

24—2

All the time she was speaking she was either at the bedside
or doing unobtrusively something housewifely about
the room, which made her presence there like an angel's
visit.

Where did you hear that our little boy was ill ? " asked
Mrs. Linton.

"At the theatre."

"Ah! you have been there?" Mrs. Linton's agitation
was so great that her hand rose instinctively to her heart.
It was a thin white hand, eloquent with weakness and suffering.
" Tell me, tell me about the piece ! I expected my
husband home by this time. If it was a success he would
have flown here."

"My dear," said Aunt Lethh, with a bright look, '"'I am
not an author's wife, and therefore I cannot speak with
authority ; but I can understand how much there must be
to talk about at the theatre after the first representation of a
play. Perhaps some trifling alterations to make, or a little dialogue
to be strengthened or shortened, and there is nothing
like taking these things in hand on the spur of the moment.
That is business, and must be attended to, must it not ? I

hardly know whether I am right or wrong in what I say,
but it seems to me so."

You are right," sighed Mrs. Linton ; " there are always'
a great many alterations to make in my husband's plays. I
used to go on the first nights, but the excitement had such
an effect upon me that I wait now to know whether they
are likely to be a success or not. It is an anxious life,
waiting, waiting, waiting for what, perhaps, will never come.
It is wearing my poor husband out ; and he works so hard
so earnestly — " »

All the more need for courage, my dear," said Aunt
Lethh, taking Mrs. Linton's hand and patting it hopefully.
" Bright fortune, when it comes, will be all the
sweeter for a little delay. It will come, my dear, it
will ! "

*' Perhaps too late ! " murmured the mother, her apprehensive
eyes travelling to the bed upon which her sick child
was lying.

You must not say that ; you must not think it. When
your husband returns you must be cheerful and strong ; he
will require such help after his anxious night. And what a

beautiful play he has written ! How proud you must be of

him ! "

With such like affectionate interchange of confidences
did the time pass in Mrs. Linton's room ; but Aunt Lethh's
heart almost fainted within her at the lengthened absence
of the author. No less anxious was Uncle Lethh in the
street below. Two or three times, on some pretence or
other, Aunt Lethh ran down to him to satisfy herself that he
was all right, hoping on each occasion that she would return
in the company of Mr. Linton. She and her husband were
afraid to give expression to their fast-growing fears. All
that Uncle Lethh said was : " Don't hurry away. You must
not leave till Mr. Linton comes home. He will be here

soon."

But more than an hour elapsed before the author
appeared, and Uncle Lethh breathed a " Thank God ! '*
when he saw him turn the corner of the street, in the company
of Kiss. Uncle Lethh hastened toward them to
explain the meaning of his presence, but Mr. Linton did
not give him time to utter a word. His agitation
was so great, he had been so wrought up by the incidents

of the night, that he saw a tragedy in the
surprise*

My God ! " he cried ; and but for the support afforded
by Kiss's strong arm he would have fallen to the ground.
*' My wife ! my child ! "

Are well," said Uncle Lethh, quickly. " My wife is with
yours, and they are waiting for you. Don't take it ill of
us ; we are here in true friendship and sympathy. Keep
up your heart ; all will turn out right."

That's what I've been telling him," said Kiss, heartily ;
*' and if ever there was a bright omen, this is one. Now go
up to your wife, like a good fellow, and put on a cheerful face.
We shall rub through. Never lose sight of the silver Using,
my boy ; it is shining now in your room on the faces of two
good women ! "

Mr. Linton, unable to speak, pressed Uncle Lethh's hand,
and passed into the house, leaving his friends in the
street.

How kind of you ! " murmured Kiss. " I intended to
go up with Linton, but now your good wife is there my
presence is not required. I have had a dreadful time with

him. When he rushed out of the theatre I hardly knew
what to think, being knocked over, so to speak, by the
strange speech he made. I was not the only one ; it was so
novel, so thoroughly unexpected. There is just the chance
it may be the talk of the town, and if that happens it will
bring money to the treasury. I ran up to my dressing-room
for a quick change, and it suddenly occurred to me
that in the state Linton was in it would be as well if he had
a friend by his side. Quick as thought I left the theatre,
without waiting to wash, and knowing the road Linton
always took home, followed it without coming up to him.
I didn't trouble myself about the public-houses : Linton is
a temperate man, and he was in no mood for company.
With a great success it might have been different : he might
have taken a glass. You see, Mr. Lethbridge, I know him
and his ways. He is wonderfully sensitive and nervous,
and he had taken it into his head that upon the success of
A Heart of Gold his whole career depended. He had
staked all his hopes upon it. Success meant life, fortune,
fame, happiness : failure meant death, ruin, despair. It is
the misfortune of these highly sensitive natures ; they

suffer the tortures of the damned ! How did you come
here ? "

In a cab," said Uncle Lethh.

I followed Linton on foot, and must have been pretty
smart, because I got here before you arrived. I ascertained
from the landlady of the house that Linton had not come
home, and back I started, retracing my steps, first cautioning
the landlady not to let Mrs. Linton know that I had
been here making inquiries. I'll tell you what was in my
mind. Linton's road home led past a bridge, which he had
no occasion to cross, and I thought if I didn't meet him
before I came to that bridge that I would cross it myself,
to see if some impulse of despair had drawn his steps in
that direction. Sir, I was right ! There, looking down upon
the river, stood Linton. I must not do him an injustice :
I do not believe he had any idea of suicide ; it was simply
that he was in a condition of blank despairing bewilderment,
and it is my opinion he might have stood there for hours
without conscious thought. When I laid my hand upon
his shoulder, he looked at me like a man in a dream. It
was quite a time before he completely recovered himself ;

before, it may be said, he was awake. Then we talked. He
could not tell me how he had got on the bridge ; he had
been drawn there, as I supposed, and he stood looking
down upon the river in a kind of waking trance. I could
dilate on the theme, but the hour is not propitious. Well,
Mr. Lethbridge, when we conversed intelligently, I discovered
that he was afraid to go home. Hereby hangs a
tale. His wife, before he married her, was in a better
position in life than he ; she had wealthy relatives, who disowned
her when she married Linton. Since then it has
been one long struggle ; nothing but hardships ; nothing but
privations. She has never reproached him ; such a thought
I am certain has never entered her mind. But he has
taken it into his head that he has done her a great wrong,
and the culminating events of this night at the theatre took
all the courage out of him ; he dared not face her. But for
him she might have been prosperous and happy; it was
through him that her life had been wrecked. I had to
combat this view, and it needed all my powers. Without
wearying you I may say that I partly succeeded at length
in bringing him to a better state of mind. That is all, and

I have ended just in time. Here is your wife. Madam,"
he said, advancing, and raising her hand to his Hps, " in the
garden of human nature you are the sweetest flower ! "

i)

^LJ)

m^

WHAT THE NEWSPAPERS SAID OF "a HEART OF GOLD."

Mr. Linton's speech before the curtain served more than
one good purpose with many of the dramatic critics. It
diverted the attention of some from the demerits of the
comedy drama, and it softened the condemnation which
others would have pronounced upon it. Again, it furnished
a theme upon which one and all dilated — this one indulgently,
that one severely ; but the main point was (and the
most important in the judgment of the manager of the Star
Theatre) that it drew public attention to the production.
"The great point gained," said that astute individual,

*' is that we get a lot of advertising for nothing."

There were leading articles upon the incident, and it

provoked correspondence upon certain collateral matters,

which the theatrical manager did his best to nourish.

"Keep the pot boiling," said he, and he persuaded his

friends to write to the papers, not caring much which side
they took so long as their letters were inserted. The old
cry of first-night cliques was raised ; the right of passing
judgment within the walls of the theatre on the first night
of production was defended, as to which certain methods
in vogue were challenged or upheld, some calling them
cruel, others maintaining that they were just. Novel
theories were discussed. Said one correspondent :

We are compelled to pay our money at the doors
before we know anything of the quality of the dish which
is to be set before us. If it is worthless, we are naturally
indignant, and we say as much ; if it is good work, we give
unstinted praise. Had we the option of paying afterward,
instead of being compelled to part with our money beforehand,
the case would be different."

To this it was replied :

Nobody forces you to the theatre on first nights ; you
can keep away if you choose until you hear from the
dramatic critics whether the fare is good or bad."

Of course came the indignant rejoinder :

It is the public who are the critics, not the writers on

the press. There is not a man in pit or gallery who is not as
good a judge of the merits of a play as the best professional
dramatic critic in the country."

An Englishman who had just returned from a visit
to America wrote :

"Three weeks ago I was present in a New York theatre
on the first production of a new play. It was the most
wretched trash imaginable, and was an unmitigated and
deserved failure. In comparison with the play I witnessed
then, A Heart of Gold at the first representation of which
I was present, shines forth a most worthy, intellectual, and
praiseworthy effort. It is the work of an earnest, capable
playwright, who deserves every encouragement, even when
he does not come up to the requirements of the modern
play-goer. I will, however, go so far as to place the two
plays on a level, pronouncing them, for the purpose of my
illustration, as equal in merit — which is not the case, for
one is a gem, the other the vilest paste. Both plays were
condemned. Note, now, the methods of condemnation.
In New York, when the curtain fell, the audience very
quietly left the theatre ; there was no applause ; there were

no shrieks and howls ; no brutal cries for ' Author,' to serve
a cruel end. There was something almost funereal in the
manner of the New York audience as they filed slowly out
of the house ; they seemed to tread more softly than usual ;
they spoke in lower tones. This was their method of
damning the play, and I commend it to the attention of
London play-goers as incomparably more decent and
respectable than that which they adopt to break an author's
heart. There are certain of our national customs which
will bear reform; this undoubtedly is one. As I pen these
lines I see the two assemblages ; one conducting itself with
reason and dignity, as becomes rational men and women ;
the other conducting itself with unreasoning and indefensible
cruelty, as becomes a lower order of being."

A morning paper of high repute summed up the matter
thus :

In our columns to-day will be found a letter from a
gentleman who contrasts with some force the different
methods of ' damning ' a play in England and America. He
commends the American system and condemns the English,
ignoring, as it appears to us, the more important issues

which hang upon the methods he describes. If the matter
which he argues commenced and ended with the behaviour
of an audience on the first night of a new production, his
views would be convincing, but it only commences and
does not end there. We have ourselves, on several occasions
during late years, commented with some severity upon
the unnecessarily noisy conduct of first-night audiences in
London when an indifferent or a bad play has been submitted
to their judgment, but we have never gone so far as
to absolutely condemn the method which has excited the
indignation of our correspondent. It is merely a question
of degree, and the good sense of the public will sooner or
later set the matter right. To this end the proceedings at
the Star Theatre on the first representation of A Heart of
Gold will healthfully contribute. But that is not the question.
What we have to consider is absolutely apart from
the purely personal aspect of the matter, and we have no
hesitation in declaring that the English method, exercised
with reasonable moderation, is much more powerful in its
beneficial effects upon dramatic literature than the ' silent
system ' depicted by our correspondent as being the vogue

in New York. If a lesson is to be enforced, it is as well
that some emphasis should be used in the manner of its
administration ; its effect is intended not only for the present,
but for the future, and our correspondent is totally
mistaken in supposing that there is anything really and solely
personal in the attitude of our first-night audiences when
they are displeased — and generally justly displeased — with
the fare provided for them. It means, ' Be more careful in
your future work ; let your proportions be more nicely
managed, do not fall into the ultra-sentimental, or the ultra-farcical,
or the ultra-melodramatic' The condemnation
pronounced is not the condemnation of an author's life and
career ; it is condemnation of a single effort. Let this same
author the following night at another theatre produce a play
which justly pleases, and he will be acclaimed from the topmost
row of the gallery to the foremost row of the stalls.
This fact is a proof that the argument of personalism ridiculously
introduced is unworthy of consideration, and likely
to be detrimental to the best interests of the drama. As
well might one say that a wholesome correction administered

to a child is cruel and brutal.

VOL. II. 25

"It may not be unprofitable to cursorily examine the
effect of the opposite systems current in America and England
with respect to first nights. We do not for one moment
intend to advance that these verdicts are the direct cause
of the comparative merits of production, but certainly they
contribute to the result. For generations it has been the
fashion here to sigh for the dramatist who is to lift our
drama to a higher level than it occupies at present. This
yearning is to a great extent sentimental, for much has been
done by living English dramatists which is by no means discreditable
to intellectual effort ; and the thirst for great plays
plays which shall take their place as classics — seems in
the near future not unlikely to be satisfied. We mention no
names, for that would be invidious, and we are aware that
in a few of our best theatres no high level is aimed at —
that is to say, that the eye more than the mind is catered
for. There are, however, four or five West End theatres
which, while entirely satisfying the demand for pictorial
effect, at the same time satisfy the intellect. At these
theatres original plays of a high order are from time to time
produced, and in their revival of old plays an intelligence is

displayed worthy of the sincerest commendation. We have
writers of comedy also who are aiming high, who fail now
and then, but who buckle on their armour again and work
with a will. This is the right spirit, and we claim that our
English first-night system has stirred it to a higher emulation.
On the other hand, what has America done? Is
there upon the English stage to-day one lofty example of
American original dramatic effort? We supply the American
theatres ; they do not reciprocate by supplying us. What
is the customary answer to this ? ' Oh ! but we are a young,
country.' It is a fallacious excuse. America, as a nation,,
is more than a hundred years old ; it has gathered into its
folds a fair proportion of our best intellect ; it has a stirring,
new, and picturesque history; its public and social life
teems with novel and amusing characteristics; its story
abounds in heroic episodes ; Nature smiles upon it bounteously
and beautifully; and humanity, as varied and
many-sided in its aspects as could ever be hoped to be
seen cheek by jowl in one country, there plays its part
through the hours and the days and the years. What more

is needed ? Young ! America is ripe now, if ever it will be ;

25—2

but where is its lofty dramatic record ? ' Where is yours ? *
the nation may retort. And we answer : Such as it is, look
for it in your American theatres. You ask for our stamp,
when you should make and rely upon one of your own. We
should not be the losers if you satisfied our demand ; nor
would you ; we should both be nerved to the highest instead
of to the mediocre. It is not unworthy of consideration
whether the silent attitude of your first-night audiences,
instead of the indignant, as with us, be not prejudicial to
the production of a dramatic literature worthy of your
greatness.

*' One word more. If London play-goers who are in the
habit of going to ' first nights ' with unfair and ungenerous
intentions, in the hope of or the desire for a failure, regard
what we have said as a defence or a justification of their
occasionally inconsiderate and violent conduct, they are
grievously mistaken. There must be moderation 'in all
things, and there must be moderation in the expression of
their opinions. They have a license, but the privilege
accorded to them must not be abused. They have no right
to demand that the author of an unsuccessful play should

appear before them to be hooted and howled at, and it is
to be hoped for the future that this insistence may not be
carried to an extreme, as of late years has frequently been
the case."

The result of all this was that instead of empty benches,
as the manager of the Star Theatre had feared before Mn
Linton's speech, the public flocked to see A Heart of Gold,
in order that they might judge for themselves. Everybody
in the theatre was in a high state of exultation at this unexpected
turn of the tables. Kiss, who was in great trepidation
at the prospect of not being able to meet the bill which
Jeremiah Pamflett held, became gradually reassured, and
was not chary in the expression of his hopes to Mr. Lethbridge.
" It is the most wonderful event in my professional
experience," he said.

This recount of the progress of Mr. Linton's comedy
drama has somewhat transgressed the' sequence of events, .
the private details of which now claim our attention.

When Mr. and Mrs. Lethbridge returned home after
their visit to Mrs. Linton they found the young people up,
Fred Cornwall, as a matter of course, and because of what

had taken place between him and Phoebe, being happily
'ensconced by Phoebe's side, as was his undoubted right
under the circumstances. Very few moments elapsed before
Mr. and Mrs. Lethbridge were made acquainted with the
engagement. Phoebe's happiness was reflected in her face,
and her aunt and uncle fondly embraced her, and wished
the young people every joy.

I should not have dared to stop so late but for tbis,^'
said Fred Cornwall to Mrs. Lethbridge.

It is very late," said Mrs. Lethbridge, glancing at the
clock ; " five minutes to three ; and the girls must go to
bed. Dear, dear, what a night this has been ! Now, Fanny,
Phoebe, you must not stop up a minute longer. Mr. Cornwall,
I am glad, for Phoebe's sake, that you are. not a
dramatic author."

Why, mamma ? " exclaimed Fanny, the staunch and
faithful champion. " The successful ones makes heaps of
money, and Fred would have been sure to be successful.
And, mamma, it isn't * Mr. Cornwall ' now ; it is Fred with
(ill of us. You mustn't forget he is . one of the family —
aren't you, Fred ? "

I hope to be," said Fred, gaily, " and very soon."

"And you must call mamma Aunt Lethh, as everybody
does who has the least affection for her," said Fanny,
^ "May I?" asked Fred.

"Indeed you may," said Mrs. Lethbridge. She clasped
the young man's hand, and looked at him solicitously ; " I
must speak to you before you go."

He took the hint, and went out into the passage to wish
his dear girl good night. It is wonderful what a long time
this simplest form of farewell occupied, hut then it was
like a new language to the lovers. Indeed, everything to
their senses was at that moment new and beautiful, and
every word they spoke to each other was charged with
strange tenderness. Fanny, as was to be expected of her,
retired first to her bedroom, leaving the lovers together;
but her high spirits would not allow her to be utterly extinguished.
When at length Phoebe came slowly into the
room, "with many a lingering look behind," Fanny popped
out into the passage, shutting her cousin in.

Fred ! " said Fanny, in a stage-whisper, leaning over
the balustrade.

Yes," he said, looking up.

Like Romeo and Juliet, isn't it ? Parting is such sweet
sorrow she could say good-night until tomorrow. But she
isn't coming out again, so you had best go at once to
mamma. Good-night, Fred."

"Good-night, Fanny."

Then he went into the dining-room, where Mr. and Mrs.
Lethbridge were waiting for him. It rather discomposed
him to observe that they received him with grave looks
instead of smiles.

*' You are not sorry," he said, " for what has occurred ? "

"No," replied Mrs. Lethbridge, " we are not sorry. But
for one consideration there would not be a cloud upon our
hearts to-night."

What consideration ? " asked Fred.

Phoebe's father. You have not spoken to him ? "

No, I have not. To speak the truth, it was my intention
to ask your advice whether, before I spoke to Phoebe,
I should go to see Mr. Farebrother at Parksides."

That would have been the best course, perhaps," said
Mrs. Lethbridge.

You would have advised me to do so ? ''*

'eyes."

It is, however, too late to talk of that now. I had no
intention of proposing to Phoebe to-night, and I have no
idea how it all came about. But there it is, and I would
not unsay what I have said, or undo what I have done, for
all the wealth in the world." i

We would not wish you to do so," said Mrs. Lethbridge
; and her gentle voice and wistful eyes were sufficient
proof that she was in entire sympathy with him. " It
is not to-night that we have discovered that you and our
dear Phoebe love each other. We have known it a longtime,
and our prayer is that we have not acted unwisely in
innocently encouraging it. Should there be no obstacle to
your union a happy life is before you both."

What obstacle can there be ? "

Phoebe's father may refuse his consent."

I cannot see upon what grounds," said Fred. " I am
not rich, it is true ; but I am a gentleman, and I shall not
ask him for any money. I am content — more than content
to take Phoebe as she is, without a penny, and to work

with all my heart and soul for her happiness and comfort.
And she will be happy with me, Aunt Lethh."

There is no reason to doubt it," said Mrs. Lethbridge.
^'But it is as well to be prepared when you go to see Mr.
Farebrother."

"To be prepared for what? — for his refusal? Well, in
that case I shall have reason to rejoice that I spoke to
Phoebe first, and learnt from her dear lips that her heart is
mine. With her father's refusal stains me in the face I

O

might, have hesitated, but I should have spoken all the
same. It isn't likely that I should have stood tamely
aside and seen the happiness of our lives destroyed. But
what is done, is done, Aunt Lethh, and nothing can undo it.
Phoebe is mine, and I am hers. Nothing in the world shall
part us."

"Let us hope for the best," said Mrs. Lethbridge. "We
thought it our duty to give you a word of warning. Phoebe's
father is a strange man, and you must be careful in dealing
with him."

I will be. Phoebe remains here four or five days, she
tells me."

Yes j her father consented that she should stop with us
till Tuesday or Wednesday next."

Fred rubbed his hands joyously. " Let it be Wednesday,
Aunt Lethh."

I shall be only too happy, Fred. When will you go to
Parksides ? "

" Not before Wednesday next. I want time, you see, to
think of what I shall say to Mr. Farebrother, There is no
immediate hurry, because everything is as good as settled.
Good-night dear Aunt Lethh. I am the happiest man in the
world ! " .

♦*>5^po<j^C-^->^

>. LJ^ Hi

HIDDEN TREASURE.

Mother," said Jeremiah Pamflett, the next day, when he
reached Parksides, '' I am going to make a move ; I am
getting tired of playing awaiting game." ' :

Something has occurred, then, Jeremiah? " asked Mrs.
Pamflett, her keen eyes on her son's face.

Well, I went to the theatre last night, and sat in the
pit, while Phoebe — my Phoebe, mother — and her precious
set were in a private box, dressed up to the nines, with
flowers and all sorts of things."
The Lethbridges, Jeremiah ? "
Yes, the Lethbridges, and that lawyer chap."
I told you there was danger in that quarter, Jeremiah."
"And I told you to mind your own business. Do you
think this Phoebe affair is the only one I've got to look
after? There are other schemes, mother, with heaps of

money hanging to them, which will land me in a carriage
as sure as guns. I'm going to take in the sharpers ; I'm
going to prove that I'm the sharpest fellow they ever had
to deal with; I'll have thousands out of them! They
think they know a lot, but they don't know everything.
Why, with my head for figures and calculations, I ought to
be as rich as the Rothschild ! I'll tell you all about it by-and-by."


*' You are always keeping things from me, Jeremiah,"
said Mrs. Pamflett, in an injured tone. "Why not tell me
now ?

Because I don't choose. Still tongue, wise head."

I might keep things from you, Jeremiah," said Mrs.
Pamflett ; and there was now a sly note in her voice which
caused Jeremiah to bristle up.

Oh, you would, would you ! You've got something to
tell, and you won't tell it ! All right. I've done with
you." He turned to go, but she seized his arm and
detained him.

No, no, Jeremiah 1 I've no one in the world but you.
I'll tell you everything, everything ! "

Well, out with it ; and never speak to me again like
that, or it will be the worse for you. Mind what I say ! "

I will, Jeremiah — I will. Shut the door, and look first
that there's no one outside."

Who should be outside ? " he asked, when he returned
to his mother's side.

*' Speak low, Jeremiah. Miser Farebrother is as cunning
as a fox. For all his lameness, he can creep about the
house as soft as a cat. I was awake last night with a bad
toothache, and I heard his bedroom door creak, and then
I heard him go softly, softly down-stairs. * What is he upto?
' I thought, and I slipped out of bed and into the passage.
There was no fear of his hearing 7?iy door creak ;
I keep the hinges well oiled ; and it was dark, and he
couldn't see me. Would you believe it, Jeremiah ? It
was past two o'clock in the morning, and he went out of
the house. I was afraid to go after him, because if he had
turned suddenly back, and shut the street door upon me,
I shouldn't have been able to get in without his finding me
out. So I waited and waited, wondering what he was about.
I suppose it must have been twenty minutes at least before

he caaie back ; but he did come at las and, oh, Jeremiah,
you never in all your life saw anybody as sly as he was ! He
looked round and round, and this way and that, to make
sure he was alone, and then he crawled upstairs. How he
managed it I don't know, he was in such pain ; but not a
groan, not a sound, escaped him. And he was carrying a
large cash-box, too, that I had never seen before. It was
covered with mud, and of course I jumped at the truth ; it
had been buried somewhere in the grounds, and he had
gone out in the middle of the night to dig it up. You may
guess what a state of excitement I was in, and I said to
myself, 'For Jeremiah's sake I'll see the end of it.' It
took him almost another twenty minutes to get to his
room ; he had to sit on the stairs a dozen times to rest,
and I couldn't help thinking what a wonderfully sly
man he was that he should be doing what he was doing, and
what perhaps he's done over and over again, without my ever
being able to find it out."

*' You may well say that," grumbled Jeremiah. " A nice
article you are to look after my interests ! Catch me being
in the house all the years you've been, and being taken in

like that ! I wouldn't have believed it of you if anybody
else was telling me."

I wouldn't have believed it of myself, Jeremiah ; but
better late than never, my boy."

Better soon than late : that's the proper way of it. But
go on, can't you? He got back to his room, and there
was you outside the door, peeping through the key-hole ? "

"Yes, Jeremiah, and Miser Farebrother none the wiser.
He wiped the mud off the cash-box and opened it. Jeremiah,
it was stuffed full of gold and bank-notes. He counted
it and counted it over and over again, and he wrote down
some figures on a piece of paper. Then he put the money
back and locked the box, and hid it under his mattress.
After that he tore up the paper he'd been writing on, and
blew out the candle, and went to bed. I heard him groaning
there for an hour afterward."

*' Is that the end of it ? " asked Jeremiah, in a wrathful
voice and with wrathful looks. " Do you mean to tell me
that is the end of it ? "

'^ No, it isn't ; there's something more. Never you call
me a fool again. I went into his room as usual this morning,

and you may depend I looked about for the box ; but I
couldn't catch sight of it. Oh, he's a cunning one, he is !
But I did catch sight of something. I had my hand-broom
and shovel, and I swept up the floor and the fireplace, and
brought away the pieces of paper he had torn up. I asked
him if he'd had a good night, and he said he fell asleep the
moment he put his head on the pillow, and that he must
have slept seven or eight hours right ofl". I told him he
looked as if he'd had a splendid rest — which he didn't,
Jeremiah. He was the picture of misery. When I got
away from him I sorted out the pieces of paper and stuck
them together. Here it is. He must be richer than we
think, Jeremiah. Look ! Ten one hundred pounds — banknotes,
Jeremiah ! I saw him count 'em — that's a thousand.
Twenty fifties— that's another thousand. Fifty twenties —
that's another thousand. And another thousand in sovereigns.
He laid 'em in piles upon the table. They did look
grand ! Piles of gold, Jeremiah ! Four thousand pounds
altogether. You didn't know anything about it, did you ? "
"No, I didn't," replied Jeremiah, his eyes glittering

greedily. *' He must have had the money by him a long
VOL. II. 26

time, I expect. Did you look about the grounds for his
hiding-place ? "

Yes ; but I didn't find it. 1 couldn't see the slightest
signs of one."

"7'// find it, mother'*

You mustn't do anything rash, Jeremiah ; you mustn't
get yourself into trouble."

*' Not likely, mother. Trust me for looking after myself.
All his money is mine, and I mean to have it ! By fair
means, mother — by fair means ; and he shan't cheat me out
of a penny. Once I get hold of Phoebe — . Well, all right !
I shall know how to work it. I'll go now and have a talk
with him."

MISER FAREBROTHER GIVES JEREMIAH A WARNING.

Jeremiah's " talk " with Miser Farebrother proved to be
not entirely to the satisfaction of the younger juggler, and
the few days of happiness which yet remained to Phoebe
were not disturbed by any intimation of the conspiracy into
which the two men had entered, the successful issue of
which would result in the destruction of the fondest hopes
of her life. Jeremiah was impatient, and eager that Phoebe
should be recalled home immediately; but Miser Fare-brother
would not have it so. Of the two he was infinitely
the more wily and astute, and he dropped pearls of wisdom
for the benefit of his crafty managing clerk. It told rather
against Jeremiah that in the account he gave of his interviews
with the Lethbridge party on the previous night he
should accentuate every unpleasant and disagreeable word

to which he had given utterance ; he had an idea that by

26—2

so doing he was impressing the miser with a deep sense of
his wit and cleverness, the fact being that he produced quite
an opposite effect.

"Never startle your game, Jeremiah," said Miser Fare-brother.
"A skilful sportsman goes quietly and patiently
to work. I have not been in the habit of suddenly summoning
my daughter from London, after having given her
permission to remain there for a stated time. To do so
now would only excite suspicion, and strengthen, perhaps,
any opposition we have to meet with. Last night's proceedings
are not in your favour. You spoke sarcastically, and
made yourself generally objectionable. The tongue of that
clever young person. Miss Fanny Lethbridge, must have
wagged rarely against you after you took your departure.
You rubbed them the wrong way, Jeremiah — a mistake, a
great mistake ! Instead of oil, you used vinegar. 'Tis a
million to one that the lawyer scoundrel saw through you ;
you made an enemy of him when you might have thrown

dust into his eyes."

What does it matter ? " said Jeremiah, rather sulkily.

** I'm not afraid of him."

It matters everything," retorted Miser Farebrother.
*' It matters that you exposed your hand, and gave your
rival the advantage over you."

*' My rival ! " cried Jeremiah, with a dark frown.

It looks like it, doesn't it ? " said Miser Farebrother,
with a certain sly satisfaction at Jeremiah's discomposure.
For himself, he was easy in his mind with respect to Phoebe.
He had her oath, sworn upon her dead mother's prayer-book,
that she would not marry without his consent, and he
knew that she would rather die than break it. Jeremiah was
not cognizant of this sacred promise, so cunningly wrung
by Miser Farebrother from his daughter, and the miser,
secure in the knowledge, could afford to laugh at his
intriguing clerk, who thought himself his master's equal in
duplicity. In Miser Farebrother's feelings there was something
of the delight and the triumph which one rogue experiences
when he overreaches another. " It looks like it,
doesn't it ? And we mustn't lose sight of the uncomfortable
fact that Mr. Cornwall looks like a gentleman, while you,
Jeremiah, you — not to mince the matter — look quite the
other thing." He rubbed his hands with a sense of great

enjoyment, and proceeded : " There you were, Jeremiah,
sitting in the pit all the time this fine lawyer-gentleman was
paying court to your sweetheart in a private box. And she
blushing and hanging her head the while ; and our dear
friends the Lethbridges — "

Damn them ! " interposed Jeremiah, the blurting out of
the expletive being some slight relief to his feelings.

"With all my heart ! Damn them behind their backs,
but bless them to their faces. That is the true and wise
policy of Hfe. Never take off your mask unless you are
alone, or with me, Jeremiah. And there, as I was saying,
while my daughter was blushing and hanging her head at
the honeyed nonsense the gentleman-lawyer was pouring into
her ears, were our dear friends the Lethbridges holding
back, and doing all they could to break your tender heart.
You owe them a good turn, Jeremiah."

*' I will pay what I owe," said Jeremiah, fiercely. " They
are working against me, and they shall live to rue it. When
they play with men like me they play with edged tools. But
doesn't all this go to prove that you should summon Miss
Phoebe home at once — this very day ? "

"No ; it only goes to prove that I know how to conduct

this matter better than you do. My daughter will return

home on Tuesday or Wednesday ; and then, Jeremiah, then

you can commence your wooing in real earnest.

You mean it ? "

I mean it. I can't afford to trick and deceive you."
No," said Jeremiah, unaccountably — for one so shrewd
losing his guard ; " I don't think you can." But he was
ready the next moment to bite his tongue off for the indiscretion.


That is right," said Miser Farebrother, with outward
composure, "always be frank with me, Jeremiah — with me
above all others. When you are conversing with me, drop
the mask, as I advised you. It makes me understand the
kind of metal I am dealing with, and how I must act to
shape it to my will. And it is as well that you should
understand, my lad" — and now there was in Miser Fare-brother's
voice a note of stern determination which caused
Jeremiah to wince and to shift uneasily on his chair —
exactly how far it is safe to go with me. My will is law,
and shall be while I live. We have made a bargain, you

and I, and I shall abide by it as long as it suits me — no
longer. You are not yet my son-in-law; you are my
servant, and your future welfare depends upon me.
Remember it, Jeremiah."

Why do you speak to me like that ? " whined Jeremiah.
If I happened to say something foolish, it was because my
feelings were worked up. You helped to work them up,
speaking in the way you did about your daughter and that
that beast ! What I meant was that I am sure you
wouldn't deceive me. I know that I am dependent upon
you, and I beg your pardon a thousand times ! " He so
cringed and fawned that he seemed to become limp, and to
grovel in the dust before the miser.

You see, Jeremiah," said Miser Farebrother, slowly and
deliberately, " though I am weak, I am not entirely powerless
My brain was never clearer, my will never stronger,
than they are this day. At any moment, my servant as you
are, my son-in-law as you hope to be, I could manage to
pounce upon you in London, and clear you out of my
office. Money will buy service, and I can buy it. Money
will buy spies, and I can buy them. Let me have reason

to suppose that you are playing me false, and this piece of
paper is not more easily torn than you should be ruined I I
hold out no threat ; I simply warn you. We are not men
of sentiment, you and I, Jeremiah, because we know that
sentiment doesn't pay ; it always ends in a loss. We are
practical, hard-headed men, with a shrewd eye to our own
interests. I don't blame you for that ; I like you for it.
We are associated with each other, you for your interests, I
for mine ; and that you have, and will have, the best of the
bargain is a slice of luck for which you may thank this
cursed rheumatism which racks my bones and makes jny
life a torture. But what I would drive into you is the conviction
that I am more necessary to you than you are tome
; and that I could more easily do without you than you
could do without me. Supposing you were dead " — jeremiah
started — "supposing you were dead," the miser repeated,
complacently, " I should still have my business,
which I could intrust to other hands, or wind up, as I
pleased ; my money would still be my own, and I could
leave it to my daughter, or, if she offended and thwarted
me, to some good charitable institution where my name

would be revered, or to some church — I am not particular
as to creeds, Jeremiah — where prayers would be offered up
for my soul. Rheumatism doesn't necessarily kill a man ;
it makes his life a hell, but it seldom shortens it. Now I
think of it, I can even see advantages in it. It keeps a man
in-doors ; he can't be run over ; he can't slip down on a
piece of orange peel ; he can't sit in a 'bus next to a person
who has a fever or the small-pox. Why, it lengthens life instead
of shortens it ; the statistics are worth looking up. I
am not what you call a reading man — I never was — but I
can remember what I have heard, and when I was a young
man I heard somebody say, * Those whom the gods love die
young.' Now you are young, Jeremiah, and the gods may
love you. So, taking it altogether, the chances of my life
against yours are rather in my favour. With respect to out
particular business relations, I warn you to be careful ; I
may not be in such complete ignorance of your doings as
you suppose me to be. That is all I have to say."

It isn't very pleasant," said Jeremiah, thoroughly cowed,
"after the years I've worked for you, to have to listen
to all this, and just because I happened to let a word

slip. What more can I do, except to beg your pardon
again ? "

Let it pass, Jeremiah ; I forgive you. All I require is
obedience."

I will give it to you, sir, as I have always done."
And faithfulness. No tampering with me or what belongs
to me." He looked up with a sour smile. " This
little storm has cleared the air, Jeremiah."

"I hope so, sir. Everything stands as it did?"
Everything stands, son-in-law that is to be. Be gentle
in your wooing." «

I will, sir ; I can never be grateful enough to yeu."
Never mind gratitude. Be honest, obedient, and
faithful. That is all I require of you."

In Jeremiah's heart, as he left Parksides that day, reigned
a very cordial hatred toward Miser Farebrother. This feeling
was intensified by genuine fear, for the miser's random
shot, " I am not in such complete ignorance of your doings
as you suppose me to be," had struck home. That he was
guilty of acts in the conduct of the business intrusted to
him, the discovery of which would place him in the criminal

dock, no person, he believed, was aware but himself. But
if the miser were to recover his health and strength so completely
as to enable him to come to London and undertake
the management of his own affairs for a few weeks, there
would be scarcely any escape for the dishonest clerk.
Account-books had been tampered with, money misappropriated,
borrowed for a time, and never replaced ; forgery
even could be traced to his hand. " What does he know ? "
thought Jeremiah. *' What does he really know — and how
much ? Or is it mere guess-work, suspecting me and everybody,
as I dare say I should do in his place ? Yes, it must
be that, or he would not have waited so long before he had
his fling at me." He began to feel more composed. His
mother had informed him before he bade her good-by that
it was absolutely impossible for Miser Farebrother to come
to London unless he was carried there, and that but for her
constant care and attention he could hardly be expected to
live. It was a marvel to her, she said, how he had contrived
to leave the house on the previous night to fetch his treasure,
and to return unassisted. As it was, he had been
compelled, much against his will, to call in a doctor, who

He is too fond of his precious life," said Mrs. Pamflett
to her son, " and too frightened of death, to run a risk.
The doctor has ordered him to keep his room, and not to
attempt to stir out of it for a fortnight at least. There is
no fear of his pouncing upon you, as he threatened ; but,
oh, Jeremiah, what makes you in such a pucker at the
thought of it ? "

To which Jeremiah had replied that he did not care a
brass farthing whether the miser came or kept away, but
that he did not intend to be taken unawares, and to be
interfered with without proper notice. He instructed his
mother to write to him twice a day, morning and evening,
informing him how the miser was. "And look here,
mother," said Jeremiah ; " it won't do you or me any harm
if you are not quite so careful of him. Keep him prisoner
till I am married to Phoebe, and everything will be right.
After that he may go to the devil as soon as he likes ! "

By the time he reached London, Jeremiah had recovered

his composure, and had flattered himself into the belief
that there was nothing to fear from the miser's threats. At
all events, he would take care of himself. " He warned me
to be careful," thought Jeremiah. " Let him be careful, or
it will be the worse for him ! "

Meanwhile Phoebe was enjoying a very heaven upon
earth. There comes such a time to many, when life is
sweet and beautiful, and all things are fair. Was there ever
such a lover as Fred — so manly, so thoughtful, so devoted ?
Her heart throbbed with profound gratitude to the Giver of
all good for the great happiness which had fallen to her lot.

And, oh, dear aunt ! " she said to Aunt Lethh, " I have
you to thank for it all."

"You have only yourself to thank," said Aunt Lethh; "and
Fred is the luckiest man in the world."

But with affectionate persistence Phoebe adhered to her
belief that Aunt Lethh was the ministering angel who had
brought such light into her life.

If you had not been so good to me, I should never
have seen him. To be able to prove my gratitude to you,
that is my most earnest wish — and Fred's. He never tires

of speaking of you, aunt. I think he loves you almost as
much as Bob does."

It delights me to hear it, my dear child. He is a
good man, and there is nothing but happiness before you."

At such a joyful spring-time she would not cast a cloud
upon the young girl's heart by giving expression to the fear
which filled her own, that Phoebe's father might place an
obstacle in the way of the fair future which her union with
Fred Cornwall would insure for her ; but she never gazed
upon Phoebe's sunny face without inward agitation ;ind
anxiety. At such a joyful spring-time all that is woeful and
sordid in surrounding aspect is touched with tender light ;
charity, that might have slept, dispenses blessings ; the
sight of suffering suffices for the exercise of practical sympathy.
At such a joyful spring-time a pure maiden walks
in paths of fairy colour, and her heart is a holy of holes.
Into the prayers breathed by the bedside comes the beloved
name, comes infinite worship, come sacred visions, comes
gratitude for life and life's blessings. When daylight
shines, for him this bit of ribbon at her throat, for him this
rose at her breast — slight things, made wondrous and

Strangely beautiful by the ineffable sweetness of love's young

dream ! Truly, life's spring-time.

If you had your dearest wish," said Fred, " what would
it be?"

That this day might last for ever," she whispered ;
that we might never change."

Darling ! "

Thus passed the happy holiday, all too quickly. Then
came a rude awakening.

Our last night," said Fred, " for a Httle while. How
shall I live when you are not with me ? "

Think of me," Phoebe murmured.

To-morrow was Wednesday, and it had been arranged
that Aunt Lethh and Fred were to accompany Phoebe to
Parksides, and that Fred should ask Phoebe's father for her
hand.

Perhaps he will let you come back to London with
us," said Fred.

She said she hoped so ; and then, accompanied by her
lover and her aunt, she travelled to Parksides to learn her
fate.

A LITTLE PARTY IN CAPTAIN ABLEWHITE's ROOMS.

In his vague allusions to a future carriage, and to his becoming,
in course of time, as rich as the Rothschild,
Jeremiah Pamflett built, as he supposed, upon a very
solid foundation. So have other men — for instance, Mr.
Lethbridge ; but in the indulgence of his day-dreams
Uncle Lethh built his castles in the air, and extracted
nothing but pure pleasure from them ; intangible as they
were, they invariably left a sweet taste in the mouth. It is
to be doubted whether he really ever seriously inquired
into their composition ; he simply built them as he walked
along, blind and deaf to the sterner realities of life by
which he was surrounded, saw them grow under his magic
touch, filled them with fair forms, and smiled gratefully
and pensively as they faded away. He was, of course, a

most unpractical being, otherwise he would occasionally
VOL. ir. 27

have built a castle of terrors, peopled by unpleasant creatures,
upon whose faces reigned frowns instead of smiles.
Wise men, becoming acquainted with his imaginings, would
have shaken their heads and cast pitying looks upon him ;
some even would have questioned his sanity ; but it is by
no means certain whether Uncle Lethh was not wiser than
they. Life is short, and, granted that a man performs his
duties with a fair amount of conscientiousness, the next and
altogether the wisest thing is to extract from life as much
innocent enjoyment of one's days as opportunity affords.
And whether that opportunity be upon the surface, for all
men to see and understand, or be delved for in airy depths,
or climbed up to in airy heights, is of little matter so that
the good end is reached.

From these brief speculations it may be inferred that
Jeremiah Pamflett had his day-dreams as well as Uncle
Lethh, and from our knowledge of their characters it may be
judged that between the day-dreams of the one and the
other there was a wide gulf. Uncle Lethh's day-dreams
brought happiness to all, and his best sense of enjoyment
was derived from the blessings he shed around him. Jeremiah's

day-dreams brought happiness to one — himself; and
his best sense of enjoyment was derived from the wretchedness
and misery the result he aimed at and the road he was
treading could not fail to produce.

That is, supposing him to be successful ; but it has happened
that in digging pits for others, men have fallen into
their own graves. Whether this was to be the case with
Jeremiah Pamflett remained to be proved. He was altogether
so sharp a fellow, so extraordinarily astute, such a.
'dab at figures," as he had declared, so completely "up"^
to every move on the board, so thoroughly conversant with
the game of spiders and flies, that men of the world would
have backed him to come out triumphant from any scheme
upon which, after mature consideration, he had resolved to
put a great stake. Consideration the most mature, study
the most profound, calculations the most careful and precise,
had led Jeremiah to the conclusion that he had discovered
a means of making a great and rapid fortune.
Those who are about to be let into the secret, and who
have not had favourable opportunities of studying human
nature from a sufficiently comprehensive panorama, will

zv - -z

perhaps be surprised at the vulgarity of Jeremiah's discovery
; and more surprised, may be, because it is neither
novel nor original.

To lead intelligently up to the disclosure, it may be mentioned
that some short time before Jeremiah Pamflett had
conceived the ambitious idea of becoming Miser Fare-brother's
son-in-law, a business transaction introduced him
to scenes altogether new to him. Of course it was a money-lending
transaction, and the debtor, to whom in the first
instance he had lent thirty pounds out of his own pocket,
was a certain Captain Ablewhite. It may not have been
his rightful name, but into this we will n:)t too curiously inquire,
nor into his antecedents ; and yet he was undoubtedly
well connected. He knew and mixed with a great number
of " swells," and his name might occasionally be seen in
some of the "society " papers ; he dressed in most perfect
taste, and was seldom scan without an expensive exotic in
his button-hole ; you would judge him from outward observance
to be a man of good-breeding ; he had had a sufficient
education ; his manners were easy, confident, smiling ;
he seemed to know everything and everybody — all of

amount of money, from ten pounds to ten thousand, without
security, to noblemen and gentlemen ; his connection
was a private one, and new clients presented themselves at
the office of their own accord, or through private recommendation.
However it came about, there was Captain
Ablewhite, ready and willing to confer an obligation upon
Jeremiah Pamflctt — believing him to be the principal, and
Farebrother an assumed name, as is generally the case with
money-lenders, either from being ashamed of their own, or
from a wish to do their dirty work in the dark. Jeremiah,
who was launching out for himself, and who, by fraudulently
trading on his own account with his master's funds, was
already making money, never contradicted a client upon this
point when he scented some personal advantage ; and he
scented it in Captain Ablewhite. Here was an opportunity
of worming himself into the society of swells, where pigeons
most do congregate, and it was not to be thrown away.
Jeremiah played with Captain Ablewhite, who was the soul
of candour ; he was a new kind of client for Jeremiah's
study and observation, and the cunning young money-thirsted
saw a grand prospect of the future, through Captain

Ablewhite's introduction, dotted by sons of peers and suckling
young fools sowing their oats.

Now, out of this encounter, which came the victor, the
man who desired to borrow the money, or the man who had
to lend ?

Nothing was done on the first day, but on the second
Jeremiah was the possessor of a three-months' bill, well
backed, for fifty pounds, and Captain Ablewhite walked out
of the office with seven five-pound notes in his pocket. Instead
of landing a large fish. Captain Ablewhite had landed
a very small one, but there was a satisfied smile on his face
as he strolled away. It was not bad interest — fifty pounds
for thirty-five, at three months; but Captain Ablewhite was
content; even though upon Jeremiah Pamflett's table lay
six of the gallant Captain's finest Havana, which Jeremiah
wrapped carefully in paper and put into a drawer.

This was the commencement of the business transactions
of Jeremiah Pamflett and Captain Ablewhite, a recount of
the details of which is not necessary. Say, for general
purposes, that their course was the usual course, and all is
said that need be said. What it is important to mention is

that one evening Jeremiah Pamflett found himself at the
door of Captain Ablewhite's chambers in Piccadilly.

Strictly speaking, it was night, the hour being eleven.
Captain Ablewhite had been giving a little dinner to a few
friends, and when Jeremiah's name was announced the
men were beginning to play. There were two card-tables,
five playing poker at one, six playing baccarat at another.
Captain Ablewhite was at the baccarat table.

Jeremiah's visit was the result of a bargain. There had
been a bill to be renewed, and Jeremiah had indirectly bid
for the invitation.

"All right," said Captain Ablewhite; "come at eleven
or twelve. Evening dress you know."

He received his visitor with a smiling " How d'ye do ? "
and waved a general introduction by saying " Mr. Pam-fleet,"
his guests having been previously informed that " a
fellow might drop in who finances for me." This was
received with a laugh and some slight show of interest,
fellows who finance " for fellows who require it being
very necessary joints in the society machine upon which
Captain Ablewhite and most of his chums rode.

He's a cub," said Captain Ablewhite ; " but that's
neither here nor there."

"The main point is," observed a middle-aged punter,
that he'll do a bill."

Yes, that's it," said Captain Ablewhite.

Therefore Jeremiah Pamflett was not unexpected. The
party, however, were too interested in their game to
take much notice of him. " Make yourself at home," said
Captain Ablewhite, pointing to a corner of the room, where
there was a buffet, with drinks and cigars. All the men
were smoking, and Jeremiah with an assumption offense
by no means successful, helped himself. He knew the
quality of Captain Ablewhite's cigars, and appreciated them.
That he put a handful in his pocket on the sly was, as
Captain Ablewhite had said, " neither here nor there."

With his cigar in his mouth, Jeremiah stood at the tables
and looked on. The game of "poker " he did not understand,
but his eyes glittered as he saw the free flowing of
notes and gold, and the easy way in which money was
lost and won. By close peering and study he soon
mastered the rudiments of the game, and followed the

play. It was a ten-pound limit, the minimum " ante "'
half a sovereign. At first he was confused at the " blushing"
which took place, but what he learned convinced
him that money was to be won by cool heads, and his
heart beat more quickly than usual when he saw a player
with nothing in his hand take a large pool. He stood for
some time at the baccarat table, and watched the game
there. It was much more easily mastered than poker, and
in a very few moments he understood it fairly well.

You don't play ? " said Captain Ablewhite to him, who
held the bank at that moment.

No," said Jeremiah ; " not to-night."

At each table there was a player who profited by the
indifferent play of his comrades, and who, according to
Jeremiah's just calculation, was bound to rise a winner.
It is easy enough," said Jeremiah mentally ; " only what
they win they don't keep. / would ! " A new world
seemed to be opening out to this young man — a new
world filled with fools emptying their purses into his.
Why not ? He did not disturb or interfere with the
players, and although one superstitious man fidgeted

about uneasily when Jeremiah stood at his back looking
over his cards, Jeremiah's conduct was sufficiently unobtrusive
and quiet not to excite displeasure.

At about two o'clock there was a kind of informal
supper, of which Jeremiah freely partook, amazed at the
profusion of good things handed about by the waiters.
The liberality was a revelation to him, but he was discreet
enough to betray no outward surprise. He was taking a
lesson which he meant to profit by. Most men would have
drunk too much, and most of the men in Captain Able-white's
rooms did, but not Jeremiah Pamflett ; still the' two
or three glasses of champagne he drank (the glasses being
goblets) had a slight effect upon him. He maintained his
equilibrium, however, physically and mentally. The, fortunes
of the night had pretty well declared themselves : three
men had lost each some hundreds of pounds, and were
desperately striving to get it back by plunging; others
had lost in a lesser degree ; the only winners were
Captain Ablewhite and the two cool-headed players, one
at each table, who continued playing their steady game.
Jeremiah thought he would try his luck, and he took a

sovereign from his pocket, and followed in the wake of the
cool-headed gamester at the baccarat table. He won,
and staked it again, and won. No one took any notice of
his winnings, which were pushed across to him quite carelessly.
At half-past four in the morning Jeremiah walked
out of Captain Ablewhite's rooms with forty odd sovereigns
winning money in his pocket. He walked along in a high
state of elation, with his hand in his trousers pocket, clutching
the gold and counting it. Forty-one, forty-two, forty-three,
forty-four. Yes ; forty-four sovereigns. And so easily won !
He felt quite fresh, although it was his habit to be in
bed before midnight. He reviewed the scene at which he
had been present, recalled different hands of cards he had
seen dealt out, and the course of the play, and calculated
how much he might have won had he done this or that.
That he would have done the right thing always he was
sure ; and it is likely he was correct, because it was a
simple matter of calculation of odds and chances. One of
the cool-headed players had won six hundred pounds ; the
other, four hundred. " I might have done the same,"
thought Jeremiah.

Captain Ablewhite had said something to him before he
left.

I wonder you don't play a bit. With your head for
figures you would win a fortune."

That was it — with his head for figures. " I could snuff
them all out," he thought.

Captain Ablewhite had also said, " Drop in tomorrow
at two or three."

In compliance with this invitation, Jeremiah walked up
the stairs of the house in Piccadilly at half-past two o'clock
on the following day. In this — the being master of his
time, left entirely to himself to do as he pleased — lay the
great value of his situation with Miser Farebrother. He
was his own master. With the miser eternally at the office
looking over him, niggling and haggling at this and that,
Jeremiah would have had but scant opportunities for attending
to Number One.

At the door of the outer of Captain Ablewhite's rooms
stood a man-servant, who asked Jeremiah's name.

Mr. Pamfleit," said Jeremiah. " Captain Ablewhite
expects me."

If you will wait here a moment," said the man, " I will
tell Captain Ablewhite."

He returned very quickly, and Captain Ablewhite with
him.

Ah, Mr. Pamflett," said the Captain. " Just one word."
He drew Jeremiah aside : " What you see inside is
private."

Not to be spoken of? " said Jeremiah rather mystified.

"Not to a soul," said Captain Ablewhite. "Is that
settled ? "

Yes."

Come along, then."

The rooms had undergone a transformation. There was
an air of serious business about them and the twenty or
thirty men assembled there. Every one of the men had a
little book, which he consulted, and in which he was making
calculations. At two tables sat two clerks with account-books.
There was a " tape " in the room, and a man standing
by it, reading the messages aloud.

False start," this man said aloud as Jeremiah Pamflett
entered.

Go and help yourself," said Captain Ablewhite, pointing
to the buffet, which was in its accustomed corner, crowded
with bottles, glasses, cigars and sandwiches.

oil J :»

JEREMIAH DISCOVERS A " SYSTEM " BY WHICH HE MUST
MAKE A LARGE FORTUNE.

Just before the man called out " False start," there had
been a momentary lull in the room, the principal bets
having been made and booked, but when the two words
were spoken a buzz of eager inquiries commenced. " How
much Silver Rose ? " " Northampton for a pony — what
price ? " " I'll take twelves and threes Peter Simple, a
tenner each way." " I want to back an outsider for a
fiver." To most of these propositions rapid answers were
returned by a man who seemed to have the direction of
affairs. He was a man with a face like a brimstone pippin
and clear grey eyes. A great number of the propositions
led to business and booking on both sides. Then came the
sound of the tape, and another hush, everybody craning
forward to hear the message. " They're off! " said the man
at the tape. At this the betting practically ceased, and all

in the room waited in expectancy, with more or less eagerness.
The distinguishing mark of the company was that
nearly every man in it was a swell, half of them, at least,
having titles to their names. Presently the little bell, the
tinkling of which preceded the ticking of each fresh message,
rang, and the tape recommenced its labours. " Result,"
called the man : " Prickly Pear first, Silver Rose second,
Peter Simple third." A hubbub ensued. " I told you to
back the favourite ; it was a dead certainty ; at least a stone
in hand." " I've cleared a century." "I lose a hundred
and forty. Cursed luck ! " And so on, and so on* In a
few instances money changed hands, and Jeremiah saw the
passing of new Bank of England notes. He was joined by
Captain Ablewhite.

Do you understand it ? " asked the Captain
A betting club " said Jeremiah.

Not at all," said the smiling Captain. " A little party
of friends amusing themselves privately, just to paSs the
time. Do you see that tall gentleman with the gray moustache
? That's Major Rex-scion. He backed the favourite

for a monkey at even money."

VOL. II. 28

"Who lost it ?" inquired Jeremiah.

The book-maker," said Captain Ablewhite, laughing.
*^A bad race for him. So was the first one. Both the
favourites have won. He'll get his money back, with
interest, before the day's out. You won a few sons. last
night ; put three or four on Praxis for the next race ; a sure
thing. The starters are being called out."

The man at the tape gave the names of the horses as
they went up on the board a hundred miles away. There
were eleven, Praxis being among them.

"Butterfly's favourite," said Captain Ablewhite, "and
won't win."

The betting on the third race began. How much this ?
how much that ? — how much t'other ? What's Butterfly's
price ? Evens. Done for a hundred. I'H take an even
fifty. A pony for me. Five to two, Anonyma. Eights,
Geranium. Eight ponies ? All right. Praxis, twenties.

Not one backed the horse recommended by Captain
Ablewhite. Jeremiah screwed up his courage.

Can I bet a sovereign ? " he whispered to the Captain

Certainly. Take my advice; make it five."

"No. Two." ■

"Very well. Forty to two."

He made the bet with the book-maker for Jeremiah, and
took four hundred to twenty for himself.

I've made yours ready money," he said. " You can
give me two sons. now, or when the race is over, if Praxis
loses."

Jeremiah nodded; he was too much excited to speak ; it
was his first bet on a race, and his heart went thump,
thump, and he could scarcely distinguish what was being
said. " Horses at the post. False start. Butterfly bolted."
Thus proclaimed the man at the tape.

"I told you so," said Captain Ablewhite to Jeremiah.
Cost three thou* as a yearling ; not worth his keep."

The man at the tape spoke again.

Butterfly pulled up, and at the post again. Another
false start. Another. They're off ! "

Jeremiah did not know whether he was glad or sorry that
he had risked two sovereigns. He was animated by new
sensations ; the spirit of gambling was awakened within him.

Then came the result, and Jeremiah could scarcely

28-2

refrain from shouting when he heard the name of the
winner — Praxis.

Here's your money," said Captain Ablewhite, after
All right ! " was called out by the man at the tape. He
handed Jeremiah four ten-pound notes. *' Easy, isn't it ?
Done the trick this time. Major Rex-scion backed it ; he
has a system, and has won eight thousand this year if he's
won a penny."

A system ? " said Jeremiah, handling the forty pounds
with delight.

"Yes. See which horse he backs in the next race, and
follow him. Reckon you've won thirty pounds, and back
the Major's fancy for a tenner."

Jeremiah, after some hesitation, decided to take the
advice, and backed the Major's fancy for ten pounds at six
to one. Again he was fortunate, and he won sixty pounds.
His head throbbed with the possibilities of the future.
Major Rex-scion, satisfied with his winnings, took his
departure, and Jeremiah bet no more on that occasion.

What are you going to do to-night ? " asked Captain
Ablewhite.

Nothing," replied Jeremiah.

"Come and have a bit of dinner with me," said the
Captain.

To enjoy anything at another man's expense was an
opportunity which Jeremiah never neglected, and he and
Captain Ablewhite had their bit of dinner at a French
restaurant. The Captain was a man of expensive tastes,
and the dinner was the best meal which Jeremiah had ever
sat down to. The wines were hock, champagne, and claret,
and Jeremiah took his share ; he was entering upon a new
world. When the dinner was over, and they were finishing
the claret and smoking the Captain's best cigars, Jeremiah's
host gave his views of betting on horse-racing.

"The great thing," he said, " is a head for figures. Most
men lose ; the clever ones win great fortunes. Major Rex-scion,
when he began to bet, was a ruined man. He has
been at it three years, and is worth fifty thousand — every
penny of it. What he can do, others can do. For my
part, I don't mind confessing it, I haven't a level head, and
I lose when I ought to win. I make up my mind beforehand,
and I don't keep to it ; I get led away. If I had

been wise, being in the swim as I am, I ought to be a
millionaire ; but it's not too late. There are better chances
now than ever. Yes, I ought to have been a millionaire,
and I should have been if I had had a man like you at my
back. It's a great thing, you know, being in the swim, in a
position to get at the stable secrets. Why, there was only
yesterday now : the owner of Robert Macaire dropped mea
hint to bet against his horse for the Liverpool Cup. Instead
of taking his advice I, like a fool, mentioned it to
Major Rex-scion. What does he do? An hour afterwards
he bets seven thousand to one against Robert Macaire, and
to-day at one o'clock the horse is scratched. Result, the
level-headed Major is a clear thousand in pocket, which
should have been in mine. Waiter, bring me the Daily
Telegraph and the special Sfa?idard. Now, look here at
the Telegraph this morning. Ah, here it is. 'Liverpool
Cup, 7000 to 1000 against Robert Macaire.' That was the
Major's bet, made last night. Here's the special Standard.
Scratching : Robert Macaire out of the Liverpool Cup, at
1. 10 P.M.' I don't cry, 'What infernal luck!' I know
that I lost a thousand pounds by my own folly — that's the

long and the short of it. I'll tell you what the best of this
kind of speculation is. You get your money ; no owing.
Ready money down, if you like ; that's what would suit
you ? "

Yes," said Jeremiah, sucking in every word, and yet
believing that it was he who was pumping Captain Able-white,
and not Captain Ablewhite who was pumping him ;
that is the best plan."

Of course it is. You got your money to-day, didn't
you ? And how long did it take ? Forty pounds in ten
minutes on Praxis. You ought to have done as I told you,
and made a hundred."

I ought," groaned Jeremiah, feeling as if somebody had
cheated him out of sixty pounds.

I don't blame you entirely ; you are not used to this
sort of thing, and you were cautious But I'll be bound
you never made forty pounds first and sixty pounds afterward
so quickly. That's the beauty of the thing."

Do you know," inquired Jeremiah, " what the Major's
system is ? "

Catch the Major telling anybody ! " said Captain Able-white.

" No, sir ; he keeps it to himself — as you would do
if you had a sure thing, as I would do, as anybody would
do. If he finds any one watching him he puts him off the
scent, or drops betting. Know his system 1 I would give
ten thousand pounds to know it. But what matters ? There
are more systems than one, and if there's a man in the
country who can discover them, you are the man. A long
head like yours — such a calculator as you ! There's backing
first favourites; there's backing second favourites;
there's backing them both together; there's backing outsiders
; there's backing short odds and long odds ; there's
backing jockeys. If one thing won't do alone, there are
combinations. Why, there never was such a field and such
opportunities for a head like yours ! With what I can
learn from the stables, and what you could discover, such
an absolute certainty never presented itself. Everything
hasn't been discovered yet. There are a thousand fortunes
in figures and calculations which some fellows will make.
Why not you, for one, and me, for another ? I won't make
a pretence of disguising from you that I want a little bit of
it. That's natural enough, and you won't make a pretence

In this way Captain Ablewhite talked, and Jeremiah
listened and took it all in. A golden field lay before him,
a veritable Tom Tiddler's ground. What a fool he would
be to turn his back upon it ! Such a chance would never
present itself again.

Behold him, then, a few weeks after this conversation,
secretly hand and glove with Captain Ablewhite, going
occasionally to the Captain's rooms and picking up a few
sovereigns ; going occasionally to a race-course and coming
home a pound or two the richer, and night after night
covering pages upon pages with figures and calculations
from racing-books. He was very cautious in these gambling
transactions, and he suffered tortures upon nearly every
occasion when he sat down in Miser Farebrother's office,
which he regarded as his own, and reckoned up what he
might have won had he been able to screw his courage to
the sticking-point. " Had I done this or that," he thought,
"had I had pluck, I should have been so much in pocket.
The Captain told me I should require pluck now and then,
and that the result would be a certainty — and it would have
been." At the end of some three months, during which he
was feeling his way, he calculated that a little courage would
have made him the richer at least by a couple of thousand
pounds— for, as is the case with every person who calculates
after the event — he had no doubt that he would have backed
such or such a horse or such and such a jockey, or have

Meanwhile the fever and the infatuation of betting and
gambling had taken such complete possession of him that
he thought of little else, except the safety which lay in his
marriage with Phoebe. " For," as he argued with himself,
"supposing that by some extraordinary combination of
circumstances luck should go against me, I should stil]
be all right if I were the master of Miser Farebrother's
business, and if his money were mine." As for anything
in shape of sentiment, that was entirely outside his domain ;
his nature was not capable of it. He thought only of himself,
and worked and schemed only for himself.

Meanwhile, also, the course . of events was^so far as

Jeremiah Pamflett was mixed up in his affairs — fairly satisfactory
to Captain Ablewhite. Instead of being dunned
for the money he owed Jeremiah — which by Jeremiah's
cunning methods of compound interest, was beginning to
swell into an important amount — he borrowed more of him ;
small sums at a time, certainly, but, as Captain Ablewhite
said to himself, " Little fish are sweet." As Jeremiah had
him in his power, so also the smiling Captain had managed
to obtain a hold upon the man from whom, in ordinary circumstances,
he knew he would get no mercy. Of a different
quality of cunning from Jeremiah's was the standard of
Captain Ablewhite's intellect, but, properly handled, it was
scarcely less powerful. All his life had Captain Ablewhite
lived upon his wits, eating and drinking of the best, a member
of good clubs, living in fashionable quarters, owing money
right and left, and yet managing somehow to keep out of
water too hot for him. He entertained a very thorough
and sincere contempt for Jeremiah, laughed in his sleeve at
his meanness, fooled him on and on, allowed him to win a
little at his card-parties, introduced him to men as impecunious
and unscrupulous as himself, who borrowed money

of Jeremiah, and would have pulled his nose upon the
smallest provocation. But Jeremiah was always humble,
cringing, and subservient, biding his time for the grand
coup which would make him as good as the best among
them. And so the game went on, its minutest detail
assisting to bring to a terrible climax the tragedy in
which Phoebe's life was presently to be engulfed. This
brings us to the day upon which our heroine, accompanied
by Fred Cornwall and dear Aunt Lethh, journeyed to Park-sides
to ask her father's consent to her engagement with the
young lawyer. •

A daughter's duties.

Upon that day Jeremiah Pamflett, arrayed in a brand-new
suit of clothes, with a flower in his button-hole (copying
Captain Ablewhite as the pink of fashion), and carrying a
bouquet of flowers for the girl whom he was now to commence
wooing openly, had the satisfaction, while sitting in
the railway carriage which was to convey him to Parksides,
of seeing her and her friends hurry on to the platform just
as the signal was given for the departure of the train They
had had the misfortune to get into a growler, the driver of
which, in addition to crawling to the railway station at the
rate of three miles an hour, stopped on the road to exchange
the reverse of urbanities with a rival cabby who had excited
his ire. Fred's urgent requests to the driver to get
along quickly, so that they might catch the train, were
received with supreme indifference ; he was an old hand,

and insisted upon having his little, joke, the consequence of
which was that they arrived too late, and had to wait three-quarters
of an hour for the next train. It was no serious
trouble to Fred. A house, a railway station, a barn,.
England, Timbuctoo — they were all the same to him so
long as Phoebe was with him.

Jeremiah rushed to his mother with the news.

What does it mean ? " he asked. ■ '

Don't trouble yourself," said Mrs. Pamflett. " Perhaps
it is all for the best."

"You talk Hke a fool," snarled Jeremiah, who was" never
happier than when he had some one to bully. " How can
it be all for the best ? "

It will bring matters to a head, Jeremiah. It is much
better for our enemies to work in' the light than in the dark.
You have nothing to fear. Miser Farebrother and I had a
conversation to-day about you. He told me that everything
was settled, and that you and Phoebe were to be
married. He is very ill and frightened. The doctor told
him if he wasn't very careful he would die. He has
been moaning and groaning ever since. *You, mustn't

think the doctor said to him, 'of stirring out of the
house.' "

Ah ! " said Jeremiah, with a sigh of relief, " that is
good. Anything more ? And was there any special reason
for the doctor giving him that caution ? "

It came," said Mrs. Pamflett, " through his expressing
a wish to go to London."

What for ? " said Jeremiah, his face growing very
white.

I can't tell you," replied Mrs. Pamflett ; " except it was
to look after the business."

To pry into what I am doing ! Let him be careful, or
it will be the worse for him ! "

"Jeremiah!"

Don't * Jeremiah ' me ! I won't stand it ! What do I
care for that — that image ? Do you think I will have him
come spying into my affairs ? Let him look to himself —
that's all I've got to say."

At any rate," said Mrs. Pamflett, whose face had grown
as white as her son's, " he can't leave Parksides."

You take care that he doesn't — that's what you've got

to see to. If he gets any better, make it impossible for
him to leave."

Were — ! " But a warning look from her son prevented
her from getting farther with his name. Then she wrung
her hands, and cried, " Oh ! what are you doing — what are
you doing ? "

From fever-heat he went down to zero. " What do you
think I am doing ? "

I don't know what to think, Jeremiah. You frighten
me!"

He did not speak for a moment or two, and in her agony
of impatience she cried, " Why don't you answer me ? "

I am puzzling my head to find out," he said, frigidly,

^* why I have frightened you." He suddenly changed his

tone, and spoke with warmth. " Just you mind what I say,

mother. What I choose to tell you, I'll tell you ; what I

choose to keep to myself, I'll keep to myself. I'm on the

road to a great fortune — a glorious fortune ; and I'm not

going to miss it. I've made a discovery, and if I'm idiot

enough to blurt it out, everything will be spoiled. Besides,

you wouldn't understand it. Can't you be satisfied ?
VOL. II. 29

I'm working for you as well as for myself. Do you want to
go on slaving here all your life, instead of being mistress of
a fine house of your own, with servants and horses and
carriages, and the best people in the country bowing down
to you? Take your choice. But mind, if anything's got
to be done to bring this all about — I don't care whether it
is you or I who's got to do it — done it must be. If I'm
lucky, you shall share my luck. If I'm unlucky — Well,
now, what have you got to say to that ? "

"Jeremiah," she answered, and he did not reprove her,
because he was too intent upon her response, " there's
nothing in the world I wouldn't do for you."

Nothing ? "

"Nothing. What should I be but for you? What
would the world be to me but for you ? If you were in
danger, and I could save you by — "

He put his fingers upon her lips, and looked fearsomely
around.

That will do," he said.

Then he kissed her, and she threw her arms passionately
around his neck, and pressed him close to her breast.

Half an hour afterward she went up to Miser Fare-brother's
room.

Are you any better ? Do you feel any stronger ? "

No. Why do you ask ? Why do you intrude when
you're not wanted ? "

Your daughter has come home."

What of that ? "

Her aunt is with her."

Send her away. I will not see her. Tell her I am too
ill to see anybody."

*' Mr. Cornwall is with her."

His fretfulness vanished ; he became calm and cool and
collected.

Mr. Cornwall the lawyer ? "

Yes."

Has he asked to see me ? "

He has come for that purpose."

And Phoebe's aunt too ? "

Yes."

Did you tell them I am ill ? "

Yes."

29—2

And they insist upon seeing me ? "
Yes." It was not the truth, but she did not hesitate.
She had said nothing to Mrs. Lethbridge and Fred Cornwall
about Miser Farebrother's illness.

He considered awhile before he spoke again.
Your son knew that my daughter was coming home today
? "

"Yes, he did ; and he is here to see her, as you wished.
He obeys your lightest word."

Send him to me ; and five minutes afterward show my
daughter and her fine friends into the room."

Jeremiah entered with his usual obsequiousness and
deference. It afforded him inward satisfaction to note how
ill the miser looked, but he did not allow the expression of
this feeling to appear on his face. On the contrary, he
said, "I am glad to see you looking so much better, sir."

Am I really looking better, Jeremiah ? " asked Miser
Farebrother, eager to seize the slenderest hope. " Really
better ? "

Indeed you are, sir. Be careful, and in a short time
you'll be quite your old self again."

Never that ; never that, I'm afraid*' groaned Miser
Farebrother. " It has gone too far — too far ! "

Not at all, sir," said Jeremiah, with lugubrious cheerfulness.
" You are frightening yourself unnecessarily. We
all do when the least thing ails us. If my little finger
aches, I think I am going to die."

It is hard, it is wicked, that a man should have to die.
I have read of an elixir a few drops of which would make
an old man young. If I only knew where it was to be
obtained — where it was to be bought ! "

I wish I knew where, sir," said Jeremiah. " I would
get you a bottle."

"And one for yourself, eh, Jeremiah ? "

Yes, sir I I shouldn't object. The idea of death isn't
pleasant."

Then don't let us think of it," said the miser, with a
doleful shake of his head ; and then, more briskly, " at all
events, while I live I will do what I have set my mind to.
I may live fifty years yet. There's old Parr : why shouldn't
I be such another ? Those people down-stairs, who are
waiting and longing for me to go — it would drive them to

frenzy if they thought there was any chance of my outliving
them."

Miss Phoebe's friends, sir ? "

"Yes, my daughter's friends. I have sent for them
here. Did you bring those flowers for her ? "

"Yes, sir."

Put them on the table. Take your seat there.
Open the books, and seem as if you are doing the
accounts. And speak no word till I give you the
cue."

Mrs. Pamflett, delaying longer than she was instructed todo,
had allowed ample time for this conversation to take
place. Ten or twelve minutes elapsed before she conducted
Phoebe and her friends to Miser Farebrother's room. They
were somewhat discomposed to discover Jeremiah Pamflett
at the table ; he took no notice of them, however, but with
his head bent down, pretended to be very busy with his
accounts.

Undoubtedly there was a great change in Miser Fare-brother's
appearance. Traces of sickness and suffering
were plainly visible in his cadaverous face ; and Phoebe,

whose heart was beating with love and hope and fear, glided
to his side and put her lips to his.

" Good child, good child ! " he said, passing his arm
round her, and holding her tight to him. " My only
child, the only tie that binds me to life ! "

Dear father ! " exclaimed Phoebe, softly, embracing
him again. His voice was so kind and so charged with
pain that the fear which had troubled her that he might not
approve of Fred vanished, and loving sympathy took its
place.

You will not leave me, Phoebe ? " •

No, father."

*' I have missed you sadly, my child ! You see how ill
I am. I need your care and help — you can do so much
for me. My own child ! All others are strangers."

I will do what lies in my power, father."

You put new life into me. Don't stir from my side.
Your arm round my neck like this ; it strengthens me, gives
me courage, infuses vigour into my weak frame." Had she
wished to move away from him she could not have done
so, he held her so tight. All this time he had taken no

notice of Aunt Lethh or Fred Cornwall ; he had purposely-prolonged
the little scene out of pure maliciousness toward
them. But now he looked up and fixed his eye upon them.
Sister-in-law, it is kind and unselfish of you to bring my
daughter back to me. Had you known I was ill you would
have brought her home earlier."

"Certainly I should," said Aunt Lethh, gently.
"Suffering as I am, sister-in-law, this is my daughter's
proper place." .

"Yes."

But her heart sank as she spoke the word.
You are the happy mother of children," continued
Miser Farebrother, "and should be able to set me right —
if by chance I should happen to be wrong — in the views I
have formed of certain matters. I rely upon your judgment. .
What is a daughter's first duty to her parents ? "
"Love."

Good ! Thus love becomes a duty — a duty to
be performed even though it clash with other feelings.
You hear, Phcebc. You are ready to perform a daughter's
duty ? "

I love you, father," said Phoebe ; but her voice was
troubled ; a vague fear oppressed her once more — a fear
she could not define or explain.

Dear child ! I have no doubt of that. Your sainted
mother lives again in you. Sister-in-law, there is another duty
which a daughter owes to her parents."

There are many others," responded Aunt Lethh.

But one especially, which I will name, in case it may not
occur to you. Obedience."

Yes," said Aunt Lethh, faintly ; " obedience."

These duties, which are your due from your children
are not neglected by them ? "

No, they are not."

What a happy home must yours be ! " exclaimed Miser
Farebrother, with enthusiasm. "And how glad I am to
think that my child has learned from you the lessons which
you have taught your own bright children. You hear what
your aunt says, Phoebe ? Love and obedience are a child's
first duties to her parents. Your sainted mother, from
celestial spheres " — there was a subtle mockery in his voice
and eyes as he raised the latter to the ceiling — "looks down

and approves. And now, sir," he said, turning to Fred
Cornwall, " to what am I indebted for the favour of a visit
from you ? It is the second time you have paid me the
unsolicited honour."

I wish to have a few minutes' private conversation with
you, sir," said Fred. Hope was slipping from him, but he
was prepared to play a manly part.

"I cannot give you a private interview," said Miser
Farebrother. " If you have anything to say to me you can
say it now and here. I'll wager you will not be in want of
words."

*' Father ! " whispered Phoebe, entreatingly, but he purposely
ignored her.

Fred Cornwall pointed to Jeremiah Pamflett. " As it is
your wish, sir, I will say what I have to say before your
daughter and her aunt. Perhaps you will ask this gentleman
to retire." . '

"Perhaps I will do nothing of the kind. This young
gentleman, Mr. Jeremiah Pamflett, is an old and trusted
friend ; you are neither one nor the other. Proceed to your
business at once, or leave me."

Lethh me beg of you — " said Aunt Lethh.

He interrupted her with a touch of his caustic humour.
*' Do not beg of me, sister-in-law ; it will be useless ; I have
nothing to give. Do you intend to speak, sir ? You perceive
I am not in a fit state to be harassed."

You leave me no choice, sir. I love your daughter,
and she — "

*' Stop ! " cried Miser Farebrother. *' My daughter will
speak for herself when she and I are alone. I will not allow
you to refer to her."

"But it is necessary, sir," said Fred, respectfully and firmly,
because I am here with her permission."

*' Necessary or not, according to your thinking — which
is not mine — I will not allow you to refer to her. My
house is my own, and I am master in it ; let me remind you
of that."

I will do as you wish, sir," said Fred, not daring to look
at Phoebe, whose head, bowed upon her breast, was an indication
of the agony she was suffering. " I love your
daughter, and I come to ask you for her hand. I will do
all that a man — "

"Yes, yes," interrupted the miser, testily, "we know all
that : the old formula. Is that all you have come here for ? "

Is not that enough, sir ? "

Too much. My daughter has other views — I also. I
forbid you to speak, Phoebe. Remember the oath you
swore upon your dead mother's Bible ! Mr. Cornwall, I
refuse what you ask. With my permission you will never
marry my daughter. Without it, she well knows such an
event is impossible, unless she commits perjury. You have
not a deep acquaintance with me, sir ; but the knowledge
of human nature you must have gained as a lawyer will
Convince you that nothing can turn me from a resolution I
have formed, more especially from a resolution in which
vital interests are involved — ?ny vital interests ! My
daughter's hand is promised to my manager, Mr. Jeremiah
Pamflett."

Oh, Phoebe ! " cried Aunt Lethh, with quivering lips and
overrunning eyes. " My poor, poor Phoebe ! "

"Spare your heroics," said Miser Farebrother ; "we know
the value of them. My daughter will give me what she owes
me — love and obedience." He rang the bell, and Mrs.

Pamflett instantly appeared. "Show these people the
door," he said to her ; " and if they venture to present
themselves here again, send for a policeman and have
them locked up. Jeremiah, give my daughter your love-offering."


With a face of triumph Jeremiah started from his chair,
and advanced toward Phoebe, holding the flowers for her
acceptance.

Look up, Phoebe," said Miser Farebrother, sternly.

She raised her head, and with a blind look of anguish at
her aunt and Fred, stretched forth her trembling arms, as
though imploring them to save her. Then her strength
gave way, and she fell senseless to the ground.

Phoebe IS STILL FURTHER ENTRAPPED.

When Phoebe recovered her senses she found herself in her
bedroom, with Mrs. Pamflett in attendance upon her. She
was so dazed and confused that for a few minutes she could
not recall what had transpired, but presently she remembered,
and she burst into tears.

There ! there ! " said Mrs. Pamflett, smoothing the
young girl's hair with her hand. " Don't take on so !
Everything will come right, and you will soon be as happy
as a bird."

Surprised at Mrs. Pamflett's tender tone and gentle
manner, Phoebe dried her eyes and gazed upon her father's
house-keeper.

Then they are still here ? " said Phoebe.

Who, my pet ? " asked Mrs. Pamflett.

My aunt and — and Mr. Cornwall."

No," replied Mrs. Pamflett, still speaking with tenderness
: " they have gone; and it is to be hoped that they will
never come back."

' Gone ' ! " exclaimed Phoebe. " ' They will never come
back'!'^

If they do," said Mrs. Pamflett, hovering officiously
about Phoebe, " it will be worse for them. They have been
found out at last. You have had a narrow escape. While
you were lying in a fainting condition on the ground your
father unmasked them, and compelled them to confess that
all their pretended kindness to you was done to *wring
money out of him, only because they thought he was rich.
He is rich, my pet, and can make a lady of you j and so can
Jeremiah, who is dying of love for you, and who is the
cleverest man and the finest gentleman in England. We
shall all be as happy as the day is long, and you will bring
comfort to your father, who is suffering a martyrdom, and
who has the first claim on your heart. Yes, my pet, you
have had a narrow escape — a narrow escape ! I shall give
thanks for it before I go to bed to-night."

Phoebe fixed her clear, honest eyes upon the white face

of Mrs. Pamflett, who made an impotent attempt to return

the gaze with equal frankness.

*' I remember everything now," said Phoebe, in a tone of
forced caithness. " My father turned my dear friends out
of the house ! "

He did turn them away. But to call them your dear
friends after what they said ! Phoebe, Phoebe, you are too
simple and confiding. You should be angry ; you should
cast them off, as your father has done."

"rafter what they said'! What did they say?
I heard not a word which they should not have
spoken."

"That was their artfulness and wickedness. They have
been playing upon you all through. It was while you were
unconscious and could not hear what was spoken that your
false aunt, Mrs. Lethbridge— "

*' Stop ! " cried Phoebe ; " I will not hear her called so.
If you wish to tell me anything that passed after I fainted
you can do so, but I will not listen to you if you speak
against those I love."

You will not love them long," said Mrs. Pamflett, composedly,

"if you have a daughter's feelings. Your aunt
confessed to your father that the reason she had welcomed
you at her house was because she looked for a proper return
in money from him. Why, my pet — "

Mrs. Pamflett ! " cried Phoebe, interrupting her again.

Yes, pet ? "

You have never used that term of endearment to me
before," said Phoebe, resolutely, "and I should prefer you
would not do so now."

You would prefer ! " exclaimed Mrs. Pamflett, softly,
but the artificial crust of tenderness was beginning to be
broken by her true deceitful nature. " But then you are
only a child. You may not quite know what is good
for you. And so, pet, your aunt confessed the whole
plot. Would you be surprised to hear that she has kept
an account of everything she has done for you, of every
meal you have eaten, of every night you slept at her
house, and that she is going to send it in to your
father ? "

I should be very much surprised," said Phoebe.

You will find it true. Oh, the artfulness, the deceit-vol.
II. 30

fulness of women ! Men are almost as bad— at least some
of them are. There are exceptions ; Jeremiah is one — the
soul of truth and honour — and as for cleverness, there's no
saying how clever he is. Said your father to that scheming
lawyer, Mr. Cornwall, who has been playing upon your
feelings, and who is employed by your aunt to ruin us all —
said your father to him, while you were lying on the ground :
There is my daughter. You have come to ask my consent
to her marriage with you. You are free to take her ; but,
knowing what you are, I will not give you one penny of my
money with her ! ' * What ! ' cried the lawyer ; ' not one
penny ? ' ' Not one penny,' said your father. ' If you love
her, as you say you do, for herself alone, there she is ; but
neither now nor at any time, before or after my death, shall
one penny of my hard-earned money go into your pocket.'
*Tn that case,' said the fine lawyer, 'I will have nothing todo
with her.' Then your father burst into a passion, and I
am certain that if he had been a younger man he would have
struck Mr. Cornwall to the earth. Jeremiah started forward
to do it, but your father laid hold of him, and told him not
to soil his fingers by touching such a reptile. It was as

much as he could do to prevent my Jeremiah from thrashing
the villain who wanted to get you in his toils. Then your
father ordered your aunt and her lawyer friend out of the
house, and warned them never to show their faces here
again."

You forget," said Phoebe, " my father did that in my
hearing."

"And he repeated it afterward. They were glad enough
to get away, my pet, and I hope that they will never annoy
you again."

"Suppose, Mrs. Pamflett," said Phoebe, "that I were to
write to my aunt all you have told me ? "

You are quite welcome to do so, pet. Of course she
will deny it, and will invent another story to try and set
herself right in your eyes. It is just on the cards, though,
that she may brazen it out and admit the truth. It is a
dreadful thing when one is exposed as she has been."

"Yes, it is hard to be found out," said Phoebe. " Mrs.
Pamflett, I should like to be alone for a little while."

"Very well, pet. I will go ; but you have only to call,

and I will come immediately. I am more than your friend

30-2

I am your faithful servant. I will guard you like a
mother. From this day no harm shall come to you."

She turned to go, and standing by the door, said, " Your
father wishes to see you, pet."

I will go to him presently," said Phoebe.

Outside the door Mrs. Pamflett's face underwent a change,
and showed itself in its true colours. Her thought was, " Is
she trying to hoodwink me that she did not fly into a
passion ? What has come over her ? Let her be careful —
let her be careful ! I can make life a torture for her."

Phoebe, indeed, was surprised at herself, and wondered
how it was that she had had strength to meet Mrs. Pamflett's
lies in the way she did. She well knew that they were the
basest of calumnies, and she received them as such. Though
all the world rose up against her aunt Lethh, she would remain
that dear woman's champion. And Fred — her own true
lover — that Mrs. Pamflett should for a moment expect her
to believe the false story she had invented ! The fact was
Mrs. Pamflett had over-reached herself. Like a great
number of less skilful artists, she had laid on the colours
too thick. Had she been more delicate she might have had

a greater chance of success. And yet that was scarcely
likely with a girl like Phoebe, the strength of whose nature
appeared to have been, as it were, latent within her until
the occurrence of this crisis in her young life. She did not
quite realize what it meant to her ; but for the present the
spirit required to meet an enemy like Mrs. Pamflett had a
healthy effect upon her ; it had aroused her from despondency
; that, and her love for Fred, and her faith in Aunt
Lethh, had given her strength to listen with outward calmness
to Mrs. Pamflett's fabrications. If trouble were before her,
she would meet it bravely. Fred would be true to her, and
she would be true to him. Aunt and Uncle Lethh and her
cousins would not forget her — would always love her. Her
father and Mrs. Pamflett could not force her into a marriage
with a man she abhorred. " Be brave, Phoebe, be brave,"
she whispered to herself as she walked to her father's room,
for the sake of those who love you truly."

Jeremiah Pamflett was in the miser's room when Phoebe
entered. Miser Farebrother looked very ill ; his face was
white and pinched, his lips were drawn in. Phoebe's heart
sank, and a feeling of remorse shot through her as she gazed

upon his suffering face. She was his daughter — his only
child — and he had a claim upon her love and obedience.
Was it not her dear aunt Lethh who had said as much ? She
knew that this plain setting forth of a child's duty to her
parents was no false declaration ; it was her aunt's belief.
Well, she would perform her duty to the uttermost of her
strength ; but to one thing she was resolved.

Sit here," said Miser Farebrother. Phoebe took the
chair he indicated ; it was between him and Jeremiah Pam-fleet,
and as she passed her enemy she drew herself carefully
from him. He noted this avoidance, but made no comment
upon it. At present his case was in his master's hands.
You are well ? " asked Miser Farebrother.

Not quite well, father," said Phoebe.

But well enough," he retorted. " You have a long life
before you. Look at me. How long do you think I shall
live ? "

Many years, I hope, father."

We shall see whether you do hope it. It must be plain
to you that I am ill — seriously ill."

I am very sorry, father."

"We shall see whether you are sorry. What is a man to
believe in? Words? No. Actions speak, not words.
False sympathy, lying protestations — what are they worth ?
Those who use them ought to be trodden in the mud. You
hope I shall live many years. We shall see. I have not
long to live, I tell you ; but you can hasten my death ; you
can murder me."

Father ! " cried Phoebe, in terror. " Murder you ! "

Murder me. You can do it. If I were to implore you
to spare me — to let me live, would you grant my prayer, or
would you carry out your wicked designs ? We shall see —
we shall see. You perceive that I am suffering, and you
say you are sorry. Your dead mother knows how far
you are speaking the truth ; I do not — as yet. It has
to be made clear to me. You are my daughter, are you
not ? "

Yes, father."

What kind of love have you given me ? What kind of
carse have you bestowed upon me ? For years I have been
groaning and suffering here, and you — what have you been
doing ? Have you attended to me, have you nursed me,

have you shown one spark of a daughter's proper feelings ?
No, not one — not one. Gadding about, going to theatres,
dancing, making light friends, laughing, singing, ministering
to your vanities, while I, your father, have lain here, cut to
the soul by your coldness and want of decent feeing. If
it was not in you, you might have pretended it was, and
I should have been deceived. It would have made it no
better for you, but it might have been better for me. You
J<.now that I have a doctor attending me ? "

Yes, father."
- " Have you ever asked him how I was — have you ever
shown, in a single conversation with him, that you have
within you those solicitous feelings which a daughter should
save for a suffering father ? Have you ever shown — " He
-did not proceed. He lay back, panting, in his chair, and
Jeremiah, without looking up, thought : " What an actor he
is ! Oh, what an actor he is ! "

Father," said Phoebe, in deep distress, " you do me an
injustice. It has always been my wish to attend to you, to
nurse you, but you would never allow me. ' Let me alone !
let me alone ! ' you said, and have always repulsed me."

Why ? why ? " he asked, raising himself in his chair,
and bending so excitedly forward that she was frightened,
and cried :

Don't excite yourself, father ; you are not strong enough
to bear it."

I know I am not. You know it too. It is not I who
am exciting myself — it is you, because you wish to kill me ! "
She shuddered violently, and covered her face with her
hands. " Why, when you have asked me whether you
could do anything for me, have I desired you to let me
alone ? Because I could see plainly that you wished lot to
be troubled about me ; that you were pretending — that you
were wholly false in your advances. There are a thousand
things a child can do for a parent in my condition which
would bring pleasure to him. Have you done one ? That
I am impatient, querulous, quick-tempered — is not that
natural when a man is in anguish day and night ? Did you
ever give that a thought ? do you give it a thought now ? "

Father," said poor Phoebe, feeling acutely the bitter
injustice of her father's accusations, and yet not knowing
how to combat them without plunging him into deeper

excitement, " I will nurse you if you will allow me ; I will
do everything in my power to restore you to health. Try
me, father ! "

You do not intend to leave Parksides, then, without my
permission ? "

*' To leave Parksides without your permission ! " she
echoed. " No, father ! "

For the few weeks that remain to me you will not leave
the house ? You will nurse me — you will soothe my last
hours ? "

Oh, father, do not speak like that ! I will do all you
wish."

Out of your own loving heart ? "

Yes, father, out of my own loving heart ! "

Swear it ! " he cried, in a loud, commanding tone,
pushing his dead wife's prayer-book to the guileless girl.
** Kiss your mother's prayer-book, and prove to me whether
)ou are lying or speaking the truth ! "

In an impulse of fervour and self-reproach she kissed the
prayer-book. He took it from her hands.

You are a witness, Jeremiah"" he said.

I am a witness, sir," said Jeremiah.

You have sworn," said Miser Farebrother to his
daughter, " that you will not leave Parksides while I live,
unless I drive you forth. That is your oath."
• " Yes, father." But she said it with a sinking heart. It
seemed to her as if a net were being spread around her,
from which it was impossible to escape.

In her bed that night this impression of a forced, inexorable
imprisonment became accentuated by a review of what
had passed between herself and her father. For what other
reason had he made her swear upon her dead mother's
prayer-book that she would not leave Parksides without his
permission ? Could he not have taken her word ? Was
she to regard all that he had said as of equal value with
Mrs. Pamflett's false statements? Were they all leagued
against her ? and what would be the end of the plot ?
Could they now compel her to marry Jeremiah Pamflett ?
No ; she would endure a thousand deaths first. But she
was imprisoned here in Parksides ; she had no longer a will
of her own. Her father had turned her only friends from
his house, and he and they were the bitterest enemies ;

he had turned her lover from his house ; she was cut off
from all she held dear, and was here unprotected, at the
mercy of Mrs. Pamflett and her son, and of her father,
whose inexplicable behaviour toward her afflicted her with
shuddering doubts. Had she been aware of what transpired
between her aunt Lethh and her father after she had fainted
in the earlier part of the day, she would not so readily have
fallen into the trap her father had set for her.

When she fell to the ground Aunt Lethh and Fred Cornwall
started forward with sympathizing eagerness to assist
her, but they were motioned sternly back by Miser Fare-brother.


I have ordered you to leave my house," he said. " I
can attend to my daughter."

Sadly they turned to the door, but Aunt Lethh came
swiftly back.

Listen to me, my dead sister's husband," she said, in a
quick, trembling voice. " At my sister's death-bed, in this
very room, I promised her to look after her child, my poor
niece lying here at our feet, as tenderly as though she were
one of my own. I love her as my own child, and I shall

redeem my promise to my dead sister. This person " — she
pointed to Jeremiah Pamflett — " to whom you say you have
promised your daughter's hand, is utterly unworthy of her.
She loves an honourable gentleman, and what I can do to
bring about her happiness shall be done. If you have a plot
against her welfare I will endeavour to circumvent it. My
heart and the hearts of my husband and children are ever
open lo her. Our home is hers ; she can come to us at any
moment, and we will receive her with joy. In this house
there was never for her nor for her dead mother the slightest
sign of love."

My daughter has told you so ? " demanded Miser Fare-brother.


*she has not told me so," said the indignant woman
She has always spoken of you with tenderness and gentleness.
You know best how you deserved it at her hand?.
If she cannot find love and protection here, she can find
them with me and mine!" She knelt and kissed Phoebe's
pale face. " My sweet child ! so happy but an hour ago !
Come to me if they oppress you here — my child ! my
daughter ! "

"Bundle them out," cried Miser Farebrother, "neck and
crop ! "

They had no right to stay, and they left the place
mournfully.

Do not be false to Phoebe," said Aunt Lethh to Fred.

No need to say that to me, Aunt Lethh," said the
young fellow. " Phoebe, and no other wv^man, shall be my
wife."

This encounter it was between Aunt Lethh and Miser
'Farebrother which had caused the miser to extract a binding
oath from Phoebe that she would not leave Parksides
-without his permission.

How was that done, Jeremiah ? " he asked, when his
daughter left the room.

- " Capitally ! capitally, sir ! " said Jeremiah. " What an
Actor you would have made ! " '

Perhaps — perhaps," said Miser Farebrother, with a
sneer. "I am not half so ill as I look, Jeremiah. Don't reckon
too soon upon my death. Excitement like this does me a
power of good. They came to trap me, my fine lawyer and
tearful sister-in-law ; but I have turned the tables upon them.

As I will upon every one " — with a keen look at Jeremiah —
who dares to play me false ! "

It was fortunate for the miser that his managing clerk did
not possess the power of striking a man dead by a glance ;
if he had, that moment would have been Miser Farebrother's
last.

^ ^^^' tf^ ^

THE ENGAGEMENT RING.

From that day Phoebe's life in Parksides was, as Mrs.
Pamflett had threatened, a torture, and had it not been
that she was endowed with a reserved strength which lies
latent in many gentle natures until a supreme occasion calls
it forth, it is likely she could not have lived through the
next three or four months. One day her father summoned
her.

*' It is time now," he said, " that our plans for your future
should be finally settled. I have already waited too
long."

Phoebe knew what was coming, and though she dreaded
it, she had nerved herself to meet it.

Cannot things remain as they are ? '"' she asked.

It was impossible for her to speak with any show of
affection. She had discovered that her father's wish that

she should be his nurse was a mere pretence. Believing in
it, she had endeavoured to carry it out and to perform her
duty ; but the stern repulses she met with had convinced
her that she had been deceived and betrayed. The oaths
she had sworn were binding upon her ; she knew that she
could not escape from them, and that her life's happiness
was blasted ; but she resolved not to be beguiled by any
further treachery. So she suffered in silence, and with some
fortitude, praying for strength, and in some small degree
finding it ; but she was growing daily thinner and paler, and
sometimes an impression stole upon her that her life was
slowly ebbing away. " It will be better that I should die,"
she thought ; " then I shall see my mother, and my torture
will be at an end."

It was a torture subtly carried out. Phoebe had gauged
Mrs. Pamflett, and had rejected with quiet scorn all attempts
at an affectionate intimacy. Mrs. Pamflett repaid her with
interest.

When you are my son's wife," she said, " you will be

more tractable ; you will know me better, and you will love

me.

VOL. II. 31

"1 shall never know you better," Phoebe replied, "and I
shall never love you."

Proud spirits can be broken," said Mrs. Pamflett.
"Yes," sighed Phoebe; "but I am not proud — I am only
faithful ; and perhaps I shall soon die."

You will be no loss," said Mrs. Pamflett ; " but before
you die you will be my daughter-in-law."

At this period Miser Farebrother had not spoken positively
to Phoebe about Jeremiah ; he had left it to the young villain
to make his way, and, indeed, Jeremiah had attempted todo
so. But Phoebe utterly baffled him. He brought her
flowers, and at her father's command she received them
from his hands. An hour afterward he saw them lying on
the floor or in the grounds, where she had dropped or
thrown them. He arrayed himself in new suits of clothes
and laid himself out for admiration, which she never
bestowed upon him. He strove to draw her into conversation,
and if he managed to extract a word from her it was
but a word — often not even that ; a look of scorn and contempt
was then his reward. At meals his offers of small
courtesies were disregarded. By her father's order she sat

at the head of the breakfast and tea table, but she would
never pass Jeremiah's cup nor accept it from him. His
mean nature resented this treatment in mean ways, and
after a while he indulged in sarcasms, speaking at her instead
of to her. This change passed unnoticed by her ; she might
have been deaf and blind to everything he said and did.
Two or three weeks after the visit of her aunt and Fred
Cornwall to Parksides, Phoebe went to her father with a
letter.

I wish to post this letter," she said. *' May I do so ? "

You have sworn not to leave Parksides without my
permission," he replied. " I will not allow you to go to the
village."

I had no intention of going without your permission,"
she said.

He kept her so strictly to-her oath that she was virtually
a prisoner in Parksides.

I will have the letter posted for you," he said.

She gave it to him, and he opened it, read it, and burnt

it. No answer, of course, could come to a letter that was

not sent ; but Aunt Lethh, of her own accord, wrote to

31—2

Phoebe, very careful in what she said, because she suspected
treachery, and feared that her letter might not reach
Phoebe's hands. It did not ; nor did letters written by
Fanny. They were all opened by Miser Farebrother, read,
and burnt.

Have any letters come for me ? " asked Phoebe.
None," replied her father. " Your precious friends
have forgotten you. Now that they are convinced they
cannot wring any money out of me, they will have nothing
more to do with you."

She did not tell him that she knew he was guilty of an
untruth. She had the firmest belief in her aunt's constancy,
and this, to some extent, was a comfort to her ; but the
pain and the grief that lay in silence were very bitter. She
never ceased thinking of her lover ; that was the keenest
torture of all. For when weeks had passed in this way she
argued with herself, how could any young man, how could
even Fred, be faithful to one who was as dead to him ?
Perhaps the greatest terror she experienced during these
unhappy weeks arose out of a dream. She dreamt that
her father was dead, and she woke up with a strange

feeling of ease. Would she, then, rejoice in his death ?
Am I growing wicked and revengeful ? " she asked of herself,
in the silence of the night. " Cruel as he is, he is still
my father. Send death to me, and end this misery ! " It
was a prayer to God, and as she grew daily weaker and
thinner it seemed as if her prayer would be answered.

So now when her father sent for her, and told her that
it was time the plans he had formed for her future should
be carried out, she answered, " Cannot things remain as
they are ? "

They cannot," said Miser Farebrother. '' Mr. P^mflett
will come here this evening, and will sleep here to-night.
To-morrow morning he will go to London to attend to the
business, and in the evening he will return. Before tomorrow
night is over you will accept him for your husband."


I will never do that," said Phoebe.

You have sworn to obey me," he said, sternly.

I have not," she said, in as steady a voice as she could
command. " I have sworn never to marry without your
consent, and I will keep my oath. I have sworn not to

leave Parksides unless you thrust me out, and I will keep

my oath. There my obligation ends."

"What objection have you to Mr. Pamflett ? " he asked.
I hate and abhor him," said Phoebe, firmly. " He is
not a man ; he is a reptile."
The door opened, and Mrs. Pamflett appeared.
Come in," cried Miser Farebrother, " and hear what
this ungrateful child calls your son. Repeat it in her hearing,"
he said to Phoebe.
The girl did not speak.

I will tell you," said Miser Farebrother, " and if she
denies it she lies. I asked her what objection she had to
Jeremiah, and she answered that she hated and abhorred
him, and that he was not a man but a reptile."

*' Did you say that?" exclaimed Mrs. Pamflett, with
venom in her voice and eyes.
Phoebe was silent.

■** That is the proof," said Miser Farebrother. " If she
did not say it she would deny it."

*' My son a reptile ! " said Mrs. Pamflett ; *' then what
am I — his mother ? I shall remember it ! "

*' Do you want me any longer ? " asked Phoebe of her
father.

No ; you can go."

At tea time, Jeremiah having arrived, Miser Farebrother
sent for his daughter. She sat at the table and poured out the
tea. Dark rims were around her eyes, her lips were quivering;
but there was no pity for her. They talked of business
matters j according to Jeremiah, money was being made
fast ; profitable negotiations had been entered into that day,
and the miser gloated as he jotted down figures and calculated
interest.

Things are looking up, Jeremiah," he said, in a tone of
exultation.

That they are, sir," said Jeremiah. " Everything is
going on swimmingly."

Could the thoughts which were harassing him have been
read, could his mind have been laid bare. Miser Fare-brother
would have been aghast. Jeremiah was in a sea of
difficulties ; he had spread nets for others, they were closing
around himself. The accounts he presented to his master
were false ; the negotiations he had entered into were

inventions ; the bills he exhibited were forged. There were
only two roads of safety for him — one, his speedy marriage
with Phoebe ; the other, his master's death. His mother
was filled with apprehension, for, having a better knowledge
of his guilty nature than the others, she divined that he was
in some deep trouble.

After tea the miser said, " Jeremiah, you have something
in your pocket for my daughter."

Jeremiah produced it — a piece of silver tissue-paper, from
which he took a ring.

"It is an engagement ring," said Miser Farebrother
Give it to Phoebe."

He offered it to her, and she did not raise her hand.

Take it ! " cried Miser Farebrother.

Phoebe took it, and flung it away.

Miser Farebrother rose slowly to his feet. One hand
rested on the table, in the other he held his crutch stick.

Pick it up ! " he said, sternly. '

Phoebe did not move.

Pick it up ! " he cried again.

Still Phoebe made no motion. Trembling with passion,

he lifted his crutch stick and struck her across the neck. It
was a cruel blow, and it left a long red streak upon the
girl's fair flesh. She tottered, and almost fell to the ground,
but she straightened herself, and uttered no word.

If I were dead," he said, " you could marry your gentleman
lawyer."

If he would have me," Phoebe replied, in a low, firm
tone. " I should then not be bound by my oath."

You hear ! " he exclaimed, appealing to Mrs. Pamflett
and Jeremiah. " She wishes for my death, and would bring
it about if she could in order that she might be free to disgrace
me ! "

They heard ; but Phoebe did not. The pain of the blow
was great, and she could scarcely bear it. Blinding tears
rushed into her eyes.

Go from my sight ! " said Miser Farebrother. " And
bear this in mind : my word is law. You will marry the
gentleman I have chosen for you, or my curse shall rest
upon you till your dying day ! My death alone shall accomplish
your guilty desire."

Thereafter there was no peace for her. There was something

devilish in the ingenuity displayed by her enemies to
torture her soul. There are women, strong women, whom
it would have driven to madness ; but from this despair
Phoebe was mercifully saved. " I will bear it ; I will bear
it," she murmured, " till the end comes. I must preserve
my reason. When I am dead, Aunt Lethh will drop a flower
on my grave. And Mr. Cornwall, perhaps, will think with
sorrow of the poor girl whose heart is his for ever and ever ! "
She never thought of him now as " Fred ; " he was too far
removed from her ; all was over between them, but she
would be faithful to him to the last. She intrenched herself
in silence, never opening her lips to Mrs. Pamflett and
Jeremiah, and never to her father unless he addressed her
and compelled her to reply. From the day he struck her
she did not call him " father." She did not regard him as
such j her heart was a heart of tenderness, but his merciless
conduct had deadened it to him. She thought frequently
of her mother, and prayed aloud to that pure spirit. " Take
mie, mother," she cried, " take your unhappy child from this
hard world ! " So months passed, her cross becoming
harder to bear with every rising sun. Then it was that

Phoebe began to fear that in the cruel, unequal fight her
reason might be wrecked. At length a crisis came.

During the day her father had been more than usually-savage
toward her. In the evening he ordered her to her
room. She went willingly, and undressing, retired to bed.

She did not know what time of the night it was when she
heard her father's voice outside her door. He had tried
the handle, but Phoebe never went to bed now without
turning the key in the lock.

Answer me ! answer me ! " cried her father.

What do you want ? " she asked, sitting up in bed.

You ! Dress this instant, and come out ! "

She rose from her bed, and dressed hurriedly, without
lighting a candle. Then she went to the door and opened
it.

"Assist me to my room," he said, in his cold, cruel
voice.

He leant upon her with such force that he almost bore
her down. They reached his room.

Attend to my words," he said, " they may be the last
that will ever pass between us. There is ruin on all sides

of me. Whom should I trust, if not you ? Once more I
ask if you will obey me."

In everything," said Phoebe, " except — "

He did not allow her to finish.

** Except in the way I wish. I will put an end to this.
You walk like a ghost about the house. I see you in my
dreams. You come, you and your mother, who was like
you, a pale, sickly creature, and stand by my bedside in the
night. I saw her a few minutes since, and I will submit toit
no longer. I will rid myself of you both, now and forever
! Again, will you obey me ? "

Not in the way you wish," replied Phoebe.

In what other way can you satisfy me ? You know
well in no other way. You will not ? "

I will not."

With all his strength — with more than his ordinary
strength, for he was excited to a furious pitch — he struck
her in the face.

Will you obey me ? "

No."

He struck her again, a frightful blow.

I call down a curse upon you ! " he cried. " You are
no longer a child of mine. I drive you from my house.
Go, this moment, or I shall kill you ! "

She turned and fled without a word. Out into the
passage, down the stairs, out of the house, and into the
open, quivering, bleeding, and staggering blindly on through
the darkness of night.

DARK CLOUDS ARE GATHERING.

During these troublous months in Phoebe's life matters
pregnant with momentous issues for weal or woe were progressing
in the careers of others who are playing their parts
in this domestic drama. From a worldly point of view
Fred Cornwall was making rapid progress. He still possessed
but a scanty purse, but he saw before him an almost
certain prospect of success. He was making a reputation ;
his foot was on the ladder. He was unhappy and sad at
heart, and he took refuge in desperately hard work, slaving
day and night, as it is necessary for a man to do if he desires
to make his mark in life's tough battle. This incessant
labour and his visits to the Lethbridges — which were as
frequent as ever — were his only consolation. Faithfully did
he cherish Phoebe's image in his memory ; he was as true to
her as a true man could be ; and the esteem and affection

which the Lethbridges entertained for him deepened as
time wore on. Many were the conversations, many the
consultations, which he and the Lethbridges held respecting
the young girl upon whose life had fallen so heavy a
blow, and whose place in the dear home in Camden Town
was open for her if by any happy chance she should come
to claim it. That they received no letters from her, that
those they wrote to her should remain unanswered, distressed
them, but did not shake their faith in her.

She has written," said Aunt Lethh, "and her letters have
been intercepted. Ours have never reached her hands.
Poor child ! poor child ! "

"What is the use of being a lawyer," exclaimed Fanny,
if you don't know how to bring her back to us ? "

Fred Cornwall smiled sadly. "God knows," he said, " I
would risk and sacrifice my life for her if any good could be
done ! A lawyer's skill is powerless here. She is living
with her father, under his protection. He has a legal claim
upon her which no action on our part can touch. If she
herself made some move we could act ; but as it is, the lawful
right is on her father's side."

*' Her father I " cried Fanny. " Her oppressor ! her torturer,
you mean ! ''

I mean that," replied Fred ; " but that does not help
us. I have consulted a dozen fellows, and they all agree
that, as things stand, nothing can be done. Her father has
forbidden us his house ; he has a right to do so. To put
a foot inside the grounds of Parksides would be a trespass ;
we should only be bringing ourselves into trouble, and bringing
heavier trouble, most likely, upon Phoebe."

If I were a man," Fanny declared, " I would do it ! I
would drag her from that wretched, miserable hole ; I
would tear the hair out of Mrs. Pamflett's head ; I — I — "

"Fanny," said her mother, reprovingly, "you don't know
what you are saying."

Whereupon Fanny began to cry and express her wish
that she lived in a country where there was no law.

In the kitchen, as in the parlour, the principal topic of
conversation between Tom Barley and 'Amelia Jane was
Phoebe. Tom Barley, truly, would have laid his life down
for his young mistress ; he sorrowed and grieved, and if he
could conveniently have got into a personal difficulty with

Jeremiah Pamflett which could have been decided by fists
or sticks, he would have courted the opportunity with
alacrity. But though he cudgelled his brains he could find
no way to an issue so agreeable and desirable. The number
of times 'Amelia Jane laid out the cards to arrive at a proper
understanding of Phoebe's future could not be counted.
Sometimes it was bad, sometimes it was good ; and Tom
Barley's spirits rose and fell accordingly. There was always
the dark woman, Mrs. Pamflett, exercising her malevolent
influence ; there was always the dark man, Jeremiah Pam-fleet,
prowling around to do some dreadful deed ; there was
always the fair man, Fred Cornwall, popping up to circumvent
the diabolical plots which surrounded poor Phoebe.
The result of the labour of scores of nights, with the heads
of Tom Barley and 'Amelia Jane very close together bending
over the cards, was eventually 'Amelia Jane's summing up that
it all depended upon Tom Barley.

'eyes, Tom," said 'Amelia Jane, "it all depends upon
you."

Tom Barley could not exactly see how this could be, but

he set his wits to work, and he came to the conclusion that
VOL. II. 32

it was his duty to go down to Parasites as often as possible
to have a good look around," and to be on the spot if he
was required. His efforts in this direction were circumscribed,
for a very sufficient reason. Fred Cornwall was
not the only one who, despite the cloud which hung over
him and the girl he loved, was getting along in the world.
The same may be said of faithful Tom Barley. He had
reached the height of his ambition. Through the interest
of friends, and the good character he had earned since he
left Parksides, he had succeeded in being taken on in "the
force." He was now a policeman. The pride he felt in
obtaining this honourable position in the service of his
country, and the sense of importance which almost overwhelmed
him when he presented himself in his uniform to
his friends, would require a more powerful pen than mine
to describe. At length he had raised himself; at length
he was " somebody" ; at length he held a place in the world
and society.

Behave yourself, 'Amelia Jane," said he to that most
estimable servant of all work, "or I'll take you up."

Tm take me up ! " said 'Amelia Jane in confidence

to Aunt Lethh. '*' Why, I can twist 'im round my little
finger ! "

Which, if not taken literally, was exactly how the case
stood.

*' I 'ope he'll take somebody up," said 'Amelia Jane, still in
confidence to her mistress ; " 'cause if he doesn't, what's
the good of 'is being a peeler ? " A view of the case
which is no doubt entertained by other persons than 'Amelia
Jane.

That Tom Barley had a heart as tender as "a babe un-burned,"
in 'Amelia Jane's estimation, was perhaps true
enough, but he had a strong sense of duty, and it will be
seen that, common policeman as he was, he had in him the
stuff of which heroes are made. It is the fashion to dress
heroes in grand uniform and gold-lace, but the majority of
them are dressed in fustian.

Being a policeman, as has been stated, with a policeman's
duties, was a tax upon Tom Barley's time ; in that respect
he was not his own master ; but 'Amelia Jane's verdict, that
it all depended upon him, was not to be disputed. Therefore,
when he was on day duty, he sometimes went down to

32-2

Parksides at night, to try and find out something about his
young mistress, and whether he could be of service to her ;
and when he was on night duty, he went down to Parksides
during the day, bent on the same errand. But he saw
nothing ; heard nothing. Nevertheless, he did not relax
his efforts. That they encroached upon the hours which
should have been devoted to sleep was of the smallest importance
3 he had a constitution of iron and the strength
of a lion, and, bent upon a task to which his heart and soul
were devoted, he could do with three hours' sleep out of
the twenty-four. You shall see presently of what else he
was capable. It is not revealing anything in this domestic
drama which at this point should not be revealed, by
stating that, in the exercise of his common policeman's
duties, he did a deed which made all England ring with
admiration. It is simply leaving you in a pleasant state of
mystery.

His expenses to Parksides were not borne entirely by
himself. Fred Cornwall supplied him with part of the
necessary funds, and would have supplied him with the
whole, but Tom would not have it so. His service was a

service of love and honour, not to be measured by pounds,

shillings, and pence.

Thus it will be seen that the lawyer and the policeman
were on the road to worldly prosperity. Not so the Lethe
A thunder-bolt was forged, ready at the fatal
moment to descend upon them and crush them. This
thunder-bolt was the acceptance for three hundred pounds
which Mr. Lethbridge had given to Kiss and Mr. Linton,
the dramatic author, and which they had negotiated with
Jeremiah Pamflett. On the night that Miser Farebrother
drove his daughter with cruel blows from Parksides, this
acceptance was within three weeks of becoming due, and
there was no prospect of meeting it.

The cause of this is easily explained.

A Heart of Gold on its first representation a failure, had
been made the talk of the town by Mr. Linton's extraordinary
speech when the audience insisted upon his appearing
before the curtain. It has already been described how the
papers took it up, and how great was the interest it excited.
For two or three weeks the Star Theatre was crowded, and
the manager advertised that seats could be booked two

months in advance. Everybody concerned in the success
of A Heart of Gold was in high feather. Kiss went about
in a state of exultation ; the company were in raptures,
discovering in the drama diamonds which they had looked
upon as paste ; the author beamed, believing that his star
had risen at last. His wife was radiant ; colour came into
her cheeks, and she visited the Lethbridges in her cotton
frock with joyful hope blooming in her eyes. Apart from
this unexpected turn in her husband's fortunes, had she not
cause to rejoice ? Her little boy was growing stronger.
Friends had come forward to assist Linton with loans of
small sums of money, to be repaid presently when the
dramatic author touched his profits. Before that fortunate
day arrived there were the expenses of the getting up of the
play to be provided for ; it was the arrangement made in
the agreement into which he had entered with the manager
of the Star Theatre. A month's good business would clear
off these expenses, and the boat would be trimmed and the
winds would be fair for the haven of rest and hope.

But that month's good business did not become an
accomplished fact. In three weeks the interest which had

been excited, and which had nothing whatever to do with
the merits of A Heart of Gold, slackened, and the audiences
followed suit. The flash of prosperity was but a flash
in the pan. The emphatic verdict of the first-night audience
that the drama was not a good drama was endorsed
by the majority of those who flocked afterward to the
theatre to judge for themselves. From a hundred pounds
a night the receipts fell to eighty, sixty, fifty, forty, and then
dwindled down infinitesimally. A Heart of Gold was not
** in " for a long run, as the elated ones declared ; it was
doomed.

Reviewing the play from a dramatic standpoint, Kiss, ina
subsequent conversation with Mr. Lethbridge, thus
summed it up : " It is a good play ; its literature is of a
high order ; it has plenty of points ; the plot is strong
enough ; the opportunities given to the actors to create
parts are capital. But, my dear sir — but — and here comes
in the fatal blemish — it has no villain. I must have been
blind not to have discovered it in time, but I was misled
by the reading. There is absolutely no villain. In a pure
comedy a mild villain is sufficient ; even that order of piece.

requires something disagreeable, something we can condemn.
But for a drama, my dear sir, for such a drama as
A Heart of Gold not only is a villain required, but a strong
villain — some damned unscrupulous scoundrel that the
audience would like to jump upon and tear to pieces.
Every character in Linton's piece is too good ; they are all
too good. There is nothing to hate. What is the consequence
? There is no contrast ; and, sir, a drama without
strong contrasts will not, cannot, please. Why ? Because
it is contrary to human nature. Never mind the colour ;
never mind the improbability of the story. Give us contrasts
; and that is exactly what Linton has not done. Love
interest — yes ? I do not know a play in which the love
interest is stronger than it is in A Heart of Gold ; and yet
it is a failure — and a failure, my dear sir, upon assured and
established grounds. I will just ask you if play-goers sympathize
with a pair of lovers because they are lovers, because
they are interesting, because they are all that is sweet, because
they are true to each other ? "

*' Yes," replied Mr. Lethbridge, in the innocence of his
heart ; " of course they do."

Not a bit of it, my dear sir," said Kiss — " not a bit of
it. They sympathize with the lovers because they are oppressed
; because a villain is trying to ruin their happiness,
is trying to separate them, is trying to blacken and damn the
young fellow. That, my dear sir, is the secret of the interest
the love-story creates. Without it the audience would
regard it as so much wash — mere milk and water. The
more the lovers are oppressed, the more the audience
sympathizes with them. Pile on the agony ; that is what a
dramatist has to do. And a curious outcome of all this is
to be found in the fact that the villain is now really the most
popular character in a play. Presently he will command a
larger salary than the leading man."

All this was very well as a matter of observation and disputation,
but it did not provide for the meeting of the
acceptance, and Mr. Lethbridge looked forward to the due
date with a feeling of terror. Kiss could not meet the bill;
Mr. Linton could not ; and he could not.

He kept the trouble to himself, and all the more did it
weigh upon him with terrible effect. The home in which
they had been so happy from the first day of their marriage

was slipping from him ; the exposure would be a disgrace ;
the chances were that he would lose his situation at the
bank ; and what would become of him after that ? He
dared not think of it. Unconsciously he paced the rooms
of the dear home, gazing at the old mementos with exaggerated
affection. They were part of his life ; to every small
item some story was attached which invested it with a sweet
and human interest. It was an additional torture that he
had kept his secret from his wife.

My dear," said his wife to him while he was dressing in
the morning, "you were very restless last night."

Was I ? " he remarked, with a guilty air.

Yes. You were tossing about for hours, and murmuring
something about a bill."

Oh," he said, " the bank business. It is beginning to
tell upon me, perhaps."

Nonsense," said Aunt Lethh ; " you want a little medicine."


"Yes," he said, meekly ; " that must be it."

I dreamt of Phoebe all night long," said Aunt Lethh.
What would I not give to see her dear farce ! "

It is strange we hear nothing of her," he observed. " It
is wearing upon Mr. Cornwall."

And upon all of us. Fanny is quite a changed girl. All
her high spirits seem to be going."

"It is terrible," said Mr. Lethbridge, absently. He loved
Phoebe devotedly, but he was thinking of the bill.

Tom Barley is going to Parksides to-night. 'Amelia
Jane says he is determined to get some news of the dear
girl."

I hope he will," said Mr. Lethbridge ; and then they
went down to breakfast.

On his way to the bank that morning he made up his mind
that before the week was out he would confide his trouble
to his wife.

O RARE TOM BARLEY !

Aunt Lethh's statement to her husband that Tom Barley was
going to Parksides to-night, and was determined to get some
news of Phoebe, was in exact accordance with that faithful
fellow's determination. Hitherto in his visits to Parksides he
had contented himself with wandering and lingering in the
vicinity of the grounds ; he had no right to enter them,
and it was a certainty that he would get himself into difficulty
if he committed a trespass. But he was now nerved to
a daring pitch, for which 'Amelia Jane slightly, and Fanny
Lethbridge largely, were responsible. By 'Amelia Jane he
was led to believe that to render his young mistress a service
which might be inestimable, and of which she stood
sorely in need, depended entirely upon himself. The nature
of this service, and the manner in which it was to be
rendered, were a mystery to the elucidation of which he

held no clue, and to all appearance he might continue to
go to Parksides for years, as he had already been doing
for months, without his being any the wiser. But Fanny
had stepped in and implored him to do something — never
mind what nor at how great a risk — to get one word from
Phoebe that he could bring back to the Lethbridges. " What
can I do, miss ? " Tom had asked. " Get inside the
grounds at night," Fanny had replied, "when Phoebe's
father and that wicked wretch, Mrs. Pamflett, are asleep.
You know the room in which my dear cousin sleeps.
Perhaps you may see a light in it — if not the first time you
go, the second, or third, or fourth. If you see a light it is
almost certain that my cousin will be awake, because she
always sleeps in the dark. Throw a little gravel up at her
window ; you will know how to act so that she shall not be
frightened. She knows your voice, and has spoken a
hundred times of your kindness to her. Tell her you come
from me and Aunt Lethh ; that we sent you. Ask her if
she wants any help. Say that we are all ready to die for
her j that we love her more than ever we did ; that we have
written again and again to her, and that we are certain that

our letters have been kept from her ; that Mr, Cornwall is
here continually, and never ceases speaking of her ; that he
is faithful and true to hers and will be all his life. Say
whatever comes into your mind, Tom, that you think will
please and comfort her, and bring us back some news of
her. Do, Tom, do ! " Fanny said much more than this,
and said it so excitedly and with so much fervour that there
was no resisting her. So Tom Barley had promised, and
he set out for Parksides determined to carry his resolution
into effect. He knew what he was risking, and that if he
were caught by Miser Farebrother or Mrs. Pamflett or
Jeremiah prowling in the grounds in the dead of the
night, he would be as good as ruined. He would be dismissed
the force, and all his bright hopes for the future
would be destroyed. These considerations, however, did
not deter him from putting his design into execution. His
love for his young mistress was too profound for him to
hesitate because there was danger ahead. All the more
reason that he should go straight on to his service of humble
love and duty.

He reached Beddington station at a few minutes past

eleven o'clock, and he walked slowly thence to Parksides,
congratulating himself that the night was dark, and that he
was therefore not likely to be recognized. By midnight he
was on the outskirts of the grounds. He was familiar with
every inch of them, and he was soon immediately outside
the old house, looking up at the windows. All was dark
and silent ; there came from within not a sound of life.
There was no light in his young mistress's room, but the white
blinds drawn down were an indication that it was inhabited.
He resolved to wait an hour or two, and then, if all still
remained silent, if no sign came to him, to make a cautious
attempt to arouse Phoebe by throwing a little light gravel
against the window-panes. He knew, also, in which room
Miser Farebrother slept, and saw that all was dark therein.
Up to this point he was safe.

He had been watching and waiting for nearly an hour
when he was startled by a circumstance which could not
but be unusual at such an hour of the night in that locality.
For a horseman to gallop along the public road would have
been reasonable enough, but for the rider to pull up immediately
outside the grounds, to alight, to tie his horse to a

hedge, to creep stealthily into the grounds, to peer around
him in the dark for several minutes, not daring to move
another step until he was convinced that he was alone and
that his movements were not observed ; then to creep on
and on into the interior of the grounds, away from the
house, to pause again and take from an inner pocket a dark
lantern, and to commence to search the earth for some mark
of which he was in quest — all this was unusual and suspicious
; but it was exactly what occurred, and the man peering
and searching, falling on his knees now and then, and
seeming to tear at the earth, was none other than Jeremiah
Pamflett ! When the sounds of the horse's feet had ceased
outside the grounds, Tom Barley had crept in that direction,
and had seen what has been described. He recognized
Jeremiah, but had not the slightest idea of the object
which had brought the schemer to Parksides at such a
strange hour. But it was not the first time that Jeremiah
had been thus engaged. He was convinced that in some
part of the grounds there was a spot in which Miser Fare-brother
had been in the habit of secreting large hoards of
money. During the last three or four months the miser

had drawn out of the bank at various times sums amounting
in the aggregate to not less than ^7,000. Information
which Jeremiah had received from his mother had forced
u^Don him this conviction of a secret hiding-place. Even
in the daylight, when he was strong enough to walk in the
open air by the aid of his crutch stick, the miser was sometimes
seen by Mrs. Pamflett creeping painfully onward in
the direction to which Jeremiah was now devoting his
attention. Lynx-eyed and fox-like in his movements.
Miser Farebrother had never failed to discover when
Mrs. Pamflett was watching him, and on every occasion
he had peremptorily sent her about her business.
He was too wary for her, but she was satisfied that he had
this secret hiding-place ; Jeremiah was satisfied of it also,
and knowing that it would not be safe for him to search for
it in daylight, he had adopted this means toward the
discovery. Had it not been that it was almost vitally
necessary that he should produce a large sum of money
by a certain date to save himself from exposure, Jeremiah
Pamflett might not have had the courage to do as he was

doing now. The career into which he had been tempted
VOL. II. 33

by Captain Ablewhite had proved singularly disastrous ; he
had " plunged " and lost, and was now engaged in the
desperate task of trying to get his money back. If not his
money, some other person's money — he scarcely cared
whose, or by what means, so long as he made himself safe ;
and surely in these midnight quests, cautious as he was,
coming out of London disguised, and always careful to
avoid observation, there was small danger of exposure.

He had not yet been successful. At first he had
searched wildly, and without any distinct plan, but of late
he had pursued the search systematically ; mapping out the
ground as it were, and examining it foot by foot ; and soon
this night when he was watched by Tom Barley, he continued
his examination. Four or five hundred yards off lay
the house, in deep shadow. From where Tom Barley and
Jeremiah Pamflett were lurking it could not be seen ; and
after Tom had been for some forty or fifty minutes observing
Jeremiah's proceedings, it occurred to him that this was not
the errand upon which he himself had come to Parksides.
He moved silently back in the direction of the house, and
started when he observed a light in the room occupied by

Miser Farebrother. Some person, therefore, must be awake
in the house. Tom felt that he was in a position of danger,
but he would not desert his post. He fancied he heard voices
proceeding from the room, but he was not sure, though his
sense of hearing was extraordinarily acute. However it was,
the impression of these real or fancied sounds did not remain
upon him. He stood in silence for a few minutes, and
then the light in the miser's room was suddenly extinguished.
All was dark within and without. He moved in the direction
of his young mistress's room ; there was no indication
that she was not asleep, and the knowledge he had gained
that Miser Farebrother was passing a restless night was a
warning not to attempt to arouse her on this occasion. He
would leave it for another time. It was now past two
o'clock. " One more peep at that scoundrel Jeremiah,"
he thought, "and then it will be as well that I should make
tracks to London." It was his intention to foot it; a walk
of ten or eleven miles was a small matter to such a pedestrian.


He did not fulfil his intention of going in search of

Jeremiah. The front of the house opened, and a figure

33-2

Staggered blindly out. Tom Barley could not distinguish
who it was, but it seemed to him that the person's movements
were wild and uncertain, and that there was in them
no attempt at concealment. The figure was approaching
in his direction, swaying this way and that, attempting to
catch at something for support ; then the arms were thrown
up, a moan of agony escaped the lips, and the figure slid
rather than fell to the ground, where it lay still and
motionless.

Tom Barley knew who it was the moment she fell. He
darted forward and bent over her. Yes, it was Phoebe, his
beloved mistress, with marks of cruel blows upon her, with
blood staining her white neck and forehead ! As he held
her on his knee he saw these marks of blows and the
oozing blood, and his heart beat with furious passion and
indignation.

This, then, had been the life of his dear mistress, the
sweetest lady the world contained ; it was for this she had
been immured in the poisonous of Parksides ! But he,
her devoted servant, was there to protect her now, and to
convey her to a place of safety !

His passion deserted him ; he became cold as ice. Had
he arrived too late ? Was she dead ?

He put his ear to her heart. No, she was not dead.
Faint as were her heart-beats, he heard them, and thanked
God!

There was no time to lose— not a moment. He would
take her at once to London, where love and truest pity
awaited her ; he would take her to the only home in which
she had had an hour's real happiness.

But how was this to be accomplished? It must be
done swiftly and in secret. There were no trains. . He
could have carried her light form easily to the station, but
it would be hours before the departure of a train to
London. There was no possibility of obtaining a conveyance
or a horse.

A horse ! An inspiration fell on him. Jeremiah's horse
was tethered a couple of hundred yards away.

Quick as thought he acted. Swiftly and tenderly he
lifted the inanimate form from the ground, swiftly and
tenderly he bore it along ; with a lightning movement he
unfastened the rope, and was on the horse's back, clasping

Phoebe closely to him. Away he galloped through the
dark night toward London !

Jeremiah raised his head. What sound was that ? The
sound of a horse galloping away. He ran to the place by
which he had fastened his horse. It was gone. " Curse
my luck ! " cried Jeremiah.

He dared not remain any longer. He must himself get
back to London, and there was nothing for it but to walk
the road. He did not doubt but that the horse had got
loose, and was running riderless. Perhaps he would catch
it up. He extinguished the light in his lantern, which he
put into his pocket, buttoning his long coat over it. Then
h? shambled on, cursing and swearing.

The rushing air played about Phoebe's face and revived
her. The horse, urged by Tom Barley, was racing like the
wind. Tom, glancing down, saw his beloved mistress's
eyes languidly open.

Don't be frightened," he whispered. " I am with you
Tom Barley ! We are riding to London. I am taking
you to your aunt's house in Camden Town."

Oh, Tom ! " she murmured ; and clasped her

trembling arms about his neck, and laid her face close
to his.

If ever a man tasted heaven on earth, Tom Barley tasted
it then.

And Phoebe ? O dolorous night, charged with woe and
pain ! O happy night, charged with visions of hope and
glory ! O blessed winds that kissed her hot and feverish
face and neck ! Loving hearts still beat for her ; loving
arms were waiting to welcome her. The sweetness overcame
her ; her eyes were filled with happy tears.

Miss Phoebe," said Tom.

"Yes, Tom?"

You must try and help yourself a bit."



I will, Tom. Tell me what to do."

In half an hour we shall be in London streets. Then

I must take you off the horse. We can't ride on it to your

aunt's door. There are reasons."
Very well, Tom."

Do you think you will be able to walk a bit ? "
I will try, Tom — and you will help me ? "
*' That I will. I could carry you, but it would draw

attention upon us. Perhaps we may get a cab. Then
there will be no difficulty."

"Tom, I will do everything you tell mc."

"Thank you, Miss Phoebe."

They hai taken the Croydon road to London Bridge,
and in half an hour, when they reached a quiet street, in
which no soul but themselves was to be seen, Tom lifted
Phoebe from the horse.

Hold on to me. Miss Phoebe, and turn your face a
bit."

She did so. With a branch which he had plucked from
the hedge and had used as a whip Tom struck the horse a
smart blow. Away it galloped with an empty saddle on its
back, and in three moments was lost to his sight.

Now, Miss Phoebe, if we can only find a cab ! "

Angel Fortune was on their side. They had taken
scarcely a dozen steps when a four-wheeler turned the corner
of the street. The bargain was soon made, and Phoebe and
Tom, safely ensconced in the cab, were on their way to
Camden Town.

"My dear'' said Aunt Lethh, shaking her husband, " the

Street-door bell has rung ; and, hark ! do you hear the loud
knocking ? What can have happened ? "

He was out of bed in a moment and gliding down the
stairs, and Aunt Lethh quickly drew on a dressing-gown, and
hastened after him.

Open the door," cried Tom Barley, outside. " It's all
right ! There's nothing to be frightened at."

Uncle Lethh threw open the door.

Aunt Lethhhh ! oh, dear Aunt Lethhhh ! " murmured Phoebe,
and fell sobbing into the good woman's arms.

Phoebe ! my poor dear Phoebe ! Oh ! look here ! look
here ! There is blood upon her ! ''

*' I am well and happy now ! " sobbed Phoebe. " Oh !
so happy ! so happy ! Dear aunt, dear uncle, don't let
them take me from you again ! "

They never shall ! they never shall ! Oh, my poor
dear ! oh, my poor dear ! "

Close, close, to the tender womanly heart, close to the
faithful breast — closer, closer, closer !

Phoebe ! " screamed Fanny, flying down the stairs. " Oh,
Phoebe ! Phoebe ! Mother, give her to me ! give her to me ! "

And here was 'Amelia Jane, in the most outrageous of
costumes, quite scandalous, indeed, running down to the
kitchen to light the fire.

I will tell you all tomorrow," said Tom Barley.
Nobody must know she is here. Good-night."

Tom ! " murmured Phoebe.

Yes, Miss Phoebe ? "

*' Good-night, Tom."

"Good-night, miss."

He took the thin white hand she held out to him. She
drew his face to hers and kissed him.

Thank you, Tom ! Oh, thank you ! "

The tender light of the coming day shone upon his
tear-stained face as he walked home to his humble bed.

-Hoe^-

A VISIT TO DONCASTER AND ITS RESULTS.

The " system " which Jeremiah Pamflett, after infinite
patience, had discovered of winning large sums of money
upon the turf did not turn out the absolute certainty which
his calculations upon paper had foreshadowed. At first all
went well ; he commenced with small amounts,, and a
peculiar run of wins in a certain direction favoured him.
For three or four weeks his good fortune continued ;
every day's results showed a balance on the right, his
lowest daily win being ;^3, his highest ;£"62. At the
end of that time he was the richer by ;£'2 8o. So far,
so good.

He did not think so ; he was mad with himself for
winning so little. That was because he had ventured so
little. " What an idiot I am ! " he groaned, in the solitude
of his bedchamber. " What an idiot ! what an idiot ! Had

I multiplied my stakes by fifty I should have won ;z^i4,ooo.
Where are my brains ? Where is my pluck ? Without
courage, no one who was not born to riches has ever made
a great fortune. And here am I wasting the precious time
and letting my opportunities slip ! ;2{^i4,ooo in four weeks.
Forty racing weeks a year, ;£ 140,000. Five years of that,
;!^7,ooo,ooo. Oh, Lord ! seven million pounds f Seven
millions ! I could double it while I was making it. Fourteen
MILLION POUNDS ! What could I do with fourteen
millions ? What could I do ? " he screamed. " What
couldn't I do ? I could turn the world topsy turvy ! I
could become anything I liked I — a Prince — a King — an
Emperor ! And all in five years from to-day — with a long
life before me to enjoy my money ! Fll do it — Fll do it —
I'll do it ! "

These contemplations turned his head. He resolved to
dash in and become a millionaire.

The race-courses upon which his initial trials were made
were situated at an easy distance from London — Kenton
Park, Sundown, Epsom.Croydon, Ascot, Hampton, Windsor,
and other such meetings, from which, when the last race was

run, he could reach Miser Farebrother's office at seven or
eight o'clock in the evening.

I'm going to commence my system in real earnest,"
said Jeremiah to Captain 'Ablewhite. " No more shilly-shallying."


Brave boy ! " replied Captain Ablewhite admiringly'.
*' Where?"

Well," questioned Jeremiah, seeking information.
"Where?"

Come with me to Doncaster," said Captain Ablewhite.
"Glorious place ! No end of swells there, waiting sto hand
you their money. A fortune ready made for you. We'll
have a rare week. I know to a certainty what's going to
win the Leger. A dark 'un."

Doncaster's a long way off," said Jeremiah ruminatively.

All the better. You can manage it : throw over the
office for five days. What is life without beer and skittles ?
You will come back rolling in money."

Jeremiah did manage it. Miser Farebrother had one of
his worst attacks, and there was no likelihood of his being
able to leave his room the Doncaster week. Away went

Jeremiah on Monday, in the company of Captain Ablewhite
and three other swells, to commence the solid foundation
of the great fortune in store for him. He had made his
preparations for the grand coup, and had possessed himself
of no less a sum than two thousand pounds in ready cash.
How he had obtained this money need not be too curiously
inquired into ; sufficient to say that it was his master's, and
that forgery was the means by which he had come into
possession of it. He had " borrowed " it for a week. When
the Doncaster Meeting was over, he would be able to replace
it. He had confided to his mother that he was leaving
London for a few days, and had instructed her to communicate
regularly with him at Doncaster, giving her the
address of an inn at which he and Captain Ablewhite
intended to stop. She had implored him to confide in her
the nature of the business which took him away ; but he
was obdurate, and he sternly refused to let her into the
secret.

"All it is necessary for you to know," he said to her, " is
that when you see me next I shall have twenty thousand
pounds of my own."

Don't run yourself into danger," she begged. " Oh,
Jeremiah, be careful ! "

Let me alone for that," he replied. " I know what I'm
about."

On the road to Doncaster he played " Nap " with Captain
Ablewhite and his swell friends, crown points, and when
the train reached its destination he had won over forty
pounds.

"A good commencement," he said to himself, elated at
his good fortune.

"You have the luck of the devil," said one of the losers
to him. " How do you manage it ? "

Jeremiah smiled as he packed his winnings away.

It is my opinion," observed Captain Ablewhite pleasantly,
"that Mr. Pamflett has made a bargain with the old
gentleman. Everything he touches turns to gold."

On the following day Jeremiah, on the racecourse, commenced
to plunge, and after a martingale of six series of
bets on six races found himself a loser of eleven hundred
pounds. He was desperately frightened. He went carefully
over his " system," and it was small satisfaction to

him to prove that lie had not made a mistake. Wha*:
should he do ? Leave off, or go on ? There was no choice
for him. He 7;iusf go on ; he 7/iust get back the money he
had lost. It was not possible that he should continue to
lose. The money would be sure to come back. He
infused false courage into his trembling body by drinking
brandy.

"A bad day," said Captain Ablswhite.

"What's the odds?" cried Jeremiah, emptying his glass.
*' It's only lent."

Bravo I " exclaimed Captain Ablewhite. " You've got
the right sort of stuff in you. You'll break the ring."

They played " poker" that night, and Jeremiah, by boldness,
won back two hundred of the eleven. This put spirit
into him. " It is all right," he thought. " I'll make them
sing small before I've done with them."

On the racecourse again he continued his " system " —
lost on the first race of the day, lost on the second, and lost
on the Leger. The ** dark " horse, which Captain Ablewhite
was certain would win, came in fourth. The carrying out
of Jeremiah's " system " now required very heavy stakes,

He walked about the ring, muttering to himself, and
studying his card. " Shall I do it ? shall I do it ? " he
muttered, in a state of indecision. He knew exactly what
his " system " demanded. There was the horse, and .there
the jockey ; did he dare to back them for the four hundred
pounds ? As he was hesitating and dallying, two men,
whispering, brushed past him. He heard what they said.
They've squared it : it's a moral. Now's the time ; I'm
going nap on Morning Light."

Morning Light ! Morning Light ! The man was going

nap on Morning Light. Was there ever a straighter tip ?

It was not the horse his " system " proclaimed he should

back ; but he could never forgive himself if he neglected

the tip so fortuitously imparted to him. " It is sure to
VOL. II. 34

win ; it is sure to win," muttered Jeremiah ; and in a fit of
nervous desperation he put his money on Morning Light.
He could not get the odds to the amount from one bookmaker,
but he got them from four good men and true, to
whom he intrusted the last of his new crisp bank-notes.
He stood to win three thousand eight hundred pounds.
That will put me eighteen hundred on the right side," he
muttered, "and my four hundred that I shall get back, that
will be two thousand two hundred."

So great was his agitation that he walked out of the ring,
and tried not to think of the race till it was over.

Hallo, my buck ! " cried Captain Ablewhite, clapping
him on the shoulder just as he passed through the gate.
How are we getting along ? Do you know anything ?
What have you backed ? "

But Jeremiah would not allow the name of the horse to
pass consciously from his lips. He had a superstitious fear
that it would bring him bad luck ; he mumbled some indistinct
words, and staggered away. Captain Ablewhite
looked after him and smiled.

How was it that in a few moments Jeremiah found himself

back in the ring again ? He could not tell, except
that he was impelled by a terrible force which seemed to
deprive him of self-control. His eyes blazed, his tongue
clave to the roof of his mouth. All at once he was standing
before the bar calling for brandy. He drank it neat,
and called for another glass and another, which he tossed
off. The ringing of a bell and cries of, "They're off ! "
dragged him to the grand stand ; but though he strained
his eyes and looked in the direction of the running horses
he could not see them. They were all mixed up in seemingly
inextricable confusion. A man close to him shouted,
Tricksy wins ! Tricksy wins, for a pony ! " Tricksy ! It
was the horse he ought to have backed. " You're a damned
liar ! " He thought he had screamed the words aloud, but
only a gurgling, inarticulate sound had escaped him.
From a hundred throats came the cries, " Tricksy wins !
Tricksy wins ! Tricksy wins ! " The horses rushed past
the post, and the race was over.

Jeremiah wiped the perspiration from his face, and dug
his handkerchief in his eyes to clear them. The winning
numbers were going up, and he saw them in a red mist.

Tricksy first, Bamboo second, Moselle third. Morning
Light nowhere.

What a cursed fool he had been ! Fortune was within
his grasp, and he had missed it — had wilfully thrown it
away. His " system " pointed unerringly to the backing
of Tricksy, and he had allowed himself to be turned from
the certainty by a casual whisper. No, not casual ; it was
a plot to ruin him ; it had been done purposely to destroy
him. And here was Captain Ablewhite at his elbow
again.

Was there ever such infernal luck ? " the Captain was
saying to him. " I had the tip before I came on the course,
and I go and back Moselle. I've no head, no head ! Oh,
if I only had your clear brain ! No use growling, though ;
it won't mend matters. Better luck next time. None but
the brave deserve the — mosses. But I say, old fellow,
you look, upset. You don't mean to say you didn't back
Tricksy ! Why you told me after the second race that
mathematically, it couldn't lose, and I said to myself,
*Pamflett '11 back Tricksy, and I'll back Moselle. If
Moselle wins, I can let Pamflett have a few hundreds

to go on with. If Tricksy wins, he can oblige me.' You
can't eh ? "

No, I can't," said Jeremiah in a hoarse tone. " I didn't
back it."

*' You didn't back it ! " exclaimed Captain Ablewhite,
with an amazed look. *' What did you back, then ? "

Morning Light."

Morning Light ! Have you lost your wits ? Why, old
chap, he was never meant ! I could have told you that if
you had asked me. He's going to win the Cambridgeshire.
Upon my soul, this is the best thing I've heard for a rjionth."

'' I don't think so."

How much did you back him for ? "

Four hundred."

Captain Ablewhite whistled. "Well, it's no use crying
over spilt milk. There's one good thing — the game's alive.
You can pull it back with interest, and you are not the
man I take you for if you don't do it. What does it
matter to you, a thousand or two ? These things happen
to all of us. I remember last year at Ascot — but it's no
good raking it up. It knocked me over for a month, I can

tell you that. From what I can understand of your system
it's when you risk the most you win the most. Isn't it ? "

Yes," groaned Jeremiah.

I thought so. Now if you had backed Tricksy, what
would you have won ? "

Nearly five thousand," groaned Jeremiah.

By all that's wonderful ! And you didn't follow it out !
But I'm a nice one, I am, to preach ! " And then Captain
Ablewhite said, playfully, " Don't you let me catch you at
it again ! "

I won't," groaned Jeremiah.

The beauty of the thing is, as I have said," continued
Captain Ablewhite, "that the game's alive. It's always
alive, and waiting for us. What is one miss ? You can
snap your fingers at it. All you've got to do is to increase
your stake the next time. Old fellow, I give you my
solemn word there's only one thing in life worth living for,
and that is horse-racing and betting on it. If it was
abolished, there are a thousand men in England who
would put a bullet through their heads tomorrow ; and I'd
be one of them — I would ! It isn't called a Royal sport

for nothing. There never was anything like it, and there
never will be anything like it. Great Scot ! the fortunes
I've seen lost and won ! Come and have some fizz."

Jeremiah went and had some fizz, and then Captain
Ablewhite asked him what his trouble was.

*' I've lost all the ready money I brought with me," said
Jeremiah.

*' What of that ? You want to go on betting ? "

"Yes."

"Give me," said Captain Ablewhite, "your I O U for a
thou." ^

What with his despair, and the mixed liquors he had imbibed,
Jeremiah scarcely knew what he was doing; and
under Captain Ablewhite's directions he wrote and signed
an I O U for ;£"i,ooo, which the gallant Captain comfortably
deposited in his pocket-book.

Come with me," said Captain Ablewhite. " By Jove !
the numbers are going up."

Jeremiah went with him, and was introduced to a bookmaker,
to whom Captain Ablewhite whispered a few words.

All right. Captain," said the book-maker. " The gentleman's

name is good enough ; but I thought he was quite
a different sort of man."

Captain Ablewhite nodded, and took Jeremiah aside.

Make your bets with him," said the Captain, in a low
tone, " in the name of Farebrother. You've got Fare-brother's
cards about you ; give him one. Before the
meeting is over you will be in clover. You can bet with
him without staking a shilling."

But on the Friday morning of the Doncaster Meeting
Jeremiah was in anything but clover. He was tossing
about on a bed of nettles.

END OF VOL. II.

Pi

UNIVERSITY OP ILUNOI9-URIANA

0112 045831440

4 ^''O

rAl^EBROTHE^

3! Z. /-APJfoM

MIRACLE GOLD. By Richard Dowung. 3 vol?.

IDLE TALES. By Mrs. Liddell. 1 vol.

MOLLY'S STORY. By Frank MERKypiELn. 8 vols.

FOR FREEDOM. By Tight Hopkins. 2 vols.

LADY STELLA AND HER LOVER. By H. Solly. :} vols.

A VOICE IN THE Wilderness. By Caroline

FOTHERRILL. '■) VOls.

% Mobtl

BY

B. L. FAEJEON,

AUTHOR OP
GREAT PORTER SQUARE," "GRIP," " IN A SILVER SEA." "THE House
OP WHITE SHADOWS," ETC.

IN Three VOLUMES.

VOL. III.

WARD & DOWNEY,
12, YORK STREET, Covent GARDEN.

1888.
[dramatic rn/hf-t jivofcotcd and rrsrvrt'd.']

CON TENTS

fi

CHAP.

I. — A Bad Business
II. — The Diamond Bracelet

III, — Sister AND Brothel

IV. — Jeremiah in Tribulation .
V. — Miser Farrbrothbr threatens Jeremiah .
VI, — A Dream of an Angel
VII, — Better than any Day-dream
VIII, — PiicEBE IN Peril . . . ,

IX. — Fred Cornwall to the Rescue

X. — The Inquest , , , .

XI. — The Trial and Verdict — Extracted from

Popular Daily Paper .
XII. — Dick G-arden to the Rescue
XIII. — The Diamond Bracelet again
XIV. — Richards Garden makes the Acquaintance of

Fanny Lethbridge
XV. — A Strange Experiment
XVI, — Jeremiah and his Mother Disappear
XVII, — Chiefly concerning Fanny
XVIII. — A Life and Death Struggle
XIX. — Off for the Honeymoon .

page

I



i8










u8












:o:

CHAPTER I.

A BAD BUSINESS.

At ten o'clock on this morning Captain Ablewhite, unannounced,
and without knocking at the door, walked into
Jeremiah's room in the hotel at which he had taken uji his
quarters. Jeremiah was still in bed. Closing the door
carefully behind him and turning the key, Captain Able-white
drew a chair to the side of the bed and sat down.

"This is a bad business," said Captain Ablewhite.

Jeremiah was in a parlous condition. His face was
haggard ; his eyes were bloodshot ; he was shaking like a
man in a palsy.

"This is a bad business," repeated Captain Ablewhite,.

"You are too much upset to reply. But why, oh, ivy

have you lost your head ? "

VOL. III. 35

Jeremiah put his hand up, feebly and despairingly, and
passed it vacantly over his forehead.

'*I have here," said Captain Ablewhite, plunging his
hands into the pockets of his gorgeous dressing-gown,
"a pick-me-up. It will pull you round, and then we can
talk."

He produced two bottles — one containing the pick-me-up,
the other soda. Taking a large tumbler from a table he
poured a good dose of the pick-me-up into it, and then uncorked
the soda, which he emptied into the glass.

"Drink this."

Jeremiah drank it, and almost instantly became for a
while clear-brained.

Better ? " asked Captain Ablewhite.

"A great deal better," replied Jeremiah.

Then, for the third time, the jovial Captain — he was as
fresh as a two-year-old — said, " This is a bad business."

And still, clear-headed as he now was, Jeremiah did not
know what to say in answer to a very plain statement of
fact.

"Let me see," said Captain Ablewhite, taking out his

pocket-book. "There is nothing like looking a difficulty
straight in the face. It is not a bit of good shirking it.
What you've got to do is to meet it — and, Mr. Jeremiah
Pamflett, meet it you must. Now, then, for the facts.
You brought down with you to Doncaster a very comfortable
sum of ready money. How much ? "

"Two thousand pounds," replied Jeremiah.

That is right. Speak clearly and plainly. Two thousand
pounds. If I had that in my pocket at the present
moment, I would double it before the day is over. There's
a race to be run — however, let that pass." *

What race ? " cried Jeremiah. " Is it a certainty ? "

It is a certainty," said Captain Ablewhite, solemnly.
I've got the tip for the Scurry Stakes, my lad, and the
horse can't lose."

But why not give it to me ? " asked Jeremiah, in great
excitement. " I could make everything right — everything
— everything " His voice trailed off into a

whimper.

Why don't I give it to you ? " said Captain Ablewhite,

very calmly. " Because I am beginning to lose my opinion

35-2

of you. Let me tell you, though : you may justify it yet if

you are not thoroughly white-livered."

*' I will, I will !" exclaimed Jeremiah. "Only give me
the tip — give me the tip ! "

Not if I know it. This little affair I will keep to myself,
and I'll sweep the market. You've let too many good
things slip by this week. Come, now, confess : if you had
stuck to your ' system,' how much would you have won ?
Don't put me off. You've gone all through it, and you
know the figures to the fraction of a shilling."

Jeremiah struck his forehead with his hand. " I should
have won seven thousand pounds."

** Exactly. And you did not win it because you weren't
game, and because you allowed yourself to be led away.
What is the good of a man unless he has the courage of
his opinions ? Before midnight I'm going to try you ; I'm
going to see whether you're worth trying to save (because
you are in a frightful hole, you know, and there's no telling
what will happen to you if you continue to show the white
feather), or whether I shall let you go to the dogs. It
depends upon me, old chap. Oppose me, show ingratitude,

try to prove that you're cleverer than I am, and the odds
are that you will have seven years — not less — perhaps fourteen.
Oh, you are clever, you are ! Make no mistake,
you are clever ; but you want nerve ! Why, if you had
been open with me — if you had told me honestly what your
system was — we might both have made fortunes. But
that's neither here nor there. Things are as they are, aren't
they ? "

*' Yes, they are," sighed Jeremiah.

Shall I go on ? "

*eyes." •

*' Well, then. You brought down two thousand pounds
with you, and you blued it. Eh ? "

"Yes."

"I don't ask you where you got the money from. It is
no business of mine, and I will have nothing to do with it.
I have my ideas, but I'll keep them to myself. Having
lost your two thousand pounds, you get me to introduce
you to a book-maker, who took your bets in the expectation
of paying you if you won, and receiving from you if
you lost. And you did business with him in a false name."

I didn't get you," protested Jeremiah ; " you offered
to introduce me ; and it was at your suggestion I used the
name of Farebrother."

Captain Ablewhite rose and said, " Good-morning."

No, no," cried Jeremiah, piteously ; " don't desert me ! "

Did I introduce you, or did you ask me to introduce
you ? " demanded Captain Ablewhite.

I asked you — I asked you ! " whined Jeremiah.

*' And did you use Farebrother's name upon my suggestion?
Be careful, old chap."

At my own suggestion," faltered Jeremiah.

Good," said Captain Ablewhite, resuming his seat.
"You made bets with him, and you are in his books over
three thousand pounds. Is that correct ? "

'eyes."

"I have I O U's for another two thousand pounds. Is
that correct ? "

'eyes."

It is a satisfaction. You hold acceptances of mine for
close on that amount, and the entire amount of cash I have
received from you is about one-fourth of that amount."

Business is business," groaned Jeremiah.

"All right. I didn't complain, and I don't. You and

I are pretty well squared on that account. Taking it altogether,

you have lost this week some seven thousand

pounds, when you might have won as much."

Oh, Lord ! " gasped Jeremiah.

You may clasp your head till you're blue in the face,
and f/iaf won't get you out of the hole. Do you want to
get out of it ? "

Yes ; of course I do."

"Then," said Captain Ablewhite, enigmatically, "take
the 1.33 train to London. You will get there at five o'clock.
Have a bath and a sensible dinner, and meet me outside
the Langham Hotel, on the opposite side of the road, at
nine o'clock to-night. It may be in my power to save you.
No words. If you do not obey me I have done with you.
Yes or no ? "

Yes," said Jeremiah.

THE DIAMOND BRACELET.

This was to be a night of surprising adventure to Jeremiah.
He was punctual to time. As the church clock
struck the hour of nine he arrived at the Langham Hotel,
and in accordance with Captain Ablewhite's instructions,
waited on the opposite side of the road. There was no
moon, and he paced the flag-stones in shadow. A quarter
past nine, half-past, three-quarters past, then the chiming
of ten o'clock, and still no Captain. Jeremiah was in a
bewilderment of agonized suspense ; he was on the brink
of a precipice, and he relied upon Captain Ablewhite to
save him — by what means he knew not, but he depended
upon the Captain's word. " He is detained," thought
Jeremiah ; " the train is late ; he is not a punctual man ;
perhaps he said ten o'clock instead of nine. At all events,
I'll wait for him." The minutes sped on ; a quarter past

ten, half past, three-quarters past, and now another hour
had passed. It was eleven o'clock, and Jeremiah, worked
up into a state of terrible excitement, continued to pace up
and down, up and down. Two or three times a policeman,
attracted by his monotonous movements, strolled past, and
carelessly looked at him ; and on these occasions Jeremiah
strove to hide" his face from the policeman's scrutiny.
Will he never come ? " thought Jeremiah — " will he never
come ? " At half-past eleven a singular incident occurred.
A voice at his back accosted him. It was a woman's
voice. »

Don't turn," the woman said. "Your name is Pam-fleet?"


Yes'' answered Jeremiah, much amazed.

You are waiting for some one ? "

"Yes."

For whom ? "

Captain Ablewhite."

That is right. Take this."

The woman slipped a packet into his hand and was gone.
Jeremiah, turning, saw no trace of her. No time was

afforded him for reflection. The Captain's voice struck
upon his ear.

*' Follow me," it said.

Without the evidence of the voice Jeremiah would not
have recognized Captain Able-.vhite, who was enveloped ina
large Inverness cape, and upon whose head was a hat
unlike that which he usually wore. He followed the Captain,
who walked very fast, until they reached a narrow street at
some distance from the Langham. It was a thoroughfare
which appeared to be quite deserted.

"Well, old fellow?" said Captain Ablewhite.

Well ? " responded the mystified Jeremiah.

"Couldn't help being late. Knew you would wait tor
me. Ah ! you have the packet, I see."

'* This ? " said Jeremiah.

"Yes, this;" and Captain Ablewhite took it from his
hands.

It was given to me by a woman, who hid herself from
me. What is the meaning of it ? "

You will know soon enough. Go and fetch a four-wheeler
■'

Jeremiah departed, and returned with the conveyance.

Give the driver this half-sovereign," whispered Captain
Ablewhite. " Tell him it is on account, and that he has a
good fare. Instruct him to drive along the Finchley road.
No questions, old chap ; do as I bid you."

Jeremiah followed out the instructions, and the next
moment he and Captain Ablewhite were in the cab.

No place like a four-wheeler," said the Captain, " for an
interchange of confidences. Give me your closest attention,
friend Jeremiah. You're in luck's way. Being in one of
those awkward fixes which invariably land a fellow in jail
and ruin him for ever and ever, amen ! something has
turned up to save you. This is the way of it — but before I
go into the matter you are to understand that you are to
make no inquiries. What I choose to impart I will impart
nothing more. Do you agree ? "
"Yes."

To proceed, then. A lady friend of mine — call her a
Duchess — has pressing need for a large sum of money, and
has only one means of raising it. The amount she requires
is four thousand pounds, and she has handed you jewels

worth ten times as much. In a month from this date the
four thousand will be repaid with interest, and the jewels
will be handed back to her. They are in this packet.
Seeing's believing; you shall see them."

He unfastened the packet, and took a morocco case from
the wrapper. Then he produced a box of wax tapers,
which he gave to Jeremiah, bidding him to keep up a light,
in order that he might have a good view of the jewels. He
nicked the morocco case open, and exposed to view a
bracelet of diamonds of such extraordinary size that
Jeremiah could not help giving utterance to an exclamation
of astonishment.

"You may well cry out," said Captain Ablewhite. "The
stones, if they're worth a penny, are worth fifty thousand
pounds. Do you wish to know how I became associated
with the affair ? Well, I've no objection to tell you.
The fact is, the Duchess is an old flame of mine. An
antique Duke falling in love with her, and being in his
dotage, I naturally consent to the marriage. But she is an
awfully extravagant woman, and needing instantly the sum
of money I mentioned, comes to me. * I have a friend,' I

say to her, ' in the money-lending way, who, if you give
him security, will obtain millions for you.' Whereupon she
says she will leave her wonderful diamond bracelet with my
friend until she pays back the four thousand with ample
interest. That will be your profit, Jeremiah. She dare not
pledge these diamonds in the regular way with the men
who deal regularly in such affairs. It would come to her
husband's ears ; and although the diamonds are hers, to do
as she likes with, there is the future to be considered. The
Duke makes her a handsome allowance ; he has drawn up
his will, leaving her as much as it is in his power to do he
is a very jealous, irascible, pompous-headed old idiot, and
it is therefore imperative that this little matter shall be
negotiated in such a way as to render it impossible it can
come to his knowledge. He brings his wife to London
this evening; his town mansion is not in a fit state to
receive his noble carcass, so his wife drives him to the
Langham. She knows from me that a friend — you,
Jeremiah — is waiting outside the hotel ; she comes to you,
addresses you, slips her bracelet into your hand, and
vanishes. What confidence ! What imprudence ! Dear

little soul ! As for the interest, charge her sixty, eighty, a
hundred per cent. Yes, charge her a hundred. It won't
come out of her pocket, it will come out of the Duke's.
But,' say you, ' / haven't the money to advance ; I'm
clean stumped.' That need not stop the cart, friend
Jeremiah. What you have to do is to go to your governor,
Farebrother, and show him these diamonds. If the sight
of them doesn't set his thin blood in a glow, nothing will.
You say to him, ' The lady requires six thousand pounds
on them for a month. She will give one thousand pounds
interest.' That is at the rate of two hundred per cent, per
annum, friend Jeremiah. You continue : ' If the money is
not repaid at the end of the month, the diamonds are
yours ; they become forfeited. Here is a letter from her to
that effect.' I will give it to you presently, Jeremiah, and
you can hand it to the governor. He won't be able to
resist the bait. How about the ready ? Can he lay hands
on it ? "

He has bonds that he can sell," replied Jeremiah.

** Good. You can manage that for him. Now, how do
you benefit by the transaction ? First and foremost, you

get six thousand pounds from the governor ; you hand me
four and keep two. From what you let drop, friend
Jeremiah, you need some such sum of ready money to
replace the cash you lost at Doncaster. Well, there you
have it, and you will be spared acquaintance with the
criminal court. In a month you will receive four thousand
pounds interest on the loan, of which you hand the governor
one thousand, retaining three, which you jay to me off
what you owe the book-maker. To oblige me, he will wait.
The personal accounts between you and me we will go into
by-and-by. You see, friend Jeremiah, something very "disagreeable,
shockingly disagreeable, stares you in the face,
and this is the only way out of it. I shall expect you to
show your gratitude. That such a slice of luck should fall
to you just in the nick of time is nothing less than miraculous.
Now, then, how does the thing strike you? Fare-brother
will lend the money, won't he ? If he doesn't, or if
you have any doubt of it, I can take the diamonds somewhere
else."

'■ I don't think," said Jeremiah, slowly, " that there is any
doubt he will lend the money."

Very well, then. Carry it through, and keep it dark.
See the governor tomorrow and arrange it. You'll doit
? "

"Yes."

There's nothing more to say, then. Just see the confidence
I have in you, leaving you this treasure without so
much as a receipt for it. But I know you can be trusted
just now, because of the fix you're in. I must see you tomorrow
night to hear what you have to tell. Best not to
meet at my place or yours till this little matter is concluded.
Say at ten o'clock, just outside Whitechapel Church."

You will be punctual ? " said Jeremiah.

Oh yes," said Captain Ablewhite, laughing ; " I will be
punctual. Ta-ta ! Call to the driver to stop."

He jumped from the cab as the driver was pulling up,
leaving Jeremiah to make his way back to London alone.

On the following night, at ten o'clock, they met outside
Whitechapel Church, and Jeremiah informed Captain Able-white
that Miser Farebrother had consented to lend the
money. On Tuesday evening Captain Ablewhite received
four thousand pounds from Jeremiah, and the gallant

Captain walked off with a very peculiar smile on his face.
A few hours afterward he was whirling away in the night
train to Dover, bound for Italy.

VOL III.



SISTER AND BROTHER.

For a fortnight after Phoebe reached the haven of love in
Camden Town she lay between life and death. It was
only when she felt herself out of danger that her strength
gave way. The strain of the last few months in Parksides
produced a dangerous illness, and for many days her life
was despaired of. How tenderly was she nursed ! What
treasures of love surrounded her ! She was not left alone
a minute by day and night. Now it was Aunt Lethh who
watched by her bedside, now it was Fanny, now it was
Uncle Lethh. In some dim way she was conscious of this
spiritual comfort, and it helped her recovery. On the
twelfth day the doctors proclaimed her to be out of
danger.

The Lethbridges could ill afford the expenses of her
sickness. There was the regular family doctor to be paid ;

there were the fees of the celebrated physician who was
called in, and who came in a carriage and pair with two
footmen ; there were the prescribed delicacies to be provided
for. It was all done cheerfully and with full-hearted
affection. Sacrifices were made ; money was raised upon
such small articles of jewelry as they possessed, even Uncle
Lethh's old-fashioned watch went, and not a murmur passed
their lips, not a regretful thought at the loss of these treasures
crossed their minds. They had but one hope, but
one desire — that they might succeed in saving their beloved
girl. It was granted them, and she sat in a dressing-gown
in the dear little parlour, the very walls of which were
sanctified in her eyes.

They did not dare to speak to her of her father, nor did
she refer to him ; but it needed no words from her to make
them understand the cruel torture and oppression which,
prolonged for a few weeks longer, would have brought
death or madness to her. When she was convalescent
her actions were pitiful : she clung to her friends ; her hands
were for ever seeking theirs ; her eyes constantly travelled

to the dear ones who were ministering to her, and whose

36—2

eyes never rested on her pale face without a tender, cheery
smile.

Fred Cornwall came daily, morning and evening, with
flowers and jellies and things which it was not possible for
her to eat. He had not been allowed to see her yet ; but he
always left his constant love for his dear girl, and messages
which it would have occupied an hour to deliver. When
Phoebe was sensible and strong enough, these messages, ina
reasonable form, were conveyed to her, and her relatives
were surprised at the grave pleasure with which she received
them. The heavenly delight which fills a young girl's heart
when, in a time of bitter trouble, she is assured that her
lover is true to her was not expressed in her face. Pleasure
she felt; but it was a thoughtful pleasure in which
there seemed to be an element of pain.

He is true to you ! he is true to you ! " whispered
Fanny to her. " Oh ! you should see him, Phoebe. Except
my dear father, there is not a better man in the
whole wide world."

I am sure," said Phoebe, quietly, "that Mr. Cornwall is
a good man, and my earnest hope is that he will be happy."

'phoebe!"

Yes, dear."

Not Mr. Cornwall — Fred — your own dear Fred ! "
Phoebe did not reply, and Fanny continued : " He is
certain to be happy, with you ! "

And still Phoebe made no reply. Fanny was greatly disturbed,
and she told her mother privately that she was
convinced there was something on Phoebe's mind with
respect to Fred.

"Do not worry her or argue with her," Aunt Lethh said.
Remember the sufferings she has endured, and leave it
to herself to confide in us. Time will bring happiness to
her bruised heart."

Ask her to see Fred, mamma."

She will see him this evening, my dear ; she told me so ;
and I have written a note to him desiring him to come early."

"Then everything will be right," said Fanny. " Mamma,
is it not strange that we do not hear from her father ? He
must know that Phoebe is with us."

*' He does know, Fanny. I wrote to him, but I have
not received a reply."

I am glad of it. Phoebe is now entirely ours, and will
live with us all her life — that is, till she marries Fred."

Fred Cornwall arrived early in the afternoon, and Aunt
Lethh opened the door for him.

She will see me, Aunt Lethh ? " he said, eagerly.
" Yes, Fred. She wishes to see you alone. You must
be very gentle and quiet with her."

Indeed I will be that. Here is some jelly, the kind she
likes best."

Thank you, Fred. Wait a moment in the dining-room.
Fanny is with her, and I must call her away."

Presently Fred Cornwall entered the room in which
Phoebe was sitting. She looked at him gratefully and
tenderly ; an angelic spirit of resolution was depicted in
her face.

Phoebe, my darling Phoebe ! " he murmured, as he sat
by her side and took her hand ; and then he was overcome
by her delicate, fragile appearance, and it was as much
as he could do to prevent the tears running down his
face.

She gently disengaged her hand.

Why do you take your hand away, Phoebe ? Let me
hold it. Give it to me of your own free-will."

No, Mr. Cornwall," she said, in a low, sweet tone. " I
cannot — I must not."

Again " Mr. Cornwall " ! He looked at her reproachfully.

Do you no longer love me, Phoebe, that you are so
changed toward me ? "

She was compelled to pause before she could answer him.

You must not ask me to reply to that question," she
then said — " for pity's sake ! " ■

"I muss ask you," he said, impetuously. "Oh, I-beg
your pardon, Phoebe ! Aunt Lethh enjoined upon me to be
gentle with you, and here am I forgetting! But Phoebe,
dear Phoebe, piy Phoebe — consider ! I implore you to consider
! You gave me your heart, as I have given you mine.
Have I done anything to forfeit your love ? "

Nothing," she said.

Why, then, are you so strange to me? Why have you
altered so?"

I am not altered to you," she said.

Then you love me still ! " he cried.

Will you listen to me ? " she asked, " I have been
trying to strengthen myself for this meeting, and you must
not weaken me. No ; do not kiss me ! There is something
that f?iust be told — that you must hear ! "

I will listen to you, my darling — mine, and no other
man's. You do not love another, Phoebe ? "

No, Fred." She was not aware that she had uttered the
dear name.

I am happy," he said. " Go on, my dear."

Then she told him of the oath her father had extracted
from her that she would not marry without his consent,
and said that, with that oath upon her conscience, she
could not expect Fred to be bound to her.

*'To receive you as my lover," she said, "would be, to
my mind, as if I am spiritually breaking the oath I have
sworn. It would make me feel guilty ; it would lower me in
my own esteem ; it would be playing with my conscience."

When you took the oath, Phoebe," said Fred Cornwall,
immensely relieved, but at the same time perplexed, by the
revelation, " you were not aware what you were binding
yourself to ? "

** I was not aware of it," she said. " My father spoke so
kindly to me, and seemed to regard you with such favour,
that I thought he intended to sanction our engagement.
But he may not have known what was in my mind, as assuredly
I did not know what was in his. It is not for me
to say, and you must not press me. I am striving to do
what is right. Help me to do it ! I am bound by my
oath. Without my father's consent I cannot marry you ;
he will never give it, and while he lives we can be nothing
to each other. I have thought of it — oh, so seriously ! —
and I have decided in what I believe to be the right vi^y.
If in the future I am ever in your mind, I wish you to
think of me with respect."

Through all the future that is before me," said Fred,
you will be ever in my mind, and I shall ever think of
you with respect. If my love needed strengthening, what
you have said would strengthen it ; but it can never be
stronger, more devoted, more complete than it is ; nothing
can make it so ; and nothing can weaken it. ' Give me
your hand, Phoebe'" She looked at him pleadingly.
Give me your hand, Phoebe." She gave it to him. " I

swear to you solemnly, on my honour as a man, on my
faith as a Christian, that I will never marry another woman.
May misfortune pursue and overtake me quickly if I ever
prove false to the love I have given you ! Have you anything
to say to me, Phoebe ? "

She understood him. He had given her a solemn pledge.
He had a right to a similar pledge from her.

If I do not marry you," she said, "I will never marry.
Though we may be parted for life, I will be true to the love
I have given you. And now " — she held out her arms imploringly
— " strengthen me, Fred ! "

He rose, and stood apart from her, with his face averted.
Presently he resumed his seat by her side.

"Until a happier day arrives," he said, taking her unresisting
hand, " we will not meet as lovers. We are brother
and sister. Kiss me, Phoebe."

She kissed him, and he kissed her. Thus the faithful
compact was made.

Before the week was at an end, Fred wrote the following
letter to Miser Farebrother :

"Sir, — Your daughter has told me of the oath she took
that she will never marry without your consent. She feels
herself bound by this oath, and will adhere to it. Thus,
while you live, a Use of unhappiness is before her, if you
refuse to give your consent to our union. She loves me,
and I love her with a most perfect love. We have pledged
ourselves anew to each other, but are both clear upon the
point that we cannot be wed without your sanction. I ask,
I implore, you to give it. I am not a rich man ; but I have
a good position and the prospect of a prosperous future is
before me. My family is a family of standing, and is
honoured and respected. If you will permit me, I will
send you credentials of my character, with which you cannot
fail to be satisfied. Into my union with your daughter
the question of money does not enter. We shall be satisfied
to work our way without help from you in a money
shape, either now or hereafter. To this I am prepared to
bind myself by written document ; and all that a man can
do to make the woman he loves happy, that I will do to
the utmost extent of my power. Respectfully and humbly,
I beg of you to release your daughter from her oath, and to

bestow upon her a happiness for which she and I will be
ever grateful. I remain, sir, faithfully and obediently yours,

"Frederick Cornwall."

The letter was despatched, and day after day Fred looked
eagerly for an answer to it. But none came.

There arrived, however, at Aunt Lethh's house a paper for
Phoebe, in her father's writing. It was not signed, nor was
she addressed in it by name. This was its purport :

I have received from a certain Mr. Frederick Cornwall
a letter in which he asks me to release you from a solemn
oath you voluntarily took, and to give my consent to your
marriage with him. This I will never do, nor will I ever
release you from your oath. In that oath was comprised
a daughter's duty to her father — a duty you have wilfully
and systematically neglected and failed to perform. Your
guilty desires can only be accomplished by my death.
When you are prepared to obey me in the one wish of my
life, you can come to me — not until then."

JEREMIAH IN TRIBULATION.

Jeremiah Pamflett, owing the book-maker with whom he
made his bets at Doncaster over three thousand pounds,
very soon made the disagreeable discovery that Captain
Ablewhite had played him false. He had made no arrangement
with the book-maker to give Jeremiah time to settle,
and Jeremiah himself personally was compelled to arrange
with the man to whom he owed so large an amount of
money. He found it no easy task. The book-maker
bullied and blustered and threatened exposure, and the
result was that Jeremiah had to part not only with acceptances
of his own by which he was bound to pay sums at
stated periods, but also with all the securities he held on
his own account from persons with whom he had had
private business. Among these acceptances was Mr. Lethbridge's
for three hundred pounds, which Jeremiah had discounted

for Kiss and the dramatic author, and which in a
very short time would be due.

The terror of this acceptance weighed most heavily upon
Uncle Lethh. As the day approached upon which it was
necessary it should be paid, his fears increased to an
almost unbearable pitch. He had written to Jeremiah
Pamflett asking for renewal, and the answer he received
was to the effect that the acceptance was in the hands of
another person, and that it would have to be paid on the
day of maturity. The reason of Uncle Lethh writing this
letter to Jeremiah was that in interviews with Kiss and
Mr. Linton they mournfully declared their inability to
raise the smallest sum to help Uncle Lethh in his difficulty.
They were overwhelmed with self-reproaches, but this did
not help Uncle Lethh in his difficulty, nor stave off
impending ruin. Uncle Lethh had succeeded in discovering
the name of the man who held the bill; he
had appealed to him in vain for renewal. "The
acceptance will have to be met," said the book-maker.
*' If it is not, I shall sell you up. I have ascertained
that you hold a responsible position in a bank. Ask

the manager to advance you the money if you happen to
be short yourself."

To ask the bank manager to assist him in paying an

acceptance held by a racing man would be to ask for his

dismissal. It would be tantamount to a confession that he

had been indulging in that worst of vices — betting on

horses.

Uncle Lethh had confided to his wife, and she, although
she strove to comfort him, was terrified at the prospect.
She had thought of Fred Cornwall, but she knew, from the
young man's own indirect admissions, that he was not in a
position to assist them. He knew nothing of the acceptance,
and therefore could make no reference to it in his
confidences with Aunt Lethh. " It is an uphill fight," he
had said cheerfully to her ; " but I shall come out a victor in
the end. At present, dear Aunt Lethh, it is a tight fit."
After this how could she make an appeal to him to help
them out of their trouble? Meanwhile the day was approaching
nearer and nearer.

It was Tuesday. On Wednesday, the following day, the
acceptance was due, and Uncle Lethh would have to meet it

or go to the wall. The dear old home would be sold up,
and they would be turned into the streets. The tears that
ran down Aunt Lethh's face were like tears of blood from
her heart.

On this Tuesday it was that consternation seized upon
Jeremiah Pamflett, and furious anger raged in Miser
Farebrother's heart. The cause of these emotions was a
newspaper article, which is here transcribed. It was
headed :

"a strange affair — THE BITERS BIT."

A singular discovery has just come to light, and is in
the hands of the police. Everybody is acquainted with the
name of the wealthy miner from California, Mr. Quintain,
whose income is said to be not less than half a million a
year. His name and his doings have been for a long time
past in everybody's mouth. He is of humble origin, and
his eccentricities may be accounted for by the fact of his
having come into a marvellous fortune, the spending of the
income of which would be a tax upon the ablest man in
creation. It may be remembered that his wife died a

couple of years since, and that last year he contracted a
second marriage with an indifferent actress, whose extravagances
in her new position have drawn attention to her in
every city she and her husband have visited. The finest
horses, the finest equipages, the finest dresses, the finest
diamonds, the finest everything, in short, that cost vast
sums of money. There came to the ears of Mrs. Quintain
and her too-generous husband that a diamond bracelet of
rare — nay, of fabulous — value was in the market. The
stones were of a monstrous size and of the purest colour.
The price asked for this bracelet was no less than sixty
thousand pounds. The stones alone, if sold singly, were
valued by experts at considerably more than thirty thousand.
To obtain possession of an ornament so rare and costly was
a natural desire on the part of Mrs. Quinlan, and to her
husband was a bagatelle. What are sixty thousand pounds
to a man upon whom money continues to roll in a manner
so bewildering ? The upshot of the negotiations was that
the bracelet was purchased and paid for, and Mrs. Quinlan
the happy possessor.

'about four weeks ago Mr. and Mrs. Quinlan, with
VOL. III. 37

their retinue and treasures, arrived at the Langham Hotel,
with the intention of stopping there for two or three days.
But fate willed it otherwise. Mrs. Quinlan was taken ill,
and was confined to her bed. So serious was her illness
that she was a prisoner in her bedroom for more than three
weeks. Mr. Quinlan did not remain in attendance upon
her the whole of this time. He had business which took
him frequently to Paris and other places ; consequently,
for a greater part of the time during which his wife was
suffering, he was an absentee.

Among Mrs. Quinlan's serving women was one of great
attractions, and who was a special favourite with her
mistress. This young woman's name is Alice Frost. She
had the entire confidence of her mistress, and, as events
have proved, was unworthy of it. To her was intrusted,
during Mrs. Quinlan's sickness, the charge of the lady's
jewels, which were kept in a very substantial safe in Mrs.
Quinlan's bedroom. It was often impressed upon Mrs.
Quinlan that she was imprudent to carry so much valuable
property about with her ; but she disregarded these hints,
and took her pleasures in her own way. One of these

pleasures, in the course of her illness, was to have all her
jewels and ornaments spread out before her on her bed,
and to handle and gaze upon them. We hold that she was
sensible in this, for what is the use of buried treasure? The
servant who took these priceless gems from the safe for the
inspection of her mistress was Alice Frost.

Suddenly Alice Frost disappears. She is not discharged,
she is not sick, she is not in disgrace ; she simply disappears.
Mrs. Quinlan, much distressed at the loss of so
great a favourite, calls in a private detective. He listens to
all that Mrs. Quinlan can impart to him, and when she has
finished, remarks, ' She has run away.'

' Impossible,' says Mrs. Quinlan. ' Why should she
run away ? Somebody has carried her off. She is very good-looking.'


Says the detective, ' She had charge of your jewellery ? '

' To some extent,' says Mrs. Quinlan. * But it is all
kept in the safe there.'

' Would you have any objection to our looking through
it,' says the detective, 'and seeing that nothing is missing?'


37-2

* No objection whatever,' says Mrs. Quinlan.
*' Whereupon the safe is unlocked, and the treasures laid
forth. With one exception it is aM correct. Nothing is
missing but the wonderful diamond bracelet. That is
gone.

' It accounts,' remarked the detective, * for the disappearance
of Alice Frost.'

*' Mrs. Quinlan fell back speechless, and, when she recovered,
bade the detective track Alice Frost and the sixty-thousandfold
bracelet.

What has been discovered is this : Alice Frost disappeared
one Friday night. Presumably the diamond bracelet
also disappeared at the same time.

What occurred in or about the Langham Hotel on that
night which may afford a clue to the discovery of the robber
or robbers ?

On that night the policeman on duty observed a man
walking on the opposite side of the road for a space of a
couple of hours. This man did nothing but walk slowly up
and down, keeping as much as possible in the dark, and
looking for some person he was waiting for. The policeman

on duty passed him on three occasions, and although
the man endeavoured to avoid him, he obtained a good
view of his features. He will be able to recognize the man.

"At half past eleven a woman came out of the Lang-ham,
and went over to sherman. The policeman on duty
saw this movement, but is not sure that he will be able to
identify the woman. Of the man he t's sure.

The woman spoke to the man behind his back. The
man did not turn his face. She slipped a parcel into his
hands, and walked rapidly away. Almost immediately the-man
was joined by another in an Inverness cape, and the:
two walked away together. The policeman on duty saw
nothing more of them. From the manner in which they
walked away together there is no doubt that they were
intimately acquainted with each other, and that they
were confederates. So far, the policeman; now for the
next evidence.

As near as the cabman can remember, driver of a four-wheeler,
it was within a few minutes of midnight that a
man hailed him and bade him come along. They went a
couple of hundred yards and took up a man in an Inverness

cape. The man who hailed the driver gave him half a
sovereign ' on account,' and directed him to drive along the
Finchley Road. He did so, and observed while he was
driving that the men inside the cab were lighting matches,
which proves that they were examining something — probably
the diamond bracelet. After driving about an hour he was
called upon to stop, and before he had pulled up his horse
the man in the Inverness cape jumped out of the cab and
disappeared. Then he was directed to drive back to
London, and he did so, stopping, by orders, in Portland
Place. The man who hailed him first (now the only one
remaining in the cab) alighted, and the cabman noticed that
he had a parcel in his hand. Again the diamond bracelet.
The cabman asked for a few shillings more, reminding his
fare that the half-sovereign given to him was 'on account.'
The man said that he was well paid, and refused to part
with anything further. The cabman began to argue with
him, but the man did not stop ; he ran off. The cabman's
description of his fare tallies with that of the policeman on
duty at the Langham Hotel. The cabman will be able to
identify him.

In some way which we are not at liberty to divulge, butin
which we may say the good-looking Alice Frost is concerned,
the disappearance of a blacken going by the name
of Captain Ablewhite bears upon the robbery. It is known
that this Captain Ablewhite took the night train on the following
Tuesday to Dover. Nothing further is at present
discovered of him.

Now comes the piquant feature in the robbery.

To Mr. Quinlan, who arrived at the Langham Hotel
after the discovery of the robbery, the detective narrated
all the particulars of the affair. Mr. Quinlan laughed. His
wife asked him what he was laughing at. •

' My dear,' he said to her, ' the loss is not so great as
you suppose. Your diamond bracelet is safe.'

' Safe ! ' she cried.

' Here it is.' He pulled it from his pocket. ' The fact
is, you would not be persuaded that it was imprudent to
travel with so much valuable property about you, and I
therefore took ths precaution of having a bracelet made
exactly like this. All the stories in the bracelet that is stolen
are false !^

"An agreeable contemplation for the robbers. The biters
are bit.

The affair is in the hands of the detectives in Scotland
Yard, who are confident that they will be able to track the
robbers."

This newspaper article it was that struck consternation to
the heart of Jeremiah Pamflett. He turned hot and cold.
First he was clammy ; the next moment he broke out into
a hot perspiration. He had been swindled, tricked, betrayed;
he, the wretched, depraved thief, had fallen amongst
thieves. He, the sharper, had been sharped. Truly, the
biter was bit !

What should he do ? How was he to act in order to
insure his safety ? The policeman who had been on duty
at the Langham Hotel on that Friday night said that he
could identify him. The cabman he had engaged said the
same. If he had had a sufficient sum of money he would
have flown the country, but he had been compelled on that
day to make a payment to the book-maker who held his
acceptances for his losses at Doncaster, and he had not

enough left to pay his fare to the Continent. And what
would be the use of his going there if he had ? He could
not live without money ; he did not understand a word
of any other language than English ; and he would be
sure to be tracked and brought back. His flight would
make it worsts for him ; it would be an admission of guilt.
Should he stop and brave it out ? Upon reflection he
gained a little courage. He argued with himself, despite
the policeman's and the cabman's declarations that they
could identify him, that it was scarcely possible they could
do so unless he betrayed himself. He had been at great
trouble to conceal his features from the policeman's scrutiny,
and it only required him to put a good face on the matter
to brazen it out ; to so confuse the man, even if he came
into contact with him, that he would pass unnoticed. But
there was no occasion for him to come into contact with the
policeman. He would keep out of the way, and the affair
would blow over. Captain Ablewhite would not, could not,
come back. The mere thought of Captain Ablewhite roused
him to fury. He looked blindly round for something to
strangle. If the bland, smiling Captain were before

him now ! If he could meet him in some dark place !
All surrounding objects seemed to be swimming in
blood.

He ran into his bedroom, and filling the wash-hand basin
with cold water, plunged his head into it. The action recalled
him to his calmer self. Notwithstanding which, he
said aloud, with a cunning smile, " I may find you one day,
my Captain, and then, and then ! " He clenched his hand
and opened it, and twined his fingers, as though he had
them on Captain iVblewhite's throat.

But there was no telling whether he was in danger or not.
What it was imperatively necessary he should get possession
of at once was money, in order to be prepared. Where
could he get it from ? Ah, his mother !

He would go down to Parksides immediately. Perhaps
he might find Miser Farebrother's hidden treasure.

He emerged into the streets. As he descended the stairs
he saw before him a vision of blood. Two men struggled
for life and death. The house was very quiet. Only he
and the other fan occupied space. He tore at the Shadow's I

throat, he took a knife from his pocket, he plunged it in —

Bloods blood everywhere ! Above him, beneath him,
around him. Again and again the knife descended. What
a delight to punish an enemy so ! You tricked me, you
robbed me, you laid snares for me ! Take that — and that
and that !

He laughed aloud before he went into the street, and
then he put on a smug face.

There were a number of persons walking this way and
that, but not one took the slightest notice of him. He
nodded to a passing acquaintance, who nodded back at him,
and smiled. He was safe. What cause was there for fear ?

In the sunlight the vision of blood vanished. He was
face to face with the world, and his native cunning asserted
itself.

Then he thought he was going down to Parksides to see
his mother. He would have to see Miser Farebrother. He
must have some excuse for the visit. He retraced his steps
and went back to the office, arming himself with account-books,
which he took up indiscriminately and made into a
parcel, tying it up with string

The string was red ! Miser Farebrother's offices were

very gloomy : the windows had been frosted, so that no

person should see through ; a strange silence prevailed.

As he tied the books together with the string, a streak
of blood appeared, stretched itself along the table, and
dropped, drip by drip, on the floor. Jeremiah held himself
in suspense to listen to the spiritual sound which his mood
had brought to his ears. Drip, drip, drip !

Captain Ablewhite's blood. The policeman's blood. The
cabman's blood. The blood of any person who was his
enemy.

Yes, he would crush the life out of them. Like this, like
this, like this ! He ground his foot into the floor, and
looked down, smiling. Then, locking the doors and putting
the keys into his pocket, he descended the stairs.

He walked slowly to the street landing. There were
not many stairs ; but all the way down he was engaged
in the life and death struggle, and all the space around
was bathed in blood. A ruthless ferocity was awakened
within him. His safety, his liberty, his very life was at
stake. What mattered all else ? " Every man for himself,
and— "

He paused at the next word, " God," against which he
mentally strove, and conquering it, cast a defiant look at
the pulsing, bloody shadows which encompassed him, and
threw the street door open.

Once more in the sunlight — and safe ! That was the
great point. And safe ! He called a cab, a four-wheeler,
and looked the driver straight in the face ; then laughed,
and directed the man to drive him to the railway station.

mrn^

MISER FAREBROTHER THREATENS JEREMIAH.

He usually travelled third-class to Beddington, but on this
occasion he took a first-class ticket. To this piece of extravagance
he was impelled by two reasons. He wished to
be alone, and the first-class carriages were nearly always
empty at this time of the day. Then, in the position in
which he found himself — brought about partly by his own
folly, but chiefly by the treachery of Captain Ablewhite — it
mattered little how much he spent. What were pounds,
shillings, and pence in comparison with his safety? He
had worked himself into the belief that not only his liberty,
but his life, was in peril.

The three first-class carriages in the train were unoccupied,
and he got into one, and closed the door. No other
passenger entered the carriage, and he travelled to Parksides
alone.

He read again the newspaper article upon the diamond
bracelet, and his feelings became more bitter and revengeful.
The visions which had haunted him in Miser Farebrother's
office reappeared. The words he was. reading were printed
in letters of blood ; his eyes became blurred, and he wiped
them with his handkerchief. The blood-shadows were on
the handkerchief as he looked at it ; the stains spread to
his hands, as though they had just been employed upon a
ruthless deed ; the compartment in which he sat was throbbing
with a silent life and death struggle, from which he
emerged triumphant and free.

He was aroused by the stopping of the train at Beddington.
He jumped out, with the account-books in his hands,
and gazed defiantly around. No one challenged or accosted
him, and he walked through the village toward Parksides.
He heard a voice calling to him :

*' Jeremiah ! Jeremiah ! "

The currents of his blood seemed to be suddenly arrested.
Was he so soon discovered ? Were they after him already ?

Jeremiah ! Jeremiah ! "

His mother, panting, laid her hand upon his shoulder.

He shook her off violently, and was about to fly when he

recognized her.

*' How fast you walk, Jeremiah ! " He glared at her, and
raised his hand with the intention of striking her, but she
caught his arm and prevented him.

"Well, then ! " he said, suddenly. *' What do you come
running after a fellow like that for ? Just as if — " He did
not finish the sentence.

Just as if what, Jeremiah ? " asked Mrs. Pamflett.

Ask no questions and you'll hear no lies," he replied.
How is it that you're here instead of at Parksides ? "

Miser Farebrother sent me with a message to the telegraph
office."

A telegram ! " he cried, all his fears reviving. " To
whom ? "

To you, telling you to come here without a moment's
delay."

Oh, the old thief wants me ? "

He wants you badly, Jeremiah ! "

Does he ? Was there nothing else in the telegram
except that I was to come here without a moment's delay ? "

You were to bring the account-books."

I have them, you see. Was the old thief in a good

humour ? "

Jeremiah, I was Hastening outside his room, and I heard

him hoping up and down, muttering to himself. I didn't

catch what he was saying, but he was in a desperate temper.

Yet when he rang his bell, and I answered it, he was sitting

at the writing-table, with the sweetest smile on his face, and

his voice was like honey. 'Take this to the telegraph

office,' he said, giving me the message ; and he asked me

how you were getting on, and whether you were saving

money, and whether I had saved any. I told him I had a

little—"

How much ? " asked Jeremiah, interrupting her.

I didn't tell him that, Jeremiah."

Of course you didn't ; but J want to know."

*' I have got more than a hundred pounds, Jeremiah."

So — you've been saving up secretly, unbeknown tome

! "

It was done for your good, Jeremiah ; it is all for you.

Women are not as strong as men, nor as bold and venture-vol.
III. 38

some, but they see further sometimes. * Perhaps,' I thought
to myself, * one day Jeremiah may want a little help ; there
may be something he wishes to do and is just a little short.
Then I will give him my savings, and he will praise me for
my prudence and foresight."

I praise you now, mother," said Jeremiah. " Can you lay
your hands on the money ? Is it in your room ? "

No, Jeremiah ; it is in the Post-office Savings-bank."
"Curse it! You can't get it out to-day. What's, the
good of it when I want it now — this very minute ? "
"What for, Jeremiah?"

That's my business. Go on about the old thief. He
pretended to be very sweet, did he, and tried to pump you ?
What's that ? "

He clutched his mother, shaking like one in an ague.
They were in a narrow lane, and a boy in their rear had
uttered a loud shout, and had thrown a stone at a bird.
The boy ran on, and the colour returned to Jeremiah's
face.

"Jeremiah! " whispered Mrs. Pamflett.
"Well?"

You have been doing something wrong. You are in
trouble."

Yes, I am in trouble. I have been robbed — swindled
tricked and ruined by a damned scoundrel. If I had
him here now, in this quiet lane, with no one near, his life
wouldn't be worth a moment's purchase. There, the
murder's out ! What did I say ?"

You said, * the murder's out.' "

Did I ? " he exclaimed, with a nervous laugh. ** Murder,
eh ? Well, if it's my life against another man's — "

Is it as bad as that, Jeremiah ? "

It is. I am in a fearful hole, and I must get out of it.
Look here, mother. Ever since I was born you've been
drumming in my ears that you cared for nothing in the
world but me, that you lived only for me, that you loved no
one but me, that you would do anything for me — never
mind what — anything, anything ! Is it true, or a lie ? "

It is true, Jeremiah," said Mrs. Pamflett, her thin lips

set, but slightly parted, and her eyes glittering like cold

steel. " If you're in danger, you must get out of it. If I

can help you to get out of it, you have only to show me the

38—2

LIdKAKY

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS

way. You don't know what a woman like mc — what a
mother like me — is capable of. I will show you. A
scoundrel has ruined you, and something must be done to
save you. I understand ; I understand. Whatever it is,
if it is for me to do it, I am ready. I have never spoken
one false word to you, and I won't say one word to you now
to reproach you for not having confided in me before today.
If you had made your fortune I was to share it.
You are in trouble now, and I will share it. Give me a
kiss, and say you love me ! '"

*' I should be a beast if I didn't," said Jeremiah, kissing
her, " You're something like a mother ! "

"Jeremiah, if that venomous wretch Phoebe Farebrother
had married you, would you be in danger now ? "

*' No ; there would be nothing to trouble me if she hadn't
rounded on me. I shouldn't have been compelled to do
what I have done."

Ah ! She called you a reptile, and I am your mother.
Oh, to be even with her — to be even with her ! "

Half an hour afterward Jeremiah Pamflett was in the
presence of Miser Farebrother. The miser received his

managing clerk with more than graciousness ; there was
even cordiality in his manner, and had Jeremiah's usually
clear mind not been unbalanced by the threatening clouds
which hung above him, this apparently favourable demeanour
would have rendered him suspicious, and put him on his
guard. Experience had taught him that there was always
mischief in the wind when Miser Farebrother's words were
smooth and fair.

I sent a telegram for you, Jeremiah," said Miser Fare-brother.


Yes, sir," said Jeremiah ; " my mother told me so.
Fortunately I was on my way to you."

You have brought the books with you ? " •

Here they are, sir."

You anticipate my wishes, Jeremiah. What master was
ever served as I am served by you — so conscientiously, so
faithfully ! Is the bank-book here ? Yes, yes ; I see it is.
We will go into the accounts presently. Before I sent for
you, Jeremiah, I was in great pain, and feared I had not
long to live. That kind of feeling makes a man sad — it
unsettles him, and he is apt to repine at the hard fate which

seems determined to snatch him from all the joys of life
I have not had many of them, and the consolation I had
looked forward to in your contemplated union with my
ungrateful child has been denied me. You look tired,
Jeremiah. Doubtless you have been up late at night,
attending to correspondence connected with the business,
and running through the accounts."

I have been working very hard," said Jeremiah.

That is it. When I did the work myself I also used to
sit up night after night poring over the books. An anxious
mind, Jeremiah — an anxious mind. And you resemble me
oh, how you resemble me ! What does a late night now
and then matter to the young and strong ? They can bear
it ; it leaves no ill effects behind, could bear it once; /
was once young and strong as you are ; / was once filled
with hope and enthusiasm. And now, look at me. I am a
wreck, a feeble wreck, scarcely able to contend with an
infant. My strength gone, my hope and enthusiasm gone,
my confidence gone in every being in the world with the
exception of you and your mother. No reward can be too
great for service so faithful ! You are affected. I thank

In point of fact, Jeremiah had taken his handkerchief
from his pocket and had dabbed his forehead with it, and
it was this action which Miser Farebrother chose to construe
into an exhibition of sympathy. Jeremiah's face was damp
with perspiration; he was bewildered by the flow of words
which fell like honey from the miser's lips ; bewildered also
by the presence of the master he had wronged and robbed,
of the man who held his fate in his hands. Lying back in
his chair, Miser Farebrother seemed to have scarcely an
hour's life in him; his strength seemed to be ebbing
away, and death to be fast approaching. What if he were
to die there, within the hour, while Jeremiah was in the
room ? Then all would be well. He could obtain possession
of the valueless bracelet ; he could obtain possession of
the hoards of money which Miser Farebrother had put in
some secret place, which, the miser dead, Jeremiah and his
mother would have little difficulty in finding. Yes ; then
all would be well. Before he had presented himself to his

master, he had confided to his mother all the particulars of
the danger which threatened him, and they had debated
what had best be done. His mother had said, " If Miser
Farebrother were out of the way," and then had paused.
If Miser Farebrother were out of the way ! That is, if he
were dead! Yes; if he were dead! "What then?"
Jeremiah had asked, after a terrible silence, during which
their minds vivere threading labyrinths of awful possibilities
of action which would extricate Jeremiah from his peril.
What then, mother ? " Jeremiah had asked. " Why,
then," his mother had replied, " we could get the bracelet,
and would find a means to restore it immediately to the
lady from whom it had been stolen. It would have to be
done carefully and secretly ; it would be necessary that we
should not be seen or suspected in the matter. The bracelet
restored, the lady would have nothing to complain of.
She has not been robbed of money ; only we and the old
man upstairs know where the money came from which was
lent upon the bracelet, and only we should be the losers."
"We could get his hidden treasure as well, mother,"
Jeremiah had said. " No one but ourselves knows of that.

If it were necessary, we could leave England for a time."
But this suggestion had been stoutly opposed by Mrs.
Pamflett. " It would never do," she had said. " Our disappearance
would draw instant suspicion upon us. We
have managed for him so many years — I here in Parksides,
you in the London office. No, Jeremiah ; we must stop
and brave it out. I am certain there would be very little
to fear, and that neither the policeman nor the cabman
would be able to identify you. Besides, the bracelet
restored, there would be no charge. The lady's maid stole
it, not you, and she will not come back. She is in sure
hiding, and so is that monster Captain Ablewhite. You
would be safe, Jeremiah — you would be safe." And then
she repeated, "If Miser Farebrother were out of the way ! "
Already their dark thoughts had compassed the result.
The means had not been mentioned or discussed, but they
were ready for any expedient, however desperate which
would bring it about and remove the threatened danger.
Mrs. Pamflett, to insure her son's safety, was prepared for
any risk to herself, for any sacrifice.

And here, sitting within a few inches of Jeremiah, was

the man whose death meant life and liberty for him — was
the man who could make a felon of him, who could ruin
him absolutely and for ever and ever ! " If he were to die
now in his chair ! " thought Jeremiah. Then came the
thought that Miser Farebrother was an old man, weak and
nerveless, and that two strong hands around his neck
would squeeze the life out of him in a very few moments.
It would be soon over, and there would be an end to the
tortures Jeremiah was suffering. Meanwhile Miser Fare-brother
was speaking again.

"Were those the office keys jingling in your pocket,
Jeremiah, when you took out your handkerchief? Let me
see them ; it may be the last opportunity I shall have of
handling the old friends. Yes, here they are, all on a single
ring — the key of the office door, the key of the room in
which you sleep, the keys of the safe and the deed and
cash boxes. All here, all here ! Have you duplicates of
them ? No ! Then without these keys you could not enter
the office, you could not open the safe ? Come, old
friends, into my drawer you go — and you are safely locked
there, and the key in my pocket ! "

And now, to Jeremiah's astonishment and consternation,
Miser Farebrother rose to his feet and stood upright before
his knavish clerk. All his apparent weakness had disappeared
; his face was flushed with anger ; in his eyes there
was a look of stern resolution.

"I summoned you here," he said, and his firm voice
struck terror to Jeremiah's heart, " to obtain not only an
explanation but satisfaction from you. Doubtless you have
read this."

He held out to Jeremiah the newspaper containing the
account of the robbery of the diamond bracelet. Mechanically
Jeremiah took the paper ; but he did not look further
than the heading : " A Strange Affair — The Biters Bit."

Answer me," said the miser. " Have you read it ? "

No," faltered Jeremiah.

"How do you know you have not read it when you have
scarcely glanced at the paper I have given you ? That you
lie is proved by your side pocket, which would not bulge
out as it does if it did not contain a copy of this damnable
strange affair, by which you have swindled me out of four
thousand pounds."

I did not swindle you," Jeremiah found courage to say.
I believed the diamonds were genuine."

You lie again, and you will continue to He. But it will
not help you. I will have my money back ! Do you hear,
you thief? — I will have my money back, which you and
your confederates have shared between you ! I will not
wait long for it. Before twelve o'clock tomorrow you shall
count it out to me on this table. If you do not, you shall
stand in the felon's dock. All your cunning shall not save
you. I am a fool to give you one moment's grace. You
thief ! you scoundrel ! you swindler ! I will have my money !
my money ! my money ! Have I not toiled for it all my
life ? — and now to find myself robbed by a scoundrel I
snatched from the gutter! If you don't pay me what you
have stolen from me I will so pursue you that your life
shall be a slow torture. You shall wish you were dead ;
but you shall live to suffer. At least I will have revenge,
and I will pay for it. I will have your heart's blood, to the
last drop ! My money ! my money ! my money ! "

His passion exhausted him, and he was compelled to
stop. His torrent of furious words had, in the first instance,

Do you wish to know why I wanted the books ? " continued
Miser Farebrother. '' I will tell you. To-morrow
they will be placed in the hands of an accountant, who
shall go through them and examine them, and who will tell
me the full extent of your robberies ; for my eyes are
opened now. I have been blind ! blind ! This swindle of
the bracelet is not your only theft ; there are others, and I
will have them ferreted out, and you shall repay me to the
last farthing. You thief! you have fattened upon the
money you have stolen from me — you have grown rich by
your knavery ! Well, I will beggar you — every shilling you
possess is mine, and I will have it. I leave it to you to
judge whether I am in earnest or not, and whether I will
do what I have threatened. Do you wish to know why I
wanted the keys of the office and the safe ? I will tell you.
It is that you shall never again enter my doors — it is that it
shall be out of your power to destroy the evidences of your
guilt which are to be found there. Till twelve tomorrow

not one moment longer ! Then, when restitution is made
full, complete restitution — you and your cat-mother
shall pack, the pair of you ! I will fling you both into the
gutter, and if you rot and die there, so much the better !
I will look down upon you and laugh. Is what I say plain
enough ? "

Quite," replied Jeremiah, in whose heart now reigned a
cold, ferocious cunning ; but his voice was very humble.
You force me to confess."

I thought I should succeed in that, at least. But no
confessions will satisfy me without my money, you vile,
ungrateful thief! My money! Do you hear? — my
money !

You shall have it ; you shall not lose one farthing by
me."

*' Good ! good ! You are rich, then ? You have robbed
me systematically ! You villainous knave ! "

I am not rich. I have saved a little, and I have
friends who will assist me in the misfortune which has overtaken
me. I have not robbed you systematically ; you dome
an injustice, as you will learn when the accountant has

gone through the books. I court inquiry — I invite it — I will
have it, now that you have accused me, and I will compel
you to admit that I have served you faithfully. My character
is dear to me, and I will not allow you to cast suspicion
upon it. As for the bracelet, I ^/^' believe that the stones
were genuine ; and if they were genuine they would have
been worth ten times the sum you lent on them. I laugh
at the public exposure with which you threaten me. Me
it cannot harm ; you, it can. For, after all, I am only your
servant ; you are the principal. That the business of the
bracelet was introduced to me by a man whose character
will not bear investigation is true. I did not know this at
the time ; but what if I did ? He did not ask me to lend
him the money, he asked me to apply ioyou. Is it the first
questionable transaction you have been mixed up in ? Perhaps
I could give evidence on that point. It is pretty well
known that Miser Farebrother would do anything for
money ; if he could sell his soul for it he would not hesitate
long. You mustn't mind my speaking in this way ; I have
nothing to fear, and I am defending myself."

Miser Farebrother was not in the least discomposed by

Jeremiah's defence of himself. "Words, Jeremiah,
words ! " he said, with a sneering laugh. " Are you a fool
as well as a rogue ? What you have said is as so much air,
and will not save you from the felon's fate. In everything
I have done the law is on my side ; I have seen to that. As
to what is between us, let matters be settled quickly. You
have saved a little, you say ; you have friends who will
assist you. Good ! By noon tomorrow pay me the money
you induced me to advance upon the bracelet. If this is
not done, at one o'clock I will place it in the hands of the
police, with a faithful description of the manner in which it
came into my possession. The police are looking for you,
you shallow knave, and I will set them on your track. Then
see if you can save yourself. The office accounts will come
afterward. If you have stolen, you shall repay — with
interest, you thief ! "

'' I will not use abusive words in return," said Jeremiah.
'there is nothing for which I am to blame, except the
bracelet, and I was an innocent victim. You have it, of
course ? "

Trust me for that," replied Miser Farebrother ; " I have

it safe enough. Do you think I have been simple enough
to part with it ? "

*well, give it to me," said Jeremiah, *rand before twelve
tomorrow morning I will return you the money you
advanced on it."

Miser Farebrother burst out into a loud laugh. *' Give
it to you, Jeremiah, and simply for the asking ! You
miserable knave, do you think I am in my second childhood
? No, Jeremiah, no ! When you give me back my
money you shall have it — not till then. Fail in this restitution,
and you have but a few hours of freedom before
you. By my blood ! by my life ! I will abide by what I say ?

Then there is an end of it," said Jeremiah, " and it
shall be as you say. I must get back to London to-night
so that I may be here in time tomorrow."

*' Be sure you are in time, Jeremiah ! "

I will be sure ! " said Jeremiah, and left the room.

The moment he closed the door behind him he felt his

mother's hand clasp his. She led him down the stairs, and

Jeremiah, hearing the sound of his own footsteps, did not

wonder that he did not hear hers. It would have been
A^OL. III. 39

difficult, she trod so softly, and she had taken off her boots.
She accompanied him like a spirit : not the only one which
walked beside and before him. By his blood ! By
his life ! Miser Farebrother's words. Well, it might come
to that. What other road of escape was left open ?

In the kitchen below, Mrs Pamflett put her forefinger to
her lips.

Speak low, Jeremiah. I listened outside, and heard
all. He has the heart of a devil ! That is his gratitude for
faithful service. His life has been in my hands for years
past. I could have sent him to his grave and no one the
wiser. I am your cat-mother, am I ? And he will fling us
into the gutter, and laugh at us ? He and his daughter area
pair. He has had the best years of our lives, and he
sjDits in our faces. Have you told me the whole truth,
Jeremiah? About the books and the safe — is there anything
against you there ? Can he get you into further
trouble ? "

Mother," said Jeremiah, " if he calls in an accountant,
as he threatens to do, I am lost. There is no hose of j

escape for me. If I don't get back that bracelet, I am lost.

It might be," his mother echoed, gazing at her son with
a fierce expectancy in her eyes.

"This man has been here frequently before ; he has been
in the habit of coming once in every six or seven weeks,
sand Miser Farebrother expects and receives him. They
talk in secret in Miser Farebrother's room, with the door
locked. You are never admitted. You are sent to bed,
and sometimes you have awoke in the middle of the night,
and have heard sounds in the miser's room, which proved
that the man was still there. You never knew at what
hour he went away, but it must have been nearly always not
earlier than two or three in the morning. It might be ! "
It might be."

That he came upon business is a reasonable construction,

39-2

and that this business was of a nature which would not bear
the light is another reasonable construction. Once, passing
the miser's room on the way to your own, you heard them
quarrelling and you heard the miser say, 'I have but to lift
my finger, and I could send you back to the hulks ! I will
give you twenty pounds for the bonds, and no more.' A
reasonable story, mother ? "

Perfectly reasonable, Jeremiah. Living here in seclusion
as he has done for so many years, with no servant but
me, who is to dispute it? That is not the end, Jeremiah."

"That is not the end. To-night, late, the man comes
again, and is admitted. You go to bed as usual, and leave
them together as usual. To-morrow morning you get up,
and wait for Miser Farebrother to ring his bell for breakfast.
He does not ring it, mother," and Jeremiah put his lips close
to her ear. " Can you guess the reason why he does not
ring his bell ? "

I can guess the reason, Jeremiah," she replied, in a cold,
malignant voice. "After tomorrow he will never raise his
hand again ! "

** And I am safe !" said Jeremiah.

And you are safe, my dear, dear lad ; and he is punished
as he deserves to be."

He has been in the grounds at night very often these
last few weeks, mother ? "

Very often, Jeremiah."

Whether he dies in the house or out of the house, the
story holds good."

The story holds good," she echoed.

You can describe the man's dress and appearance :
there is nothing like being exact in these matters : there are
peculiarities about him by which you will be able to recognise
him when he is arrested."

Leave all that to me, Jeremiah. I will show you what
I am capable of. And you — where will you be in the
morning ? "

In the office in London, as usual, having possessed myself
of the keys which he tricked out of me upstairs. Give
me a drink of brandy — ah ! that puts life into one ! And
some bread and meat — no, I cannot eat."

"You must, Jeremiah; you must! It will give you
strength. That's right. Force yourself to eat. Don't

drink much. Keep cool for what is to come ! Now go —
and keep out of sight. You must not be seen in the village.
The monster upstairs never wanders near the beeches ; you
will be safe there. I will come to you in an hour or two."
Stealthily, warily, Jeremiah crept from the house, and
proceeded in the direction indicated by his mother. The
sun was setting, and blood was in the sky. It shone upon
the rising ground and upon the topmost branches of the
trees. His eyes did not rest upon the glories of a lovely
sunset, but upon blotches and streaks of blood. Once,
standing where he could not himself be seen, he turned to
the house, and watched the blood-red stains in the windows.
Behind the crimson panes lurid shadows moved ;
the rooms were alive with murderous shapes and forms
engaged in fierce conflict. Above him and all around him
lurked the spirit of murder !

A DREAM OF AN ANGEL.

''Oh Aunt Lethhhh, Aunt Lethhhh ! " cried Phoebe. " Can nothing
be done ? — nothing, nothing ! "

I fear not, dear child," said Aunt Lethh, in a voice of
quiet despair. " Your uncle and I have thought of every
possible way in which our dear home might be saved, but
thinking and talking will not stave off impending ruin. Tomorrow
we shall be beggared and disgraced."

There was no li^^ht in the room. On a stool sat Uncle
Lethhhh, with his face buried in his hands ; Aunt Lethhhh sat on'
a chair by his side with her arm upon his neck, vainly striving
to console him; Fanny lay upon the sofa, sobbing;;
Robert sat moodily in a corner. To-morrow the acceptance ;
for three hundred pounds was due, and they had not a
shilling to meet it.

They had been talking in the dark for an hour, and the

parents had deemed it right that their children should be
made acquainted with the blow that was about to fall upon
them. Phoebe, as one of the family, could not be left in ignorance,
although they would cheerfully have spared her the grief
into which they were plunged. All was now known, and
ruin stared them in the face.

Aunt Lethh was the least demonstrative of the group, and
she suffered perhaps the most. Her trembling limbs, her
quivering voice, her pitiful glances as her eyes wandered
around, denoted the agony of her soul. Phoebe could not
bear to look toward her. Dark as was the room, she saw and
understood it all, and she was racked with anguish.

Had it been any other person than Jeremiah Pamflett
from whom the money had been borrowed, they believed
that some respite would have been granted them ; but he
was their bitterest enemy, and they were convinced that he
was the moving spirit through whom the relentless decree
had been issued that not a day's grace would be allowed.
Troubles and griefs had fallen to the lot of Aunt Lethh in the
course of her happy married life, and she had met them
cheerfully ; but this overwhelming stroke had broken her

down. There are shocks against which the bravest cannot
contend, and this was one.

It is I," suddenly cried Uncle Lethh, starting up, and
pacing the room in a frenzy of excitement — " It is I who
have brought this ruin and disgrace upon the beloved ones
I should have shielded and protected ! This is how I have
repaid them for the love which has been showered upon me !
Wretch that I am ! — I do not deserve to live ! "

They clung about him, and besought him to be calm.
They called him by the most endearing names. Only Phoebe
did not move from her chair.

It was terrible to witness his agony; but so sweet and
tender and true were their ministering that they succeeded
in their loving endeavours. He burst into tears,
and sank upon the stool, and laid his head upon his wife's
knees.

This morning," he said, presently, in a voice so pitiful
that their tears flowed afresh, " as I walked to the bank I
had a dream of hope. It was foolish, I know, and neither
manly nor practical — for life's troubles are not to be surmounted
by dreams — but I could not help it. These dreams

have happened to me, and I should have done my duty
better to my dear ones here, had I mj)t encouraged
them." He passed his hand across his forehead with the
air of a man upon whom a sudden mental bewilderment had
fallen. " What was I saying, mother ? "

"You had a dream of hope," said Aunt Lethh, raising his
hand to her lips and kissing it, " as you walked to the bank
this morning."

I do not remember what it was," he said, helplessly ;
only that an angel came forward and saved us."

Phoebe stole softly out of the room — so softly through
the darkness that they did not for a little while observe her
absence. To a certain extent she had kept aloof from them
during the last hour.

She went up to the bedroom occupied by her and
Fanny. She wanted to be alone. What was it her uncle
had said ? That an angel had come forward and saved
them ! The words impressed themselves upon her
mind.

How kind these dear ones had been to her from her
earliest remembrance ! Giving her ever of their best, eager

that she should share their joys and pleasures, making'
dresses for her, and bringing light into her life, which but
for them would have been utterly devoid of it. How sweet,
how good they had been !

What had she given them in return ? Nothing. True,
they had not asked for anything, had not expected anything.
All the more precious their tender services of love.

Their more than love. The unselfish sacrifices they had
made for her, of which they spoke never a word. Not to
be measured by a human standard.

It was only on the afternoon of this dolorous day that it
had come to her knowledge that her aunt had paid a doctor's
bill for her of some seven or eight pounds, and she
knew that her illness must have considerably increased the
household expenses of the once happy home, now on the
point of being wrecked.

An angel had come forward to save them ? No, not an
angel, but a loving, grateful girl ! It was in her power, at
least, to make an effort which by a' happy chance might be
successful. She could go to her father and appeal to him."
She would humble herself to him ; she would implore ■

him on her knees ; she would promise to obey him in

everything —

In everything ? " Yes, in everything. She shuddered
as she thought of Jeremiah Pamflett. But even that sacrifice
she would make if all else failed.

The effort must be made at once — this very night — and
it must be made without first consulting Aunt Lethh. Full
well did she know that the dear woman would divine the
sacrifice she was prepared to make, and would endeavour to
prevent it.

She put on her hat and mantle, and quietly left the
house. A few doors down the street she met 'Amelia
Jane.

Why, Miss Phoebe ! " cried that model .
" Where are you going all alone ? "

If my aunt or my cousin asks for me," said Phoebe,
hurriedly, " tell them I have gone to Parksides to see my
father."

Before 'Amelia Jane could reply, Phoebe had turned
the corner of the street, and was hastening to the railway
station.

BETTER THAN ANY Day-dream.

At five o'clock of the following afternoon two men paused
in front of Uncle Lethh's house in Camden Town, and
looked up at the windows.

This is the number," said one.

** Yes," replied the other ; " she lives here."

A rat-tat with the knocker brought 'Amelia Jane to the
street door.

Is Mr. Lethbridge at home ? " asked one of the men.

No, sir," replied 'Amelia Jane ; " he's at his bank."

*' Is Mrs. Lethbridge in ? "

Yes, sir."

Her niece. Miss Phoebe Farebrother, is stopping here,
is she not ? "

Yes, sir."

*' Is she in ? "

"Yes, sir; but you can't see her, if that's what you've
come for."

Why can't we see her ? "

'Cause she's too ill to be seen by anybody but us. Poor
thing ! she's no sooner out of one fit than she's into
another."

"Ah!" And the speaker glanced at his companion.
I'm sorry to hear it — very, very sorry." His voice
was soothing and sympathizing, And 'Amelia Jane, who bad
not been too favourably impressed by the strangers, became
instantly mollified. " How long has she been ill ? "

Oh, come ! " exclaimed 'Amelia Jane, relapsing into her
original view. " Yotc don't belong to the family, as I'm
aware of."

No, we do not, my good girl," observed the man ; " but
that would not prevent me from feeling pity for any young
lady who is ill, I hope." He smiled so kindly upon '^Nlelia
Jane that she did not know what to think of him. " Perhaps
it's what occurred last night that has upset her ? "

"I don't know what occurred last night," said 'Amelia
Jane, sharply ; "'do you ? "

'why, my girl, a number of things occur every night.
Which particular one 'do you refer to ? "
"I once knbwed a girl," said 'Amelia Jane, with an air of
scornful defiance, "who snowed another girl who had a
friend who lived in Pump Court." .

Well ? " said the stranger, seemingly much amused.

In Pump Court he lived," said 'Amelia Jane. "And he
lived by it as well as ii it. Lor' bless you ! The artful
way in which he'd pump people, so's to get out of 'em every
blessed thing he wanted to know — it was a sight, that's
what it was ! "

■ The man laughed heartily. " So you think we've come
to pump you, my good girl ! Perhaps you're right and
perhaps you're wrong. Now if I were to ask you whether
Miss Phoebe Farebrother slept at home last night — I mean
here, in her aunt's house— I suppose you would call that
pumping ? "

I should — and I shouldn't answer you."

But why, my good girl ? — why ? Is there any reason
for secrecy in so simple a matter ? However, I will ?iof
ask you, and in proof that I'm not quite the bad sort of

fellow you take me for, I will just inquire whether this
brooch belongs to Miss Farebrother.'*

He produced the brooch which Mrs. Pamflett had given
to Phoebe on her birthday.

*' Yes, it's hern," said 'Amelia Jane, holding out her hand
for it.

Did she wear it yesterday ? "

Pumping again ! "

My good girl, you're enough to put one out of patience.
Isn't it an act of kindness to restore lost property ? But
one must be sure first that it gets back into the hands of
the right owner. Can you remember whether Miss Fare-brother
wore this brooch yesterday ? "

No, I can't remember. And now I come to think of
it, I 'ain't seen her wear it for a long time past."

But she wore this yesterday." He produced a veil.

"Yes," said 'Amelia Jane, a little eagerly; "she had it on
when she went away last night to — "

Why don't you finish, my good girl ? Ashen she went
away last night to Parksides." He returned the brooch and
the veil to his pocket. " I won't trouble you any more.

Be kind enough to tell Mrs. Lethbridge that we wish to see
her."

What name shall I say ? "

Never mind the name ; she will not know it. You can
say, on particular business."

Leaving the men in the passage with the street door open,
'Meta Jane went up to Phoebe's bedroom, and gave the
message to her mistress, who came down at once, and asked
the stranger what his business was.

It will be best for me to speak to you in private," said
the man.

Aunt Lethh led the visitors into the parlour, and throne
who had spoken all through commenced the conversation.
My name is Beeminster, and I am attached to the
police force. I am engaged upon an inquiry of a serious
nature, and it has, in the first place, led me to your house."
Aunt Lethh's heart fainted within her. Knowing nothing
whatever of business, or of the pains and penalties attending
the dishonouring of an acceptance for three hundred
pounds, she feared that the terrible anxieties through which

she had passed with respect to her husband's liability were
VOL. III. 40

about to be renewed. She had believed that this special
difficulty had been happily tided over for a time, and her
reason for this belief needs in this place a word of explanation.


Almost heart-broken, Uncle Lethh had left his home on
this morning to walk to the bank in which he had held an
honourable though humble position all his life. He could
not touch his breakfast ; he could not speak ; he could
scarcely see before him. So utterly prostrate was he that
his wife had refrained from uttering a single word upon
another anxious subject which filled her with alarm. Phoebe
had been absent all the night, and had returned as Uncle
Lethh was getting out of bed. Her condition was so pitiable
as to cause Aunt Lethh and Fanny the utmost distress.
There were marks of violence upon her, she was bruised
and bleeding, her clothes were torn, her mind was distraught.
They could get nothing from her but sobs and tears. On
the previous night when her absence was remarked, and they
learnt from 'Amelia Jane that she had gone to Parksides, they
were almost distracted. Tom Barley, being off duty, was
sought for immediately, and upon being made acquainted

with what had taken place, had started off instantly for

Parksides to protect Phoebe and bring her back. He had not

much time to spare, as he had to go on his beat again early

in the morning ; but he managed to get to Parksides and

to reconnoitre for half an hour. He did not succeed in

finding Phoebe, and he was compelled to return to London

without her — determined, however, to go back to Parksides

when he was free again, and restore Phoebe to her relatives.

Phoebe's reappearance in Camden Town rendered the

carrying out of his resolution unnecessary. He had seen

something at Parksides which perplexed and troubled him ;

but he had mentioned it to no one.

Utterly absorbed and overwhelmed by the disgrace and

ruin with which he was threatened. Uncle Lethh knew

nothing of Phoebe's absence or return, and he started for

his bank with so heavy a weight upon his heart that he

almost prayed for death. No day-dreams on this morning ;

the reality was too crushing. He thought it was a dull

morning ; but the sun was shining and the air was sweet

• So he walked on — to ruin, as he believed.

But a wonderful thing occurred, and yet a simple thing.

40—2

For, surely, when, within a quarter of a mile of the bank
he was clapped on the shoulder by Fred Cornwall, an
incident so trivial was scarcely worth a second thought.
But when he reflected upon it afterward, he was of the
opinion that it was worth much more than a second
thought, and that indeed it was the most wonderful thing
that ever happened to him, that for the first time in his life
he should be clapped on his shoulder by Fred Cornwall
while he was walking to business. Not only the most
wonderful thing, but the most fortunate, as it turned
out.

Fred greeted him heartily and cordially, and he made
no reply. At first Fred did not notice his strange silence,
for the young man was bubbling over with an event of
great importance which had on this morning occurred in
his own career. He had received a brief in a case in which
some hundreds of thousands of pounds were involved, and
he was in high feather about it. With great animation he
made Uncle Lethh acquainted with this piece of good
fortune, and went on talking and talking until Uncle
Lethh's singular silence and abstraction had their effect

upon him, and he suddenly paused and asked Uncle Lethh
whether he was unwell.

Pardon me, Mr. Cornwall," said Uncle Lethh humbly ;
I have not understood a word of what you were saying."

The " Mr. " Cornwall struck strangely upon Fred's ears.
It had always been Fred ; but the fact was. Uncle Lethh,
feeing that he had lost his honoured place in the world,
deemed the familiarity an act of presumption on his part.
Therefore the " Mr." instead of Fred.

Then Fred, bending down to look into Uncle Lethh's
face, saw that there were tears in his eyes. Uncle Lethh
was as tall as Fred, but on this morning he stooped lower
than usual ; if he could have hid his face from the sight of
all men, he would have been glad to do so.

*' Uncle Lethh," said Fred gently, " what is the matter ? "

"Don't speak to me like that," sobbed Uncle Lethh,
turning away ; " don't speak to me like that ! "

Ah, but I must," said Fred, hooking his arm in Uncle
Lethh's. "You are in trouble, and you want me to run.
Not likely. Uncle Lethh. I love you and yours too deeply.
Only one word first. Has Phoebe anything to do with it?"

No, Fred."

You are in trouble ? "

"Yes."

About money ? "

Yes."

Then tell me ail about it. I give you my honest word
I will not leave you till you do. You have a good ten
minutes to spare. You started from home earlier than
usual this morning."

It was a fact, but until this moment Uncle Lethh had
not been aware of it.

Now tell me. Uncle Lethh."

And so, in less than the ten minutes there were to spare,
the story of the impending ruin was told.

"And is that all ? " cried Fred, to Uncle Lethh's astonishment.


Uncle Lethh strove to disengage his arm from Fred's.
It was cruel of the young man to make light of such a
blow. But Fred held Uncle Lethh's arm all the tighter,
and he could not release himself.

Do they know it at home ? " asked Fred.

"Yes."

And you have left all of them in trouble ? "

They are heart-broken," sobbed Uncle Lethh ; " and
so am I ! "

Now, Uncle Lethe'' said Fred, with a comfortable
squeeze at Uncle Lethh's arm, " just you listen to me a
moment. There is nothing to be heart-broken about when
you have a friend like me at your elbow."

Don't mock me, Fred,"

God forbid that I should ! What ! After all your
sweet goodness to my darling Phoebe ! after all your kindness
to me, to think that I should mock you ! I am going
to get you out of your trouble. A nice thing friendship
would be if it wasn't equal to such a little matter as
this ! "

A little matter, Fred ! You call it a Utile matter ! "

Of course I do. On my word and honour as a man,
as a true friend, you shall have the acceptance for three
hundred pounds in your hands, if not to-night, at all events
tomorrow. Give me the name and address of the man
who holds it and who demands his pound of flesh. He

shall have it to the last grain. Leave it to me, and go to
your work with a cheerful heart."

Do you mean it, Fred ? " asked Uncle Lethh, solemnly.

As truly as I stand here ! As truly as I love my Phoebe,
the dearest girl in all the wide world, of whom I should
be unworthy if I failed you at such a pinch — as truly as I
hope, despite all obstacles, to make her my wife, and to
live a long and happy life with her ! Quick, now, your
time is almost up. Give me Shylock's name and address,
and the thing is done. Ah ; that is it, is it ? I shall be
able to settle the affair with him."

God bless you, Fred ! " said Uncle Lethh, carried away
by the young man's impetuous enthusiasm. " God in
heaven bless you ! "

I hope so. And you and yours, and my own dear
girl ! Why, here's a telegraph office, three doors from the
bank ! We have just forty-five seconds to send a telegram
to Aunt Lethh. I will write it out. ' My dear Wife, — Do
not worry about the bill. It is paid, and I am happy. God
bless all at home ! Uncle Lethh.' How much ? .
How is that ? Oh yes, the address !

Quite right. Twopence-halfpenny change. Thank you.
Now, here we are outside, and there's your bank ; and —
hi ! — here's a hansom. Good-bye, Uncle Lethh. What a
lovely morning ! "

He rung Uncle Lethh's hand, gave him a bright smile,
jumped into the cab, and was whirled away.

How he managed it need not be here recapitulated.
Sufficient that he did manage it, and that the affair was
arranged before one o'clock. Perhaps he borrowed a trifle
from a friend or two ; perhaps he scraped up every shilling
of his own ; perhaps he paid a business visit to a gentleman
whose trade-mark was three beautiful golden balls ; perhaps
he left another acceptance for a smaller amount than the
original bill, with his own and a good friend's name on it,
in Shylock's hands. But all the " relapsing " in the world
would have been useless had he not succeeded in bringing
the matter to a satisfactory issue. And there he was at
the bank exactly as the clock struck one, and asking to be
allowed to say a word to Mr. Lethbridge, whispered in his
ear, " It is all right."

Phoebe IN PERIL.

After this breaking out of the sun in the dear home in
Camden Town, with respect to the money trouble, Aunt
Lethh's heart, as has been stated, fainted within her when
Mr. Beeminster, introducing himself, said that he had called
upon an inquiry of a serious nature. She mustered courage
to say : " Is it anything about a debt ? Is it anything about
my husband ? "

Mr. Beeminster stared at her, and answered : " No, not
that I am aware of. The inquiry upon which I am engaged
relates to Miss Farebrother — your niece — and her father."

A sigh of relief escaped Aunt Lethh's bosom, and Mr.
Beeminster stared the harder at her.

Have you heard anything?" he asked. " Do you know
what has occurred ? "

I do not understand you," she replied.

Miss Farebrother has resided with you for — how
long?"

I cannot exactly say. For some time ; since she left
her father's house and came to us. But why do you question
me ? "

"You are not compelled to answer. It may be that you
have something to conceal."

*'I have nothing to conceal," said Aunt Lethh indignantly.

"Or that, Miss Farebrother having got herself into
trouble, it is your wish to screen her."

My niece has not got herself into trouble," said Aunt
Lethh, feeling herself in a certain sense helpless in the hands
of this man. " She is not capable of doing anything
wrong. I will answer any reasonable questions you may
put to me."

It may be as well. Otherwise you might be suspected
of a guilty knowledge. Miss Farebrother left her father's
house and came to reside with you ? "

"Yes ; she has been in the habit of coming and stopping
with us, from time to time, since she was a child."

But never for so long a time as this ? "

That is true. We have a deep love for her. Our home
is hers."

She ought to be grateful for it."

She is."

"Her friends will best serve her by being open and
frank."

But what has our dear child done ? " asked Aunt Lethh,
in an imploring tone. " What has she done ? "

"You will hear presently, if you have a little patience.
On this last occasion of her coming to you did she do so
with her father's consent ? "

It is a family secret," replied Aunt Lethh despairingly.

It will tell against her if you refuse to answer. I am
here in the cause of justice."

"Of justice?"

Yes, of justice. You refuse, then, to say whether she
left her home in Parksides with her father's consent ? "

I do not refuse. Her father was not kind to her ; he
turned her from his house."

Then when she came here they were not upon friendly
terms. It is the construction which every person would

place upon it. Have you any objection to say why he
turned her from his house ? "

*' He wished to force her into a hateful marriage ; she
would not consent."

*' Were you and her father upon friendly terms ? "

We were not."

You harboured her, then, against his wish ? "

She had no other shelter. We have always regarded
her as a child of our own. Her mother was my sister."

I know it. Since she has been living permanently with
you has Miss Farebrother heard from her father ? "

He wrote to her, but not in answer to any letter of
hers."

Did he not say in his communication that if she would
obey him she could return to Parksides ? "

Yes," said Aunt Lethh, amazed at the extent of Mr.
Beeminster's knowledge, and in an agony of apprehension.

Did Miss Farebrother reply to that letter ? "
"No, she did not."

I suppose that her conduct met with your approval ?
She would be guided by you ? "

I endeavoured to guide her aright. Her father showed
no love for her."

But you may be prejudiced. Since your marriage there
has been no love lost between you and Miser Farebrother ? "

"I cannot deny it."

I beg your pardon ; these are matters which, perhaps, I
should not go into. They will, no doubt, be investigated
elsewhere. They are, however, an evidence of prejudice.
Did Miss Farebrother leave your house last night ? "

She did."

*' With your knowledge and consent ? "

We did not know of it until she was gone. She met
our servant, and gave her a message to us that she had gone
to Parksides."

Did you send after her ? "

"We did."

Who was your messenger ? "

A young man of the name of Barley."

Barley ! " said Mr. Beeminster, turning to his companion
with a look of intelligence. '' Tom Barley ? "

Yes."

There is a man of that name in the force."

It is the same. He is a policeman."

Ah ! Did he obtain any information of her ? "

No. He could not remain long away. He had to
return to his duty here in London."

So that he came back alone ? "

Yes."

^* Miss Farebrother, however, came back?"

Yes."

She is in the house now ?"

She is."

I believe she is not well ? "

She is very ill, and I am anxious to go to her."

A little patience, please, and all will be cleared up. At
what hour of the night or morning did she come back ? "

"At between nine and ten o'clock this morning."

"A strange hour for a young lady to come home. Had
she been to Parksides ? "

I do not know to a certainty."

She has not told you ? "

No."

Did she see her father ? "

I cannot say."

** You do not know ? She has not told you ? "

She has not."

"Then if she went to Parksides and saw her father, she
is concealing the fact from you ? " Aunt Lethh did not
reply. These cold, relentless questions, with their strange
and close adherence to fact, bewildered her. " When she
left this house last night she was in good health. Contradict
me if such is not the case, and in anything I may
say which is opposed to the truth. She was in good health
at that time. She returned this morning, sick and ill. Has
she worn this veil lately ? " He produced it, and handed
it to Aunt Lethh.

She wore it yesterday."

She must have worn it when she went out last night.
It was found in the grounds of Parksides to-day. Therefore
Miss Farebrother must have been there. Do you recognize
this brooch ? "

He handed her the brooch he had shown to 'Amelia
Jane.

*' It was given to my dear niece by her father's housekeeper."


Mrs. Pamflett ? "
Yes."

** It was found in the grounds of Parksides to-day." Mr.
Beeminster took his companion aside and whispered a few
words to him ; the man nodded and left the room. Aunt
Lethh heard him close the street door behind him. " When,
within your knowledge, did Miss Farebrother wear this
brooch last ? "

I cannot say positively ; it is a long time since. I
believe she did not bring it away with her from Parksides
when she left her father's house to come to us."
Can you swear to that ? "
No ; but my niece will be able to tell you."
** I shall not ask her ; it might be used in evidence
against her."

In evidence against her ! For God's sake tell me
what you are here for ! Do not keep me any longer in
suspense !"

Not for a moment longer. Miser Farebrother is dead."
VOL. Ill 41

Dead ! "

Dead. Found murdered this morning in the grounds
at Parksides. A cruel murder. I have brought a copy of
an evening paper with me containing the information.
It was just out as I came here. Would you like to read
it ? But you do not seem in a fit state. I will read it to
you."

Mr. Beeminster unfolded the paper and read :

Frightful Murder. — A Mysterious Case.

"This morning, at eleven o'clock, the discovery was made
of a horrible murder committed on a small estate known as
Parksides, on the outskirts of Beddington.

For a number of years Parksides has been inhabited
by a man who, from some cause or other, was generally
spoken of as Miser Farebrother. He was a man, it is
understood, of penurious habits, and the only servant in
the house was a house-keeper, Mrs. Pamflett. He had one
child, a daughter, who for some time past has not resided
with him, but who found a home with an aunt and uncle
living in London. Mrs. Pamflett bore the reputation of

being an attentive and capable servant, and of faithfully
performing her duty. Like her master, however, she was
not a favourite in the village. The establishment altogether
was not in good repute, although the only charge that can
be brought against the inmates is that they did not court
society, and kept themselves from their neighbours. This
remark does not apply to Miser Farebrother's daughter.
She was generally liked, and has been in the habit of going
frequently to London and paying long visits to her aunt
and uncle. The only persons in Parksides yesterday, until
the afternoon, were Miser Farebrother and Mrs. Pamflett,
the house-keeper. Then the house-keeper was sent by \tx
master to the telegraph office with a message to his manager
in London, requesting him to come down to Parksides,
presumably upon business. The business conducted in
London was a money-lending business, and — Miser Fare-brother
being confined to his house by gout and rheumatism
the confidential manager here was Mr. Jeremiah Pam-fleet,
the son of the house-keeper. Before the telegram
could reach him in London Mr. Pamflett was on his way to

his master, having an important matter of business to 



CUSS with him. The business settled, Mr. Pamflett left for

London.

At about ten o'clock last night a man called at Park-sides
to see Miser Farebrother, and being expected, was
admitted to Miser Farebrother's room. For the last three
or four years this man has been in the habit of paying
periodical visits to Miser Farebrother : he always came at
night, and always departed after the house-keeper had
retired to rest. This was in accordance with her master's
orders. Last night as usual she retired to her room while
her master and his visitor were closeted together. Before
seeking her rest, however, she paused outside the door of
her master's apartment, and inquired whether she could do
anything for him. He called out to her that he did not
require anything further from her, and that she was to goto
bed. She obeyed him, and getting into bed, was soon
asleep. She describes herself as a sound sleeper, and difficult
to awake. It was strange, therefore, that she should awake in
the middle of the night, with an impression that some person
had entered the house. She looked at her watch ; it was
twenty minutes past one o'clock. Not being satisfied with

a mere impression, she left her room in her night-dress and
went down to the kitchen. There, to her surprise, she saw
Miser Farebrother's daughter. The house-keeper does not
know how she got into the house, nor for how long a time
she had been there. Miss Farebrother asked her angrily
why she came down without being summoned, and the
house-keeper, in explanation, replied that she had been
awakened by a sound of some person moving in the house,
and that she naturally came down to see what it was. Still
speaking in anger. Miss Farebrother said that she was mistress
there, and she ordered the house-keeper back to her
room. After this order there was no apparent reason why
the house-keeper should remain, and she retired from the
kitchen and went to bed again. As she left the kitchen she
observed a large knife, with a horn handle, which she frequently
used for rough work, lying on the table.

As she lay in bed the house-keeper shortly afterward
heard the voices of two persons in altercation in the grounds,
and she recognised the voices of her master and his daughter.
It seemed to her that they were wrangling violently, but
this was not an unusual occurrence when Miss Farebrother

was at Parksides. Miser Farebrother was, besides, a person
of eccentric habits. He was frequently in the habit of
wandering through his grounds in the middle of the night.
The sounds grew fainter, as though the miser and his
daughter were walking away : or, as the house-keeper explains,
they may have entered the house and ceased their
dispute. However it was, she fell asleep again, and did
not awake till morning. Going down to her work, she
found everything as she had left it on the previous night,
with the exception that the knife, with the horn handle was
missing.

Miser Farebrother usually rang for the house-keeper
at nine o'clock in the morning. On this morning, however,
he did not summon her at the accustomed time.
Neither to this circumstance did she attach any particular
importance.

'•'When ten o'clock struck, however, the house-keeper felt
it strange that she did not hear her master's bell. She waited
another half-hour, and then she went to his room. She
knocked, and received no answer. Then she opened the
door, and found that the room was empty, and that there

was no appearance of the bed having been slept in. Somewhat
alarmed, but still not suspecting the dreadful truth,
she went to her young mistress's room. That also was empty,
and the bed had not been occupied.

Her alarm increased. She searched the grounds for
her master and mistress. Her mistress she did not find.
Her master she did. He was lying upon the ground, at
some distance from the house. Bending over him, she was
horrified by the discovery that he was dead — not only that
he was dead, but that he had been cruelly, ruthlessly murdered
! A dreadful wound was in his breast, and near him
was the knife with the horn handle, clotted with blood.*

She rushed into the village, and brought assistance
back — a doctor and a policeman, who were followed by two
or three idlers. It needed only a slight examination on the
part of the doctor to prove that a frightful murder had
been committed.

Here, for the present, the matter rests. The inquest
will be held tomorrow.

Certain discoveries have already been made which it
would be premature here to refer to. The affair is in the

hands of the police, who are confident they will succeed in
bringing the murderer to justice."

Aunt Lethh listened to the account of the murder with a
feeling of unutterable horror. Quiet and observant, Mr.
Beeminster carefully folded the newspaper and put it into
his pocket, saying as he did so :

*' The * certain discoveries ' to which the newspaper
reporter says it would be premature to refer are Miss
Farebrother's brooch and veil which were picked up in the
grounds."

Gracious God ! " cried Aunt Lethh, with a pallid
face and horror-struck eyes. "You do not — you cannot
suspect — "

Best to say as little as possible," said Mr. Beeminster,
rising.

"You brought a companion in with you," said Aunt
Lethh. " What was it you whispered to him, and why did
he go away ? "

Mr. Beeminster was standing near the window, which
faced the street. He looked out, and Aunt Lethh's eyes
followed the direction of his. The man she referred to was

on the opposite side of the road, strolling a few steps leisurely
this way and that, but never too far to lose a clear
view of the house upon which his eyes were fixed.

Have you placed him there to watch us ? " asked Aunt
Lethh, faintly. " And for what reason ? "

A murder has been committed," replied Mr. Westminster.
*' Miss Farebrother will most likely be served with a
notice to attend the inquest tomorrow."

It will kill her ! it will kill her ! " cried Aunt Lethh.

Mr. Beeminster, without replying, quietly left the room.

FRED CORNWALL TO THE RESCUE.

So overwhelming was Aunt Lethh's despair after Mr.
Beeminster's departure that she almost lost her senses.
She could not think coherently, but she had a vague consciousness
that something — she knew not what — must be
immediately done, and she put her hands over her face and
pressed her forehead hard in the endeavour to recall her
wandering thoughts. She was not successful ; her mind
grew more confused, and she might have remained for a
long time in this most terrible bewilderment had it not been
for a loud and rapid knocking at the street door. The
interruption had a salutary effect upon her ; it caused her
to start to her feet, and to become sensible to what was
actually occurring. What did that knocking portend?
Some fresh calamity ?

*' Fred ! Fred ! " she cried.

He hastened into the room, and she fell into his arms,
and sobbed there hysterically.

Aunt Lethhhh ! Aunt Lethhhh ! " said Fred, in a soothing tone.
There, there, be calm ! You have heard the dreadful
news, then ? "

"And you," whispered Aunt Lethh, amazed that he should
be so cool : his voice was solemn, it is true, but there was
in it no note of despair : " you know all ? "

All," he replied. " I bought a newspaper, and came
here at once. Has Phoebe been told ? "

No."

My poor girl ! " said Fred. " How will she bear it ? "

What paper did you buy ? " asked Aunt Lethh, bewildered
by his manner.

He gave it to her, and wiping the tears from her eyes and
looking at the column he pointed out, she saw that it was a
different newspaper from that which Mr. Beeminster had
brought with him. Fred's newspaper contained the simple
announcement that Miser Farebrother had been found dead
in his grounds at Parksides under such circumstances as
would lead to the belief that he had been murdered.

"You do not know the worst," said Aunt Lethh ; and
then, in as cain a voice as she could command, she related
what had occurred.

He listened in horror and amazement. Until this moment
he had been ignorant of Phoebe's visit to Parksides on the
previous night, and of her return to Camden Town at ten
o'clock that morning ; and he instantly saw that his darling
girl was in peril. The name of the paper from which Mr.
Beeminster had read the account of the murder was being
called in the street by a newspaper boy, and Fred darted
out and purchased a copy. After perusing the report he
remained quiet for a minute or two, with his head resting
in his hand. " We must be calm. Aunt Lethh," he said.
There is in this paper the first notes of a terrible accusation
against our dear girl. It is due to Mrs. Pamflett's
malice. She shall be punished for it — she and her infamous
son ! "

You will protect Phoebe ! " implored Aunt Lethh, laying
her hand on Fred's arm. " You will save her ! "

I will protect and save her. My poor Phoebe ! my poor
Phoebe ! But she will be able to clear up the mystery,

although she may not lead us immediately to the discovery
of the actual murderer. She can give us an explanation of
her own movements. What has she told you, Aunt
Lethh ? "

I have not got one sensible word from her, Fred, since
she came home."

What does the doctor say ? "

"That she must be kept quiet. He is coming again this
evening."

I must see her, if only for a moment. I will not agitate
her, but it is imperative that we learn something from her
which will enable us to act. Take me to her. Aunt
Lethh."

Aunt Lethh recognized the reasonableness of Fred's
request, and she led him upstairs to the bedroom. Fanny
was there, her eyes red with weeping.

Has she spoken, Fanny ? " asked Aunt Lethh. " Has
she said anything ? "

Only one word, mamma. Oh, Fred, isn't this dreadful !
There, mamma, that is all she says — ' Father ! father ! ' "
Go out of the room for a little while, Fanny," said Fred

Cornwall. " You can return when we leave." And then
to Aunt Lethh, when Fanny was gone, " Does Fanny know
of Mr. Beeminster's visit ? "

She knows nothing, Fred," replied Aunt Lethh.

It required a supreme effort on Fred's part to control his
agitation as he gazed upon the white pitiful face of his dear
girl. Her body was quite still, but her head tossed from
side to side on the pillow, and in her distressful moans there
could be distinguished but one word — " Father ! father !
father ! " repeated incessantly.

Phoebe ! " whispered Fred, bending over her.

'* She recognizes no one, Fred," whispered Aunt Lethh ;
*' not even me or Fanny."

They remained with the suffering girl for a quarter of an
hour, and then they stole softly from her bedside and went
down-stairs. Fred was very grave ; he realized that his dear
one was in no light peril.

Mr. Beeminster set a man to watch the house," said
Aunt Lethh, pointing to the window.

Fred looked out, and then, saying he would not be gone
a minute, left the house.

"There is a man watching also at the back of the house
he said, when he returned.

Oh, Fred," cried Aunt Lethh, " what does it all really
mean ? "

"The meaning is clear enough," replied Fred, and the
concentrated expression on his face showed how busily his
mind was employed ; " there has been a suspicion of the
horrible crime thrown upon the suffering angel upstairs. If
I were only Phoebe's lover, Aunt Lethh, I should be in a fury
of rage at the wicked accusation ; but I am her champion
and her defender, and I must keep my feelings well under
control, or I shall not be able to serve her. Some devilish
plot has been invented, and we must meet it. Phoebe, by
her actions last night and this morning, even by the state
in which she now lies, unfortunately gives some colour to
the vile, infernal accusation. Everything depends upon
coolness. Such strange cases are being daily brought to
light that the public are ready to believe anything. Now
tell me : what was Phoebe's motive in leaving last night
for Parksides without first letting you know ? "

I can only guess at it, Fred ; but I am sure it is the

truth. We were in the most dreadful trouble — I thought
nothing worse could happen to us, but I was mistaken ;
this is a thousand times more terrible ! "

Don't give way, Aunt Lethh. Remember what I said :
everything depends upon coolness. I know of your trouble,
and that you are, thank God ! out of it ; it was a money
trouble, and the money is paid."

*' Yes, Fred ; but how did you know ? "

Never mind ; go on about Phoebe."

'ewe were sitting in the dark, talking and mourning over
it. My husband was in despair. There was only one way
to prevent ruin, and that was to obtain a sum of money at
once — it was three hundred pounds, Fred ; a fortune — and
we saw no way. So we sat talking, and trying to console
each other. Suddenly I missed Phoebe ; she had left the
room so quietly that we did not observe it. A little while
afterward 'Amelia Jane told us that she had met Phoebe, who
had given her a message to us that she had gone to Park-sides
to see her father. There was but one reason for her
doing this ; it was to try and obtain the money from her
father that would prevent us being turned into the streets.

She must have left us just as my husband was saying that
as he walked to the bank he had a dream of hope, and
that an angel had come forward to save us. Then, I suppose,
the idea occurred to our dear girl to go to her father
and entreat him to help us. If she had spoken to me first,
I should have convinced her of the impossibility of her
errand meeting with success."

You have placed the right construction upon her leaving
unknown to you. She felt that if you suspected her
intention she would be unable to carry it out. When
you put her to bed this morning did you search her
pockets ? "

Yes, Fred ; and I hoped to find something that would
clear up the mystery. I found nothing."

You found something," said Fred. " Her handkerchief,
her purse? "

Yes, of course, those ; and her gloves."

She was not wearing them, then ? "

"No."

Was there any money in her purse ? "

Not one penny, Fred."

VOL. III. 42

I hear 'Amelia Jane's step on the stairs ; I must have a
word with her." He went to the door and called the girl,
who entered the room. " I want to ask you a question or
two," he said to her. " In answering me do not say a word
you are not certain of."

I won't, Mr. Cornwall," said 'Amelia Jane.

*' When you met Miss Phoebe last night did she seem
very much agitated ? "

Very much, Mr. Cornwall. More nor I can express.
She was crying, but she didn't want me to see. She tried
to keep her face from me."

You did not attempt to stop her? You asked her no
questions ? "

Lor', Mr. Cornwall, she didn't give me time to get out
a single word ! She said what she had got to say, and she
ran away like lightning."

Did she wear a veil ? "

"Yes, Mr. Cornwall, she did. The veil that man as
come 'ere this afternoon showed me, and arksed me
whether Miss Phoebe wore it last night when she went away.
'However he got 'old of it is more than I can guess."

When he asked you whether Miss Phoebe wore the veil,
what did you say ? "

*' I sed, yes, she did. And he showed me a brooch, and
wanted to git me to say that she wore that last night; but
I didn't, because I ain't seen that brooch on Miss Phoebe
for a long time."

You could swear," said Fred, eagerly, " that she did
not wear a brooch when you saw her last night ? "

No, Mr. Cornwall, I couldn't swear that. I could swear
I didn't see it — that's all. But I could swear to the
veil."

Fred bit his lip. "If any man you don't know asks you
any further questions about Miss Phoebe, do not answer
him."

I won't, Mr. Cornwall ; they shan't pump me. That
feller tried to, but he didn't git very much."

He got enough," thought Fred, and said aloud, "That

will do, 'Amelia Jane ; you can go. And now. Aunt Lethh,

quite apart from the statement which Mrs. Pamflett gave

the reporters, it is proved that Phoebe was at Parksides last

night. How did she get there ? "

42—2

I really can't say, Fred. I think she must have been
too late for the last train,"

Have you an ' A B C ' in the house ? "

No."

I must see at what time the last train starts. Do you
think she came back to London by the train this morning ? "

I don't know, Fred. Poor child ! her feet were very
much blistered."

Good God ! Surely she could not have walked ! " He
paced the room in great excitement. '' About the brooch.
Aunt Lethh ? Can you fix any definite time — any particular
day — on which you last saw it in Phoebe's possession ? "

*' No, Fred; but I am sure I haven't seen it for a good
many weeks."

*•' That she has not worn it for a good many weeks ? "

Not to my knowledge."

You could not swear she has not worn it ? "

No."

You could not swear she did not wear it last night ? "
** No. But it is scarcely likely, with her feelings toward
that wretch Mrs. Pamflett, that she would ever wear it after

she was turned out of her father's house. What I am saying
seems to trouble you."

It does trouble me. I pray that I may be wrong in my
impressions; but I fear that dark days are before us."
"If we speak the truth, Fred, there is nothing to fear."
I am not so sure," said Fred, gloomily.
*' But we 7?iust speak the truth, Fred ! "
Yes ; it must be spoken — by us at least."
Your fears may be groundless, Fred."
I am afraid not." >

"All we can do is to hope for the best." )

Not at all, Aunt Lethh. What we have to do is to work
for the best. Hoping never yet overcame a villainous plot.
I must go now. There is much to do. I shall be here
again in the evening."

THE INQUEST.

The following report of the inquest appeared in the special
editions of the evening papers on the following evening :

The inquest upon the body of the gentleman known as
Miser ' Farebrother, who was found dead in the grounds
of Parksides, was held in Beddington this morning.

The coroner, addressing the jury, said that they were
about to investigate what there was little reason to doubt
was a foul murder. Certain witnesses were present whose
evidence would enable them to decide under what circumstances
death had taken place. He was informed that one
witness was absent whose evidence might have an important
bearing upon the inquiry, although it would not probably
alter the verdict which would be given. Their first duty was
to identify the body of the dead man.

This being done, the actual inquiry commenced. The

first witness called was Mrs. Deborah Pamflett. Before she
was examined, however, Mr. Frederick Cornwall, barrister,
rose, and asked to be allowed to say a few words.

The Coroner : ' Have they any bearing upon this inquiry
? '

Mr. Cornwall : ' A direct bearing. I appear here to
watch the case on behalf of the only child of the murdered
man, and I request permission to put some questions to the
witnesses, if I consider it necessary to do so.'

The Coroner : * I shall have no objection to pertinent
questions being put to the witnesses, but it must be done
through me.' •

Mr. Cornwall : ' I thank you, sir. You have referred
to the absence of a witness whose evidence would be likely
to have an important bearing upon this inquiry. I assume
that the witness referred to is the lady I represent. An unhappy
circumstance prevents her attendance. I hand you
a certificate, signed by two doctors, to the effect that Miss
Farebrother is suffering from brain-fever, and that she is
not in a fit state to be removed from the house in which she
is lying, or to be examined either there or here. Were she

well enough she would be present on this occasion, painful

as it would be to her.'

"The Coroner: * In whose house is Miss Farebrother

being nursed ? '

Mr. Cornwall : * In her aunt's house in Camden Town.

You will find the exact address on the certificate.'

The certificate was handed in, and the examination of

Mrs. Pamflett was proceeded with.

'Your name is Deborah Pamflett ? ' — ' Yes.'

* You are a widow ? ' — ' Yes.'

* In the service of the deceased ? ' — ' Yes.'

' In what capacity ? ' — ' As his house-keeper.'

' How long have you been so employed ? ' — ' Eighteen

years.'

' Were there any other servants in the house ? ' — ' None.'

* Not at any time during your service ? ' — ' Not at anytime.'


"'Of how many persons did the household of the
deceased consist ? ' — ' Usually of three — himself, his daughter
and me.'

' Why do you say usually ? ' — ' Because his daughter

was frequently absent on visits to her aunt and uncle, in
London.'

' Was she absent on the day of the death of your
master ? ' — ' She had been absent from the house for some
weeks, but on the night my master met his death she was
present.'

' Relate the occurrences of that day, as far as your
memory will serve you.' — ' My memory is pretty faithful.
My master rose at his usual hour, and the day passed
quietly. He received one visitor in the afternoon — my
son, who managed his business for him in London, and
who, I believe, will be examined here. Before my* son
arrived my master sent me to the telegraph office with a
message to him, asking him to come upon business. My
son, however, anticipated the message, and alighted from
the train just as I sent off the message. He met me in the
village, and we walked to Parksides together. When I went
to my master and told him that my son had arrived, he expressed
himself as being very pleased. Between my master
and my son the most friendly and cordial relations existed ;
they never had a word of difference. This made my own

service in the house very pleasant, so far as my master was
concerned. I was present during some portion of the time
my son was with our master, who spoke in great praise of
the way my son was conducting the London business. They
had tea together in my master's room, and after that my
son left for London.'

*' * At what hour did he leave ? ' — ' At about seven o'clock.
I did not take particular note of the time, there being no
occasion for it, but that was about the hour, within a few
minutes one way or another. At eight o'clock my master
rang the bell for me, and I went up to him. I was in the
habit of sitting with him often when there was no one else
in the house, and sometimes of reading the paper to him.
He was very lonely, and very much troubled and unhappy
about his daughter.'

Mr. Cornwall (rising) : ' I submit, sir, that these observations
do not come within the scope of the present
inquiry.'

"The Coroner: 'I think the witness is giving her
evidence fairly. It will, however, be as well that she should
confine herself as much as possible to facts.'

Witness : * I am stating facts, sir

The Coroner : ' I mean facts relating to the death
of the deceased. It is sufficient, perhaps, at present to
know that there was some disturbance of those affectionate
relations which should exist between father and daughter.'
• To witness : * Under what circumstances did Miss
Farebrother, on the last occasion, leave her father's house ?
I must request you not to interrupt the proceedings, Mr.
Cornwall. You are here only upon courtesy.'

'' Mr. Cornwall : I might contest that, sir ; but I will
interrupt as little as possible.'

"The Coroner (to witness): 'Answer my question.' —
I do not know the precise circumstances, sir. All I know
is that they had a violent quarrel late at night, and that
Miss Farebrother left against her father's wish, and without
his consent. After her departure he was very unhappy,
and shed tears.'

The Coroner : * Proceed now with the events of the
day you are describing.' — ' I sat with my master till ten
o'clock, and then there was a ring at the gate bell. My
master said it was a visitor he was expecting, and I went

down and admitted him. I do not know his name, but
for the last three or four years he came perhaps four or
five times a year — always at night — and he and my master
would be closeted together for two or three hours. On
this occasion that he was with my master I went down to
the kitchen, and did my work there. I put everything in
order, and saw that the things were in their right places.
Among other things, the knives, which I kept in the dresser
drawer.'

' Have you any reason for particularly mentioning the
knives?' — 'Yes, sir. Among them was a large knife with
a horn handle, which I had recently sharpened. My work
being finished, I went up to my bedroom, stopping on my
way outside my master's door, and asking him whether he
wanted anything. He answered no, and that I was to get
to bed. It was his usual answer, and I obeyed him ; there
was nothing to excite my suspicions. At a little after
eleven I was in bed and asleep. I slept for over two
hours, and then I awoke. Sounds in the lower part of
the house had roused me. I listened, and heard some one
moving about. Lighting a candle, I looked at my watch.

It was twenty minutes past one. I was not easy in my
mind, and I went down-stairs. I listened a moment at my
master's door, but all was still in the room. There was a
light there, however, and I knocked softly. I got no
answer, and I gently tried the handle ; the door was unlocked,
and I took a step into the room. There was no
one there but my master, and he was asleep in his chair.
He sometimes slept so for a few hours ; he suffered
greatly from gout and rheumatism, and he has said to me
that he felt easier in that position than in bed. I closed
the door quietly and went down to the kitchen, and thereto
my astonishment, I saw Miss Farebrother. She had a
knife in her hand, the knife with a horn handle, and she
put it hastily on the table as I entered. The drawer in
which I kept my knives was open ; when I went to bed I
left it closed. Miss Farebrother was very angry at my
making my appearance, and she asked me how I dared to
play the spy upon her. I told her that I was not playing the
spy, and that I had been disturbed in my sleep by a noise
in the house, and I came down to see what it was. I said
something, too, about how astonishing it was that she

should come home at such an hour, and she replied that it
was no business of mine, and that I was to go to my room
at once, or she would have me bundled out of the house
the first thing in the morning. It was no use answering
her ; she was my mistress, and I had to obey her ; so I
went up to my room again. I can't exactly say how long
it was afterward, but it could not have been very long —
perhaps half an hour or three-quarters, bringing the time to
past two o'clock — that I heard the voices of my master
and his daughter outside the house. Whether she had
gone up to him and woke him, or whether he had gone
out, as he sometimes did in the middle of the night, I
don't know, but at the time I heard them they were in the
grounds. They both seemed to be very angry. Miss Fare-brother,
as well as I could make out, was insisting that her
father should give her a sum of money, and she was using
threats toward him. Presently he spoke in a more gentle
tone to her, and I heard him say, " Wait till I am dead and
it will all be yours, if you will come back and behave as a
dutiful and affectionate daughter to me." And I heard her
answer : " I will do as I please and go where I please. You

ought to have been dead long ago ! You had better be
careful!" After that the voices grew fainter and fainter, as
if they were moving away.*

The Coroner : ' Hearing what you did, why did you
not go down to them ? ' — ' I did not like to ; and, to tell
the truth, it would have been as much as my situation was
worth to interfere. They had often quarrelled like that,
though not in the exact words I heard then ; and twice,
some time ago, when I did interfere, I was sent away, and
told not to mix myself up with family quarrels.'

' Who used these words to you ? ' — ' Principally Miss
Farebrother; but my master also said, very sorrowfully,
that I had better never trouble myself, and that my interference
would only make things worse.'

' Had they ever quarrelled in the middle of the night
before ? ' — ' Yes ; and she was continually threatening him,
so that there was nothing very unusual in this quarrel, although
it was as bad as any that ever reached my ears.'

' When you could no longer hear them, did you fall
asleep ? ' — 'Not immediately ; perhaps not for half an hour;
I can't be sure.'

*' * Did you hear them return to the house ? ' — * I heard
nothing more of them.'

' Well, then, you fell asleep. At what hour in the
morning did you awake ? ' — ' At a little before seven — my
usual time. By seven o'clock I was in the kitchen, going
on with my work.'

' Did you observe anything particular in the kitchen ? '

Nothing particular. Things were pretty much as I had
left them on the night before.

'The drawer in which you kept your knives — was it
closed ? ' — ' Yes, it was closed.'

' The knife with the horn handle — where was that ? ' —

I did not know. I had no occasion to use it, and I did
not look for it.'

' At what time in the morning did the deceased usually
ring his bell for you ? ' — ' At nine o'clock or thereabouts ;
but there were exceptions, and when nine o'clock passed
and I was not summoned, I did not attach any importance
to it.'

' You supposed Miss Farebrother to be in the house ? '
* Oh yes ; but I did not expect to hear her bell for a long

lime. She generally slept till ten or eleven o'clock. I
waited till half-past ten, and then, being uneasy at not hearing
my master's bell, I went to his room, and as there was
no answer to my knock, I opened the door. My master
was not there, and the bed had not been slept in. Then I
went to Miss Farebrother's room, and she was not there,
and she had not slept in her bed. I became frightened,
and I thought I would look about the grounds. It was
then that I discovered my master lying dead, with blood
upon him, and the knife with the horn handle lying near
him, with clotted blood on it. I flew to the village for
assistance, and some people came back with me, and* said
that my master had been murdered.'

' How far from the house is the spot upon which you.
discovered the body of the deceased ? ' — ' I cannot say
Perhaps a quarter of a mile.'

' Could you, being in the house, have heard any sounds,
proceeding from that spot ? ' — ' It would be almost, if not
quite, impossible.'

' So that if there had been any cries for help, they

would not have reached your ears ? ' — * No, they could not.'
VOL. III. 43

* Now, did you observe anything particular about Miss
Farebrother's dress when you found her in the kitchen so
late at night? ' — ' She was dressed as she usually was.'

'fully dressed'— 'Yes.'

*' ' Did she wear a hat ? '— ' Yes.'

'With a veil to it ? ' — ' Yes, there was a veil to it.'

'Would you be able to recognize the veil ? ' — ' Yes.'

' Is this it ? ' (Veil produced.) — ' Yes, this is it.'

' Did she wear any ornaments ? ' — ' I noticed only one,
and I should not have noticed that if I had not presented
it to her as a birthday gift.'

' What was the ornament ? ' — ' A brooch.'

' Can you identify it ? ' — ' Oh yes ; it is a very particular
brooch. My mother had it before me.'

*' ' Is this it ? '— ' Yes, this is it.'

' That is all I have to ask you.' — ' Thank you, sir.'

Mr. Cornwall : ' A moment, please.'

"The Coroner: 'You understand, Mr. Cornwall, that I
shall check you if you ask any questions irrelevant to this
inquiry ?i'

Mr. Cornwall : ' I quite understand it, sir.' To witness :

Are you positive that your memory is faithful upon all
the events you have described ? ' — * I am very positive,
sir.'

As to what took place between you and Miss Fare-brother
in the kitchen ? ' — ' Everything is as I had described. '

* The conversation between you ? ' — * Yes, sir.'

"' And the knife with the horn handle?' — 'It is as I
have said, sir.'

' You swear that Miss Farebrother frequently threatened
her father?' — * Frequently, sir, I am sorry to say.'

' Did you ever mention this continual disagreement to
any person ? ' — *No, sir, except to my son. I haven acquaintances.'


* Not one ? '— ' Not one.'

*' The Coroner : ' In this place, Mr. Cornwall, these
questions do not appear to me to be pertinent. Some are
repetitions of questions already asked and answered, others
do not affect the particular inquiry upon which we are engaged.'


Mr. Cornwall : * I am sorry to hear that expression of

opinion from you, for there is to me, and doubtless to

43—2

Others, something Uke a direct accusation in the witness's
evidence.'

Witness (in a quiet tone) : ' I do not accuse any one.
I am speaking the truth.'

Mr. Cornwall : ' Then it is the truth, and you swear
it, that when you last saw Miss Farebrother she wore the
brooch which you gave her as a birthday gift ? ' — ' It is the
truth, and I swear it.'

'* * Can you describe the man who visited the deceased on
the night of his death ? ' — ' I can, sir.'

The Coroner : ' It is a proper question, and it should
have been asked. I should doubtless have recalled the
witness to answer it.'

Witness : ' He is a man not much taller than I am. I
am above the usual height of a woman. His face is dark ;
he has a large mouth and a small nose; his eyes are blue.'

' How dressed ? ' — ' In a dark tweed suit.'

' Wearing any jewellery ? ' — ' A silver chain and a large
diamond ring.'

' They scarcely match. The man who can afford to
wear a large diamond would be likely to wear a gold chain.'

' I don't know about that. The diamond may not be
genuine.'

' About what age would you suppose ? ' — ' About forty.'
"The next witness called was Dr. Playfellow. He
deposed that the deceased had met his death by violence.
It was caused by the wound in his breast, inflicted by precisely
such a weapon as the knife with the horn handle.
Asked whether the deceased might not have stabbed himself,
Dr. Playfellow said that from the direction of the
wound and the position in which the body was found, it
was impossible that death could have been inflicted by his
own hands. -

"Jeremiah Pamflett was next examined. He is the son
of the murdered man's house-keeper, and he testified that
he had been in the employment of the deceased since he
was a lad, and that he had risen from the position of a petty
clerk to that of sole manager of Miser Farebrother's business.
Between him and his master the most perfect harmony
existed ; they had never had a word of difference,
and his master reposed complete confidence in him. On
the afternoon before his master's death he went to Park-sides

to submit certain accounts to Miser Farebrother,
anticipating the telegram which was sent to him requesting
him to come. The deceased expressed great satisfaction at
his attention to business, and in the course of the interview
informed the witness that it was his intention to admit him
as a partner. He, the witness, left Parksides in a very
happy frame of mind at this promised reward of his long
and faithful service. Miser Farebrother was a kind and
liberal master ; the witness declared he could not desire a
better.

A Juryman : ' You say he was a kind master. Was hein
other respects a kind man ? ' — ' Very kind and considerate
; he deserved greater happiness than he enjoyed.'

Being asked to explain the meaning of this statement,
the witness exhibited a reluctance to reply, and said he
was sorry he had let the words slip. He was, however,
pressed to explain, and he then said that the deceased was
made very unhappy by the want of affection shown to him
by his daughter.

'• The Juryman : * Was he kind to his daughter ? ' — ' Very
kind.'

"was there any disagreement between them?' —

There was continual disagreement ; but it was not
my master's fault. He did all he could to please
her.'

' Do you know the cause of this disagreement ? ' — ' It
was partly about money.'

' That she asked for, and that he would not give ? ' —

Yes.'

' But you said he was very kind to her. The deceased
was a man of means. Why should he refuse to give his
daughter money ? ' — ' From what my master said to nie at
different times, it was because she demanded sums of
money for purposes of which he did not approve. He was
exceedingly liberal to her where she herself was concerned;
but he objected to his money being given to persons who
hated him.'

' To what persons do you refer ? ' — * To her relatives in
London — the only relatives she has.*

"what is the name of these relatives?' — 'Lethbridge
They live in Camden Town.'

' And Miss Farebrother wanted money for them ? ' —

According to what my master said, she was always wanting
money for them.'

'was she in the habit of visiting them?' — 'Continually.'


' With the consent of the deceased ? ' — ' Against his
consent. He frequently remonstrated with her for paying
long visits to persons who bore him such ill-will'

*' ' In spite of these remonstrances she continued to
visit them ?' — 'Yes.'

' Mention has been made of a man who was in the habit
of visiting the deceased in his home at Parksides late at
night. Do you know anything of him ? ' — ' Nothing,
except what my mother has told me and has told
you.'

' Did he not visit the office in London ? ' — ' No. I
never saw him.'

'" ' Did no conversation ever pass between you and the
deceased respecting him ? ' — ' None.'
" 'Then you do not know upon what business he came ? '
' No ; but it could not have been upon the affairs of the
London business, or I should have heard it.'

The only questions put to this witness by Mr. Cornwall
were these :

' By what train did you leave for London on the occasion
of your last visit to the deceased ? ' — ' By the 8. 12.'

'• ' Did you go direct to the office when you reached
London'— 'Yes.'

' At what time did you arrive at the office ? ' — ' At
about ten o'clock.'

' You sleep there ? '— ' Yes.'

"The next witness called was Mrs. Lethbridge, whose
evidence was to the following effect :

' You are a relative of the deceased ? ' — ' I am his
sister-in-law.'

'Were you upon friendly terms with him ? ' — ' No.'
' Nor any of your family ? ' — ' No. But we are not to
blame for that.'

- " 'Was his daughter in the habit of visiting your house? '
-^' Yes.'

*' ' Frequently ? ' — ' Frequently.'

' And of remaining there for any length of time ? ' —
Yes ; generally for three or four days.'

' Your intimacy with her, then, was of a thoroughly
friendly nature ? ' — ' Of a most affectionate nature. I love
her as a child of my own.'

' Was that the sentiment of all your family? ' — ' Yes.'

' Were Miss Farebrother's visits to your house paid with
the consent of the deceased ? ' — ' Yes.'

' Did you learn this from him ? ' — * No. We very seldom
saw him.'

*' * In point of fact, how many times have you or any of
your family seen him, say within these eight or nine years ? '
' Only twice.'

* Where ? At your house in London ? ' — ' No ; at his
house in Parksides ? '

"eat his invitation?' — * No. The first time we were
asked by his daughter. It was her birthday, but we understood
that our visit would be agreeable to him.'

' You understood. From whom ? ' — ' From my niece.*

* On that occasion how long were you at Parksides ? *
' For five or six hours.'

' Did you and your family partake of any meal there ? '
' We had tea ? '

' Was the deceased present at the table ? ' — ' No ; he
sent word that he was not well enough to join us.'

' Was your second visit paid upon his invitation ? ' —
No ; we went of our own accord.'

' Who went ? ' — ' I, my niece, and Mr. Cornwall.'
' Is Mr. Cornwall the gentleman who represents Miss
Farebrother at this inquest.' — ' Yes.'

'Why did he accompany you ? ' — ' Must I answer? '
' It is at your own discretion. I cannot compel you ? '
Mr. Cornwall : ' Answer the question, Mrs. Lethbridge.'
Witness : ' Mr. Cornwall had proposed to my niece,
and he accompanied us for the purpose of asking Mr.
Farebrother's consent to the engagement.'
'Was that consent given ? ' — ' No.'
' Did the deceased turn you and Mr. Cornwall from
his house ? ' — ' Yes.'

' In the question I am about to ask you I will not confine
myself to the last eight or nine years. I will go as far
back as the birth of the deceased's daughter, who is now
of a marriageable age. During this long period did the
deceased ever visit your house ? ' — ' No.'

* Not once ? ' — ' Not once.'

*' ' Did he correspond with you, or you with him ? ' —
No.'

"not a letter, then, passed between you?' — 'Not a
letter.'

' Nor a direct communication of any kind ? You
hesitate ! ' — 'I was considering. There was one letter.'

* Written and sent by you or the deceased ? ' — ' By Mr.
Farebrother. It was a great many years ago. My niece
then was scarcely two years of age, and her poor mother was
dying. She wished to see me before she died, and it was
at her direction that her husband wrote to me.'

' It appears that even previous to that time you were
not upon friendly terms with him ? ' — ' It was so, unhappily.'
' Did you comply with the request contained in that
letter ? ' — ' Yes ; and I saw my sister. I was with her when
she died, and I promised to look after her child and to
love her as my own.'

' I wish you to understand that it is entirely at your
discretion whether you reply to certain of my questions.
On that visit, so long ago, did you gather the impression

that the deceased was glad to see you — that you were, in
fact, welcome in his house ? ' — * I must speak the truth.
He was not glad to see me; I was not welcome.'

' We can, therefore, arrive but at one conclusion —
that there existed an absolute and distinct antipathy on one
side or both. I come now to the night upon which the
deceased met his death. Your niece was living with you
then ? '— ' Yes.'

' I will not inquire into the circumstances of her taking
up her residence with you when her father's home was open
to her.' — ' It was not open to her.'

'You say that ? Not under any conditions ? Had he
positively refused ever to receive her again as a daughter ? '
' Unless under conditions which were repugnant to her.'

' Then her father's home was open to her if she were
prepared to behave dutifully, and to obey him ? ' — ' I can ,
not deny that ; but as I have said, his conditions were
repugnant to her.'

' Into those domestic matters it is not our business to
inquire. A few hours before her father was murdered she
left your house? ' — ' She did.'

* With your knowledge ? ' — * Without my knowledge.'

* How did you become acquainted with her movements? '
* She met our servant, and desired her to give us a
message that she was going to Parksides to see her
father.'

' It was a strange hour for her to leave. Did she
return to your house on that night? ' — ' No.'

'The next morning? ' — ' Yes.'

'At what time ? ' — ' x\t about ten o'clock.'

' Did she give you any explanation of her movements?'
' She could not do so. She was in a state of exhaustion
and was very ill.'

' What was the nature of her illness ? ' — * She was
delirious.'

' We have a certificate that she has brain fever.' — ' It is
unhappily true.'

"'Do you recognize this veil?' (Veil produced.) — 'It
is one my niece wore.'

' On that night ? ' — ' I cannot positively say, but it is
hers.'

' Do you recognize this brooch ? ' — ' I have seen it,

but I do not think it has been in her possession for some
weeks.'

*scan you swear to that? ' — 'No, I cannot swear to it.'

' When she returned home, did it strike you that she
must have experienced some excitement ?' — 'Yes.'

'' ' Some very strong excitement ? ' — 'Yes.*

' And she gave you no explanation of it ? ' — ' She could
not, because of her condition.'

Mr. Cornwall asked no questions of this witness, who
several times in the course of the examination was much
agitated.

"Witnesses were called who proved that the veil and
the brooch were found near the body of the murdered
man.

The coroner having addressed the jury, they considered
their verdict, which was that Miser Farebrother had been
murdered by some person or persons unknown.

We understand that a warrant has been issued for the
arrest of Phoebe Farebrother on the charge of murdering
her father, Miser Farebrother."

THE TRIAL AND VERDICT EXTRACTED FROM A POPULAR

DAILY PAPER.

The trial of Phoebe Farebrother for the murder of her
father, commonly known as Miser Farebrother, terminated
last evening, and will be long remembered as one of the
most remarkable and painful in criminal records. The
extraordinary interest exhibited by the public in the case is
only partially due to the murder itself and to the relations
which existed between the unhappy prisoner and the deceased
; chiefly it may be set down to the youth and beauty
of the young woman who was accused of a crime so horrible
and atrocious. As she stood in the dock it was almost
impossible to believe that a being so lovely and gentle could
harbour a thought that was not innocent and pure, and the
demeanour of those who were present at the trial was sufficient
to prove that popular sympathy was enlisted on her

side. Fitting it is — and especially fitting in this case — that
justice should be blind.

Now that the trial is over, the verdict given, and the
sentence pronounced, we propose to devote some brief
attention to those features in it which rendered it remarkable.
The case is one of circumstantial evidence, and
turned no less upon the statements of those who testified
uncompromisingly against the prisoner than upon the
statements of her friends, whose sorrowful evidence weighed
heavily against her.

The household of Miser Farebrother, in the lifetime of

the unfortunate man, was eminently cold and cheerless.

Love occupied no place therein. A man of wealth and

means, all the avenues of enjoyment were open to him,

but he cared only for the accumulation of money. This

may be said to have been his one object, and he

devoted to it all his energies. An attempt was made

to prove that he was of an affectionate and tender

nature, and that his behaviour toward his child was that

of a loving father, but this view of his character may be

unhesitatingly dismissed. It renders the crime no less
VOL. III. 44

heinous ; that he was ruthlessly murdered is an established
fact.

He had earned the sobriquet of ' miser,' and he was
entitled to it. A miser he was, whose supreme passion was
that of accumulating wealth. His business — that of a
money-lender — was in keeping with his ambition, and enabled
him to compass it. Had he been animated by
sentiments of a nobler kind they would have found vent inaction
which would have won for him esteem and gratitude
j but he did good neither openly nor by stealth. That
the two persons who served him, Mrs. Pamflett and her
son, Jeremiah Pamflett, should speak well of him is natural
and to their credit. Were it left to them to write his epitaph
mankind would be deceived — as it is in many instances
by words graven on tombstones.

"He led in Parksides practically a lonely existence, and it
would be difficult to imagine a more mournful picture than
that of a motherless child brought up amidst such surroundings.
Spacious as are the grounds of Parksides, they were
allowed to run to waste ; with the exception of his housekeeper
and her son he had not a friend ; he received no

visitors, and neither dispensed nor accepted hospitality of any
kind j his child had no child companions, and between her
and her father's servants existed a feeling of strong antipathy
; he made no effort to provide her with any sort of
education ; in the great house they occupied the light of
home never shone. His daughter, however, was not entirely
without friends. Her aunt and uncle, Mr. and Mrs.
Lethbridge, and their two children, lived in London, and
for some years past Phoebe Farebrother has been in the
habit of visiting their house, and of participating, through
them, in ordinary and moderate enjoyments. We may at
once admit that the character borne by Mr. and Mrs. Lethbridge
is unimpeachable — and this, despite the evidence
given by Mrs. Pamflett and her son, in which may be discerned
a distinct bias against them as designing persons,
whose aim was to extort money from the murdered man.
No direct testimony to the establishment of this view is
forthcoming, and the general repute of the Lethbridges is
a contradiction of it. A feeling of bitterness appears to
have existed for years between these parties ; on one side,

Miser Farebrother and Mrs. and Jeremiah Pamflett ; on the

44—2

Other, Miser Farebrother's unhappy daughter and her relatives
in London. This was the state of affairs when Phoebe
Farebrother, a few weeks before her father's death, left his
house, and found her way to her aunt's home in London,
where she was received with open arms.

There are side issues to which we do not intend to
refer at any length ; these issues relate to Miser Fare-brother's
desire that his daughter should marry a man of
his choosing, and to her having already set her affections
upon a man of whom her father did not approve. In connection
with these opposing desires is an incident which
will presently be mentioned.

It has been elicited that on the night of Miser Fare-brother's
murder, and for some time previous, the Lethe
were in pecuniary difficulties, to extricate them from
which a sum of money was immediately required. A
puzzling feature in the whole of this sad case is the absolute
frankness which the Lethbridges have displayed as to their
position and the movements of the prisoner up to the hour
when the warrant for her arrest was issued. So far as can
be seen there has been no concealment whatever of anything

within their knowledge, and this is the more strange
because much of their evidence told directly against the
prisoner.

*' There seemed to be only one way of obtaining the
money required to extricate the Lethbridges from their
difficulties, and that was by a successful application to
Miser Farebrother. There is no evidence that they asked
their niece to appeal to her father in their behalf ; they
positively deny having done so, and she herself says that no
word fell from their lips to that effect. When she left their
house in London with the intention of proceeding to Park-sides,
she did so without their knowledge. There can be no
doubt that she was actuated by a wish to help them. From
the moment she left them until she returned the next
morning in a state of prostration, physically and mentally,
they are in darkness as to what occurred, and can throw no
light whatever upon her movements. During that night
Miser Farebrother met his death. At the trial three articles
were brought in evidence against the prisoner. The first
is a brooch presented to her on her last birthday by Mrs.
Pamflett. This brooch was found in the grounds of Park-sides,

near to the body of the murdered man. There is
conflicting testimony upon the subject of this brooch. Mr.
and Mrs. Lethbridge and their daughter, Miss Fanny Lethbridge,
have no recollection of having seen the brooch from
the time the prisoner left Parksides to take up her residence
with them. They cannot swear that on the fatal night she
did not wear it ; but Miss Lethbridge is positive that her
cousin did not bring it with her from Parksides. The
two young women slept together, and not a word passed
between them with respect to this ornament. Miss Lethbridge's
statement, therefore, is based upon an assumption.
The prisoner avers that when she quitted her
father's house she did not take the brooch with her. On
the other hand, Mrs. Pamflett swears positively that the
prisoner did take it away with her. The house-keeper made
repeated examinations of the room in Parksides in which
the prisoner slept, and never saw the brooch after she left.
Here, then, we have a positive oath against a vague assumption,
and this sworn evidence is strengthened by the
fact of the brooch having been found close to the body of
her master. If the prisoner did not wear it on the

night of the murder, how could it have got into the
grounds ?

The second article brought in evidence against the prisoner
is her veil. Here there is no conflicting testimony.
The prisoner admits having worn the veil when she went to
Parksides, and this veil was also found in the grounds close
to the body.

The third article is the prisoner's handkerchief which
her aunt took from her pocket when she returned in the
morning. There were stains of blood upon the handkerchief,
which the prosecution declares was the blood of the
murdered man. The prisoner declares that the blood proceeded
from scratches she received by stumbling in the
dark against fences and coming in contact with the branches
of trees. That she did sustain some such slight wounds is
undoubtedly true ; and although the weight of conflicting
evidence as to the blood-stains on the handkerchief is
about equal, the theory of the prosecution is strengthened
by independent circumstances in connection with the
murder.

What Mrs. Pamflett knows of the strangle and sudden

visit of the prisoner to Parksides at midnight need not here
be recapitulated. Her evidence has been printed in our
columns on three occasions : first when the inquest on the
body was held ; again, when the prisoner was brought before
the magistrate and committed for trial ; and again, at greater
length, during the trial just ended. What passed between
her and the prisoner, the incident of the knife with the horn
handle with which the deed was done, the high words in
the grounds between the prisoner and her father, especially
those uttered by the prisoner : * I will do as I please, and
go where I please. You ought to have been dead long ago !
You had better be careful ! ' — all this has been fully reported.
The visit of a strange man to Miser Farebrother
on this night is still a mystery. It was hoped by the prosecution
that the endeavour to trace this man would have
been successful, or that he himself would have voluntarily
come forward to give evidence, but the hope has not been
fulfilled. He remains in hiding, and will probably so continue
to remain. The theory of the prosecution is a
feasible one — that this man's visits to Miser Farebrother
being paid in secret, his business was of a questionable

nature, the revealment of which would bring him into
trouble. Great care and caution were always displayed on
the occasion of these visits, and the minute description of
his dress and appearance given by Mrs. Pamflett is of little
value, in the absence of any other evidence respecting him,
so long as he chooses to remain hidden.

The prisoner's statement as to what occurred, so far as
she can remember, from the time she left her aunt's house
in London on the night of the murder to the hour she returned
to it on the following morning, is as follows :

She admits that when she went away, unknown to her
relatives, she did so with the purpose of going to Parksides
and appealing to her father to give her a sum of money
which would extricate the Lethbridges from their difficulties.
' Had I told them what was in my mind,' she says,
they would have prevented me from leaving them, having
no hope that my errand would be successful. But I had
thought of a plan by which I could induce my father to
comply with my request. 1 did not dare to mention this
plan to my aunt, because it would only have strengthened
her opposition to my project.' She thus explains the nature

of this plan : Between her and her father were two causes
of disagreement. The first was her intimacy with the
Lethbridges. He disapproved of it, and wished her to discontinue
her visits, and to have nothing more to do with
them. To this she was now ready to agree if he would
advance her the money she asked for. ' I could not promise
to forget them,' she says ; ' that would have been
impossible — my love for them was so great, and also my
gratitude for the kindness and affection they showed me
from the time my mother died. But I would have borne
my suffering in secret, and would never have spoken of it
reproachfully to my father. I should have been only too
thankful if he would have assisted me to repay them, in
some small measure, for all their wonderful kindness to me.
They have made great sacrifices for me. Should I hesitate
to make a sacrifice for them in return? It was only my
own happiness that was at stake, and perhaps death would
have soon come to me to put an end to my misery. There
was a time when I used to pray for death.' This, however,
was not the only sacrifice she avers she was ready to make ;
there was another of an infinitely graver nature. Her father

wished her to marry a man she abhorred. She had shrunk
in horror from the proposal, but she was ready to submit toit
now. She would humble herself to her father's will. Her
father had written these words to her, ' When you are prepared
to obey me in the one wish of my life, you can come
to me ; not until then.' Upon these words she was prepared
to act. She would go to him and say that she was
ready to obey him if he would assist her in the way she
wished. Animated by this resolve — which, if it were the
truth, would have been most noble and heroic — she took
the last train to Beddington, and arrived at Parksides late
in the night. She did not take a return ticket, not having
sufficient money to pay for it. She cannot fix the hour of
her arrival, nor indeed has she anything to say as to time.
It may have been midnight, it may have been earlier or
later — her mind is a blank upon this. The night, she says,
was dark, and the house itself was in darkness ; she saw no
one moving, inside or out. She was afraid to knock, because
her summons would have brought Mrs. Pamflett
down, and she feared that the house-keeper, who hated her,
would have driven her from the place, and prevented her

from seeing her father. So she concealed herself in the
grounds quite near to the house, her intention being to pass
the night in the open, and the first thing in the morning,
when the door was unlocked, to enter it and go straight to
her father's room, unknown to Mrs. Pamflett, and tell him
what she came for. We now take up her own words as to
what followed :

' I do not know how long I waited outside, crouching
down in concealment ; it seemed to me very, very long, and
I was so agitated that I cannot depend upon my memory.
I did my best to keep my eyes open, but they would close
in spite of me, and at last I must have fallen asleep. When
I opened my eyes it was with an impression that some one
was standing over me, and seeing no one as I looked up, I
thought that I must have been mistaken ; and yet I could
not shake off the idea that some person had been near me. I
was very frightened and very confused, and I made up my
mind not to close my eyes again, but to wait till daybreak.
I did not have to wait so long. In the distance I saw a
light, the light of a lantern, moving slowly on. I was overcome
with gratitude at the thought that it might be my

father, and that I might speak to him at once. I knew
that my father sometimes went out into the grounds at
night, but I was not aware for what purpose. I rose to my
feet, and softly followed the light till I was sure it was held
by my father. Then I went up and spoke to him. I cannot
recall what I said, or in what way he answered me. I
know that he was at first surprised that I should come to
him at so strange an hour, and that, when he got over his
surprise, he was in a furious passion. I know, although he
continually interrupted me, that I must have succeeded in
making him understand why I had presented myself to him.
I know that he threatened me and spoke most bitter words,
and that he said I had come too late, that he had no longer
a child ; that every one in the world was his enemy, and
was conspiring to ruin him, and that he would drive me
from his gates. I have a remembrance of pleading to him,
of going on my knees to him, and that he dragged me to
my feet, and threw me violently off. I fell fainting to the
ground, and remember nothing more of him. When I
recovered I was alone, and it was still dark. Heart-broken,
bewildered, and sick, and scarcely knowing what I was

doing, I dragged myself away from Parksides, and there
was no light in the sky when I left Parksides behind me.
It is useless for me to attempt to describe what followed. I
must have known the direction to London, and my idea
was to get back to my dear aunt, and at the same time to
conceal myself from the sight of every one on the road.
Whether I succeeded or not I cannot say, and it was only
by God's mercy that I reached my aunt's house. There is
something so horrible in the accusation that is brought
against me that I cannot realize it. I can only pray to God
to bring the truth to light ! '

There is in this statement an element of romance and
improbability which renders it impossible of belief, especially
when it is placed side by side with established evidence.
The prisoner refers to a letter she received from
her father, in which he says that when she is prepared to
obey him she can return to her proper home. But that
letter also contains the words : ' Your guilty desires can
only be accomplished by my death.'

We come now to the evidence of another witness, the
policeman Tom Barley, which told fatally against the prisoner;

which perhaps turned the scale against her, and
dispelled any doubts which the jury might have entertained.
This man, who receives from his superiors a character in
every way satisfactory and honourable, was a servant in
Miser Farebrother's house during the childhood of the prisoner.
His devotion to the prisoner cannot be doubted ;
his belief in her innocence is not to be shaken, and yet he
gave fatal evidence against her. We append here a resume
cf the evidence to which we allude, leading up to it by a
few questions put to other witnesses, all of them friends of
the prisoner.

Mrs. Lethbridge is examined :

' On the day the prisoner left your house secretly
for Parksides, what was the colour of her dress ? ' —
Blue.'

' Did she wear it the whole of the day ? ' — * Yes

* In the evening, when you and your family were sitting
at home, the prisoner being with you, had she this blue
dress on ? ' — ' Yes.'

*' ' Did she change it at all during the day or night ? ' —
*No.'

'You are positive she left your house wearing this blue
dress ? ' — ' I am positive.'

Miss Fanny Lethbridge, the prisoner's cousin, is examined
:

*' ' Do you remember the dress the prisoner wore on the
night she left your parents' house for Parksides ? ' — ' Yes.'

* What was its colour ? ' — ' Blue. It is her favourite
colour.'

' You have no doubt in your mind that her dress was
blue ? '— ' No.'

'Could she have changed it unknown to you ? ' — ' No;
she had only one other dress, a grey one, and that was
hanging up in our room.'

"amelia Jane, maid of all work in Mrs. Lethbridge's house,
is examined :

' You met the prisoner shortly after she left your
mistress's house on the night her father was murdered ? ' —
Yes.'

*' ' She gave you a message to deliver to your mistress ? '
' Yes ; she said she was going to Parksides to see her
father. '

"did you notice the dress she was wearing?' — 'I
saw it.'

* What dress was it ? ' — * Her favourite frock, a blue
one.'

' Is there any doubt in your mind upon the point ? ' —
None at all. She had her blue frock on.'

Tom Barley is examined :

* You were in the service of the murdered man ? ' —
For many a long year. My grandfather and grandmother
were care-takers there before Miser Farebrother took
possession.'

' Answer only the questions that are put to you. What
age was the prisoner when you entered her father's service ? '
' Miss Phoebe couldn't have been more than two. I was
there when she first came.'

* You were previously engaged, then ? ' — ' Yes ; at twopence
a week, and I never got more.'

"what inducement was there for you to remain?' —
Well, I grew up there, so to speak ; and I couldn't bear
the thought of leaving Miss Phoebe.'

' The prisoner ? ' — ' Yes.'

VOL. III. 4^

* To serve her was a pleasing duty ? ' — ' I would die for
her.'

* If it were in your power you would testify in her
favour ? ' — ' I should be sorry to say a word against her, '
' But you would tell the truth ?'—' I must.'
' Were you as much attached to your master ? ' — ' No.
If he was alive I would tell you what I thought of him.'
' But being dead you say nothing ? ' — ' It's more decent.'
* Apart from their relationship as father and child, what
kind of feeling existed between them ? ' — ' He had no feeling
for her ; he hardly took notice of her. She would have
loved him if he'd have let her; but he had other notions.'

"you left his service less than a year ago?' — 'Yes.
I'll tell you the reason of it.'

* We do not want to know the reason. Do you remember
the night of the murder of Miser Farebrother ? ' —
'Yes.*

* On that night did you go to Mrs. Lethbridge's house ? '
—eyes.'

' After or before the prisoner left it ? ' — ' After Miss
Phoebe left.'

'Were you spoken to about her having gone away ? ' —
'Yes.'

' By whom ? '— ' By Mrs. Lethbridge.'

' What did she say to you ? ' — ' That Miss Phoebe, without
asking her advice, had gone to Parksides, and would I
go after her and see that she would come to no harm.'

"was there any fear of her coming to harm in her
father's house ? ' — 'A good deal. She wasn't safe there.'

' That is your opinion ? ' — ' Yes, it's my opinion, and
the truth.'

* You went ? ' — ' Yes. I had time, without interfering
with my duty.'

' You were glad to go ? ' — ' I was glad to do anything
to serve Miss Phoebe.'

' Did you go by the train ? ' — ' I was too late for trains ;
I walked.'

' A tiring walk ? ' — ' Not for me. I shouldn't think anything
of forty mile.'

'What did you do when you arrived at Parksides? ' —

I looked about for Miss Phoebe.'

' Did you see her ? ' — ' No.'

45-2

' Did you remain there for any length of time ? ' — ' Upto
the last safe minute. I had to get back to London to
my duty by a certain time.'

"'I understand, then, that you remained until the last
safe minute ? ' — * Yes.'

' When you left Parksides, was it night or morning ? * —
'Morning. The sun was rising.'

'You could distinguish objects perfectly ?' — ' Yes.'

* Did you walk about Parksides freely ? Was there any
restraint upon your movements ? ' — ' I don't know about
restraints. It is the truth that I did not wish to be seen.'

"why?' — 'There was no love lost between me and
Miser Farebrother. He wouldn't have been pleased to seeme.'


* You knew you had no right to be there ? ' — ' I was
doing no harm, and had no intention of doing any. I
wanted to be of service to Miss Phoebe.'

' You were, however, careful in your movements ? ' —
Yes.'

' Now, you say it was sunrise when you left ? ' — ' It
was.'

' And that you could see clearly ? ' — * Yes.'

' Is your eyesight good ? ' — ' Very good. I can almost
see in the dark.'

*' * But you could not distinguish colours in the dark ? '—
I don't say I could. At all events, I wouldn't swear to
them.'

' You have stated that you did not see the prisoner.
But did you see any one you knew ? ' — ' It's hard to
answer.'

* Not at all. You must be able to state whether you
saw anything, before you left Parksides, that attracted your
attention.' — ' I am able to state that, but I answer your
questions as you put them to me.'

' And I do not complain of your answers. I am pleased
to say that you are giving your evidence in a perfectly
straightforward manner.' — 'Thank you, sir.'

* Well, then, you say you did not see any one whom
you knew ; but did you see any one at all ? ' — ' Yes, I did.
A woman.'

* How do you know it was a woman ? ' — * By her
dress.'

* You saw that ? '— ' Clearly.'

' I wish to lead up intelligibly and distinctly to this,
and I am sure you will assist me — your desire being that
justice shall be done ? ' — ' It is my desire, sir ; then everything
will be right.' ^

' You saw a woman, you say. Did you see her only
once ? ' — ' I saw her three times.*

* At what distance was she from you ? ' — ' Say thirty or
forty yards.'

* Always at about that distance ? ' — * Always at about
that.'

.' Among the trees ? ' — ' Yes.'

* Did you walk toward her ? ' — ' Yes.'

* Well ? ' — ' Then she disappeared.'
" * On every occasion ? ' — ' On every occasion.'

"ras if she were hiding from you?' — 'It looked like
it.'

"ras if discovering that you were. walking toward her,
she did not wish you to see her ? ' — ' It's fair to say
that.'

* Was her face turned toward you ? ' — * Never once.'

"then you could not recognize it?' — 'It wasn't
possible.'

'That is why you say you did not see any one whom
you knew ? ' — ' Yes, that is the reason.'

' However, you knew it was a woman by her dress ? '■ —
Yes.'

' By the form or the colour of her dress ? ' — ' More by
the colour than the form, though I am certain both ways.'

' But the colour enables you to be quite positive ? ' —
Yes.'

' Now, what was the colour of the dress worn by this
woman ? ' — ' It was blue.'

' Is there any possibility that you could have been
mistaken ? ' — ' No.'

' You swear it was blue ? ' — ' I swear it.'
' And the woman who wore this blue dress, discovering
that you were following her, seemed anxious that you should
not see her face ? ' — ' It seemed so.'

These were the salient features of the examination of
Tom Barley, corroborated, as they were, by the evidence of
witnesses favourable to the prisoner. Lurking about the

grounds of Parksides was a woman in a blue dress, who was
unmistakably anxious that he should not recognize her.
The conclusion is that she was known to him, and that she
had reasons for avoiding him.

"The prisoner, when she left her aunt's house on the
night of the murder, wore a blue dress — her favourite
colour. Even without this evidence there was sufficient to
warrant the conclusion that the prisoner was guilty of the
crime of which she stood charged ; but it was natural,
perhaps, that her youth and beauty would have won the day
with impressionable men, had it not been for this important
evidence of colour. In association with Miser Farebrother
were two women only, Mrs. Pamflett and the prisoner.
Setting a due value upon Tom Barley's evidence, the prosecution
had carefully sifted it, and the conclusion arrived at
was indisputable. Mrs. Pamflett was not a favourite in
Beddington and round about ; she had no friends or
acquaintances there or anywhere ; but she had been compelled
to make her purchases in the village, and her appearance
was familiar by force of circumstance. She had never
been known to wear a blue dress ; it was, she said, a detestable

colour, and she would not purchase even a piece of
ribbon of that hue. As the prisoner's favourite colour was
blue, so Mrs. Pamflett's was pink, and in all the housekeeper's
wardrobe — which, it may be mentioned, was thrown
open to the investigation of the prosecution — there was nota
fabric of blue.

Another thing told heavily against the prisoner. In her
statement she said that 'it was still dark when she went
away ' from Parksides. She said, ' There was no light in the
sky when I left Parksides behind me.' Tom Barley proved
that he saw her in a blue dress when the sun was rising. A
sad duty indeed devolved upon the jury, but it was a duty
which had to be fulfilled. The verdict of ' Guilty ' which
was returned was one which could not be avoided by conscientious
men, however painful it must have been. Phoebe
Farebrother is not the only beautiful and apparently gentlewoman
upon whom sentence of death has been passed."

■^'-2ii^^L.

DICK GARDEN TO THE RESCUE.

Aunt and Uncle Lethh and their children sat in their once
happy home in Camden Town gazing at each other in mute
despair. For them the tragedy of life was complete and
overwhelming, and their condition was such that they
could find no words to give expression to their horror and
grief. They were waiting for Fred Cornwall, who had
obtained permission to see Phoebe in prison. When he
entered the room his face was white and stern. He felt
the terrible blow which had fallen upon them no less
poignantly than they; but he had not lost the power to
act, nor, as with them, had hope entirely deserted him.

** I have seen her," he said, in a low tone. " She sends
loving messages to you. I expected to find her heartbroken
and prostrate, but she is imbued with a strange
strength and resignation. The worst is over, she says

she must not think of the past, but of the future. She is
sustained by a consciousness of innocence, and is inexpressibly
comforted by the thought that we know she is innocent.
She begs that you will not grieve too deeply for
her." He paused a moment or two. " That is the sense
of her message to you. She is an angel and a martyr. I
can trust myself to say nothing more of my visit to the
prison. I must not remain with you now, unless you have
something to communicate which may help me in the task
upon which I am engaged — of even yet clearing her from,
the wicked charge. Yes, Aunt Lethh, I will move heaven
and earth to establish her innocence. I will not rest, I will
not sleep — " Again he was compelled to pause; and when
he could control himself he said : " I must see Tom Barley.
Has he been here to-day ? "

"Yes," replied Aunt Lethh; "but I fear it will be long
before he comes here again. There was a dreadful scene
between him and 'Amelia Jane. The girl stormed at him
for giving his evidence about seeing a woman in a blue
dress at Parksides on that fatal night. She said if it had
not been for him our poor Phoebe would have been set

free ; and when he asked what else he could do but answer
the questions they put to him, she answered that he ought
to have cut his tongue out first."

'Amelia Jane was right," said Fanny.

I don't see that he could have acted differently," said
Fred, thoughtfully. " Without his evidence the case
against my suffering angel would have been incomplete ;
but there can be no question that he spoke the truth. He
did see a woman m a blue dress at Parksides ; but it was
not Phoebe. The evidence relating to the dresses worn by
Mrs. Pamflett is not to be shaken, and it could not have
been that she wore on that night a blue dress in order to
throw suspicion upon our innocent darling."
" She could have worn such a dress," said Uncle Lethh,
'rand afterward destroyed it."

*' That is possible enough ; but she could have had no
hope, supposing her to be the guilty wretch — "

Or her son," interposed Fanny.

She could have had no hope of entangling our Phoebe
by so doing. She knew that Phoebe was living here, and
the sudden visit our poor girl paid to her father could not

by any possibility have become known to her beforehand.
If the woman Tom Barley saw was neither Phoebe nor Mrs.
Pamflett, who is she ? There are now two mysterious persons
in this horrible affair — the man who was in the habit
of visiting Miser Farebrother late at night and this woman
whom Tom Barley saw, and who was conspicuously anxious
that he should not see her face. These matters must be
followed up ; we can agitate, we can get time. I hear on
all sides nothing but sympathy expressed for our dear
Phoebe, and the case against her is so entirely circumstantial
that I will not, I cannot, give up hope. A friend
of mine who has chambers next to mine is so much interested
in the case that he has offered to help me all he
can. He is clearer-headed than I am just now, and
cleverer, and higher up the ladder. He is convinced that
Phoebe is innocent, and that there is a mystery in the affair
which, unravelled, would set her free."

God bless him ! " sobbed Fanny. " What is the name
of this good friend, that I may remember it in my prayers."

Dick Garden. We are going to work together. He is
waiting for me now in my rooms. He is a good fellow —

the best of friends ; I rely greatly upon him. Calm as I
appear, I am burning with wrath and indignation, and I
am scarcely to be depended upon for a clear judicial
reasoning upon anything we may happily discover. I
must go at once. Then you cannot tell me where I can
find Tom Barley ? "

I will find him for you," said Robert, starting up.

Do ; and send him on to my place immediately. Goodby
— good-by. If you hear anything, don't fail to let me
know."

He drove rapidly to his rooms, where he found his friend
Richard Garden awaiting him. This friend was of about the
same age as himself ; an ambitious, astute young fellow, determined
to get along in the world, and almost certain to
succeed, for the reason that he had brains and indomitable
courage and industry.

He looked up from the paper upon which he was writing
when Fred entered. Upon a smaller table in the room some
food was spread : a plate of ham and beef, a cold pie, and
bread ; also a jug of ale.

"You have had nothing to eat?" said Garden. Fred

shook his head impatiently. " Of course you haven't ;
and you think that we can go into an affair Hke this with
empty stomachs. No, old fellow ; we must assist ourselves
like sensible men. A craving stomach is a bad
mental foundation. Come, tuck away; force something
down. That's right. Just taste this cold pie — good, isn't
it ? A pint of ale between us — here's your half, no more
and no less. You feel better, don't you ? Now we are fit
to set to work. You saw her ? "

Yes."

*•' Did you get her to talk calmly ? "

She was calmer than you are, Dick. She has masse up
her mind to die."

Not for many a long year yet. Here's a letter I've
written to the papers, signed ' A Lawyer,' showing up the
weak points in the case, and appealing for sympathy and a
surer kind of justice. Just finished the fourth copy as you
came in. My lad is downstairs ; he will take the letters to
the newspaper offices, and tomorrow they will be all over
the country. Don't lose heart, Fred ; there is some infernal
mystery at the bottom of this affair, and I mean to

get at it. You asked the poor girl about the dresses Mrs.
Pamflett was in the habit of wearing ? "

Yes ; and she said she never saw the woman in a blue
dress."

Is she still positive about the brooch ? "

"She has not the slightest doubt. When her father
turned her from his house she left the brooch behind her."

Then it must have been placed in the grounds by some
person — deliberately placed there."

Unless it was dropped by accident."

If so, it must have been a female who dropped it.
Either way, the person who dropped or placed it where
it was found can be no other than Mrs. Pamflett.
Let us suppose that. If dropped by accident, it proves
that she must have been near the spot where the miser
was murdered ; if placed there by her, it must have been
placed there for a motive. Miss Farebrother adheres to
the truth of her story as to what occurred on the night of
her visit to Parksides ? "

Yes."
" She did not see Mrs. Pamflett ? "

No."

'' But Mrs. Pamflett may have seen her. Let us assume
that she or her son committed the deed. She sees Miss
Farebrother in the grounds, and overhears, perhaps, what
passes between the poor young lady and her father. She
witnesses Miss Farebrother's departure from Parksides.
After that the murder is committed. Then, seeing Miss
Farebrother's veil on the ground — in Miss Farebrother's
condition there are a thousand reasonable hypotheses to
account for its having become detached from her hat — the
idea presents itself to Mrs. Pamflett to strengthen the case
against Miss Farebrother by placing the brooch also near
the dead body."

You do not forget the female in a blue dress that Tom
Barley saw in the grounds ? "

I do not ; and I cannot account for it. Did you ask
Miss Farebrother anything about the man who, according
to Mrs. Pamflett, had been in the habit for years of visiting
Miser Farebrother secretly at night ? "

To her knowledge, no such man ever presented himself.

and no such visits ever took place."

VOL. Iir. 46

She has no remembrance of anything of the kind
occurring ? "

** Not the slightest."

It is inexplicable. There's some one at the door.
Come in ! "

It was Robert Lethbridge, who came to say that Tom
Barley was on duty, and would not be able to visit Fred
Cornwall before the morning ; but if they wished to speak
to him at once they would find him on his beat.

No," said Garden ; "we will not go to him. I want
him when his time is his own, so that we can talk quietly
and uninterruptedly. Go and tell him to come and see us
at nine o'clock in the morning."

He can be here earlier, Dick," said Fred Cornwall.

Nine o'clock is early enough. It will give us time to
sleep and rest. I am physician as well as lawyer in this
case, it seems."

Robert Lethbridge departed with the message, and he
was barely gone before two other visitors presented themselves.
These were Kiss, the comedian, and Mr. Linton,
the dramatic author. They looked very grave as they

entered. Fred Cornwall introduced them to Richard
Garden, who cast a shrewd glance at them, and then said,
quietly :

You have something to tell us ? "

You can speak freely," said Fred. " Mr. Garden and
I are working together in this terrible matter."

A terrible matter indeed, Mr. Cornwall," said Kiss, with
deep feeling in his voice, "and Mr. Linton and I are
responsible for it." The young lawyers looked at their
visitors in surprise at this statement. Kiss continued : " It
is the melancholy truth that if it had not been for us an
innocent young girl, an angel of sweetness and purity, would
not be lying at death's door as we stand here. Unless we
can prove her innocence it will haunt us to our dying
day."

"Why do you accuse yourselves ? " asked Garden.

Was it not through our folly that Mr. Lethbridge was

plunged into difficulties ? Believing that my friend Linton

had written a play which would make all our fortunes, did

we not go to Mr. Lethbridge and by our plausible statements

induce him to sign a bill for three hundred pounds which

46-2

that infamous scoundrel, Jeremiah Pamflett, discounted ?
You will remember the play I refer to, Mr. Garden ; it was
A Heart of Gold, which, because of an extraordinary first-night
speech made by Mr. Linton, blazed up for a fortnight
or so, and then spluttered out like a tallow candle with a
damp wick. It was in the hope of helping her uncle out of
his difficulties — for which we, and we alone, were responsible
that Miss Farebrother paid a visit to her father on the
night he was murdered. Had she not gone he would have
been murdered all the same — there is no doubt in our minds
as to that — and, safe and happy at home with her aunt and
uncle, by no possibility could suspicion have been cast upon
her. But she did go, because none of us were able to pay
the money which Mr. Lethbridge borrowed for us. Do you
see now how it is that we are responsible for what has
occurred ? It is Linton and I who ought to have been
placed in the dock instead of that sweet, unfortunate young
lady. Since the lying accusation was brought against her,
we have not been able to sleep. If exhausted nature compels
us to go off in a doze, we start up in affright and
horror. There will never again be rest for either of us until

Miss Farebrother is set at liberty and her honourable name
restored to her."

Your feelings do you credit," said Garden ; " but it is
not alone to say what you have said that you have come
here to-night ? "

No ; but it leads up to what may be of importance.
God knows whether it will or not, but drowning men catch
at a straw. I am glad you are working with Mr. Cornwall,
sir ; it is easy to see how he is suffering, and you must be a
comfort to him — if," he added, feelingly, " anybody can
comfort him at such a time as this. Well, sir, Linton and
I have also been putting our heads together, and we decided
to set a watch."

Upon whom ? "

"Upon that image of wickedness, Jeremiah Pamflett,
and his equally wicked mother. Sir, that tale of hers as to
what took place between her and Miss Farebrother on the
night of the murder is false as — Never mind ; it will not
do to be profane."

That is to say, you believe it to be false ? You have
no direct evidence to the contrary ? "

No, sir ; unfortunately we have not. It is our belief,
as you say, but none the less incontrovertible. It is not
because we have dramatic ideas that we determined to
watch this precious pair. It seemed to us to offer a chance
of discovering something ; therefore we set practically to
work, Linton watching the son, I watching the mother.
Until this evening we saw nothing that could be turned
against them. You are probably aware that Mrs. Pamflett
left Parksides shortly after the murder ? "

She had to leave," remarked Fred ; " as Miss Fare-brother's
legal representative, I saw to that before the trial
took place."

Quite proper. And her son had to leave the London
office and seek lodgings elsewhere ? "

Yes ; that was also effected through me."

Being thrown upon their own resources, they took two
rooms in Knightsbridge. We tracked them there. Sometimes
they went out together, sometimes alone. When they
were together they scarcely spoke to each other, and it
seemed to us as if this silence had been determined upon
between them ; what they said might have been overheard,

and they might have said something injudicious. It almost
appeared as if nothing was to come of our watch.
There was a monotony in it which weighed upon us, and
we were almost in despair. We tried to get a room in the
house they lodged in, but there was none to let. The day
before yesterday, however, something occurred to rouse us.
We saw a woman watching the house they lived in. She
knocked at the street door, and received an answer to her
questions from the landlady. Then she retired, and from
a short distance kept watch upon the house — you may
imagine how excited this made us — until Jeremiah Pamflett
came out alone. He walked along apparently with no suspicion
in his mind that he was being followed by the woman,
and certainly with no suspicion that Linton and I were
walking behind them both. You may be certain that we
were very careful. It is excusable in me as an actor, and
in Linton as a dramatic author, that we should adopt some
slight disguise, altered from day to day under my direction,
to lessen the chances of our being detected in case Jeremiah
Pamflett should happen to see us. Well, sir, as the four of
us were walking along in Indian file, what did the woman

suddenly do but go up to Jeremiah and accost him ! And
what did he do but start violently, turn round to look at
the woman, and then, without saying one word to her,
walk rapidly away with the conspicuous intention of getting
rid of her. From a rapid walk he got into a run, and the
woman and we lost sight of him. So far as that incident
was concerned, there was an end of it. We lost sight, too,
of the woman ; but not before we saw sufficient of her to
be able to recognize her if we should see her again. Yesterday
we were again in view of the house in which these
Pamfletts lodged, and there again was the same woman
watching, as we judged, for her friend Jeremiah. But he
did not make his appearance, and after remaining in the
neighbourhood for nearly an hour, we saw the landlady put
a card in her front window, 'Rooms to let.' Across the
road went the woman ; she knocked at the door, made
some inquiries of the landlady, and came away with a spiteful,
disappointed expression on her face. I told Linton to
follow her, and find out where she lived. Meanwhile I
myself went across to the house, and inquired about the
rooms to let. It was as I suspected : the Pamfletts had

left — 'quite sudden,' the landlady said. Putting this and
that together, I came to the conclusion that they had left
their lodgings, and most probably the neighbourhood, because
of the discovery by the woman of their whereabouts.
This looked so much like fright on the part of Jeremiah
Pamflett that it stirred me up and made me hopeful. But
where had he and his mother flown to ? Sir, this very
evening chance has befriended us, and we are again on the
track. Give me, if you please, your closest attention ; I
am approaching something rather startling."

"Stop a moment," said Garden, rising and going to the
side-board, from which he took a bottle of apollinaris and a
bottle of brandy, " you seem rather faint."

To tell you the truth," said Kiss, " I have scarcely tasted
food to-day, I have been that anxious and distressed."

We are all engaged in the same good cause," said Garden,
smiling, " and every one, with the exception of myself,
seems bent upon starving himself. Take a slice of this
pie \ Mr. Linton will join you. You don't object to brandy
and apollinaris ? "

Not at all," said Kiss, speaking with his mouth full ;

*' split it between Linton and me. Mr. Garden, you are a
wise gentleman and a capable chief. If we are happily
successful in the end we have in view — and I pray God we
shall be ! — we shall have you to thank for it. Do you not
think with me, Mr. Cornwall ? "

Fred pressed Garden's hand with emotion, and Garden,
shrewd, cool, self-possessed, and with all his wits about him,
returned the pressure, and gave Fred a look of encouragement.
It was like wine to Fred. His hopes grew stronger.
Perhaps, after all, his dear, suffering girl would, by the
mercy of God, be rescued from her dread peril, and be
spared to brighten his life and the lives of those who held
her dear. His eyes grew dim, and he pressed his hand
across them.

Do not overrate my services," said Garden, in his clear
strong voice. " I am only a moderately skilful engineer,
and my hardest task, it appears to me, is to keep the
machinery of which I have direction in fair workable order.
Now, then, Mr. Kiss, you look double the man you were.
We are all attention."

THE DIAMOND BRACELET AGAIN.

Mr. Linton," continued Kiss, " followed the woman who
was so anxious to enter into relations — evidently not new
ones — with that abominable scoundrel Jeremiah Pamflett,
and who had exhibited such vexation at his sudden
disappearance ; he learnt her address, but could not discover
her name. Inquiring of people who lived in the same house,
he was informed by some that they knew nothing whatever
of her, and was told by others to mind his own business.
But, as I said, chance befriended us ; not two hours ago we
saw the woman and Jeremiah together. We had failed in
tracking him down ; she had succeeded. And of all the
corners in this Babylon where should Jeremiah have taken
up his new lodgings but in South Lambeth, three doors from
the house in which Linton lives ! That is not the only
piece of luck which chance has thrown in our way. The

landlady of the house in which he rents rooms is a friend of
Mrs. Linton. This good lady, who is as deeply concerned
in the terrible course of events as we are, is now in that
house — on the watch. Jeremiah Pamflett and his mother
will not escape us again so easily. So much for the side
issue — what I may call the under-plot. Now for the
important discovery. When we saw Jeremiah and the
woman together — he looking very much disturbed and she
very determined and vicious — I desired Linton to keep in
the background. Without flattery, I may say I am a better
actor than he is, and, besides, I was more completely
disguised. My object was to discover what these two were
talking about. So I followed them close enough to hear
scraps of their conversation, but not close enough to draw
suspicious observation upon myself. The first thing I heard
that caused me surprise was a name — Captain Ablewhite.
It was the woman who gave utterance to it, and accompanying
her mention of the name were some words by no means
complimentary to its owner. ' He's a damned scoundrel,'
said the woman to Jeremiah, as I casually passed them,
and you're another ! ' Now a high-minded, honest man

would have fired up at this. Jeremiah Pamflett did not ;
he was as meek as a turnip. They passed on out of
hearing ; but I did not lose sight of them. ' Captain Able-white
! ' thought I, ' Captain Ablewhite ! How is it that the
name seems so familiar to me ? ' Does it sound familiar to
you, sir ? "

In a vague way, yes," replied Garden ; " but I cannot
immediately place it. I am not personally acquainted with
any one of that name."

Nor I, sir ; but that did not prevent it bothering me.
I took another favourable opportunity of getting close to the
woman and Jeremiah. She was talking away at a rapid
rate, he saying hardly a word ; but I happened to catch a
wicked look in his eyes once as he looked down on her.
It was more than wicked, it was devilish ; and I could not
help thinking that it was a good job they were not walking
in a dark place with no people about. If ever murder was
expressed in a man's face, it was expressed in the face of
Jeremiah Pamflett as he cast that look at his companion.
Half the money you and Ablewhite got for the diamond
bracelet ' — don't miss a word of this, sir ; I am repeating

what the woman said to Jeremiah — * was to come to my
share, and a few sovereigns is all I have managed to screw
out of him. The false villain has thrown me over for
another woman, and has given me the slip ; but I'll take
care you don't serve me the same. I have found out your
new quarters — you live at No. 12, Surrey Street.' That, sir,
is three doors from Linton's lodgings — he lives at No. 15.
You will understand that it would have been the height of
imprudence for me to have remained near this precious pair
for more than a few moments at a time, but what I had
already heard opened my eyes. It came upon me like a
flash of lightning. Captain Ablewhite and a diamond
bracelet ! Why, that story was in all the papers a little
while ago, and created a regular stir. Linton is making use
of it now in a new drama he is writing. Real life, sir ; facts
with which the public is familiar — that's the sort of thing
for the stage. You remember the story, of course ? "

I remember it well," said Garden, cool and collected
as ever. " Go on, Mr. Kiss ; something may come of
this."

Something will come of it, sir, ' said Kiss, his voice

growing more excited. " You haven't got the essence of
what I heard; I shall astonish you presently. You remember
what a laugh there was when Mr. Quinlan's statement
was published in the papers. Mr. Quinlan was the
husband of the lady from whom the diamond bracelet had
been stolen, and the information he gave to the police and
the reporters was that the bracelet that had been stolen was
one he had had made in imitation of the genuine article,
and that the stones the thieves had got hold of were false.
The Biters Bit ' — that was the heading in the newspapers."


I remember it all perfectly."

Listen now to what I learnt from the stray bits of conversation
I picked up as I followed Jeremiah and the woman.
She was Mrs. Quinlan's maid ; the man waiting outside the
Langham Hotel was Jeremiah Pamflett. She gave him the
bracelet. Afterward he met Captain Ablewhite, but what
passed between them, of course, cannot be known. The
woman knows, however, that the bracelet was taken to
Miser Farebrother, and that it was he who advanced money
on it, Jeremiah being the go-between. I did not hear all

this as I am relating it, but I put it together out of what I
managed to pick up, and I will stake my life that it is near
enough to the truth for us or any one to work upon. That,
however, does not bring down the curtain ; you have yet to
hear the climax. Linton could not have worked it up more
dramatically. The last words that reached my ears were
these : * You fool ! ' said the woman to Jeremiah. ' The
bracelet you received from me was the genuine one. The
stones were real, and are worth forty thousand pounds, and
I mean to have my share of the plunder.' The moment
she said this, Jeremiah, in a kind of frenzy, clapped his
hand on her mouth and dragged her away. A cab was
passing, and he hailed it, and hustled the woman in, giving
some directions to the driver. The next moment they were
gone. If there had been another cab in view I would have
followed them, but unfortunately there wasn't one in the
street. The first thing I did after that was to run with
Linton to his lodgings, and the first thing Mrs. Linton said
to us was that Mrs. Pamflett and her son had taken the two
rooms that had been to let at No. 12. ' Are you acquainted
with the landlady ? ' I asked, and Mrs. Linton answered

that she and the landlady of No. 12 were friends. * Go and
bring her here at once,' I said ; and no sooner said than
done. It took but a few minutes to get the landlady on our
side ; it was Mrs. Linton who did that. It would not have
been safe for me or Linton to go to No. 12 to watch;
Jeremiah Pamflett knows us, and at close quarters might see
through any disguise we might assume ; but neither he nor
Mrs. Pamflett has ever seen Mrs. Linton, so we appointed
her sentinel. The next best thing we thought we could do
was to come straight here and make Mr. Cornwall acquainted
with our discovery. The question is, what is to
be done ? We might go to the police — "

Garden held up his hand, and Kiss did not finish the
sentence.

That would be the worst thing we could do," he said

What you have discovered must at present be mentioned

to no other person but ourselves. The task upon which weare

engaged is that of saving an innocent young lady's life ;

all else is of small importance. How was the woman

dressed?"

Very quietly, in black."

VOL. III. 47

"Does she resemble Miss Farebrother in build?"

Not at all. She is shorter and stouter."

Did you hear anything definite as to the length of time
she has been in London ? "

"Nothing; but judging in a general way, I should say
she has only recently returned from foreign parts with the
idea of obtaining from Jeremiah Pamflett a share of the
proceeds of the robbery."

A share of the money he received from Miser Fare-brother
for the bracelet that was stolen? Yes, that is a
natural conclusion." The young lawyer rose from his seat
and went to a corner of the room where a great pile of
newspapers lay. " Mr. Cornwall keeps a file of the Times
for reference; it will help us." He searched through the
papers, and soon found the one he wanted. He smiled
quietly as he looked down the columns. " It is as I suspected.
The account of the robbery of the diamond
bracelet was first published on the day preceding that upon
which Miser Farebrother was murdered." They all started
at this. And the young lawyer proceeded : " Let us build
up a theory. Jeremiah Pamflett takes a diamond bracelet

of great value to his master, and upon the strength of his
representations Miser Farebrother advances a sum of money
upon it — believing the stones to be genuine. On the day
before his death a newspaper falls into his hands, and he
learns from it that he has been tricked — that the bracelet
has been stolen, and that the diamonds are false. We know
that the one passion of his life is money — it is his idol, his
god. We have it in evidence that on that day, in the afternoon,
doubtless, after he made this discovery, he sent a
telegram to Jeremiah Pamfiett in London, requesting his
manager's attendance at Parksides. Miser Farebrother was
not in the habit of wasting money upon telegrams; hence
his sending of this message was prompted by some particular
motive — say the demand from Jeremiah Pamfiett for the
restitution of the money of which he has been defrauded.
Before this scoundrel leaves London for Parksides he also
has learnt that a trick has been played upon him by Captain
Ablewhite and the woman who has tracked him down. At
Parksides a stormy scene takes place between the miser and
his scoundrel manager. The miser threatens criminal proceedings,
but perhaps gives the scoundrel time to refund the

47—2

money he has advanced. They part with feelings of bitter
rage towards each other. What course is now open to
Jeremiah Pamflett ? Has he the money to refund ? Unlikely.
Can he borrow it ? Quite as unlikely. I bear in
mind what I gathered from you, Fred, respecting the bill
for three hundred pounds which Mr. Lethbridge accepted.
You arranged for the payment of that bill with a betting
man, who had received it from Jeremiah Pamflett. Natural
inference : that the scoundrel Jeremiah had been backing
horses, and losing. If necessary, we will look that betting
man up. Not seeing his way to refund the money which
has been advanced on the bracelet, nothing but exposure
and disgrace lies before Jeremiah Pamflett. How to avoid
impending ruin ? How to avoid a felon's fate ? Miser
Farebrother lives practically alone in the house at Parksides,
waited upon by the house-keeper, Jeremiah's mother. These
two are bound to each other by mutual interests. Who so
likely to profit by Miser Farebrother's death as Jeremiah
Pamflett ? Unhappily, on that night Miss Farebrother
goes down to Parksides on her heavenly mission of love.
But, before she makes her appearance there, the murder of

her father is resolved upon. There is no independent
evidence that Jeremiah returned to London and reached
his office by eleven o'clock. We have only his word for it.
Had Miss Farebrother not visited Parksides on that night,
suspicion would have fallen upon the Pamfletts, and the
hour of the scoundrel's return to London would have been
a vital point. I put aside the account given by Mrs. Pam-fleet
of the visit of a strange man to Miser Farebrother. It
may or may not be true. Equally it may or may not be a
concocted story, invented beforehand for safety. Here
comes in Tom Barley's evidence as to his seeing in the grounds
a female in a blue dress. The honest fellow spoke' the
truth ; he saw what he was compelled to swear to. Miss
Farebrother wore such a dress. But why should she avoid
him ? He was her tried and faithful friend. Convinced
as we are of her innocence, there is no reason for her
avoidance. Here lies the mystery ; if we can solve it Miss

Farebrother is safe. And solve it we will My God ! "

They had listened to him in profound admiration. Entranced
by his masterly analysis, it seemed to Fred as if
they had only to go to the prison in which Phoebe was

immured and demand her release. But when he uttered
the words " My God ! " and started to his feet and paced
the room in a state of excitement, which, for a few moments
was uncontrollable, their feelings of admiration changed to
astonishment, and they gazed at him in amazement.
What is it, Dick ? " cried Fred. " What is it ? "
He seized Garden's hands, and would have held him
still; but Garden threw him off, and continued to pace the
room.

Don't speak to me for a moment ! " he cried. " What
I have suddenly thought of is so wild that I cannot reveal
it. But if it is a true inspiration, it means salvation ! Ask
me nothing, for I shall not answer you. It is for you to
answer me. It has occurred to me that Mrs. Pamflett
and Mrs. Lethbridge are about the same height and
figure."

'* Good God ! " cried Fred. " What do you mean ? "
"Answer my question, Fred," said Garden, "as you
value Miss Farebrother's life. The women — one a devil,
the other an angel — are about the same height and
figure ? *'

Yes, they are."

"And from a short distance — say thirty or forty yards —
might possibly be mistaken for each other ? "

Yes, it is possible."

"Thank you." He had succeeded in mastering his
agitation, and now to all appearance was calm. " Meanwhile,"
he said, sitting at the table and beginning to write,
what has become of the diamond bracelet ? "

The question was uttered in a musing tone, as though he
were asking it of himself. He continued to write for four
or five minutes, and having completed his task, he read
what he had written, folded the paper and put it* in his
pocket. Then he turned to Kiss and Mr. Linton.

You have nothing more to say ? "

"Nothing."

"You delight in dramatic surprises?" he said, addressing
Linton, with a radiant look.

If they are new to the stage," replied the bewildered
dramatic author, " they are invaluable."

I may supply you with one. It is just on the cards."
He now addressed Kiss as well as Mr. Linton. "Our

interview is at an end. What I wish you to do is to so
arrange matters that we can at any moment lay hands upon
Mrs. Pamflett, her son, and the woman who is implicated in
the theft of the diamond bracelet. Do you think you can
manage it ? "

*' I will answer for that."

"When you came here to-night," he said, earnestly, " you
reproached yourself for being the cause of an innocent girl
being sentenced to death for a murder she did not commit.
You went back, as it were, to first causes. It is likely —
almost certain, indeed, so much depends upon chance —
that if you had not come, the inspiration which may mean
salvation would not have descended upon me. To you,
therefore, if all ends as I fervently pray it may, will belong
the credit of directing justice aright. Humanly administered,
it is sometimes fallible."

Mr. Garden," said Kiss, in a voice no less earnest than
that of the young lawyer, " I have not the slightest idea of
your meaning, but you have won my esteem, and I honour
you with all my heart and soul."

"I thank you," said the young lawyer, with dignity and

courtesy ; " what you kindly accord to me is worth the
winning. Good-night."

When Kiss and Mr. Linton were gone, Garden said to
Fred : " I am deeply, truly in earnest. For a little while
leave the direction of this affair entirely in my hands. Give
me your promise."

I give it, Dick, old fellow, cheerfully."

I am going now to the office of a newspaper, the editor
of which I am acquainted with. I shall take a cab there
and back. Unless some urgent necessity arises, do not
leave the rooms till I return."

The next morning, in the columns of one daily
London newspaper, the following interesting item found a
place :

Our readers will remember the incident of the abstraction
of a wonderful diamond bracelet from the jewel-case of
a lady of fabulous wealth. This bracelet was valued at
sixty thousand pounds. A singular and somewhat humorous
turn was given to this robbery by the wealthy husband
of the owner, who, when public attention was directed to

the matter, stated that the ornament stolen was one he had
had made in exact imitation of the original, and that the
stones of which the thieves had obtained possession were
false. Information has reached us that this was not the
case, and that the missing bracelet is the genuine one. If
this be true, the daring robbers made a rare haul, of which,
as nothing whatever has been heard of them, they have by
this time reaped the advantage. The task of disposing of
these diamonds singly in the markets of the world could
not have been very difficult, their identification being
almost impossible. In the interests of justice it is to be
regretted that the truth was not made public in the first
instance ; supposing the thieves to have been moderately
prudent, it is now too late to repair the error."

This paragraph was copied in subsequent editions of
hundreds of London and provincial newspapers.

^

"-«)

RICHARD GARDEN MAKES THE ACQUAINTANCE OF FANNY

LETHBRIDGE.

Punctually at nine o'clock in the morning Tom Barley
made his appearance in Fred Cornwall's rooms. Garden,
having assumed the command of what nearly every one but
himself would have considered a forlorn hope, of course
was present ; he was fresh and bright, but Fred's fate was
haggard and anxious. In this respect Tom Barley was no
better off; the poor fellow was suffering a martyrdom. The
reproaches hurled against him by 'Meta Jane had caused
him to look upon himself as a monster of wickedness, and
to believe that it was his evidence alone that had brought
his beloved young mistress into deadly peril. When Fred
Cornwall offered him his hand he shrank back a little, and
stood before the young lawyers in an attitude of sad
humility, with his arms drooping by his side.

Why will you not give me your hand, Tom ? " asked
Fred.

*' It's more than I dare do, sir," replied Tom. " I ought
to have mine cut off, and my tongue cut out as well, for
saying what I did in court, and for bringing Miss Phoebe to
her death. If I'd had a notion of the consequences of my
evidence, not a word would they have got out of me, whatever
the consequence. 'Amelia Jane is right ; I don't deserve
to live. It come over me last night that I might have save 1
Miss Phoebe if, instead of saying what I did say, I had said
something else."

What ? " inquired Garden, in a kind tone.

"Confessed to killing Miser Farebrother myself. I was
there, and might have done it, and would if I'd seen him,
as sure as there's a God above us, if I'd had a notion of
what things were coming to ! Yes ; if I'd said as much
they'd have been bound to believe me, and Miss Phoebe
would have been set free. You sec, sir, there was every
reason for my killing him ; he treated me like a dog for
years, and I hated him worse than poison. Are you a
lawyer, sir ? "

Yes'* replied Garden ; " and I am assisting Mr. Cornwall
in this matter that we all have so much at heart. I do
not at all despair of proving Miss Farebrother's innocence
even yet."

"There's only one way of doing that, sir, if it can be done
legally. I'd like to ask you a question, if you wouldn't
mind answering it."

"Go on, Tom."

Would it be too late for me to go to the police-station
now, and give myself up for the murder ? If they'd only
believe me I should be a happy man again. Then Miss
Phoebe would be saved, and everything 'd be right."

It is too late for that, Tom. Besides, it would be
depriving us of the chance of bringing the crime home to
the guilty parties and making them suffer for it."

Ah ! if we could do that, sir, it would be the happiest
day's work that ever was done in this cruel world ! I'd be
content to die the day after."

Well, I am not at all sure that we shall not manage it,"

said Garden, "and perhaps, Tom, it all depends upon
you."

Upon me, sir ! " cried Tom ; and Fred also turned to
Garden in surprise.

** Perhaps upon you. We shall soon know if the tack I
am on will bring us safe into port."

"Your inspiration, Dick?" asked Fred, anxiously.

My inspiration, Fred," said Garden, gravely. " If the
tack is a wrong one, we'll try another. Now, Tom, you have
nothing to reproach yourself with. You could do no less
than speak the truth."

'* I could, sir ; I could have held my tongue."

There is no possibility of your being mistaken in any
part of the evidence you gave ? "

*' Unluckily no, sir. I say so to you because you're Miss
Phoebe's friend ; but if I had the opportunity now I'd swear
the other way."

*' Don't speak like that, Tom. What we want is to save
Miss Farebrother honestly and honourably : that is our first
great object. The next is to bring the murderers to justice.
You were not in court during the whole of the trial."

No, sir. I was told when to go to give my evidence,
and then I had to go back to my duty."

You were not aware, before you answered the questions
as to the woman you saw in the grounds at Parksides and
the dress she wore, that other witnesses were examined
with respect to the colour of the dress Miss Farebrother
had on when she left her aunt's house ? "

** No, sir, I knew nothing of it ; and I wondered what
they were driving at."

You swore to the colour — blue ? "

Yes, sir," replied poor Tom, hanging his head.

You would swear to it again ? "

Tom looked round helplessly.

*' You would swear to it again ? " repeated Garden.

No, I wouldn't," said Tom savagely.

You would, Tom, because it is the truth ; and if I amon
the right tack, only the truth will serve us. Now,
although you were not in court during the whole of the
trial, you read the report of it in the papers ? "

*' I did, sir."

Clear your mind, Tom, and bend it on what I am about
to ask you. In reading the report of the trial, did anything
particular strike you ? "

It was full of lies, sir."

I am sure of that. But anything very special " — and
here Garden's voice trembled slightly, as though he were
approaching a crucial test — " say as to the colour of
dresses ? Think, Tom."

No occasion to think, sir. What they said about Mrs.

Pamflett's dresses was a pack of lies from beginning to end."
*' How is that, Tom ? " asked Garden, rising and moving

a step nearer to Tom Barley.

Why, sir, wasn't it said that Mrs. Pamflett hated blue
dresses, and never wore one."

"They did, Tom."

"Damned lies, sir ! Why didn't they ask me about that ?
I ought to know, living at Parksides the years I did. I've
seen her hundreds and hundreds of times in a blue dress."

Garden caught Fred's hand. " You are ready to swear
that ? "

Ready, sir ? Yes ; and it's the truth— by God ! "

A look of triumph flashed into Garden's eyes, and his
face was radiant. " I'm on the right tack, Fred," he cried ;
Miss Farebrother is saved 1 " . •

On the evening of that day Richard Garden and Fred
Cornwall met Kiss by appointment. The kind-hearted
actor had news of vital importance to give them. Mrs.
Pamflett and Jeremiah were still at No. 12 Surrey Street,
and had not stirred out the whole of the day.

Adjoining the room they eat and drink in," said Kiss,
is a little box-room, too small to let to any lodger, but
large enough for lumber, and that's the use it's put to by
the landlady. Formerly it was part of the room the two
fiends have taken, but some time ago it was partitioned off
for boxes and that kind of thing. Consequently the wall
that separates it from the larger room is made of wood
instead of brick. It is a cupboard, nothing more, and anybody
concealed there can hear what is going on in the
adjoining apartment. Sir, Mrs. Linton, provided with sandwiches
and cold tea, has been concealed in that cupboard
nearly the whole of the day unknown to the Pamfletts. The
woman who stole the diamond bracelet has been with them,
and she heard all that passed. That strange paragraph
which is in all the evening papers about the bracelet that

was stolen being the genuine one, is true. Mrs. Linton
VOL. III. 48

heard the woman swear to it. She wanted to know whether
Jeremiah Pamflett had possession of the bracelet. At first
he denied that he had, but the woman said he was telling a
lie, and she did not intend to be done. They almost got
to high words, but the Pamfletts spoke in a low voice and
calmed the woman down ; and upon her swearing that if
they did not tell her the truth she would go straight to the
police-station and confess the robbery and have them
arrested, they confessed that they had got the bracelet,
but had deposited it elsewhere for safety. * That being
so,' said the woman, * you must have stolen it from Miser
Farebrother, and the girl who has been found guilty of his
murder is innocent. It w^.'s, you who murdered him ! You
are in my power now, and if you don't pay me well to hold
my tongue I'll have the pair of you hanged ! ' For a little
while after that Mrs. Linton heard nothing more — only a
murmur of voices; but before she went away she heard the
woman say, ' To-morrow night, then, at ten o'clock ; and
mind you come with the bracelet and the money ready. If
you don't, your life is not worth an hour's purchase.' Ik :
That was all ; when the woman was gone, Mrs. Pamflett

Quite enough," said Garden, *' and you have rendered
us an inestimable service. What you have told us would
almost justify our taking immediate action against the
monsters ; but there is something else of great importance
to do within the next few hours. We will take them red-handed
tomorrow night, the two murderers and the thief
who in the first instance stole the bracelet. Then the case
will be complete, and there will be no escape for them.
Now go back and keep watch upon their movements. They
must not be allowed to go anywhere without being followed.
If you have the slightest reason to fear that they
will give you the slip, lay hands upon them, collect a crowd,
and give them in charge."

*' Upon what charge ? " asked Kiss.

Upon the charge of stealing the bracelet. If that will

not do, say that new evidence has come to light respecting

the murder of Miser Farebrother, which proves them to be

implicated in it. Give the police my card, and say I will

attend at the police station at ten o'clock tomorrow

48—2

morning to prove my case. Meanwhile, you will, of course,
let me know that you have taken action. But the necessity
will not arise : the Pamfletts will not attempt to escape
from the woman for the next twenty-four hours ; they are
quite aware that sudden fittings from place to place would
be likely to draw attention upon them, and their chief
desire is to avoid observation and be left to themselves, in
order that in a little while they may disappear quietly from
the country, taking with them the bracelet and the money
they must have stolen from Miser Farebrother. If I were
not thoroughly convinced of this I should set aside a most
important affair in connection with the evidence upon the
murder, and have the Pamfletts arrested immediately. My
object is to make the case against them so complete that
they shall have no loop-hole of escape. It will hasten the
hour of Miss Farebrother's release, instead of retarding it. "

You are a good general, Mr. Garden," said Kiss ; " you
put heart into your soldiers. Your instructions shall be
followed to the letter."

Half an hour afterward they were in Aunt Lethh's house,
and were shown into the room in which that good woman

and Fanny were sitting. Aunt Lethh started up at their
entrance, but before she could speak, Garden said,

You received my letter? "

** Yes, and Fred's also, telling me to do everything you
desired."

*' Then you have everything prepared ? "

"Yes, everything."

Try to be calm, I beg of you, for your dear niece's
sake."

I will, I will. But it is all so strange — and I cannot
understand — "

Make no attempt to do so yet ; very soon soli will
know all. You will be ready to start with Fred at one
o'clock ? "

Yes, I shall be ready."

Wrap yourself up warm ; the nights are chilly now.
You may have some time to wait, but you will not mind
that. I want to be sure that you will be there before
us. Fred will show you exactly what you have to do, and
the time to do it. Sit down now and compose yourself. It
would be all the better if you could sleep for an hour or

two before you start. If you cannot sleep, you can rest ;
and remember that everything we are doing is to save an
innocent angel, to restore her to light and love."

One word only," said the agitated woman : "you have
hope ? "

"Something more than hope," replied Garden, with a
bright look ; " almost a certainty ! "

Oh, thank God ! — thank God ! " murmured Aunt Lethh ;
and, sinking into a chair, she covered her face with her
hands, and, with tears gushing from her eyes, prayed
silently and fervently

*• Mr. Garden," said Fanny, stepping forward and taking
his hand, " you will save my dear cousin ? "

If it is in man's power to save her," said Garden,
gazing earnestly at her sweet, imploring face, " I will save
her."

It IS in your power, is it not ? You believe it is in your
power ? "

Yes, Miss Lethbridge ; I firmly believe it."

All this time she had held his hand, and now she lowered
her face to it ; and a thrill ran through Garden's frame as

arms.

A STRANGE EXPERIMENT.

At an hour past midnight Fred Cornwall called for Aunt
Lethh in a closed carriage, drawn by a pair of smart horses.
Aunt Lethh, warmly enveloped in a cloak which entirely
covered her dress, was waiting for him. Parting from her
family with tears and kisses and blessings, she accompanied
Fred to the carriage, and they drove slowly off in the
direction of Parksides.

About a mile behind them, on the same road, trotted a
horse attached to a dog-cart. Garden was driving, and
Tom Barley sat by his side. On the back seat sat a groom.

What I want you to do, Tom," said Garden, " is to go
over the ground exactly as you did on the night of the
murder. Where you stopped then, I want you to stop
now ; and it will be all the better if you can remember the
exact turns you took on that occasion."

'* There's no fear, sir, of my not being able to remember.
Day and night I think of nothing else."

And now tell me again what occurred on the night Miss
Farebrother was turned from her father's house, and you
rode with her to London on that scoundrel Pamflett's horse."

Engaged in conversation, they drove along until they
heard the sound of carriage wheels in front of them ; and
presently, through the darkness, they discerned the carriage.

Hold the horse, Tom," said Garden. "That carriage
seems to be going the same road as we are, and I want to
be certain that we are going right."

We are going quite right, sir. I could take you* blindfold,
I believe."

I dare say, Tom," said Garden, jumping down from
the dog-cart ; " but I am a self-willed fellow, and I would
not make a mistake to-night for all the gold in the world.
We have plenty of time, have we not ? "

Plenty, sir."

Stop here, then. I will rejoin you presently."

He ran and called after the carriage; and the coachman,
obeying instructions from some one inside, pulled up. Ina

breathless state, Garden presented himself at the carriage
door.

"Are you all right and comfortable? " he gasped.
• "Yes, Dick," replied Fred. " And you ? "

Everything is going on splendidly," said Garden. " A
bright night, Mrs. Lethbridge, isn't it ? "

She pressed his hand in acquiescence, her voice failing
her when she tried to answer him. It was a singular
opinion to have of a night so dark that they could scarcely
see a dozen yards before them.

You must take care and not catch cold," said Garden.
Was Miss Lethbridge well when you left her ? "

Fred replied for Aunt Lethh. " Yes, Dick ; and she sent
you the kindest of messages."

It was very good of her to think of me. But you don't
mean to say you saw her, Fred ? She ought to have been
asleep hours before."

She is not going to bed to-night. Bob will remain
up with her. Uncle Lethh will take a Httle rest on the
sofa."

"Well, perhaps it is natural. I must get back to the

dog-cart now, or Tom Barley may be impatient. Drive on,
coachman."

As Garden retraced his steps to the dog-cart he saw with
his mind's eye Fanny's pretty face looking up through her
tears, and the smile upon his lips was a proof that the
vision was an agreeable one.

It was a little past four o'clock when the dog-cart drew
up at the gates of Parksides.

"Now, Tom," said Garden, as he and Tom Barley
alighted, *' take me over the ground, and don't make the
slightest mistake."

The strange task upon which they were engaged occupied
them till sunrise.

"Was the light when you saw the woman in the blue
dress about the same as it is now ? " asked Garden.

"Yes, sir; only it was a little earlier in the morning.
And I was standing as near as possible on this very spot
when I first saw her."

"I want to know the exact direction, Tom. We are
facing those trees yonder. Was it there ? "

Yes, sir ; among those very trees."

"Be sure, Tom," said Garden, stepping two or three
paces behind, and taking a white handkerchief from his
pocket. " Don't turn, Tom ! You are sure ? "

"I am sure, sir," said Tom, looking straight before
him.

Garden waved the white handkerchief high in the air,
and the next moment Tom uttered a loud cry, and darted
forward. Garden ran swiftly after him, and caught his arm.

Why, what is the matter with you, Tom ? "

There ! there ! " cried Tom, struggling to release himself;
but Garden held him fast. Tom's voice trembled
from excitement, and his face was white. " I saw her this
very minute."

Saw whom ? "

The woman in the blue dress," cried Tom. " Let me
go, sir ! let me go ! "

"You must be dreaming, Tom," said Garden, his heart
beating high with exultation. " Keep still, keep still !
Remember you have promised to obey me implicitly."

I saw her, I tell you ! " cried Tom, shaking all over, but
ceasing to struggle. " And now she has disappeared ! "

As she did on the night of the murder? "

"Yes, as she did then."

But you saw her again ? "

Yes, I saw her again."

But not in the same spot ? "

*' No," said Tom, turning in another direction. " This
way."

He walked on fifty or sixty yards, and Garden, holding
his arm more lightly, accompanied him.

Why do you stop, Tom ? "

Because I saw her in that clump the second time."

Garden took his hand from Tom's arm and stepped
behind him. Again he took his white handkerchief from
his pocket.

Are you quite sure you are not mistaken, Tom ? "

"It isn't possible for me to be mistaken," said Tom.
Garden once more waved his handkerchief in the air.
There ! there ! There she is again ! "

"All right ! " shouted Garden, as though he were addressing
some person in the distance. Racing after Tom, he
threw his arms around him.

*' If you don't let me go," screamed Tom, " I shall do
you a mischief ! There she is coming towards us ! "

Slowly approaching them was a woman in a pink dress,
holding her head down.

Now, Tom," whispered Garden. "It will be over in a
moment or two. For God's sake keep still, or you will
ruin everything ! Do you say that dress is blue ? "

*' What trick are you playing me ? " exclaimed Tom,
in a hoarse, broken voice. " Do you want to drive me
mad ? It IS blue, I tell you ! I'll take my dying oath
on it!"

The woman was now very near to them. She raised her
head, and Tom started back in affright as he recognised the
face of Aunt Lethh.

Tom," she said, holding out her hand.

But Tom, holding his hands out-stretched before him,
shrank from her as she advanced.

*' Tom," said Garden, "you know Mrs. Lethbridge ? "

"Yes," replied Tom, in the voice of a man who was
utterly dazed, " I know her."

Would she knowingly deceive you ? Would she, whose

one great hope is that of saving Miss Farebrother's life,
knowingly tell you a lie ? "

*' No ; she could not, she could not ! "

Mrs. Lethbridge," said Garden, " what is the colour of
the dress you are wearing ? "

Pink," said Aunt Lethh, with wistful trembling.

Pink ! " muttered Tom. " Am I going mad ? "

"And here is Mr. Cornwall," said Garden, as Fred joined
them. " Fred, what is the colour of the dress Mrs. Lethbridge
has on ? "

Pink," said Fred.

Mrs. Pamflett's favourite colour," said Garden. "''' The
colour of the dress she wore when you saw her here on the
night of the murder."

*' If you've got any pity in you, sir," implored Tom, " tell
me what all this means ! "

It means, Tom," answered Garden, " that Miss Fare-brother
is saved, and her innocence proved. It means,
Tom, that you are colour-blind. By the mercy of God this
has been discovered in time. See to Mrs. Lethbridge,
Fred ; she is fainting ! "

JEREMIAH AND HIS MOTHER DISAPPEAR.

That was the busiest of days. There was so much for
Richard Garden to do that the wonder was how the young
fellow got through it. There were reports from Kiss and
Linton to receive from time to time ; interviews to be held
with the Home Secretary ; interviews also with the judge
and with the lawyers for the prosecution ; test examinations
of Tom Barley by experts in colour-blindness ; excursions
to Scotland Yard ; and a thousand matters to be attended
to. Other persons were busy as well. There was sunshine
once more in Aunt Lethh's house ; the family were looking
forward with eager impatience to the joy of their dear girl's
release ; the room which Phoebe shared with Fanny was
made bright with flowers and ribbons ; every bit of furniture
in the house was polished, every saucepan lid scoured.
Uncle Lethh came home early from the bank, loaded with
delicacies for Phoebe. Yes; everything was for Phoebe.

Clean linen on every bed, a fire in every room, her own

chair here in this corner, on the table the books she loved,

the piano open, with her favourite songs ready, her desk

looking like new, with fresh ink and pens and paper —

everywhere spiritual signs of love. " Oh mamma, mamma ! "

sighed Fanny again and again, and, clasped in each other's

arms, the mother and daughter wept happy tears, and

kissed and laughed, and then broke into tears again. "But

we must be patient, daring," said Aunt Lethh. " See what

Fred says in this telegram — ' It cannot be to-day. There

are formalities to be gone through. I have seen Phoebe.

She knows something, but not all. I feared that the

shock would be too great. They say in the prison that

she is an angel. She sends you her dearest love. I

cannot come to you. Dick and I are very busy. God

bless you all ! ' So you see, Fanny, we mus be patient''

Telegrams were flying to and fro all the day. 'Amelia Jane

was wild with joy. " Tom may come now when he likes,"

she said, "and I shall have a beautiful fortune to tell him."

But Tom did not come to the house, nor did he send a

message, of even a single word,

VOL. III. 49

At eight o'clock in the evening Fred was alone in his
rooms, waiting for Kiss, who had arranged to come for him.
In company with Linton and a policeman in private clothes
they were to follow Jeremiah and his mother when those
two left their lodgings to meet the woman who had stolen
the bracelet. They were not acquainted with the place of
meeting, but it had been settled that the Pamfletts should
be stealthily followed, and that steps should be taken to
overhear what took place between them and the woman, and
that afterward the three should be arrested. Garden could
not form one of the party : he had too much to attend to.

It was destined, however, that this carefully-laid plan
was not to be carried out. Everything else had succeeded,
but this part of the programme of action was doomed to
failure.

Kiss did not appear until half past eight, and when he
entered the room Fred divined from the distress depicted
in his face that something had gone wrong. His first words
were :

They have escaped us, Mr. Cornwall."

Escaped you ! " cried Fred, in great excitement.

Yes. It is an unfortunate fact. I could beat my head
against the wall. Whether their suspicions were aroused,
or whether they had previously decided upon some course
of action of which we were in ignorance, I cannot say ;
but they have disappeared, and so mysteriously that we
don't know what to make of it."

You, or one of you, saw them go, surely ? "
No, sir, we did not ; and that is the strangest part of it.
We all thought they were in their rooms; nothing had
been heard of them for three or four hours, and we supposed
they were asleep. At last Mrs. Linton came down
from her cupboard, and said she did not know what to
think of it, but it really seemed to her as if their rooms
must be empty. Upon this the landlady said she would
go up and ask them whether they required anything, and
she did so ] a minute afterward she called to us to come
up, and we went. Their rooms were empty ; the fiends
had disappeared ; and that they were gone for good was
proved by their having taken certain things with them
which, if they had only gone on an errand, they need not

have touched."

49—2

Perhaps they will come back," said Fred.

Not they, sir," said Kiss, shaking his head. " They area
cunning pair, and they know what they are about. They
have thrown us off the scent, Mr. Cornwall ; there's no
doubt in my mind about that."

Fred considered a moment. " You have the address of
the woman they were to meet ? "

Yes, Mr. Cornwall."

"Give it to me. I will rattle there in a cab, and if
I cannot learn anything about her, I will join you at

No. 12."

*' You will find it difficult to obtain any information of
her, sir."

Money will accomplish anything. I shall find out what
I want to know."

Promising the cabman double fare if he drove at his
fastest pace, Fred, in less than half an hour, arrived at the
woman's lodgings. The landlady, as Kiss had foreseen,
was disinclined to speak of her lodger, but a tip of half a
sovereign and the promise of another loosened her tongue.

I don't see, after all," said the landlady, " why I

shouldn't oblige you. She has left the rooms, and is not
coming back."

Then she related how the woman had gone away in an
open manner, saying that she was about to leave England,
and did not intend to return. She was not going abroad
alone ; some friends were going with her. That was all.

Can you tell me her name ? " asked Fred.

The landlady replied that she did not know it.

That was the extent of the information Fred could
obtain ; and there was nothing for it but to go back to
Surrey Street and ascertain whether anything had been
heard of the Pamfletts. Nothing had been heard, and
none of the neighbours could enlighten them. It was evident
that they must have taken the greatest pains to get out
of the neighbourhood unobserved.

When Garden was informed of what had taken place he
was inexpressibly annoyed. It happened that Tom Barley
was with him when Fred was giving an account of the
occurrence.

Ah, well," said Garden, presently, " we must make the
best of it. We must put the police on their guard immediately.

The night trains to the Continent must be watched,
and tomorrow we will offer a reward for their apprehension.
I may manage to get an advertisement in some of the papers
to-night. I have seen Mr. Quinlan, the wealthy owner of
the stolen bracelet, and he has admitted that it was the
genuine one which was stolen. He said he told the story
to the police and the reporters in order that he should not
be annoyed. * I am rich enough to be able to afford such
a loss,' he said. Wish we were — eh, Fred ? I doubt
whether I should have succeeded in prevailing upon him tolet
me pursue the case had I not informed him that in connection
with it was a diabolical murder, for which an innocent
girl had been condemned to death. ' The man who
has the bracelet,' I said, * is the man who committed the
murder, and he and another laid an infernal plot to bring a
beautiful girl to a shameful end.' This excited him, and he
has given me carte blanche as to the expenses. So tomorrow
we will offer a reward of five hundred pounds for
the apprehension of Jeremiah Pamflett and his mother.
It is good to know that their disappearance will not retard
Miss Farebrother's release ; everything is in training for that

happy event. Ill as I can afford it, I would give something
out of my own pocket to know what takes place to-night
between the murderers and thieves."

To some extent, the late editions of the newspapers on
the following day supplied him and the country with the
intelligence he desired to obtain :

The Murder of Miser Farebrother. — The

Mystery of the Diamond Bracelet. — Strange

Revelations.

The painful interest excited in the public mind by the
trial of Miss Farebrother for the murder of her father,
Miser Farebrother — a crime of which, in the teeth* of the
verdict, the young lady is now incontestably proved to be
innocent — will be revived by the account we now publish of
an outrage which took place last night, in an untenanted
timber-yard near Nine Elms.

These premises have been unoccupied for some considerable
time. They are of large extent, and out of the
way of regular traffic. Early this morning, just before sunrise,
the policeman on the beat, passing the timber-yard,
heard a sound as of a person moaning within. Entrance

to the yard is obtained through a pair of wooden gates,
which are in a very dilapidated condition, being practically
off their hinges. Indeed, by persons of the neighbourhood
they are regarded as unsafe, and as likely soon to fall to
pieces. The policeman, passing through these gates and
going some distance into the yard — his course being guided
by the faint moaning which had first arrested his attention —
saw before him a woman in a frightful state. She was
bleeding from a deep wound at the back of her neck,
which must have been inflicted some hours previously, and
was not sufficiently sensible to understand or reply to the
questions addressed to her. Without delay the policeman
procured assistance, and the woman was conveyed to St.
Thomas's Hospital, where she was examined by the surgeon,
who pronounced the wound she had received fatal, giving it
as his opinion that she could not live twenty-four hours.
Her pockets, which bore the appearance of having been
rifled, contained nothing which afforded a clue to her name
or address, nor were her clothes marked in a way which
would lead to her identification. At ten o'clock this morning
the woman recovered consciousness, and being made

sensible that death was approaching, requested the presence
of a magistrate, to whom she made her dying deposition,
which we give here word for word :

* My name is Maria Baily. I was in the employ of a
wealthy lady, Mrs. Quinlan. I was acquainted with a man
who called himself Captain Ablewhite, but that is not his
right name, and I don't know what is. He promised to
marry me, and he prevailed upon me to steal a diamond
bracelet of great value. It was worth forty or fifty thousand
pounds. What I did with the bracelet after I took it
from the jewel-safe of my mistress has been described in all
the papers. We were stopping at the Langham Hotel. A
man was waiting outside on the night I stole it, and I went
and gave it to him, and then I ran away from my service
to a room Captain Ablewhite had taken for me in Leman
Street, Whitechapel. Captain Ablewhite told me that the
man to whom I gave the bracelet was named Jeremiah
Pamflett, and that his master, a rich money-lender. Miser
Farebrother, was going to lend money on it. Three days
after I stole the bracelet Captain Ablewhite took me away
to Germany, and I remained with him some time."

* He told me that Jeremiah Pamflett had cheated
him ; that he had promised to get four thousand pounds
from Miser Farcbrother for the bracelet, and that Jeremiah
Pamflett had given him only two hundred. When the
account was put into the newspapers that the bracelet I
had stolen was of no value, and that the stones in it were
false, Captain Ablewhite said it was not true, and that the
bracelet I had given to Jeremiah Pamflett was the real one.
Then Captain Ablewhite quarrelled with me, and deserted
me. Not knowing what to do, I returned to London and
found out Jeremiah Pamflett. I thought it would have
been difficult to find him, but it was very easy, because his
master had been murdered, and there was a great trial just
over, in which Miser Farebrother's daughter had been
found guilty of the murder of her father. Jeremiah Pam-fleet
tried to escape from me ; but I would not let him,
and the end of it was that he confessed he had the bracelet
in his possession ; and he proposed that he, his mother,
and I should all go away together to America, where he
would be able to sell the diamonds, and where, changing
our names, we could live in safety. We were to meet

last night at Nine Elms, and he and his mother were there
when I arrived. So that we could talk together undisturbed,
he took me to the place in which I was discovered,
and there we had a quarrel. He wanted to give me ten
pounds only, and said that he would send me more after
he got safely away. I was in a great passion, and I asked
him if Miser Farebrother had given him four thousand
pounds for the bracelet — which money he said he had given
to Captain Ablewhite — how it was that it was now in his
possession. He said that was his business ; and then we
got to higher words, and I accused him of murdering
Miser Farebrother so that he might rob him. Then Jeremiah
Pamflett said : " Do you want to know the truth ?
I did kill him ; and that is how I got the bracelet back
again. But you shall not live to tell anybody else. I will
kill you as I killed the miser ! " As he said that, he plunged
a knife into me, and I fell to the ground. The last words
I heard were what his mother said : " She is dead ; you
have killed her. Let us get away as quick as possible."
I do not remember anything more. I know I am dying.
And I swear to God that I have told nothing but the truth ! '

Maria Baily signed this deposition, and then almost
immediately became unconscious. The latest reports
are to the effect that she cannot live through the
night.

Thus, in a strange and providential manner, a frightful
injustice has been averted. It is singular that on the very
day on which Jeremiah Pamflett committed this second
murder, other evidence was obtained of the innocence of
the young lady who, by an error of justice, was pronounced
guilty of the murder of her father. The strongest evidence
against the unfortunate and cruelly-wronged lady was supplied
by a friend who had a deep affection for her. We
refer to the evidence of Tom Barley, a policeman, who
swore that he saw in the grounds of Parksides, at the time
of the murder of the miser, a woman in a blue dress. Such
a dress did Miss Farebrother wear when she went from her
aunt's house in London, with the intention of asking her
father for some assistance by which her aunt's family could
be extricated from a temporary difficulty. It is now proved
that Tom Barley is colour-blind, and that the woman he
really saw had on a pink dress, such as Mrs. Pamflett,

Jeremiah Pamflett's mother, wore on that occasion. This
strange discovery opens up a fruitful field of speculation.
Other evidence is also forthcoming which indubitably
establishes Miss Farebrother's innocence.

'* There is now no reason to doubt that the story related
by Mrs. Pamflett of the events of the night on which Miser
Farebrother met his death was from first to last a cunningly
invented fabrication. Part of this evidence is supplied by
a gentleman who has been absent from England on business,
and who testifies that Jeremiah Pamflett did not
return to Miser Farebrother's London office until seven
o'clock of the morning of the murder. It will be-remembered
that Jeremiah Pamflett swore that he returned at
eleven o'clock on the previous night. He and his mother
are at large : they could scarcely have had time and opportunity
to effect their escape, as a watch was kept upon all
the outgoing trains to the Continent last night. The police
are on the alert, and it is to be hoped, in the interests of
justice, that the criminals will soon be arrested and put
upon their trial for their diabolical crimes."

CHIEFLY CONCERNING FANNY.

Of all Phoebe's friends and well-wishers there was only one
who did not openly share in the joy occasioned by her
release. Congratulations poured in from all sides, even
from strangers at a distance, whose letters of sympathy
were delivered by smiling postmen at Aunt Lethh's house at
least half a dozen times a day. Phoebe's escape from her
dread peril was, indeed, universally hailed with thankfulness
and gratitude. Everybody was glad ; the newspapers found
in it a fruitful theme for grave disquisition ; and Phoebe
became a heroine in the best and sweetest sense of the
term. As for Uncle Lethh's day-dreams, as he walked to his
bank in the morning and home from his day's labours in
the evening, imagination could not excel them in delightfulness.
Sunshine reigned in his home and in the hearts
of all he loved.

The one friend who held aloof was Tom Barley. No
person was more profoundly grateful than he at the proclamation
of Phoebe's innocence ; but he contracted a horror
of himself as being the principal cause of his dear young
mistress's sufferings. All appeals to him to soften this
hard judgment were vain ; he would scarcely listen to them,
and when, against his will, he was compelled to do so, they
had no effect upon him.

It ain't a bit of good speaking to me," he said, moodily ;
*' I don't deserve to live. And I shouldn't care to but for
one thing."

That one thing was a fierce burning desire to* bring
Jeremiah Pamflett and his wicked mother to justice. For,
strange to say, all the vigilance of the police had proved
fruitless; the wretches were still at liberty, and not the
slightest clue to their hiding-place had been discovered.
A month had passed since Phoebe's release, and they had
successfully evaded pursuit. It was believed by some that
they had escaped from the country ; but Tom Barley held
a different opinion. He was still in the force — a capable,
faithful public servant, zealous and judicious in the performance

of his duties, and regarded with esteem by his
superiors ; but a blight had fallen upon his life — a blight
which 'he felt would not be removed until, through him,
and through him alone, justice was satisfied. This idea
grew into a kind of disease in him. It seemed as if he
could exist without sleep. When not on duty he was indefatigable
in hunting up clues, in making secret inquiries,
in keeping watch in out-of-the-way places for the monsters
of iniquity at whose door a double murder lay. He took
no person into his confidence ] he would accept no assistance
; and he devoted every spare minute to the design
upon which he had set his heart. His friends did not relinquish
their efforts to woo him to a more peaceful and
better frame of mind. Accompanied by Fred Cornwall,
Phoebe went to him, and begged him not to torment himself
with self-reproach. He listened to her in silence, with
head bent down.

"Will you not speak to me, Tom?" she-asked, imploringly.


"What can I say?" was his humble response. "How
can I hope that you will ever forgive me ? "

But there is nothing to forgive, Tom," she said, sweetly,
holding out her hand.

"It is like you to say so," he replied, "rand it makes it
all the worse for me."

I never knew you to be unkind to me before, Tom,"
she said.

He turned away from her, and would not accept her
hand. Fred Cornwall followed him, and said,

You should not make her suffer, Tom ; you are inflicting
great pain upon the sweetest lady in the world."

She is that, sir," said Tom, " and more. If I could
die at her feet to save her a minute's pain I'd be glad to doit.
Look here, sir ; when I bring two devils to justice I'll
ask her to forgive me ; but not till then ! "

'Amelia Jane tried her arts upon him, and even waylaid
him one night in a quiet corner, with a pack of cards in her
hands, with which she begged to be allowed to tell his fortune
; but he was adamant. Nevertheless, his friends would
not desert him.

"He is too good a fellow to be lost sight of," said Fred

Cornwall ; " we'll win him back to us yet."

VOL. III. 60

There was a bright future before Fred and his dear girl.
Miser Farebrother had died without a will, and Phoebe
came into possession of the property he left behind him.
Investigation proved that it had been tampered with by
Jeremiah Pamflett, but a competence was saved from the
wreck. The greatest happiness Phoebe derived from this
was that it enabled her to assist Aunt and Uncle Lethh out
of their difficulties. Happy were the evenings spent in
the old home in Camden Town. Affairs were prospering
with Fred Cornwall in the exercise of his profession.
Events had brought his name into prominence, and briefs
were flowing in. In a great measure he had Dick Garden
to thank for this better turn in his fortunes. This astute
young fellow would not take all the credit to himself of
setting justice right ; he made it public that it was due
equally to his friend Fred, and both of them were on the
high-road to fame. Fred seldom made his appearance in
Aunt Lethh's house without Dick, who seemed to find
therein some great attraction. The strange and solemn
experiences of the last few weeks had made Fanny Lethbridge
quieter and less lively than of old ; but occasionally

flashes of her pleasant, saucy humour peeped out, to the
delight of all, and especially to the delight of Dick Garden,
who generally contrived to obtain a seat next to her. It was
too soon for teasing to commence, else Bob, who was suspected
of having a second or third love affair on hand,
might have ventured retaliation upon his sister, and,
judging from what was stirring in Fanny's heart, he would
assuredly have had the best of it. For the present, however,
she was spared ; the spirit of tender, grateful love
which reigned in the happy home was too profound even
for innocent jest. Doubtless, however, the time would
come when the merry equilibrium would be restored.

"Fred," said Dick Garden, as they were walking home
one night from the Lethbridges', " when are you and Miss
Farebrother going to get married ? "

"Not settled yet," replied Fred; "nothing said about it.
We must let some nine or ten months pass, I suppose."

"About this time next year, perhaps ? "

Yes ; or a little earlier if I can bring it about. Thinking
of anything particular, Dick ? "

Yes, old fellow."

50-2

** In connection with our wedding ? "

Well—partly."

With weddings generally, then ? "

*not generally, Fred, specifically. Of course a fellow
doesn't know anything yet."

Of course not," said Fred, smiling. " Shall I guess a
name ?

"Try."

Fanny ? "

Yes, Fanny," said Dick Garden, and then there was a
little pause. " Fred, you have known them a long time ? "

*' I have."

Good people."

The best, the sweetest, the most faithful and devoted.
Would to Heaven the world was filled with such ! "

I am with you there. But what I want to ask you is
about Miss Lethbridge."

"Fanny? Yes."

I don't wish you to betray family secrets, old fellow ;
but she is such a lovely girl — "

She is."

"With so beautiful a nature that she could not fail to
have attracted — you know what I mean, Fred ; I am putting
it rather lamely."

An attachment ? "

Yes ; but you put it somewhat coarsely."

Didn't mean to, Dick. Quite right that you should be
sensitive. Attracted ? Rather ! A dozen at least have
sighed for her, and sighed in vain."

Why ? "

Not the right ones, Dick. If there is one quality above
another which distinguishes Fanny it is genuineness. A
more genuine girl doesn't breathe. Dick, to be admitted
upon terms of intimacy with that family is a privilege."

I esteem it such. Not the right ones, Fred ? Of
course that must be the reason."

It is. Where she gives her hand she will give her
heart. They go together — both or none."

Do you think — that is, have you any sort of idea — that
she has met the right one at last ? "

Seriously, Dick ? In perfect faith and honour ? "

Seriously, Fred. In perfect faith and honour'*

Dick, old boy," said Fred, earnestly, " I have a sort of
idea that she has."

"You are a shrewd fellow, Fred — you have a trick of
observation. You know what I mean ? "

I do, Dick."

Well, then, good luck to us !"

The month was November; a fog was gathering ; a light
mist was dissolving, and falling cold and chill ; but Dick
Garden was glowing from within. As he was buttoning
his coat a man brushed past them, and Fred caught a
glimpse of his face.

"A moment, Dick," he said, hurriedly, "that is Tom
Barley. I must have a word with him."

He hastened after Tom, and accosted him.

It is you, Tom. Have you any news ? "

None, sir — that is, none that I can speak of. Don't
stop me, please; I haven't a minute to spare." These
words came straggling from Tom's lips, and in his anxiety
he seemed to be hardly aware of what he was saying.

Am I mistaken in the idea that you have heard something
? " asked Fred.

No, sir, you are not mistaken. I am on their
track."

'ras you have been before, Tom ? "

"That's true, sir," said Tom, with a sigh; "as I have
been before."

Can I assist you ? "

No, sir ; nor any one. What I do I'll do single-handed."
He wrenched himself free. " Good-night,
sir."

Only another word, Tom. Have you any message for
Miss Phoebe ? She told me, if I met you, to give you her
love." •

Did she, sir ? She's an angel of goodness. Any
message, sir ? Yes, this — if I don't live to accomplish what
I've set my life upon, if I don't live to ask her forgiveness
myself, to think of me kindly sometimes as a man who
would gladly have died for her !"

He darted away, and was lost in the mist. Fred gazed
thoughtfully after him, and then he rejoined Garden.

There goes an honest, suffering man," he said ;
"thorough to the backbone. He has inflicted a martyrdom

upon himself, and is following a will-o'-the-wisp."


But the events of the next few hours were destined to
prove that Fred Cornwall was in error.

"-^MM^

A LIFE-AND-DEATH STRUGGLE.

It was an hour past midnight, and the fog had deepened
so that a man could scarcely see a yard before him. On
the North Finchley Road it lay particularly thick, and the
sky and surrounding space seemed to be blotted out — as
they certainly were from two wayfarers who plodded their
way slowly onward through the darkness. They were a
man and a woman, who, although they were wrapped in
gloom, cast apprehensive glances on all sides, and frequently
stopped to listen for sounds of footsteps.

Jeremiah, my love," said the woman, shivering, " why
did you insist upon our leaving our nice warm quarters on
such a night ? It will be the death of me."

/'// be the death of you," growled the man, " if you
call me by my name ! Mind that, you old fool ! "

Don't speak to me so hard ! " implored the woman ;

no one can hear us. The night ain't fit for a dog to be
out in it."

That's the reason we're out in it," said Jeremiah, with
a curse. *' Hold your row, if you don't want me to do you
a mischief! "

Oh ! " murmured Mrs. Pamflett, " that you should
say such things to me after all I've done for
you!"

*' After all you've done for me ! Yes, you have done forme
! If it hadn't been for you dragging at my heels I
should have been out of this infernal scrape weeks ago.
You're a nice mother, you are ! What's the use of such as
you, I'd like to know ? "

They were so well disguised that it would have been
difficult even for those best acquainted with them to
identify them ; hence Jeremiah's caution to his mother as
to being careful with her speech was not unnecessary.
Nevertheless, he presently spoke again, either because he
deemed that the darkness by which they were surrounded
afforded them sufficient security or because he dreaded the
terrors of silence.

"Why did I insist upon our leaving our nice warm
quarters ? You want me to tell you that, do you ? "

** Yes," she whined. " We were safe there — we were safe
there ! " *

We were not ! Had we remained we should have been
nabbed by this time, and then what chance would have
been left for us ? The landlord warned me ; he told me
we were being hunted down, and that there was danger in
our keeping in our hiding-place another night."

Who has hunted us down — who, my love ? "

Yah ! keep your love to yourself ; I'm sick of it. Who ?
Ah, I should like to know, and have him here ! There'd be
no more hunting down for him, I promise ! "

The landlord was frightened ; he wanted to get rid
of us."

Frightened ? Perhaps he was ; but he would not have
been in a hurry to get rid of such good customers without
good cause. He's had a matter of a hundred pounds
already out of me, and he knew I had enough left to go on
with a pretty long time yet. But I kept the diamond
bracelet from him, with all his cunning. He wormed and

wormed, but he never got out of me that I had it safe
about me. I was his match there. Let's have a look at it,
mother. It does one's heart good. It's the only thing that
keeps me up."

He crouched down by the side of the hedge and drew
forth a dark lantern, which he lighted. Then he rose, and
looked about him, projecting the light into dark spaces
around to make sure that no person was near. He saw
nothing, heard nothing. Down he crouched again, and
from an inner pocket pulled out a jewel-case, which he
opened.

Look at them, mother — how they glitter and shine !
Ah, you beauties, there's nothing false about you ! If we
were safe in a foreign country, or in America — I prefer
America, mother ; looking for us there would be like looking
for a needle in a bottle of hay — if we were safe therewith
this in our pockets, we could live a long life of pleasure
and comfort. I should know how to dispose of the stones
one by one, secretly, secretly ! It's the land for diamonds.
Then I could have my fling."

Neither of the pair saw or had any suspicion of the

shadow that was creeping through thicker shadows than
itself, closer, closer, closer. Neither of them saw, or had
any suspicion of, the hand of doom coming nearer, nearer,
nearer, to strike terror to their guilty souls.

Here, take a pull at this, mother," said Jeremiah, handing
her a bottle.

It warms me, it warms me ! " murmured Mrs. Pamflett.

"Don't empty the bottle," cried Jeremiah, snatching it
from her. " You're a selfish cat ! "

"What did the landlord tell you, Jeremiah, about our
being hunted down ? "

There's been a man making inquiries about the lodgers,
and offering money to find out things. He didn't know
who he was, but it looked suspicious, and we were safer out
of the house than in it. Take another look at the beauties,
mother, before I put them away."

Closer, closer, closer crept the shadow. Closer, closer,
closer came the hand of doom.

Do you think we shall get safe away ? " whispered Mrs.
Pamflett, as Jeremiah crouched, gloating over the diamonds.

Do I think it ? — I'm sure of it ! The police have been

too long off the scent for them to get on to it again. All

we've got to do is to be cunning, cunning — "

"Jeremiah !" screamed Mrs. Pamflett.

The shadow loomed over them, fell upon them, and
seized them and the diamond bracelet. In a moment
Jeremiah had wrested it back again, and three human
beings were engaged in a deadly struggle.

I arrest you," cried Tom Barley, " for the murder of
Miser Farebrother and Maria Baily ! "

The contest was unequal. Strong as Tom Barley was,
Jeremiah and his mother had the strength of desperation,
and they succeeded in flinging him off. But he fell on
them again, and his cries for help rang loud through the
night.

It's you, Tom Barley, is it ? " muttered Jeremiah, as the
struggle was proceeding. " It's you that's been hunting us
down, is it ? "

Yes, it's me," said Tom Barley, getting his mouth free —
Mrs. Pamflett was endeavouring to stifle his cries with her
hand — "and as God is your judge you're as good as dead !"

Hold on to him, mother, a moment," said Jeremiah ;

** fix your teeth in him ! Say your prayers, Tom Barley ; it's
you that's as good as dead ! "

Ah 1 " screamed Tom, and he dropped.
Jeremiah had succeeded in plucking a knife from his
pocket, and, opening it, had plunged it into Tom. He had
aimed at the honest fellow's heart, but he had missed, and
the knife had gone through the upper part of the right arm,
cutting it cruelly to the bone. It was this that had caused
Tom to let go his hold upon them. They took advantage
of the release, and fled through the darkness. But in a
moment Tom was on his feet again, and pursuing them,
the blood flowing fast from the wound. He did root feel
the pain of it ; all that he bemoaned was that his arm was
useless and that his voice was growing weak. Before fifty
yards were traversed he had seized them again.

"Curse it ! " cried Jeremiah, *' I have lost my knife."

*' That's my luck," muttered Tom, clinging to them.

Help ! help ! "

They beat him frightfully about the head, and he flung
it feebly this way and that in the endeavour to escape the
cruel blows ; but he did not loose his hold of them again.

In the blind and dreadful struggle they stumbled wildly
about, and suddenly they fell crashing down over an embankment.
And still Tom Barley, feeling now that life was
ebbing from him, held desperately on to them, and still his
cries floated on the air. To the frightful sounds of this
contest another was added the moment they reached the
bottom of the embankment. They had fallen upon a railway
track, and a train was approaching. Two huge fierce
eyes glared luridly in the fog. Tom's voice grew fainter
and fainter, but he never relaxed his hold of the murderers.


Help ! help ! help ! I have caught the murderers !
Help ! help ! help ! "

The clatter of the approaching train almost, but not quite, ,
drowned his appeals. They fell vaguely upon the ears of
the engine-driver, and he instantly slackened steam. But
the huge lurid eyes were now very close upon the struggling
forms.

Damn you ! " screamed Jeremiah, " will you let go ? "
No," said Tom, through his clenched teeth, " not till
I'm dead ! And then I won't ! "

Then there's an end of you ! " cried Jeremiah, and by a
determined and powerful effort he succeeded in throwing
the lower portion of Tom's body across the rails. Fortunately
Tom's head was off the line, and his left arm was
wound tightly round Jeremiah's neck. The train passed
over Tom's foot, and cut it clean away, but Tom, although
he had swooned, held on like grim death, and did not even
feel Jeremiah's teeth fixed in his arm. In this position
they were found a moment or two afterward, when the
train was stopped, and it was with great difficulty that the
engine-driver and passengers could part him who lived from
him who looked like dead. *

The news ran through the length and breadth of the
kingdom the next morning, and telegraph wires flashed it allover
the world. Tom Barley did not wake to find himself
famous, for the reason that for several weeks he was in
delirium, and very, very near to death. But none the less
was he made famous and dubbed a hero of heroes for the
wondrous battle he had fought. Newspapers and magazines
sang his praises, and poets deified him. The days of

Homer died not in Homer's verse We have as glorious
VOL. III. 51

heroes to-day as have been handed down, immortalized
from those by-gone times. We have hearts as valiant, and,
souls as noble, and love as sweet and pure, in this age
which is dubbed commercial and prosaic ; and though Tom
Barley has a wooden leg, he is worthy to shake hands with
Achilles. No such desire possesses him, or possessed him,
when he saw Phoebe sitting by his bedside in the hospital.

*' You are getting strong again, Tom ? "

Yes, Miss Phoebe ; thank God ! Is everybody well ? "

Everybody, Tom."

*your aunt and uncle, and Miss Fanny and Master
Robert ? "

"They are all well, Tom. They send their love, and
will come and see you when they are allowed."

They are very good. And Mr. Cornwall, Miss Phoebe
he is well, I hope ? "

*' Quite well, Tom. He is below, waiting for me."

I am glad to hear it. Miss Phoebe. But perhaps I am
making a mistake."

In what, Tom ? "

In calling you Miss Phoebe."

** No, Tom." She held up her left hand.

If I dared to ask a favour ? "

*' You may dare to ask anything, Tom."

*' That I may be allowed to come to the wedding ? "

Indeed, Tom, I think that is what we are waiting for.
We could not be happy without you."

I can't thank you now. Miss Phoebe," said Tom, tears
gathering in his eyes. " I will when I'm stronger. There
is another thing."

Yes, Tom ? "

*' Say that you forgive me ! "

Ah, Tom ! "

It will make' me happy. Miss Phoebe."

Only because you have that foolish idea in your head —
Tom, I forgive you ! "

She stooped and kissed him, as she had kissed him on
the morning he brought her from Parksides and gave her
into the care of her good Aunt Lethh.

I am truly grateful," murmured Tom, in a choking
voice, as he turned his face to the wall.

OFF FOR THE HONEY-MOON.

Welcome the coming, speed the parting, guest." Therefore
shall our last chapter be short.

In the autumn of the following year a quiet wedding-party
assembled after church in Aunt Lethh's house. To be
exact, it was a double wedding-party — Phoebe and Fred,
Fanny and Dick. It was a gathering of friends, some of
whom have played their parts in this story, and whom, I
hope, we have grown to love. The Lethbridge family, of
course — I cannot stop to relate the wonderful day-dream
Uncle Lethh had on that morning — and Mr. and Mrs. Linton
and Kiss, and 'Amelia Jane and Tom Barley ; those
were the principal ones. There were also connections of
Fred Cornwall and Dick Garden, all amiable, pleasant persons,
if one could judge from their faces. Tom Barley had
just whispered something to 'Amelia Jane, and her answer
was.

Lor', Tom ; I'm ashamed to think of it ! "

Then you won't," whispered Tom.

"Yes, I will," replied 'Amelia Jane, very quickly. "It was
the way the fortune came out last night. But to think of
it, Tom ! to think of it ! "

And to the surprise of all, not one of whom had heard a
word of what had passed, 'Amelia Jane threw her apron over
her head, where it hung down like a bridal veil. She had
put on the apron when she came from the church into the
house, to wait upon the company. It was a smarter apron
than usual, and she was proud of it ; and, as you see, she
put it to good use — to hide her blushes. *

The two young couples will set up house-keeping on the
day they return from their honey-moon tour. The houses
are taken, and Aunt Lethh will be very busy while they are
away setting everything in order for her dear ones. Tom
Barley will live with Phoebe and Fred as gardener — that is,
unless he and 'Amelia Jane decide to set up a separate
establishment of their own. Tom is in a position to do
this. He has received the five hundred pounds offered asa
reward for the recovery of the diamond bracelet, and at

least another five hundred subscribed by an admiring public
for his gallant conduct.

How do you do, Mrs. Cornwall ? " whispered Fanny to
Phoebe.

How do you do, Mrs. Garden ? " whispered Phoebe to
Fanny.

Then they stepped aside and kissed and embraced, with
faces like an April day — one of the brightest and most
beautiful of April days.

Their last kisses, their last embraces, are for Aunt Lethh.
She stands at the door gazing after the carriages with sweet
and wistful eyes. And so the young people commence their
happy wedded life.

THE END

KELLY AND CO , GATE STREET, LINCOLN'S INN FIELDS, W.C. J

AND MIDDLE MILL, KINGSTON-ON-THAMES,

3 0112 045831457
