iKnERITANCE

^J=

-yk^

3. Z. fA^J£OM

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS

AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN



Fuisse
vel

BY

B. L. FARJEON,

AUTHOR OF " Great PORTER SQUARE," " IN A SILVER SEA,'
THE HOUSE OF WHITE SHADOWS," ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. I

LONDON

WARD AND DOWNEY

12, YORK STREET, COVENT GARDEN, W.C.



LONDON AND nUNGAY.

V.

A SECRET INHERITANCE.

BOOK THE FIRST.
THE RECORD OF GABRIEL CAREW.

VOL. I. ' B

My earliest distinct remembrances are of a
mean and common home in London, in which
I Heed with my parents and a servant named
Fortress. She was a young woman, her age
being twenty-four or five, but her manners
were as sedate as those of a matron who had
a distaste for frivolity and tittle-tattle. She
performed her duties quietly and in silence,
and seldom spoke unless she were first
addressed. She did not take the trouble
to render herself agreeable to me, or to win
my affection. This was entirely to my
liking, as I was of a retired habit of mind

B 2

and disposition. It was not unusual for
weeks to pass without our exchanging a word.
We were surrounded by squalid thoroughfares,
the residents in which were persons
occupying the lowest stations of life, human
bees whose hives were not over stocked with
honey, being indeed, I have no doubt, frequently
bare of it. This was not the result
of indolence, for they toiled early and late.
I saw, and observed. Sometimes I wondered,
sometimes I despised, and I always
shrank from close contact with these sordid
conditions of existence. If I had possessed
a store of pocket-money it is not unlikely
that a portion of it would have been expended
in charity, but I will not affirm that
I should have been impelled to liberality by
motives of benevolence. We were, however,
very poor, and my father seldom gave
me a penny. I did not complain ; I had

no wants which money could gratify. I
did not consort with other children ; I did
not play or associate with them ; when they
made advances towards me I declined to
receive them, and I held myself entirely
aloof from their pleasures and occupations.
in this respect I instinctively followed the
fashion of our home and the example of
my parents. They had no friends or intimate
acquaintances. During the years we
lived thus poorly and meanly, not a man,
woman, or child ever entered our doors to
partake of our hospitality, or to impart what
would possibly have been a healthy variety
to our days.

Our dwelling consisted of two rooms at
the top of a small house. They were
attics ; in one my mother and Mrs. Fortress
slept ; in the other my father and I. The
bed he and I occupied was shut up during

the day, and made an impotent pretence
of beinor a chest of drawers. This room

o

was our Having room, and we took our
meals in it.

In speaking of our servant as Mrs.
Fortress I do not intend to convey that
she was a married woman. My impression
was that she was single, and I should have
scouted the idea of her having a sweetheart ;
but my parents always spoke of and to her
as Mrs. Fortress.

From the window of our living-room I
could see, at an angle, a bit of the River
Thames. The prospect was gloomy and
miserable. There was no touch of gaiety
in the sluggish panorama of the life on the
water. The men on the barges, working
with machine-like movement against the tide,
were begrimed and joyless ; the people on
the penny steamers seemed bent on anything

but pleasure ; the boys who played
about the stranded boats when the tide
was low were elfish and mischievous. The
land life was in keeping. The backs of
other poor houses were scarcely a handshake
off. On a sill here and there were
a few drooping flowers, typical of the residents
in the poverty-stricken neighbourhood.
Sometimes as I gazed upon these
signs an odd impression stole upon me
that we had not always lived in this mean
condition. I saw dimly the outlines of a
beautiful house, with gardens round it, of
horses my parents used to ride, of carriages
in which we drove, of many servants to
wait upon us. But it was more like a
dream than reality, and I made no reference
to it in my parents' hearing, and did not
ask them whether my fancies had any
substantial foundation.

When I say that a cloud rested upon
us, I mean the figure of speech to bear no
partial application. It was dark and palpable
; it entered into our lives ; it
shadowed all our days. On more than one
occasion I noticed my parents gazing apprehensively
at me, and then piteously at each
other ; and upon their discovering that I
was observing them they would force a
smile to their lips, and assume a gaiety in
which, young as I was, I detected a false
ring. My mother did not always take her
meals with us ; my father and I frequently
sat at the table alone.

Your mother is not well enough to
join us," he would sometimes say to me.
If he saw me gazing on the vacant
chair.

There were occasions when he and I
would go into the country, and I do not

remember that my mother ever accompanied
us. There would be no preliminary preparation
for these trips, nor was it customary
for my father to say to me on the
morning or the evening before these departures,
"We are going into the country
tomorrow, Gabriel." We always seemed
to be suddenly called away, and our return
was also sudden and, to me, unexpected.
These holidays would, in the ordinary course
of things, have been joyfully hailed by most
poor lads. Not so by me. They were
most melancholy affairs, and I was glad to
get back from them. My father appeared
to be suffering from greater anxiety in the
country than in London. The excuse for
these sudden departures was that my mother
was 111, and needed quiet. We stopped at
poor inns, and had no money to spend in
junketings.

I would like to take you to such or
such a place," my father would say, '' but I
cannot afford it."

It does not matter, father," I would
answer. '' I should be happy if I only had
my books about me."

It was the being separated from my little
library that made the country so irksome
to me. I was passionately fond of reading,
and my store of literature consisted of
books which had belonged to my father,
and had been well thumbed by him. They
were mine ; he had given them to me on
my birthday. Of their nature it is sufficient
to say here that they were mostly classics,
and that among them were very few of a
light character.

One morning a ray of light shone through
the dark spaces of our lives.

We wei-e sittings at breakfast in our lodgings

in London when Mrs. Fortress brought
in a letter for my father. It was an unusual
event, and my father turned it over
leisurely in his hand, and examined the
writing on the envelope before he opened
it. But his manner changed when he read
the letter ; he was greatly agitated, and my
mother asked anxiously :

Have you bad news ? "

*'No," he replied, *good."

He was silent for a few moments, and his
next words were :

Mildred, can you bear a shock?"

'' Yes," said my mother, *' as the news is
good."

'' We are rich once more," my father said,
and then exclaimed, as he gazed around
upon the mean walls of our apartment,
^' Thank God ! "

A relative of ours had died in a distant

land, and had left his fortune to my father.
My father had had no expectations from
him, and had, indeed, almost forgotten his
existence. The greater was our surprise
at this sudden change in our circumstances.


Although there were formalities to begone
through before my father came into
possession of the large legacy, and although
seven or eight weeks elapsed before wee
removed from our poor lodgings, the change
from poverty to riches was almost immediately
apparent. My father presented me
with a purse containing money. I do not
remember how much, but there were sovereigns
in it.

I was not proud ; I was not elated. The
prospect of living in a better place, with
better surroundings, was agreeable to me,
but it did not excite me. With my purse

in my pocket I went to a shop in which
second-hand books were sold, and among
them some I desired to possess. I bought
what I wished, and carried them away with
me. On my way home I noticed a little
girl sitting on a doorstep, and there was a
wan look in her pale face which attracted
me. By her side was a crutch. As I
stood looking at her for a moment, the
string with which my books were tied
became undone, the paper in which the
were wrapped burst, and the books fell to
the ground. I stooped to pick them up,
but the books, being loose and of different
sizes, were cumbersome to hold, and I called
to the girl that I would give her a shilling
if she helped me.

*' A shilling ! " she exclaimed, and rose
upon her feet, but immediately sank to the
ground, with a cry of pain.

"What is the matter with you?" I
asked. '' I haven't hurt you, have I ? "

She pointed to her crutch. Thinking
that she wished me to hand it to her, I
Hated it from the ground, and found that it
was broken.

*you are lame' I said.

Yes," she said, looking at me admiringly
from her crouching position ; the twitch in
her leg had caused her but momentary
suffering, ** I can't stand without my crutch,
and it's broke."

But you tried to stand when I called
to you."

'' Oh, yes ; you said you'd give me a
shilling, and I didn't think of my leg."

Much virtue in a shilling, thought I, to
cause one to forget such an affliction.

'' I wouldn't mind buying you a crutch,"
I said, " if I knew where they were sold."

There's a shop in the next street," said
the girl, " where the master's got the feller
one to this. It's a rag and bone shop, and
he'll sell it cheap."

I'll show you the shop, young sir, if you
like," said a voice at my elbow.

The tone and the manner of speech were
refined, and it surprised me, therefore, when
I turned, to behold a figure strangely at
variance with this refinement. The man
was in rags, and the drunkard's stamp
was on his features, but in his kind eyes
shone a sadly humorous light. Moreover,
he spoke as a gentleman would have
spoken.

I accepted his offer to show me the rag
and bone shop, and we walked side by side,
conversing. To be exact, I should say that
he talked and I listened, for he used twenty
words to one of mine. This kind of social

intercourse was rare in my experiences,
and it proved interesting, by reason of my
chance companion being an exception to
the people who Heed in the neighbourhood.
Few as were the words I uttered, they, and
the books I carried under my arm, served
to unlock his tongue, and he regaled me
with snatches of personal history. He was
familiar with the books I had purchased,
and expressed approval of my selection.
He had, indeed, been born a gentleman,
and had received a Liberal education.

*' Which has served to convince me," he
observed, '' that if it is in the nature of a
man to swim with the current into which
he has drifted or been driven, swim with
it he must, wheresoever it may lead him."

'there is the power of resistance," I said.

There is nothing of the sort," was his
comment, " unless it is agreeable to the

man to exercise it. We are but straws.
It is fortunate that life is short, and that
happiness does not consist in wearing a
jewelled crown. Young sir, how came you
to live in these parts ? "

I do not know," I replied. '' My
parents live here."

'' But you are not poor."

By this time I had bought the
odd crutch, and my companion had
seen the gold in my purse when I paid
for it.

*' We have been," I said, " but are so no
longer."

'shade of Pluto!" he cried. ''If I
could but say as much ! So, being suddenly
made rich, you open your heart to pity's
call ? " I shook my head in doubt, and he
touched the crutch. '' Don't you think this
a fine thing to do ? "

VOL. I. c

'' I am not sure," I said.

Excellent ! " he exclaimed. " Praise
me not for my virtues ; blame me not for
my vices. That morality, in respect to the
average man, is a knife that cuts both
ways. To sinners like myself it is more
comforting than otherwise."

He puzzled me, and I told him so, but
he made a pretence of disbelieving me,
and said,

'' There are depths in you, young sir.
You may live to discover that you are in
the wrong century."

That I did not clearly understand him
did not render his conversation less
interesting. I gave the girl the crutch
and a shilling, and left her and the man
together,

I record this incident because it is the
only one I remember during the time we

lived in that poor neighbourhood in which
strangers played a part. So far as my
outer life was concerned, it was utterly
devoid of colour.

c 2

There was but little difference in this
respect when we removed to Rosemullion,
an old-fashioned, straggling mansion on
the outskirts of Rochester, surrounded by-stone
walls, and secluded from public view
by thick clusters of trees. We made no
friends, we kept no company. Within half
a hundred yards of the great house was
a cottage of six rooms, very pretty, embosomed
in shrubs and flowers. After a
time this cottage became my real home.
I was allowed to do pretty much as I
liked, within certain unexpressed limitations

through which, it appears, I did not break.
Before I inhabited this cottage, I spoke, of
course, to my father on the subject.

'' You have taken a fancy to it, Gabriel ? "
he said.

** A great fancy," I said ; " I wish it were
mine."

You may consider it yours," he said.

I thanked him, and immediately removed
my books and papers into it. In a very
short time it was ready for occupation,
and I took possession of it. I wrote and
studied in it, mused in it, slept in it, and
lived therein a life of much seclusion. It
suited my humour ; I was fond of privacy,
and I could enjoy it there to my heart's
content.

Heaven knows there was no inducement
in the great house to render it attractive
to me. It was invariably quiet and sad.

Whatever else our coming into possession
of wealth did for us, it did not improve
my mother's health. She became more
than ever a confirmed invalid, and frequently
kept her chamber for weeks together,
during which times I was not
permitted to see her. Mrs. Fortress remained
with us in attendance on my
mother, and exercised absolute control not
only over her, but over the whole establishment.
My father did not trouble himself
in domestic matters ; he left everything
to Mrs. Fortress. Our only regular visitor
was a doctor, who occasionally, after seeing
my mother, would come and chat with mea
while. He was a practitioner of fair
ability, but apart from his profession, had
little in him to attract me to him. I had
the knack of gauging men, though I mixed
but little with them ; I had also the gift of

J

drawing them out, as it were, and of extracting
any special knowledge in which
they were proficient. Using the doctor in
this way, quite unsuspiciously, I am sure,
to himself, I gained something from conversing
with him ; but had his visits to me
not been few and far between, I should
have found a means of avoiding them. I
had already developed a certain masterfulness
of spirit, and judged and decided
matters for myself. There was, however
one exception, the intercourse between my
mother and myself. In this I did not
guide, but was guided. When the periods
of seclusion of which I have spoken were
over, Mrs. Fortress would come to me and
say, '' Your mother will see you now," and
would conduct me to her presence. Only
the slightest references to her illness were
permitted. There were in our small family

unwritten laws which were never transgressed.
I have no remembrance of the
manner in which they were made known
to me, but known they were, and obeyed
as though they had been writ in letters of
steel, and no thought of rebelling against
them entered my mind. The utmost I was
allowed to say was,

"You have been ill, mother?"

Yes, Gabriel," she would reply, '' I have
been ill."

'' You are better now, mother ? "

*' Yes, I am better now."

That was all.

Mrs. Fortress would stand in silence by
the bedside. She ruled chiefly by looks.
What peculiar duties were attached to her
service I know not, but there cannot be a
doubt that she performed them faithfully.
I neither liked nor disliked her, but she

compelled me to respect her. In her outward
bearing she was more like a machine
than a human being. Sometimes in thinking
of her I recalled words which had been
applied to me by the man who had accompanied
me to purchase the crutch for the
lame girl. " There are depths in you,
young sir." There must be depths in
every human creature — a hidden life pulsing
beneath the one revealed to the world.
What depths were hidden in Mrs. Fortress's'
nature ? Had she relatives in some faraway
corner, of whom she thought with
affection ? Had she an ambition, an aspiration
? Was she working to some coveted
end ? Had she an idea which was not
bounded by the walls of my mother's sickroom
? Did she love anything in all the
wide world ? Did she fear anything ? Was
she capable of an act of devotion and self-sacrifice

? Impossible to discover In one
so stolid and impassive.

I saw her one day during a great storm
standing in the porch of the principal
entrance, watching with calm eyes the lightning
playing among the trees. She gazed
straight and clear before her ; there was
not a sign of blenching. Loud peals of
thunder broke over the district ; she made
no movement. I could not but admire
her, for I myself loved to watch a great
storm, and took delight in witnessing a
conflict of the elements.

You enjoy it," I said, going to her
side.

She gazed at me, and did not speak.
She was evidently surprised at being addressed
on any but a domestic subject. I
felt an inward sense of satisfaction, which
I did not allow to appear in my face.

To have surprised a being so cold and
impassive was, in its way, an achievement.


"I have heard," I continued, 'that most
persons are afraid of a storm such as this."

'* They are cowards," she said. '* What is
there to be afraid of ? "

'' That is what I think. You must be
brave."

Nothing frightens me. There are worse
storms." ^

*' Oh, yes," I acquiesced. '* There was
one last year. It struck down hundreds of
trees."

I don't mean storms of that kind."

I thought a moment. "If not in nature,
then," I said, " in human life ? " She did not
reply ; she had already said more than she
intended. What came next from me, in the
form of a question, was entirely unpremeditated

; it escaped from me unaware. '^ Do
you believe In a future world ? "

'' It does not trouble me," she said ; and
she walked into the house, and cast not a
look behind.

This portion of my life, when I was growing
from childhood to manhood, is quite
clear to me. The change in my parents'
circumstances afforded me advantages for
study which I might not otherwise have
enjoyed. I was not sent to a private or
public school ; my education was conducted
at home by private tutors, with whom no
opportunities offered of becoming intimate.
Indeed, it appeared to me that they were
too frequently and unnecessarily changed,
but I cannot say whether this was from design
on my father's part, or because my tutors
found their duties distasteful. I think they
had no reason to complain of me on the score

of attention ; I was too fond of learning to
close the windows of the mind which they
assisted me to open. Perhaps the peculiar
rules of our household weighed upon them.
We appeared to be cut off from our species,
to lead a life apart from theirs. Ordinary-amusements
and pleasures found no place
in Rosemullion. Newspapers and the current
literature of the day were not admitted
into our home. Although we were in the
midst of busy millions, although a feverish,'
restless life was throbbing all around us,
we took no share in it, and seemed to have
no interests in common with our fellow-creatures.
There was a war which shook
the world. Great dynasties were at stake,
parliaments were hastily summoned, thousands
of men were marching to an untimely death,
millions of money were expended, the
avenues of cities were thronged with excited

crowds, the history of the world was stained
with blood, battlefields were charged with
sobs and cries of agony, red - hot demagogues
fumed and foamed, drums beat,
trumpets sounded, gay music, to cast a false
sweetness on death, was played through day
and night, heroes were made, poets wrote
stanzas and immortalised themselves, the
whole world was in convulsion. It touched
us not. Our sympathies, desires, and
aspirations were centred in our own little
world. The stone walls which surrounded
the estate upon which our house and cottage
were built were eight feet in height. Our
servants performed their duties almost noiselessly
; our gardener was deaf and dumb.
These conditions of existence could not
have been accidental ; they must have been
carefully planned and considered. For what
reason ? We were rich enough to pay for

colour and variety, and yet they were not
allowed to enter our lives. We were thrown
entirely upon ourselves and our own narrow
resources.

I cannot truthfully say that I was unhappy
during those years. We can scarcely miss
that to which we are not accustomed, and
I have learned since that the world is too
full of wants for happiness. My passion for
books grew more profound and engrossing ;
I grew passionately endeared to solitude.
There were some fine woods near our house,
and I was in the habit of wandering in
them by day and night. If in the daylight
I heard the sound of voices, or was
made aware of the proximity of human
creatures, I wandered in the opposite
direction. It was known that I frequented
the woods by day, but my nocturnal ramblings
were secretly indulged in. Even my

father was not aware that the nights which
should have been devoted to repose were
spent in the open. When all in the house
were sleeping, I would steal out and wander
for hours in darkness, which had no terrors
for me. Shadows took comprehensive shapes
comprehensive to me, but perhaps not to
all men — and that some were weird and
monstrous, like nothing that moved and lived
upon the sunlit earth, suited my mood and
nature. I did not ask myself whether they
were or were not creatures of my imagination.
I accepted them without question, and I
humoured and made sport of them ; spoke
to them, taunted them ; dared them to
action ; asked them their mission ; and
walked among them fearlessly. I loved the
supernatural in book and fancy, and on rare
occasions, when I was in a state of spiritual
exaltation, a vague belief would steal upon

me that I should one day possess the power
of piercing the veil which shuts off the
unseen from mortal eyes. In winter the
snow - robed trees, standing like white
sentinels in a white eternal night, possessed
for me an irresistible fascination. I saw
wondrous scenes and pictures. The woods
were filled with myriad eyes, gleaming with
love, with hate, with joy, with despair ;
grotesque creatures inhabited every cranny ;
white spirits lurked among the silvered
branches ; the frosty stars looked down upon
me as upon one of their kindred, and I
looked up at them, and cried in spiritual
ecstasy, *' Only to you and to me are these
things visible ! "

Thus I lived, as it were, the inner life, and
became familiar with hidden beauties and
hidden horrors.

Was I, then, so wrapped up in my own

VOL. I. D

narrow self that I shut my eyes and ears to
the pulsing of other human life ? Not
entirely. There were occasions when I
associated with my fellows.

Thus, on a stormy night in September,
when the rain came down in torrents, I
heard the sounds of loud entreaty proceeding
from outside the stone walls of the estate.
Had it not been that my sense of hearing
was very acute, and that those who were
appealing were screaming at the top of their
voices, it would have been impossible forme
to hear them. The wind assisted them
and me ; it blew in the direction of the
chamber in which I sat reading by the light
of a lamp.

'* Some people in distress," I thought, and
proceeded with my reading.

The sounds of entreaty continued, grew
louder, and more deeply imploring.

** They will scream themselves hoarse
presently," I thought. *swell, I am comfortable
enough."

'swell said, Gabriel, well said!"

Who spoke ? Nothing human, for I was
the only person awake in house and cottage.
Although I was convinced of this I looked
around, not in fear but curiosity. Nothing
living was in view.

'ris it well?" I asked aloud. 'the
sounds proceed most likely from poor persons
who are benighted, and who have not a roof
to cover them."

'^ That is their affair," said the voice.

The storm is terrible," I continued.
They may perish in it."

The answer came. " They meet their
fate. Leave them to their doom. In the
morning their sufferings will be over."

"And I shall live," I said, "guilty and

D 2

self-condemned. There Is no such thing as
fate. Human will can save or destroy.
They are human, and I will go to
them."

The rain and the wind almost blinded meas
I walked from my cottage to the gates.
All the while the voices continued to beseech
despairingly and bitterly, calling upon
man, calling upon God.

I heard one say, '' Hush ! There's somebody
coming."

The next moment I opened the gates.

**Ah, master," cried a woman, "for the
love of God tell us the way to Purvis's
huts ! Jump down, Jim ; you've pretty nigh
broke my blade-bone In."

A tall man jumped from the woman's
shoulders to the ground. It was from that
elevated position he had seen the light in
my room.

I don't know Purvis or his huts," I said.
What are you ? "

Hoppers, master. We're bound for
Purvis's gardens, and we thought we should
get to the sleeping huts before night set
in ; but we missed our way, and have been
tramping through the rain for I don't know
how many hours. I'm soaked through and
through, and am ready to drop."

Why did you not stop at an inn ? " I^
asked.

None of that ! " growled the man, in a
threatening tone.

Be quiet, Jim ! " said the woman. " Why
didn't we stop at an inn, master ? Because
in them places they don't give you nothing for
nothing, and that's about as much as we've
got to offer. We're dead broke, master."

"We're never nothing else," growled the
man.

Can you help us, master ? " asked the
woman.

*task him if he will," growled the man,
*' don't ask him if he can."

"Leave it to me, Jim. You're always
a-putting your foot into it. Will you,
master, will you ? "

"Who is that crying?"

"One of the children, master."

One of them ! How many have you ? "

Five, master."

Curse 'em ! " growled the man.

"Shut up, Jim! The gentleman's help
us for the sake of the young 'uns, won't
you, sir ? They're sopping wet, master, and
a-dying of hunger."

** If I allow you to occupy my room," I
said, "and give you food and a fire, will
you go away quietly when the sun rises ? "

There, Jim ; didn't I tell you ? We're in

luck. Go away quiet when the sun rises,
master ? Yes, master, yes. Hope I may
never see daylight again if we don't ! "

Come in," I said. '' Follow me, and
make as little noise as possible."

They followed me quietly to my room.
Their eyes dilated when they saw the fire,
upon which I threw a fresh supply of coals.

God bless you, sir ! " said the woman,
drawing the children to the fire, before
which the man was already crouching.

True enough, there were seven of them.
Man, woman, and five children, the youngest
a baby, the eldest not more than seven
years of age. A gruesome lot. Starving,
cunning, in rags ; but there was a soft
light in the woman's eyes ; she was grateful
for the warmth and the prospect of
food. The man's eyes were watching me
greedily.

** Where is it, master ? "

Where is what ?"

The grub you promised us."

You shall have it presently."

I noticed that the children's clothes
were drying on them, and I suggested to
the woman that she should take them
off.

'* I've nothing to wrap 'em in, master,"
she said.

I went into my bedroom, and brought
back sheets and blankets, which I gave to
the woman. She took them in silence,
and carried out my suggestion. I then
made two or three journeys to the larder,
and brought up the food I found there,
bread, butter, meat, and the remains of a
pie. When I came up for the last time I
saw the man standing, looking round the
room.

He ain't took nothing, master," said
the woman, '' and shan't."

I nodded, and the man resumed his recumbent
position before the fire. I handed
them the food, and they devoured it wolfishly.
They ate more Hke animals than
human beings.

'* Can't you treat us to a mug of beer,
master ? " asked the man.

'' I have no beer," I replied. '' I think'
I can find some tea, if you would like to
have it."

*' It's the best thing you could give us,
master," said the woman, " and we shall
be thankful for it."

** It's better than nothing," said the man,
and was pleased to confess, after he had
disposed of a couple of cups — which he
emptied down his throat rather than drank
that I might have offered him something

worse. When they had eaten their fill
they lay down to rest, and in less than
three minutes the whole party were fast
asleep. '' Truly," I thought, as I gazed
upon them, '' nature has its compensations !"
They went away, as they had promised,
at sunrise, and when I gave the woman
a few silver coins, she said gratefully,

'' Thank you, master. We're right for
four good days, Jim."

I watched them from the gates. They
had with them the remains of the food,
and were eating It as they walked, and
talking In gay tones. I experienced a sensation
of pleasure. The world was not
devoid of sweetness.

Thus my life went on until I grew to
manhood, and then two grave events befell,
following close upon each other's heels.
First, my father died. He was absent
from home at the time, and we had had
no forewarning of the loss. I do not know
whether his errand when he left us, to be
away, he said, for four or five weeks, was
one of pleasure or business. Quite
suddenly, before the time had elapsed, I
was summoned to my mother's room by
Mrs. Fortress.

'your mother has the most serious news

to impart to you," said Mrs. Fortress, " and
I think it well to warn you not to excite
her."

I had not seen my mother for several days,
and I inquired of Mrs. Fortress as to the
state of her health.

'' She is still unwell," said Mrs. Fortress,
'' and very weak. I am afraid of the consequences
of the shock she has received
this morning."

*' No one has visited us," I observed.
She can have been told nothing."

The news came by post," said Mrs.
Fortress.

'ein a letter from my father?" I asked.

"Your father did not write," said Mrs.
Fortress.

There was a significance in her tone,
usually so cold and impassive, which
attracted my attention.

But the news concerns my father."

Yes, It concerns your father."

*' He is ill."

** He has been seriously ill. You will
learn all from your mother."

Before I entered my mother's chamber
I divined the truth.

*' You sent for me, mother," I said.

** Yes, Gabriel," she replied. '' Sit hereby
my side."

I obeyed her, and there was a long silence
in the room.

*' Kiss me, Gabriel."

I kissed her, somewhat in wonder. It is
the plain truth that we had grown to be
almost strangers to each other.

*' Has Mrs. Fortress told you ? " she asked.

She has told me nothing definite," I
replied, ** except that you have news of my
father, and that he is ill."

** His illness is at an end," said my mother.
** Can you not guess, Gabriel ? "

*' Yes, mother," I said, '' I think I know."

** It is very sudden, Gabriel. When he
went away he was in good health."

She gave me the letter she had received,
and I read it without remark. It was from
one who was a stranger to us, and was
addressed from Wales. The writer said that
my father was his friend — which surprised
me, as I had never heard my father or
mother mention his name — and had died in
his house, where my father was staying
on a visit.

"He had been ailing for two or three days
past," the letter said, *' and had complained
of his head, but I did not think that anything
serious was the matter with him, or
I should have written to you at once. It
did not appear that he was alarmed ; indeed,

he said that it was only a slight attack,
and that it would soon pass away. Against
his wish we called in a doctor, who agreed
with him and us that there was no danger.
Thus there was nothing to prepare us for
the sad event the news of which it is
our painful duty to communicate to you.
He kept his room yesterday, and in the
evening said that he felt better. At ten
o'clock my wife and I wished him goodnight,
and thought he would retire at
once to rest, but from after indications
we learnt that he had not undressed, but
had sat in his arm-chair the whole of the
night. There was a bell at his elbow,
from which I heard a faint ring at five
o'clock this morning. It woke me from
my sleep, and it also aroused my wife.

That is Mr. Carew's bell,' my wife said ;

you had better go to him.' I rose

immediately, and went to his room. I found
our poor friend sitting in the arm-chair,
and I at once recognised his grave condition.
I roused the servants, and sent for
the doctor ; then I returned to your
husband, and told him what I had done.
I cannot say whether he understood me,
for he was quite speechless, but I followed
the direction of his eyes, and saw a sheet of
paper upon which he had written a few words.
They were not very legible, but I understand
from them that it was his desire that he
should be buried from Rosemullion.
We shall respect his wish, and you will
therefore be prepared for what is to follow.
Although he was speechless, and life was
surely ebbing away, he was calm and
composed. My wife and I sat with him
until the doctor arrived. Nothing could be
done for him, and at twenty minutes to

seven this morning your poor husband passed
away in peace. It would doubtless have
been a satisfaction to him could he have
spoken to us, and have imparted to us
his last wishes, but he had not the
power. Two or three times he seemed
to make an effort, and we inclined our ears
to hear what he had to say. No sound,
however, proceeded from his lips ; he
had not the strength to utter a word.
The effort over, he seemed to be resigned."

The letter contained the expression of a
sincere sympathy for our bereavement.

He died peacefully," said my mother.
All deaths are not so."

Madam ! " cried Mrs. Fortress, in a
warning tone.

Did it spring from my fancy that my
mother's remark was uttered in fear, and
was intended to bear a personal reference,

VOL. I. E

and that Mrs. Fortress's " Madam ! "
sounded like a threat ? If It were or were
not so, my mother quickly recovered herself.

"It is good to know that your father
did not suffer," she said.

'* Death is not a pleasant subject to
talk about," observed Mrs. Fortress.

What has passed between my mother
and myself is quite natural," I retorted ;
it appeared to me that her remark was
unnecessary.

'* I beg your pardon," she said, but
although her words conveyed an apology,
her voice did not.

Shortly afterwards my mother pleaded
that she was tired, and I left the room.

Upon the news of my father's death
becoming known I had two visitors, the
doctor who attended on my mother, and a
lawyer. I may mention here that these

were the only persons who, with myself,
followed my father to the grave. The
doctors visit was one of condolence, and
he indulged in the usual platitudes which,
but for the occasion, I should not have
listened to with patience. He bade me
good day with a sigh, and called into his
face an expression of dolour which I knew
was assumed for my benefit.

The lawyer's visit was upon business. .
He came to acquaint me with the particulars
of my father's Will.

*' I have the rough draft in my office," he
said ; " the Will itself we shall doubtless find
among your father's private papers. It was
his habit, when he intended to be absent
from home for any length of time, to leave
the key of his safe in my keeping, I have
brought it with me."

We went together to my father's special

E 2

LIBRARY
UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS
AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

room, the room in which he wrote and
transacted his private business, and which
was always kept locked. No person, unbidden,
was allowed to enter it but himself.
Although I had now been living at Rose-million
for many years I had been but once
in this apartment, and then I took no particular
notice of it. The key of the room
had been found in his portmanteau, which
he had taken with him to Wales, and had
been delivered up to me with his other effects.

It was plainly furnished. There were two
chairs, a couch, and a writing-table — nothing
more ; not a picture, not an ornament, not a
single evidence of luxury. The walls were
hung with old tapestry on which battle
scenes were worked.

'' Rosemullion is not a modern building,"
said the lawyer, '' but perhaps you are already
familiar with its history, being a student."

I said, In reply, that I was not aware that
Rosemullion was of ancient origin, nor that
it had a history.

** Did your father never speak to you on
the subject ? " asked the lawyer.

Never," I replied.

Perhaps it was not of much interest to
him," remarked the lawyer. ** The house
belonged to a great family once, who owned
vast tracts of land hereabout. They ruled •
here for many generations, I believe, until,
as Is the case with numberless others who
carried it with a high hand in times gone by,
they lost their place in the world. If the
truth were known we should learn — to judge
from my experiences, and supposing them
to be worth anything — that there was but
one cause why they were wiped out. Spendthrift
father, spendthrift heir, followed by another,
and perhaps by another ; land parted

with piecemeal, mortgaged and sold, till heirlooms
and stone-walls are called upon, and
the wreck is complete. It is an old story,
and is being played out now by many inheritors
of ancient names."

The chairs and couch in the room," I
said, '^ are modern. Not so the writing-table."


It was made of stout oak, and bore signs
of long service. I ts massive legs were wonderfully
carved, and were fixed deep in the
oaken flooring. The lawyer's remarks had
given the place an interest in my eyes, and
I gazed around with lively curiosity.

'* If these walls could speak," I said, '' they
would be able to tell strange stories."

'' Many of which," said the lawyer, with
a dry cough, "are better unrevealed. It is
quite as well that dumb memorials cannot
rise in witness against us."

*' So that we are no better off than our
forefathers."

"And no worse," said the lawyer, sententiously.
'' We are much of a muchness,
ancients and moderns. I had no idea till
to-day how solid these walls really were."

They were, indeed, of massive thickness,
fit depositories of mighty secrets. I lifted
the tapestry to examine them, and observed
a steel plate fixed in the portion I had bared
was searching in vain for a keyhole when
the lawyer said,

'' The safe your father used is not on that
side ; it is here to the right. On three
sides of the wall you will see these steel
plates fixed, and my idea is that the receptacles
were used as a hiding-place for jewels
and other treasure. In the building of this
room special ingenuity was displayed. No
one unacquainted with the secret could open

the metal doors, the design is so cunning.
There were locksmiths before Brahman. I
would defy any but an expert to discover
the means, and it would puzzle him for a
time."

They are really doors ? "
*' Yes ; you shall see for yourself."
'' How did you discover the secret ? " I
asked.

*' Your father let me into it," he replied.
'' How did /le discover it ? Before he
bought this little estate I doubt if he had
ever heard the name of Rosemullion, or
knew of its existence."

That is very probable, but I cannot
enlighten you upon the point. In his conversations
with me he never referred to it.
It is not unlikely that the agents through
whom he purchased the place may have
known ; or he may have found a clue to it

after he came into possession. That, however,
is mere speculation, and is not material
to us. What is material is the Will. Observe.
Here before us is a sheet of steel,
covered with numberless small knobs with
shining round surfaces. There must be
some peculiarity about the metal that it does
not rust ; or perhaps its lustre is due to the
dryness of the air. When I say that the
knobs are numberless I am inexact. They
may be easily counted ; they are in regular
lines, and are alternately placed. From
ceiling to floor there are twenty lines, and
each line contains twenty knobs — four hundred
in all. If you pressed every one of
these four hundred knobs one after another
with your thumb, you would find only one
that would yield beneath the pressure. That
knob is in the bottom line, at the extreme
left hand corner. Kneel, and press with

your thumb, and you will find that I am
right."

I followed his instructions. I knelt, and
pressed the knob ; it yielded, and upon my
removing my thumb, it returned to its former
position.

Still," I said, as I rose from my kneeling
posture, " I see no hole in which a key can
be inserted."

'' Wait," said the lawyer. *' By pressing

on that knob you have unlocked a second at
the extreme end of the right corner in the
same line. Press it as you did the other."

I knelt and obeyed ; it yielded as the other
had done, and returned to its former position.
But there was no apparent change in the
steel door.

*' You have unlocked a third knob," said
the lawyer. " You will now have to stand
upon one of the chairs ; place it here, on the

right, and press again on the knob at the
extreme right hand. It yields. One more,
and the charm is nearly complete. Remove
the chair to the left, and repeat the operation
on the topmost knob at the extreme left
hand. Now descend. Supposing this to bethe
door of a room, where would the keyhole
be situated ? Yes, you point to the exact
spot. Press there, then, gently. What do
we see ? The keyhole revealed. The rest is
easy."

He inserted the key and turned the lock.
Massive as was the door, there was no difficulty
now in opening it. With very little
exertion on our part it swung upon its hinges.
I could not but admire the ingenuity of the
device, and I wondered at the same time
how my father could have found it out.
supposing the secret not to have been
imparted to him.

There was a space disclosed of some two
feet in depth, divided by stout oaken shelves.
On one of the shelves was a cash-box. There
was nothing else within the space. The
lawyer took out the cash-box, and brought
it to the table. It was unlocked, and the
lawyer drew from it my father's Will. I
was disappointed that it contained no other
papers. I cannot say what I expected to
discover, but I had a vague hope that I
might light upon some explanation of the
mystery which had reigned in our home
from my earliest remembrance. However,
I made no remark on the subject to the
lawyer.

The Will was read in my mother's presence,
the only other person in attendance, besides
my mother, the lawyer, and myself, being
Mrs. Fortress. It was very simple ; the entire
property was bequeathed to my mother ;

during her lifetime I was to reside at Rose-million,
and there was otherwise no provision
made for me ; but at her death, with
the exception of a legacy to Mrs. Fortress,
'for faithful and confidential service," I
became sole heir. The only stipulation was
that Rosemulllon should not be sold.

** I hope, Gabriel," said my mother, " that
you are not dissatisfied."

I replied that I was contented with the
disposition my father had made of his
property.

You can have what money you want,"
she said.

I shall want very little," I said.

You will remain here, Gabriel ?"

These words which, in her expression of
them, were both a question and an entreaty,
opened up a new train of thought. I set it
aside a while, and said to my mother,

** Is it your wish ? "

Yes, Gabriel, while I live."

'' I will obey you, mother."

Gabriel," she said, " bend your head."
Mrs. Fortress came forward as if with the
intention of interposing, but I motioned her
away, and she retired in silence, but kept
her eyes fixed upon us. "You bear no ill-will
towards me.'^" my mother whispered.
*' You do not hate me ? "

No, mother," I replied, in a tone as low
as her own. 'what cause have I for ill-will
or hatred ? It would be monstrous."

'' Yes," she muttered, '* it would be monstrous,
monstrous ! "

And she turned from me, and lay with
her face to the wall. Her form was shaken
with sobs.

Mrs. Fortress beckoned to me and I
followed her to the door.

'* I will speak to you outside," she said.

We stood in the passage, the door of my
mother's bedroom being closed upon us.
The lawyer, who had also left the room,
stood a few paces from us.

*' It comes within my sphere of duty,"
said Mrs. Fortress, " to warn you that these
scenes are dangerous to your mother. Listen."

I heard my mother crying and speaking
loudly to herself, but I could not distinguish
what she said.

Remain here a moment," said Mrs.
Fortress; "I have something more to say
to you."

She left me, and entered the bedroom,
and in a short time my mother was quiet.
Mrs. Fortress returned.

She is more composed."

You have a great power over her,
Mrs. Fortress."

No one else understands her." She
held in her hand a letter, which she offered
to me. "It was entrusted to me by your
father, and I was to give it to you in the
event of his dying away from Rosemullion,
and before your mother. Perhaps you will
read it here."

I did so. It was addressed to me, and
was very brief, its contents being simply
to the effect that Mrs. Fortress was to
hold, during my mother's lifetime, the
position she had always held in the household,
and that I was, under no consideration,
to interfere with her in the
exercise of her duties. She was, also, as
heretofore, to have the direction of the
house.

•* Are you acquainted with the contents
of this letter ? " I asked.

'* Yes ; your father, before he sealed it

gave it to me to read. He gave me at
the same time another document, addressed
to myself."

** Investing you, I suppose, with the
necessary authority." She slightly inclined
her head. " I shall not interfere with you
in any way," I said.

I am obliged to you," she said, and
then she re-entered my mother's apartment.

The lawyer and I walked to my father's
private room. I wished to assure myself
that there was nothing else in the safe
in which my father had deposited his Will,
and which we had left open. There was
nothing, not a book, not a scrap of paper,
nor article of any kind. Then in the presence
of the lawyer, I searched the writing-desk,
and found only a few unimportant
memoranda and letters. My unsatisfactory
search at an end, I remarked to the lawyer

VOL. I. F

that I supposed nothing remained to be
done.

** Except to lock the safe," he said.

'how is that accomplished ? "

*' You have merely to reverse the process
by which you opened it. I have
seldom seen a more admirable and simple
piece of mechanism."

I followed his instructions, and let the
tapestry fall over the steel plate. Then
the lawyer, saying that he would attend
to the necessary formalities with respect
to the Will, bade me good-day.

When I told my mother that I was
contented with the disposition my father
had made of the property I spoke the
truth, but I did not intend to imply that
I was contented with the position in
which I found myself after my father's
death. Not with respect to money — that
was the last of my thoughts ; indeed, my
mother placed at my disposal more than
sufficient funds ; but that I, who had by
this time grown to manhood, should be
still confined in leading strings, hurt and
galled me. I chafed inwardly at the ref

2

strain, and it will be readily understood
that my feelings on this matter did not
bring my mother and me closer to each
other. I did not, however, give expression
to them ; I schooled myself into a certain
philosophical resignation, and took refuge
in my books and studies.

Wide as had always been the breach —
I can find no other word to express the
attitude we held towards each other —
between Mrs. Fortress and myself, it grew
wider as time progressed. We seldom
addressed a word to each other. To do
her justice she seemed to desire a more
familiar intercourse as little as I did. Her
demeanour was consistently respectful, and
she did not exercise her authority obtrusively
or offensively. Everything went
on in the house as usual. My wants were
attended to with regularity, and I may

even say that they were anticipated. To
all outward appearance I had nothing
whatever to complain of, but the independence
of spirit which develops with
our manhood, the consciousness that weare
strong enough to depend upon ourselves
and to walk alone, the growing
pride which imparts a true or false confidence
in our maturing powers — all these
were in silent rebellion within me, and
rendered me at times restless and dissatisfied.
What it might have led to is
hard to say, but the difficulty was solved
without action on my part. Within twelvemonths
of my father's death I was a freeman,
free to go whither I would, to choose
my own mode of life, to visit new lands
if I cared. The chains which had bound
me fell loose, and I was my own master.
It was in the dead of a hot summer

night, and I was sitting alone by the
window in my favourite room. The sultry
air scarcely stirred the curtains, and I saw
in the sky the signs of a coming storm. I
hoped it would burst soon ; I knew that
I should welcome with gratitude the rain
and the cooler air. Such sweet, fresh
moments, when an oppressively hot day
has drawn to its close, may be accepted —
with a certain extravagance of metaphor,
I admit — as Nature's purification of sin.

All was still and quiet ; only shadows
lived and moved about. Midnight struck.
That hour to me was always fraught with
mysterious significance.

From where I sat I could see the house
in which my mother lay. It had happened
on that day, as I strolled through the
woods, that I had been witness of the
love which a mother had for her child.

The child was young, the mother was middle-aged,
and not pretty, but when she looked
at her child, and held out her arms to
receive it, as it ran laughing towards her
with its fair hair tumbled about its head,
her plain face became glorified. Its
spiritual beauty smote me with pain ;
the child's glad voice made me
tremble. Some dim sense of what had
never been mine forced itself into my
soul.

I had the power — which I had no doubt
unconsciously cultivated — of raising pictures
in the air, and I called up now this picture
of the mother and her child. " Are all
children like that," I thought, " and are all
mothers — except me and mine?" If so, I
had been robbed.

The door of the great house slowly
opened, and the form of a woman stepped

forth. It walked in my direction, and
stopped beneath my window.

*' Are you up there, Master Gabriel ? "

It was Mrs. Fortress who spoke.

'eyes, I am here''

'your mother wishes to see you."

I went down immediately, and joined
Mrs. Fortress.

Did she send you for me ? "

Yes, or I should not be here."

She is very ill ? "

She is not well."

The grudging words angered me, and I
motioned the woman to precede me to the
house. She led me to my mother's bedside.


I had never been allowed so free an
intercourse with my mother as upon this
occasion. Mrs. Fortress did not leave the
room, but she retired behind the curtains

of the bed, and did not Interrupt our conversation.


'* You are ill, mother ? "

** I am dying, Gabriel."

I was prepared for it, and I had expected
to see in her some sign of the
shadow of death. When the dread visitant
stands by the side of a mortal, there should
be some indication of its presence. Here
there was none. My mother s face retained
the wild beauty which had ever distinguished
it. All that I noted was that her
eyes occasionally wandered around, with a
look in them which expressed a kind of
fear and pity for herself.

** You speak of dying, mother," I said.
I hope you will live for many years yet."

** Why do you hope it ? " she asked.
Has my life given you joy — has it
sweetened the currents of yours 1 "

There was a strange wistfulness in her
voice, a note of wailing against an inexorable
fate. Her words brought before me
again the picture of the mother and her
child I had seen that day in the woods.
Joy ! Sweetness ! No, my mother had
even me but little of these. It was so
dim as to be scarcely a memory that when
I was a little babe she would press me
tenderly to her bosom, would sing to me,
would coo over me, as must surely be the
fashion of loving mothers with their offspring.
It is with no idea of casting
reproach upon her that I say she
bequeathed to me no legacy of motherly
tenderness.

We conversed for nearly an hour. Our
conversation was intermittent ; there were
long pauses in it, and wanderings from one
subject to another. This was occasioned by

my mother's condition ; it was not possible
for her to keep her mind upon one theme,
and to exhaust it.

*' You looked among your father's papers,
Gabriel ? "

*' Yes, mother."

'* What did you find ? " She seemed to
shrink from me as she asked this question.

Only his Will, and a few unimportant
papers." •

Nothing else ? "

'* Nothing."

Gabriel," she said, presently, ** I wish
you to promise me that you will make,
in years to come, a faithful record of the
circumstances of your life, and of your
secret thoughts and promptings." She
paused, and when she spoke again appeared
to lose sight of the promise she
wished to exact from me. 'you are sure

your father left no special papers for you
to read after his death ? "

*' I found none," I said, much moved
at this iteration of a mystery which
was evidently weighing heavily upon
her.

"Perhaps," she murmured, "he thought
silence kindest and wisest."

I strove to keep her mind upon this
theme, for I was profoundly agitated by
her strange words, but I found it impossible.
Her hands moved feebly about the coverlet,
her eyes wandered still more restlessly
around. My contingent endeavours failed
to woo her back to the subject ; her speech
became so wild and whirling that I was not
ungrateful to Mrs. Fortress when she
emerged from behind the curtains, and led
me firmly out of the room. I turned on
the threshold to look at my mother ; her

face was towards me, but she did not
recognise me.

On the evening of the following day I
was walking moodily about the grounds
between the house and the cottage, thinking
of the interview, and reproaching myself
for want of feeling. Was it that I was
deficient in humanity that I did not find
myself overwhelmed with grief by the conviction
that my mother was dying ? No
thought but of her critical condition shoukl
have held place in my mind, and the weight
of my genuine sorrow should have impressed
itself upon surrounding nature. It
was not so ; my grief was trivial, artificial,
and I bitterly accused myself. But if
natural love would not come from
the prompting of my heart, I could at
least perform a duty. My mother should
not be left to draw her last breath

with not one of her kin by her
bedside.

I entered the house. In the passage
which led to my mother's room I was confronted
by Mrs. Fortress. She had heard
my footsteps, and came out to meet me.

*what do you want, Mr. Gabriel?"

'' I must see my mother."

"You cannot; It would hasten her
end."

'has she not asked for me?"

"No; if she wished to see you she
would have sent for you."

It was a truthful Indication of the position
; I had never gone unbidden to my
mother's room.

We spoke in low tones. My voice was
tremulous, Mrs. Fortress's was cold and firm.

"If not now," I said, " I must see her
tomorrow."

You shall see her," said Mrs. Fortress,
'* within the next twenty-four hours."

I passed the evening in my cottage,
trying to read. I could not fix my mind
upon the page. I indulged in weird
fancies, and once, putting out the lights,
cried :

*' If the Angel of Death is near, let him
appear ! "

There was no sign, and I sat in the
dark till I heard a tapping at my door
I opened it, and heard Mrs. Fortress's
voice.

You can see your mother*' she said.

I accompanied her to the sick room,
the bedside of my mother. She was
dead.

** It is a happy releases' Mrs. Fortress
said.

This event-which set me completely free,
caused a repetition of certain formalities.
The doctor visited me, and regaled me with
doleful words and sighs. In the course of
conversation I endeavoured to extract from
him some information as to the peculiar form
of illness from which my mother had been
so long a sufferer, but all the satisfaction I
could obtain from him was that she had
always been ** weak, very weak," and always
'slow, very low," and that she had for years
been ** gradually wasting away." She suffered
from ** sleeplessness," she suffered from

'^ nerves," her pulse was too quick, her heart
was too slow, and so on, and so on. His
speech was full of feeble medical platitudes,
and threw no light whatever upon the
subject.

** In such cases," he said, ** all we can dois
to sustain, to prescribe strengthening
things, to stimulate, to invigorate, to give
tone to the constitution. I have remarked
many times that the poor lady might go off
at any moment. She had the best of nurses,
the best of nurses ! Mrs. Fortress is a most
exemplary woman. Between you and me

she understood your mother's ailments

almost as well as I did."

"If she did not understand them a great

deal better," I thought, " she must have

known very little indeed."

In my conversations with the lawyer Mrs.

Fortress's name also cropped up.

VOL. I. G

A most remarkable woman," he said,
*' strong-minded, self-willed, with iron nerves,
and at the same time exceedingly conscientious
and attentive to her duties. Your
lamented father entertained the highest
opinion of her, and always mentioned her
name with respect. The kind of woman
that ought to have been born a man. Very
tenacious, very reserved — a very rare specimen
indeed. Altogether an exception. By
the way, I saw her a few minutes ago, and
she asked me to inform you that she did not
consider she had any longer authority in the
house, and that she would soon be leaving."

At my desire the lawyer undertook fora
while the supervision of affairs, and sent a
married couple to Rosemullion to attend to
domestic matters.

Three days after my mother's funeral
Mrs. Fortress came to wish me good-bye.

Although there had ever been a barrier
between us I could not fail to recognise that
she had faithfully performed her duties, and
I invited her to sit down. She took a seat,
and waited for me to speak. She was wonderfully
composed and self-possessed, and
had such perfect control over herself that I
believe she would have sat there in silence
for hours had I not been the first to speak.

'you are going away for good, Mrs.
Fortress ? " I said. «.

*' Yes, sir," she answered, ** for good."

It was the first time she had ever called me
sir," and I understood it to be a recognition
of my position as Master of Rosemullion.

** Do you intend to seek another service ? "
I asked.

No, sir ; it is not likely I shall enter
service again. You are aware that your
father was good enough to provide for me."

G

"Yes, and I am pleased that he did so.
Had he forgotten, I should have been glad
to acknowledge in a fitting way your long
service in our family."
'you are very kind, sir."
Where do you go to from here ? "
'' I have a home in Cornwall, sir."
'' Indeed. I do not remember that you
have ever visited it."

It is many years since I saw it, sir."
*' Not once, I think, since you have been
with us."

Not once, sir."

Your duties here have been onerous.
Although we are in mourning you must be
glad to be released." I pointed to her
dress ; she, like myself, was dressed in
black ; but she made no comment on my
remark. "Will you give me your address,
Mrs. Fortress ?"

'^ Willingly, sir."

She wrote it on an envelope which I placed
before her, and I put it into my pocket-book.

If I wish to communicate with you, this
will be certain to find you ? "

'* Yes, sir, quite certain."

*' Circumstances may occur," I said, '^ which
may render it necessary for me to seek
information from you."

** Respecting whom, or what, sir ? "

It is hard to say. But, perhaps respecting
my mother."

*■ I am afraid, sir, it will be useless to
communicate with me upon that subject."

'' Mrs. Fortress," I said, nettled at the
decisive tone in which she spoke, '' it occurs
ta me that during the many years you have
been with us you have been unobservant of

me.

'' You are mistaken, sir."

Outwardly unobservant, perhaps I should
have said. When you entered my father's
service I must have been a very young
child. I am now a man."

*' Yes, sir, you will be twenty-two on your
next birthday. I wish you a happy life,
whether it be a long or a short one."

And being a man, it is natural that I
should desire to know something of what has
been hidden from me."

'* You are assuming, sir, that something
has been hidden."

'' I have not been quite a machine, Mrs.
Fortress. Give me credit for at least an
average amount of intelligence. It is not
possible for me to be blind to the fact that
there has been a mystery in our family."

It is you who say so, sir, not I."

I know, and know, also, that of your
own prompting you will say little or nothing.

To what can I appeal ? To your womanly
sympathies, to your sense of justice ? Until
this moment I have been silent. As a boy
I had to submit, and latterly as a man. My
parents were living, and their lightest wish
was a law to me. But the chains are loosened
now ; they have fallen from me into my
mother's grave. Surely you cannot, in
reason or injustice, refuse to answer a few
simple questions."

Upon the subject you have referred t5,
sir, I have nothing to tell."

*' That is to say, you are determined to
tell me nothing."

She rose from her chair, and said, 'with
your permission, sir, I will wish you farewell."


No, no ; sit down again for a few minutes.
I will not detain you long, and I will endeavour
not to press unwelcome questions upon

you. In all human probability this is the
last opportunity we shall have of speaking
together ; for even supposing that at some
future time you should yourself desire to
volunteer explanations which you now withhold
from me, you will not know how to
communicate with me."

Is It your intention to leave Rose-million,
sir ? "

*' I shall make speedy arrangements to
quit It for ever. It has not been so filled
with light and love as to become endeared tome.
I shall leave It not only willingly but
with pleasure, and I shall never again set
foot In It."

'' There Is no saying what may happen in
the course of life, sir. Have you made up
your mind where you are going to live ? "

In no settled place. I shall travel."

'* Change of scene will be good for you,

sir. It is altogether the best thing you
could do."

*' Of that," I said impatiently, " I am the
best judge. My future life can be of no
interest to you. It is of the past I wish
to speak. Have you any objection to inform
me for how long you have been in my
mother's service ? "

** You were but a little over two years of
age, sir, at the time I entered it."

For nearly twenty years, then. You do
not look old, Mrs. Fortress."

'' I am forty-two, sir."

** Then you were twenty-three when you
came to us ? "

*eyes, sir."

** We were poor at the time, and were
living in common lodgings in London ?"

That is so, sir."

''My father's means were so straitened,

if my memory does not betray me, that every
shilling of our income had to be reckoned.
You did not — excuse me for the question,
Mrs. Fortress — you did not serve my parents
for love ? "

No, sir ; it was purely a matter of business
between your father and me."

You are — again I beg you to excuse me
not the kind of person to work for nothing,
or even for small wages."

'your father paid me liberally, sir'*

"And yet we were so poor that until we
came suddenly and unexpectedly into a
fortune, my father could never afford to give
me a shilling. Truly your duties must have
been no ordinary ones that you should have
been engaged under such circumstances.
It is, I suppose, useless for me to ask for an
explanation of the nature of those duties ? "

Quite useless, sir."

Will you tell me nothing, Mrs. Fortress,
that will throw light upon the dark spaces
of my life ? "

I have nothing to tell, sir."

To a man less under control than myself
this iteration of unwillingness would have
been intolerable, but I knew that nothing
was to be gained by giving way to anger.
I should have been the sufferer and the loser
by it.

** Looking down, Mrs. Fortress, upon the
dead body of my mother, you made the
remark that it was a happy release."

'* Death is to all a happy release, sir."

"A common platitude, which does not
deceive me."

** You cannot forget, sir, that your mother
was a great sufferer."

I forget very little. Mrs. Fortress, in
this interview I think you have not behaved

graciously — nay, more, that you have not
behaved with fairness or justice."

Upon that point, sir," she said composedly,
*' you may not be a competent
judge''

Her manner was so perfectly respectful
that I could not take exception to this retort.
She seemed, however, to be aware that she
was upon dangerous ground, for she rose,
and I made no further attempt to detain
her. But now it was she who lingered,
unbidden, with something on her mind of
which she desired to speak. I raised my
head, and wondered whether, of her own freewill,
she was about to satisfy my curiosity.

'' If I thought you were not angry, sir,"
she said, .rand would not take offence, I
should like to ask you a question, and if you
answer it according to my expectation, one
other in connection with it."

'' I shall not take offence'* I said, " and I
promise to exercise less reserve than you
have done."

** I thank you, sir," she said, gazing steadily
at me, so steadily, Indeed, as to cause me to
doubt whether. In a combat of will-power
between us I should be the victor. '' My
questions are very simple. Do you ever
hear the sounds of music, without being able
to account for them ? "

The question, simple as It was, startled
and for a moment almost unnerved me.
What she suggested had occured to me, at
Intervals perhaps of two or three months,
and always when I was alone, and had
worked myself Into a state of exaltation.
I do not exactly know at what period of my
life this strange experience commenced, but
my Impression is that it came to me first In
the night when I awoke from sleep, and was

lying in the dark. It had occured at those
times within the last two or three years, and
had it not been that it had already become
somewhat familiar to me in hours of sunshine
as well as in hours of darkness, I should
probably have decided that it was but the
refrain of a dream by which I was haunted.
In daylight I frequently searched for the
cause, but never with success. Lately I had
given up the search, and had argued myself
into a half belief that it was a delusion,
produced by my dwelling upon the subject,
and magnifying it into undue importance. For
the most part the mysterious strains were
faint, but very sweet and melodious ; they
seemed to come from afar off, and as I
listened to them they gradually died away
into a musical whisper, and grew fainter and
more faint till they were lost altogether.
But it had happened on two or three

occasions, instead of their dying softly away
and leaving me in a state of calm happiness,
that the sweet strains were abruptly broken
by what sounded now like a wail, now like
a suppressed shriek. This violent and, to
my senses, cruel termination of the otherwise
melodious sounds set my blood boiling
dangerously, and unreasonably infuriated
me — so much so that the power I held
over myself was engulfed in a torrent of
wild passion which I could not control. The
melodious strains were always the same, and
the air was strange to me. I had never
heard it from a visible musician.

Not to a living soul had I ever spoken
of the delusion, and that the subject should
now be introduced into our conversation, and
not introduced by me, could not but strike
me as of singular portent. As Mrs. Fortress
asked the question I heard once more the

soft spiritual strains, and I involuntarily-raised
my right hand in the act of listening ;
I hear them at the present moment as I
write, and I lay aside my pen a while, until
they shall pass away. So ! They are gone
but they will come again.

I answered Mrs. Fortress briefly, but not
without agitation.

*' Yes, I have heard such sounds as those
you mention."

You hear them now ? "

*' Yes, I hear them now. Do you.^"

My powers of imagination, sir, are less
powerful than yours," she said evasively,
and passed on to her second question. " It
is not an English air, sir?"

'* No, it is not English, so far as I am a
judge."

It comes probably," she suggested,
and I was convinced that she spoke

with premeditation, '' from a foreign
source."

Most probably," I said.

** Perhaps from the mountains in the Tyrol."

A Tyrolean air ! I seized upon the suggestion,
and accepted it as fact, though I
was quite unable to speak with authority.
But why to me, who had never been out
of England, should come this melody of the
Tyrol ? I could no more answer this
question than I could say why the impassive,
undemonstrative woman before me was, as
it were, revealing me to myself and probing
my soul to its hidden depths.

'* It may be so," I said. *' Do you seek
for any further information from me ? "

'' No, sir." But there was a slight
hesitancy in her voice which proved that
this was not the only subject in her mind
which bore upon my inner life.

VOL. I. H

'* And now," I said, " I must ask you
why you put these questions to me, and by
what means you became possessed of my
secret, mention of which has never passed
my lips ? " She shook her head, and turned
towards the door, but I imperatively called
upon her to stay. '' You cannot deal with
me upon this subject as you have upon all
others. I have a distinct right to demand
an explanation."

I can give you no explanation, sir,"
she said, with deference and respect.

'' You refuse 1 "

I must refuse," she replied firmly, and
then she bowed, and saying, 'with my
humble duty, sir," was gone.

Had I yielded to passion, had I not in
some small degree exercised wisdom, I
should have coined out of this last meeting
with Mrs. Fortress a most exquisite torture
but I schooled myself into the acceptance
of what was entirely beyond my comprehension,
and after an interval of agitated
thought I set it down to a trick, the inspiration
of which may have been derived
from unguarded words escaping me while
I slept, or while I was soliloquising — a habit
into which I had grown — and she was
watching me unobserved. It troubled me

H 2

a great deal at first, but I was successful
in diminishing instead of magnifying it, and
it was fortunate for me that I had much to
occupy my mind in other ways during the
few following weeks. My lawyer demanded
my time and attention. I was determined,
without question as to whether a favourable
market could be found for them, to dispose
of the property and securities which my
father had left, and which now were mine.
I was determined to commence a new life,
without any exact definition or idea as to
what that life was to be ; and to do this it
was necessary, according to my view, that I
should make a clearance. I was surprised
to discover that my father had made a great
number of Investments, and it was to my
advantage that they were mostly good ones.
Had I possessed both the moral and the
legal power I would have sold Rosemullion,

but my father's will was so worded that the
lawyer pointed out to me that there would
be difficulties in the way, and after listening
to his arguments I agreed to retain it as my
freehold. But I was determined not to
inhabit it, and I gave instructions that a
tenant should be sought for it, and that, if
one could not be obtained, it should remain
untenanted.

'' It had been unoccupied a great many
years," the lawyer remarked, 'when you*
father purchased it."

For any particular reason ? " I
inquired.

''No," replied the lawyer, "except that
there was a foolish idea that it was
haunted."

Whoever rents Rosemullion," I said,
must take his own ghosts with him if he
wishes for ghostly company."

"We generally do that," said the lawyer,
dryly, 'wherever we go."

There were legal requirements to be
attended to in the drawing up and signing
of deeds, but otherwise there was no
difficulty in carrying out my intention to
the letter, and at the expiration of three
months I found myself an absolutely free
and unencumbered man, with my large
fortune invested in English consols, the
fluctuations of which caused me not a
moment's uneasiness. During those three
months I lived my usual life, read, studied,
and often wandered through the adjacent
woods at night. I think that the adventure
I have elsewhere narrated of the tramps I
befriended one stormy night had awakened
my sympathies for the class, and I may say,
without vanity, that it was not the only
occasion on which my sympathies had taken

a practical shape. A little while before I
bade farewell to Rosemulllon I was wandering
through the woods an hour or so before
the rising of the sun, when I came upon a
woman sleeping on the ground. As usual,
she had a child in her arms, and moans
issued from the breasts of both the woman
and the child. It was a pitiful sight,
familiar enough in our overcrowded land.
The woman was the picture of desolation.
Suddenly, as I gazed, a mocking voice
whispered that it would be merciful to kill
her where she lay. ** Do a good deed,"
said the silent voice, •' and hasten home to
bed. No one will know." I laughed aloud,
and took from my pocket my purse, which
was well supplied with money. The woman
had an apron on. I wrapped the purse in
it, and tied it securely, so that it should not
escape her. Then I crept away, but scarcely

knew whether to be glad or sorry that I had
cheated fate once more.

A few days afterwards I turned my back
on Rosemulllon.

I had formed no definite plans ; all that I
had settled was that I would go abroad and
see the world. It was open for me, and
the flowers were blooming. Was I not
rich, and had I not already had experience
of the value of riches ?

But although I travelled far, and saw the
wonders of art and nature in foreign lands,
my habits were much the same as they
had been in England. What I enjoyed I enjoyed
in solitude ; the chance acquaintances
who offered themselves, many of them
travelling alone as I was travelling, received
no encouragement from me ; I did not
respond to their advances. In this I was
but repeating my boyish experiences when

I was living with my parents In London
attics. Truly, the child Is father to the man.
It may appear strange to those who are
fond of friendships, and who cling ardently
to them, to learn that, despite my loneliness,
I had not a dull moment. Nature was very
beautiful to my soul, Its forms and changes
most entrancing. I cared little for the
great towns and cities. The modes of
life therein, especially those which were
exemplified by the absurd lengths and
extravagances to which fashion drives Its
votaries, excited in me a very sincere contempt,
and I was amazed that people could
be so blind to the sweetest joys of existence.
I visited the theatres, but they had, for the
most part, no fascination for me. I saw
great actresses associated with buffoons, and
often themselves buffoonery ; I followed, at
first with interest, the efforts of a be-puffed

actress, who rose to the terrors and the
beauties of her part in one fine scene, and
did not consider the rest of her mimic Hfe,
as depicted on the boards, worth the trouble
of consistency ; I was present at the performance
of dramas which were absolutely
false in their action and sentiment. What
pleased me best were the short poetical
episodes, occupying less than an hour in
their representation, and in which two or
three good actors sustained and preserved
the unities in excellent style. But these
were side dishes, and only served to bring
into stronger relief the larger and grosser
fare provided for the intellectual education
of the masses. I went to the opera, and
could only enjoy it by shutting my eyes,
so many absurdities were forced upon my
sight : and as this drew unpleasant attention
upon me, I was compelled to deprive

myself of the enjoyment. I strolled into
the gambling saloons, and gazed in amazement
upon the faces of men and women in
which the lowest passions were depicted.
Human nature in those places was degraded
and belittled. '^ Is there some mysterious
hidden sweetness in this many-sided frenzy ? "
I asked myself, and I staked my money,
and endeavoured to discover it ; but the
game did not stir my pulses ; I lost or won
with indifference. I soon tired of it, and
bade adieu to the rooms, with a sigh of
compassion and contempt for the slaves who
fretted their hearts therein.

My chiefs pleasures were experienced
in small villages in mountain and valley,
where there was so little attraction for the
ordinary tourist that he seldom lingered
there. I delighted in primitiveness and
simplicity, where human baseness had the

fewest opportunities to thrive, and where
human goodness was the least Hkely to be
spoilt by publicity. It was in these places
that I came to the conclusion that the
largest amount of happiness is to be found
among small communities.

But although I was consistent, up to a
certain period, in declining all offers of
intimacy and friendship, it happened that I
was to come into contact with a man for
whom, in a short space of time, I grew to
have a very close regard. His name was
Louis, by profession a doctor, by descent a
German.

We met in the woods near Nerac, in
Gascony. I was fording a watercourse
which intersected part of the forest when
my foot slipped upon a round stone which
I had supposed was fast embedded in the
earth, but which proved to be loose. I

made a spring upon the stone, and it rolled
over, and landed me in the water. A
wetting was of no account, but when I
attempted to rise I uttered a sharp cry of
pain. I had sprained my ankle.

With difficulty I crawled from the water
to dry ground, upon which I sat, nursing my
ankle, which already was swelling ominously.
In a short time the pain became intolerable,
and I endeavoured to draw the boot from my
foot, and finding this was not possible, I cut
it away bit by bit, and then cut my stocking
loose. I experienced instant and delicious
relief. The pleasure we derive from the
relief of pain is the most exquisite of all
physical sensations. I bathed my ankle
with water from the cold stream, which
somewhat reduced the swelling, but the
relief was only temporary, for when I
endeavoured again to rise, the torture

produced by my attempt to sustain the weight
of my body upon my foot was so keen
that I fell prone to the ground in agony.
There were no trees sufficiently near by
the aid of which I might manage to walk
a short distance, and in the intervals of
relief afforded by further applications of
cold water, I ruefully contemplated my
position.

I had walked twenty miles during the day.
and I was a stranger in the locality. The
time was evening, and no person was in sight
to assist me. From inquiries I made on the
road earlier in the day I calculated that
Nerac must be at least three miles distant
from the spot upon which I lay. To crawl
that distance was impossible. I looked upward
to the sky. Heavy clouds charged with
rain, were approaching in my direction, and
the prospect before me of having to pass

the night in the woods was by no means
pleasant. I had learnt from experience that
the storms in this region were violent and
fierce ; and, moreover, I had eaten nothing
since the morning. Hunger was making
strong demands upon me — all the stronger,
as is the way of things, because of helplessness.
I called aloud, and only a very
fine echo — which I was not in the mood to
admire and appreciate — answered me. Again
and again I strove to rise, and again and
again I sank to the ground, My ankle was
getting worse, and had by this time swelled
to double its usual girth. I turned my head
in every direction, in eager quest ot a human
form, but none met my view. A squirrel
sprang out of the woods, and stopped suddenly
short at sight of me. It remained
quite still, at a distance of a few paces
gazing at me, and then it darted away,

inspiring within me an absurd envy of its active
movements. Birds, with cries both shrill
and soft, flew to their nests ; frogs croaked
near the edges of the water. Evening fell,
the sun descended ; night was my enemy,
and was eager to get at me, and soon its
darkness fell around me like a shroud. This
had ever been an enjoyment to me, but on
the present occasion it served but to aggravate
the mental disorder produced by my
sufferings. The figures I conjured up in the
gloom were the reverse of soothing, and I
found myself occasionally labouring under a
kind of delirium. One of my fancies was
so peculiar that I will recall it. I saw on
the left of me a deep cave, which as I gazed
upon it grew to an enormous size. I had
been looking in that direction only a moment
before, and had seen nothing ; the sudden
vision of this great cave in the midst of

black space was, therefore, the more surprising.
Its roof and sides resembled a
huge feathery disk, and deep back in the
recess, embedded in the furthermost wall,
were two strange-looking globes, surrounded
by spots and curved lines of the colours of
orange, brown, and soft grey. These globes
were instinct with motion, and seemed to
shrink and swell, while the coloured spots
and curves around them contracted or expanded,
in obedience to some mysterious
law. The feathery roof and walls seemed
also to contract and expand in sympathy,
and these wave-like movements made it
appear as if the cave were a living monster.
I managed to raise myself upon my elbow
for a moment, and as I did so I was terror-struck
by beholding the monster cave rise
and fly past me — in the shape of an owl that
had wandered my way in search of food.

VOL. I. I

Fortunately the storm held off a while,
but about midnight, as near as I could judge
in an interval of reason, a few heavy drops
of rain fell. I really felt as if this were to
be my last night on earth. Soon the storm
broke over the forest, and in a moment I
was drenched to the skin. This, with the
pain that was throbbing in every vein, and
the hunger that was gnawing at me,
completely exhausted me, and I became
insensible.

I was awakened by the touch of hands,
by the sound of a human voice. I languidly
opened my eyes, and saw a man bending
over me. The storm had passed away, and
the sun was just rising. I had barely strength
to note these signs, for my condition was
pitiable. The man addressed me first in
French, then in German ; but although I
could speak both languages my senses were

so dazed that I had no understanding of
them at the moment. I murmured faintly
a few words In my native tongue.

Ah," said the man, quickly and cheerfully,
answering me in my own language,
which he spoke well, but with a foreign
accent, 'you are English?"

I murmured '' Yes."

Of course," he said, " I should have
known without asking. You are faint and
exhausted. I perceive how It is. Soli
crossed the stream, and fell, and sprained
your ankle."

I nodded, dreamily and vacantly. All the
time he spoke he was busy binding my
ankle with some linen he had taken from a
leather bag which hung by a strap from his
shoulders.

'' How long have you been lying here ?
But to give me that information just now Is

not imperative. You wish to tell me.
Well ? "

I have been here at least since yesterday
perhaps longer."

That is bad, very bad ; I can judge from
the sprain that you must have been here a
great many hours. It is a very severe
sprain ; there is inflammation, great inflammation
; you will not be able to walk for
weeks. But what does that matter ? These
are the smallest ills of life. Were you
on your way to Nerac ? Do not answer
me in speech. Nod, or shake your head.
Rally your strength — for a few moments
only — so that I may know how to deal by
you. Come, you are a strong man. Compel
yourself not to swoon. Stupid that I am !
I have generally a flask with me ; but I have
forgotten it, and just when it is most needed.
It shall not occur again ; but that resolve

will not help us now, will it ? Were you
on your way to Nerac ? A nod. Yes, then.
Have you friends there ? A shake. No,
then. Travelling for pleasure ? Yes. An
English gentleman ? Yes. It is fortunate
for you, friend, that, warned by the signs
of a coming storm last night, I delayed my
return home till this morning, and that,
to prevent my people being for too long a
time uneasy about me, I took a short cut,
which is seldom used. The path is so little
frequented that you might have lain here
for another weary day. I am from Nerac ;
my home is there, and my family. Attend.
I am going to lift you upon my horse ; I
call it, and it comes to me. See, it kneels
at my bidding. We are friends, my horse
and I ; and it understands me ; it can do
anything but speak. Observe that I shorten
the left stirrup, so that your sprained foot

may find a fairly easy resting-place, and that
I slightly lengthen the right stirrup, In order
that leaning to the right, with your sound
foot firmly planted, you may throw all your
weight on that side. Now, I place my arm
under your left shoulder — thus, and I have
a firm hold of you. Do not fear ; I am
very strong, and my dear dumb brute will
keep very still. I place your arm round
my neck — thus. Clasp me as closely as
your strength will permit. That Is right —
It Is cleverly done. Now, resolve to bear a
little sharp pain for a moment, only for a
moment. Englishmen are not only proverbially
but actually brave and stout-hearted.
There — It Is accomplished, and my dumb
comrade Is ready for the journey home.
Are you comfortably placed ? Here Is my
shoulder on the right of you, to rest your
hand upon. Don't be fearful that you might

lean too hard ; I am made of iron. What a
glorious sunrise ! There is a subdued beauty
in the colours of the sky after a great
shower which is very charming. If you
can manage not to faint for a little while it
will be of assistance to us. The storm has
cooled the air ; you must feel it refreshing
to your hot skin. We will nurse you well
again, never fear. There will be a slight
fever to grapple with, in addition to the
healing of the ankle. Do not be disturbed
by doubts that you may not be in friendly
hands. I am a physician, and my name is
Louis — Doctor Louis. Nerac is a most
lovely spot. When you are well, we will
show you its beauties. You are a brave
young fellow to smile and keep your eyes
open to please your doctor. There — that is
a rabbit darting through the sunlight — and
the birds, do you hear them ? They are

singing hymns to the Creator. Yonder, high
up in the distance, winging its way to the
rosy Hght, is a skylark. ' Hail to thee,
blithe spirit ! ' It is better for me to take
you home in this way than to leave you lying
by the stream yonder, while I went to Erato
fetch assistance. You might have thought
I was never coming back, and the torture of
suspense would have been added to your
other discomforts. Then, we shall reach
Nerac a good many minutes earlier by this
means. There are times when minutes are of
serious importance. We are on an eminence,
and are about to descend the valley which
leads straight to Nerac. If you were quite
yourself you would be just able to catch a
glimpse of the roofs of the houses in our pretty
village. There are few prettier — none in my
opinion. We shall jolt a little going downhill.
Bear up bravely ; it will soon be over."

With such-like words of encouragement,
most kindly and sympathetically uttered, intones
soothing and melodious, did Doctor
Louis strive to lighten the weary way,
but long before we came to the end of
our journey everything faded from my
sight.

When I became conscious of surrounding
things I found myself in a large airy-room,
the pervading characteristics of which
were space and light. I was lying in a
bed, all the coverings of which were white ;
there were no curtains to it, and no hangings
in the apartment to mar the deliciously
cool and refreshing air which flowed in
through the open folding windows. These
windows, which stretched from ceiling to
floor, faced the foot of the bed ; my head
was almost on a level with my body, and
I could not obtain a level view of the

gardens which bloomed without. But I
had before me in the heights a delightful
perspective of flowering trees, stretching upwards
into the clouds. These clouds, of
various shades of blue and white, filled all
the spaces between the lovely network of
leaves and branches. It was like gazing
upwards instead of downwards into the
waters of a clear and placid lake. A
sense of blissful repose reigned within my
soul. I had not the least desire to move ;
so perfect and so sweet was the peace in
which I lay, as it were, embalmed, that I
felt as if I were in a celestial land. There
were trees with great clusters of red blossoms
hanging in the clouds ; a soft breeze
was playing among them, and as they
swayed gently to and fro fresh peeps of
fairyland were continually disclosed to my
contented eyes. There were nests in the

trees, and the cloud-scapes of fleecy blue and
.white were beautifully broken now and
again by the fluttering flight of birds as they
came and went. The pictures I gazed
upon, idealised and perfected by my mind's
eye, have always abided with me. It is
seldom given to man to enjoy what I
enjoyed as I lay, then and for some time
afterwards, in my white and healthful bed.
It was a foretaste of heaven.

So fearful was I that the slightest movement
might destroy the lovely pictures that
I did not even turn my head at the
sound of my bedroom door being softly
opened and closed. A light footstep
approached the bed, and I beheld a young
girl whose form and face I silently and
worshipful greeted as the fairest vision
of womanhood in her spring that ever
blessed the sight of man. Observing that

my eyes were open, she gazed at me fora
moment of two in wondering and glad
surprise, and then, with her finger at her
smiling lips, trod softly from the room as
lightly as she had entered it. I closed my
eyes, so that this fair picture, in its dress of
pale blue, with lace about the neck and
arms, might not be entirely lost to me, and
when another sound in the room caused me
to open them, in the hope that she had
returned, I saw standing at my beside -a
grave and kindly man.

*' So," he said in a quiet tone, "you are
at length in the land of conscious life. You
remember me ? "

First enlighten me," I said, and I was
surprised to hear my voice so weak and
wavering. " I am really awake ? I am
really in the land of the living?"

So far as we know," was his reply.

There are those who say this Hfe is but a
dream, and that when we yield up our
breath it is simply that our dream is
ended, and that we are awaking to reality.
For myself, I have not the least doubt
that life is life, and death death, and that
pain and joy are just what those words
are intended to convey to our understanding."

So fair and peaceful is the scene before
me," I said, "so calm was my soul when
I awoke, that it is difficult to realise that
I am in the land of the living."

You will realise it very vividly," he
said gaily, *' in an hour or two, when you
are hungry. There is nothing so convincing
as our grosser passions. You have not
answered my question. Do you remember
me :

Yes, I remember you. I had sprained
my ankle in crossing the stream that runs

through the woods, and not being able to
walk, was doomed to lie there all night
with a fine storm playing pranks upon my
helpless body. It was a wild night, and
I had wild fancies. What would have
become of me had you not providentially
come to my assistance is easy enough to
guess. I should really by this time have
been in possession of the grand secret."

When did this occur ? "

** Yesterday." ♦

'' My friend," said Doctor Louis, with a
light laugh, '' what you have so faithfully
described took place four weeks ago. If
you have any doubt of it, you have only to
pass your hand over your beard."

The statement bewildered me. Accepting
it as fact — and it was not possible forme
to doubt it — I must have lain during
those four weeks in a state of delirium.

What perplexed me was the consciousness
that I had been so well cared for by-strangers,
and that something more than a
friendly interest had been taken in me.
The evidences were around and about me.
The sweet-smelling room, the beautiful scene
through the open folding windows, the entrance
of the fair girl, the smile on whose
lips seemed to speak of innocent affection,
the presence of Doctor Louis, and the
friendliness and sympathy with which he
was conversing with me — all these might be
construed into evidences even of love. Still
it would not do to take things too much
for granted.

*' Am I in an Inn ? " I asked.

"You are in my house," replied Doctor
Louis courteously, *'my guest, in whom weare
all very much interested."

"All?"

** Myself — who should properly be mentioned
last — my wife, who is first, as she
deserves to be — and my daughter, who is
our Home Rose."

Our Home Rose ! The mere utterance
of the words conveyed a sense of spiritual
sweetness to me, who had never known the
meaning of Home.

** It pleases us to call her so," said Doctor
Louis.

The young lady," I said, in a musing
tone, '' I saw in the room shortly before
you entered, and whose appearance so
harmonised with the peace and loveliness
of the view of cloud and flower I see
from my bed, that I should not have
been surprised to hear she was spirit or
angel."

** An angel in a blue dress," said Doctor
Louis, with pleasant nods ; "but it is agree-vol.

I. K

able to me, her father, to hear you speak
so of her. She Is, as I have said, the rose
of our home. If there is an angel in our
house, it is her mother. Lauretta, as yet,
is but a child ; she has to prove herself in
life. But I ask your pardon. These details
can scarcely interest you."

They more than interest me," I said
earnestly ; " they do me good. Although
you are a physician, your friendly confidence
which I accept as a privilege — is better
than the most potent medicine you could
administer to me. Pray continue to speak
of your home and family. I beg of
you !

*' A wise doctor," said Doctor Louis,
*' and such, of course, I account myself,
occasionally humours his patient. But I
must not give you all the credit ; the theme
is agreeable to me ; it Is, indeed, closest

o

to my heart. I used to think, when Lauretta

was a Httle child, and we were deriving

an exquisite happiness from her pretty ways,

that no happier lot could be ours than that

she should always remain a child. But

that would never do, would it ? A world

inhabited by children is not in Nature's

scheme. Fit theme for a fairy story. It

behoves us, however, of necessity, to be to

some extent practical. I have no fear for

Lauretta. Children who are not violently

wrenched from their natural bent inherit

and exhibit their parents' qualities. I, we

will say, am negative. I have my opinions,

strong ones and deeply planted, but there

is no positive vice in me, so far as I am

aware, and it is pleasing to me to reflect

that I have transmitted to my child neither

moral nor physical hurt. But Lauretta's

mother possesses qualities of goodness which

K 2

proclaim her to be of a rare type of womanhood.
She is not only benevolent, she is
wise ; she is not only strong, she is tender ;
and she has taught me lessons, not in
words, but by the example of her daily
life, which have strengthened my moral
nature. You see, I am in love with my
wife — of which I am not at all ashamed,
though I am an old married man. If
Lauretta's life resemble her mother's, if she
follow in her footsteps, I shall be more
than content — I shall continue to be truly
happy. There are so many foolish, vicious
children born in the world that it is something
to be proud of to add to its millions
one who will instinctively tread in the
straight path of duty, and who, if it is
her lot to suffer, will 'suffer and be strong.'
Once more, forgive me for being so
garrulous about my household treasures ; it

is a weakness Into which it is not difficult
to lead me. A few words concerning
yourself, in explanation of what has
occurred. Learning from your own lips,
on the morning we first met In the forest
yonder, that you were a stranger, and perceiving
that you were a gentleman, I brought
you straight to my house — with no settled
intention, I must frankly own, of keeping
you here for any length of time. After
thoroughly studying your case I saw that
you would be ill for weeks, and for a great
part of that time that you would be not
exactly in your right senses. To tell you
the truth, I was puzzled, and while I was
debating what to do with you, who should
introduce herself into the matter but my
estimable wife. She can invariably tell,
by a certain puckering of my brows, when
I am in a brown study, and she inquired

what troubled me. I told her, You — yes,

you, my friend. ' He will not be able

to get about for a month I said. ' Poor

young gentleman ! ' said m)^ wife. ' And in

spite of my undoubted skill,' I continued, ' I

may not be able to save him ! ' She clasped

her hands, and the tears gathered in her

eyes. She has always a fearful of them

ready to shed for those who are in sickness

and trouble. A foolish woman, a very

foolish woman indeed. * He may die on

our hands,' I said. ' Heaven forbid ! ' she

cried. ' Heaven's forbidding it,' I sagely

remarked — occasionally I say a good thing,

my friend — ' will not save him, if I cannot.

There is healing by faith, certainly, but

this hapless gentleman is not in a condition

to bring faith to bear. I know what I

will do. I will take him to an inn, where

they will run him up a fine fat bill. His

accident shall do some one good. There
is the inn of the Three Black Crows. The
landlord is a worthy fellow, and has a
large family of round bright eyes and
small red cheeks. To be sure, his wine is
execrable, and he cannot cook a decent
meal. But what of that ? Our friend here
will care little for either, and is not likely
to complain of the quality. Yes, to the
inn of the Three Black Crows he shall
go.' My wife did not interrupt me ; she
never does ; but she kept her eyes fixed
earnestly upon my face while I was speaking,
and when I had finished, she said,
Louis, you are not in earnest.' ' Nonsense,
nonsense,' said I ; ' here, help me to carry
this troublesome gentleman to the Three
Black Crows.' 'You are not in earnest,'
she repeated, and the foolish woman smiled
at me through her tears ; * you know well

that you have made up your mind that
he shall stop here, and that I shall nurse
him, with your assistance, into health and
strength. His room is ready for him.' My
friend, It is a rule with me never to create
dissension In my home. Therefore, what
could I do ? Break through my rule, and
cause my wife sorrow ? And for you, a
stranger ? It was not to be thought of.
That Is how it has happened you have
become my guest."

'how can I thank you?" I murmured,
much moved. "How can I thank your
good wife ? "

Thank me ! " exclaimed Doctor Louis.
Have I not told you I had nothing todo
with it ? As to thanking my wife, she
is never so happy as when she Is nursing
the sick. We really ought to pay you for
the pleasure you have afforded us by

spraining your ankle in the woods, and
falling into a dangerous fever. Heavens,
how you raved ! What is the meaning of
the expression I see in your eyes ? Are
you going to rave again ? "

No ; I am wondering whether the
sounds of music I hear are created by my
imagination."

The sounds are real sounds. It is my
wife who is playing."

But the instrument ? " •

The either."

Its tones are most beautiful."

'* It is her favourite Instrument. She
has sometimes played on it while you were
lying unconscious, in the belief that its soft
tones would not be a bad medicine for
you. My daughter plays also. To conclude
my explanation. During your fever your
ankle has been attended to, and it Is now

nearly well. The sprain was so severe
that it would have confined you to your
bed without the fever, and as you were
to have it, the two evils coming together
was a piece of positive good fortune. It
saved time''

*ras I was to have it!" I exclaimed.

My friend," said Doctor Louis, " do
not forget that I am a doctor. Either
then, or now, or at some time within the
next twelve months, you would have succumbed
to the strain which you have lately
been putting upon yourself. The fever was
lying dormant in your veins, and needed
but a chance to assert itself. Whether
you are conscious of it or not, there is no
doubt that there have been severe demands
upon your nervous system. To speak
plainly, you have over-taxed yourself, and
have treated Nature unfairly. She is long-suffering,

but, push her too far, she will
turn upon you and exact the penalty. Too
late then to repent ; the mischief is done,
and all that we can do thereafter is to
patch up. Have you met with any misfortune
lately — have you lost any one who
was dear to you ?"

*' Within a short time," I said, "I have
lost both my parents."

That is sad ; but you have brothers,
sisters ? " *

** Not one ; nor, so far as I am aware, a
relative the wide world over. I am alone."

I regret to hear it, and sincerely sympathise
with you ; but you are young, and
have all your life before you. There are,
however, persons with whom you wish to
communicate, friends who will be anxious
at your long silence. Now that you are
conscious and sensible you will have letters

to write. Do not flatter yourself that you
are strong enough to write them. It will
be another fortnight, at least, before you
will be fit even for that slight exertion."

I have no letters to writes' I said,
and none to receive. I am without a
friend."

I saw him look in pity at me, and he
seemed to be surprised and disturbed.

'' I am a new experience to you," I
observed.

*' I admit it, yes," he said thoughtfully,
but we have talked enough. Sleep, and
rest."

As he uttered these words he passed his
right hand with a soothing motion across
my brows. I was disposed for sleep, and
it came to me.

The days passed as in a blissful dream.
There was always within me the same sense

of perfect repose ; there were always before
me delightful panoramas of cloudland,
moving through graceful foliage and bright
blossoms. Sometimes Lauretta's mother
came into the room, and sat by my bedside,
and spoke a few gentle words. She
was the embodiment of Peace ; her voice,
her movements, her graceful figure, formed
a harmony. I did not see Lauretta during
those days, nor was her name mentioned
again by Doctor Louis. But when her
mother was with me, and I heard the
sound of the either, I knew it was Lauretta
who was playing. The music, in the knowledge
that she was the player, produced
upon me the same impression as when her
mother played — for which I can find no
apter figure of speech than that I was
lying in a boat on the peaceful waters of
a lake, with a heavenly calm all around me.

Doctor Louis came daily, and we indulged
in conversation ; and frequently before he
left me made similar passes across my forehead,
which had the effect of producing
slumber. After a time I spoke of this,
and we conversed upon the subject. I had
read a great deal concerning mesmerism
and clairvoyance, and Doctor Louis expressed
surprise at the extent of my
information on those subjects. He said
he was glad to perceive that I was
a student, and I replied that my
chiefs pleasures had been derived from
books.

At length I was convalescent, and, for
the first time for many weeks, I enjoyed
the open air. We sat in the garden, and
I was enchanted with its beauties, which
seemed all to radiate from Lauretta. It
was she who imparted to surrounding things.

to flowers, to trees, to grassy sward and
floating cloud, the touch of subtle sweetness
which made me feel as if I had found
a heaven upon earth. On that day, for
the first time, our hands met.

She gathered fruit, and we ate it slowly.
Lauretta's mother sat nearest to me, engaged
upon a piece of embroidery. Lauretta,
waiting upon us, came and went, and my
eyes followed the slight figure wherever
she moved. When she disappeared into
the house I did not remove my eyes from
the door through which she had passed
until she emerged from it again. Once or
twice, meeting my gaze, she smiled upon
me, and I was agitated by an exquisite
joy. Doctor Louis, wearing a hat which
shaded his brows, sat at a little distance,
sometimes reading, sometimes contemplating
me with attention.

You must be glad to be well," said
Lauretta's mother.

I answered, '' No, I regret It."

Surely not," she said.

*' Indeed it is so," I replied. " I am
afraid that the happiest dream of my life
is drawing to an end."

The days must not be dreamt away,"
she said, with grave sweetness; *Mise has
duties. One's ease and pleasure — those are
not duties ; they are rewards, all the more
enjoyable when they have been worthily
earned*'

Earned in what way ? " I asked.

"In administering to others, in accomplishing
one's work In the world."

*' How to discover what one's work really
Is ? " I mused.

"That is not difficult, if one's nature is
not wedded to sloth."

'rand where," I continued, "supposing
it to be discovered, should it be properly
performed ? "

In one's nate land," she said. " He
belongs to it, and it to him."

There have been missionaries who have
done great good."

They could have done as much, perhaps
more, if they had devoted themselves to
the kindred which was closest to them."

*' Not that I have a desire to become 3.
missionary," I said. " I have not within
me the spirit of self-sacrifice. I have been
travelling for pleasure."

It is right," she said, quickly, " it is
good. Do not think I mean to reproach
you. Had I a son, and could afford it, I
would bid him travel for a year or two
before he settled down to serious labour."

*' It was my good fortune that I resolved

VOL. I. L

to see the world, for it has brought me to
this happy home."

It is happy," she said, " because it is
home."

I asked Lauretta if she would play.

In the house }'' she inquired.

No," I replied, " here, where Nature's
wondrous works are closest to us."

The zithers were brought out, and mother
and daughter played. I was not yet strong
enough to bear the tension of great excitement,
and I leant back in the easy chair
they had provided for me, and closed my
eyes. Whether I slept or not I should
not, at the time, have been able to decide,
nor for how long I lay thus, listening to
the sweet strains. Awake or asleep, I was
in a kind of dreamland, in which there was
no discordant note ; and even when I heard
the music merge into the Tyrolean air which

I had so often heard in fancy during my
residence in RosemulHon, and concerning
which Mrs. Fortress had questioned me, I
did not regard it as strange or unusual. It
was played by those to whom I had been
spiritually drawn. I recognised now the
meaning of the mysterious strains I used
to hear in the silent woods. The players
and I were one ; our lives were one, I
who had all my life scoffed at fate, suddenly
renounced my faith. Chance had not brought
us together ; it was Destiny.

L 2

As I lay in this dreamy condition I
became conscious that the music had ceased
and that the players had departed. But I
was not alone ; Doctor Louis was with
me.

These facts were made apparent by my
inner sense, for I did not attempt to open
my eyes. Indeed, without a determined
effort I should not have succeeded. A
wave of cold air passed over my eyelids ;
another ; another. This did not proceed
from an uncontrolled natural force ; Doctor
Louis had risen from his seat, and was now

standing in close proximity to me. I did
not pause to consider whether he had
moved towards me stealthily, in order not
to disturb me. I was content to accept
certain facts without inquiry as to how
they were produced. Again the wave of
cold air across my eyelids ; again ; again.

"To seal them," was the expression of
my thought. "So be it — but this learned
doctor shall not quite succeed. He is
endeavouring to magnetise me to his will,,
but my power is no less than his ; it maybe
greater. Hidden force shall meet hidden
force in friendly and amiable contest. He
will not be aware that I am resisting him,
and the advantage will be on my side. I
will play with him as one skilled in fence
plays with an apprentice. My dear doctor's
power is the product of cultivation ; he has
learnt the art he practises. To me it is

natural, born in my birth without a doubt.
What matter how transmitted ? That I am
I is the potent fact ; and being I, and of and
in the world, I am, to myself, supreme.
What to me would be the marvels of nature,
the genius of centuries, the memorials of
time from the first breath of creation, were
I not in existence ? Therefore am I, to
myself, supreme. The present lives ; the
past is at rest. The future ? A grey veil
spreads itself before me, shutting out from
my view the years of mortal life through
which I have yet to pass. But I possess a
talisman. I breathe upon the veil the form
of a rose, white and most lovely, with just a
tinge of creamy pink, and it dissolves into a
vision of flowers, amidst which I walk,
clasping a hand which, but that it is flesh
and blood, might be the hand of an angel.
It is an angel's hand — mine, and no other

man's ; mine, to gladden my hours, and to
be for ever creative of joy, of peace, of
beauty. How fair the view ! I will have no
other.

*' I am not fearful that the doctor has evil
intentions towards me ; and truly I have none
towards him. As regards our relations to
each other, spiritual and temporal, nothing is
yet fixed.

'' I see him as he stands by my side
waiting his turn. A grave, courteous, and
kindly man, whose native instinct it must 6e
to shrink from evil. Goodness and nobility
are Inherent in his nature. Not that he is
devoid of cunning. Indeed, is he not
practising it at the present moment ? But
It Is cunning which must always be used to
a just or good end. I do not unite the terms
'just' and *good,' for the reason that they
are sometimes at war with each other.

What is a blessing to one man is frequently
a curse to another. The doctor's cunning is
just now weakened by the fact that it is as
much the cunning of the heart as of the head
that he is bringing to bear upon me. Mixed
motives are rarely entirely successful. In
enterprises upon which momentous issues
hang, one dominant idea must be the supreme
guide.

** He is not inimical to me, yet is he
secretly disturbed — and I am the cause.
Well, doctor, you picked me up in the woods
and saved my life. Who, then, is the responsible
one — you or I ?

*' Between us, for sympathy or repulsion,
are a beings and an influence which soon shall
become resolved into a bridge or a chasm.
I prefer that it shall be a bridge, but it maybe
that it will not depend upon me to make
it this or that. Only, I will have my way.

No power on earth shall mar the dearest
wish of my heart.

'' What being stands between you and me,
dear doctor, to unite or sever ? Ah, the
fragrant air playing about my face, whispering
of spring, of youth, of joy ! Lying back
in my chair, with eyes fast closed, I see the
pink and white blossoms growing upwards
into the clouds, kissing heaven. I am lifted
heavenward. Delicious and most sweet !
If death bear any resemblance to this state
of beatitude, it were good to die. But* I
must live — I must live ! A heaven awaits
me in mortal life. Dear doctor, whom, unconscious
to yourself, I am dominating even
as you would dominate me, which is it to bea
bridge to join our hearts, or a chasm to
hold them apart ? The influence is Love,
the being, Lauretta. You cannot quite see
into my heart, nor can I quite see into yours,

but the secret which includes love and
Lauretta is yours for the asking. Also, for
the asking, my resolve to win both love and
her.

'' But your inquisitiveness may travel
beyond this point ; you may seek to know
too much, and I am armed to resist you.
Nothing shall you glean from me that will
be to my hurt, that will step between me
and Lauretta. You shall obtain from meno
pathognomonic sign which will enable
you to lay your finger upon the secret of my
midnight musings, and of my love for
solitude. You shall not make me a witness
against myself. True, I have heard silent
voices and have seen invisible shapes. You
would construe the bare fact to my disadvantage.
You would be unable to understand
that they are my slaves and have no
power over me. All the dark thoughts they

have suggested, all the tempting and instigation,
will presently be slain by love, and
will fall into a deep grave, to lie there forever
still and dead. I am as others are,
human ; my life, like the lives of other men,
is imperfect. The purifying influence is at
hand. I thank Thee, Creator of all the
harmonies in the wondrous world, that Thou
hast sent me Lauretta ! Now, doctor, I am
ready for you."

He spoke upon the instant.

You and I have certain beliefs in common
as that we are not entirely creatures of
chance. There is in all nature a design,
down to its minutest point."

So far as creation goes," I answered,
so far as this or that is brought into existence.
There ends the design."

Because the work is done," said Doctor
Louis.

Not so' I said. *' Rather is it because
nature's part is done. Then the true work
commences, and man is the master."

Nature can destroy."

So can man ; and, of the two, he is the
more powerful in destruction. His work
also is of a higher quality, because of the
intelligence which directs it. He can go on
or turn back. Nature creates forces which,
apart from their creator, produce certain
results — some beautiful and harmonious,
some frightful and destructive. For these
results nature is only indirectly responsible ;
the forces she creates work independently to
their own end. When a great storm is about
to burst, it is not in nature's power to will
that it shall dissolve into gentleness. Hence,
nature, all powerful up to a given point, is
powerless beyond it."

"And man ?"

'*/f all powerful. He wills and executes.
He aspires to win, and he works to win.
He desires, and he schemes to gratify his
desire." I paused, and as Doctor Louis did
not immediately reply, continued : *' If there
is not perfect accord between us in large
contentious matters upon which the wisest
scientists differ, that is no reason why there
should not be between us a perfect friendship."


** I am pleased to hear you say so ; it
means that you desire to retain my friendship."


** I earnestly desire it."

And would make a sacrifice to retain
it?"

Sacrifice of what ? "

*' Of some wish that is dear to you," replied
Doctor Louis.

That depends," I said. " In entering

upon a serious obligation it behoves a man
to be specific. Doctor, we are drifting from
the subject which occupies your mind. Concentration
would be of advantage to you in

any information you wish to obtain from

J)
me.

The flower turns towards the sun," said

Doctor Louis, after a pause, during which I

knew that he was bringing himself back to

the point he was aiming at, "and closes its

leaves in the darkness. My view has been

that man, though the highest in the scale, is

not his own master ; he is subject to the

influences which affect lower grades of life.

At the same time he has within him that

with which no other form of life is gifted —

discernment, and, as you have said, the power

to advance or recede. It sometimes happens

that an impulse, as noble as it is merciful,

arrests his foot, and he says, * No, I may

bruise that flower and turns aside. You
follow me ? "

'' Yes — but you are still generalising.
Question me more plainly upon what you
desire to know."

*' You are a stranger among us ? "

*' I was ; I do not look upon myself as a
stranger now. Here have I found peace
and fitness. Do not forget that, out of your
goodness and generosity, you have treated
me with affection."

''I do not forget it, and I pray that it
may not lead to unhappiness."
- "It is also my prayer — though you must
remember that one man often enjoys at
another man's expense*'

** You have already told me something of
yourself. Again I ask, what are you ? "

'' An English gentleman."

'your father?"

'' He was the same."

"Your mother?"

''A lady."

'' Were you educated at a public school ?"

*' No ; my studies were conducted at home
by private tutors. We lived a life of privacy,
and did not mix with the world."

'* For any particular reason ? "

"■ For none that I am aware of. It suited
my parents so to live ; it suited me also.
Since the death of my parents I have seen
much of the world, and derived but small
enjoyment from it until destiny led me to
Nerac."

Destiny ? "

It is the only word, doctor, by which
I can express myself clearly."

During your illness you gave utterance
to sentiments or ideas which impel me now
to inquire whether, in the lives of either of

your parents, there was that which would
cause an honourable man to pause before he
yields to a temptation which may draw an
innocent being to destruction ? "

I would perish rather than destroy the
flower in my path."

** You adopt my own figure of speech, but
you do not answer my question — which
proves that I have not complete power
over you. Your sense of honour will not
allow you to commit yourself to anything
distinctly untruthful. Say there is that in
your inner life which warns you that to
touch would be to wither, would you stoop
to gather the flower which it may be awaits
your bidding ? "

A glow of ineffable delight warmed my
heart. *' Do you know," I asked, '' that it
awaits me ? "

*' I know nothing absolutely. I am

VOL. I. M

striving to perform a duty. An ordinarily
wise man, foreseeing a storm, prepares for
it ; and when that storm threatens one who
is dearer to him than Hfe Itself, he redoubles
his precautions."

"As you are doing."

** As I am doing — though I am sadly
conscious that my efforts may be vain."

You are not my enemy ? "

*' On the contrary. I recognise in you
noble qualities, but there is at the same
time a mystery within you which troubles
me.

'' May you not be In error there ? "

"It is possible. I speak from inward
prompting, based upon observation and
reflection."

Dear doctor," I said, with a sense of
satisfaction at the conviction that I was
successfully probing him, " if I thought

that my touch would blast the flower you
speak of, I would fly the spot, and carry
my unhappiness with me, so that only I
should be the sufferer. But no need exists.
Nothing lies at my door of which I am
ashamed. No man, so far as I am aware,
is my enemy, and I am no man's. I have
never committed an act to another's hurt.
You speak of my inner life. Does not
every human being live two lives, and i§
there not in every life something which
man should keep to himself. Were we to
walk unmasked, we should hate and loathe
each other, and saints would be stoned to
death. We are maculate, and it is given
to no man to probe the mystery of existence.
There are pretenders, and you and
I agree upon an estimate of them. If in
private intercourse we were absolutely frank
in our confession of temptations, gross

M 2

thoughts, and uncommitted sins, it would
inspire horror. The joys of Hfe are destroyed
by seeking too far. We are herewith
all our imperfections. The wisest and
truest philosophy is to make the best of
them and of surrounding circumstances.
Therefore when I see before me a path
which leads to human happiness, I should
be mad to turn from it. Will you not
now ask questions to which I can return
explicit answers ? "

You love ? "

'eyes."

'whom?"

Lauretta."

In honour?"

"In perfect honour. So pure a being
could inspire none but a pure passion."

You would make a sacrifice to render
her happy ? "

*' I can make her happy without a
sacrifice."

But should the need arise ? "

"If I were convinced of it, I would
sacrifice my life for her. It would be
valueless to me without her ; it would be
valueless with her did not her heart respond
to the beating of mine."

'you have not spoken to her?"

Of love ? No.'^

You will not, without my consent ? "

*' I cannot promise."

*' You believe yourself worthy of her ? "

** No man can be worthy of her, but I
as much as any man."

She is young for love."

'* Those words should be addressed to
nature not to me."

Aspiring to win her, you would win her
worthily ? "

"It shall be my endeavour."

I do not say she is easily swayed, but
she is simple and confiding. She must have
time to question her heart."

What is it you demand of me ? "

** That you should not woo her hastily.
I am her father and her natural guardian.
It would not be difficult for me to keep
you and her apart."

*' Do you contemplate an act so cruel ?"

Not at the present moment seriously,
but it has suggested itself to me as the best
safeguard I could adopt to save an inexperienced
child from possible unhappiness."

She would suffer."

Less now than at some future time,
when what is at present a transient feeling
may become a faith, from which to tear her
then would be to tear her heartstrings.
You are, or would be, her lover ; I am

her father. Were you in my place and I
in yours, you would act towards me as I
am acting towards you. I repeat, you area
stranger among us ; you must give ns
time to know more of you before I can
take you by the hand and welcome you asa
son. You must give my daughter time
to know more of you before you ask her
to take the most important step in a
woman's life. It is in my power to-day to
make my conditions absolute, and I intend
to use my power.

You require a guarantee from me ? " I
said.

'eyes."

"And if I give it, will it be the means
of separating me from Lauretta ? "

No."

The fears which had begun to agitate me
vanished. What guarantee could Doctor

Louis demand which I would refuse to
give, so long as I was permitted to enjoy
Lauretta's society ?

** State what you require," I said.

I require a sacred promise from you, to
be repeated when you are in full possession
of your faculties, that, until the expiration
of twelve months from this day, you will
not seek to obtain from my daughter any
direct or indirect pledge of love by which
she will be likely to deem herself
bound."

'' On the understanding that I am a free
agent to stay in Nerac or leave it, and that
you will not, directly or indirectly, do anything
to cause Lauretta and me to be
separated, I give you the promise you
demand."

'* I am satisfied," said Doctor Louis.

"A moment," I said, a sudden vague

suspicion disturbing me ; *' there is something
forgotten."

Name it."

You will bind yourself not to use your
parental authority over Lauretta to induce
her to enter into an engagement with, or
to marry, any other man than me."

** I willingly bind myself ; my desire is
that she shall be free to choose."

Those were the last words which passed
between us on that occasion ; and soon
afterwards Doctor Louis left me to my
musings. They were not entirely of a rosy
hue. At first I was in a glow of happiness
at what it seemed to me I had learnt
from between the lines of Doctor Louis's
utterances. If he had not had good reason
to suppose that Lauretta loved me, he would
not have sought the interview. What had
been said was like a question asked and

answered, a question upon which the happiness
of my life depended. And it had
been answered in my favour. Lauretta
loved me ! What other joys did the
world contain for me ? What others were
needed ? None. Blessed with Lauretta's
love, all sources and founts of bliss were
mine. It did not immediately occur to me
that the probation of twelve months' delay
before heart was joined to heart was a
penance, or that there was danger in it.
But certain words which Doctor Louis
had uttered presently recurred to me with
ominous significance : " My desire is that
she shall be free to choose." To choose !
Were there, then, others who aspired to win
Lauretta ? The thought was torture.

To debate the matter with myself in hotblood
I felt would be unwise ; therefore I
schooled my mind to a calmer mood, and

then proceeded to review the position In
which I stood with respect to the being
who was all the world to me.

It was not to be supposed that Lauretta
had grown to womanhood without forming
friendships and acquaintances, but I had
seen nothing to lead to the belief that her
heart had responded to love's call before I
appeared. She was sweet and tender to
all, but that it was in her nature to be, and
I had allowed myself to be strangely self-deceived
if the hope and the belief were
false that in her bearing towards me there
was a deeper, sweeter tenderness than she
exhibited to others. That she was unconscious
of this was cause for stronger hope.
But did it exist, or was it simply the
outcome of my own feelings which led the
word of promise to my ear ?

To arrive at a correct conclusion It was

necessary that I should become better informed
with respect to the social habits of
Doctor Louis's family. I had been until
this day confined to a sick room, but I was
growing strong, and I had looked forward
with tranquil satisfaction to the prospect of
recovering my usual health by slow stages.
This was no longer my desire. I must
get well quickly ; I would will myself
into health and strength. I was sure that
even now I could walk unaided. By a
determined effort I rose to my feet, and
advancing three or four steps forward, stood
upright and unsupported. But I had overtaxed
myself; nature asserted her power;
I strove to retrace my steps to the chair,
staggered, and would have fallen to the
ground had it not been that a light form
glided to my side and held me up. Lauretta's
arm was round me.

"Shall I call my father?" she asked
in alarm.

*' No, no; do not speak, do not move;
call no one ; I shall be well in a moment.
I was trying my strength."

"It was wrong of you," she said, in a
tone of sweetest chiding. " Strength ! You
have none. Why, / could vanquish you ! "

"You have done so, Lauretta."

She gazed at me in innocent surprise,
and I equivocated by asking,

You are not angry at my calling you
Lauretta ? "

No, indeed," she replied ; " I should
feel strange if you called me by any other
name. Lean on me, and I will guide you
to your chair. You will not hurt me ; I
am stronger than you think."

Her touch, her voice with its note of
exquisite sympathy, made me faint with

happiness, I sank into the chair, and still
retained her hand, which she did not
withdraw from me.

Do you feel better ? "

Much better, Lauretta, thanks to your
sweet help. Remain with me a little
while."

*' Yes, I will. It was fortunate my father
sent me to you, or you might have fallen
to the ground with your rash experiment."

Your father sent you to me, Lauretta ? "

'' Yes."

This proof of confidence, after what had
passed between us, did wonders for me. A
weight was lifted from my heart, a cloud
from my eyes. I would prove myself
worthy of his confidence.

'' The colour has come back to your face,"
said Lauretta. " You are better."

*' I am almost quite well, Lauretta. I

have been so great a burden to you and your
good parents that I thought it was time to
give up my idle ways and show I was capable
of waiting upon myself."

'' It was very, very wrong of you," she
repeated. "And as wrong to say you are a
burden to us. It is almost as if you believed
we thought you were. I must tell my dear
mother to scold you."

*' No, do not tell her, Lauretta ; it might
pain her. I did not mean what I said. Let
it be a secret between us."

*'A secret!" she exclaimed, raising her
eyes to my face. '' I never had one ; but
there is no harm in this."

You have no secrets, Lauretta ? "

Not one," she replied, with guileless
frankness ; '' and I will promise that my
mother shall not chide you if you will promise
not to try to force yourself into strength.

The wisest and cleverest man cannot do that.
But perhaps you are weary of us, and wish
to run away ? "

I should be content to remain here forever,
Lauretta."

"Well, then," she said gaily, ''be patient
for a few days, and, as my dear father would
say, do not be inconsistent." She uttered
the last four words in playful imitation of her
father's voice, and I was enchanted with this
revealment of innocent lightness in her
nature. *' But I am losing sight of his
admonition."

He bade you do something ? "

** Yes ; he said you might like me to read
or play for you. Which shall I do ? "

Neither, Lauretta."

Can I do nothing ? "

Yes ; talk to me, Lauretta."

I was never tired of uttering her name.

It was the sweetest word in all the
languages.

Well, then," she said, clasping her hands
in her lap, she had gently withdrawn
the hand I held, '' what shall I talk
about ? "

'* About your friends. When I am strong,
I shall want to know them. Introduce me
to them beforehand."

** I introduce you, then," she said with
tender gravity, without losing touch of her
lighter mood, *' to everybody."

'ris everybody your friend, Lauretta ? "

'eyes, everybody — truly! and it makes me
very glad to know it."

But there are special ones, Lauretta."

Of course there are special ones. First,
my dearest."

Your parents ? "

Yes, they are the first, the best, the

VOL. I. N

dearest. It is well known ; my mother is
an angel."

** I honour them, Lauretta."

*' All do. That is why people like me ;
because I belong to them, and they tome."


*' You are loved for yourself, Lauretta."

'' No," she said, with pretty wilfulness,
because of them. Then there is Father
Daniel, a saint, my mother says ; then Eric
and Emilius — and that is all, I think, who
can be called special."

'eric and Emilius?" I said, in the form
of a question.

** Yes, they are brothers, handsome, brave,
and strong. You will like them, I am sure
you will."

Handsome, brave, and strong ! I gave
Lauretta a searching look, and she returned
it smilingly. There was no blush, no self-consciousness.

Why, then, should I feel
disturbed ? Why should Eric and Emilius
become established in my mind as barriers
to the happiness for which I yearned. I did
not dare to trust myself to ask for information
of these friends of Lauretta, so handsome,
brave, and strong — I was fearful that
my voice might betray me ; and as I could
converse on no other topic with ease, I

remained silent while Lauretta chatted on



sweetly and artlessly.

N 2

I WAS quite well ; the fever had entirely
departed, and my ankle was as strong and
sound as ever. I moved about freely, with
a keen enjoyment of life, an enjoyment intensified
by the happiness which I believed
to be in store for me. Four weeks had
passed since Lauretta had uttered the names
of Eric and Emilius, and I had seen nothing
of them. Not only had they not visited the
house, but I was convinced they were not
in the village. My jealous fears were dead.
The hopes in which I indulged were
strengthened by Doctor Louis's behaviour

towards me. There had been a short conversation
between us on the subject of what
had passed while he was endeavouring to
mesmerise me on the first day of my convalescence.
It was I who, to his manifest
relief, broached the subject.

'' I remember everything perfectly," I said,
every phase of my sensations, every word
that was spoken, every thought that occurred
to me. Although my eyes were sealed, I
saw you plainly, and it seemed to me that
I could see what was passing through your
mind."

"It is frank of you," said Doctor Louis,
to say so much. Was I in error in
supposing that you were resisting me ? "

Not entirely in error," I replied.
'' I was aware of your design, and I
strove to exercise over you, to some extent,
a power similar to that you were

exercising over me. If I did nothing else,
I gave you pause."

"Yes," he said, "you compelled me to
wait your pleasure, and now and then, instead
of being dictated to, dictated. That,
to me, was a new condition of a psychic force
at present in its infancy, but which, at
some not too distant time, will bethe
means of producing marvellous
resentments."

"What brought us into harmony," I
observed, "was the fact that the subject
was one which commanded our entire and
undivided sympathies."

My daughter."

Yes, your daughter Lauretta."

You obtained a promise from me which
was to be confirmed I infer In such a conversation
as we are holding now. I confirm
it. And you, on your part, will abide by

the engagement into which you entered with
me respecting Lauretta."

'* Assuredly."

We clasped hands, and directed our
conversation into another channel. The
agreement we had made necessitated certain
action with respect to my residence in Nerac
during the period of probation. I felt that
it would be scarcely right for me to continue
to live in the doctor's house ; even
were a closer tie not in contemplation, it
would have been indelicate on my part to
encroach upon the hospitality of these
generous friends. It was for me to make
the first move in the matter, and I did so
when we were sitting together after the

evenings meal.

I have had it for some time in my

mind," I said, '' to endeavour to express

my heartfelt thanks for all the kindness

you have shown me ; but although I am
not usually at a loss for words, I am at a
loss to carry out my wish in a fitting manner."

'rit is enough," said Lauretta's mother,
with a gentle inclination of her head.
Having said so much, there is no need
for anything more. Do not distress yourself
What has been done has been cheerfully
and willingly done, and your restoration
to health is the best return you could make
for the slight service we have been able to
render you."

There was a time," I remarked, '' when
I myself might have regarded the saving
of my life a slight service ; that was when I
deemed life of little value, when I thought
there was little in the world worth carnot
for. But it is different now ; my life is
precious to me, and the world is very
beautiful."

'* It is," said Doctor Louis, " all a
question of the liver. The world is bright or
dark according to the state of our digestions."

He often interjected these pleasant discordances,
upon which we placed their
proper value, knowing that they were introduced
chiefly for the purpose of giving
a healthy turn to the conversation. This
did not, however, detract from the wisdom
of his utterances, which were nuts with
sound kernels within. •

Therefore," I continued, smiling at the
doctor, and becoming grave immediately afterwards,
'what you have done for me is of
inestimable value, and cannot be priced.
There is only one way of showing my gratitude,
and that way lies in the future, not in
the present. It shall be my endeavour to
prove to you that your precious kindness has
not been wasted."

Lauretta's mother nodded and looked
kindly at me, and then turned her eyes of
full love upon her daughter, who was sitting
by her side. Between me and Lauretta's
mother no words had been exchanged with
reference to the dear wish of my heart, but
without being told I knew that Doctor Louis
had imparted to his wife all the particulars of
what had passed between us, and that she
was aware that I stood in the position of one
who desired to win their Home Rose for my
wife. There was a new tenderness and
solicitude in the mother's looks which deeply
moved me.

Then there is another matter," I said,
'' upon which I hope we shall be in accord.
I am mustering up courage to leave you."

'' I feared, mother," said Lauretta, and it
delighted me to note that her voice was
tremulous, *' that he was growing weary of

us. I told him so a little while since, I
think."

*' And my reply was," I said, " that I should
be content to remain here for ever ; but that
can scarcely be. I have no intention of
leaving Nerac, however."

Of course not, of course not," said Doctor
Louis ; *' the air here is so fine, so much finer
than it is anywhere else — "

** Very much finer," I said.

** And the fruit is so delicious, so much
more delicious than it is anywhere
else—"

Much more delicious," I said.

And the skies are so bright, so much
brighter than they are anywhere else — "

'much brighter."

And the flowers are so much lovelier,
and the stars are so much more brilliant — "

*' The doctor and I," I said, entering into

his mood, and addressing his wife and
daughter, ''so perfectly agree."

They smiled, but in Lauretta's smile there
was a tender wistfulness.

Then the people," continued Doctor
Louis ; " they are so much superior, so much
more refined, so much higher — "

Indeed," I said, with a touch of earnestness,
" that has been truly proved to me."

"No, no," said Doctor Louis, "I am not
to be turned from the track by sentiment. It
has been left to our young friend to discover
all honour to him — that, taking us altogether,
we in the little village of Nerac here
are a very exceptional lot. Now, I have
only to make this public to bring us an
inch nearer to the sun. The least
we can do for him is to present him with a
testimonial."

"Which he is ready to accept," I said

gaily ; ** but, doctor, you omitted to mention
one important thing."

'' What is it ? "

** My health ; it will take a considerable
time to establish it, and it cannot be established
elsewhere."

'' A poor compliment to my skill," observed
Doctor Louis, quizzically. *^Ah, I always
thought I was a pretender, but until this
moment no one has had the courage to tell
me so to my face." •

*' Be serious, Louis' said his wife.

'' I am dumb," he rejoined, with a comical
look.

I then unfolded my plan. It was my
desire to take a house in Nerac, not at too
great a distance from the house of Doctor
Louis, in which I could reside, with two or
three servants to attend to it and me. I had
seen such a house on the borders of a forest

about a mile and a half away, which appeared
to me to have been long uninhabited. The
grounds in which It was built and the gardens
by which it was surrounded had been neglected
by man, but there was much wild
beauty in them, and a little care and attention
would soon brings them into order. The
place had attracted me, and I had spent an
hour in wandering through the grounds, and
had attempted, also, to enter the house to
examine it, but the doors were locked. Attached
to the house was a cottage, which I
supposed had been the gardener's cottage.
This little dwelling was literally imbedded
In climbing wild roses, which had grown in
wonderful luxuriance upon all its walls. There
were stables also, which I judged would
afford accommodation for half a dozen horses.
In some respects the estate reminded me
of Rosemullion, which, considering the kind

of life I had passed therein, might not have
been considered an attraction ; nevertheless,
I found myself insensibly drawn towards it.
Its points of resemblance were that the house
stood alone, and could not be overlooked ;
that it was at some distance from other habitations
; and that it was on the borders of a
wood. In one respect it was pleasantly
dissimilar. No stone walls surrounded it ;
there was not even a fence ; the fine trees
around it had been so arranged by man of
nature as to form an intelligible barrier, which,
however, any person was at liberty to pass.
The gloom of Rosemullion did not, therefore,
pervade it, and, living there, I should not
feel as if I were cut off from communion with
my fellows.

I had visited it on a bright day ; the sun
was shining, the birds were singing in the
trees ; and when I visited it, and as I wandered

through the grounds, I was thinking of
Lauretta. But when, indeed, was I not
thinking of her ? She was my sun, my Hght,
my Hfe. All aspects of nature were rendered
beautiful by thought of her ; she was to me
the essence of joy ; through her, and through
her only, my heart was a garden. Through
her I discovered beauties even in nature's
sad moods ; her spiritual presence was never
absent from me. She moved by my side
when I strolled unaccompanied through the
quaint little thoroughfares of the village and
the sweet and solemn woods in the valleys of
which it lay ; alone in my chamber she was
ever with me ; she was not only life of my life,
she was my religion — I who had had no
religion, and to whom the sacred peace of
church or chapel had never come. My father
had never taken me by the hand and led me
to a place of worship ; I had read the Bible,

not as a religious study, but for the most
part as a collection of amusing, improbable
romances. There was certainly one character
in it which had deeply impressed me — the
character of Isaiah, for whose wild prophetic
life I entertained a profound admiration.
Otherwise, the book simply entertained me.
It was different now. Not that I read the
Bible in a newer light, or indeed that I read
it at all, but that, through Lauretta, I became
amenable to certain influences of a religious
nature. I sat with her in the pretty chapel
of the village in which Father Daniel officiated,
and the hushed air within the building,
and the voices of the choir of children, and
the tender, sacred music, had upon me a purifying
influence. The music was Lauretta's ;
the angel voices were Lauretta's ; the tender
peace was Lauretta's ; the priest's consoling,
compassionate admonitions were Lauretta's

VOL. I. o

What mystic thoughts of a higher future
state these matters brought dimly to my mind
were inspired by Lauretta. It was she for
whose sweet sake I gave Father Daniel
money for his poor. Through her I saw
'good in everything;" through her I inhaled
it.

The money I gave to Father Daniel was
given privately, but I did not think of laying
an Injunction of secrecy upon him, and it
became known. I was guiltless of any wish
to earn praise for my actions in that or in
any other respect, but a reward most disproportionate,
but most sweet, was bestowed
upon me by words and looks from Lauretta
and her mother.

'rit is good of you," said Lauretta's
mother.

You almost make me ashamed," I said.

"Why?" asked Lauretta's mother. "It

gladdens us. I am learning not only to know
you but to love you."

Precious were those words from her lips ;
but afterwards, when I offered my contributions
to Father Daniel I asked him not to
speak of them. I think he respected my
wish, but nevertheless I gained a reputation
for charity in Nerac which did me no harm.

To return to the conversation respecting
the house I desired to take.

It was well known to Doctor Louis and
his family, and of course to all in the village,
and one reason why it had remained for so
long a time uninhabited was that it was a
gentleman's house, and no person rich enough
had desired to become its tenant.

*' It is filled with old furniture," said
Doctor Louis, *' and a man with a large
family could be tolerably comfortable there,
no doubt. There were gay doings in ito

2

once upon a time. A nobleman inhabited it
for many years, and entertained shoals of
visitors. He was not a favourite in Nerac,
and took no pains to make himself one,
looking down upon us as somewhat too
common for intimate association ; and as we
have a pride of our own, we returned his
scornful opinion of us in kind. He died
there, and his affairs were found to be
hopelessly involved. Since then the house
has been empty. The agents, a firm of
lawyers, live a hundred miles away, but there
will be no difficulty in communicating with
them if you are really serious in wishing to
occupy it''

I am quite serious," I said.

** You will be lonely there," said Lauretta's
mother.

You must remember," I said, " that until I
came here I have lived a life of solitude'*

** Have we not cured you of that?" she
asked.

Of the desire for a Hfe of solitude ? Yes.
It is only that I am accustomed to it, and
that it is not so irksome to me as it would be
to others. But why talk of my being lonely
unless you have decided to banish me from
your society ? "

"We shall be happy to have you here
as often as you care to come," said Lauretta's
mother. " Meanwhile you will remain with
us, and we can be of assistance to you in
settling yourself Left to your own devices
in arranging matters, you would make, I am
afraid, a sad bungle of them."

It was settled so, and in a few days the
keys of the house arrived, and we all set out
together to inspect it. We found it charming,
but very musty. Some of the rooms
were spacious, some small and cosy. Of

bedrooms there were at least a dozen, all
amply furnished ; but Lauretta's mother
shook her head when she examined the
linen, and declared that it would occupy sometime
and much labour to put it in order. I
asked her to take direction of the affair, and
sh-e consented to do so. We decided which
rooms were to be locked up and which used,
and in which way the furniture was to be
disposed of. The agents, in reply to my
letter, had sent an inventory, which I would
have taken for granted, but Lauretta's mother
would not have it so, and chided me for my
easiness.

*' What would you have ? " said Doctor
Louis. "It was his misfortune to be born
a man, and what does he knows of sheets
and curtains and footstools ? "

He will not want footstools," said
Lauretta's mother.

'indeed I shall," I declared, 'rand everything
feminine. Am I to be shut up here
alone, without ever a visit from my friends ? "

*' Oh," said Lauretta's mother, "we will
come and see you if you invite us."

Therefore, footstools," said I gravely.

There was, indeed, a great deal to be
done, and it did not surprise me to discover
that Lauretta's mother was thoroughly
practical in all household matters. Lauretta
herself gave her opinion and advice, timidly
and shyly, and not a word she said was lost
upon me. Subsequently, when the work was
done and I was duly installed in my new
residence, she was delighted to see that
every hint she had given had been acted
upon.

"The first necessary thing," said Lauretta's
mother, " is to hire some one to take care of
the place and look after it while the workmen

are employed. It should be a gardener,
who could usefully employ his time, and who,
perhaps, might afterwards be permanently
engaged, if he gives satisfaction."

*' I know the very man," said Doctor
Louis. *' Martin Hartog, who is seeking
employment. A faithful fellow, and
capable."

** He has a daughter, too," said Lauretta's
mother, *' who could look after — "
** The footstools," said Doctor Louis.
** His character is excellent," said Laureate's
mother ; 'rit is a pity he is so
eccentric."

'' His eccentricity," said Doctor Louis tome,
'' consists in his having opinions. For
instance, he does not believe in kings and
queens ; he believes in the universal equality
of man. For another instance, he is supposed
to be a materialist ; yet I never heard of his

doing wrong to a fellowman, and I am sure
he would scorn to rob even the rich. For
my part, I have a respect for Martin Arrogant
so has my wife, whose only sorrow
with respect to him is that she cannot
convert him."

*' He is a conscientious man," said
Lauretta's mother, " and will faithfully
perform any duty he undertakes."

As good an epitaph," said Doctor Louts,
*' as could be graven upon any tombstone."

The next day Martin Hartog was engaged,
but when I spoke to him about his daughter
he declined to allow her to enter service.
He had always maintained her, and he hoped
to be always able to do so. She could live
with him in the gardener's cottage attached
to the house, and he promised that I should
never find her in my way. If I objected to
her living with him in the cottage he would

remain where he was, and come to his work
every morning, and if that would not do,
why, he could not accept the employment I
offered him. What particularly struck mein
him was the tender tones in which he
spoke of his daughter ; she was evidently the
treasure of his life. In the course of a day
or two, when I saw her — for Martin was
engaged upon his own conditions, which
were quite suitable to me — I was not
surprised at this, for she was a maiden of
singular beauty.

I pass over all further details with respect
to the house of which I became the tenant.
It will be sufficient to say that the work
proceeded satisfactorily, though its complete
execution occupied a longer time than I
expected. I spared no money, and insisted
upon the appointments, within and without,
being of such an order as to be worthy of the

dear friends whom I hoped to receive often
as my guests. The association between me
and the members of Doctor Louis's family-grew
closer and more binding in its intimate
relationship ; perfect confidence was established
between us, and it made me glad to
think that they regarded me almost as one
of themselves. I faithfully observed the
contract into which I had entered with
Doctor Louis ; nearly three months of the
twelve belonged to the past, and nothing had
occurred to disturb my tranquillity.

Before the end of the week I expected to
remove from Doctor Louis's house. He and
I were frequently together when he went to
visit those of his patients who lived at a
distance, and on one occasion at this period
we had arranged to ride in company to a
village situated sixteen miles from Nerac,
and on our return to dine at an inn, and

visit some caves which had just been discovered,
and which were said to contain,
among other reHcs of the past, bones and
skeletons of animals now strange to the
district.

On our way out of Nerac we met the
village postman, who gave Doctor Louis a
letter. He glanced at it, and saying "Aha
letter from Emilius," opened and read it
as we ambled along the soft forest track.

A LETTER from Emilius ! The words
seemed to burn themselves on my brain.
The tone in which they were uttered denoted
satisfaction. It was unreasonable, I knew,
to torture myself about such a trifle, but my
love for Lauretta was so absorbing that the
least thing was sufficient to prick it into
misery. I felt that I might as well be
jealous of the air that kissed her cheek as
of a man whom I had never seen, and who
had given me absolutely no cause for
jealousy. I do not attempt to justify
myself; I simply record the fact.

After reading the letter Doctor Louis put
it in his pocket, and to my great comfort
presently spoke upon the subject that occupied
my mind. Had he not done so I should
myself have managed to approach it, and In
so doing might have betrayed myself, as I
feared would be the case when Lauretta had
mentioned the names of Eric and Emilius.
The doctor commenced by asking whether in
any of our conversations he had ever referred
to two young friends of his, Eric and Emilius,
from one of whom he had just received a
letter. I answered No, but that once Laureate
had spoken of them in a tone which
invade me curious about them.

They are brothers, I believe," I observed.

*' Yes," said Doctor Louis, '' twin brothers,
who commenced life with a strange history —
which," he added, "somewhat reverses the
order of things."

'* Are they young ? " I asked.

** Within a year or two of your own age.
In all likelihood you and they will meet.
If I thought the story would interest you
I would relate it."

** It would be certain to interest me," I
said, with a successful attempt at calmness,
*' if only for the reason that Lauretta first
spoke to me of the brothers. She said they
were handsome, brave, and strong, and that
she was sure I should like them."

Did she sav so much ? " said Doctor
Louis. " But, after all, that is not strange,
for they and she were playmates together
when they were quite young children. It is,
however, a long time since they met. Eric
and Emilius left Nerac three years ago, for
the purpose of travelling and seeing something
of the world."

Lauretta spoke of them as special friends."

*' Yes, yes ; women of her and her mother's
stamp are very constant in their friendships
and affections. The esteem of such is worth
the winning ; and you, Gabriel, have won
it.

*' It has rejoiced me to believe so ; it
rejoices me still more to hear you confirm
my belief."

Let what I tell you of these young men
be in confidence between us."

'* It shall be, sir."

My wife is familiar with the story,
but I doubt whether Lauretta has ever
heard it. There is, in truth, a mystery in

it."

Which will make it all the more interesting."


*' Perhaps, perhaps. There is in the human
mind a strange leaning towards the weird
and fantastic."

Before we returned to Nerac on the
evening of this day Doctor Louis fulfilled his
promise, and told me the story of these
brothers, which, however, so far as they were
concerned, proved to be but an epilogue to
the play.

** It will serve our purpose," commenced
Doctor Louis," and will tend to brevity and
simplicity, if In what I am about to narrate
I use only Christian names. Slain was this
father of Eric and Emilius ; and strangely
enough, these young fellows being twins,
their father was twin brother to Bristol.
With Slain I was well acquainted, and
what I learned and knew of him was admirable.
Kristel I knew less Intimately, having
fewer opportunities. My first meeting with
Slain took place in England, long before I
met my wife. On the continent it is the
practice of many fathers to send their sons

VOL. I. p

to foreign countries for a few years, to see
something of other customs than their own
before they settle down to the serious business
of Hfe. My father did so by me, and I
travelled through most of Europe, and profited
I hope. However that may be, when
I was two and twenty years of age I found
myself in England, and in that wonderland,
London. I do not know whether I should
have liked to become a resident in that
turbulent city ; we grow accustomed to
things, and I have grown accustomed to the
quiet peaceful life I am living and have lived
for many happy years in our lovely village.
It presents itself to me in the form in which
I feel it, as a phase of human happiness
which is not to be excelled. Doubtless it
would not do for all to think as I do ; but
each man for himself, so long as he is living
a life that, to a fair extent, is useful to others.

** Well do I remember the evening on
which I first met Slain. He was standing
at the money office of an opera house;
between him and the money-taker some
difficulty had arisen with respect to the payment,
and Slain, being but imperfectly
acquainted with the language, had a difficulty
in understanding and in making himself
understood. I put the matter straight for
them, and Slain and I entered the opera*
house together, and sat next to each other
during the performance. Being foreigners
we naturally conversed, and the foundation
of a friendship was laid which was as sincere
on his side as it was on mine. We made an
appointment to meet on the following day,
and thereafter for a long while travelled in
company, and were seldom apart. Confidences,
of course, were exchanged, and we
became familiar with each other's personal

P 2

history. Mine was simple, and was soon
told ; his had an element of strange mystery
In it. In the relation of his story I noted what
was to me very touching and pathetic, and
what to him had been the cause of a great
sorrow. He had, as I have Informed you, a
twin brother, Kristel, from whom, until he
set out for his travels, he had never been
separated. But their father, for some reason
which I failed to discover, and which also
was not understood by Silvaln, had resolved
that his sons should not travel in company,
and had mapped out their separate routes in
so cunning a manner that, without violating
his Instructions, they could not meet. This
was a heavy grief to them. Born within a
few minutes of each other, they had lived, as
it were, wedded lives ; side by side and hand
in hand they had grown from boyhood to
manhood, shared troubles and pleasures, and

were in rare and perfect harmony. When
one rejoiced the other rejoiced, when one
was sad the other was sad. The severance
of two such natures was therefore no common
severance, and the scene of their last meeting
and parting, as described to me by Slain,
must have been heartrending.

' I felt,' said Slain, * as if I had lost
the better part of myself — nay, as if I had
lost my very self. But that I was conscious,
and amenable to ordinary human sensations,
I should have doubted that I lived. It is
impossible for me to describe my despair ;
and my brother suffered as I suffered. I
gathered this from his letters, as he must
have gathered the knowledge of my sufferings
from mine. Happily we were not
debarred from the consolation of corresponding
with each other. Not only routes
but dates had been carefully prepared by

our father, and I knew from day to day
where Kristel was, and where he would be
tomorrow. One night — I was in Spain at
the time — I had a vivid dream, in which
Kristel played the principal part. It was, as
most dreams are, panoramic, phantasmagoric.
There was a lake ; upon it a pleasure boat ;
in the boat six persons, two boatmen, two
ladies, and two gentlemen. One of the
gentlemen was Kristel ; the faces of the
others were strange to me. They were
laughing and singing and conversing gaily.
The sails were set, and the boat was ploughing
its way swiftly onwards. Suddenly the
clouds which had been fair, became overcast ;
the boatmen were busy with the sails. A
lurch, and one of the ladies was in the
water, struggling for life. Her white arms
were upraised, her face was blanched with
terror ; in a moment she sank. Then my

brother stood upright In the boat, and
plunged into the lake. All was confusion.
A whirl of clouds, of human faces, of
troubled waters, upon the surface of which
Kristel appeared, supporting the Insensible
form of the lady. They were pulled into
the boat, and my dream ended. I awoke,
much agitated, and when the violent beating
of my heart abated, I wrote an account of
my dream, omitting no detail. In my next
letter to Kristel, I said nothing of my dream,
but on the fifth day I received one from him
In which he gave me an account of the
perilous adventure, his description tallying
exactly with all the particulars of my dream.
In this way I discovered that there was
between me and Kristel a strange, mysterious
link of sympathy, through which each was
made acquainted with any danger or peril
which threatened the other.'

** Slain's revelations," continued Doctor
Louis, " aroused within me the keenest
interest. The mysterious influences to
which certain natures are susceptible, and
which in these twin brothers found practical
development, had always strongly attracted
me, and it was at this period of my life
that I commenced the serious study of
those hidden forces which, now only dimly
understood, will in the near future become
a recognised science. In this statement
of my belief I do not lose sight of the
impostors who, trading upon credulity.

creep into the battle raging between those
who have religious faith and those who
are groping in dark labyrinths. Their
presence does not lessen the importance
of the subject ; there always have been
and there always will be such.

I endeavoured to draw Slain into
discussion, but he declined to argue. He
was content to accept without question the
existence of the mysterious chain of
sympathy by which he and Kristel were
bound, and his theory was that unless
such sympathies were born in men all
endeavours to acquire them must be futile.

'''You do not dispute,' I said, 'that
there are secrets in nature which, revealed,
would throw a new light upon
existence ? '

' No,' said Slain, ' I do not dispute
it.'

'' ' Nor that I continued, ' by study and
research, the discovery of these secrets is
open to mankind.'

' Undoubtedly,' he said, ' you may gain
some knowledge of them ; as you may
gain knowledge concerning the growth of
flowers. But however profound your application
and however assiduous your pursuit,
you can never acquire a power which is
intuitive in those who are born with it.
At the present time, for instance, you are
attracted to the study of animal magnetism,
and you may become a master in its tricks.
You will reach no higher point. The
true spiritual gift is bestowed by nature
only.'

I need not say that my opinions were
not in harmony with his, and had there
not been an entire absence of arrogance
in his utterances, I might have been nettled

by the idea that he was asserting a
superiority over me. Although he declined
to seriously discuss the subject
he was too amiable to refuse to converse
upon It, and I extracted from him a
promise that, if it were in his power, he
would afford me the opportunity of testing
and verifying any incident of which he
might become forewarned through his
sympathy with Kristel. He faithfully kept
this promise, which, as you will presently
learn, was the forerunner of strange
results.

'' Meanwhile Silvaln and I continued to
travel together. I pursued my studies
assiduously, and did not allow myself to
be discouraged by the instances of charlatanism
which met me at every turn.
Silvaln was in the habit of relating his
dreams to me, so far as he was able to

recall them, and during the first three
months of our intimacy nothing occurred
to disturb him with respect to Triste,
whose letters he always handed to me for
perusal. These letters were most affectionately
written, but I gathered from them
an Impression that Sylvan's love was the
more profound of the two. It was at the
expiration of three months that Sllvain said,
Louis, I am beginning to dream about you.'

* That is because we are constantly
together,' I said.

' I am dreaming also of another whom
I have never seen,' said Sllvain.

'' ' Man or woman ? ' I asked.

^' ' Woman,' he replied.

'' ' Young or old ? '

'' ' Young.'

'' I smiled and said, ' You also are young,
Sllvain.'

** * Well ? ' was his inquiry.

* Love comes to the young,' I said,
with the kind wisdom which youth is fond
of parading. ' It may come one day to me.'

'' * Do yozc dream,' said Slain, ' of a
young woman whom you have never
beheld ? '

*' * I dream of many such, no doubt,' I
said, still preserving my light tone.

'' ^ Ah, yes, of many such — but of one
who constantly appears, and whom you
can in certain particulars vividly describe ?
Is this among your experiences?'

' No,' I said, ' it certainly is not.'

* Then,' continued Slain, ' she seldom
appears alone. My brother Kristel is
there ; occasionally, also, you.'

His earnest voice made me serious.

** ' Describe this woman, Slain, as she
appears to you in your dreams.'

** ' I cannot,' he said, after a momentary-pause,
* describe her face except that I
know It Is beautiful, nor her form except
that I know It Is graceful. She has black
hair, which tumbles In thick luxuriance
over her shoulders below her waist, and
upon her head is a scarlet covering,
loosely tied, which flutters in the wind
which Is sweeping around her. Her figure
Is nearly always In this position, standing
upright, with her left hand raised to her
forehead, and her eyes looking eagerly
forward.'

** ' As though searching for some one,
Sllvain ? '

'' * Yes, as though searching for someone.
For whom ? For me ? It Is a
question I seem to have asked of myself,
I know not why. Her lips are parted,
and I see her white teeth gleaming. The

wild waves are dashing up to her feet,
and surging all around her while the wind
whistles and shrieks.'

'A storm is raging,' I suggested.
'' ' An invisible storm, of which she
appears utterly regardless.'

'And I am there ?'

"rand you are there,' said Slain, 'and
Kristel, and myself And this young girl,
whose face I have never seen, but whose
beauty spiritually impresses me, is always
looking forward in the position I haVe
described.'

' Towards us ? ' I asked.

' I cannot say,' he replied, * but we
seem to be moving in her direction.'

' Moving ! ' I exclaimed. * How ? By
what means ? Walking, riding, or flying ? '

' We are on the water, it seems,' he
said ; ' but truly there is nothing clear

except the figure of the young girl standing
in the midst of the storm.'

' You dream this constantly ? '

'* ' Constantly.'

* Has Kristel ever spoken to you of
such a girl ? '

'* ' Never.'

*''It is possible,' I suggested, 'that since
you and he parted he has met with her.'

' Ah,' cried Slain, with animation,
you have hit the mark. It is through
Kristel that she comes to me in my
dreams.'

"My suggestion had been lightly made,
and the readiness with which he accepted
it astonished me. Thinking over it afterwards
in cool blood it appeared to me
incredible that, in his dreams, Slain should
thus become acquainted with a being whom
he had never seen, and of whose existence

he had never heard. But Slain entertained
no doubt on the matter.

* Shall I ever see her In my waking
life ? ' he asked, in a musing tone.

*'*You believe she lives?'

*' 'As surely as I live. If I knew where
she Is to be found I would go and seek her.'

'ein other men's judgment the calm
manner In which he spoke of this mystic
episode would have been accounted a
species of madness ; but I knew that he
was perfectly sane, and that his brain was as
clear and well balanced as my own.

' For what reason would you seek
her ? ' I asked.

* I do not know,' he replied, and added,
with a grave smile, ' perhaps because she
Is beautiful.'

'' ' You have fallen in love with a shadow,
Slain.'

VOL. I. Q

** * It may be,' he said ; ' I cannot say
how It is — only that I think of her by day
and dream of her by night. I wonder
whether we shall ever meet ! *

' Cannot you tell ? '

' No, I cannot see into the future. All
that comes to me in my dreams of and
through Kristel belongs to the past and
the present. There is no foreshadowing of
what is to be. The picture I have seen
of this beautiful girl is a reflex of what
Kristel has seen in actual embodiment.'

It would have been both unkind and
ungenerous to throw ridicule upon these
statements. To no man would Slain
have spoken as he spoke to me ; he had,
as it were, opened his soul to my gaze,
and I should have been unworthy of
friendship had I not received his confidences
with respect. Nevertheless I

could not bring myself to believe as he
believed. I was soon to become a convert.

'* About a month after this conversation
I was aroused from sleep early in the
morning by Sllvain. The sun had scarcely
risen, and he was fully dressed. I observed
signs of agitation in his face.

** * Kristel is in danger,' he said.

** These simple words acted upon me asa
charm. I divined instantly that Slain
had dreamt of his brother being in peril.
Here, then, to my hand, was a means of
verifying a mystery which might assist mein
my studies. I questioned Slain, and
he answered me frankly. Yes, he had
dreamt of Kristel, and it was his dream
which had driven him from his bed. I
determined to be precise, and, for my own
satisfaction, to extract from Slain all the
details at his command.

Q 2

*' ' Kristel,' he said, * was one of a
company of tourists who had set out to
traverse a difficult pass, from the summit
of which a view of cloud and water, and
distant lowlands of great beauty, was to be
obtained.'

' How do you know this ? ' I asked.

' Kristel reached the summit,' replied
Slain, ' shortly before sunset, and stood
enjoying the prospect.'

** * You saw him there ? '

*' M saw him there, with his friends.
Near the spot upon which they were
gathered was a hut, which in all likelihood
was built to accommodate large parties of
tourists, such as that of which Kristel
formed one. It was spacious, with many
bedrooms in it, and one large apartment in
which meals were taken. Kristel and his
companions retired to this hut after sunset.

Then night set in, and my dream
ended

* There is nothing very alarming in
that,' I observed.

*' * I do not think I awoke,' continued
Slain, 'and I cannot say whether the
interval between this dream and the dream
that followed was one of hours or minutes.
Kristel and a companion are exploring
a cavern, the opening into which is on
the summit of the mountain. They bear
torches. The walls and roof of the cavern
are of glittering spar and crystal, and the
light from the torches is a thousand-fold
reflected. They emerge from the cavern
through a fissure in the rocks some
hundreds of feet below the summit. There
is an overhanging ledge of stone, by springing
upon which readier access to the hut
is gained. Kristel's companion makes the

spring, and reaches the ledge in safety.
Kristel follows, fails in the attempt, and
falls back, bleeding. His companion, standing
far above him, cannot reach him by
bending over, and, being without ropes, is
powerless to assist Kristel, who lies there,
badly hurt'

'* * Nothing further, Slain ? '

'' ' Nothing further.'

*' ' Do you know from evidence in your
dream where this occurred ? "

'' ' No ; but Kristel is in Bavaria. I
know that by his letters, and by the
scheme of travel mapped out by my father.'

' What do you intend to do ? '

*' ' To go to Kristel. To go to Bavaria.'

* But by the time you arrive there, he
may be gone.'

' You forget that I told you he is badly
hurt. It will be some days, perhaps some

weeks, before he is able to resume his
travels. I shall arrive in time.'

*' * Is it your intention to start to-day ? *

* Yes, I shall start immediately. I must
not lose an hour. I am sorry to part from
you, Louis, but you see it cannot be helped.
I shall miss you sadly.'

*' ' And I you, Slain. But, after all,
why should we part ? My time is my own ;
I have no arbitrary plan of travel mapped
out. I will accompany you to Bavaria, and
gain another friend in Kristel.' •

^' Slain was delighted at the proposal,
and eagerly accepted it. For my own part,
although I did not confess it to Slain, I
was not entirely ingenuous in my offer. It
was not prompted solely by friendship ; an
insatiable curiosity possessed me to ascertain
the real facts of the case, and, as I have
already said, to verify them in detail.

'* * Kristel lives ? ' I said to Slain.

*' * As nearly,' he replied, * as a man can
be convinced of anything, the knowledge
of which is acquired by spiritual means, so
am I convinced that Kristel lives.'

' And will recover ? '

' That is beyond me,* said Slain
gravely. * I hope so — I pray so. You
inspire strange thoughts, Louis. Though
parted from Kristel by great distances, I
hold communion with him while he lives.
Were he to die, should I still hold communion
with him ? '

'' The question startled me, holding out,
but it did, an illimitable prospect of
mysterious knowledge stretching as far as
the portals of immortality."

Here Dr. Louis broke off in his narrative,
and said, addressing himself immediately
to me,

"In recalling these incidents of my
youthful days, and of my connection with
Slain and Kristel, I am drawn insensibly
into a fairly faithful depiction of the visionary
ideas and speculations which sprang within
me from time to time, and which afforded
me food for thought. During a brief space
I foolishly believed that the very question
and truth of the immortality of the soul
were involved in my studies of animal
magnetism. Had I accepted this, had I
allowed it to root itself firmly in my mind,
I should have been profoundly unhappy.
I can imagine no such grounds for misery
to the intellectual man as lack of faith ina
future state. I care not what shape or
form it takes, so long as it is there. And
this faith must of necessity be a blind faith.
I have already expressed to you my
conviction that a recognised science will

arise out of the better knowledge which
will be gained by certain hidden forces,
but there are immortal secrets which will
never be revealed to mankind. It appears
to me to be necessary to make this clear
to you, in order that you may not suppose
that I am still wedded to the wild chimeras
of youth."

I knew why Doctor Louis made this
statement to me. The reminiscences he
was recalling had rendered him for a little
while oblivious of the present. His youth
rose before him, in which his daughter
Lauretta had no share. Suddenly he had
remembered that I loved Lauretta, and the
Father's heart spoke to the man whose
most earnest desire it was to wed the
cherished child.

'' I understand you, sir," I said, humbly ;
the confidences which he was imparting tome,

had drawn us closer together, and
this fact seemed to be an assurance of
my happiness. In the Hght of this prospect
my spirit was humbly grateful. '' I
understand you," I repeated. '' Perhaps
also to me will come the wisdom in which
the most perfect human and divine comfort
is to be found."

He pressed my hand, and regarded me
with glistening eyes.

'' It is a wisdom," he said, '' which not
only comforts, but purifies." •

Then he resumed his story.

** I MUST not forget one question I asked
Slain.

'' * In the company of tourists who
traversed the pass with Kristel, was the
young girl present, of whom you have so
frequently dreamt ? '

'^ ' No. There seemed to me to be no
females among them.'

'' On the morning of that day we started
for Bavaria, Slain having first despatched
a letter to his father, informing him that he
was about to join his brother, and explaining
the reason. It would prolong my story to

an undue length were I to dwell upon the
record of travel and experience, which does
not bear directly upon the history of Sllvain
and Kristel. Suffice It, therefore, to say
that we arrived In Bavaria, and, after
necessary Inquiry, proceeded straight to the
mountain pass on which Sllvain believed
his brother to have met with the accident.
Some time afterwards I reflected with
interest upon the singular contrast in our
demeanour while we were pursuing our
search. I, who should have been carp,
inasmuch as no being dear to me was in
danger, was restless and excited. Silvaln,
who should have been anxious and disturbed,
was composed. He believed in the
truth of his vision ; I doubted it. But no
room was left for doubt when we came
to the end of our journey. It terminated
at the mountain hut, where Kristel was

lying slowly recovering from the injuries
he had received In his fall. Everything
was as Slain had described it. The hut
with its many small bedrooms, and the
larger apartment in which the meals were
taken ; the mount with its cavern of
glittering spar and crystal, with its entrance
from the summit of the pass, and its mode
of egress at the side lower down ; the
overhanging ledge of rock which could only
be reached by a daring leap. I recognised,
with feelings of amazement, the faithfulness
of the detail. The mystery of this spiritual
sympathy which found practical expression
in a form so strange, was beyond my
comprehension, and I accepted it, as Slain
accepted it, but the wonder never left me.

Kristel was affectionately and unfeignedly
glad to see his brother.

*^ ^ Did you expect me ? ' asked Slain.

*' ' No,' replied Kristel, ' but I hoped you
would come.'

He listened attentively while Slain
related his dream. Although he had received
no forewarning that Slain was coming to
him, he expressed no surprise ; he regarded
it, also, as perfectly natural.

*' Before I saw Kristel I had pictured
him in my mind as resembling his twin-brother
— dark, like Slain, with black hair,
and brown, melancholy eyes. I had said
to myself, *I shall know Kristel, if I meet
him for the first time when his brother is
not present.' Another surprise awaited me.
There was no resemblance between Slain
and Kristel ; there was scarcely a brotherly
likeness. Kristel was fair, his hair was
light, his eyes were blue, and his frame
was larger and more powerful.

'' They had much to relate to each other

of their travels and adventures, and I
frequently left them alone, in order that
they might indulge freely in brotherly communion.
I heard, however, from Kristel's
lips the particulars of his accident, which
tallied exactly with the account I had
received from Slain.

'''You must have dreamt of it he said
to Slain, ' at the precise moment of its
occurrence.'

Slain nodded and smiled. He was
happy because he was with Kristel, and
because Kristel was recovering strength,
slowly it was true, but surely.

' Has Kristel/ I said to Slain, ' ever
spoken to you of the beautiful girl who
presented herself to you in your dreams ? '

' No,' replied Slain, ' he has not
mentioned her

*' ' Is that not strange?' I asked.

Silvaln did not reply, and, gazing at
him, I saw that he was lost in reverie. I

had recalled the image of the girl, and he

was musing upon it.

At another time I asked Slain whether
he himself had referred to her In his conversations
with his brother. He confessed
that he had not. There was, then, a secret
which these brothers held close in their
hearts. I was not wise enough to fix
instantly upon the correct solution of this
secret which each was keeping from the
other. It required, in a third party, a
riper experience than was at my command,
to read the riddle aright.

** Two months passed by, and Kristel
hoped in a few days to be able to move
out of the hut in which he had been so
long confined, Silvaln was in the habit of
going to the post-office In the village, which

VOL. I. R

lay at the foot of the mountain. He went
one morning as usual for letters, and I was
left with Kristel. We conversed freely, and
Kristel asked me to bring his desk, which
was on a table at a little distance from the
couch upon which he was lying. I brought
the desk, and he opened it. He took
letters from it which he did not read, and
then some drawings in water-colours, an
art In which he was proficient. He glanced
at them, and laid them singly aside,
retaining one, upon which he gazed long
and earnestly.

' You are an artist,' I said, for, seeing
that I had moved my chair from the bed,
so that I should not Intrude upon his
private matters, he had called me closer,
and Invited me by a gesture to examine the
sketches.

*' ' But a poor one,' he said, still gazing

at the drawing in his hand. ' Still, this is
not bad, I think.' And he held it out tome.


He did not notice the start I gave
when my eyes fell upon the sketch. It
was that of a young girl, with most wonderful
black hair which hung loosely down. She
was standing on the upper gallery of a
lighthouse, and the silver spray of wild
waves was dashing upon the stone edifice.
Her left hand was arched above her brows,
and a scarlet kerchief was wound gracefully
round her lovely head.

I examined it in silence. The likeness
to the description given by Slain was
unmistakable, and It was only by an effort
of self-restraint that I prevented myself
from disclosing that the figure was familiar
to me. The right was not mine ; the secret
was not mine. A confidence had been

R 2

reposed In me by Slain, and, if he and
Kristel had not spoken to each other of
the girl, It was not for me to betray my
knowledge of her.

'"A fancy sketch?' I asked.

'' ' No,' replied Kristel, ' from the life.
Is she not beautiful ? '

** * Very beautiful,' I said, with a sinking
heart.

'' I have spoken of the physical dissimilarity
of Kristel and SUvaln ; but although,
from the evidence of sight, a stranger
would not have taken them for brothers,
he could not have doubted of the close
kinship, had he depended for his judgment
upon his sense of hearing. Their voices
were as one voice, In tone and Inflection,

so that, closing one's eyes, one could not
with absolute certainty decide whether
Kristel or Slain were speaking. It was

this that caused my heart to sink when
Kristel asked me if the girl was not
beautiful. In exactly the same tone had
Slain spoken of her, with fervid warmth
and enthusiasm. My vague fears — which
at that moment I should have felt a
difficulty in explaining — were not dispelled
by the action of Kristel, immediately following
my reply. Slain's footsteps were
heard without, and Kristel, swiftly and
hurriedly, took the sketch from my hand,
and placed it in his desk, which he closed
and locked.

*' Slain brought grave news to the hut.
His head drooped, his features were suffused
with sadness.

' Kristel,' he said, in a tone of melancholy
significance.

' Slain,' said Kristel, in a tone of indifference.
The sorrowful note in his

brother's voice had not reached his heart.
He was thinking of the beautiful girl,
with the wild waves dashing up to her
feet.

' Our father ' — faltered Slain, and stopped,
unable to proceed.

Even this did not arouse Kristel. He
was lying now with his head on the pillow,
and his hands, the fingers of which were
interlaced, clasped behind it. Slain came
close to his brother's side, gently disengaged
the clasped hands, and held one
within his own. Kristel was awakened to
reality by this action ; and I, who had
guessed the truth, stole softly from the
room.

When they called me in I found
them both with tears in their eyes. The
letters which Slain had received at the
post-office made them acquainted with the

death of their father. Their grief was
genuine, and they mourned with sincerity.
Kristel was the first to recover his natural
tone, and he drew Slain to speak of the
future. Slain's desire was to return
home immediately Kristel was strong
enough to travel, but Kristel would not
have it so.

' No duty of instantly returning,' he
said, ' devolves upon us, and by our remaining
abroad a while, it will not bethought
that we are wanting in affection.
Our letters inform us that the last sad
offices have been performed over the
grave of our father ; our affairs are in
good hands, and no mother or sister awaits
us to relieve her sorrow. We are alone,
you and I, Slain, with no ties beyond
us to weaken or strengthen the affection
which unites us and makes our hearts as one.'

'* Silvaln looked up with a loving light
In his eyes ; his nature was ever responsive
to the call of affection.

' Yes, Kristel,' he said, * nothing can
weaken the ties which unite us. They are
perfect, complete. Our hearts truly are
one.'

' Then you will be guided by me,
S II vain ? '

'' ' Yes.'

*' ' Good ! We will continue our travels,
and nothing shall ever part us.'

*' * Nothing cadi ever part us, Kristel,'
said Silvaln.

"Alas! If, upon the enthusiasm of the
present, when men are indulging in
dreams, the presentiment of what was to
happen in the future were to Intrude, how
quickly the glowing embers would grow
white and cold ! When I heard the

brothers exchange these professions of
love, even I, who had some reasons for
uneasiness respecting them, saw not the
dread shadows which attended them and
beckoned them onwards to their fate.

*' The days passed slowly now until
Kristel was sufficiently recovered to travel.
He would have started long before he was
fit, but Silvaln would not allow him ; and
Kristel must have had some doubts of
his strength, or he would not have
allowed himself to be prevailed upon, so
great was his impatience to start. At
length the day was fixed, and we left the
mountain and the village. I had solicited
to be permitted to accompany them and
they had readily consented. Their society
was agreeable to me, and I loved Sylvan.
I looked upon Kristel, also, with
affection, but my feelings towards him

were weaker than those I entertained for
his brother. Slain appealed more closely
to me ; we had been longer in association,
and our natures, in impulsive warmth and
unreserve, were in unison. Kristel was
colder, and sometimes suddenly checked himself
when about to open his heart. I do
not say that this should tell against a
man, and I have no doubt that, in the
telling of my story, I am influenced in
my remarks by the strange events of
which you will presently hear.

** At this point I am again silently reminded
to be thoroughly sincere. Not
alone because I was happy in the society
of the brothers and loved Slain was I
desirous to accompany them. I had
thought long and seriously over the beautiful
girl by the sea whose picture Kristel
kept concealed in his desk, and who held

a place In the hearts of the brothers, and
I was haunted by a foreboding that she
was destined to play a part in their lives.
By remaining with them I should perhaps
make her acquaintance, and might help,
for good, either one or the other. Of
course, all this was but vaguely in my
mind, and probably the most truthful
explanation would be that I was prompted
by curiosity pure and simple.

*' Kristel had extracted a promise from
Slain, to the effect that Kristel was to
assume the position of director of the
route we were to take. I, also, was bound.
We were to ask no questions, to offer no
advice, but to go blindly wherever Kristel
willed and wished.

*' * It suits my humour exactly," said
Slain, merrily, * and relieves us of responsibility.
Eh, Louis ? '

'' ' Yes,' I said, * I am entirely agreeable.'
But I wondered why Kristel had
insisted upon this stipulation. That he
had a distinct motive I was convinced. But
what motive — and whither was he about
to lead us ?

'' ' Oh, I will take the responsibility,'
said Kristel, ' and you shall find me the
best of guides and couriers.' ^

'' So we started gaily, and in a few
days left Bavaria far behind us.

'' In pursuance of the necessary scheme
of brevity I had laid down for myself, I
shall not pause in my story to give you
an account of the places we visited under
Krlstel's guidance and direction. I will
but say that I subsequently held the
opinion — and I have no doubt It was correct
— that, although Kristel had one distinct
goal in view from the moment we

started from the mountain-hut, It was a
preconceived part of his plan that we should
arrive at it by a devious route, and
should, to a certain extent, be supposed to
come to it by accident. Therefore we lingered
here and there, and shared in the
ordinary pleasures of a tour in the holiday
of life. Between us existed a most agreeable
amity and complaisance, and I inwardly
confessed it to be a wise proceeding
that one, whose word was law, should be
elected captain of our wanderings. By
land, and lake, and sea, over valley and
mountain, we made pleasant progress, picking
intellectual flowers by the waysides,
until at length Kristel's design was unfolded
to my view.

We arrived at a village on the southwest
coast of France, and there remained
for several days. It was a village

inhabited by fishermen, and on one pretext
and another, Kristel kept us there.
In pursuance of our promise of obedience
we did not demur ; and indeed there was
much to interest us in the Hfe of simplicity
led by the good-hearted inhabitants.
Their ancestors, for innumerable generations,
had lived there before them, and
the quaint and sweet crust of primitiveness
lay upon the natures of the simple
people, and invested them with a peculiar
charm. They received us hospitably, and
gave us of their best, freely and willingly.
The weather was tempestuous and stormy
when we arrived, and for a week there
was no change in it. Fierce winds swept
across the stormy sea, and roared and
shrieked along the coast. This prevented
the fishermen from following their usual
avocation, but they were by no means

idle. Sails were mended, boats were
caulked and pitched and made sound ;
then there were the curing and smoking
of fish, the repairing of huts, and all the
industry of a busy leisure. To such as
they inaction was worse than death ; work,
cheerfully performed, formed the greater
part of the pleasure of life. Often and
often have I thought of the sweetness of
existence as it presented itself to me in
that ancient village by the sea.

*' A dangerous coast it was ; and in the
distance a lighthouse. Beyond the lighthouse
treacherous silver sands, in which
lurked sudden death when Nature was
convulsed with passionate throes ; at other
times fairly safe, bathed in peace and
beauty. Within the radius of a few miles
many ships had been wrecked, and many
a crew engulfed.

*ewe were young, strong, and in good
health, and could afford to laugh at wind
and rain. Wrapped in oilskins lent to us
by the fishermen, we scaled high rocks,
round the base of which the waves dashed
furiously, and watched the wondrous effects
of the raging tempest. At such times a
man's soul is lifted up as it were. The
littleness of the human life we live assumes
its proper and just proportion, and we
become sensible of the divine grandeur of
Nature.

At the end of a week the storm
abated, and the sea became calm. When
we arose in the morning the sun was
shining upon a scene of loveliness and
peace.

' We are going to visit the lighthouse,'
said Kristel.

'* There was a glad and eager light in

his eyes, and he was full of excitement.


He had made arrangements with a
party of boatmen, and after breakfast we
went down to the shore, and took our
seats in the boat. It was a long pull —
six miles the boatmen said. From the
village this watch-dog of the sea was
only partially visible, the reason being that
it stood on the other side of a promontory,
which we now skirted. A gray,

stately mass of stone, it reared beneficently

•

to the clouds, an angel of warning to the
toilers of the sea. Calm as was the day,
the waves, broken up and lashed into
anger by hidden rocks, were wild and
turbulent around the edifice. Nearer and
nearer we approached, and saw, but imperfectly
as yet, the figure of a woman
watching us from the topmost gallery.
VOL. I. s

* Avicia,' said one of the rowers to his
comrades.

'' They nodded, and looked in her direction,
and said, ' Yes, Avicia.'

Avicia ! A sufficiently attractive and
unusual name. But it was not the name
which compelled my breathless attention
and observation ; it was a simple bit of
colour on her head, worn as a covering.


** What colour ? Scarlet.

'* I closed my eyes and became lost in
reflection.

First, of the description given to me by
Slain of a beautiful girl with raven hair,
with parted lips and white teeth gleaming,
and with a scarlet covering upon her head,
looking out towards us, who were moving
towards her upon the water.

*' Next, of a coloured sketch of this beautiful

girl, upon which Kristel was gazing, ashe
and I sat together in the mountain hut,
with love in his eyes and in his heart. * Is
she not beautiful?' Kristel had asked; and
when he heard the footsteps of his brother
without, he had hurriedly and jealously hidden
the sketch, so that Slain should not see it.
And Slain had never set eyes upon it,
neither at that nor at any other time. Of
this I was convinced, although I had no
positive knowledge of the fact.

'* ' Shall I ever see her in my waking life ? '
were Slain's words. And when I asked him
if he believed she lived, he answered, 'As
surely as I live. If I knew where she is to
be found I would go and seek her.' Well,
without seeking her he was moving towards
her ; and Kristel and I were with him ; and
Avicia was watching and waiting for us.

*' I opened my eyes and looked forward, ins

2

dumb amazement and apprehension. She
had not moved from her point of observation.
I turned towards Slain and Kristel. They
were both gazing at her Hke men entranced.
For a moment I felt as if an enchantment
had fallen upon us.

'* ' What name did you say ? ' I asked of
the boatmen.

A foolish and unnecessary question, for
I had heard it distinctly, and it was already
deeply rooted in my mind.

■' ' Alicia they replied.

Slain drew a long breath.
Kristel,' he said to his brother.

' Yes,' said Kristel, in a dreamy tone.
She is no shadow.

■' ' No, she lives.'

' I have dreamt of her exactly as she
is, exactly as she stands at the present
moment.'

'* * You have dreamt of her, Silvaln ! ' exclaimed
Kristel, in the same soft dreamy
tone. * Impossible.'

*' * It is true. I described her to Louis.'

** * Yes,' I said, ' it is true.'

*' Presently, after a pause, Slain said,
You knew she was here, Kristel ? '

*' * Yes,' replied Kristel, * I knew she was
here.'

No further words were spoken till we
reached the lighthouse, entrance to which
was obtained by means of stone steps, on
each side of which hung ropes and chains to
guide and steady us. In a few moments we
stood in the presence of Avicia.

'' * I told you I would come, Avicia,' said
Kristel. * This is my brother Slain.'

How Kristel and Avicia first met is soon
explained. Her aunt, who was the only
sister of her father, the keeper of the lighthouse,
lay dying, as she believed, in a small
hamlet in the Tyrol, and had written to her
brother to allow Avicia to come to her.
Avicia's father, a morose, avaricious man,
had the idea that his sister possessed some
treasure in money which, upon her death,
should be his, and which would be lost were
he or Avicia not with her when she died.
His duties would not permit him to leave
the lighthouse, therefore he sent Avicia to

his sister, with careful instructions how to
act. In no other circumstances would he
have consented that his daughter should
leave him, even for a short time, but the
temptation was too strong to be resisted. To
Avicia it was a trial to quit the strange place
in which she had been born, and in which
she had passed her life, but she obeyed her
father's commands, and it was in the Tyrol
that Kristel first came across her. Fascinated
by her beauty he paid her marked attentions,
and during the three weeks she remained
with her aunt (who, instead of dying, recovered
her health almost immediately upon
the arrival of her niece) the young people
were constantly together. What kind of
encouragement Avicia gave Kristel I am not
in a position to say. That he loved her withall
the strength of his heart and soul is
certain, and it could not but be that she was

flattered by the adulation of a young man so
handsome and well-born as Kristel. Despite
the difference in their stations he wooed her
honourably, and she, simple and unsophisticated,
knew not how to reply. Kristel could
not marry without his father's consent, and
so he told her ; and she, enlightened by this
avowal as to the right course for her to
pursue, told him that she could not marry
without her father's consent.

'* * Then write to him,' said Kristel, * and
when he replies, and you promise to be my
wife, I will write home and avow my love.'

'' She wrote as he desired, and at the same
time informed her father that her aunt had
recovered her health and needed her no
longer. It is my opinion that Avicia must
have written in such terms concerning Kristel
as to have inspired in the father's heart a
doubt whether the young gentleman's wooing

was prompted by honourable intentions.
There are two other possible interpretations
of the course he pursued : one, that he had
no desire to part from his daughter ; the
other, that he believed it likely he might
make some sort of bargain, to his own
advantage, with a man presumably rich
who had become enamoured of Avicia's
beauty.

' Come back instantly,' the keeper of the
lighthouse wrote to Avicia, in reply to her
letter, ' come back within an hour of your
reading these lines. Sleep not another night
in your false aunt's house ; she only sent for
you to fool you. As for this young gallant
of whom you write, if he is honest, and rich,
and reasonable, let him seek you in your
father's home. Beware that he is not also
fooling you. I doubt my wisdom in sending
one so simple as yourself into a false world.

Obey me. Come back without an hour's
delay.'

*' Frank and unsuspicious, Avicia showed
this letter to Kristel.

*' ' Your father suspects me,' he said. * I
will come and seek you the moment I am
free.'

Being set free by his father's death, he
redeemed his promise. Thus it was that
they met again.

I set myself to the study of Avicia's
character ; I wished to ascertain whether she
was a coquette. What I learned filled me
with admiration. She was a child of nature ;
ingenuous and modest, with no desire to
make a traffic of her beauty in the way of
winning men's hearts. She did not win
mine as a lover, but she won my esteem as a
friend.

'^ Needless to say we did not leave the

village ; indeed, we took up permanent quarters
there. Observing Kristel and Slain
when they were with Avicia, I foresaw a
storm — a storm all the more terrible and
significant because of the peculiar ties of
sympathy by which the brothers were bound
to each other. They bought a boat, and
took into their service two men of the village,
to row them to and fro. Not a fine day
passed without their visiting the lighthouse,
and after a time they seldom went emptyhanded.
At first they were unsuspicious
of each other, but presently I intercepted
glances, the meaning of which it was impossible
to me — an observer who wished them
well and was not likely to interfere with their
heart's dearest wish — to misunderstand.
Love had found its place — and jealousy
also. As for Avicia she made no
conspicuous sign. How was it to end.'^

With fear I asked this question of
myself

'' Of the two I distrusted Kristel the more.
Of the two I had more dread of him than
of Slain. Not divinity which of the
brothers Avicia's heart was truly drawn,
believing that her faithful love could be won
by either were the other away, I devised a
plan — which proved to be a trap into which
I myself was to fall.

I intercept the course of my narrative at
this point by mentioning something which
should have been mentioned earlier. Baldwin
was the name by which Avicia's father
was known. I have told you he was an
avaricious man. He was something more
than this — he was a designing man, and he
played one brother against the other. They
grew, as I have said, into the habit of taking
presents with them when they visited the

lighthouse, presents of wine and food and
flowers. The wine and food were acceptable
to Avicia's father, the flowers he despised.

' But,' said Kristel to him, ' the flowers
are for Avicia.'

'' ' Exactly,' said Baldwin, ' but were I a
young man, and rich, and made presents to
a young girl, they should not always be
flowers which fade in a day, and are flung
into the sea. I should think of things more
substantial, things that would last and would
always retain their value.'

'' Upon this hint they were not slow to act.
They sent letters to distant towns ; they made
secret visits to places not so far away as to
necessitate their absence for not longer than
twenty-four hours, and armed with ornaments
and jewels they made their appearance at the
lighthouse, and presented them to Avicia.
She wore none of them ; her father took

possession of them, with the remark, * It
would be unbecoming for a single girl to
display these gewgaws upon her neck and
arms. By and by, when she is a married
woman, then will be the time, if other things
are in keeping. Meanwhile, I am a safe
custodian — and mark you,' he added, with an
emphasis which caused me to regard him
with abhorrence (for I was present when he
said it), * my daughter has been taught to
obey me. My will is her law.'

'* They saw not the meaning of the cunning
words ; I, cooler and more collected, with no
blinding, passionate thrills in my pulses, was
gifted with a keener insight. I made one
slight, impotent attempt to open their eyes,
but the manner in which I was met warned
me not to repeat it if I wished to be of
service to them, and to avert a calamity.
He was Avicia's father, and, as such, incapable

in their judgment of a mean or sordid
act.

'now for the trap I set, into which I was
she only one to fall. I had really, with the
best wisdom at my command, reviewed and
studied the lamentable position of affairs, and
it appeared to me a necessity that one of the
brothers must suffer. If he suffered without
guilt upon his soul, it would be the be-all and
the end-all of the torture. His suffering
would be his own, and would not bring
misery upon others. And in the light of the
inevitable, his honourable feelings and the
promptings of conscience — to which I believed
both Slain and Kristel to be amenable —
would assist him to bear it in silence, however
bitter and poignant it might be. I
decided that Slain was the better able,
upon moral grounds, to bear the suffering,
although, had it devolved upon me to deliberately

contribute to the happiness of only one
of the brothers, my choice would have fallen
upon Sylvan. My scheme was to endeavour
to take him from this scene of silent, agonising
contention of love. Upon his return he would
find matters so far advanced that he would
be deterred from advancing another step
towards Avicia.

** I opened the matter privately with
Silvaln.

'' * I am called away from you,' I said to
him, 'and shall be absent for three or four
months.'

'' ' I am sorry to hear it,' said Slain. ' Is
it imperative ? '

** ' Yes,' I said, ' it is imperative.'

'* * I do not ask you upon what errand you
are compelled to leave us,' said Slain,
because if the matter were not as private as
it is urgent, I think you would confide in me

voluntarily. Unhappily,' he added, with a
sigh, ' we all have secrets which it is incumbent
upon us to conceal even from our dearest
friends.'

'* I understood the allusion, and my heart
bled for him.

* Slain,' I said, ' I have grown so accustomed
to your society, and if you will forgive
me the confession, have grown so to love
you, that I shall feel inexpressibly lonely and
unhappy without you. Why not accompany
me ?'

*' There was a sad surprise in his eyes ashe
answered,

' If it were possible, it would afford
me great pleasure. But it is not
possible.'

'''Why not ?'

' Do not ask me ; you would not understand.'


VOL. I. T

** Is it really necessary you should stay
here ? '

** ' Vitally necessary. To leave would snap
my heart-strings. I should die.'

' Slain,' I said, with all my earnestness,
sometimes In a man's life there comes a
crisis '

'' He stopped me with a firmness and decision
which were unanswerable.

*' ' I do not, I must not seek to know your
meaning. Surely you can see that I am
suffering. All would be dark, but for the
licht of one star which illumines the world forme.
Not another word. You say you love me.
If your love is sincere, you will spare me.'

*^ ' It is because my love is sincere I
urged, * that I would give much if I could
prevail upon you.'

'' But he broke from me and would listen
no further.

*' * Next I tried Kristel, and found him, as
I feared and expected, obdurate and violent.
In the interval which elapsed between my
speaking to Slain and Kristel, all the
village knew that I was about to leave, and
the fishermen, and their wives and children,
with whom I had become a general favourite,
freely expressed their regret at the prospect
of losing me.

** ' But I am coming back,' I said with an
attempt at gaiety.

'' They expressed their joy at hearing this.
There was no retreat open to me. Had I
manufactured an excuse for staying, I felt
that I should have been looked upon with
suspicion by Kristel and Slain. In that
case, my possible usefulness would be destroyed,
and I could never regain the position
of confidence I had gained with them.
Therefore I bade them farewell, and

T 2

much distressed and disturbed took my
departure.

'* I returned at the end of three weeks,
the shortest limit I had set upon my absence.
I had written to Kristel and Slain, announcing
my return and expected to be greeted
by them upon my arrival. To my disappointment
I saw nothing of them, and
upon inquiring for them, I was informed that
they had gone from the village.

** * Gone ! ' I cried.

* Yes,' was the answer, * disappeared.

*' That was all the satisfaction I obtained
from the men in the village, my inquiries
being at first confined to them. As a rule,
they were not given to tittle-tattle, and
accounted it a virtue to hold their tongues.
Most of the women followed the lead of the
men in this respect, but there were a few
gossips among them, and I sought out the

most garrulous of the class, who was generously
discursive and communicative. She
was an old woman whose name I have forgotten,
and she tardily enlightened me — to
my sorrow and dismay. She commenced ina
roundabout fashion.

'''You see, sir,* the old soul said, 'there's
no telling what there is in man or woman
till they are set loose. Tie a young girl up,
keep her from mixing with folk, and prevent
her from making friends, and frolicking a
bit in a harmless way, with girls and boys
of her own age, and likely as not mischief
will come of it. Not that I believe there's
any harm in her.'

* In her ! ' I exclaimed. ' In whom ? '

' In Avicia, of course. I don't say it's

her fault, but beauty's a snare. You see,

sir, she was brought up wrong. 'Twas not

her fault but her misfortune that her mother

died when she was a little one — too little to
remember anything of her who suckled her.
Then said we to her father, the keeper of
the lighthouse, '' You and a babe are not a
match. Being a man, you are an ignoramus
in the ways of a child, who hasn't yet learnt
to prattle. Let her come among us, and we
will rear her for you, and make a bright
woman of her." For even then, young as
she was, we women knew that she was going
to grow up beautiful. Men think all babes
alike, but we know better. Avicia's father
would not have it so. '' My child shall not
leave my side," said he. " She will be better
off without a parcel of women about her."
We settled It among ourselves that he was
too mean and stingy to do as we wanted,
thinking it would cost him something. He's
a rare close-fisted man Is Baldwin, and fairly
dotes on gold — though, as he declares he will

live and die on the lighthouse, It's hard to
say what good all the gold In the world
could do him. We offered to take the babe
for nothing, but even that he wouldn't listen
to, being suspicious that we had designs on
him. So Avicia was left with him, and he
brought her up In his lonely home, in which
no child but his own has ever set foot.
Give the devil his due — which Isn't saying
much, for if you don't give it him he'll be
quick enough in taking It, and a bit over
if he's got the chance — Baldwin didn't let
Alicia grow In Ignorance ; he taught her
useless things, such as reading and writing,
and perhaps the child didn't miss much, In
her own reckoning, by not mixing with us.
Anyhow, there she was, a maid as beautiful
as can be found, sea-born and sea-bred, fit
for a lighthouse and for nothing else. That
didn't stand in the way of the young men in

the village falling in love with her, but she
would have nothing to say to one of them,
and as they received no encouragement from
her father to woo her, they let her alone.
Our men are not of the sort to go puking
and sighing over a woman. It's a fair match
when they come together, and the men don't
always get the best of it. We take care of
that. But when you and your gentlemen
friends came among us — and you're likely
men the three of you — we saw how the cat
jumped. There was a fat fish to hook, and
Baldwin set about it. Let him alone for setting
a line — but it can't be denied that he'd a
rare bait at the end of it. " Which one is
it ? " asked we of one another when we were
talking about it. None of us could decide.
We had only two to guess one from, for we
saw that j/ozc weren't being fished for, and still
we couldn't decide whether it was Master

Sllvain or Master Kristel. They were both
mad in love with her pretty face, and, being
brothers, we thought It a pity, for love Is like
a poison. However, It was for them to settle
it, and settled It is, one way or another.'

* How .^ ' I asked, in a whirl of apprehension.


*' ' That,' replied the old woman, * is what
we're waiting to find out.'

** * It is true that my friends have left the
village, Is it not ? '

** * There's nothing truer

^* I saw that she had not Imparted to me
all she knew, and that she was enjoying herself
at my expense by doling it slowly out.
My mood was too impatient for crumbs, and
I said, if she were not more swiftly communicative,
that I would go immediately to the
lighthouse, where I could doubtless obtain
from Avicia information of the movements

of Slain and Kristel. The old woman
laughed, and said I must seek elsewhere for
Avicia.

'* ' I thought I told you,' she said, ' that
Avicia had also disappeared. Be a little
patient, and you will know everything.
You're lucky, for I'm the only one in the
village that can tell you things.'

** I had no choice ; I was compelled to be
patient, and, related in my own words, this
is what I learnt :

After my departure the wooing of Kristel
and Slain had become more fierce, and they
were aware that they were rivals. It mayor
may not have been that Avicia had given
and confessed her love to one of the brothers,
but upon this point there was not even the
evidence of hearsay, and my perplexity and
distress were the greater because of my
ignorance. Avicia came more frequently

from the lighthouse to the village, and
always in the company of both Kristel and
Slain. These visits were made during the
day, and in the evening the brothers, having
dispensed with the service of the boatmen
they had engaged, were in the habit of
rowing Avicia home. One night, upon the
return of Slain and Kristel to the village,
the old woman from whom I obtained these
particulars overheard them conversing. She
was unable to fix the identity of each speaker,
for the night was dark, and she could nbt
distinguish the voices as coming from either
the one or the other. I could well excuse
her for this, because, if I had been in her
place, and concealed as she was, I myself
should have been in doubt of the particular
speaker who, for the moment, engaged my
attention. This is what she overheard :
' It is time to put an end to this. I have

suffered in silence too long, and I can no
longer bear my sufferings. Why do you bar
my path to happiness ? '

* Why do you bar mine ? I love
Avicia.*

'' * I also love her.'

* You have concealed it from me.'

' Have you not done the same by
me?'

** ' How, then, could I suspect that you
were my rival ? '

'* ' How could I ? '

** ' You madden mee by your retorts. Can
you not understand that you are driving
me to desperation ? She is the light of my
life ! '

'' ' And of mine ! '

That was all she heard. They moved
away out of sight, and she was afraid to
follow.

Two days before my return to the
village, Avicia, Kristel, and Slain rowed,
as usual, from the lighthouse to the shore.
They were accompanied on this occasion
by Avicia's father, who had engaged an experienced
man to take his place on the
lighthouse during his absence. It was a
breach of duty, but he risked it. The sea
was calm and the weather fine, and likely to
remain so. The risk, therefore, was not
great.

'* How they passed the day was not
known. They did not mingle with the
inhabitants of the village, who, without
invitation, were not likely to obtrude upon
them, their own concerns being quite sufficient
to occupy their attention. What was
known was, that the father, daughter, and
the twin-brothers passed out of the village,
and that there appeared to be some kind of

awkwardness and constraint upon them, the
precise nature of which was not discernible ;
and that at sunset Avicia's father came back
alone, and rowed himself to the lighthouse.
From that moment nothing more had been
seen of the young people.

What had become of them ? Whither
had they gone ? It appeared to me that
Avicia's father was the only person who
could allay my anxiety, and to him I went
on the following day. He received me
civilly enough, but I learnt little from
him.

"'If you come to me,' he said, 'to pry
into my daughter's concerns — which are
mine — I say they are none of yours. You
are little more than a stranger to me, and
I have no business with you, and desire
none. If you come to ascertain where you
can find your friends, you will learn nothing

from me. As to one, perhaps It is in my
power to tell you, but I do not choose to
gratify you. As to the other, perhaps
you are as likely to light upon him as I
am.'

During my visit I kept myself on the
alert to discover some trace of Avicia, for it
might be that the villagers were mistaken in
their idea that she had disappeared at the
same time as Slain and Kristel. She might
have returned in the middle of the night
when all the village was asleep. I saw no
signs of her, however, and when I left the
lighthouse I was confident that she was not
there.

** I was at a loss what to do. There was
absolutely no clue to direct me to my friends,
and my anxiety became almost unbearable.
I made inquiries in neighbouring villages
and towns, and I employed men to search

for them — but all was of no avail. At the
end of a couple of months I was not a whit
the wiser. To remain any longer in the
village would have been folly, and it was
with pain and reluctance that I bade the
simple inhabitants farewell. They expressed
a hope that they would see me again, and I
promised to pay them another visit before
twelve months had passed. It was a promise
not lightly given, and it was my intention
to perform it. I argued with myself that
Avicia was certain to return at some time
within the period I have mentioned, and
that, directly or indirectly, I should succeed
in renewing my acquaintance with Slain.
That she was married to one of the brothers
was in my view an established fact, but I
found it impossible to decide upon which of
them her choice had fallen. Bearing in
mind the absorbing love which both had

entertained for her, I shuddered to think of
the consequences that might ensue from
despair and jealousy.

'* Before I left the village to resume my
travels I went to the lighthouse to see
Avicia's father, to acquaint him with my
impending departure. He seemed to me
restless and uneasy, and threw out vague
hints of having been deceived, and of
promises broken by those who owed him
love and duty. Taking advantage of these
hints I pressed him closely, but he surlily
refused to give me the least information.

*' ' It can surely do you no harm,' I urged,
to tell me to whom your daughter is married.'

'* ' If I come face to face with the man
who says the contrary,' he cried, ' he will not
live to repeat the lie.'

He had misunderstood my question, and
thought I intended to cast a doubt upon his
daughter's good name. Having assured him

VOL. I. u

that I had no such intention, and pacified
him, I repeated my question.

'* * Find out for yourself he said morosely,
for the fortieth time, you will learn nothing
from me.'

Why he should have been so persistently
and unnecessarily brutal puzzled me. Suddenly
a bright idea occurred to me. Baldwin
was avaricious and a miser. He loved gold ;
it was as precious to him as his life's blood.

*' I took my purse from my pocket, and
emptied several gold pieces into the palm of
my hand. A hissing sound escaped from
between his closed teeth, and his eyes were
fixed upon the money greedily, and then
upon me ferociously.

I laughed lightly and disdainfully. I
made a motion of my head towards the boat
which was moored to a staple in the outer
wall of the lighthouse. Two fishermen were In
the boat, waltlncr to row me back to the village.

'' ' If I do not go to them soon,' I said,
they will come and seek me.'

' What do you mean by that ? ' he asked,
with a dark frown on his face.

'' ' You decline to answer my questions,' I
replied, ' and I decline to answer yours. But
I can do what you would be unwilling to do.'

'' ' What is that ? '

*' * I can pay for information. Ten of
these gold pieces are yours, if you tell
me truly to whom your daughter is
married.'

** ' Give me the money.'

'* I gave him the gold, and he bit the
coins singly with his strong teeth. Then he
said, ' She is married to Slain.'

' Heaven pity him,' I said, preparing to
descend, ' for such a father-in-law.'

' He needs no pity,' retorted Baldwin,
he has Avicia.'

As we rowed to land I kept my face
towards the lighthouse, and saw, with my
mind's eye, the image of the beautiful girl, as
I had seen her for the first time, standing
on the topmost gallery, with her luxuriant
hair hanging loose, and the scarlet covering
on her head. In the lives of Kristel and
Slain the lovely vision was the embodiment
of a terrible fate. Red lips parted, white
teeth gleaming, wistful eyes gazing, a face

of bewitching beauty and innocence

And suddenly the vision grew indistinct ina
mass of whirling clouds, which in my
fevered fancy became pregnant with angry
passions. I dashed my hand across my eyes.

'' ' Steady, sir,' said the rowers, as their
boat grated on the beach.

*' Before night fell I was far away.

END OF VOL. I.

RICHARD CLAY AND SONS, LONDON AND BUNGAY.



12 045831507

NttERnAKC

^F

VST

13. Z. fARJ£0//.

LIBRARY OF THE
/ UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS
AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN


Fuisse

v .2

VOL. II.

A • *

SECRET INHERITANCE

BY

B. L. FARJEON,

AUTHOR OF "GREAT PORTER SQUARE," "IN A SILVER SEA,"
"THE HOUSE OF WHITE SHADOWS," ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. II

LONDON

WARD AND DOWNEY

12, YORK STREET, COVENT GARDEN, W.C.



I travelled for many months alone. I

made acquaintances which never ripened

into friendships, and seldom did twenty-four

hours pass without my thoughts wandering

to Slain. Thinking it not unlikely that

one or both of the brothers had returned to

their home in Germany, I wrote several

letters to them there, without receiving an

answer. This portentous silence increased

rather than diminished my interest in the

man I loved as a brother. In speaking of

him in these terms I am but giving faithful

expression to the feelings I entertained for

B 2

him ; up to that time I had never met a
human being, man or woman, who had so
entirely won my affectionate regard.

Family circumstances rendered me more
than ever my own master ; I was free to go
whithersoever my inclination led me, and
certainly my inclination pointed clearly to
that part of the world where I should be
most likely to find my dear friend. But I
had no clue to guide me ; to turn east, west,
north, or south, in search of him would have
been a hap-hazard proceeding, and to hope
for success in so unintelligent a search would
have been the hope of a madman. My
anxiety with respect to the fate of Slain
.and Kristel never deserted me, but it was
many years before I was enabled to take up
the links in the chain.

During those years a great and happy
change occurred in my own life. I interrupt

the course of my narrative here to remark
that it is singular I should be relating this
history fully, for the first time, within a
comparatively short distance of places in
which the most pregnant — and indeed
terrible — incidents in the career of the twin
brothers were brought to my knowledge.
My wife is acquainted with some portions
of this history, but not with all. The lighthouse
in which Avicia was born is within a
hundred miles of this spot. Indirectly it led
me to the acquaintance of the lady who
became my wife, and to as great a happiness
as any man can hope to enjoy.

Nerac is not my birthplace, and it was
in passing through the lovely village on one
of my visits to the village by the sea — visits
made in the vain hope of obtaining intelligence
of Slain — that I was introduced to
her. I pass over the records of a time

which lives in my remembrance as a heavenly-summer.
Happy is the man who has
enjoyed such a season. Happier is the man
to whom such a season is the harbinger of
such home joys as have fallen to my lot.

When I first made the acquaintance of
my wife, and for some years afterwards, her
parents were alive, and I saw that it would
be cruel to ask her to leave them. I did
not put her love to such a test. I settled in
Nerac, and married there.

It is a solemnly strange reflection by what
chance threads we are led to our destiny
a destiny which may be one of honour or
shame, and which may bring a blessing or a
curse into the lives of others whom, but for
the most accidental circumstance, we should
never have seen. The doctrine of responsibility
is but little understood. Thus, had
it not been for my chance meeting with

Slain in London, I should never have
known my wife, and it seems to me impossible
that I should have been a happy ora
good man without her. Such women as
she keep men pure.

Midway between Nerac and the village
by the sea to which Kristel led his brother
in his pursuit of the girl who was to bring
them to their doom lies a forest of great
extent, and it was in this forest, after a
lapse of four years, that I came once more
into association with Slain and Avicia. I
was called in that direction upon important
business ; at that period of my life I was an
ardent pedestrian, and if the opportunity
offered, was glad to make my way on foot,
without respect to distance. I may confide
to you that I was in the habit of taking a
great deal of exercise because I was afraid
of growing fat.

I was unacquainted with the locality,
and I took a short cut, which proved a
long one. When darkness fell I found
myself entrapped in the forest amidst a
wilderness of trees. Never shall I forget
the night and the day that followed. It
was such a night as that upon which you,
my friend, were lying helpless in the woods
near Nerac. Not relishing the idea of
passing a number of lonely hours in such a
place and under such circumstances, I made
a vigorous effort to escape from the gloomy
labyrinth. I did not succeed, and it was
one o'clock in the morning by my watch
before I made up my mind like a sensible
person to rest till daylight. So I sat me
down upon the trunk of a tree, and made the
best of matters. Fatigued with my exertions
I dozed for a few moments, then started up
with a vague feeling of alarm, for which there

was no cause, then dozed again and again,
with repetitions of similar uneasiness ; and
finally I fell fast asleep.

"It was full daylight when I awoke. I
arose refreshed, and gazed around with smiles
and a light heart, despite that I was hungry
and that there was no water in sight. I had
no doubt that I should soon find myself
in some place where I could obtain food.
Resolving upon my course I set forward in
the direction of rising ground, from the
summit of which I should be able to overlook
the country. In one part of the forest I
was traversing the trees were very thickly
clustered, and it was here I chanced upon
the forms of a man and a woman lying on
the ground asleep, The circumstance was
strange, and I leant over the sleeping persons
to see their faces. I could scarcely repress a
cry of astonishment at the discovery that the

man was Slain and the woman Avicia. It
was from an impulsive desire not to disturb
them that I uttered no sound, for truly their
appearance was such as to excite my deep
compassion.

Avicia's head was pillowed upon Slain's
right arm, and his left hand was clasped in
hers. In complete ignorance of what had
brought them to this miserable position, there
was, to my mind, in this close clasping of his
hand in hers, a kind of protection, as though
she were making an instinctive effort to
shield him from a hidden danger. The
faces of both were wan with suffering, and
their clothes were poor and ragged. I
trembled to think that they might be in
want of food.

As I gazed in pity and apprehension
Slain moved. A spasm of fear
passed across his face, and he exclaimed

in terror, ' Avicia ! Avicia ! He is coming
nearer — nearer ! We must fly ! '

Before the words were uttered she was
awake and on her feet. She saw me without
recognising me, and she sank to the ground
again, with a piercing scream which curdled
through my veins, so much of fear and terror
did it express. Dazed, and not yet fully
awakened, Slain threw himself before her
in an attitude of protection.

' Slain ! ' I cried ; ' do you not know
me ?'

"He looked up with a shudder, and passed
his hand across his eyes. It was like the
look of an intelligent animal who is being
hunted to his death. But a softer expression
came slowly into them as he gazed upon me
and saw that it was a friend and not an
enemy who stood before him. I spoke no
further word at the moment, for the tears

were running down his haggard face ; his
overcharged heart had found relief, and I
turned from him.

Presently I felt his hand upon my arm.

* It is really you ? ' he said in a broken voice.

' No doubt of that, Slain,' I said in a
cheerful tone, purposely assumed to put him
at his ease, ' unless life is a delusion.'

"' Would it were!' he muttered, 'would
it were ! ' And then, suspiciously, ' Did you
come to seek me ? '

' No, Slain ; it is pure accident, if there
be such a thing as accident.'

' There is not,' he said ; ' all is ordained.'

' One of our old arguments, Slain,' I
said, still with a cheerful air ; I would not
humour his gloomy mood.

' Do not mock me ; ' and he spread his
hands, with upturned palms. ' Can you not
see ?'

' I can see that you are in bad trim,
which can easily be set right. Slain,' I
said reproachfully, ' this is not as we used to
meet. I come to you with open arms, and
you receive me with doubt and suspicion.
Are we not, as we always were and always
shall be, friends staunch and true ? You are
the same Slain ; I am the same Louis ;
unchanged, as you will find me if you care to
prove me.'

"Avicia had risen and crept close to my
side.

' Friends staunch and true,' she said,
echoing my words. 'You are not mocking
him ? !

\ Indeed, no

' Then give us food,' she said.

"At this appeal I felt my pretended
cheerfulness deserting me, but I caught the
would-be runaway, and held it fast.

' Food ! ' I exclaimed, rattling some money
in my pocket. ' Would that I knew where to
obtain it ! Here am I, starving, lost in the
woods last night, and with not an idea now
how to get out of them. Can you show me
the way ? '

' Yes,' she replied eagerly.

' Then I am fortunate, indeed, in lighting
on you, and I bless the chance. Ah, Slain,
how I searched for you ! To leave me, without
ever a word — I would not have believed
it of you. It was as though you doubted my
friendship, which,' I added, ' is as sincere at
this moment as ever it was in the years gone
by.' Here there was a little choking in my
throat because of the tears which again flowed
from his eyes. ' I went to the village three
times to get news of you, and had to come
away unsatisfied. I wrote to your home in
Germany, and received no reply. We have

much to tell each other. But I am forgetting.
You are faint and weary, and so am I. Can
you take us to an inn where we can put some
cheerful life into our bodies ? '

I addressed this last question to Avicia,
and she answered ' Yes and was about to
lead the way when Slain stopped her.

* Is it on our road ? ' he asked.

11 ' Yes,' she answered, ' it is on our road.'

He motioned to her to proceed, and she
stepped forward, Slain and I walking side
by side in the rear. This companionship
was of my prompting, for had I not detained
him he would have joined Avicia. I was
burning with curiosity to learn what had
befallen my friend during the last few years,
but I restrained myself from asking questions
which I felt he was not in the proper frame of
mind at present to answer. Therefore as we
walked onwards it was chiefly I who had to

beguile the way. I told him all that had
passed since we last met, narrated adventures
which in former times would have interested
him, and spoke freely of my settlement in
life and of the happiness of my home. He
acknowledged my efforts in monosyllables,
but volunteered nothing of himself or Avicia.
At the end of about an hour's walk we arrived
at a village, in which there was one poor inn,
and there we halted. Before we entered
Slain said,

' A word first. I have been seemingly
churlish and ungrateful, but I am not so.
My heart is overflowing with thankfulness ;
presently, perhaps, I may have courage to
unbosom myself. You are as you were ; life
is fair and sweet to you.'

"It was only because he paused here that
I spoke : ' And will be to you, Slain.'

' Never again,' he said. ' I am followed

by a relentless spirit ; I have been pursued
for years by one who was heart of my heart,
soul of my soul, but who now, from feelings
of revenge, and as he believes of justice, is
my bitter enemy.'

' Dare I mention his name, Slain ? '

' I will do so. My brother Kristel. It
is of him I wish to say a word to you before
I partake of your charity.'

' Slain ! ' I cried, in remonstrance.

' Forgive me. I am tormented because
of my condition, because of Avicia's misery.
Answer me honestly. Is it really true that
you came upon us by chance in the woods ? '

' It is really true.'

' Kristel did not send you ? '

1 1 have not seen Kristel since you and I
last met.'

' Nor heard from him ? '

' Nor heard from him.

vol. 11. c

He took the hand I held out to him, and
we followed Avicia into the inn, where, very
soon, we were seated at a table with a modest
meal before us. The food was poor enough,
the wine was thin and common, but we could
scarcely have enjoyed a grand banquet more.
I speak not alone for myself, but for Slain
and Avicia ; it was evident to me that they
had not had many full meals lately. Avicia
especially ate ravenously, and with a perfect
sense of animal enjoyment, and it was only
when she had finished that a certain terror,
which I had observed in both her and Slain,
again asserted itself.

' Remain here a while, Avicia,' said
Slain, at the end of the meal ; ' I wish to
speak to our friend alone.'

' Are we safe ? ' she asked.

' I think so ; I hope so. Sleep ; it will
do you good.'

"Thank you, Slain.'

She was seated on a hard bench, not
conducive to repose ; nevertheless she closed
her eyes, and was almost immediately
asleep.

' Poor girl ! ' said Slain, with a sigh,
1 she has suffered much — and in a few weeks
will become a mother.'

We strolled up and down outside the inn
and conversed.

' You have behaved to us with true friendship,'
he said ; and yet you can see we are
beggars. Are you prospering ? '

I am not rich,' I replied, ' but I can spare
to a friend.'

' We are making our way to Avicia's
home, to the lighthouse upon which I saw
her for the first time otherwise than in my
dreams. I doubt whether you can turn aside
the finger of Fate as I behold it, pointing

c 2

downwards to a grave, but you can perhaps
help us to cheat it for a short time

' You speak strangely, Slain ; the ominous
fears which oppress you may be bred
by a disordered fancy.'

* In our former intercourse,' was his reply,
1 was my fancy ever disordered ? I advanced
nothing that was not afterwards proved ; I
made no pretence of accounting for the warnings
I received ; I make none now. I
shudder to think of the future, not so much
for my own sake as for Avicia's. Helpless,

penniless, without a friend '

' You are forgetting me, Slain ? '
' Ah, yes, my friend, as you still declare
yourself to be ; I cannot but believe you.

But Avicia '

' I am her friend as well as yours.'
' For God's sake, do not speak lightly !
You do not know to what a pass I am driven.'

"you shall enlighten me, and I maybe
able to counsel you. Do not think I am
speaking lightly, As I am your friend, so
am I Avicia's. As I will stand by you, so
will I stand by her.'

* In perfect faith, Louis ? '

It was the first time he had uttered my
name, and I held it as a sign that I had
dispelled his distrust. I replied, ' In perfect
faith, Slain.'

' I accept it so. When I am gone, she
will not be quite alone in the world. And
now, will you give me a little money ? I do
not ask you to lend it to me, for I have no
expectation of being able to repay you. I
will briefly explain the necessity for it. Weare
bound for the lighthouse. It is our
only refuge, and there our child will
be born. May it prove a comfort to
the mother! We have fifty miles to go,

and Avicia is not strong enough to

walk '

' Say no more I interrupted, 'of the
necessity for such a trifle ; I can spare you
more than sufficient for your purpose.'

I took from my purse what was requisite
for my immediate needs, and pressed the
purse with the coins that remained into his
hand. He took it in silence, and his emaciated
form shook with gratitude.

* You ask no questions about these,' he
said, pointing to his rags.

11 Why should I ? ' I asked in return. ' But
there are one or two points upon which you
might satisfy me.'

■ ' I cannot go into my history, Louis. If
you will give me your address I will
send it to you before the week is out.
Indeed, after your noble promise with
respect to Avicia, it is yours by right.

It will not only enlighten, it will guide
you.'

"'I will wait for it, and will make an
opportunity of seeing you soon after I have
read it. The points I wish to mention are
these : While you and Avicia were sleeping
in the forest, and I stood looking down upon
you, you cried — not because of my presence,
of which you were ignorant, but because of
some disturbing dream — " He is coming
nearer — nearer ! We must fly ! ,: To whom
did you refer ? '

' To my brother Kristel. He is pursuing
us.

' To your hurt ? '

' To my destruction.'

' Then you have seen him ? '

' I have not seen him. I know it through
my dreams, as of old. You could not doubt
their truth when we travelled together — ah,

those happy days ! — you cannot doubt it
now.'

' Then, what was love between you has
turned to hate ? ' The words escaped me
unaware ; I repented of them the moment
they were spoken.

' Yes,' said Slain, in a tone of deepest
sadness, ' what was love between us is turned
to hate. Ask me no more questions — in pity ! '

' But one, Slain. Have you any
children ? '

' None. The babe that Avicia will soon
press to her breast will be our first-born.'

To matters upon which I saw he was
then unwilling to converse, I made no further
reference. He engaged a light cart and
horse, and a man to drive them to the village
by the sea. Then he woke Avicia, and I
said farewell to them, and gazed after them
till they were out of sight.

As he had promised, I received from
him before the end of the week a statement
of his adventures. It is now among my
papers in Nerac, and I remember perfectly
all the salient particulars necessary to my
story, which is now drawing to a conclusion.
I will narrate them in my own way, asking
you to recall the day upon which the
brothers were last seen in the village by
the sea.

Slain, Kristel, and Avicia, accompanied
by her father, rowed from the lighthouse to
the shore. The villagers saw but little of
them ; they passed out of the village, and
Avicia's father returned alone to the lighthouse.
Kristel loved Avicia with all the
passion of a hot, imperious, and intense
nature. He looked upon her as his, and
had he suspected that Slain would have
fallen in love with her, it can readily be
understood that he would have been the
last man to bring them into association with
each other. But so it happened.

When Kristel and Avicia met in the
Tyrol, Kristel was buoyed up with hopes
that she reciprocated the love she had
inspired in his breast. He had some reason
for this hope, for at his request, when he
asked her to become his wife and said that
he could not marry without his father's
consent, she had written home to her father
with respect to the young gentleman's
proposal, thereby leading him to believe
that she was ready to accept him. It
appeared, however, that there was no real
depth in her feelings for him ; and, indeed,
it may be pardoned her if she supposed
that his fervid protestations were prompted
by feelings as light and as little genuine
as her own. Unsophisticated as she was
in the ways of the world, the fact of his
making the honourable accomplishment of
his love for her dependent upon the fiat of

another person could not but have lessened
the value of his declarations — more especially
when she had not truly given him her
heart. It was given to Slain upon the
occasion of their first meeting, and it was
not long before they found the opportunity
to exchange vows of affection — a circumstance
of which I and every person but themselves
were entirely ignorant. But love is cunning.

It was because of Avicia's fear of her
father that this love was kept secret ; he
held her completely in control, and — first
favouring Kristel and then Slain, playing
them against each other, as it were, to his
own advantage in the way of gifts — filled
her with apprehension.

' Looking back,' Slain said in his
statement to me, ' upon the history of those
days of happiness and torture, I can see
now that I was wrong in not endeavouring

to arrive at a frank understanding with my
brother ; but indeed I had but one thought
Avicia. As Kristel believed her to be
his, so did I believe her to be mine, and
the idea of losing her was sufficient to
make my life a life of despair. And after
all, it was for Avicia to decide. Absorbing
as was my love for her, I should have had
no choice but to retire and pass my days
in misery had she decided in favour of
Kristel.'

The base conduct of Avicia's father was
to a great extent the cause of turning
brotherly love to hate. Seeing their infatuation,
he bargained with each secretly, saying,
in effect, ' What will you give me if I give
you my daughter's hand ? — for she will not,
and cannot, marry without my consent.'

And to the other, ' What will you give
me ? '

o A Secret Inheritance.

He bound them to secrecy by a solemn
oath, and bound his daughter also in like
manner, promising that she should have the
one she loved. Slain was the more liberal
of the two, and signed papers, pledging
himself to pay to the avaricious father a
large sum of money within a certain time
after his union with Avicia. So cunningly
did the keeper of the lighthouse conduct
these base negotiations, that, even on that
last day when they all rowed together to
the village, neither of the brothers knew
that matters were to be brought then and
there to an irrevocable end.

The village by the sea lay behind them
some six or eight miles. Then, upon a
false pretext, Avicia's father got rid of
Kristel, sending him on an errand for Avicia
which would render necessary an absence
of many hours. That done, he said to

Slain and Avicia, ' Everything is arranged.
This day will see you man and wife. Come
with me to the priest.'

' But where is Kristel ? ' asked Slain,
his heart throbbing with joy. ' Does he
not know ? '

' Yes, he knows,' replied Avicia's father,
but, as you are aware, he had a sneaking
regard himself for my daughter, and he
thought he would feel more comfortable,
and you and Avicia too, if he were not
present at the ceremony. He bade me
give you his blessing.'

Satisfied with this — being, indeed,
naturally only too willing to be satisfied
the marriage 'ceremony took place, and
Slain and Avicia became man and wife.
They departed on their honeymoon, and
instructed the keeper of the lighthouse to
inform Kristel of their route, in order

that he might be able to join them at
any point he pleased.

Then came the interview between
Avicia's father and Kristel, in which the
young man was informed that he had lost
Avicia. Kristel was dismayed and furious
at what he believed to be the blackest
treachery on the part of his brother. He
swore to be revenged, and asked the road
they had taken. Avicia's father sent him
off in an entirely opposite direction, and
he set out in pursuit. Needless to say
that he soon found out how he had been
tricked, and that it infuriated him the more.
Not knowing where else to write to
Slain, he addressed a letter to him at
their home in Germany ; he himself did
not proceed thither, judging that his best
chance of meeting the married couple lay
near the village by the sea, to which he

felt convinced Slain and Avicia would
soon return. Therefore he lurked in the
vicinity of the village, and watched by day
and night the principal avenues by which
it was to be approached. But his judgment
was at . fault ; they did not return.

In the meantime the lovers were enjoying
their honeymoon. In order to keep faith
with Avicia's father in the bargain made
between him and Slain — which rendered
necessary the payment of a substantial sum
of money by a given time — it was imperative
that Slain should visit his boyhood s home,
to obtain his share of the inheritance left
to him and Kristel by their father. The
happy couple dallied by the way, and it was
not until three months after their marriage
that they arrived at Slain's birthplace.

' Perhaps we shall meet Kristel there,'
said Slain.

vol. 11. d

"Instead of meeting his brother, Slain
received the letter which Kristel had written
to him. It breathed the deepest hate, and
Slain had the unhappiness of reading the
outpourings of a relentless, vindictive spirit,
driven to despair by disappointed love.

"you have robbed me,' the letter said ;
'hour by hour, day by day, have you set
yourself deliberately to ensnare me and to
fill my life with black despair. Had I
suspected it at the time I would have
strangled you. But your fate is only postponed
; revenge is mine, and I hold it in
my soul as a sacred trust which I shall
fulfil. You shall die by my hands. Never
in this world or in the next will I forgive
you ! My relentless hate shall haunt and
pursue you, and you shall not escape it ! '

"And then the writer recorded an awful
oath that, while life remained within him,

his one sole aim should be to compass his
revenge. It was a lengthy letter, and
strong as is my description of it, it falls
short of the intense malignity which pervaded
every line. Kristel launched a curse
so terrible against his brother that Slain's
hair rose up in horror and fear as he read
it. These are Slain's own words to me :

' After reading Kristel's letter,' he said,
I felt that I was accursed, and that it
was destined that he should kill me.'

How to escape the terrible doom —
though he had scarcely a hope of averting
it — how to prevent the crime of bloodguiltiness
lying upon Kristel's soul : this
was thereafter the object of Slain's life.
It afforded him no consolation to know
that for the intense hate with which Kristel's
heart was filled Avicia's father was partly

responsible.

D 2

In its delineation of the trickery by
which Kristel had been robbed of Avicia
the letter was not truthful, for there had
occurred between the brothers a conversation
in which Slain had revealed his love
for her. Kristel's over-wrought feelings
probably caused him to forget this — or it
may have been a perversion of fact adopted
to give sanction to hate.

Kristel's letter was not the only
despairing greeting which awaited Slain
in the home of his boyhood. By some
unhappy means the inheritance left by his
father had melted away, and he found himself
a beggar. Thus he was unable to
carry out the terms of the bargain Avicia's
father had made with him. This part of
his misfortune did not greatly trouble him ;
it was but a just punishment to a grasping,
avaricious man ; but with beggary staring

him in the face, and his brother's curse and
awful design weighing upon him, his
situation was most dreadful and pitiable.

It was his intention to keep Kristel's
letter from the knowledge of Avicia, but
she secretly obtained possession of it, and
it filled her soul with an agonising fear.
They decided that it was impossible to
return to the village by sea.

' It is there my brother waits for us,'
said Slain.

So from that time they commenced a
wandering life, with the one dominant desire
to escape from Kristel.

I cannot enter now into a description of
the years that followed. They crept from
place to place, picking up a precarious
existence, and enduring great privations.
One morning Slain awoke, trembling and
afraid. ' I have seen Kristel,' he said.

She did not ask him how and
under what circumstances he had seen his
brother.

'she has discovered that we are here,
and is in pursuit of us,' Slain continued.
1 We must fly without delay.'

This was an added grief to Avicia.
The place in which Slain's dream of his
brother had been dreamt had afforded
them shelter and security for many weeks,
and she had begun to indulge in the hope
that they were safe. Vain hope ! They
must commence their wanderings again.
From that period, at various times, Slain
was visited by dreams in which he was
made acquainted with Kristel's movements
in so far as they affected him and Avicia
and the mission of vengeance upon which
Kristel was relentlessly bent. They made
their way to foreign countries, and even

there Kristel pursued them. And so
through the days and years continued the
pitiful flight and the merciless pursuit. In
darkness they wandered often, the shadow
of fate at their heels, in Avicia's imagination
lurking in the solitudes through which
they passed, amidst thickets of trees, in
hollows and ravines, waiting, waiting, waiting
to fall upon and destroy them ! An
appalling life, the full terrors of which the
mind can scarcely grasp.

At length, when worldly circumstances
pressed so heavily upon them that they
hardly knew where to look for the next
day's food, Avicia whispered to her husband
that she expected to become a mother,
and that she was possessed by an inexpressible
longing that her child should
be born where she herself first drew
breath. After the lapse of so many years

it appeared to Slain that the lighthouse
would be the likeliest place of safety,
and, besides, it was Avicia's earnest wish.
They were on the road thither when I
chanced upon them in the forest.

After reading Slain's letter I lost
as little time as possible in paying a visit
to the village by the sea. I took with
me some presents for the villagers, who
were unaffectedly glad to see me, and not
because of the gifts I brought for them.
There I heard what news they could impart
of the history of the lighthouse since
I last visited them. The disappointment
with respect to the money he expected
from Slain had rendered the keeper
more savage and morose than ever. For
years after the marriage of his daughter

he lived alone on the lighthouse, but
within the last twelve months he had
sent for a young man who was related
to him distantly, and who was now looking
after the lights. This young man was
deaf and dumb. What kind of comfort
the companionship of a man so
afflicted could be in such a home it is
difficult to say, but the new arrival came
in good time, for two months afterwards
Avicia's father slipped over some rocks in
the vicinity of the lighthouse, and so injured
himself that he could not rise from his bed.
Thus, when Slain and Avicia presented
themselves he could make no practical
resistance to their taking up their abode
with him. However it was, there they
were upon my present visit, and I went at
once to see them.

"They received me with a genuine

demonstration of feeling, and I was pleased
to see that they were looking better. Regular
food, and the secure shelter of a roof
from which they were not likely to be turned
away at a moment's notice, doubtless contributed
to this improvement. The pressure
of a dark terror was, however, still visible
in their faces, and during my visit I
observed Slain go to the outer gallery
at least three or four times, and scan the
surrounding sea with anxious eyes. To
confirm or dispel the impression I gathered
from this anxious outlook I questioned
Slain.

' I am watching for Kristel,' he saide

It is scarcely likely he will come to
you here,' I said.

' He is certain to come to me here
said Slain ; ' he is now on the road.'

' You know this from your dreams ? "

* Yes, my dreams assure me of it.
What wonder that I dream of the spirit
which has been hunting me for years in
the person of Kristel. I think of nothing
else. Waking or sleeping, he is ever before
me.'

' Should he come, what will you do,
Slain ? '

' I hardly know ; but at all hazards he
must, if possible, be prevented from effecting
an entrance into the lighthouse. It
would be the death of Avicia.'

He pronounced the words ' if possible '
with so much emphasis that I said :

' Surely that can be prevented.'

' I cannot be on the alert by night as
well as by day,' said Slain. ' My dread
is that at a time when I am sleeping he
will take me unaware. Hush ! Avicia is
coming up the stairs ; do not let her hear

us conversing upon a subject which has
been the terror of her life. She does not
know that I am constantly on the watch.'

In this belief he was labouring under a
delusion, for Avicia spoke to me privately
about it ; she was aware of the anxiety
which, she said, she was afraid was wearing
him away ; and indeed, as she made this
allusion, and I glanced at Slain, who was
standing in another part of the lighthouse,
I observed what had hitherto escaped me,
that his features were thinner, and that
there was a hectic flush upon them which,
in the light of his tragic story, too surely
told a tale of an inward fretting likely to
prove fatal. She told me that often in
the night when Slain was sleeping she
would rise softly and go to the gallery,
in fear that Kristel was stealthily approaching
them.

I saw her father. He gazed at me,
and did not speak — not that he was unable,
but because it was part of the cunning
of his nature. Slain informed me
that Avicia expected her baby in three
weeks from that day. I had not come
empty-handed, and I left behind me welcome
remembrances, promising to come
again the following week.

I kept my promise. Upon seeing mea
woman of the village ran towards me,
and whispered :

l Kristel is here.'

I followed the direction of her gaze,
which was simply one of curiosity, and
saw a man standing on the beach, facing
the lighthouse. I walked straight up to
him, and touched him with my hand. He
turned, and I recognised Kristel.

I recognised him — yes ; but not from

any resemblance he bore to the Kristel
of former days. Had I met him under
ordinary circumstances I should not have
known him. His thin face was covered
with hair ; his eyes were sunken and wild ;
his bony wrists, his long fingers, seemed to
be fleshless. I spoke to him, and mentioned
my name. He heard me, but did
not reply. I begged him to speak, and
he remained silent. After his first look
at me he turned from me, and stood
with his eyes in the direction of the
lighthouse. I would not accept his reception
of me ; I continued to address him ;
I asked him upon what errand he had
come, and why he kept his eyes so fixedly
upon the lighthouse. I gave him information
of myself, and said I should be
pleased to see him in my home — with a
vague and foolish hope that he would

accept the invitation, and that I might be
able to work upon his better nature.
And still no word came from him. I
did not dare to utter the name of either
Slain or Avicia, fearing that I should
awake the demon that had taken possession
of his soul.

By the time that I had exhausted
what I thought it wise and good to say,
I found myself falling into a kind of
fascination, produced by his motionless
attitude, and the fixed gaze in his unnaturally
brilliant eyes. It was a bright
day, and I knew that my imagination was
playing me a trick, but I saw clearly with
my mind's eye, the outer gallery of the
lighthouse, and the figure of Avicia standing
thereon, with her hair hanging loose,
and a scarlet covering on her head. Was
it a spiritual reflection of what this silent,

motionless man was gazing upon ? I shuddered,
and passed my hand across my eyes ;
the vision was gone — but he gazed upon
it still.

I was compelled at length to leave
him standing there upon the beach, and he
took no notice of my departure.

Others were observing him as well as
I, and had watched me with curiosity
during the time I stood by his side. When
I was among them they asked if he had
spoken to me.

* No,' I replied, ' I could get no word
from him.'

' Neither has he spoken to us,' they
said. ' Not a sound has passed his lips
since his arrival.'

"When did he arrive?' I inquired.

' Yesterday,' they answered, ' and our
first thought was that he would want a

vol. 11. f,

boat to row to the lighthouse, but he did
not ask for it. Surely he must wish to see
his brother ! There is something strange
about him, do you not think so ? One of
our women here insists that he is dumb.'

' He must be dumb,' said the woman ;
else why should he not speak ? '

' There was a jealousy between him
and his brother,' said an elderly woman,
'about Alicia

' What has that to do with it ? ' exclaimed
the woman who pronounced him
dumb. 'Jealousy, like love, does not
last for ever. She is not the only woman
in the world, and men have eyes. They
must have made up their quarrel long ago.
Besides, if he was jealous still, which isn't
in the least likely, that would not make
him dumb ! His tongue would be all the
looser for it.'

' More terrible,' thought I, ' is the
dread silence of that motionless man than
all the storms of wrath his tongue could
utter.'

From what the villagers said, I knew
that they were in ignorance of the hatred
which filled Kristel's heart, and I debated
within myself what it was best to do.
That the simple men of the village would
not voluntarily make themselves parties to
any scheme of blind vengeance on the part
of one brother against another I was certain,
but I was not satisfied that it would be
right to give them my whole confidence,
and tell them all I knew. At the same
time it would not be right to allow them
to remain in complete ignorance, for by so
doing they might be made unwittingly to
further Kristel's designs upon his brother's
life. There was a priest in the village, and

e 2

LIBRARY
UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS
AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

I went to him, and under the seal
of secrecy revealed something, but not
all, of the meaning of Kristel's appearance.


' Come with me,' he said.

I accompanied him, and once more stood
by the side of Kristel. The priest addressed
him, counselled him, exhorted him, and, like
myself, could obtain no word from him.
Kindlier speech I never heard, but it made
no impression upon Kristel.

' He must be dumb,' said the priest as
we moved away.

' Not so,' I said earnestly ; ' were he
dumb, and unable to hear what is said to
him, he would certainly indicate by some
kind of sign that speech addressed to him
was falling upon ears that were deaf. He
is possessed by a demoniac obduracy, and
his apparent indifference is but a part ot a

fell design to which I should be afraid to
give a name.'

The priest was impressed by this view
of the matter, which could not but appeal
successfully to a man's calm reason.

'what can I do?' he asked. " If a
man is determined not to speak, I have no
power to compel him.'

' It is in your power,' I said, ' to prevent
bloodshed.'

' Bloodshed ! ' he echoed, in a startled
tone.

11 ' Nothing less, I fear,' I said. ' Lay
an injunction upon the villagers not to lend
that man a boat, and not, under any pretext,
to row him to the lighthouse.'

* What dreadful thoughts do your words
suggest ! ' exclaimed the priest. ' They
alarm and bewilder me.'

' I am not at liberty to say more at

the present moment,' I said. ' I shall not
leave the village to-day. I myself will see
that man's brother, and will obtain permission
from him to reveal all I know.
Meanwhile give not that soul-tossed wretch
the opportunity of carrying out a scheme
of ruthless vengeance which he has harboured
for years.'

"tell me explicitly what you wish me
to do.'

* I have already told you. That man,
with the connivance or assistance of any
person in this village, must not be enabled
to get to the lighthouse.'

"'He shall not said the priest.

And he mixed with the villagers, men
and women, and laid upon them the
injunction I desired. With my mind thus
set at ease for at least a few hours, I
engaged a couple of boatmen to row me

to Slain. I half expected that Kristel
would come forward with a request, made
if not in speech in dumb show, to be
allowed to accompany me, and I had resolved
what action to take ; but he made no step
towards me. He gave no indication even
of a knowledge of what was taking place
within a dozen yards of him, although it
was not possible that the putting off of the
boat from the shore could have escaped
his observation.

' If he is not deaf and dumb,' said one
of the rowers, ' he must have gone clean
out of his senses.'

' Neither one nor the other,' thought I ;
he is nursing his vengeance, and has
decided upon some plan of action.'

Slain and Avicia were on the outer
gallery, and when I joined them Slain
drew me aside.

l You have news of Kristel,' he said.
I nodded, and he continued : ' I know
Without the telling. He is in the village.'

' Who informed you ? ' I asked.

' No human,' he replied, with a sad
smile. ' I see him standing upon the beach,
looking towards us

"In truth that was a physical impossibility,
but I needed no further proof of the
mysterious insight with which Slain was
gifted. I related to him all that had passed
between me and Kristel and the priest, and
of the precautions taken to keep from Kristel
the means of reaching the lighthouse.

' That will not prevent him from coming,
said Slain ; ' he is a fine swimmer. I
myself, were I desperately pushed to it,
would undertake to swim to the village.
You hold to your promise. You hold to
your promise, Louis, with respect to Avicia ?

' It is binding upon me,' I replied ;
my word is given.'

' Faithful friend ! Neither will my child
be left without a counsellor. Louis, I shall
never see the face of my child — I shall never
feel his little hands about my neck ! '

' Were it not for the tender sympathy
I have for you,' I said in a tone of reproof,
I should feel inclined to be angry. Did
you not confess to me in former days that
you could not see into the future ? And
here you are, raising up ghosts to make
the present more bitter than it is. No,
no, Slain. Black as things appear, there
are bright years yet in store for you.'

' I cannot help my forebodings, Louis.
True, I cannot, nor can any man, see into
the future, but what can I do to turn my
brother's hate from me?' It was a cry of
anguish wrung from his suffering heart. ' I

think of the days of our childhood, when we
strolled in the woods with our arms round
each other's necks, I think of the dreams we
mapped of the future. Running water by
the side of which we sat, bending over to see
our faces, and making our lips meet in a
shadowed kiss, flowers we picked in field and
meadow, errands of mercy we went upon
together, twilight communing, the little
sweethearts w r e had — all these innocent
ways of childhood rise before me, and fill
me with anguish. What can I do ? — what
can I do to bring him back to me in
brotherly love ? Louis, I have a fear that
I have never whispered to living soul. It
is that Avicia may have twin children, as
Kristel and I are, and they should grow upto
be as we are now ! Would it not be
better that they should be born dead, or die
young, when their souls are not stained with

hatred of each other and with evil thoughts
that render existence a curse ? '

We were alone when he gave expression
to his agonised feelings ; Avicia had left us
to attend to domestic duties. I could say
nothing to comfort him ; to harp upon one
string of intended consolation to a man who
is in no mood to accept it becomes, after a
time, an oppression. He paced up and
down, twining his fingers convulsively, and
presently said,

' It would be too much, Louis, to ask
you to remain with me a little while ? '

' No,' I replied, 'it would not. Indeed,
it was partly in my mind to suggest it. The
crisis you have dreaded for many years has
come, and if you wish me to stop with you a
day or two I will willingly do so. It may be
I do not know how — that I can be of
service to you. The boatmen are waiting

in the boat below. I will write a letter to
my wife, and they shall post it, informing her
that I shall be absent from home perhaps
until the end of the week, by which time I
hope the cloud will have passed away. No
thanks, Slain ; friendship would be a poor
and valueless thing if one shrank from a
sacrifice so slight.'

I wrote my letter, and despatched it by
the boatmen. Then we waited for events ;
it was all that it was in our power to do.

Avicia was very glad when she heard of
my intention to remain with them a while.

' Your companionship will do him good,'
she said. e He has no one but me to talk
to, and he speaks of but one subject. If

this continues long he will lose his reason.'

11 The day passed, and night came on.

There was but scanty living accommodation

in the lighthouse, but a mattress was spread

for me upon the floor of the tiny kitchen ;
and there I was to sleep. Avicia and Slain
wished me to occupy their bed, but I would
not have it so. Before retiring to rest,
Slain and I passed two or three hours in
converse ; I purposely led the conversation
into foreign channels, and when I wished
him good-night I was rejoiced to perceive
that I had succeeded for a brief space in
diverting his mind from the fears which
weighed so heavily upon him.

Nothing occurred during the night to
disturb us ; I awoke early, and lay waiting
for sunrise ; but no light came, and when,
aroused by Slain, I left my bed and went
to the outer gallery, I was surprised to see
that all surrounding space was wrapt in a
thick mist.

' A great storm will soon be upon us
said Slain.

"He was right ; before noon the storm
burst, and the sea was lashed into fury. It
was a relief to see the play of lightning upon
the angry waters, but it was terrible too, and
I thought how awful and joyless a lone life
must be when spent in such a home. This
second day seemed as if it would never end,
and it was only by my watch that I knew of
the approach of night. With the sounds of
the storm in my ears I lay down upon my
mattress and fell asleep.

I know not at what time of the night
I awoke, but with black darkness upon and
around me, I found myself sitting up, listening
to sounds without which did not proceed
from the conflict of the elements. At first
I could not decide whether they were real
or but the refrain of a dream by which I
had been disturbed ; soon, however,
I received indisputable evidence that

they were not the creations of my
fancy.

c Kristel ! For God's sake, listen to me ! '
The voice was Slain's, and the words
were uttered in outer space. When I
retired to rest I had lain down in my
clothes, removing only my coat, and using
it as a covering. I quickly put it on, and
lit a lamp, to which a chain was attached,
by which means it could be held over the
walls of the lighthouse. The lamp was
scarcely lighted, when Avicia, but half dressed,
rushed into the little room.

' Slain ! ' she cried. ' Where is Slain ? '
Her eyes wandered round the room,
seeking him. At that moment the voice from
without pierced the air.

' Kristel ! Oh, my brother, listen to me ! '
I threw my arms round Avicia, and
held her fast.

' Why do you hold me ? ' she screamed.
Are you, too, leagued against us ? Slain !
Slain ! '

"It needed all my strength to restrain her
from rushing out in her wild delirium, perhaps
to her destruction. I whispered to her
hurriedly that I intended to go to the outer
gallery, and that she should accompany me ;
and also that if she truly wished to be of
assistance to her husband she must be calm.
She ceased instantly to struggle, and said ina
tone of suppressed excitement,
' Come, then.'

I did not quit my hold of her, but I used
now only one hand, which I clasped firmly
round her wrist, my other being required for
the lantern. The next moment we were
standing upon the gallery, bending over. It
was pitch dark, and we could see nothing ;
even the white spray of the waves, as they

dashed against the stone walls, was not visible
to us ; but we heard Slain's voice, at intervals,
appealing in frenzied tones to Kristel,
who, it needed not the evidence of sight to
know, was holding on to the chains and struggling
with his brother. How the two came
into that awful position was never discovered,
and I could only judge by inference that
Kristel, in the dead of this deadly night, had
made his way by some means to the lighthouse,
and was endeavouring to effect an
entrance, when Slain, awakened by his
attempts, had gone out to him, and was
instantly seized and dragged down.

So fearful and confused were the minutes
that immediately followed that I have but an
indistinct impression of the occurrences of
the time, which will live ever within me as
the most awful in my life. I know that I
never lost my grasp of Avicia, and that but

VOL. II. f

for me she would have flung herself over the
walls ; I know that the brothers were engaged
in a struggle for life and death, and that
Slain continued to make the most pathetic
appeals to Kristel to listen to him, and not to
stain his soul with blood ; I know that in
those appeals there were the tenderest references
to their boyhood's days, to the love
which had existed between them, each for
the other, to trivial incidents in their childhood,
to their mother who worshipped them
and was now looking down upon them, to
the hopes in which they had indulged of a
life of harmony and affection ; I know that it
struck me then as most terrible that during
the whole of the struggle no word issued
from Kristel's lips ; I know that there were
heartrending appeals from Avicia to Kristel
to spare her husband, and that there were
tender cries from her to Slain, and from

Slain to her ; I know that, finding a loose
chain on the gallery, I lowered it to the
combatants, and called out to Slain —
foolishly enough, in so far as he could avail
himself of it — to release himself from his
brother's arms and seize it, and that I and
Avicia would draw him up to safety ; I know
that in one vivid flash of lightning I saw the
struggling forms and the beautiful white
spray of the waves ; I know that Slain's
voice grew fainter and fainter until it was
heard no more ; I know that there was the
sound of a heavy body or bodies falling into
the sea, that a shriek of woe and despair
clove my heart like a knife, and that Avicia
lay in my arms moaning and trembling. I
bore her tenderly into her room, and laid heron
her bed.

The storm ceased ; no sound was heard
without. The rising sun filled the eastern

f 2

horizon with loveliest hues of saffron and
crimson. The sea was calm ; there was no
trace of tempest and human agony. By that
time Avicia was a mother, and lay with her
babes pressed to her bosom. Slain's fear
was realised : he was the dead father of twin
brothers.

"The assistant whom Avicia's father had
engaged rowed me to the village, and there
I enlisted the services of a woman, who
accompanied me back to the lighthouse, and
attended to Avicia. The mother lived but
two days after the birth of her babes. Until
her last hour she was delirious, but then she
recovered her senses and recognised me.

' My dear Slain told me,' she said, in a
weak, faint voice, ' that you would be a friend
to our children. Bless the few moments
remaining to me by assuring me that you
will not desert them.'

I gave her the assurance for which she
yearned, and she desired me to call them by
the names of Eric and Emilius. It rejoiced
me that she passed away in peace ; strange
as it may seem, it was an inexpressible relief
to her bruised heart that the long agony was
over. Her last words were,

' I trust you. God will reward you ! '

And so, with her nerveless hand in mine,
her spirit went out to her lover and husband.

"We buried her in the village churchyard,
and the day was observed as a day of mourning
in that village by the sea.

I thought I could not do better than
leave the twin babes for a time in the charge
of the woman I had engaged, and it occurred
to me that it might not be unprofitable to
have some inquiries and investigation made
with respect to the inheritance left by their
grandfather to his sons Kristel and Slain.

I placed the matter in the hands of a shrewd
lawyer, and he was enabled to recover a
portion of what was due to their father.
This was a great satisfaction to me, as it to
some extent provided for the future 01 Eric
and Emilius, and supplied the wherewithal for
their education. It was my intention, when
they arrived at a certain age, to bring them
to my home in Nerac, and treat them as
children of my own, but a difficulty cropped
up for which I was not prepared and which
I could not surmount. Avicia's father, learning
that I had recovered a portion of Slain's
inheritance, demanded from me an account of
it, and asserted his rights as the natural
guardian of his grandchildren. There was
no gainsaying the demand, and I was compelled
reluctantly to leave Eric and Emilius
in his charge. I succeeded, however, in
prevailing upon him to allow them to pay me

regular visits of long duration, so that a close
intimacy of affectionate friendship has been
established between them and the members
of my family. Here ends my story — a
strange and eventful one, you will admit. I
often think of it in wonder, and this is the
first time a full recital of it has passed my
lips. ,,

Such a story, which Doctor Louis truly
described as strange and eventful, could not
have failed to leave a deep impression upon
me. During its recital I had, as it were,
been charmed out of myself. My instinctive
distrust of the twin brothers Eric and Emilius,
the growth of a groundless jealousy, was fora
while forgotten, and at the conclusion of
the recital I was lost in the contemplation of
the tragic pictures which had been presented
to my mind's eye. Singularly enough, the
most startling bit of colour in these pictures,
that of the two brothers in their life and

death struggle on the outer walls of the lighthouse,
was not to me the dominant feature of
the remarkable story. The awful, unnatural
contest, Alicia agony, Slain's soul-moving
appeals, and the dread silence of Kristel — all
this was as nought in comparison with the
figure of a solitary man standing on the seashore,
gazing in the direction of his lost
happiness. I traced his life back through
the years during which he was engaged in
his relentless pursuit of the brother who had
brought desolation into his life. In him, and
in him alone, was centred the true pathos of
the story ; it was he who had been robbed,
it was he who had been wronged. No
deliberate act of treachery lay at his door ; he
loved, and had been deceived. Those in
whom he placed his trust had deliberately
betrayed him. The vengeance he sought
and consummated was just.

I did not make Doctor Louis acquainted
with my views on the subject, knowing that
he would not agree with me, and that all his
sympathies were bestowed upon Slain.
There was something of cowardice in this
concealment of my feelings, but although I
experienced twinges of conscience for my
want of courage, it was not difficult for me
to justify myself in my own eyes. Doctor
Louis was the father of the woman I loved,
and in his hands lay my happiness. On no
account must I instil doubt into his mind ;
he was a man of decided opinions, dogmatic,
and strong-willed. No act or word of mine
must cause him to have the least distrust of
me. Therefore I played the cunning part,
and was silent with respect to those threads
in the story which possessed the firmest hold
upon his affections.

This enforced silence accentuated and

strengthened my view. Slain and Avicia
were weak, feeble creatures. The man of
great heart and resolute will, the man whose
sufferings and wrongs made him a martyr, was
Kristel. Faithful in love, faithful in hate.
Trustful, heroic, unflinching. In a word, a man.
But he and his brother, and the woman
who had been the instrument of their fate,
belonged to the past. They were dead and
gone, and in the presence of Doctor Louis I
put them aside a while. Time enough to
think of them when I was alone. Meanwhile
Eric and Emilius remained. They
lived, and between their lives and mine there
was a link. Of this I entertained no doubt,
nor did I doubt that, in this connection, the
future would not be colourless for us. To be
prepared for the course which events might
take : this was now my task and my duty.
The thought was constantly in my mind.

"As Kristel acted, so would I act, in love
and hate."

I observed Doctor Louis's eyes fixed
earnestly upon my face.

You are agitated," he said.

Is not such a story," I said evasively,
"enough to agitate one? Its movements
are as the movements of a sublime tragedy."

True," mused Doctor Louis; "even in
obscure lives may be found such elements."

"You have told me little," I said, "of
Eric and Emilius. Do they reside permanently
in the lighthouse in which their
mother died ? "

They have a house in the village by
the sea," replied Doctor Louis, " and they
are in a certain sense fishermen on a arose
scale. The place has possessed for them a
fascination, and it seemed as if they would
never be able to tear themselves away

from it. But their intimate association with
it will soon be at an end."

In what way ? "

11 They have sold their house and boats,
and are coming to reside in Nerac for a time."

I started and turned aside, for I did not
wish Doctor Louis to see the cloud upon
my face.

Only for a time ? " I inquired.

It depends upon circumstances'' said
Doctor Louis. "If they are happy and
contented in the present and in their prospects
in the future, they will remain.
Otherwise, they will seek a larger sphere."

Is this their idea?"

Not theirs alone. I am partly responsible.
We have talked of it often, and I
have urged them not to waste their lives
in a village so small and primitive as that
in which they were born."

Somewhat destructive of your own
theories of happiness, doctor," I observed.
(i Yourself, for instance, wasting your life ina
small place like Nerac, when by your gifts
you are so well fitted to play your part ina
large city."

I am selfish, I am afraid," he said with
a deprecatory smile, " and am too much
wrapped up in my own ease and comfort.
At the same time you must bear in mind
that mine is an exceptional case. It is a
regretful thing to be compelled to say that
the majority of lives and homes are less
happy than my own. Often there is love,
and poverty stands at the bright door which
opens but on a scene of privation and ill-requited
toil. Often there is wealth, in the
use of which there has been an endeavour
to purchase love, which, my friend, is not a
marketable commodity. Often there are

sorrow and sickness, and neither faith nor
patience to lighten the load. It is my
good fortune to have none of these ills.
We have love and good health, and a
sufficient share of worldly prosperity to
provide for our days. Therefore I will
leave myself out of the question. " What ! '
he cried, interrupting himself in a tone at
once light and earnest ; " am I entirely
useless in Nerac ? Do I do no good
whatever ? "

"You do much," I said, "and also do
Eric and Emilius in their village. You have
admitted that they are fishermen on a large
scale, and possess boats. Consequently they
employ labour, and the wages they pay
support the homes of those who serve
them."

With some young men," said Doctor
Louis, with a good-humoured laugh, V there

is no arguing. They are so keen in defence
that they have a formidable parry for every
thrust. To the point, then, without argument.
Eric and Emilius have in them
certain qualities which render me doubtful
whether, as middle-aged men, they would be
in their proper sphere in their village by the
sea. The maidens there find no serious
favour in their eyes."

Do they look' I asked, with a
torturing pang of jealousy, " with a more
appreciative eye upon the maidens in
Nerac ? "

Tush, tush," said Doctor Louis, in a
kind tone, laying his hand upon my shoulder ;
vex not yourself unnecessarily. Youth's
hot blood is a torrent, restless by day and
night, never satisfied, never content, forever
seeking cause to fret and fume. You
have given evidence of wisdom, Gabriel —

exercise it when it is most needed. You are
still disturbed. Well, question me."

Of all the maidens in Nerac," I said,
striving to speak with calmness, " Lauretta
is the fairest and sweetest."

Go on, my friend. I, her father, will
not gainsay you."

Is it because she is fairer and sweeter
than any Eric and Emilius have seen in the
village by the sea that they quit their home
there, and come to live in Nerac ? "

"A plain question. Were I simply an
ordinary friend of yours, and not Lauretta's
father, I might feel inclined to play with
you ; but as it is, my happiness here is
too largely at stake. Do not fall into
error, Gabriel. Viewing with a selfish
eye — a human failing, common enough —
your own immediate affairs, forget not that
I, Lauretta's father, am as deeply concerned

VOL. II. g

in them as yourself. Never would I be
guilty of the crime of forcing my child's
affections. Do you think I love her less
than you do ? If it should be your happy
fate to be a father, you will learn how
much purer and higher is the love of a
father than that which a young man,
after an hour's acquaintance, bears for the
maiden whom he would wed."

After an hour's acquaintance ! " I exclaimed,
somewhat hotly.

It cannot be said to be more," responded
Doctor Louis gravely, " compared with my
knowledge of my child."

The retort was well-merited, and I murmured,
" Forgive me ! " The consistently
sweet accents of Doctor Louis's voice produced
in me, at this moment, a feeling of self-reproach,
and a true sense of my petulance
and imperiousness forced itself upon me.

There is little need to ask forgiveness,"
said Doctor Louis ; " I can make full allowance
for the impetuous passions of youth,
and if I wish you to place a curb upon them
it is for your welfare and that of my child.
Indulgence in such extravagances leads to
injustice. Gabriel, I will be entirely frank
with you. Before your arrival in Nerac I
had a slight suspicion that one of the brothers
towards both of whom I feel as a father —
had an affection for Lauretta which might
have ripened into love. It is in the nature
of things that a beautiful girl should inspire
a sentiment in the breasts of more than one
man, but she can belong only to one, to him
to whom her heart is drawn. What passed
between us when you spoke to me as a lover
of my daughter was honest and outspoken.
The encouragement you received from me
would have been withheld had it not been

G 2

that I saw you occupied a place in Lauretta's
heart, and that the one end and aim I have
in view is her happiness."

Is it too much to ask," I said, " to which
of the brothers you referred ? "

Altogether too much," replied Doctor
Louis. te It is an unrevealed secret, and the
right is not mine to say more than I have
said."

I did not speak for a little while ; I was
the slave of conflicting passions. One
moment I believed entirely in Doctor Louis ;
another moment I doubted him ; and through
all I was oppressed by a consciousness that
I was doing him an injustice.

Anything more, Gabriel ? " he asked.
Nothing special, sir," was my reply,
but in a general way."
Well ? "

II Born under such singular circumstances,

and of such a father as Slain, it would not
be unnatural to suppose that they might
inherit some touch of his strangely
sympathetic nature."

They have inherited it," said Doctor
Louis ; " there exists between them a
sympathy as strange as that which existed
in Slain. I am at liberty to say nothing
more."

He spoke in a firm tone, and I did not
question him further. As I accompanied him
home we conversed upon general subjects,
and I took pains to convey to him an
assurance that there was nothing really
serious in the ungracious temper I had displayed.
He was relieved at this, and we
fell into our old confidential manner with
each other.

I passed the evening, as usual, in the
society of his wife and Lauretta. Peace

descended upon me, and in the sweet presence
of these pure women I was tranquil and
happy. How lovely, how beautiful was this
home of love and tender thought ! The
wild storms of life died away, and strains of
soft, angelic music melted the heart, and
made themselves heard even in the midst of
the silences. Doctor Louis's gaiety returned
to him ; he smiled upon me, and indulged in
many a harmless jest. I was charmed out
of my moody humour, and contributed to
the innocent enjoyment of the home circle.
The hours passed till it was near bed-time,
and then it was that a change came over me.
Sitting by Lauretta's side, turning the pages
of an illustrated book of travel, I heard the
names of Eric and Emilius spoken by Doctor
Louis. He was telling his wife of the
impending change in their mode of life, and
there was an affectionate note in his voice,

and also in hers, which jarred upon me. I
started to my feet, and they all turned tome
in surprise. I recovered myself in a
moment, and explained that I had suddenly
thought of something which rendered it
necessary that I should go at once to the
house I had taken, and of which Martin
Hartog was at present the sole custodian.

But you were not to leave us till the
end of the week, ,, expostulated Lauretta's
mother. " Is it so very important?"

Indeed it is," I replied, " and should
have been attended to earlier."

11 You will return ? " she asked.

Not to-night. You need have no anxiety ;
everything is prepared, and I shall be quite
comfortable."

My wife is thinking of the sheets,"
observed Doctor Louis jocosely ; " whether
they are properly aired."

I have seen to that," she said, " and
there is a fire in every room."

Then we can safely let him go," rejoined
Doctor Louis. " He is old enough to take
care of himself, and, besides, he is now a
householder, and has duties. We shall see
you tomorrow, Gabriel ? "

Yes, I shall be here in the morning."

So I wished them good-night, and
presently was out in the open, walking
through dark shadows.

In solitude I reviewed with amazement
the occurrences of the last few moments. It
seemed to me that I had been impelled todo
what I had done by an occult agency
outside myself. Not that I did not approve
of it. It was in accordance with my intense
wish and desire — which had lain dormant in
the sweet society of Lauretta — to be alone,
in order that I might, without interruption,
think over the story I had heard from Doctor
Louis's lips. And now that this wish and
desire were gratified, the one figure which
still rose vividly before me was the figure of

Kristel. As I walked onward I followed the
hapless man mentally in his just pursuit of
the brother who had snatched the cup of
happiness from his lips. Yes, it was just
and right, and what he did I would have
done under similar circumstances. Of all
who had taken part in the tragic drama he,
and he alone, commanded my sympathy.

The distance from Doctor Louis's house to
mine was under two miles, but I prolonged
it by a detour which brought me, without
premeditation, to the inn known as the Three
Black Crows. I had no intention of going
there or of entering the inn, and yet, finding
myself at the door, I pushed it open, and
walked into the room in which the customers
took their wine. This room was furnished
with rough tables and benches, and I seated
myself, and in response to the landlord's
inquiry, ordered a bottle of his best, and

invited him to share it with me. He, nothing
loth, accepted the invitation, and sat at the
table, emptying his glass, which I continued
to fill for him, while my own remained untasted.
I had been inside the Three Black
Crows on only one occasion, in the company
of Doctor Louis, and the landlord now expressed
his gratitude for the honour I did
him by paying him another visit. It was
only the sense of his words which reached
my ears, my attention being almost entirely
drawn to two men who were seated at a
table at the end of the room, drinking bad
wine and whispering to each other. Observing
my eyes upon them, the landlord said ina
low tone, " Strangers."

You do not know them ?" I asked.

Never saw them before," he replied.

Their backs were towards me, and I could
not see their faces, but I noticed that one

was humpbacked, and that, to judge from
their attire, they were poor peasants.

I asked them," said the landlord,
whether they wanted a bed, and they
answered no, that they were going further.
If they had stopped here the night I should
have kept watch on them ! "

Why ? "

I don't like their looks, and my wife's a
timorous creature. Then there's the children
you've seen my little ones, I think,
sir r

"Yes, I have seen them. Surely those
men would do them no harm ! "

Perhaps not, sir ; but a man, loving those
near to him, thinks of the possibilities of
things. I've got a bit of money in the
house, to pay my rent that's due tomorrow,
and one or two other accounts. They may
have got scent of it."

Do you think they have come to Deacon
a robbing expedition ? "

11 There's no telling. Roguery has a plain
face, and the signs are in theirs, or my name's
not what it is. When they said they were
going further on I asked them where, and
they said it was no business of mine. They
gave me the same answer when I asked
them where they came from. They're upto
no good, that's certain, and the sooner
they're out of the village the better for all
of us."

The more the worthy landlord talked the
more settled became his instinctive conviction
that the strangers were rogues.

"If robbery is their errand," I said thoughtfully,
" there are houses in Nerac which
would yield them a better harvest than
yours."

Of course there is," was his response.

Doctor Louis's, for one. He has generally
some money about him, and his silver plate
would be a prize. Are you going back there
to-night, sir ?"

"No; I am on my road to my own house,
and I came out of the way a little for the
sake of the walk."

That's my profit, sir," said the landlord
cheerfully. " I would offer to keep you
company if it were not that I don't like
to leave my place."

There's nothing to fear," I said ; " if they
molest me I shall be a match for them."

Still," urged the landlord, " I should
leave before they do. It's as well to avoid a
difficulty when we have the opportunity.' 7

I took the hint, and paid my score. To
all appearance there was no reason for alarm
on my part ; during the time the landlord
and I were conversing the strangers had not

turned in our direction, and as we spoke in
low tones they could not have heard what
we said. They remained in the same
position, with their backs towards us, now
drinking in silence, now speaking in whispers
to each other.

Outside the Three Black Crows I walked
slowly on, but I had not gone fifty yards
before I stopped. What was in my mind
was the reference made by the landlord to
Doctor Louis's house and to its being worth
the plundering. The doctor's house contained
what was dearer to me than life or
fortune. Lauretta was there. Should I
leave her at the mercy of these scoundrels
who might possibly have planned a robbery
of the doctor's money and plate ? In that
case Lauretta would be in danger. My mind
was instantly made up. I would return to
the Three Black Crows, and look through

the window of the room in which I had left
the men, to ascertain whether they were still
there. If they were, I would wait for them
till they left the inn, and then would set a
watch upon their movements. If they were
gone I would hasten to the doctor's house,
to render assistance, should any be needed.
I had no weapon, with the exception of a
small knife ; could I not provide myself with
something more formidable ? A few paces
from where I stood were some trees with
stout branches. I detached one of these
branches, and with my small knife fashioned
it into a weapon which would serve my
purpose. It was about four feet in length,
thick at the striking end and tapering
towards the other, so that it could be held
with ease and used to good purpose. I tried
it on the air, swinging it round and bringing
it down with sufficient force to kill a manor

with certainty to knock the senses out of
him in one blow. Then I returned to the
inn, and looked through the window. In the
settlement of my proceedings I had remembered
there was a red blind over the window
which did not entirely cover it, and through
the uncovered space I now saw the strangers
sitting at the table as I had left them.

Taking care to make no noise I stepped
away from the window, and took up a
position from which I could see the door of
the inn, which was closed. I myself was Jn
complete darkness, and there was no moon
to betray me ; all that was needed from me
was caution.

I watched fully half an hour before the
door of the inn was opened. No person had
entered during my watch, the inhabitants of
Nerac being early folk for rest and work.
The two strangers lingered for a moment

VOL. II. H

upon the threshold, peering out into the
night ; behind them was the landlord, with
a candle in his hand. I did not observe that
any words passed between them and the
landlord ; they stepped into the road, and
the door was closed upon them. Then came
the sounds of locking and bolting doors and
windows. Then, silence.

I saw the faces of the men as they stood
upon the threshold ; they were evil-looking
fellows enough, and their clothes were of
the commonest.

For two or three minutes they did not
stir ; there had been nothing in their manner
to arouse suspicion, and the fact of their
lingering on the roadway seemed to denote
that they were uncertain of the route they
should take. That they raised their faces
to the sky was not against them ; it was
a natural seeking for light to guide them.

To the left lay the little nest of buildings
amongst which were Father Daniel's chapel
and modest house, and the more pretentious
dwelling of Doctor Louis ; to the right were
the woods, at the entrance of which my
own house was situated. Which road
would the strangers take ? The left, and
it was part evidence of a guilty design.
The right, and it would be part proof that
the landlord's suspicions were baseless.

They exchanged a few words which did
not reach my ears. Then they moved
onwards to the left. I grasped my weapon,
and crept after them.

But they walked only a dozen steps, and
paused. I, also. In my mind was the
thought, u Continue the route you have
commenced, and you are dead men. Turn
from it, and you are safe."

The direction of the village was the more

h 2

tempting to men who had no roof to shelter
them, for the reason that in Father Daniel's
chapel — which, built on an eminence, overlooked
the village — lights were visible from

o o

the spot upon which I and they were standing.
There was the chance of a straw bed
and charity's helping hand, never withheld
by the good priest from the poor and
wretched. On their right was dense darkness
; not a glimmer of light.

Nevertheless, after the exchange of a few
more words which, like the others, were
unheard by me, they seemed to resolve to
seek the gloomier way. They turned from
the village, and facing me, walked past mein
the direction of the woods.

I breathed more freely, and fell into a
curious mental consideration of the relief I
experienced. Was it because, walking as
they were from the village in which Lauretta

was sleeping, I was spared the taking of
these men's lives ? No. It was because of
the indication they afforded me that Lauretta
was not in peril. In her defence I could
have justified the taking of a hundred lives.
No feeling of guilt would have haunted me ;
there would have been not only no remorse
but no pity in my soul. The violation of the
most sacred of human laws would be justified
where Lauretta was concerned. She was
mine, to cherish, to protect, to love — mine,
inalienably. She belonged to no other man,
and none should step between her and me —
neither he whose ruffianly design threatened
her with possible harm, nor he, in a higher
and more polished grade, who strove to win
her affections and wrest them from me. In
an equal way both were equally my enemies,
and I should be justified in acting by them
as Kristel had acted to Slain.

Ah, but he had left it too late. Not so
would I. Let but the faintest breath of
certainty wait upon suspicion, and I would
scotch it effectually for once and all. Had
Kristel possessed the strange power in his
hours of dreaming which Slain possessed,
he would not have been robbed of the happiness
which was his by right. He would
have been forewarned, and Avicia would
have been his wife. In every step in life he
took there would have been the fragrance of
flowers around him, and a heavenly light.
Thus, with me, and for me.

Did I, then, admit that there was any
resemblance in the characters of Avicia and
Lauretta ? No ; one was a weed, the other
a rose. Here coarseness, there refinement.
Here low desire and cunning ; there angelic
purity and goodness. But immeasurably
beneath Lauretta as Avicia was, Kristel's

love for the girl would have made her
radiant and spotless.

All this time I was stealthily following the
strangers to the woods. Once I tripped.
The sound arrested them ; they clutched
each other in fear.

"What was that?" one said hoarsely.
Are we being followed ? "

I stood motionless, and they stood without
movement for many moments. Then they
simultaneously emitted a deep-drawn sigh.

It was the wind," said the man who .had
already spoken.

I smiled in contempt ; not a breath of
wind was stirring ; there was not the flutter
of a leaf, not the waving of the lightest
branch. All was still and quiet.

They resumed their course, and I crept
after them noiselessly. They entered the
wood ; the trees grew more thickly clustered.

This will do," I heard one say ; and upon
the words they threw themselves to the
ground, and fell into slumber.

Sleep came to them instantaneously. I
bent over them and was satisfied. The landlord
of the Three Black Crows was mistaken.
I moved softly away, and when I was at a
safe distance from them I lit a match and
looked at my watch ; it was twenty minutes
to eleven, and before the minute-hand had
passed the hour I arrived at my house.
The door was fast, but I saw a light in the
lower room of the gardener's cottage, which
I had given to Martin Hartog as a residence
for him and his daughter.

Hartog is awake," I thought ; " expecting
me perhaps."

I knocked at the door of the cottage, and
received no answer ; I knocked again with
the same result.

"Hartog! Hartog!" I called; and still no
answer came.

The door had fastenings of lock and
latch. I put my hand to the latch, and
finding that the key had not been turned
in the lock, opened the door and entered.
Martin Hartog was not there.

The room, however, was not without an
occupant. At the table sat a young girl, the
gardener's daughter, asleep. She lay back in
her chair, and the light shone upon her face.
I had seen her when she was awake, and
knew that she was beautiful, but as I gazed
now upon her sleeping form I was surprised
to discover that she was even fairer than I
had supposed. She had hair of dark brown,
which curled most gracefully about her brow
and head ; her face, in its repose, was sweet
to look upon ; she was not dressed as the
daughter of a labouring man, but with a

certain daintiness and taste which deepened
my surprise ; there was lace at her sleeves
and around her white neck. Had I not
known her station I should have taken her
for a lady. She was young, not more than
eighteen or nineteen I judged, and life's
springtime lay sweetly upon her. There was
a smile of wistful tenderness on her lips.

Her left arm was extended over the table,
and her hand rested upon the portrait of a
man, almost concealing the features. Her
right hand, which was on her lap, enfolded a
letter, and that and the portrait — which,
without curious prying, I saw was not that
of her father — doubtless were the motive of
a pleasant dream,

I took in all this in a momentary glance,
and quickly left the room, closing the door
behind me. Then I knocked loudly and
roughly, and heard the hurried movements of

a sudden awaking. She came to the door
and cried softly, " Is that you, father? The
door is unlocked."

It is I," I said. " Is your father not at
home then ?

She opened the door, and fell back a step
in confusion.

I should have let your father know," I
said, " that I intended to sleep here to-night
but indeed it was a hasty decision. I hope
I have not alarmed you."

Oh, no, sir," she said. u We did not
expect you. Father is away on business ;
I expected him home earlier, and waiting
for him I fell asleep. The servants are not
coming till tomorrow morning."

I know. Have you the keys ? "

She gave them to me, and asked if she
could do anything for me. I answered no,
that there was nothing required. As I

wished her good-night a man's firm steps
were heard, and Martin Hartog appeared.
He cast swift glances at his daughter and me,
and it struck me that they were not devoid
of suspicion. I explained matters, and he
appeared contented with my explanation ;
then bidding his daughter go indoors he
accompanied me to the house.

There was a fire in my bedroom, almost
burnt out, and the handiwork of an affectionate
and capable housewife was everywhere
apparent. Martin Hartog showed an inclination
then and there to enter into particulars
of the work he had done in the grounds
during my absence, but I told him I was
tired, and dismissed him. I listened to his
retreating footsteps, and when I heard the
front door closed I blew out the candle and
sat before the dying embers in the grate.
Darkness was best suited to my mood, and I

sat and mused upon the events of the last
forty-eight hours. Gradually my thoughts
became fixed upon the figures of the two
strangers I had left sleeping in the woods,
in connection with the suspicion of their
designs which the landlord had imparted tome.
So concentrated was my attention that
I re-enacted all the incidents of which they
were the inspirers — the fashioning of the
branch into a weapon, the watch I had set
upon them, their issuing from the inn, the
landlord standing behind with the candle in
his hand, their lingering in the road, the first
steps they took towards the village, their
turning back, and my stealthy pursuit after
them — not the smallest detail was omitted.
I do not remember undressing and going to
bed. Encompassed by silence and darkness
I was only spiritually awake.

I was aroused at about eight o'clock in the
morning by the arrival of the servants of
the household whom Lauretta's mother had
engaged for me, They comprised a housekeeper,
who was to cook and generally
superintend, and two stout wenches to do
the rougher work. In such a village as
Nerac these, in addition to Martin Hartog,
constituted an establishment of importance.

They had been so well schooled by
Lauretta's mother before commencing the
active duties of their service, that when I
rose I found the breakfast-table spread, and

the housekeeper in attendance to receive my
orders. This augured well, and I experienced
a feeling of satisfaction at the prospect of the
happy life before me. Like mother, like
daughter. Lauretta would be not only a
sweet and loving companion, but the same
order and regularity would reign in our home
as in the home of her childhood. I blessed
the chance, if chance it was, which had led
me to Nerac, and as I paced the room
and thought of Lauretta, I said audibly,
"Thank God!"

Breakfast over, I strolled into the grounds,
and made a careful inspection of the work
which Martin Hartog had performed. The
conspicuous conscientiousness of his labours
added to my satisfaction, and I gave expression
to it. He received my approval in
manly fashion, and said he would be glad if I
always spoke my mind, " as I always speak

mine," he added. It pleased me that he was
not subservient ; in all conditions of life a
man owes it to himself to maintain, within
proper bounds, a spirit of independence.
While he was pointing out to me this and
that, and urging me to make any suggestions
which occurred to me, his daughter came upto
us and said that a man wished to speak tome.
I asked who the man was, and she
replied, " The landlord of the Three Black
Crows." Curious as to his purpose in making
so early a call, and settling it with myself
that his errand was on business, in
connection, perhaps, with some wine he
wished to dispose of, I told the young
woman to send him to me, and presently
he appeared. There was an expression
of awkwardness, I thought, in his
face as he stood before me, cap in
hand.

"Well, landlord," I said smiling; " you
wish to see me ? "

Yes, sir." And there he stopped.

Go on," I said, wondering somewhat at
his hesitation.

Can I speak to you alone, sir ? "

Certainly. Hartog, I will see you again
presently."

Martin Hartog took the hint, and left us
together.

Now, landlord," I said.

It's about those two men, sir, you saw
in my place last night."

Those two men ? " I said, pondering,
and then a light broke upon me, and I
thought it singular — as indeed it was — that
no recollection, either of the men or the
incidents in association with them should
have occurred to me since my awaking.
"Yes?"

VOL. II. I

(t You are quite safe, sir," said the landlord,
" I am glad to find."

Quite safe, landlord ; but why should
you be so specially glad ? "

Nothing's happened here then, sir ? "

Nothing."

That's what brought me round so early
this morning, for one thing ; I was afraid
something might have happened."

Kindly explain yourself," I said, not at
all impatient, but amused rather. "What
might have happened ? "

"Well, sir, they might have found out,
somehow or other, that you were sleeping in
the house alone last night " — and here he
broke off and asked, " You did sleep here
alone last night ? "

Certainly I did, and a capital night's
rest I had."

Glad to hear that, sir. As I was

saying, if they had found out that you were
sleeping here alone, they might have taken
it into their heads to trouble you."

They might, landlord, but facts are
stubborn things. They did not, evidently."

I understand that now, sir, but I had
my fears, and that's what brought me round
for one thing."

An expression you have used once
before, landlord. ' For one thing.' I infer
there must be another thing in your mind."

There is, sir. You haven't heard
then ? "

As yet I have heard nothing but a
number of very enigmatical observations
from you with respect to those men. Ah,
yes, I remember ; you had your doubts of
them when I visited you on my road
home ? "

I had sir ; I told you I didn't like the

I 2

looks of them, and that I was not easy in
my mind about my own family, and the bit
of money I had in my place to pay my rent
with, and one or two other accounts."

That is so ; you are bringing the whole
affair back to me. I saw the men after I
left the Three Black Crows."

You did, sir ! When ? Where ? "

To tell you would be to interrupt what
you have come here to say. No more
roundabouts, landlord. Say what you have
to say right on."

Well, sir, this is the way of it. I
suspected them from the first, and you will
bear witness of it before the magistrate.
They were strangers in Nerac, but that is
no reason why I should have refused to
sell them a bottle of red wine when they
asked for it. It's my trade to supply
customers, and the wine was the worst I

had, consequently the cheapest. I had no
right to ask their business, and if they
chose to answer me uncivilly, it was their
affair. I wouldn't tell everybody mine on
the asking. They paid for the wine, and
there was an end of it. They called for
another bottle, and when I brought it I did
not draw the cork till I had the money for
it, and as they wouldn't pay the price — not
having it about 'em — the cork wasn't drawn,
and the bottle went back. I had trouble
to get rid of them, but they stumbled out
at last, and I saw no more of them. Now,
sir, you will remember that when we were
speaking of them Doctor Louis's house was
mentioned as a likely house for rogues to
break into and rob."

A moment," I interrupted in agitation.
Doctor Louis is safe ? "

Quite safe, sir."

And his wife and daughter ? "

Quite safe, sir."

"Go on."

The villains couldn't hear what we said,
no more than we could hear what they were
whispering about. But they had laid their
plans, and tried to hatch them — worse luck
for one, if not for both the scoundrels ; but
the other will be caught and made to pay
for it. What they did between the time
they left the Three Black Crows and the
time they made an attempt to break into
Doctor Louis's is at present a mystery.
Don't be alarmed, sir ; I see that my news
has stirred you, but they have only done
harm to themselves. No one else is a bit
the worse for their roguery. Doctor Louis
and his good wife and daughter slept
through the night undisturbed ; nothing
occurred to rouse or alarm them. They

got up as usual, the doctor being the first
he is known as an early riser. As it
happened, it was fortunate that he was outside
his house before his lady, for although
we in Nerac have an idea that she is as
brave as she is good, a woman, after all, is
only a woman, and the sight of blood is
what few of them can stand."

The sight of blood ! " I exclaimed-but
that I was assured that Lauretta was safe
and well, I should not have wasted a
moment on the landlord, eager as I was
to learn what he had come to tell. My
mind, however, was quite at ease with
respect to my dear girl, and the next few
minutes were not so precious that I could
not spare them to hear the landlord's
strange story.

"That," he resumed, "is what the doctor
saw when he went to the back of his house.

Blood on the ground — and what is more,
what would have given the ladies a greater
shock, there before him was the body of a
man — dead."

What man ?" I asked.

That I can't for a certainty say, sir,
because I haven't seen him as yet. I'm
telling the story second-hand, as it was told
to me a while ago by one who had come
straight from the doctor's house. There
was the blood, and there the man ; and
from the description I should say it was
one of the men who were drinking in my
place last night. It is not ascertained at
what time of the night he and his mate
tried to break into the doctor's house,
but the attempt was made. There is the
evidence of it. They commenced to bore
a hole in one of the shutters at the back ;
the hole made, it would have been easy to

enlarged it, and so to draw the fastenings.
However, they did not get so far as that.
They could scarcely have been at their
scoundrelly work a minute or two before it
came to an end."

"How and by whom were they interrupted,
landlord ? That, of course, is
known ? "

"It is not known, sir, and it's just at this
point that the mystery commences. There
they are at their work, and likely to be
successful. A dark night, and not a watchman
in the village. Never a need for
one, sir. Plenty of time before them, and
desperate men they. Only one man in the
house, the good doctor ; all the others
women, easily dealt with. Robbery first —
if interfered with, murder afterwards. They
wouldn't have stuck at it, not they ! But
there it was, sir, as God willed. Nota

minute at work, and something occurs.
The question is, what ? The man lies
dead on the ground, with a gimlet in his
hand, and Doctor Louis, in full sunlight,
stands looking down on the strange sight."

"The man lies dead on the ground," I
said, repeating the landlord's words ; " but
there were two."

No sign of the other, sir ; he's a
vanished body. People are out searching
for him."

He will be found," I said

It's to be hoped," interrupted the landlord.


And then what you call a mystery will
be solved."

It's beyond me, sir," said the landlord,
with a puzzled air.

It is easy enough. These two scoundrels,
would-be murderers, plan a robbery, and proceed

to execute it. They are ill-conditioned
creatures, no better than savages, swayed by
their passions, in which there is no show of
reason. They quarrel, perhaps, about the
share of the spoil which each shall take,
and are not wise enough to put aside
their quarrel till they are in possession of
the booty. They continue their dispute,
and in such savages their brutal passions
once roused, swell and grow to a fitting
climax of violence. So with these. Probably
the disagreement commenced on their
way to the house, and had reached an
angry point when one began to bore a hole
in the shutter. This one it was who was
found dead. The proof was in his hand —
the gimlet with which he was working."

Well conceived, sir," said the landlord,
following with approval my speculative explanation.


This man's face," I continued, " would
be turned toward the shutter, his back to
his comrade. Into this comrade's mind
darts, like a lightning flash, the idea of
committing the robbery alone, and so becoming
the sole possessor of the treasure."

Good, sir, good," said the landlord,
rubbing his hands.

No sooner conceived than executed.
Out comes his knife, or perhaps he has it
ready in his hand, opened."

Why opened, sir ? Would it not be a
fixed blade ? "

No ; such men carry clasp-knives. They
are safest, and never attract notice."

"You miss nothing, sir," said the landlord
admiringly. " What a magistrate you
would have made ! "

He plunges it into his fellow-scoundrel's
back, who falls dead, with the

gimlet in his hand. The murder is
explained."

The landlord nodded excitedly, and continued
to rub his hands ; then suddenly
stood quite still, with an incredulous expression
on his face.

But the robbery is not committed," he
exclaimed ; " the house is not broken into,
and the scoundrel gets nothing for his
pains."

With superior wisdom I laid a patronising
hand upon his shoulder.

The deed done," I said, " the murderer,
gazing upon his dead comrade, is overcome
with fear. He has been rash — he may be
caught red-handed ; the execution of the robbery
will take time. He is not familiar with
the habits of the village, and does not know
it has no guardians of the night. One may
stroll that way and make discovery. Fool

that he was ! He has not only committed
murder, he has robbed himself. Better to
have waited till they had possession of the
treasure ; but this kind of logic always comes
afterwards to ill-regulated minds. Under
the influence of his newly born fears he
recognises that every moment is precious ;
he dare not linger ; he dare not carry out
the scheme. Shuddering, he flies from the
spot, with rage and despair in his heart.
Unhappy wretch ! The curse of Cain is
upon him.

The landlord, who was profuse in the
expressions of his admiration at the light I
had thrown upon the case, so far as it was
known to us, accompanied me to the house
of Doctor Louis. It was natural that I
should find Lauretta and her mother in a
state of agitation, and it was sweet to me
to learn that it was partly caused by their
anxieties for my safety. Doctor Louis was
not at home, but had sent a messenger to
my house to inquire after me, and to give
me some brief account of the occurrences of
the night. We did not meet this messenger

on our way to the doctor's ; he must have
taken a different route from ours.

"You did wrong to leave us last night,"
said Lauretta's mother chidingly.

I shook my head, and answered that it
was but anticipating the date of my removal
by a few days, and that my presence in her
house would not have altered matters.

Everything was right at home," I said.
Home ! What inexpressible sweetness there
was in the word ! " Martin Hartog showed
me to my room, and the servants you engaged
came early this morning, and attended to meas
though they had known my ways and
tastes for years."

You slept well ? " she asked.

A dreamless night," I replied ; " but
had I suspected what was going on here, I
should not have been able to rest."

I am glad you had no suspicion,

Gabriel ; you would have been in danger.
Dreadful as it all is, it is a comfort to
know that the misguided men do not belong
to our village."

Her merciful heart could find no harsher
term than this to apply to the monsters,
and it pained her to hear me say, " One
has met his deserved fate ; it is a pity the
other has escaped." But I could not keep
back the words.

Doctor Louis had left a message for me
to follow him to the office of the village
magistrate, where the affair was being
investigated, but previous to going thither,
I went to the back of the premises to make
an inspection. The village boasted of one
constable, and he was now on duty, in a
state of stupefaction. His orders were to
allow nothing to be disturbed, but his
bewilderment was such that it would have

VOL. II. K

been easy for an interested person to do ashe
pleased in the way of alteration. A
stupid lout, with as much intelligence as a
vegetable. However, I saw at once that
nothing had been disturbed. The shutter in
which a hole had been bored was closed ;
there were blood stains on the stones, and
I was surprised that they were so few ;
the gate by which the villains had effected
an entrance into the garden was open ; I
observed some particles of sawdust on the
window-ledge just below where the hole
had been bored. All that had been removed
was the body of the man who had been
murdered by his comrade.

I put two or three questions to the
constable, and he managed to answer in
monosyllables, yes and no, at random. " A
valuable assistant," I thought, " in unravelling
a mysterious case ! " And then I reproached

myself for the sneer. Happy was a village
like Nerac in which crime was so rare, and
in which an official so stupid was sufficient
for the execution of the law.

The first few stains of blood I noticed
were close to the window, and the stones
thereabout had been disturbed, as though
by the falling of a heavy body.

"Was the man's body," I inquired of
the constable, " lifted from this spot ? "

He looked down vacantly and said,
"Yes."

You are sure ? " I asked.

Sure," he said after a pause, but whether
the word was spoken in reply to my question,
or as a question he put to himself, I could
not determine.

I continued my examination of the grounds.
From the open gate to the window was a
distance of forty-eight yards ; I stepped

K 2

o

exactly a yard, and I counted my steps.
The path from gate to window was shaped
like the letter S, and was for the most part
defined by tall shrubs on either side, of a
height varying from six to nine feet.
Through this path the villains had made
their way to the window ; through this path
the murderer, leaving his comrade dead, had
made his escape. Their operations, for their
own safety's sake, must undoubtedly have
been conducted while the night was still
dark. Reasonable also to conclude that,
being strangers in the village (although by
some means they must have known beforehand
that Doctor Louis's house was worth
the plundering), they could not have been
acquainted with the devious turns in the
path from the gate to the window. Therefore
they must have felt their way through,
touching the shrubs with their hands, most

likely breaking some of the slender stalks,
until they arrived at the open space at the
back of the building.

These reflections impelled me to make a
careful inspection of the shrubs, and I was
very soon startled by a discovery. Here
and there some stalks were broken and torn
away, and here and there were indisputable
evidences that the shrubs had been grasped
by human hands. It was not this that
startled me, for it was in accordance with
my own train of reasoning, but it was that
there were stains of blood on the broken
stalks, especially upon those which had been
roughly torn from the parent tree. I seemed
to see a man, with blood about him, staggering
blindly through the path, snatching at
the shrubs both for support and guidance,
and the loose stalks falling from his hands
as he went. Two men entered the grounds,

only one left — that one, the murderer. The
blood stains indicated a struggle. Between
whom ? Between the victim and the perpetrator
of the deed ? In that case, what
became of the theory of action I had so
elaborately described to the landlord of the
Three Black Crows ? I had imagined an
instantaneous impulse of crime and its
instantaneous execution. I had imagined a
death as sudden as it was violent, a deed
from which the murderer had escaped without
the least injury to himself; and here, on
both sides of me, were the clearest proofs
that the man who had fled must have been
grievously wounded. My ingenuity was at
fault in the endeavour to bring these signs
into harmony with the course of events I had
invented in my interview with the landlord.

I went straight to the office of the magistrate,
a small building of four rooms on the

ground floor, the two in front being used as
the magistrate's private room and court, the
two in the rear as cells, not at all uncomfortable,
for aggressors of the law. It was
but rarely that they were occupied. At the
door of the court I encountered Father
Daniel. He was pale, and much shaken.
During his lifetime no such crime had been
perpetrated in the village, and his only
comfort was that the actors in it were
strangers. But that did not lessen his
horror of the deed, and his large heart overflowed
with pity both for the guilty man
and the victim.

So sudden a death ! " he said, in a voice
broken by tears. " No time for repentance !
Thrust before the Eternal Presence weighed
down by sin ! I have been praying by his
side for mercy, and for mercy upon his
murderer. Poor sinners ! poor sinners ! "

o

I could not sympathise with his sentiments,
and I told him so sternly. He made
no attempt to convert me to his views, but
simply said, " All men should pray that they
may never be tempted."

And so he left me, and turned in the
direction of his little chapel to offer up
prayers for the dead and the living sinners.

Doctor Louis was with the magistrate ;
they had been discussing theories, and had
heard from the landlord of the Three Black
Crows my own ideas of the movements of
the strangers on the previous night.

"In certain respects you may be right
in your speculations," the magistrate said ;
but on one important point you are in error."

I have already discovered," I said, " that
my theory is wrong, and not in accordance
with fact ; but we will speak of that presently.
What is the point you refer to ? "

As to the weapon with which the murder
was done," replied the magistrate, a shrewd
man, whose judicial perceptions fitted him
for a larger sphere of duties than he was
called upon to perform in Nerac. "No knife
was used."

What, then, was the weapon ? " I asked.

"A club of some sort," said the magistrate,
with which the dead man was suddenly
attacked from behind."

Has it been found ? "

"No, but a search is being made for it
and also for the murderer."

On that point we are agreed. There is
no shadow of doubt that the missing man is
guilty."

There can be none," said the magistrate.

And yet," urged Doctor Louis, in a
gentle tone, " to condemn a man unheard is
repugnant to justice."

There are circumstances," said the
magistrate, " which point so surely to
guilt that it would be inimical to justice to
dispute them. By the way," he continued,
addressing me, " did not the landlord of the
Three Black Crows mention something to
the effect that you were at his inn last night
after you left Dr. Louis's house, and that
you and he had a conversation respecting the
strangers, who were at that time in the same
room as yourselves ? "

If he did," I said, " he stated what is
correct. I was there, and saw the strangers,
of whom the landlord entertained suspicions
which have been proved to be well founded."

'then you will be able to identify the
body, already," added the magistrate, " identified
by the landlord. Confirmatory evidence
strengthens a case."

I shall be able to identify it," I said.

We went to the inner room, and I saw
at a glance that it was one of the strangers
who had spent the evening at the Three
Black Crows, and whom I had afterwards
watched and followed.

"The man who has escaped," I observed,
was hump backed."

That tallies with the landlord's statement,"
said the magistrate.

I have something to relate," I said, upon
our return to the court, " of my own movements
last night after I quitted the inn."

I then gave the magistrate and Doctor
Louis a circumstantial account of my movements,
without, however, entering into a
description of my thoughts, only in so far as
they affected my determination to protect
the doctor and his family from evil designs.

They listened with great interest, and
Doctor Louis pressed my hand. He understood

and approved of the solicitude I had
experienced for the safety of his household ;
it was a guarantee that I would watch over
his daughter with love and firmness and
protect her from harm.

But you ran a great risk, Gabriel," he
said affectionately.

I did not consider that," I said.

The magistrate looked on and smiled ; a
father himself, he divined the undivulged
ties by which I and Doctor Louis were
bound.

"At what time," he asked, "do you say
you left the rogues asleep in the woods ? "

It was twenty minutes to eleven," I
replied, " and at eleven o'clock I reached my
house, and was received by Martin Hartog's
daughter. Hartog was absent, on business
his daughter said, and while we were talking,
and I was taking the keys from her hands,

Hartog came home, and accompanied me to
my bedroom''

"Were you at all disturbed in your mind
for the safety of your friends in consequence
of what had passed ? "

Not in the least. The men I left
slumbering in the woods appeared to me to
be but ordinary tramps, without any special
evil intent, and I was satisfied and relieved.
I could not have slept else ; it is seldom that
I have enjoyed a better night."

Cunning rascals ! May not their slumbers
have been feigned ? "

I think not. They were in a profound
sleep ; I made sure of that. No, I could not
have been mistaken."

It is strange," mused Doctor Louis,
how guilt can sleep, and can forget the
present and the future ! "

I then entered into an account of the inspection

I had made of the path from the
gate to the window ; it was the magistrate's
opinion, from the position in which the body
was found, that there had been no struggle
between the two men, and here he and I
were in agreement. What I now narrated
materially weakened his opinion, as it had
materially weakened mine, and he was greatly
perplexed. He was annoyed also that the
signs I had discovered, which confirmed the
notion that a struggle must have taken place,
had escaped the attention of his assistants.
He himself had made but a cursory examination
of the grounds, his presence being
necessary in the court to take the evidence
of witnesses, to receive reports, and to issue
instructions.

u There are so many things to be considered,"
said Doctor Louis, " in a case like
this, resting as it does at present entirely

upon circumstantial evidence, that it is
scarcely possible some should not be lost
sight of. Often those that are omitted are
of greater weight than those which are
argued out laboriously and with infinite
patience. Justice is blind, but the law must
be Argus-eyed. You believe, Gabriel, that
there must have been a struggle in my
garden ? "

Such is now my belief," I replied.

Such signs as you have brought before
our notice," continued the doctor, " are to
you an indication that the man who escaped
must have met with severe treatment ? "

Undoubtedly."

Therefore, that the struggle was a violent
one?"

"Yes."

And prolonged ? "

44 That is the feasible conclusion."

Such a struggle could not have taken
place without considerable disarrangement
about the spot in which it occurred. On an
even pavement you would not look for any
displacement of the stones ; the utmost you
could hope to discover would be the scratches
made by iron heels. But the path from the
gate of my house to the back garden, and
all the walking spaces in the garden itself,
are formed of loose stones and gravel. No
such struggle could take place there without
conspicuous displacement of the materials of
which the ground is composed. If it took
place amongst the flowers, the beds would
bear evidence. I observed no disorder in
the flower beds. Did you ? "

"No."

Then did you observe such a disarrangement
of the stones and gravel as I consider
would be necessary evidence of the struggle

in which you suppose these men to have been
engaged ? "

I was compelled to admit — but I admitted
it grudgingly and reluctantly — that such a
disarrangement had not come within my
observation.

That is partially destructive of your
theory," pursued the doctor. " There is still
something further of moment which I consider
it my duty to say. You are a sound
sleeper ordinarily, and last night you slept
more soundly than usual. I, unfortunately,
am a light sleeper, and it is really a fact
that last night I slept more lightly than
usual. I think, Gabriel, you were to some
extent the cause of this. I am affected by
changes in my domestic arrangements ;
during many pleasant weeks you have resided
in our house, and last night was the first,
for a long time past, that you slept away

vol. 11. L

from us. It had an influence upon me ;
then, apart from your absence, I was thinking
a great deal of you." (Here I observed
the magistrate smile again, a fatherly benignant
smile.) " As a rule I am awakened by
the least noise — the dripping of water, the
fall of an inconsiderable object, the mewing
of a cat, the barking of a dog. Now, last
night I was not disturbed, unusually wakeful
as I was. The wonder is that I was not
aroused by the boring of the hole in the
shutter ; the unfortunate wretch must have
used his gimlet very softly and warily, and under
any circumstances the sound produced by
such a tool is of a light nature. But had any
desperate struggle taken place in the garden
it would have aroused me to a certainty, and
I should have hastened down to ascertain the
cause. Gabriel, no such struggle occurred."
Then," said the magistrate, "how do

you account for the injuries the man who
escaped must have undoubtedly received ? "

The words were barely uttered when we
all started to our feet. There was a great
scuffling outside, and cries and loud voices.
The door was pushed open and half-a-dozen
men rushed into the room, guarding one
whose arms were bound by ropes. He was
in a dreadful condition, and so weak that,
without support, he could not have kept his
feet. I recognised him instantly ; he was
the hump backed man I had seen in the
Three Black Crows.

He lifted his eyes and they fell on the
magistrate ; from him they wandered to
Doctor Louis ; from him they wandered tome.
I was gazing steadfastly and sternly
upon him, and as his eyes met mine his head
drooped to his breast and hung there, while
a strong shuddering ran through him.

l 2

The examination of the prisoner by the
magistrate lasted but a very short time, for
the reason that no replies of any kind could
be obtained to the questions put to him. He
maintained a dogged silence, and although
the magistrate impressed upon him that this
silence was in itself a strong proof of his guilt,
and that if he had anything to say in his
defence it would be to his advantage to say
it at once, not a word could be extracted from
him, and he was taken to his cell, instructions
being given that he should not be unbound
and that a strict watch should be kept over

him. While the unsuccessful examination
was proceeding I observed the man two or
three times raise his eyes furtively to mine,
or rather endeavour to raise them, for he
could not, for the hundredth part of a second,
meet my stern gaze, and each time he made
the attempt it ended in his drooping his head
with a shudder. On other occasions I observed
his eyes wandering round the room
in a wild, disordered way, and these proceedings,
which to my mind were the result of a
low, premeditated cunning, led me to the
conclusion that he wished to convey the
impression that he was not in his right senses,
and therefore not entirely responsible for his
crime. When the monster was taken away
I spoke of this, and the magistrate fell in with
my views, and said that the assumption of
pretended insanity was not an uncommon
trick on the part of criminals. I then asked

him and Doctor Louis whether they would
accompany me in a search for the weapon
with which the dreadful deed was committed
(for none had been found on the prisoner),
and in a further examination of the ground
the man had traversed after he had killed his
comrade in guilt. Doctor Louis expressed
his willingness, but the magistrate said he
had certain duties to attend to which would
occupy him half an hour or so, and that hew
r ould join us later on. So Doctor Louis
and I departed alone to continue the investigation
I had already commenced.

We beofan at the window at the back of
the doctor's house, and I again propounded
to Doctor Louis my theory of the course of
events, to which he listened attentively, but
was no more convinced than he had been
before that a struggle had taken place.

But," he said, " whether a struggle for

life did or did not take place there is not the
slightest doubt of the man's guilt, I have
always viewed circumstantial evidence with
the greatest suspicion, but in this instance
I should have no hesitation, were I the
monster's judge, to mete out to him the
punishment for his crime."

Shortly afterwards we were joined by the
magistrate who had news to communicate
to us.

11 I have had," he said, " another interview
with the prisoner, and have succeeded in
unlocking his tongue. I went to his cell,
unaccompanied, and again questioned him.
To my surprise he asked me if I was alone.
I moved back a pace or two, having the idea
that he had managed to loosen the ropes by
which he was bound, and that he wished to
know if I was alone for the purpose of attacking
me. In a moment, however, the fear

was dispelled, for I saw that his arms were
tightly and closely bound to his side, and
that it was out of his power to injure me.
He repeated his question, and I answered
that I was quite alone, and that his question
was a foolish one, for he had the evidence of
his senses to convince him. He shook his
head at this, and said in a strange voice that
the evidence of his senses was sufficient in
the case of men and women, but not in the
case of spirits and demons. I smiled inwardly
at this — for it does not do for a magistrate
to allow a prisoner from whom he wishes to
extract evidence to detect any signs of levity
in his judge — and I thought of the view you
had presented to me that the man wished to
convey an impression that he was a madman,
in order to escape to some extent the consequences
of the crime he had committed.
Put spirits and demons,' I said to him, ' out

of the question. If you have anything to
say or confess, speak at once ; and if you
wish to convince yourself that there are no
witnesses either in this cell — though that is
plainly evident — or outside, here is the proof.'
I threw open the door, and showed him that
no one was listening to our speech. ' I
cannot put spirits or demons out of the
question,' he said, ' because I am haunted by
one, who has brought me to this.' He looked
down at his ropes and imprisoned limbs.
Are you guilty or not guilty ? ' I asked. ' I
am not guilty,' he replied ; ' I did not kill
him.' * But he is murdered,' I said. ' Yes,'
he replied, ' he is murdered.' * If you did
not kill him,' I continued, ' who did ? ' What
do you think he answered ? ' A demon killed
him,' he said, ' and would have killed me, if I
had not fled and played him a trick.' I gazed
at him in thought, wondering whether he had

the slightest hope that he was imposing upon
me by his lame attempt at being out of his
senses. ' A demon ? ' I said questioningly.
'Yes, a demon,' he replied. 'But,' I said,
and I admit that my tone was somewhat
bantering, ' demons are more powerful than
mortals.' 'That is where it is,' he said;
that is why I am here.' ' You are a clumsy
scoundrel,' I said, ' and I will prove it to you ;
then you may be induced to speak the truth
in which,' I added, ' lies your only hope of
a mitigation of punishment. Not that I hold
out to you any such hope ; but if you can
establish, when you are ready to confess,
that what you did was done in self-defence,
it will be a point in your favour.' ' I cannot
confess,' he said, ' to a crime which I did not
commit. I am a clumsy scoundrel perhaps,
but not in the way you mean. Prove it tome
if you can.' 'You say,' I began, 'that a

demon killed your comrade.' * He did
persisted the prisoner. ' And,' I continued,
that he would have killed you if you had
not fled from him.' * He would,' said the
prisoner. ' But,' I said, ' demons are more
powerful than men. Of what avail would
have been your flight ? Men can only walk
or run ; demons can fly. The demon you
have invented could have easily overtaken
you and finished you as you say he finished
the man you murdered.' He was a little
staggered at this, and I saw him pondering
over it. 'It isn't for me,' he said presently,
to pretend to know why he did not suspect
the trick I played him ; he could have killed
me if he wanted. I have spoken the truth.
I heard him pursuing me.' * There again,'
I said, wondering that there should be in
the world men with such a low order of
intelligence, * you heard him pursuing you.

Demons glide noiselessly along. It is impossible
you could have heard this one. You
will have to invent another story.' ' I have
invented none,' he persisted doggedly, and
repeated, ' I have spoken the truth.' As I
could get nothing further out of him thana
determined adherence to his ridiculous
defence, I left him."

Do you think," asked Doctor Louis,
that he has any, even the remotest belief in
the story ? Men sometimes delude themselves."

I cannot believe it," replied the magistrate,
"and yet I confess to being slightly
puzzled. There was an air of sincerity about
him which might be to his advantage had he
to deal with judges who were ignorant of the
cunning of criminals."

Which means," said Doctor Louis, " that
it is really not impossible that the man's mind
is diseased."

No," said the magistrate, in a positive
tone, " I cannot for a moment admit it. A
tale in which a spirit or a demon is the principal
actor ! In this age it is too absurd ! "

At that moment I made a discovery ; I
drew from the midst of a bush a stick, one
end of which was stained with blood. From
its position it seemed as if it had been thrown
hastily away ; there had certainly been no
attempt at concealment.

Here is the weapon," I cried, " with which
the deed was done ! "

The magistrate took it immediately from
my hand, and examined it.

Here," I said, pointing downwards, "is
the direct line of flight taken by the prisoner,
and he must have flung the stick away in
terror as he ran."

It is an improvised weapon," said the
magistrate, " cut but lately from a tree, and

fashioned so as to fit the hand and be used
with effect."

I, in my turn, then examined the weapon,
and was struck by its resemblance to the
branch I had myself cut the previous night
during the watch I kept upon the ruffians.
I spoke of the resemblance, and said that it
looked to me as if it were the self-same stick
I had shaped with my knife.

Do you remember," asked the magistrate,
"what you did with it after your suspicions
were allayed ? "

No," I replied, " I have not the slightest
remembrance what I did with it. I could
not have carried it home with me, or I should
have seen it this morning before I left my
house. I have no doubt that, after my mind
was at ease as to the intentions of the
ruffians, I flung it aside into the woods,
having no further use for it. When the

men set out to perpetrate the robbery they
must have stumbled upon the branch, and,
appreciating the pains I had bestowed upon
it, took it with them. There appears to be
no other solution to their possession of it."

It is the only solution," said the magistrate.

So that," I said with a sudden thrill of
horror, " I am indirectly responsible for the
direction of the tragedy, and should have
been responsible had they used the weapon
against those I love ! It is terrible to
think of."

Doctor Louis pressed my hand. " We
have all happily been spared, Gabriel," he
said. " It is only the guilty who have
suffered."

We continued our search for some time,
without meeting with any further evidence,
and I spent the evening with Doctor Louis's
family, and was deeply grateful that Providence

had frustrated the villainous schemes
of the wretches who had conspired against
them. On this evening Lauretta and I
seemed to be drawn closer to each other,
and once, when I held her hand in mine fora
moment or two (it was done unconsciously),
and her father's eyes were upon us, I was
satisfied that he did not deem it a breach of
the obligation into which we had entered
with respect to my love for his daughter.
Indeed it was not possible that all manifestations
of a love so profound and absorbing
as mine should be successfully kept out of
sight ; it would have been contrary to nature.

I slept that night in Doctor Louis's house,
and the next morning Lauretta and Lauretta's
mother said that they had experienced a
feeling of security because of my presence.

At noon I was on my way to the magistrate's
office.

My purpose was to obtain, by the magistrate's
permission, an interview with the
prisoner. His account of the man's sincere
or pretended belief in spirits and demons
had deeply interested me, and I wished to
have some conversation with him respecting
this particular adventure which had ended
in murder. I obtained without difficulty the
permission I sought. I asked if the prisoner
had made any further admissions or confession,
and the magistrate answered no, and that
the man persisted in a sullen adherence to
the tale he had invented in his own defence.

VOL. II. M

I saw him this morning," the magistrate
said, " and interrogated him with severity,
to no effect. He continues to declare himself
to be innocent, and reiterates his fable
of the demon."

Have you asked him," I inquired, " to
give you an account of all that transpired
within his knowledge from the moment he
entered Nerac until the moment he was
arrested ? "

No," said the magistrate, " it did not
occur to me to demand of him so close a
description of his movements ; and I doubt
whether I should have been able to drag it
from him. The truth he will not tell, and
his invention is not strong enough to go
into minute details. He is conscious of
this, conscious that I should trip him up
again and again on minor points which would
be fatal to him, and his cunning nature

warns him not to thrust his head into the
trap. He belongs to the lowest order of
criminals."

My idea was to obtain from the prisoner
just such a circumstantial account of his
movements as I thought it likely the magistrate
would have extracted from him ; and I
felt that I had the power to succeed where
the magistrate had failed. This power I
determined to use.

I was taken into the man's cell, and left
there without a word. He was still bound ;
his brute face was even more brute and
haggard than before, his hair was matted,
his eyes had a look in them of mingled
terror and ferocity. He spoke no word, but
he raised his head and lowered it again
when the door of the cell was closed
behind me.

"What is your name?" I asked. But I

m 2

had to repeat the question twice before he
answered me.

Pierre," he said.

Why did you not reply to me at once ? "
But to this question, although I repeated it
also twice, he made no response.

It is useless," I said sternly, " to attempt
evasion with me, or to think that I will be
content with silence. I have come here to
obtain a confession from you — a true confession,
Pierre — and I will force it from you,
if you do not give it willingly. Do you
understand me ? I will force it from you."

I understand you," he said, keeping his
face averted from me, " but I will not speak."

Why ? " I demanded.

Because you know all ; because you are
only playing with me ; because you have a
design against me."

His words astonished me, and made me

more determined to carry out my intention.
He had made it clear to me that there was
something hidden in his mind, and I was
resolved to get at it.

What design can I have against you," I
said, " of which you need be afraid ? You
are in sufficient peril already, and there is no
hope for you. Your life is forfeit. What
worse danger can befall you ? Soon you will
be as dead as the man you murdered."

I did not murder him," was the strange
reply, " and you know it."

Fool ! " I exclaimed. " You are playing
the same trick upon me that you played
upon your judge. It was unsuccessful with
him ; it will be as unsuccessful with me.
Answer me. What further danger can
threaten you than the danger, the certain,
positive danger, in which you now stand ?
You are doomed, Pierre."

My body is, perhaps," he muttered, " but
not my soul'

•' Oh," I said, in a tone of contempt, "you
believe in a soul."

Yes," he replied, *' do not you ? "

I ? Yes. With reason, with intelligence.
Not out of my fears, but out of my
hopes."

I have no hopes and no fears," he said.
I have done wrong, but not the wrong with
which I am charged."

u Look at me, Pierre."

His response to this was to hide his head
closer on his breast, to make an even stronger
endeavour to avoid my glance.

"When I next command you," I said,
you will obey. About your soul ? Believing
that you possess one, what worse peril can
threaten it than the pass to which you have
brought it by your crime."

And still he doggedly repeated, " I have
committed no crime."

You fear me ? " I asked.

"Yes."

Why ? "

Because you are here to tempt me, to
ensnare me. I will not look at you."

I strode to his side, and with my strong
hand on his shoulder, forced him to raise his
head, forced him to look me straight in the
face. His eyes wavered for a few moments,
shifted as though they would escape my
compelling power, and finally became fixed
on mine. He had no power to resist me.
The will in me was strong, and produced
its effects on the weaker mind. Gradually
what brilliancy there was in his eyes became
dimmed, and drew but a reflected, shadowy
light from mine. Thus we remained face to
face for four or five minutes, and then I spoke.

Relate to me," I said, " all that you
know from the time you and the man who is
dead conceived the idea of coming to Teacup
to the present moment. Conceal nothing.
The truth, the bare, naked truth ! "

We were poor, both of us," Pierre commenced,
" and had been poor all our lives.
That would not have mattered had we been
able to obtain meat and wine. But we
could not. We were neither of us honest,
and had been in prison more than once for
theft. We were never innocent when we
were convicted, although we swore we were.
I got tired of it ; starvation is a poor game.
I would have been contented with a little,
and so would he, but we could not make
sure of that little. Nothing else was left tous
but to take what we wanted. The wild
beasts do ; why should not we ? But we
were too well known in our village, some

sixty miles from Nerac, so, talking it over,
we said we would come here and try our
luck. We had heard of Doctor Louis, and
that he was a rich man. He can spare what
we want, we said ; we will go and take.
We had no idea of blood ; we only wanted
money, to buy meat and wine with. So we
started, with nothing in our pockets. On
the first day we had a slice of luck. We
met a man and waylaid him, and took from
him all the money he had in his pockets.
It was not much, but enough to carry us to
Nerac. No more ; but we were satisfied.
We did not hurt the man ; a knock on the
head did not take his senses from him, but
brought him to them ; so, being convinced,
he gave us what he had, and we departed
on our way. We were not fast walkers, and,
besides, we did not know the straightest
road to Nerac, so we were four days on the

journey. When we entered the inn of the
Three Black Crows we had just enough
money left to pay for a bottle of red wine.
We called for it, and sat drinking. While
we were there a spirit entered in the shape
of a man. This spirit, whom I did not
then know to be a demon, sat talking with
the landlord of the Three Black Crows.
He looked towards the place where we were
sitting, and I wondered whether he and the
landlord were talking of us ; I could not
tell, because what they said did not reach
my ears. He went away, and we went
away, too, some time afterwards. We
wanted another bottle of red wine, but the
landlord would not give it to us without
our paying for it, and we had no money ;
our pockets were bare. So out we went
into the night. It was very dark. We had
settled our plan. Before we entered the

Three Black Crows we had found out
Doctor Louis's house, and knew exactly
how it was situated ; there would be no
difficulty in finding it later on, despite the
darkness. We had decided not to make
the attempt until at least two hours past
midnight, but, for all that, when we left the
inn we walked in the direction of the
doctor's house. I do not know if we should
have continued our way, because, although
I saw nothing and heard nothing, I had
a fancy that we were being followed ; I
couldn't say by what, but the idea was in
my mind. So, talking quietly together, he
and I determined to turn back to some
woods on the outskirts of Nerac which we
had passed through before we reached the
village, and there to sleep an hour or two
till the time arrived to put our plan into
execution. Back we turned, and as we went

there came a sign to me. I don't know
how ; it was through the senses, for I don't
remember hearing anything that I could not
put down to the wind. My mate heard it
too, and we stopped in fear. ' What was
that ? ' my mate said. ' Are we being followed
? ' I said nothing. We stood quieta
long while, and heard nothing. Then my
mate said, ' It was the wind ; ' and we went
on till we came to the woods, which we
entered. Down upon the ground we threw
ourselves, and in a minute my mate was
asleep. Not so I ; but I pretended to be.
Then came a Shadow that bent over us. I
did not move ; I even breathed regularly to
put it off the scent. Presently it departed,
and I opened my eyes ; nothing was near
us. Then, being tired with the long day's
walk, and knowing that there was work
before us which would be better done after

a little rest, I fell asleep myself. We both
slept, I can't say how long, but from the
appearance of the night I judged till about
the time we had resolved to do our work.
I woke first, and awoke my mate, and off
we set to the doctor's house. We reached
it in less than an hour, and nothing disturbed
us on the way. That made me
think that I had been deceived, and that
my senses had been playing tricks with me.
I told my mate of my fears, and he laughed
at me, and I laughed, too, glad to be relieved.
We walked round the doctor's
house, to decide where we should commence.
The front of it faces the road,
and we thought that too dangerous, so we
made our way to the back, and, talking in
whispers, settled to bore a hole through the
shutters there. We were very quiet ; no
fear of our being heard. The hole being

bored, it was easy to cut away wood enough
to enable us to open the window and make
our way into the house. We did not intend
violence, that is, not more than was necessary
for our safety. We had talked it
over, and had decided that no blood was
to be shed. Robbers we were, but not
murderers. Our plan was to gag and tie
up any one who interfered with us. My
mate and I had had no quarrel ; we were
faithful partners ; and I had no other
thought than to remain true to him as he
had no other thought than to remain true
to me. Share and share alike — that was
what we both intended. So he worked
away at the shutter, while I looked on.
Suddenly, crack ! A blow came, from the
air it seemed, and down fell my mate,
struck dead ! He did not move ; he did
not speak ; he died, unshriven. I looked

down, dazed) when I heard a swishing
sound in the air behind me, as though a
great club was making a circle and about
to fall upon my head. It Was all in a
minute, and I turned and saw the demon.
Dark as it was, I saw him. I slanted my
body aside, and the club, instead of falling
upon my head, fell upon my shoulder. I
ran for my life, and down came another
blow, on my head this time, but it did not
kill me. I raced like a madman, tearing -
at the bushes, and the demon after me. I
was struck again and again, but not killed.
Wounded and bleeding, I continued my
flight, till flat I fell like a log. Not
because all my strength was gone ; no,
there was still a little left ; but I showed
myself more cunning than the demon, for
down I went as if I was dead, and he left me,
thinking me so. Then, when he was gone, I

opened my eyes, and managed to drag myself
away to the place where I was found yesterday
more dead than alive. I did not kill my mate;
I never raised my hand against him. What I
have said is the truth, as I hope for mercy in
the next world, if I don't get it in this ! "

This was the incredible story related tome
by the villain who had threatened the
life of the woman I loved ; for he did not
deceive me ; murder was in his heart, and
his low cunning only served to show him ina
blacker light. However, I did not leave
him immediately. I released him from the
spell I had cast upon him, and he stood
before me, shaking and trembling, with a
look in his eyes as though he had just
been awakened from sleep.

What have I said ? " he muttered.

You have confessed all," I said, meeting
cunning with cunning.

All ! " he muttered. " What do you
mean ? "

Then I told him that he had made a full
confession of his crime, and in the telling
expounded my own theory, as if it had
come from his lips, of the thoughts which
led to it, and of its final committal — my
hope being that he would even now
admit that he was the murderer. But he
vehemently defended himself.

If I have said as much," he said, " it is
you who have driven me to it, and it is
you who have come here to set a snare
for my destruction. But it is not possible,
because what you have told me is false from
beginning to end."

So I left him, amazed at his dogged,
determined obstinacy, which I knew would
not avail him. He was doomed, and justly
doomed.

VOL. II. N

I have been reading over the record I
have written of my life, which has been
made with care and a strict adherence to
the truth. I am at the present hour sitting
alone in the house I have taken and furnished,
and to which I hope shortly to
bring my beloved Lauretta as my wife.
The writing of this record from time to
time has grown into a kind of habit with
me, and there are occasions in which I
have been greatly interested in it myself.
Never until this night have I read the
record from beginning to end, and I have

come to a resolution to discontinue it. My
reason is a sufficient one, and as it concerns
no man else, no man can dispute my right
to make it.

My resolution is, after tomorrow, to allow
my new life, soon to commence, to flow on
uninterruptedly without burdening myself
with the labour of putting into writing the
happy experiences awaiting me. I shall be
no longer alone ; Lauretta will be by my
side ; I should begrudge the hours which
deprived me of her society.

Another thing. I must have no secrets
from her ; and much that here is recorded
should properly be read by no eye than
mine. Lauretta's nature is so gentle, her
soul so pure, that it would distress her to
read these pages. This shall not be. I
recognise a certain morbid vein in myself
which the continuing of this record might

N 2

magnify into a disease. It presents itself
to me in the light of guarding myself
against myself, by adopting wise measures
to foster cheerfulness. That my nature is
more melancholy than cheerful is doubtless
to be ascribed to the circumstances of my
child-life, which was entirely devoid of light
and gaiety. This must not be in the
future ; I have a battle to fight, and I
shall conquer because Lauretta's happiness
is on the issue.

It will, however, be as well to make the
record complete in a certain sense, and I
shall therefore take note of certain things
which have occurred since my conversation
with Pierre in his cell. That done, I shall
put these papers aside in a secret place,
and shall endeavour to forget them. My
first thought was to destroy the record, but
I was influenced in the contrary direction

by the fact that my first meeting with
Lauretta and the growth of my love for
her are described in it. First impressions
jotted down at the time of their occurrence
have a freshness about them which can
never be imparted by the aid of memory,
and it may afford me pleasure in the future
to live over again, through these pages, the
sweet days of my early intimacy with my
beloved girl. Then there is the strange
story ot Kristel and Slain, which undoubtedly
is worth preserving.

First, to get rid of the miserable affair
of the attempt to rob Doctor Louis's house.
Pierre was tried and convicted, and has paid
the penalty of his crime. His belief in the
possession of a soul could not, after all,
have had in it the spirit of sincerity ; it
must have been vaunted merely in pursuance
of his cunning endeavours to escape

his just punishment ; otherwise he would
have confessed before he died. Father
Daniel, the good priest, did all he could
to bring the man to repentance, but to the
last he insisted that he was innocent. It
was strange to me to hear Father Daniel
express himself sympathetically towards the
criminal.

"He laboured, up to the supreme
moment," said the good priest, in a compassionate
tone, " under the singular
hallucination that he was going before his
Maker guiltless of the shedding of blood.
So fervent and apparently sincere were his
protestations that I could not help being
shaken in my belief that he was guilty."

"Then you believe in demons?" I
remarked, amazed at this weakness.

Not in the sense," said Father Daniel,
' that the unhappy man would have had me

believe. Reason rejects his story as something
altogether too incredulous ; and yet I
pity him."

I did not prolong the discussion with the
good priest ; it would have been useless, and,
to Father Daniel, painful. We looked at
the matter from widely different standpoints.
Intolerance warps the judgment ; no less
does such a life as Father Daniel has lived,
for ever seeking to find excuses for error
and crime, for ever seeking to palliate a
man's misdeeds. Sweetness of disposition,
carried to extremes, may degenerate into
positive mental feebleness ; to my mind this is
the case with Father Daniel. He is not the
kind who, in serious matters, can be depended
upon for a just estimate of human affairs.

Eric and Emilius, after a longer delay
than Doctor Louis anticipated, have taken
up their residence in Nerac. They paid two

short visits to the village, and I was in hopes
each time upon their departure that they
had relinquished their intention of living in
Nerac. I did not give expression to my
wish, for I knew it was not shared by any
member of Doctor Louis's family.

It is useless to disguise that I dislike them,
and that there exists between us a certain
antipathy. To be just, this appears to be
more on my side than on theirs, and it is
not in my disfavour that the feelings I
entertain are nearer the surface. Doctor
Louis and the ladies entertain a high opinion
of them ; I do not ; and I have already some
reason for looking upon them with a suspicious
eye. This reason I will presently explain.

When we were first introduced it was
natural that I should regard them with
interest, an interest which sprang from the
story of their father's fateful life. They

bear a wonderful resemblance to each other
they are both fair, with tawny beards, which
it appears to me they take a pride in shaping
and trimming alike ; their eyes are blue, and
they are of exactly the same height. Undoubtedly
handsome men, having in that
respect the advantage of me, who, in point
of attractive looks, cannot compare with
them. They seem to be devotedly attached
to each other, but this may or may not be.
So were Slain and Kristel until a woman
stepped between them and changed their
love to hate. Before I came into personal
relationship with Eric and Emilius I made
up my mind to distrust appearances and to
seek for evidence upon which to form an
independent judgment. Some such evidence
has already come to me, and I shall secretly
follow it up.

They are on terms of the most affectionate

intimacy with Doctor Louis and his family,
and both Lauretta and Lauretta's mother
take pleasure in their society ; Doctor Louis,
also, in a lesser degree. Women are always
more effusive than men.

They are not aware of the relations which
bind me to the village. That they may have
some suspicion of my feelings for Lauretta is
more than probable, for I have seen them
look from her to me and then at each other,
and I have interpreted these looks. It is as
if they said, " Why is this stranger here ?
He is usurping our place." I have begged
Doctor Louis to allow me to speak openly
to Lauretta, and he has consented to shorten
the period of silence to which I was pledged.
I have his permission to declare my love to
his daughter tomorrow. There are no
doubts in my mind that she will accept me ;
but there are doubts that if I left it too late

there would be danger that her love for me
would be weakened. Yes, although it is
torture to me to admit it I cannot rid myself
of this impression. How would this be
effected and by whom ? By these brothers,
Eric and Emilius, and by means of misrepresentations
to my injury. I have no
positive data to go upon, but I am convinced
that they have an aversion towards me, and
that they are in their hearts jealous of me.
The doctor is blind to their true character ;
he believes them to be generous and noble-minded,
men of rectitude and high principle.
They are not so. I have the evidence of my
senses in proof of it.

So much have I been disturbed and unhinged
by my feelings towards these brothers
—feelings which I have but imperfectly
expressed — that latterly I have frequently
been unable to sleep. Impossible to lie abed

and toss about for hours in an agony of
unrest ; therefore I chose the lesser evil, and
resumed the nocturnal wanderings which
was my habit in Rosemullion before the
death of my parents. These nightly rambles
have been taken in secret, as in the days of
my boyhood, and I mused and spoke aloud
as was my custom during that period of
my life. But I had new objects to occupy
me now — the home in which I hoped to
enjoy a heaven of happiness, with Lauretta
its guiding star, and all the bright anticipations
of the future. I strove to confine
myself to these dreams, which filled my soul
with joy, but there came to me always the
figures of Eric and Emilius, dark shadows to
threaten my promised happiness.

Last week it was, on a night in which I
felt that sleep would not be mine if I sought
my couch ; therefore, earlier than usual — it

was barely eleven o'clock — I left the house,
and went into the woods. Martin Arrogant
his fair daughter were in the habit of
retiring early and rising with the sun, and I
stole quietly away unobserved. At twelve
o'clock I turned homewards, and when I was
about a hundred yards from my house I was
surprised to hear a low murmur of voices
within a short distance of me. Since the
night on which I visited the Three Black
Crows and saw the two strangers there who
had come to Nerac with evil intent, I had
become very watchful, and now these voices
speaking at such an untimely hour thoroughly
aroused me. I stepped quietly in their
direction, so quietly that I knew I could
not be heard, and presently I saw standing
at a distance of ten or twelve yards the
figures of a man and a woman. The man was
Emilius, the woman Martin Hartog's daughter.

Although I had heard their voices before
I reached the spot upon which I stood when
I recognised their forms, I could not even
now determine what they said, they spoke
in such low tones. So I stood still and
watched them and kept myself from their
sight. I may say honestly that I should not
have been guilty of the. meanness had it not
been that I entertain an unconquerable
aversion against Eric and Emilius. I was
sorry to see Martin Hartog's daughter holding
a secret interview with a man at midnight,
for the girl had inspired me with a respect of
which I now knew she was unworthy ; but I
cannot aver that I was sorry to see Emilius
in such a position, for it was an index to
his character and a justification of the unfavourable
opinion I had formed of him and
Eric. Alike as they were in physical
presentment, I had no doubt that their

moral natures bore the same kind of resemblance.
Libertines both of them, ready for
any low intrigue, and holding in light regarda
woman's good name and fame. Truly the
picture before me showed clearly the stuff of
which these brothers are made. If they hold
one woman's good name so lightly, they hold
all women so. Fit associates, indeed, for a
family so pure and stainless as Doctor
Louis's !

This was no chance meeting — how was
that possible at such an hour? It was
premeditated. Theirs was no new acquaintanceship
; it must have lasted already sometime.
The very secrecy of the interview
was in itself a condemnation.

Should I make Doctor Louis acquainted
with the true character of the brothers who
held so high a place in his esteem ? This
was the question that occurred to me as I

gazed upon Emilius and Martin Hartog's
daughter, and I soon answered it in the
negative. Doctor Louis was a man of settled
convictions, hard to convince, hard to turn.
His first impulse, upon which he would act,
would be to go straight to Emilius, and
enlighten him upon the discovery I had
made. And then ? Why, then, Emilius
would invent some tale which it would not
be hard to believe, and make light of a
matter I deemed so serious. I should be
placed in the position of an eavesdropper, asa
man setting sly watches upon others to
whom, from causeless grounds, I had taken a
dislike. I should be at a disadvantage.
Whatever the result one thing was certain
that I was a person capable not only of
unreasonable antipathies but of small meanness
to which a gentleman would not
descend. The love which Doctor Louis bore

to Slain, and which he had transferred to
Slain's children, was not to be easily turned ;
and at the best I should be introducing
doubts into his mind which would reflect
upon myself because of the part of spy I had
played. No ; I decided for the present at
least, to keep the knowledge to myself.

As to Martin Hartog, though I could not
help feeling pity for him, it was for him, not
me, to look after his daughter. From a
general point of view these affairs were
common enough.

I seemed to see now in a clearer light the
kind of man Slain was — one who would
set himself deliberately to deceive where
most he was trusted. Honour, fair dealing,
brotherly love, were as nought in his eyes
where a woman was concerned, and he had
transmitted these qualities to Eric and
Emilius. My sympathy for Kristel was

VOL. II. O

deepened by what I was gazing on ; more
than ever was I convinced of the justice of
the revenge he took upon the brother who
had betrayed him.

These were the thoughts which passed
through my mind while Emilius and Martin
Hartog's daughter stood conversing. Presently
they strolled towards me, and I shrank
back in fear of being discovered. This
involuntary action on my part, being an
accentuation of the meanness of which I
was guilty, confirmed me in the resolution
at which I had arrived to say nothing of my
discovery to Doctor Louis.

They passed me in silence, walking in the
direction of my house. I did not follow
them, and did not return home for another
hour.

How shall I describe the occurrences of
this day, the most memorable and eventful
in my life ? A new life is opening for me.
I am overwhelmed at the happiness which is
within my grasp. As I walked home from
Doctor Louis's house through the darkness
a spirit walked by my side, illumining the
gloom and filling my heart with gladness.

At one o'clock I presented myself at
Doctor Louis's house. He met me at the
door, expecting me, and asked me to come
with him to a little room he uses as a study.
I followed him in silence. His face was

o 2

grave, and but for its kindly expression I
should have feared it was his intention to
revoke the permission he had given me to
speak to his daughter on this day of the
deep, the inextinguishable love I bear for
her. He motioned me to a chair, and I
seated myself and waited for him to speak.

This hour," he said, " is to me most
solemn."

And to me, sir," I responded.

It should be," he said, " to you perhaps,
more than to me ; but we are inclined ever
to take the selfish view. I have been awake
very nearly the whole of the night, and so
has my wife. Our conversation — well, you
can guess the object of it."

Lauretta, sir."

Yes, Lauretta, our only child, whom you
are about to take from us." I trembled
with joy, his words betokening a certainty

that Lauretta loved me, an assurance I had
yet to receive from her own sweet lips.
*' My wife and I," he continued, "have been
living over again the life of our dear one, and
the perfect happiness we have drawn from
her. I am not ashamed to say that we
have committed some weaknesses during
these last few hours, weaknesses springing
from our affection for our Home Rose. In
the future some such experience may be
yours, and then you will know — which now
is hidden from you — what parents feel who
are asked to give their one ewe lamb into
the care of a stranger." I started. " There
is no reason for alarm, Gabriel," he said,
because I have used a true word. Until
a few short months ago you were really a

stranger to us."

That has not been against me, sir," I
said, " and is not, I trust."

There is no such thought in my mind,
Gabriel. There is nothing against you
except — except," he repeated, with a little
pitiful smile, " that you are about to take
from us our most precious possession. Until
to-day our dear child was wholly and solely
ours ; and not only herself, but her past
was ours, her past, which has been to us a
garden of joy. Henceforth her heart will
be divided, and you will have the larger
share. That is a great deal to think of,
and we have thought of it, my wife and I,
and talked of it nearly all the night.
Certain treasures," he said, and again the
pitiful smile came on his lips, " which in
the eyes of other men and women are
valueless, still are ours." He opened a
drawer, and gazed with loving eyes upon
its contents. " Such as a little pair of shoes,
a flower or two, a lock of her bright hair."

May I see it, sir ? " I asked, profoundly
touched by the loving accents of his voice.

Surely," he replied, and he passed over
to me a lock of golden hair, which I pressed
to my lips. " The little head was once
covered with these golden curls, and to usher
parents, they were as holy as they would
have been on the head of an angel. She
was all that to us, Gabriel. It is within
the scope of human love to lift one's thoughts
to heaven and God ; it is within its scope
to make one truly fit for the life to come.
All things are not of the world worldly ; it
is a grievous error to think so, and only
sceptics can so believe. In the kiss of baby
lips, in the touch of little hands, in the myriad
sweet ways of childhood, lie the breath of a
pure religion which God receives because of
its power to sanctify the lowest as well as the
highest of human lives. It is good to think

of that, and to feel that, in the holiest forms
of humanity, the poor stand as high as the
rich." He paused a while before he continued.
" Gabriel, it is an idle phrase fora
father holding the position towards you
which I do at the present moment, to say
he has no fears for the happiness of his
only child."

(< If you have any, sir," I said, " question
me, and let me endeavour to set your mind
at ease. In one respect I can do so with
solemn earnestness. If it be my happy lotto
win your daughter, her welfare, her
honour, her peace of mind, shall be the care
of my life. These assured, happiness should
follow. I love Lauretta with a pure heart ;
no other woman has ever possessed my love ;
to no other woman have I been drawn ; nor
is it possible that I could be. She is to me
part of my spiritual life. I am not as other

men, in the ordinary acceptation. In my
childhood's life there was but little joy, and
the common pleasures of childhood were
not mine. From almost my earliest remembrances
there was but little light in my
parents' house, and in looking back upon it
I can scarcely call it a home. The fault was
not mine, as you will admit. May I claim
some small merit — not of my own purposed
earning, but because it was in me, for which
I may have reason to be grateful — from the
fact that the circumstances of my early life
did not corrupt me, did not drive me to a
searching for low pleasures, and did not
debase me ? It seemed to me, sir, that I
was ever seeking for something in the heights
and not in the depths. Books and study
were my comforters, and I derived real
pleasures from them. They served to satisfy
a want, and, although I contracted a melancholy

mood, I was not unhappy. I know-that
this mood is in me, but when I think of
Lauretta it is dispelled. I seem to hear the
singing of birds, to see flowers around me, to
bathe in sunshine. Perhaps it springs from
the fervour of my love for her ; but a kind
of belief is mine that I have been drawn
hither to her, that my way of life was
measured to her heart. What more can I
say, sir ? "

You have said much," said Doctor
Louis, " to comfort and assure me, and
have, without being asked, answered questions
which were in my mind. Do you remember
a conversation you had with my wife in the
first days of your convalescence, commenced
I think by you in saying that the happiest
dream of your life was drawing to a close ? "

I was thinking of Lauretta. Even in
those early days I felt that I loved her."

I understand that now," said Doctor
Louis. " My wife replied that life must not
be dreamt away, that it has duties."

I remember the conversation well, sir."
My wife said that one's ease and
pleasures are rewards, only enjoyable when
they have been worthily earned ; and when
you asked, ' Earned in what way ? ' she
answered, ' In accomplishing one's work in
the world'"

Yes, sir, her words come back to me."
There is something more," said Doctor
Louis, with sad sweetness, " which I should
not recall did I not hold duty before me as
my chief beacon. Inclination and selfish
desire must often be sacrificed for it. You
will understand how sadly significant this is
to me when I recall what followed. Though,
to be sure," he added, in a slightly gayer
tone, " we could visit you and our daughter.

wherever your abode happened to be.
Continuing your conversation with my wife,
you said, ' How to discover what one's work
really is, and where it should be properly
performed ?' My wife answered, ' In one's
native land.' "

u Those were the words we spoke to one
another, sir."

"It was my wife who recalled them to me,
and I wish you — in the event of your hopes
being realised — to bear them in mind. It
would be painful to me to see you lead an
idle life, and it would be injurious to you.
This quiet village opens out no opportunities
to you ; it is too narrow, too confined. I
have found my place here as an active
worker, but I doubt if you would do so."

"There is time to think of it, sir."

Plenty of time. And now, if you like,
we will join my wife and daughter."

Have you said anything to Lauretta, sir ? "

No. I thought it best, and so did her
mother, that her heart should be left to speak
for itself."

Lauretta's mother received me with
tender, wistful solicitude, and I observed
nothing in Lauretta to denote that she had
been prepared for the declaration I had
come to make. After lunch I proposed to
Lauretta to go out into the garden, and
she turned to her mother and asked if she
would accompany us.

No, my child," said the mother, " I have
things in the house to attend to."

So Lauretta and I went out alone.

It was a lovely day, and Lauretta had
thrown a light lace scarf over her head.
She was in gay spirits, not boisterous, for she
is ever gentle, and she endeavoured to
entertain me with innocent prattle, to which

I found it difficult to respond. In a little
while this forced itself upon her observation,
and she asked me if I was not well.

tc I am quite well, Lauretta," I replied.

Then something has annoyed you," she
said.

No, I answered, nothing had annoyed me.

But there is something," she said.

Yes," I said, " there is something."

Tell me," she said.

We were standing by a rosebush, and I
plucked one absently, and absently plucked
the leaves. She looked at me in silence fora
moment or two and said, " This is the first
time I have ever seen you destroy a flower."

I was not thinking of it," I said ; and
was about to throw it away when an impulse,
born purely of love for what was graceful
and sweet, restrained me, and I put it into
my pocket. In this the most impressive epoch

in my life no sentiment but that of tenderness
could hold a place in my heart and mind.

Well ? " she said, still not suspecting.
Tell me."

Lauretta," I said, taking her hand, which
she left willingly in mine, " will you listen to
the story of my life ? "

You have already told me much," she said.

You have heard only a part," I said, and

I gently urged her to a seat. " I wish you

to know all ; I wish you to know me as I

really am."

I know you as you really are," she said,
and then a faint colour came to her cheeks,
and she trembled slightly, seeing a new
meaning in my earnest glances.

May I tell you ? May I sit beside you ? "
"Yes," she said, and gently withdrew her
hand from mine.

I told her all, withholding only from her

those mysterious promptings of my lonely
hours which I knew would distress her, and
to which I was convinced, with her as my
companion through life, there would be forever
an end. Of even those promptings I
gave her some insight, but so toned down —
for her sweet sake, not for mine — as to
excite only her sympathy. Apart from this,
I was at sincere pains that she should see
my life as it had really been, a life stripped
of the joys of childhood ; a life stripped of the
light of home ; a life dependent upon itself
for comfort and support. Then, unconsciously,
and out of the suffering of my soul
for as I spoke it seemed to me that a
cruel wrong had been perpetrated upon mein
the past — I contrasted the young life I
had been condemned to live with that of a
child who was blessed with parents whose
hearts were animated by a love the evidences

of which would endure all through his afterlife
as a sweet and purifying influence. The
tears ran down her cheeks as I dwelt upon
this part of my story. Then I spoke of the
happy chance which had conducted me to
her home, and of the happiness I had experienced
in my association with her and hers.

Whatever fate may be mine," I said, " I
shall never reflect upon these experiences, I
shall never think of your dear parents, without
gratitude and affection. Lauretta, it is
with their permission I am here now by
your side. It is with their permission that
I am opening my heart to you. They
know we are here together. I love you,
Lauretta, and if you will bless me with
your love, and place your hand in mine,
all my life shall be devoted to your happiness.
You can bring a blessing into my days ;
I will strive to bring a blessing into yours."

vol. 11. p

My arm stole round her waist ; her head
drooped to my shoulder, so that her face was
hidden from my ardent gaze ; the hand I
clasped was not withdrawn.

Lauretta," I whispered, " say ' I love
you, Gabriel.' "

I love you, Gabriel," she whispered ; and
heaven itself opened out to me.

Half an hour later we went in to her
mother, and the noble woman held out her
arms to her daughter. As the maiden nestled
to her breast, she said, holding out a hand tome,
which I reverently kissed, "God in His
mercy keep guard over you ! His blessing
be upon you both ! "

.AA. AL .J/, .A/, 3V

T^ *«* W "*V ^T

These are my last written words in the
record I have kept. From this day I
commence a new life.

IN WHICH THE SECRET OF THE INHERITANCE
TRANSMITTED TO GABRIEL CAREW IS Revealed
IN A SERIES OF LETTERS FROM
ABRAHAM Sandal, ESQ., ENGLAND, TO
HIS FRIEND, MAXIMILIAN Galling, ESQ.,
CONTRA COSTA CO., CALIFORNIA.

P 2

My Dear Max, — For many months past
you have complained that I have been
extremely reticent upon domestic matters,
and that I have said little or nothing
concerning my son Reginald, who, since
you quitted the centres of European civilisation
to bury yourself in a sparsely populated
Paradise, has grown from childhood
to manhood. A ripe manhood, my dear
Max, such as I, his father, approve of, and
to the future development of which, now
that a grave and strange crisis in his
life has come to a happy ending, I look

forward with loving interest. It is, I
know, your affection for Reginald that
causes you to be anxious for news of him.
Well do I remember when you informed
me of your fixed resolution to seek not
only new scenes but new modes of life,
how earnestly you strove to prevail upon
me to allow him to accompany you.

He is young and plastic," you said,
and I can train him to happiness. The
fewer the wants, the more contented the
lot of man."

You wished to educate Reginald according
to the primitive views to which you
had become so strongly wedded, and you
did your best to convert me to them,
saying, I remember, that I should doubtless
suffer in parting with Reginald, but
that it was a father's duty to make sacrifices
for his children. You did not

succeed. My belief was, and is, that man
is born to progress, and that to go back
into primitiveness, to commence again, as it
were, the history of the world and mankind,
as though we had been living in
error through all the centuries, is a folly.
I did not apply this criticism to you ; I
regarded your new departure not as a folly,
but as a mistake. I doubt even now
whether it has made you happier than
you were, and I fancy I detect here and
there in your letters a touch of sadness
and regret — of which perhaps you are unconscious
— that you should have cut yourself
away from the busy life of multitudes
of people. However, it is not my purpose
now to enlarge upon this theme. The
history I am about to relate is personal
to myself and to Reginald, whose destiny
it has been to come into close contact

with a family, the head of which, Gabriel
Carew, affords a psychological study as
strange probably as was ever presented to
the judgment of mankind.

There are various reasons for my undertaking
a task which will occupy a
great deal of time and entail considerable
labour. The labour will be interesting tome,
and its products no less interesting to
you, who were always fond of the mystical.
I have leisure to apply myself to it.
Reginald is not at present with me ; he
has left me for a few weeks upon a
mission of sunshine. This will sound
enigmatical to you, but you must content
yourself with the gradual and intelligible
unfolding of the wonderful story I am about
to narrate. Like a skilful narrator I shall
not weaken the interest by giving information
and presenting pictures to you in

the wrong places. The history is one
which it is my opinion should not be lost
to the world ; its phases are so remarkable
that it will open up a field of inquiry
which may not be without profitable
results to those who study psychological
mysteries. A few years hence I should
not be able to recall events in their logical
order ; I therefore do so while I
possess the power and while my memory
is clear with respect to them.

You will soon discover that neither I
nor Reginald is the principal character in
this drama of life. That position is occupied
by Mr. Gabriel Carew, the owner of
an estate in the county of Kent, known as
RosemulKon.

My labours will be thrown away unless
you are prepared to read what I shall
write with unquestioning faith. I shall set

down nothing but the truth, and you
must accept it without a thought of casting
doubt upon it. That you will wonder
and be amazed is certain ; it would, indeed,
be strange otherwise ; for in all
your varied experiences (you led a busy
and eventful life before you left us) you
met with none so singular and weird as
the events which I am about to bring to
your knowledge. You must accept also
as the best and most suitable form
through which you will be made familiar
not only with the personality of Gabriel
Carew, but with the mysterious incidents
of his life — the methods I shall adopt in
the unfolding of my narrative. They are
such as are frequently adopted with success
by writers of fiction, and as my material
is fact, I am justified in pressing it into
my service. I am aware that objection

may be taken to it on the ground that I
shall be presenting you with conversations
between persons of which I was not a
witness, but I do not see in what other
way I could offer you an intelligent and
intelligible account of the circumstances of
the story. All that I can therefore do is
to promise that I will keep a strict curb
upon my imagination and will not allow it
to encroach upon the domains of truth.
With this necessary prelude I devote
myself to my task.

Before, however, myself commencing the
work there is something essential for you
to do. Accompanying my own manuscript
is a packet, carefully sealed and secured, on
the outer sheet of which is written, " Not
to be disturbed or opened until instructions
to do so are given by Abraham Sundial
to his friend Maximilian Gallenofa." The
precaution is sufficient to whet any man's
curiosity, but is not taken to that end.
It is simply in pursuance of the plan I
have designed, by which you will become
possessed of all the details and particulars

for the proper understanding of what I
shall impart to you. The packet, my dear
Max, is neither more nor less than a life
record made by Gabriel Carew himself upto
within a few months of his marriage,
which took place twenty years ago in the
village of Nerac. The lady Gabriel Carew
married was the daughter of Doctor Louisa
gentleman of rare acquirements, and
distinguished both for his learning and
benevolence. There is no evidence in the
record as to whether its recital was spread
over a number of years, or was begun
and finished within a few months ; but
that matters little. It bears the impress
of absolute truth and candour, and apart
from its startling revelations you will recognise
in it a picturesqueness of description
hardly to be expected from one who
had not made a study of literature. Its

perusal will perplexedly stir your mind,
and in the feelings it will excite towards
Gabriel Carew there will most likely bean
element of pity, the reason for which
you will find it difficult to explain. "Season
your admiration for a while ; " before I
am at the end of my task the riddle will
be solved.

As I pen these words I can realise
your perplexity during your perusal of the
record as to the manner in which my son
Reginald came be associated with so
strange a man as the writer. But this is
a world of mystery, and we can never hope
to find a key to its spiritual workings.
With respect to this particular mystery
nothing shall be hidden from you. You
will learn how I came to be mixed up in
it ; you will learn how vitally interwoven
it threatened to be in Reginald's life ; you

will learn how Gabriel Carew's manuscript
fell into my hands ; and the mystery of his
life will be revealed to you.

Now, my dear Max, you can unfasten
the packet, and read the record.

I assume that you are now familiar with
the story of Gabriel Carew's life up to the
point, or within a few months, of his marriage
with Lauretta, and that you have formed
some opinion of the different persons with
whom he came in contact in Nerac. Outside
Nerac there was only one person who can be
said to have been interested in his fate ; this
was his mother's nurse, Mrs. Fortress, and
you must be deeply impressed by the part
she played in the youthful life of Gabriel
Carew. Of her I shall have to speak in due
course.

I transport you in fancy to Nerac, my dear
Max, where I have been not very long ago,
and where I conversed with old people who
to this day remember Gabriel Carew and his
sweet wife Lauretta, whom he brought with
him to England some little time after their
marriage. It is not likely that the incidents
in connection with Gabriel Carew and his
wife will be forgotten during this generation
or the next in that loveliest of villages.

When you laid aside Carew's manuscript
he had received the sanction of Lauretta's
mother to his engagement with the sweet
maid, and the good woman had given her
children her blessing. Thereafter Gabriel
Carew wrote : " These are my last written
words in the record I have kept. From this
day I commence a new life." He kept his
word with respect to his resolve not to add
another word to the record. He sealed it

VOL. II. Q

up and deposited it in his desk ; and it is my
belief that from that day he never read a
line of its contents.

We are, then, my dear Max, in Nerac,
you and I in spirit, in the holiday time of
the open courtship of Gabriel Carew and
Lauretta. Carew is occupying the house of
which it was his intention to make Lauretta
the mistress, and there are residing in it,
besides the ordinary servants, Martin Hartog,
the gardener, and his daughter, with whom,
from Carew's record, Emilius was supposed
to be carrying on an intrigue of a secret and
discreditable nature. It is evident, from the
manner in which Carew referred to it, that
he considered it dishonourable. The name
of this girl was Patricia.

There remain to be mentioned, as characters
in the drama then being played, Doctor
Louis, Eric, and Father Daniel.

The crimes of the two ruffians who had
attempted to enter Doctor Louis's house
remained for long fresh in the memories of
the villagers. They were both dead, one
murdered, the other executed for a deed
of which only one person in Nerac had
an uneasy sense of his innocence — Father
Daniel. The good priest, having received
from the unfortunate man a full account of
his life from childhood, journeyed shortly
afterwards to the village in which he had
been born and was best known, for the purpose
of making inquiries into its truth. He
found it verified in every particular, and he
learnt, moreover, that although the hunchback
had been frequently in trouble, it was
rather from sheer wretchedness and poverty
than from any natural brutality of disposition
that he had drifted into crime. It stood to
his credit that Father Daniel could trace to

Q 2

him no acts of cruel violence ; indeed, the
priest succeeded in bringing to light two or
three circumstances in the hunchback's career
which spoke well for his humanity, one of
them being that he was kind to his bedridden
mother. Father Daniel returned to
Nerac much shaken by the reflection that
in this man's case justice had been in error.
But if this were so, if the hunchback were
innocent, upon whom to fix the guilt ? A
sadness weighed upon the good priest's heart
as he went about his daily duties, and gazed
upon his flock with an awful suspicion in his
mind that there was a murderer among them,
for whose crime an innocent man had been
executed.

Gabriel Carew was happy. The gloom of
his early life, which threatened to cast dark
shadows over all his days, seemed banished
for ever. He was liked and respected in the

village in which he had found his happiness ;
his charities caused men and women to hold
him in something like affectionate regard ;
he was Father Daniel's friend, and no case
of suffering or poverty was mentioned to him
which he was not ready to relieve ; in Doctor
Louis's home he held an honoured place ;
and he was loved by a good and pure woman,
who had consented to link her fate with his.
Surely in this prospect there was nothing
that could be productive of aught but good.

The sweetness and harmony of the time,
however, were soon to be disturbed. After a
few weeks of happiness, Gabriel Carew began
to be troubled. In his heart he had no love
for the twin brothers, Eric and Emilius ; he
believed them to be light-minded and unscrupulous,
nay, more, he believed them to be
treacherous in their dealings with both men
and women. These evil qualities, he had

decided with himself, they had inherited from
their father, Slain, whose conduct towards
his unhappy brother Kristel had excited
Gabriel Carew's strong abhorrence. As is
shown in the comments he makes in his
record, all his sympathy was with Kristel,
and he had contracted a passionate antipathy
against Slain, whom he believed to be
guilty of the blackest treachery in his
dealings with Avicia. This antipathy he
now transferred to Villains sons, Eric and
Emilius, and they needed to be angels, not
men, to overcome it.

Not that they tried to win Carew's good
opinion. Although his feelings for them
were not openly expressed, they made themselves
felt in the consciousness of these twin
brothers, who instinctively recognised that
Gabriel Carew was their enemy. Therefore
they held off from him, and repaid him quietly

in kind. But this was a matter solely and
entirely between themselves and known only
to themselves. The three men knew what
deep pain and grief it would cause not only
Doctor Louis and his wife, but the gentle
Lauretta, to learn that they were in enmity
with each other, and one and all were
animated by the same desire to keep this
antagonism from the knowledge of the family.
This was, indeed, a tacit understanding between
them, and it was so thoroughly carried
out that no member of Doctor Louis's family
suspected it ; and neither was it suspected in
the village. To all outward appearance Gabriel
Carew and Eric and Emilius were friends.

It was not the brothers but Carew who, in
the first instance, was to blame. He was
the originator ad the creator of the trouble,
for it is scarcely to be doubted that had he
held out the hand of a frank friendship to

them, they would have accepted it, even
though their acceptance needed some sacrifice
on their parts. The reason for this
qualification will be apparent to you later on
in the story, and you will then also understand
why I do not reveal certain circumstances
respecting the affection of Eric and Emilius
for Martin Hartog's daughter, Patricia, and
for the female members of the family of
Doctor Louis. It would be anticipating
events. I am relating the story in the order
in which it progressed, and, so far as my
knowledge of it goes, according to the
sequence of time.

Certainly the dominant cause of Gabriel
Carew's hatred for the brothers sprang from
his jealousy of them with respect to Lauretta.
They and she had been friends from childhood,
and they were regarded by Doctor
Louis and his wife as members of their

family. This in itself was sufficient to inflame
so exacting a lover as Carew. He interpreted
every innocent little familiarity to their disadvantage,
and magnified trifles inordinately.
They saw his sufferings and were, perhaps,
somewhat scornful of them. He had already
shown them how deep was his hatred of
them, and they not unnaturally resented it.
After all, he was a stranger in Nerac, a come-mischance
visitor, who had usurped the place
which might have been occupied by one of
them had the winds been fair. Instead of
being overbearing and arrogant he should
have been gracious and conciliating. It was
undoubtedly his duty to be courteous and
mannerly from the first day of their acquaintance
; instead of which he had, before he
saw them, contracted a dislike for them which
he had allowed to swell to monstrous and
unjustifiable proportions.

Gabriel Carew, however, justified himself
to himself, and it may be at once conceded
that he had grounds for his feelings which
were to him — and would likely have been to
some other men — sufficient. These may now
be set forth.

When a lover's suspicious and jealous
nature is aroused it does not from that
moment sleep. There is no rest, no repose
for it. If it require opportunities for confirmation
or for the infliction of self-suffering,
it is never difficult to find them. I imagination
steps in and supplies the place of fact.
Every hour is a torture ; every innocent look
and smile is brooded over in secret. A most
prolific, unreasonable, and cruel breeder of
shadows is jealousy, and the evil of it is that
it breeds in secret.

Gabriel Carew set himself to watch, and
from the keen observance of a nature so

3o

thorough and intense as his nothing could
escape. He was an unseen witness of other
interviews between Patricia Hartog and
Emilius ; and not only of interviews between
her and Emilius but between her and Eric.
He formed his conclusions. The brothers
were playing false to each other, and the
girl was playing false with both. This was
of little account ; he had no more than a
passing interest in Patricia, and although atone
time he had some kind of intention of
informing Martin Hartog of these secret
interviews, and placing the father on his
guard — for the gardener seemed to be quite
unaware that an intrigue was going on —
he relinquished the intention, saying that it
was no affair of his. But it confirmed the
impressions he had formed of the character
of Eric and Emilius, and it strengthened
him in his determination to allow no

intercourse between them and the woman he
loved.

An additional torture was in store for
him, and it fell upon him like a thunderbolt.
One day he saw Emilius and Lauretta walking
in the woods, talking earnestly and
confidentially together. His blood boiled ;
his heart beat so violently that he could
scarcely distinguish surrounding objects. So
violent was his agitation that it was many
minutes before he recovered himself, and
then Lauretta and Emilius had passed out
of sight. He went home in a wild fury of
despair.

He had not been near enough to hear
one word of the conversation, but their
attitude was to him confirmation of his
jealous suspicion that the young man was
endeavouring to supplant him in Lauretta's
affections. In the evening he saw Lauretta

in her home, and she noticed a change in
him.

Are you ill, Gabriel ? " she asked.

No," he replied, u I am quite well.
What should make me otherwise ? "

The bitterness in his voice surprised her,
and she insisted that he should seek repose.
To get me out of the way," he thought ;
and then, gazing into her solicitous and
innocent eyes, he mutely reproached himself
for doubting her. No, it was not she who
was to blame ; she was still his, she was
still true to him ; but how easy was it fora
friend so close to her as Emilius to instil
into her trustful heart evil reports against
himself ! " That is the first step," he
thought. " What must follow is simple.
These men, these villains, are capable of
any treachery. Honour is a stranger to
their scheming natures. How shall I act ?

To meet them openly, to accuse them
openly, may be my ruin. They are too
firmly fixed in the affections of Doctor
Louis and his wife — they are too firmly
fixed in the affections of even Lauretta
herself — for me to hope to expose them
upon evidence so slender. Not slender
to me, but to them. These treacherous
brothers are conspiring secretly against me.
I will meet them with their own weapons.
Secrecy for secrecy. I will wait and watch
till I have the strongest proof against them,
and then I will expose their true characters
to Doctor Louis and Lauretta."

Having thus resolved, he was not the
man to swerve from the plan he laid down.
The nightly vigils he had kept in his
young life served him now, and it seemed
as if he could do without sleep. The
stealthy meetings between Patricia and the

brothers continued, and before long he saw
Eric and Lauretta in the woods together.
In his espionage he was always careful not
to approach near enough to bring discovery
upon himself.

In an indirect manner, as though it was
a matter which he deemed of slight i m
portance, he questioned Lauretta as to her
walks in the woods with Eric and Emilius.

Yes," she said artlessly, " we sometimes
meet there."

By accident ? " asked Gabriel Carew.

Not always by accident," replied Laureate.
" Remember, Gabriel, Eric and
Emilius are as my brothers, and if they

have a secret " And then she blushed,

grew confused, and paused.

These signs were poisoned food indeed
to Carew, but he did not betray
himself.

11 Have they a secret ? " he asked, with
assumed carelessness.

It was wrong of me to speak," said
Lauretta, " after my promise to say nothing
to a single soul in the village."

And most especially," said Carew,
hitting the mark, " to me."

She grew more confused. " Do not
press me, Gabriel."

Only," he continued, with slight persistence,
" that it must be a heart secret."

She was silent, and he dropped the
subject.

From the interchange of these few words
he extracted the most exquisite torture.
There was, then, between Lauretta and the
brothers a secret of the heart, known only
to themselves, to be revealed to none, and
to him, Gabriel Carew, to whom the young
girl was affianced, least of all. It must be

well understood, in this explanation of what
was occurring in the lives of these young
people at that momentous period, that
Gabriel Carew never once suspected that
Lauretta was false to him. His great
fear was that Eric and Emilius were
working warily against him, and were
cunningly fabricating some kind of evidence
in his disfavour which would rob him of
Lauretta's love. They were conspiring to
this end, to the destruction of his happiness,
and they were waiting for the hour to strike
the fatal blow. Well, it was for him to
strike first. His love for Lauretta was so
all-absorbing that all other considerations —
however serious the direct or indirect
consequences of them — sank into utter insignificance
by the side of it. He did not
allow it to weigh against Lauretta that she
appeared to be in collusion with Eric and
VOL. 11. R

Emilius, and to be favouring their schemes.
Her nature was so guileless and unsuspecting
that she could be easily led and
deceived by friends in whom she placed a
trust. It was this that strengthened Carew
in his resolve not to rudely make the
attempt to open her eyes to the perfidy of
Eric and Emilius. She would have been
incredulous, and the arguments he should
use against his enemies might be turned
against himself. Therefore he adhered to
the line of action he had marked out. He
waited, and watched, and suffered. Meanwhile,
the day appointed for his union with
Lauretta was approaching.

Within a fortnight of that day Gabriel
Carew's passions were roused to an almost
uncontrollable pitch.

It was evening, and he saw Eric and
Emilius in the woods. They were conversing
with more than ordinary animation,
and appeared to be discussing some question
upon which they did not agree. Carew saw
signs which he could not interpret — appeals,
imploring, evidences of strong feeling on
one side and of humbleness on the other,
despair from one, sorrow from the other ;
and then suddenly a phase which startled

R 2

the watcher and filled him with a savage
joy. Eric, in a paroxysm, laid hands
furiously upon his brother, and it seemed
for a moment as if a violent struggle were
about to take place.

It was to the restraint and moderation
of Emilius that this unbrotherly conflict
was avoided. He did not meet violence
with violence ; after a pause he gently lifted
Eric's hands from his shoulders, and with
a sad look turned away, Eric gazing at his
retreating figure in a kind of bewilderment.
Presently Emilius was gone, and only Eric
remained.

He was not long alone. From an
opposite direction to that taken by Emilius
the watcher saw approaching the form of
the woman he loved, and to whom he was
shortly to be wed. That her coming
was not accidental, but in fulfilment of a

promise was clear to Gabriel Carew. Eric
expected her, and welcomed her without
surprise. Then the two began to converse.


Carew's heart beat tumultuously ; he
would have given worlds to hear what
was being said, but he was at too great a
distance for a word to reach his ears. Fora
time Eric was the principal speaker,
Lauretta, for the most part, listening, and
uttering now and then merely a word or
two. In her quiet way she appeared to
be as deeply agitated as the young man
who was addressing her in an attitude of
despairing appeal. Again and again it
seemed as if he had finished what he had
to say, and again and again he resumed,
without abatement of the excitement under
which he was labouring. At length he
ceased, and then Lauretta became the

principal actor in the scene. She spoke
long and forcibly, but always with that
gentleness of manner which was one of her
sweetest characteristics. In her turn she
seemed to be appealing to the young man,
and to be endeavouring to impress upon
him a sad and bitter truth which he was
unwilling, and not in the mood, to recognise.
For a long time she was unsuccessful
; the young man walked impatiently a
few steps from her, then returned, contrite
and humble, but still with all the signs of
great suffering upon him. At length her
words had upon him the effect she desired ;
he wavered, he held out his hands helplessly,
and presently covered his face with
them and sank to the ground. Then, after
a silence, during which Lauretta gazed compassionately
upon his convulsed form, she
stooped and placed her hand upon his

shoulder. He lifted his eyes, from which
the tears were flowing, and raised himself
from the earth. He stood before her with
bowed head, and she continued to speak.
The pitiful sweetness of her face almost
drove Carew mad ; it could not be mistaken
that her heart was beating with
sympathy for Eric's sufferings. A few
minutes more passed, and then it seemed
as if she had prevailed. Eric accepted the
hand she held out to him, and pressed his
lips upon it. Had he at that moment been
within Gabriel Carew's reach, it would have
fared ill with both these men, but Heaven
alone knows whether it would have averted
what was to follow before the setting of
another sun, to the consternation and grief
of the entire village. After pressing
his lips to Lauretta's hand, the pair
separated, each going a different way,

and Gabriel Carew ground his teeth ashe
observed that there were tears in
Lauretta's eyes as well as in Eric's. A
darkness fell upon him as he walked
homewards.

The following morning Nerac and the
neighbourhood around were agitated by
news of a tragedy more thrilling and terrible
than that in which the hunchback and
his companion in crime were concerned. In
attendance upon this tragedy, and preceding
its discovery, was a circumstance stirring
enough in its way in the usually quiet life
of the simple villagers, but which, in the
light of the mysterious tragedy, would have
paled into insignificance had it not been that
it appeared to have a direct bearing upon it.
Martin Hartog's daughter, Patricia, had fled

from her home, and was nowhere to be
discovered.

This flight was made known to the
villagers early in the morning by the
appearance among them of Martin Hartog,
demanding in which house his daughter
had taken refuge. The man was distracted ;
his wild words and actions excited great
alarm, and when he found that he could
obtain no satisfaction from them, and that
every man and woman in Nerac professed
ignorance of his daughter's movements, he
called down heaven's vengeance upon
the man who had betrayed her, and
left them to search the woods for
Patricia.

The words he had uttered in his imprecations
when he called upon a higher
power for vengeance on a villain opened
the villagers' eyes. Patricia had been

betrayed. By whom ? Who was the monster
who had worked this evil ?

While they were talking excitedly together
they saw Gabriel Carew hurrying to the
house of Father Daniel. He was admitted,
and in the course of a few minutes emerged
from it in the company of the good priest,
whose troubled face denoted that he had
heard the sad news of Patricia's flight from
her father's home. The villagers held aloof
from Father Daniel and Gabriel Carew, seeing
that they were in earnest converse.
Carew was imparting to the priest his suspicions
of Eric and Emilius in connection
with this event; he did not mention
Lauretta's name, but related how on several
occasions he had been an accidental
witness of meetings between Patricia and
one or other of the brothers.

"It was not for me to place a construction

upon these meetings," said Carew, " nor
did it appear to me that I was called upon
to mention it to any one. It would have
been natural for me to suppose that Martin
Hartog was fully acquainted with his
daughter's movements, and that, being of
an independent nature, he would have resented
any interference from me. He is
Patricia's father, and it was believed by
all that he guarded her well. Had he been
my equal I might have incidentally asked
whether there was anything serious between
his daughter and these brothers, but I
am his master, and therefore was precluded
from inviting a confidence which
can only exist between men occupying
the same social condition. There is,
besides, another reason for my silence
which, if you care to hear, I will impart to
you."

Nothing should be concealed from me,"
said Father Daniel.

Although," said Gabriel Carew, " I have
been a resident here now for some time,
I felt, and feel, that a larger knowledge of
me is necessary to give due and just
weight to the unfavourable opinion I have
formed of two men with whom you have
been acquainted from childhood, and who
hold a place in your heart of which they
are utterly unworthy. Not alone in your
heart, but in the hearts of my dearest
friends, Doctor Louis and his family.

You refer to Eric and Emilius," said
the priest.

"Yes, I refer to them."

"What you have already said concerning
them has deeply pained me. I do not
share your suspicions. Their meetings with
Hartog's daughter were, I am convinced,

innocent. They are incapable of an act of
baseness ; they are of noble natures, and it
is impossible that they should ever have
harboured a thought of treachery to a
young maiden."

I am more than justified," said Gabriel
Carew, "by the expression of your opinion,
in the course I took. You would have listened
with impatience to me, and what I
should have said would have recoiled on
myself. Yet now I regret that I did not
interfere ; this calamity might have been
avoided, and a woman's honour saved. Let
us seek Martin Hartog ; he may be in
possession of information to guide us."

From the villagers they learnt that
Hartog had gone to the woods, and they
were about to proceed in that direction
when another, who had just arrived, informed
them that he had seen Hartog going to

Gabriel Carew's house. Thither they proceeded,
and found Hartog in his cottage.
He was on his knees, when they entered,
before a box in which his daughter kept
her clothes. This he had forced open,
and was searching. He looked wildly at
Father Daniel and Carew, and immediately
resumed his task, throwing the girl's clothes
upon the floor after examining the pockets.
In his haste and agitation he did not
observe a portrait which he had cast aside,
Carew picked it up and handed it to
Father Daniel. It was the portrait of
Emilius.

Does this look like innocence ?" inquired
Carew. "Who is the more likely to be
right in our estimate of these brothers, you
or I?"

Father Daniel, overwhelmed by the evidence,
did not reply. By this time Martin

Hartog had found a letter which he was
eagerly perusing.

"This is the villain," he cried. "If
there is justice in heaven he has met with
his deserts. If he still lives he shall die
by my hands ! "

"Hush, hush!" murmured Father Daniel.
Vengeance is not yours to deal out.
Pray for comfort — pray for mercy."

Pray for mercy ! " cried Hartog with a
bitter laugh. " I pray for vengeance ! If
the monster be not already smitten, Lord,
give him into my hands ! I will tear him
limb from limb ! But who, who is he ?
The cunning villain has not even signed
his name ! "

Father Daniel took the letter from
his unresisting hand, and as his eyes
fell upon the writing he started and
trembled.

Emilius's ? " asked Gabriel Carew.

Alas ! " sighed the priest.

It was indeed the writing of Emilius.
Martin Hartog had heard Carew's inquiry
and the priest's reply.

What ! " he cried. " That viper ! " And
without another word he rushed from
the cottage. Carew and the priest hastily
followed him, but he outstripped them,
and was soon out of sight.

There will be a deed of violence done,"
said Father Daniel, "if the men meet. I
must go immediately to the house of these
unhappy brothers and warn them."

Carew accompanied him, but when they
arrived at the house they were informed
that nothing had been seen of Eric and
Emilius since the previous night. Neither
of them had been home nor slept in his bed.
This seemed to complicate the mystery in

vol 11. s

Father Daniel's eyes, although it was no
mystery to Carew, who was convinced that
where Patricia was there would Emilius be
found. Father Daniel's grief and horror were
clearly depicted. He looked upon the inhabitants
of Nerac as one family, and he
regarded the dishonour of Martin Hartog's
daughter as dishonour to all. Carew, being
anxious to see Lauretta, left him to his inquiries.
Dr. Louis and his family were already
acquainted with the agitating news.

Dark clouds hang over this once happy
village," said Doctor Louis to Carew.

He was greatly shocked, but he had no
hesitation in declaring that, although circumstances
looked black against the twin
brothers, his faith in them was undisturbed.
Lauretta shared his belief, and Lauretta's
mother also. Gabriel Carew did not combat
with them ; he held quietly to his views,

convinced that in a short time they would
think as he did. Lauretta was very pale,
and out of consideration for her Gabriel
Carew endeavoured to avoid the all-engrossing
subject. That, however, was impossible.
Nothing else could be thought or spoken
of. Again and again it was indirectly
referred to. Once Carew remarked to
Lauretta, " You said that Eric and Emilius
had a secret, and you gave me to understand
that you were not ignorant of it.
Has it any connection with what has
occurred ? "

I must not answer you, Gabriel," she
replied ; " when we see Emilius again all
will be explained."

Little did she suspect the awful import of
those simple words. In Carew's mind the
remembrance of the story of Kristel and
Slain was very vivid.

s 2

Were Eric and Emilius true friends ? "
he asked.

Lauretta looked at him piteously ; her
lips quivered. "They are brothers," she said.

You trust me, Lauretta ? " he said.

Indeed I do," she replied. " Thoroughly."

You love me, Lauretta ? "

"With my whole heart, Gabriel."

She gazed at him in tender surprise ; for
weeks past he had not been so happy. The
trouble by which he had been haunted took
flight.

And yet," he could not help saying,
you have a secret, and you keep it from
me !

His voice was almost gay ; there was no
touch of reproach in it.

The secret is not mine, Gabriel," she
said, and she allowed him to pass his arm
around her ; her head sank upon his breast.

"When you know all, you will approve,"
she murmured. " As I trust you, so must
you trust me.' 7

Their lips met ; perfect confidence and
faith were established between them,
although on Lauretta's side there had been
no shadow on the love she gave him.

It was late in the afternoon when Carew
was informed that Father Daniel wished to
speak to him privately. He kissed Lauretta
and went out to the priest, in whose face
he saw a new horror.

I should be the first to tell them," said
Father Daniel in a husky voice, " but I am
not yet strong enough. They will learn
soon enough without me. It is known only
to a few."

"What is known?" asked Carew. "Is
Emilius found ? "

No," replied the priest, u but Eric is. I

would not have him removed until the
magistrate, who is absent and has been sent
for, arrives. Come with me."

In a state of wonder Carew accompanied
Father Daniel out of Doctor Louis's house,
and the priest led the way to the woods.

"Why in this direction ?" inquired Gabriel
Carew. " We have passed the house in
which the brothers live."

"Wait," said Father Daniel solemnly.
'they live there no longer."

The sun was setting, and the light was
quivering on the tops of the distant trees.
Father Daniel and Gabriel Carew plunged
into the woods. There were scouts on the
outskirts, to whom the priest said, " Has the
magistrate arrived ? "

No, father," was the answer, "we expect
him every moment."

Father Daniel nodded and passed on.

"What does all this mean?" asked
Gabriel Carew.

And again the priest replied, "Wait."

From that moment until they arrived at
the spot to which Father Daniel led him,
Carew was silent. What had passed between
him and Lauretta had so filled his soul with
happiness that he bestowed but little thought
upon a vulgar intrigue between a peasant
girl and men whom he had long since condemned.
They no longer troubled him ;
they had passed for ever out of his life, and
his heart was at rest. Father Daniel and
he walked some distance into the shadows of
the forest and the night. Before him he saw
lights in the hands of two villagers who had
evidently been stationed there to keep guard.

Father Daniel ? " they cried in fearsome
voices.

"Yes," he replied, "it is I."

He conducted Gabriel Carew to a spot,
and pointed downwards with his finger ; and
there, prone and still upon the fallen leaves,
lay the body of Eric stone dead, stabbed to
the heart !

Martin Hartog," said the priest, " is in
custody on suspicion of this ruthless murder."

"Why?" asked Gabriel Carew. " What
evidence is there to incriminate him ? "

When the body was first discovered,"
said the priest, " your gardener was standing
by its side. Upon being questioned his
answer was, ' If judgment has not fallen
upon the monster, it has overtaken his
brother. The brood should be wiped off
the face of ( the earth.' He spoke no further
word."

Gabriel Carew was overwhelmed by
the horror of this discovery. The meeting
between the brothers, of which he
had been a secret witness on the previous
evening, and during which Eric had laid
violent hands on Emilius, recurred to him.
He had not spoken of it, nor did he mention
it now. There was time enough. If Martin
Hartog confessed his guilt the matter was
settled ; if he did not, the criminal must besought
elsewhere, and it would be his duty
to supply evidence which would tend to fix
the crime upon Emilius. He did not believe

Martin Hartog to be guilty ; he had already
decided within himself that Emilius had
murdered Eric, and that the tragedy of
Kristel and Slain had been repeated in the
lives of Slain's sons. There was a kind
of retribution in this which struck Gabriel
Carew with singular force. " Useless," he
thought, " to fly from a fate which is preordained.
When he recovered from the
horror which had fallen on him upon beholding
the body of Eric, he asked Father
Daniel at what hour of the day the unhappy
man had been killed.

That," said Father Daniel, " has yet to
be determined. No doctor has seen the
body, but the presumption is that when
Martin Hartog, animated by his burning
craving for vengeance, of which we were
both a witness, rushed from his cottage, he
made his way to the woods, and that he here

unhappily met the brother of the man whom
he believed to be the betrayer of his daughter.
What followed may be easily imagined."

The arrival of the magistrate put a stop
to the conversation. He listened to what
Father Daniel had to relate, and some
portions of the priest's explanations were
corroborated by Gabriel Carew. The magistrate
then gave directions that the body
of Eric should be conveyed to the courthouse
; and he and the priest and Carew
walked back to the village together.

The village will become notorious," he
remarked. " Is there an epidemic of murder
amongst us that this one should follow so
closely upon the heels of the other ? " Then,
after a pause, he asked Father Daniel
whether he believed Martin Hartog to be
guilty.

I believe no man to be guilty," said the

priest, u until he is proved so incontrovertibly.
Human justice frequently errs."

I bear in remembrance' said the magistrate,
"that you would not subscribe to the
general belief in the hunchback's guilt."

Nor do I now," said Father Daniel.

"And you," said the magistrate, turning
to Gabriel Carew, "do you believe Hartog
to be guilty ? "

I do not' replied Carew.

Do your suspicions point elsewhere ? "
asked the magistrate.

This is not the time or place," said
Carew, " for me to give expression to any
suspicion I may entertain. The first thing
to be settled is Hartog's complicity in this
murder."

True," said the magistrate.

Father Daniel believes," continued
Carew, " that Eric was murdered to-day,

within the last hour or two. That is not my
belief."

The doctors will decide that," said the
magistrate. "If the deed was not, in your
opinion, perpetrated within the last few
hours, when do you suppose it was
done ? "

Last night," Carew replied.

Have you any distinct grounds for the
belief ? "

None. You have asked me a question
which I have answered. There is no matter
of absolute knowledge involved in it ; if
there were I should be able to speak more
definitely. Until the doctors pronounce
there is nothing more to be said. But I may
say this : if Hartog is proved to be innocent,
I may have something to reveal in the
interests of justice."

The magistrate nodded and said, " By

the way, where is Emilius, and what has he
to say about it ? ' ;

Neither Eric nor Emilius," replied Father
Daniel, " slept at home last night, and since
yesterday evening Emilius has not been
seen."

The magistrate looked grave. " Is it
known where he is ? He should be instantly
summoned."

Nothing is known of him," said Father
Daniel. " Inquiries have been made, but
nothing satisfactory has been elicited."

The magistrate glanced at Carew, and
for a little while was silent. Shortly after
they reached the court-house the doctors
presented their report. In their opinion
Eric had been dead at least fourteen or
fifteen hours, certainly for longer than
twelve. This disposed of the theory that
he had been killed in the afternoon.

Their belief was that the crime was committed
shortly after midnight. In that
case Martin Hartog must be incontestably
innocent. He was able to account
for every hour of the previous day and
night. He was out until near midnight ;
he was accompanied home, and a friend
sat up with him till late, both keeping very
quiet for fear of disturbing Patricia, who
was supposed to be asleep in her room,
but who before that time had most likely
fled from her home. Moreover, it was
proved that Martin Hartog rose in the
morning at a certain time, and that it was
only then that he became acquainted with
the disappearance of his daughter. Father
Daniel and Gabriel Carew were present
when the magistrate questioned Hartog.
The man seemed indifferent as to his fate,
but he answered quite clearly the questions

put to him. He had not left his cottage
after going to bed on the previous night ;
he believed his daughter to be in her
room, and only this morning discovered
his mistake. After his interview with
Father Daniel and Gabriel Carew he rushed
from the cottage in the hope of meeting
with Emilius, whom he intended to kill ;
he came upon the dead body of Eric in
the woods, and his only regret was that
it was Eric and not Emilius.

If the villain who has dishonoured me
were here at this moment," said Martin
Hartog, " I would strangle him. No power
should save him from my just revenge ! ,J

The magistrate ordered him to be set
at liberty, and he wandered out of the
court-house a hopeless and despairing man.
Then the magistrate turned to Carew, and
asked him, now that Hartog was proved

to be innocent, what he had to reveal that
might throw light upon the crime. Carew,
after some hesitation, related what he had
seen the night before when Emilius and
Eric were together in the forest.

But," said the magistrate, " the brothers
were known to be on the most loving
terms."

So," said Carew, " were their father,
Slain, and his brother Kristel until a
woman stepped between them. Upon
this matter, however, it is not for me to
speak. Perhaps Doctor Louis can enlighten
you."

I have heard something of the story of
these hapless brothers," said the magistrate,
pondering, " but am not acquainted withall
the particulars. I will send for Doctor
Louis."

Carew then asked that he should be

VOL. II. T

allowed to go for Doctor Louis, his object
being to explain to the doctor, on their way
to the magistrate, how it was that reference
had been made to the story of Slain and
Kristel which he had heard from the doctor's
lips. He also desired to hint to Doctor
Louis that Lauretta might be in possession
of information respecting Eric and Emilius
which might be useful in clearing up the
mystery.

You have acted right," said Doctor Louis
sadly to Gabriel Carew ; " at all risks justice
must be done. Ah ! how the past comes
back to me ! And is this to be the end
of that fated family ? I cannot believe that
Emilius can be guilty of a crime so horrible ! "

His distress was so keen that Carew himself,
now that he was freed from the jealousy
by which he had been tortured with respect
to Lauretta, hoped also that Emilius would

be able to clear himself of the charge hanging
over him. But when they arrived at the
magistrate's court they were confronted by
additional evidence which seemed to tell
heavily against the absent brother. A witness
had come forward who deposed that,
being out on the previous night very late, and
taking a short cut through the woods to his
cottage, he heard voices of two men which
he recognised as the voices of Emilius and
Eric. They were raised in anger, and one —
the witness could not say which — cried out,

Well, kill me, for I do not wish to
live ! "

Upon being asked why he did not interpose,
his answer was that he did not care to
mix himself up with a desperate quarrel ; and
that as he had a family he thought the best
thing he could do was to hasten home as
quickly as possible. Having told all he

T 2

knew he was dismissed, and bade to hold
himself in readiness to repeat his evidence
on a future occasion.

Then the magistrate heard what Doctor
Louis had to say, and summed up the whole
matter thus :

The reasonable presumption is, that the
brothers quarrelled over some love affair with
a person at present unknown ; for although
Martin Har tog's daughter has disappeared,
there is nothing as yet to connect her directly
with the affair. Whether premeditatedly, orin
a fit of ungovernable passion, Emilius
killed his brother and fled. If he does not
present himself tomorrow morning in the
village he must be sought for. Nothing
more can be done to-night."

It was a melancholy night for all, to Carew
in a lesser degree than to the others, for the
crime which had thrown gloom over the

whole village had brought ease to his heart.
He saw now how unreasonable had been his
jealousy of the brothers, and he was disposed
to judge them more leniently.

On that night Doctor Louis held a private
conference with Lauretta, and received from
her an account of the unhappy difference
between the brothers. As Slain and Kristel
had both loved one woman, so had Eric and
Emilius, but in the case of the sons there
had been no supplanting of the affections.
Emilius and Patricia had lone loved each
other, and had kept their love a secret, Eric
himself not knowing it. When Emilius
discovered that his brother loved Patricia
his distress of mind was very great, and it
was increased by the knowledge that was
forced upon him that there was in Eric's
passion for the girl something of the fierce
quality which had distinguished Kristel's

passion for Avicia. In his distress he had
sought advice from Lauretta, and she had
undertaken to act as an intermediary, and to
endeavour to bring Eric to reason. On two
or three occasions she thought she had
succeeded, but her influence over Eric lasted
only as long as he was in her presence. He
made promises which he found it impossible
to keep, and he continued to hope against
hope. Lauretta did not know what had
passed between the brothers on the previous
evening, in the interview of which I was a
witness, but earlier in the day she had seen
Emilius, who had confided a secret to her
keeping which placed Eric's love for Patricia
beyond the pale of hope. He was secretly
married to Patricia, and had been so for sometime.
When Gabriel Carew heard this he
recognised how unjust he had been towards
Emilius and Patricia in the construction he

had placed upon their secret interviews.
Lauretta advised Emilius to make known
his marriage to Eric, and offered to reveal
the fact to the despairing lover, but Emilius
would not consent to this being immediately-done.
He stipulated that a week should
pass before the revelation was made ; then,
he said, it might be as well that all the world
should know it — a fatal stipulation, against
which Lauretta argued in vain. Thus it was
that in the last interview between Eric and
Lauretta, Eric was still in ignorance of the
insurmountable bar to his hopes. As it
subsequently transpired, Emilius had made
preparations to remove Patricia from Nerac
that very night. Up to that point, and at
that time nothing more was known ; but
when Emilius was tried for the murder
Lauretta's evidence did not help to clear

him, because it established beyond doubt
the fact of the existence of an animosity
between the brothers.

On the day following the discovery of the
murder, Emilius did not make his appearance
in the village, and officers were sent in search
of him. There was no clue as to the direction
which he and Patricia had taken, and
the officers, being slow-witted, were many
days before they succeeded in finding
him. Their statement, upon their return
to Nerac with their prisoner, was, that upon
informing him of the charge against him, he
became violently agitated and endeavoured
to escape. He denied that he made
such an attempt, asserting that he was
naturally agitated by the awful news, and
that for a few minutes he scarcely knew what
he was doing, but, being innocent, there was

no reason why he should make a fruitless
endeavour to avoid an inevitable inquiry
into the circumstances of a most dreadful
crime.

He was much broken down by his
position. No brother, he declared, had ever
been more fondly loved than Eric was by
him, and he would have suffered a voluntary
death rather than be guilty of an act oi
violence towards one for whom he entertained
so profound an affection. In .the
preliminary investigations he gave the following
explanation of all within his knowledge.
What Lauretta had stated was true
in every particular ; neither did he deny
Carew's evidence nor the evidence of the
villager who had deposed that, late on the
night of the murder, high words had passed
between him and Eric.

The words," said Emilius, " ' Well, kill
me, for I do not wish to live ! ' were uttered
by my poor brother when I told him that
Patricia was my wife. For although I had
not intended that this should be known
until a few days after my departure, my poor
brother was so worked up by his love for
my wife, that I felt I dared not, in justice
to him and myself, leave him any longer in
ignorance. For that reason, and thus impelled,
pitying him most deeply, I revealed
to him the truth. Had the witness whose
evidence, true as it is, seems to bear fatally
against me, waited and listened, he would
have been able to testify in my favour.
My poor brother for a time was overwhelmed
by the revelation. His love for
my wife perhaps did not die immediately
away ; but, high-minded and honourable ashe

was, he recognised that to persevere in
it would be a guilty act. The force of his
passion became less ; he was no longer
violent — he was mournful. He even, in a
despairing way, begged my forgiveness, and
I, reproachful that I had not earlier confided
in him, begged his forgiveness for the
unconscious wrong I had done him. Then,
after a while, we fell into our old ways
of love ; tender words were exchanged ; we
clasped each other's hand ; we embraced.
Truly you who hear me can scarcely realise
what Eric and I had always been to each
other. More than brothers — more like
lovers. Heartbroken as he was at the
conviction that the woman he adored was
lost to him, I was scarcely less heartbroken
that I had won her. And so, after an
hour's loving converse, I left him ; and

when we parted, with a promise to meet
again when his wound was healed, we kissed
each other as we had done in the days of
our childhood."

END OF VOL. II.



Richard CLAY AND SONS, LONDON AND BUNCiAY.
