'.♦• (LIMITED! '///

30 TOi 34.NEW OXFORD S .^yy /. '

.^ X.'SJ^

BY

B. L. FARJEON,

Author 0¥ "great POBTEB SQUAEE : A Mystery," " THE SACRED
NUGGET," "Christmas ANGEL," " GBIF," ETC.

IX THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. I.

Horton :
Wed AND Donkey,

12, YOEK STEEET, Covert Garden.

1886.

[All rights reserved.]

::^

\

\

CONTENTS.

PROLOGUE.

The Legend of the Silver Isle.

PAGE

Part I.— The Sin 1

Part II. — The Expiation . . . .25

THE STORY.

^ CHAPTER I.

^ Mauvais takes Refuge in the Silver Isle . 58

-S. CHAPTER 11.

c>^ To the Silver Isle comes an Evangeline
"^ WHOSE Lips are mute . . . .73

CHAPTER Il

To THE Silver Isle comes a new Evangeline

WHOSE Lips are animate . . . .81

CHAPTER IV.
Eanf, the Deformed 96

CHAPTER Y.

PAGE

The Eeturx of the Wanderers . . . 105

CHAPTER YL
The Story of Margaret Sylvester . .117

CHAPTER Il
Margaret axd Clarice 125

CHAPTER Viii.

Margaret continues her Story . . .150

CHAPTER IX.
The Betrayal 1G9

CHAPTER X.
Margaret tightens the Chains which bind

her to Slavery 191

CHAPTER XL
Welcome to the Silver Isle . . . < 203

CHAPTER XII.
Margaret's Diary, written in the Silver

Isle 215

CHAPTER XIII.
The Conclusion of Margaret's Diary . . 235

CHAPTER Xii.
Joseph gives Evangeline a Proof of his

Love . 255

PROLOGUE.

The Legend of the Silver Isle.

PART I. — the sin.

This precious stone, set in a silver sea,
was an island, from which a bird might fly
to England's shore and back within the
limits of the shortest day. A priceless
jewel, graced with loveliest form and
colour ; on one side rock-bound, plashed
day and night by snowy spray and foam,
and, on the other, lying asleep in a bed of
velvet sand, over which the salt waves
idled and murmured sweetest dreams. It
was Nature's holiday ground. The valleys
were summer-warm long after summer
had passed away, and as one lifted one's
head to the beautiful sky, the sun's bright
rays shone upon the face, while the crisp
fresh air, with a taste of mountain snow

VOL. I. B

in its breath, kissed brow and lip. The
seasons were in sweet rivalry. Sometimes
even in December the eye would light
upon a wonder ; green valleys " with
daisies powdered over," and the winds
would be fragrant with violets, as though
Spring's wondrous birth were near ; while
on the north side of the Silver Isle, where
rock and peak were nearest to heaven, lay
a basin of eternal snow, its white bosom
gleaming in the sun's eye from year's end
to year's end.

On the breast of the loftiest range in
the Silver Isle, seven thousand feet above
the level of the sea, rested this basin of
eternal snow, soft, and still, and treacherous.
The road to it lay over sharp rocks
and dangerous surprises formed by chasm
and precipice, into many of which a ray
of sunlight had never wandered. The
islanders avoided it in terror. On moonlight
nights they would point fearsomely
to the shadows gliding over the white
surfaces, never for a moment still, ever
changing with the changing aspect of the
moon as the clouds passed across its face ;
and, walking in the plains and valleys,
would cross themselves as a protection

against the evil spirits that haunted the
spot and held unholy revel there. From
their youngest days they were warned
never to attempt to reach the snow-land
that looked so fair and pure. " Sin is
there," they were told, " and Death. Its
bosom is stained with blood. Who ventures
there is lost " On stormy nights,
when the heavens were black, their imaginations
conjured up dread shadows moving
on the heights, and, sitting by their firesides,
parents would relate to their children
strange stories of the mysterious world
that touched the sky, and the little ones
would tremble, and hide their faces in their
frocks at the sound of thunder pealing
over the mountain tops. Then, mayhap,
a lull in the storm would occur, and the
mothers would say, —

'' Be not frightened, children. The
storm has ceased. Evil flies from, the
presence of the White Maiden. She is on
the mountain."

These stories, handed down from generation
to generation, lost nothing of the
fantastic in their transmission. They
grew like the spreading of circles on the
surface of a peaceful lake, and gathered
B 2

weird terrors from the spirit world wliicli
surrounds the real. The islanders believed
in the supernatural ; in their primitive life
the invisible was a power from which rare
streams of fancy flowed. Spirits lived in
the mountains, and haunted their woods
and streams; and Nature's voice, heard in
wind or breeze, in the hushed harmony of
forest life or the sweet plashing of the
mountain rill, in drowsy lullaby or the
fierce contention of the elements, was
pregnant with significant meaning. Apart
from these poetical currents the Silver Isle
was rich in themes of passion and suffering,
and the legend connected with the basin
of snow had its origin in a seed sown by
human hands.

How many years ago no man' could say,
for the deed lived only in the memory, and
was not witnessed by the oldest grey-beard
among them, an unforeseen and fearful
crime was committed in the isle. In that
little world were two men who, by force of
natural gifts, had grown to be like kings
in the land. The influence they wielded
over the community was unbounded.
Famous were they for their strength and
beauty, for their knowledge of husbandry.

for the love they bore each other. They
were the idols of the island, and gave the
word when to sow, when to reap, when
to gather in the harvest. Questions of
moment were submitted to them for decision.
All men yielded to them, followed
them, obeyed them. Their word was law,
aud their power was maintained, not by
the strong hand, but by gentleness and
wisdom. Their house of pine wood was
set on the crown of a hill, above the
valleys in which the warm winds lingered.
It seemed right that they should live apart
from their fellows. They were the eagles
of the isle, bright-eyed, strong-limbed, and
long enduring. In hunting, shooting, and
feats of endurance they were the masters
of all. The land around their house had
been cleared and made arable by their own
strong hands, and in a community of able
tillers they were renowned for their skill
with the plough.

Celibacy was not uncommon in the
Silver Isle ; and for that reason, and
because the moral stature of the brothers
was so far above that of their fellows, it
was not a matter for wonder that they had
not found their mates among women.

For their sakes many remained single,
unblessed and uncomplaining, for the
brothers trifled with no maiden's affections.
But it is not for men to lay down a law
for themselves in this respect; nature is
not to be denied, and when the brothers
had passed their fourth decade, the spirit
of love touched their hearts. It proved
their destruction. They were both drawn
to a lovely girl of eighteen summers, an
orphan, who exercised an almost magic
power over the islanders. As the brothers
were the heroes, so Evangeline was the
heroine of the Silver Isle. Universally
beloved, she brought happiness to the
young and comfort to the old. She was
not aware that the irresistible influence
of her sweet nature, no less than that of
her beauty, made these strong men weaker
in her presence than the weakest reed.
Her soul was the soul of a chaste and
modest maiden, and her conduct was innocent
and pure. Truly her heart was
bound to the elder of the brothers, and
the time came when the lovers stood hand
in hand, bathed in the light of the sunrise
of love.

*' Rejoice with me, my brother," said

In a Silver Sea, 7

the chosen one. '' Blessed as my life lias
been, it is now to be doubly blessed.
Evangeline is mine."

'' Thine ! " exclaimed the younger
brother, with a haggard look.

For him, in that fatal moment, the
world grew dark. But one bright star
remained — the guileless maid who raised
her face to his to receive a brother's
kiss. All other light was blotted out.

He kissed her with lips as cold as snow,
and she stood between the brothers with
unwavering faith in both.

You are my brother now," said Evangeline,
gazing with innocent trust into the
face of the younger man.

'' Aye," he answered in a hoarse voice.

If aught befall me," said the happy
lover, 'thou wilt protect Evangeline."

'* To the death."

This was a sacred custom in the isle.
One brother dead, the other remained to
comfort the bereaved heart — with a husband's
love, if it were so agreed.

When it became known that the elder
brother had chosen Evangeline for his
mate, the hearts of the islanders were
filled with gladness. '* The race of heroes

will not now die out," they said. Fetes
were held to celebrate the approaching
union of one of the heroes of the Silver
Isle with the loveliest maiden who had
ever graced it. It was a time of universal
rejoicing. The wedding-day arrived — a
fair and sunny day. Smiles were on every
lip ; the houses and the church were bright
with flowers. In the morning the bridegroom's
brother presented himself at the
house of the bride to conduct her to the
church. He gave her the bridal flowers,
and she placed them in her bosom and in
her hair. Her waist was encircled with
white roses. Her heart was a garden of
sweet thoughts. They walked to the
church, followed by the islanders, who
made this day a general holiday. By
right the bridegroom should have been in
the portal of the sacred house to receive
his bride, but he was absent. The sundial
marked the appointed time, and the
man who should have been the first to
arrive did not make his appearance. It
was strange, for he had never been a
laggard. His brother was questioned.

'what detains him?"

I know not."

^' Saw sou Mm this morning ? "

*' No. I saw him last at midnight.
He said lie wished to be alone, to commune
with his heart and with God. Such would
have been my desire, had his happy lot
been mine. We kissed and parted."

*'He was well?"

''He was well."

Whither went he ? "

I cannot say."

In what direction ? "

'' In the direction of the snow mountain."


At the words '' Such would have been
my desire, had his happy lot been mine,"
Evangeline suddenly turned her eyes
towards him. Some unaccustomed note
in his voice had strangely moved her ; but
only on her ears had it fallen with significance.
She did not speak.

No other man in the Silver Isle had
information to give. Many on the previous
night had seen the brothers depart
from the valleys with their arms around
each other, embracing. They walked
towards the heights in loving converse, as
they had often done in the begone time.

The day waned, and still no bridegroom.

The islanders stood about in clusters,
endeavouring to account for his absence.
They sent scouts in search of him, who
returned unaccompanied and unsatisfied ;
no trace of him could be discovered.
The islanders questioned Evangeline.
She did not hear their first words. Her
eyes wore an inward look ; she was
searching the past for new meanings to
words, gestures, glances, which, at the
time they were given, seemed capable only
of honest construction. She was as one
in a troubled dream.

*' Evangeline, listen to us."

Ah, pardon me ! What do you wish
to say to me ? "

You know no cause why your bridegroom
should not be here ? "

I know of none. God may ; I do not."

'' All was well between you ? "

** He never spoke ungentle word tome,
nor I to him. There was nothing
concealed between us, nothing to be concealed.
I knew his heart ; he knew mine.
Dear friends, my trouble is great."

They turned to the brother again.

Last night, when you parted from him,
he said he would be here to-day ? "

"Assuredly. To be united with this
sweet flower who was to bring heaven into
his life." He might have added, " And
hell into mine ! " but he kept his thought
close.

Yet it seemed as though Evangeline had
some consciousness of it. She looked into
his face for a moment. He returned her
look with a wild and tender smile. She
drew him aside, so that no other ears could
hear what passed between them.

Will he come ? "

I would — from the grave ! "

He peered around into the air, expecting
a presence that was not among them.
Again she looked into his face. Again he
returned her look with a wild and tender
smile.

Have sou a secret ? " she asked, in a
whisper.

Yes. A heart secret."

"Can I read it?" .

He replied with a sigh that was like a
groan. He held her hand in his. Hers
was cold as ice ; his, hot as flame.

The day drew its slow and mournful
length. A funereal gloom fell upon the
isle. The islanders made many efforts

to induce Evangeline to accompany
them home; lie would not yield to their
entreaties. " We will stay yet a little
while," she said, and " yet a little while,"
again and again. Evening came ; the
western skies were stained with blood.
It was useless to stay longer. Evangeline's
friends made a last effort to lead her
away, but she still refused to quit the
church.

"I must stay here," she said.

"Alone? Dear child, be persuaded;
come with us ! "

*'T must stay. I shall not be alone."
She spoke now to the brother. "You will
not leave me ? "

I will never leave you ! "

Fading flowers lay about her feet. Her
friends still lingered, but she entreated
them to go.

Am I not in safe hands ? Here stands
my brother, who will protect me from
harm. Go, dear friends ; God tells me it
will be for the best. Good night."

Good night, Evangeline. Dear child
of our hearts, good night ! We shall watch
and pray for you. All will be well tomorrow."


They kissed and embraced her, then
slowly left the place, with many a fond and
lingering look behind. When night fell,
only EvangeHne and the younger brother
were in the church. For a long time there
was silence. No sound was heard within
those sacred walls until the man heard a
voice cry, —

Cain ! "

He replied with a shudder, —

Who calls ? "

Again he heard the voice, —

*' Where is thy brother ? "

I know not. Am I my brother's
keeper ? "

In those familiar words, uttered in a
tone of suppressed agony, upon the girl's
affrighted soul flashed the awful truth, of
which, indeed, she had already a vague
foreshadowing. She heard not the
questions, for they proceeded from no
human tongue. It was the man's conscience
that had spoken in the dread
stillness of the night.

Only for a few moments did Evangeline's
heart faint within her. Her hand slipped
from the man's grasp, and she sank to the
ground in a passion of silent grief and

horror. Then she bit her lips until the
blood came, and rose and stood close beside
him.

Evangeline," he whispered, " have
you aught else to say ? I am ready to
answer."

He had a pitiless desire to be questioned.
The torture of his secret was too great for
him to bear.

I have said nothing," she replied. " I
have not spoken."

'' Whose voice, then, did I hear ? "

If you heard any," she said, " it was
God's."

'* So be it. Evangeline, are you very
unhappy ? "

Most unhappy ! "

'' You must be tired. It has been a
weary day."

A day never, never to be forgotten in
this world or the next ! I did not come
prepared. The bridal flowers you brought
me are still in my bosom. What mockery !
What mockery ! "

"You are not afraid of me ? "

No, I am not afraid of you."

'' Why did you elect to remain here with
me?"

To hear your confession."

Listen to it. I love you ! I love
yoii ! "

'' Ah, me ! Is love a poison, then ? "

I love you ! No man ever loved
woman as I love you ! JSTo woman can
ever again be loved as you are loved.
Time and the worlds contain for me but
one hope — Evangeline ! "

All the passion of which man's nature is
capable was expressed in this utterance.
It was as though the man had said, '' My
salvation is in your hands. My crime was
yours. You drove me to it." In that
sense she accepted it.

'' Come," she said, " and let me see of
what I have been guilty. If there is blood
upon my soul I must face it."

What would you do ? "

I would know the truth. I would seethe
truth. Come, Cain, and show me my
crime ! "

He accepted with a ghastly smile the
name by which she called him. Had
he not already answered to it ? They
walked into the open. There was a glimmering
light in the sky; the moon had
not yet risen. He gazed into Evangeline's

face, and its pallid beauty pierced his
heart like a sharp knife.

*' Does my misery hurt you ? " she
asked. " I am sorry. You must already
have suffered much."

The hapless girl's voice expressed such
utter desolation that a terrible yearning
took possession of him to console her.
He held out his arms entreatingly to her.

Evangeline," he cried, '' trust me with
your future. Find comfort here."

A gasp of most exquisite suffering
escaped her. With her open palm upon his
breast, she kept him from embracing her.

'teach me first to forget," she said;
and then she asked plaintively, " Why
have you loved me ? "

'' Why are we glad when we see the
sun?"

There are so many better than I,
more worthy of you, closer to you in
wisdom and strength. I am neither wise
nor strong ; I am but a poor unfortunate
girl, born to destroy."

Born to bless, to save ! In all this
world, there moves not a being so fair, so
beautiful."

And believing thus, you loved me."



"Accept it so."

'' If," she said solemnly, " my beauty
lias ensnared you, you must not be condemned
for it. I am truly most guilty.
Give me your tablets."

He handed them to her. She wrote a
few words upon them, and entering the
church, laid them on the altar, and afterwards
rejoined him.

You know that your brother loved
you with a most perfect love."

So loved I him, until—"

Until," she said, with a wild sob, '' I
stepped between you, and led you to
destruction. Ah ! how he worshipped
you ! You were the embodiment of a
divine nobility and strength by whose
example men were led nearer to their
Creator. All that was base and sordid
withered at your touch. You were his
hero, his angel, upon whose lightest word
he would have staked a thousand lives,
had they been his to lose. He taught me
to look up to you as I do to God. You
were to guide us in all things. ' If any
crisis in your life occurs,' your brother
said to me, ' and I am not near, place your
hand in my brother's hand. He will

VOL. I.

shelter and protect you, as I would do.
Have full faith in him, in his bravery, in
his heroism. What is right to be done
he will do, at whatever risk, for your sake
and mine.' I have treasured his words.
A crisis in my unhappy life has come, and
your brother is not here. I place my
hand in yours. I have full faith in you.
You will do what is right to be done."
'' Demand it of me. I will do it."
'' Take me, step by step, over the
ground you and your brother walked last
night. Do not fear. I shall not faint by
the way."

A strong man's strength seemed to have
entered the body of the weak and hapless
girl. There was no faltering in her steps
as, hand in hand, they walked together
towards the mountain of snow. The unfrequented
route they traversed was
marked by falling leaves from the bridal
flowers in her bosom and hair, and now
and then she plucked a rose from her
girdle and scattered its leaves upon the
road. Onward they walked, steadily, unrelentingly.
Only once did they look
back. They were on the heights, and
paused, prompted by Evangeline.

^' It was from this point," she said,
our clear friends below saw sou and your
brother clearly, with your arms round
each other's neck, embracing. It was a
brighter night than this, but if they are
looking this way they can distinguish our
forms, and they will know by our quiet
attitude that we are outwardly in harmony
with each other."

She gazed wistfully upon the houses of
the islanders which dotted the plains and
valleys beneath. The cot in which her
happy maidenhood had been passed was
within view, and there were lights in the
window of her own little room, to woo
her back to peace and home. She recognized
the meaning of the tender sign, and
answered the pathetic entreaty expressed
in the lights.

Sever again ! Oh, never, never
again ! " and then she breathed the word
Farewell ! "

They resumed their journey over the
stony ranges, upward and ever upward.
Side by side they walked, treading in
dead footsteps. The lower world grew
less, and the lights in the isle so faint
that they could now scarcely be distinct
2

gushed. The unknown world was before
them.

Your brother and you," said Evan-gene,
" did not walk this road in silence
last night ? ''

"We spoke of many things, of many
persons, chiefly of you."

Of none other ? "

'' I have said, of many."

You had a mother who is remembered
with tenderness and reverence. Did she
find no place in your converse ? "

You are torturing my soul with your
questions ! "

Are you pleading to me for pity,
because you fear to face the truth ? You
have not, then, your brother's nature. Be
silent if you choose, and leave me to find
my way alone."

He spoke now in a set, stern voice :
'^ We spoke of our mother, of the lessons
we learned at her knees, of her goodness,
of the grand purity of her life. We recalled
all the tender reminiscences of the past.
The stream we used to bathe in ; our woodland
rambles ; our dreams ; our fancies ;
our vow to live our lives together, to share
each other's joys, each other's woes — a vow

repeated when our judgments ripened and
we were men. We dallied with sweet
memories. Hold ! " he cried suddenly.
Take not another step forward ! It is
death ! On the edge of this precipice we
kissed, and parted."

At whose desire ? "

At his. He wished to be alone."

The crescent of the moon rose over the
snow mountain, and Evangeline saw that
they were standing upon the brink of a
narrow precipice, which shelved sheer down
into an awful chasm, formed by the splitting
of the rocks on either side. No man's
eye could pierce the gloom, and no man's
foot could tread the perilous descent.

"And then?" whispered Evangeline.
And then ? Proceed. There is more to
tell."

I walked slowly away. Had my will
been in my own control, I should have fled
in haste, but a demon held me in his power.
My feet were as heavy as lead ; I could
scarcely drag them on. Exhausted, I was
forced to stop and rest; and then the
demon whispered poisoned words, and
conjured up visions of happiness which
maddened me. I strove to thrust them

from me, and, rising, would have continued
my path to the valley, but an unseen force
impelled me in the direction of my brother.
My feet were free now ; I hastened quickly
back. I found him here, lying on the
ground, kissing a love-lock you had given
him. The madness of jealousy, suddenly
aroused to action, fell upon my soul and
blinded me ! The air was thick with phantoms
! Voices cried to me, ' Here lies he
who bars your way to heavenly happiness !
What deed is too terrible for dear love's
sake ? ' I raised a mass of rock, and hurled
it forward. It thundered down the abyss.
When sight was restored to me, T saw not
my brother ! "

The girl inclined her body towards him,
and gasped in horror, —

Not a sound ? Not a cry ? Gone,
without a sign ? "

He scorned to lie.

A wail rose from the abyss. Your
name — Evangeline ! "

His last word ! His last thought !
Oh, Grod be praised that he was mine in
death, as in life ! "

She knelt swiftly upon the brink of the
precipice. He held her tight so that she

should not fall over. The moon's light
had grown stronger now, and she could
see more clearly. Her eyes searched the
ground with feverish eagerness, and found
what they sought — stains of blood upon
the rocks, the life-blood of her lover lying
dead in the black depths below ! She
pressed her lips to them, and kissed them
again and again with sobs and cries of love,
and presently, when her paroxysm was
over, she rose, and with a sudden and
violent effort, twisted herself from the
grasp of the man who held her. The movement
was so unexpected that he had no
power to prevent it, else it were an easy
task for him to have borne the light, slender
form to a place of safety.

'' Stand Adhere you are ! " she cried.
Move but a hair's breadth towards me,
and I fling myself into the abyss ! "

They were separated by more than an
arm's length, and he dared not stir. The
girl's voice convinced him that her life
hung upon his slightest movement. Firm
and still as the rocks around them he stood,
with his dark eyes fixed upon Evangeline ;
and she, like a white spectre in the light
of the moon, faced him with steadfast look.

'^ Have you more to say ? " she asked.
I have told you all. I have darkened
your life ; but in my deep, undying love,
there is still a hope for you and for me ! "
*' What would you have of me ? "
The redemption of your pledge."
'ram I, then, pledged to you ? "
It is a law of the isle. In my brother's
life you were his ; now you are mine. I
have made you so by my crime ! I claim
you ! »

It is true," she murmured. " I am
his, or yours. But if I were dead — do
not stir ! There is danger in it ! If I
were dead — "

I should follow you to the other land."
Who, then, would claim me — you, or
your brother ? " Slowly she unwound the
girdle of roses round her waist, and
dropped them into the abyss. " There is
but one hope of salvation for you — to live,
when I am gone, and endeavour to expiate
the crime which has blasted the happiness
of three lives. If you do not this, my
hate shall follow you through the life
beyond the grave, and, with my hate, his
who lies below awaiting me ! I have no
feeling but sorrow for you now; I pity

you from my heart. May God pardon
you, as I do ! But before you meet us in
the hereafter, you must wash the bloodstains
from your soul ! I charge you to
live and perform this work of repentance,
for my sake, whom yoa have destroyed,
for your brother's, whom you have slain.
This is my bridal night — here, my bridal
couch ! Farewell! "

She allowed herself to fall backwards
into the abyss, and the man stood alone
upon the brink !

Part II. THE EXPIATION.

At sunrise the following morning the
islanders went to the church to seek
Evangeline. It was already known that
she had not passed the night in her home.
In the church they found the tablets left
by Evangeline upon the altar, and written
on them these words, —

None but I am guilty. The sin is
mine, and mine only, and I go to atone
for it. Be merciful to me, as Grod will be !
If you can think of me with tenderness, I

shall be glad. I shall know, for my spirit
will live for ever in this dear isle.

*' Evangeline."

The sin was hers ! What sin ? Evangeline,
the pure, the spotless maid, the
child of their hearts, gone from among
them with a sin upon her soul ! They
would have scorned themselves had they
for a single moment allowed the belief to
linger in their minds.

Whither had she gone ? The last that
was seen of her was when she was standing
on the heights the previous night.
Her lover's brother was with her, and it
was observed that they were at peace with
one another. Their attitudes proclaimed
it.

Her spirit would live for ever in this
dear isle ! Was she, then, dead ? They
dared not give utterance to the thought.
But they mourned for her as for one lost
to them.

She has gone from us," they said,
our sweet Evangeline, in the flower of
her youth ! "

Old men and women wept as they would
have done at the death of a beloved
daughter, and the younger ones went

about their duties oppressed with a heavy
weight of sadness. They had lost more
than a friend : they had lost a child, a
sister, in whom their brightest hopes were
centred. Every household felt the bereavement.
Truly their hearts went out
to the hapless Evangeline.

But was she really dead ? If so, they
must find her body, and bury it in the
sweetest spot in their beautiful isle, where
flowers would bloom and birds would sing
above her grave. The performance of this
last sad office was a sacred duty.

By the aid of the bridal flowers which
were scattered on the road they tracked
Evangeline up the heights. Their search
was vain — they discovered nothing. Beyond
a certain point all traces were lost,
and nought remained to direct them
farther. They returned to the plains in
sad perplexity. Every flower they found
was treasured, and distributed among
Evangeline's dearest friends. For long,
long afterwards the faded leaves were
shown by the old people to their grandchildren,
and Evangeline's story told, with
tearful eyes and in tones of tenderness.

Later on, wrath was mingled with

sadness. A guilty deed had been perpetrated
— a fatal mystery was in their midst,
and the clue was in the hands of those
who held aloof from them. Where was
the bridegroom who had brought desolation
and death to Evangeline ? Where
the brother, to whom, but a few hours
since, they had entrusted the unfortunate
girl?

At the end of a fortnight he suddenly
appeared among them. The news spread
from one end of the Silver Isle to the
other, and the islanders hastened to meet
him. They gazed upon him with wonder.
He had grown twenty years older in less
than that number of days. His hair and
beard were gray ; his eyes were wild with
inward suffering ; his cheeks were furrowed
with deep lines ; and the corners of
his lips were drawn in. He looked like
one whose mind and body had received a
shock from which it was impossible to
recover.

The islanders deemed him crazed, for
when they approached him, he shrank
from them, and gazed at them, now
vacantly as he would have gazed at
strangers, now fiercely as he would have

gazed at enemies. They held consultation
among themselves, and decided that it was
necessary they should ask him certain
questions, and that he should answer them.
It might be that he was the only human
being in whose power it was to give them
information of the fate of Evangeline and
her lover.

He strode past the houses in silence,
and the islanders confronted and questioned
him. He shook them off* savagely,
and took no notice of their words. He
had come to the plains with a purpose in
his mind, and he walked straight to the
house of the priest.

Land, and cattle, and grain, are
mine," he said to the priest, without preliminary.
'' Sit you down, and take
reckoning of them from my lips."

The priest obeyed him, as in the past
all had done, and noted every particular
furnished him by the unhappy man, who
then in simple words dictated a deed of
gift of all his property, to be disposed of
in the service of the poor and of God.
Even in the Silver Isle there were men
less fortunate than their fellows.

''I come to you," he said gloomily to

the priest, "because I know you to be a
just mau. I dispossess myself of all
worldly wealth. Dispose of it in such a
manner as may bring happiness and comfort
to some who are deserving."

I will hold it," said the priest gently,
in trust for you. In a little while, when
your mind is calmer, you will resume your
place among men, chastened by the grief
which afflicts you."

I have lost my place, and can never
regain it, shall never strive to regain it.
You have known me from childhood, and
have never known me to waver. I shall
not waver now by a hair's breadth " — he
shuddered as the words escaped his lips,
for they had been spoken by Evangeline
when they stood together by the abyss
which was now her grave — "from the
resolution I have formed. I have sworn a
solemn oath never, after I quit these
plains, to visit them again, and never
again to speak to mortal man. To break
this oath would further imperil what is
already imperilled — my soul ! My business
with mankind is at an end, and the
words I speak to you this day are irrevocable.
I deemed it right to come once

ea.

more among you, and make this disposition
of my wealth. It is done, and I
stand naked before heaven. Look upon
me as a dead man, and waste no thought
upon me."

He turned to go, but the priest with
gentleness detained him.

"My son," he said, raising his hands,
let me bless you ! "

God forbid," cried the man, " that I
should be so base as to bend my head !
Priest, I am not worthy of a blessing ; nor
will man's prayers avail me. "What remains
for me to do rests only with myself."

Thus he would have departed without
another word, but was not permitted.
The chief men in the isle had formed
themselves into a tribunal, and they
demanded that he should appear before
them. For a moment he debated whether
he should obey the order ; assuredly it
depended upon himself, for it was scarcely
likely that violence would be offered him
if he refused ; but he attended without
resistance, and stood before the chiefs
of the Silver Isle, erect as of old, with
inscrutable eyes and haughty demeanour.
They were assembled on a platform built

in the centre of an open space of ground,
within wliicli, at stated times of the year,
athletic games were indulged in by the
youth of the isle. Around the platform
were gathered at least a couple of hundred
of the islanders, men and women.

*' Have you constituted yourselves my
judges?" asked the brother ; "and if so,
for what am I to be judged ? "

We are your friends," said the oldest
man there, "as we have ever been, and
we desire to soften, not to harden. We
know your iron will, and how indomitable
you are in your resolves. But no man is
infallible and immaculate. Human judgment,
under the influence of passion, is
but a will-o'-the-wisp, leading us too often
astray in matters of great moment ; and
if, suffering as you are suffering — for
it is plain to all of us that your soul
has been wrought — you have resolved
to depart without a word of explanation
regarding the events which have thrown
our isle into mourning, I ask you in the
name of justice to pause and reflect. You
and your brother were ever just. You
lived among us, honoured and revered.
We submitted ourselves to you in matters

of life and death, and jour will was law.
We look now for justice at your hands."

'' How shall I render it ? "

Bj satisfying our reasonable demands.
Evangeline was our daughter, and her
honour is ours."

'^ She is pure and stainless."

Who dare believe otherwise ? Our
belief in her purity comes not only from
our hearts ; it is in our conscience — a fixed
faith — as is our faith in God. But weare
also bound to her by a feeling more
selfishly human than our belief in a Hereafter
and in the greatness of the Supreme.
Look around upon the women who have
followed you with eyes of love and
devotion as the embodiment of what is
noblest and best in our erring natures.
Your name was ever upon our lijos ; you
were held up as an example. Shall you
now, by an act which reason cannot justify,
destroy the heroic standard you have
created and set up in the isle ? You will
see how closely it touches us, whose aim
it is to live honest lives. You will shake
our faith in human justice and manly
honour if you depart in silence from
amongst us. Evangeline, an orphan, was

VOL. I. D

left to our care ; she was our daughter, our
sister, who grew to womanhood in our
midst with a heart as pure as the heart of
a lily. She drew us nearer to heaven by
her sweetness. There beats not a heart
in the isle that is not in mourning for
Evangeline. We seek knowledge of her,
and you alone can give it. If, as many
suspect, there is between you and her a
secret which may not be divulged, we do
not press you to divulge it. We stand
only within our rights."

Demand them."

Where is Evangelist ? "

*' She is dead ! "

Prepared as they were for it, the answer
came upon them with the force of a new
grief. Tears streamed down their faces,
and sobs burst from many a bosom.
Among them all the brother alone stood
outwardly unmoved.

*' Where is your brother ? " they presently
asked.

He is dead."

This news also shook them, and it was
many moments before they asked, —

Lived he on the morning he was to be
united to Evangeline ? "

"He died'* was the reply, '' before we
met together in the church."

'* And Evangeline knew it not — had no
forewarning of it ? "

'' She knew it not. She had no forewarning
of it. Think of her as she was on
that fatal morning, radiant and beautiful,
animated by life's sweetest promise, and
ask yourselves whether it were possible she
could have seen the cloud that was hanging
over her."

They derived a sad satisfaction from the
knowledge that Evangeline's lover had
not been false to her. Their faith in him
was restored; he had played no base
part.

"We sought Evangeline," said the
spokesman of the tribunal, " and could
not find her. We feared that she was
dead, and desired to give her Christian
burial."

It is impossible. She died for love,
and cast herself from the heights into an
unfathomable abyss. Her body is lost.
Only her spirit remains."

"On the altar of the church we found
these tablets. They are yours. Knew
you what she wrote on them ? "
D 2

'a did not know."

They gave them into his hands, and he
read Evangeline's last words to the
islanders, and, as he read, his forced calmness
forsook him. In a voice shaken by
emotion, he said, —

She accused herself falsely. It was
the only false action of her life. Into sin
lies at her door. Be sure of that. I speak
with certainty of knowledge, and shall not,
dare not say more. There is a secret
between me and her which may not be
divulged. My presence here to-day is due
to my resolve to rid myself of all worldly
possessions, so that I may prepare my soul
to meet its Maker — to meet Evangeline's
soul in the world beyond. I do not ask
you to waste a gentle thought upon me :
you can render me but one service — the
service of forgetfulness. Blot me out
from your memories from this day henceforth,
for no man or woman in the isle
shall ever again hear my voice — shall ever
again stand face to face with me in
friendly intercourse. Farewell for ever ! "

With head sunk upon his breast, as
though ashamed to meet the sunlight that
shone upon the land, he descended the

platform and moved slowly away. They
gave him ample room, and no man
attempted to remonstrate with him or to
persuade him to remain. Some terrible
import, conveyed more by his manner
than his words, caused them to shrink
from him as from one accurst. Yet, in
after times, a few, more tender than the
rest, reproached themselves for not giving
him one parting compassionate word or
look.

He went from among them, and during
the following few weeks built himself a hutin
the most savage and inaccessible part of
the range leading to the basin of snow. If,
before he took up his residence there, that
dangerous mount was avoided, it became
now shunned by all, for in some mysterious
Away a suspicion of the truth stole into
the minds of the islanders, which, growing
stronger and stronger as they put together
the links of circumstantial evidence, gradually
settled into the belief that the wretch
who lived upon that evil spot was a murderer,
and had shed his brother's blood.
With the weight of this conviction upon
them, they were uncertain what course to
pursue. Some talked of dragging him

from his hut, and accusing him of the
crime ; and some, more violent, were for
putting him to death without trial.
These wild impulses were overruled by
the elders of the isle.

Justice must not be outraged," they
said. " What proofs have we ? and without
proof, how can we condemn? ''

They deliberated gravely, and called in
the priest to their aid.

To punish upon suspicion'* he said,
would be to add crime to crime. Only
out of his own lips can he be proved guilty.
He has sworn a solemn oath never again to
speak word to mortal man, and you canas
easily compel the mountain to speak as
compel him to break his vow. Leave him
to God. Is he not already suffering the
tortures of a lost soul ? God be merciful
to him, a sinner ! "

So he was left in peace, to live his
wretched, desolate life.

His hut being built, he set to work
upon the task he had determined to perform.
Cutting down a huge pine-tree, he
dragged it, inch by inch, to a clearing in
front of his dwelling. The labour was herculean,
and no man but one possessed of

enormous pHysical strength and amazing
inward sustaining power could have accomplished
it. He lopped off the branches,
and cleared the tree of all excrescences,
and when the huge plain trunk was before
him, he began to fashion it into the image
of the Saviour stretched upon the Cross.
The base of the tree, which was of astonishing
girth, formed the apex of the design,
and admitted of the carving of the outstretched
arms. In storm and sunshine,
by night and day, the man pursued his
work. He lived upon roots and water, and
passed through sickness and fever without
abating one jot of his energy, in which,
could it have been witnessed, would have
been discerned the consuming strength of
despair and remorse concentrated upon
one supreme effort. The seasons changed ;
the leaves grew green and withered, and
again enjoyed their lives of youth and
beauty, and the man never ceased from
his labour. Year after year passed, and
still the man was employed upon the task.
His form could be dimly seen by the
islanders in the plains and valleys, and
after a time he was looked upon as something
more than mortal. l!^o man ventured

near, him, but he dwelt in the minds
of all. Women spoke of him with hushed
voices, and children, looking np to the
heights upon which he worked, quickly
shut their eyes as though a blight would
have fallen on them had they continued to
gaze upon the strange shadow which never
for a moment seemed to rest from its
labour. At length, after a decade of years
had passed, the priest of the Silver Isle
called the old men around him, and
announced his intention of visiting the
sinner. His story was still fresh in the
minds of the white-haired men, and although
not one of them, with the exception
of the priest, would have touched the
sinner's hand in friendship, time had
weakened their resentment against him.

Terrible was his crime," said the
priest, " terrible has been his self-inflicted
punishment. It will be a work of mercy
to pour oil upon his wounds."

They offered to accompany him, but he
said he would go alone ; it would be best.
So, with their sanction, he departed, and
when he returned, told them in a voice
broken by emotion the story of his
mission.

*' When he saw me walking up the
Tnoiintain's side towards him, he stood
and watched me. I am old, and my limbs
are feeble, but he made no effort to assist
me ; he simply waited to learn my errand.
I was supported by God, or I should
never have reached his hut. So rugged is
the road, and so beset with difficulty and
danger, that I often had to creep upon my
hands and knees for an hour or more, and
to walk long distances on narrow precipitous
paths where a slip of the foot would
be fatal. I arrived at the end of my
journey on the noon of the second day,
and stood face to face with the man whose
word for many years was law in our isle.
Ah, my friends ! you would not recognize
him, so changed is he. You will recall
him as he was in the pride of his youth, a
tall and handsome man, lithe and erect,
with stalwart limbs, and eyes bright as an
eagle's. All this strength and beauty
have vanished, as though they had never
been. His body is but skin and bone, his
hair is white, his hands are long and lean,
his face is pitifully haggard, he is wasted
almost to a shadow. Remembering what
he was, remembering that I had nursed

him on my knee when he was an innocent
child, mj heart overflowed into my eyes
as I gazed upon the wreck of grandeur
and nobility. I held out my hand to him ;
he kept his arms folded on his breast. 1
addressed him in words of kindness ; he
replied not a word.

' If,' I said, ' your vow of silence
weighs upon you, and prevents you from
answering me, I absolve you from it. In
God's name, I absolve you. Through me,
His priest. He bids you speak. He bids
you pray.'

'' I saw that he knew the meaning of
my words. It would not have been
strange had he, living for so long a time
his terrible life of loneliness, lost all
understanding of our language. But he
had not ; he followed my words, but he
made no response to them. I knelt and
prayed. I prayed for him, a sinner ; in
his name I made to God a confession of
his crime ; for him and for myself I
humbled myself before the Divine Throne,
and supplicated for mercy and forgiveness.
He did not, would not, kneel beside me ;
he stood and listened in silence. For an
hour I prayed and talked ; and the man

might have been made of stone, so unmoved
did lie appear. Faint with my
exertions, I asked if he would permit me
to enter his hut, and seek for food. He
said neither yea nor nay. I entered his
hut. Dear friends, my heart bled as 1
looked around. The walls of the hut are
bare, the ground is stony, and there is no
place but the earth to rest the weary
limbs. During all these years, the man
has lived in that drear habitation, with
roots for his food, with stones for his bed,
without complaining. What mortal can
do to expiate his sin, this man has done.
Surely he is forgiven ! Upon the ground
inside the hut I found some roots ; and
these were the only food his dwelling
contained. I brought them out, and ate
them in his presence, and taking a drinking
cup roughly carved from wood, filled
it with water from a rivulet close by, and
drank. I thought it would soften him to
see me partake with a willing heart of his
hospitality. I did more. I took from
my wallet some bread, and breaking it in
two, I ate one piece, and offered him the
other. He did not accept it, and I laid it
within the door of his hut. So engrossed

was I in my endeavour to reach the heart
of the suffering sinner that up to this time
my eyes had not beheld the marvellous
work upon which he has been engaged
from the time he left us, and when I
saw it I contemplated it with wonder.
From a pine-tree, measuring in its present
form not less than forty feet, he has
fashioned the image of Our Saviour
stretched upon the Cross, and has produced
a work so beautiful and pathetic as must
melt the heart of all who are permitted to
gaze upon the sacred symbol. Aye, were
his sin ever greater than it is, you would
cry, looking upon this work of expiation,
God be merciful to him, a sinner ! ' The
Crown of Thorns, the Blood, the depiction
of the Agony, are terrible and most exquisite
in their truth to life and nature.
Never in my life have I beheld so miraculous
a conception, and I did not doubt
that he intended to set it up in some suitable
place, as a lasting memorial of his
repentance. I addressed him again.

' When I last spoke to you,' I said, ' I
offered to bless you, and you refused. At
that moment I did not understand why
you refused to accept the blessing of a

minister of God ; afterwards, it was clear
to my mind. You deemed yourself not
worthy. My son, let me bless you now 1 '

'' I spoke in vain. Human effort was
powerless to sap the fortress of silence in
which his soul was entrenched. If in the
depths of his nature he was stirred by my
appeal, he showed no sign of it. I prepared
in sorrow to depart, and as I turned to go
I said, —

' Fain would I leave some ray of light
behind me. Not alone out of my own
sense of duty did I come here to-day.
The wish has long been in my mind, and
before I put it into execution I called
around me the chief men of the isle, old
men who knew and loved you in the past.
They urged me to see you, and offered to
accompany me, but I thought it best to
come unattended. It would be false if I
were to tell you that you hold the place in
their minds you held in the days gone by ;
that can never be again. But in some
undefinable wayyou live still in their hearts.
You are to them as a son might be to a
parent whom he has deeply wronged and
sinned against but to whom he is bound
by ties of blood and early affection. On

the Sabbath day, in the old church yonder
where you have so often knelt, we shall
pray for you. Think of it, and kneel with
us when the time for prayer arrives. We
shall be together in spirit, and you may be
grateful to know that you are not entirely
shut out from the sympathies of men.'

While I spoke these last words, I saw
a moisture dim his eyes. He could not
control the heaving of his breast, but his
limbs obeyed his iron will. It gladdened
me to perceive that the thought that those
by whom he was once honoured did not
hold his memory in complete abhorrence
conveyed comfort to the wretched man.
He uttered no word. In silence he watched
my departure, and did not move while I
was in sight. Dear friends, never shall I
forget the misery of this man. Self-condemned,
he lives his life of suffering, and
no punishment his fellow-man could inflict
could exceed that which he has inflicted
upon himself. He is but the shadow of
what he was, but his inward strength must
be enormous. It cannot last. When his
work is finished, when the marvellous figure
he has fashioned is set up as a supplication
for mercy at the Divine Throne, I foresee

that lie will die. The vital power is only
sustained by the strongest effort of an indomitable
will. It will hold out until his
task be done, and then the repentant sinner
will yield up his soul to its Creator. On
every Sabbath day we will pray for him and
with him, for assuredly, although he made
no response to my appeals, his heart will
soften when he is once more alone with
conscience and with God ! "

From that time forth the sinner was held
in pitying remembrance by the islanders,
and it grew to be a kind of belief with them
that the spirits of his brother and Evangeline
were hovering over him through the
weary hours, awaiting the time when he
should rejoin them in the better world, to
greet him with the words, " Brother, thou
art forgiven ! "

The priest had prophesied truly. The
sinner's heart had been touched and
softened by the merciful visit, and when
the priest was out of sight the man cast
himself upon the earth, and bedewed the
bread upon his threshold with a blinding
passion of tears. And when the Sabbath
day arrived he knelt upon the stony ground,
and joined his prayers with those of the

islanders, and thus became sympathetically
connected with his kind. No farther efforts
were made to intrude upon him, and the
sinner continued his work until at length
the first portion of his task was completed,
and he looked down upon the marvellously
carved figure of Christ upon the Cross.
What remained for him to do was most
dangerous, and seemed impossible of accomplishment
; but he had resolved within
himself, and only death could stop him.

From the summit of the snow mountain,
piercing its bosom, uprose a massive rock,
which from the depths looked like a needle
tapering to a point. But in fact its
upper surface was flat, and not less than
fifty feet in circumference. A foothold
could be maintained upon the soft mass of
snow which lay upon the thick and treacherous
ice beneath, and both snow and ice
would have to be cleared away before the
surface of the rock could be laid bare.
Herculean was the design, yet here it was
that the sinner had resolved to rear the
gigantic figure. This was the altar he had
chosen upon which he would fix his symbol
to the glory of God.

To drag his carved tree to the spot

occupied him full a year. Inch by inch it
was moved, uninjured, hip the heights, over
the chasms, along the precipices. He was
as tenderly careful of it as he could have
been had it been living flesh and blood he
was conveying to a destined goal. When
the islanders became conscious of his
purpose, they looked upon it as the scheme
of a madman.

It cannot be done," they said. " It is
not in the power of mortal man."

He will do it," said the priest of the
Silver Isle.

It appeared as if the man were anxious
to conceal his purpose from the knowledge
of the islanders until it was achieved ; or
perhaps, knowing that at certain points
he would be in full view of the inhabitants,
he was desirous to avoid their continuous
personal scrutiny. By whatever motive
he was prompted, he now worked only in
the night, and rested during the day.
Thus a new and weird interest was added
to the task, for when in the morning it
was observed that a dangerous chasm had
been safely crossed, or some great peril
had been escaped, many believed that the
man had been assisted by supernatural

VOL. I. E

power. Not all were mercifully inclined
towards him; there were some whose
hearts were still stern and relentless, and
who, regarding the work as devoid of
holiness, entertained the idea that it was
being forwarded by the aid of evil spirits.
As the weeks and the months passed by,
the wonder of the islanders who watched
the herculean labour, performed unaided
by one human being, grew stronger and
deeper. Without regard to season or
weather, the man worked patiently on,
and with each setting of the sun the
inhabitants of the Silver Isle, old and
young, would gather in clusters over the
plains and valleys, to watch his progress.
Whatever their own immediate troubles
and joys, in the midst of their sorrow and
gladness, this man was not entirely absent
from their minds. He was but a speck
upon the mountain side, an insignificant
atom amid Nature's terrible and beautiful
creations, but there was a pathos in his
slow and weary toil that touched the hearts
of those who were tenderly inclined. It
grew to be a custom to pray inwardly for
him, that his offering might be successfully
raised, and his sin wiped out. Their

imaginations did not deceive their when
they cried that the saw blood upon his
hands and feet, for not a day passed that
his flesh was not torn by the sharp rocks.
Once he fell near the edge of a precipice,
and his symbol upon him, and it was not
until hours after the rising of the sun
that he succeeded in extricating himself.
Again and again the islanders expected
that he would be hurled into an abyss,
thousands and thousands of feet down, to
lie there till the Archangel sounded his
trumpet on the Judgment Day. Mothers,
waking up in the night, would see in the
darkness the phantom of this man toiling,
with ropes about his shoulders ; would see
a white and pitiful face and marks of
bleeding feet upon the rocks, and would
murmur, as they pressed their babes to
their bosoms, " God pity and pardon him,
and keep my child from crime ! "

So the work went on until the sacred
figure rested upon the highest surface of
the fatal mount. Then the flat table of
the rock had to be cleared of ice and snow,
and a foundation dug in it for the symbol
to rest in. With unwearying patience this
was done, and by slowly building beneath
E 2

the upper part of the symbol a pile of
stones, it was raised into such a position
that by a great effort it could be slipped
into the rocky bed prepared for it, and
there fixed for ever as a sign.

On a Saturday night in September, when
the lovely autumn colours were coming
into the leaves, all was ready for the final
effort. It had become known that the
sinner had nearly completed his self-allotted
task, and that the Sabbath sun
would shine upon his appeal to the Divine
Heart for mercy and forgiveness. The
night was intensely dark ; but the excitement
in the Silver Isle was so great that
none who were in health would retire to
rest. The islanders assembled on a plain
from which, on sunny days and moonlight
nights, a clear view of the snow-clad peak
could be obtained, and prepared to wait
for the rising of the sun. Those among-them
who remembered the day on which
their beloved Evangeline stood in the
church waiting for her bridegroom, recalled
the circumstances of that fatal time,
and saw with their mind's eye the beautiful
girl arrayed in the bridal dress which
proved her shroud. They spoke in whispers

; they moved softly about, and when
they smiled, their smiles were sad ; gentle
thoughts only reigned in their minds.
Slowly the minutes passed until midnight
came ; women wept and strong men trembled.
The silences were broken by a
gasp, or by a cry of pity springing from
the depths of an overwrought soul, or by
the involuntary utterance of a short and
pitiful prayer. A dread mysterious influence
was at work in the solemn thraldom
of that awful night. It stirred the hair of
men and women ; it impressed them with
their littleness, their helplessness, their
insignificance ; it made them humble and
afraid. They stretched out their hands,
and drew closer to each other, husband to
wife, brother to sister, children to their
mothers. The derived comfort from
personal contact ; it was in some sense a
protection against the evil spirits which
they believed were contending with the
angels for the soul of the sinner. Family
ties that had been weakened in affection
became suddenly strong again; and had
two enemies stood side by side, an uncontrollable
instinct would have caused them
to clasp hands in friendship. Darker and

darker grew the night. Shadows glided
up and down the mountain sides, and
floated upwards from the depths, pregnant
with mysterious meaning. Pivot a sound,
not a breath, not a movement escaped the
islanders that was not in sympathy with
the lonely sinner labouring on the snow-clad
peak. Straining their eyes thitherward,
their fevered fancies created phantasmagoria
which they believed to be real.
Black clouds upon the lofty rock were
thought to represent the forms of the
sinner and his symbol. Now he was
putting the finishing touches to his work
of expiation ; now he was kneeling, with
his head bowed down in prayer ; now he
was looking upward with tear-stained face,
and his arms raised in supplication to
heaven. The islanders paused not to consider
that, with a bright light shining on
the snowy heights, he would have appeared
even to the strongest sight as a mere speck
upon the horizon, whose movements it
would have been scarcely possible to distinguish.
All things were possible on such
a night. It was a time for miracles.

Hark ! " said one. " Did you not hear
aery?"

Many were ready to aver that a cry
from the mountain top had floated downward
to the plain. But had such a cry
been uttered, it was incredible it could
have reached their ears. Reason would
not have convinced them. They were the
slaves of imagination, —

Among them was the priest who had
visited the sinner. Ever and anon his
voice was heard in exhortation, —

'' Terrible was his sin. Terrible is his
expiation. Let the memory of the awful
deed remain for ever in this dear island
home as a sign, as a warning. If temptation
assail thee, drive it forth ! This sinner
has done all that mortal man could do ;
his repentance is sincere; he has washed
his sin with tears of blood. His bloody
footsteps mark the path which leads to the
holy work he has performed. Christ be
merciful to him ! "

And all the congregation murmured, —

Christ be merciful to him — and to mea
sinner ! "

The snow mountain lay in the eye of
the east, and in the early morning the sun
was wont to bathe the white expanse with
rosy light. So beautiful in this aspect did

it look that it seemed to belong to another
and more lovely world. As the night progressed,
the watchers grew more excited
and eager.

"Is it not time for the sun to rise'*
some asked.

Not till another hour has passed,"
replied the more patient ones.

Shortly after these words were spoken,
muttering of a storm were heard, and it
soon burst over the land. No rain fell
upon the plains and valleys, but the lightning
played over the mountain, and the
thunder rolled down its rugged sides.
Fiercer and fiercer grew the storm until
it attained the most terrible proportions.
It shook the earth to its foundations ; in
the memory of living man dwelt not so
fearful an experience. But terrible as it
was, it did not divert the thoughts of the
islanders from the sinner who had drawn
them together. The storm was for him ;
he was there upon the mountain top, he
and his sin, battling with it. God was
speaking to him in fire and thunder, and
demons and angels were fighting for his
soul. Which would conquer? As they
gazed upwards at the gloomy heights, a
vivid flash of lightning gashed the dark

bosom of the sky ; the thunder rolled more
fiercely ; the heavens appeared to open ;
and a straight line of fire, suddenly
descending from the very heart of the
unseen world, stabbed with fatal light the
man and his work of repentance, which in
that awful moment were hurled into the
abyss yawning beneath them.

A cry of horror rose from the throats
of the islanders, and in the midst of the
dense darkness that followed no man
dared to speak, so appalling was the
impression produced by the event. The
storm abated, and died away in sobs ; and
presently a faint light dawned in the sky.
The light grew stronger, clearer. A hazy,
golden mist rolled over the snow mountain,
and when its peaks were tipped with
the fire of the rising sun, the islanders saw
no sign of the sinner and his symbol. God
had rejected his work, and had declared
that not in this world should the sinner be
allowed to work out the full measure of
his punishment !

From that day forth, the mountain was
looked upon as accurst, and all men
avoided it !

THE END OF THE Prologue.

THE STORY.

CHAPTER I.

Mauvais TAKES Refuse IN THE SILVER ISLE.

The progress of time had no softening
effect upon the evil reputation of the
accursed mount. For more than a hundred
years no human sound had proceeded
from the deserted heights; shadowless
forms, spirits wrapt in a deadly mantle of
silence, held dominion there. The fair
white snow-land gleamed as beautifully
now in the eye of the sun as it had done
thousands of years ago, and it would have
been difficult for a stranger to believe that
a tragedy in which God's judgment had
been so fearfully demonstrated could
ever have occurred upon its stainless
bosom. But the story of the crime and its
punishment formed the blackest page in
the history of the Silver Isle, and the
peaceful aspect of the mount did not lessen
the abhorrence in which it was held by the

islanders. Even now, although six generations
of men liacl passed away since the
awful night upon wliicli the destruction of
the sinner and his symbol was accomplished,
only one man's shadow fell upon
the rugged paths leading to the basin of
eternal snow.

The man was Ran the Deformed.

In the year 1830 of the present century
an unusual circumstance occurred in the
Silver Isle. The white sails of a schooner
were seen within a few miles of the shore.
A visit from the outer world was an event
so rare that the islanders watched with
deep interest the movements of the schooner.
Children ran to the hillocks, and gazed
with delight upon the snowy wings of the
sea-bird; women also experienced a feeling
of pleasure in observing the graceful
dip and rise of the vessel. Their pleasure
was not shared by the older residents of
the isle, who silently asked each other
whether the schooner came as friend or
foe. The question was soon answered.
The schooner anchored in the bay ; in
the evening a boat rowed towards the
shore, and four sailors and a landsman
leaped upon the beach. Two chests were

in the boat, and these were brought toland,
and placed on the beach, high up, out
of reach of the tide. This done in silence,
the sailors, obeying the instructions of the
landsman, returned to the boat, and rested
on their oars. The man who remained was
roughly attired, and for a moment or two
he stood silently regarding a group of
islanders who were watching his proceedings.
Presently he approached them and
addressed them in courteous tones, —

I am flying for my life," he said. '^ I
come to you for shelter and protection."

His demeanour was so unaffectedly
composed as to appear to some to afford a
contradiction to the serious import of his
words ; but it was evident to the more
experienced that he was in earnest.

In front of the group stood one of the
magistrates of the isle, known as Father
Sebastian.

'* This is not a sanctuary," said Father
Sebastian ; " it is a land whose inhabitants
desire to live in peace with all men. If
you are flying for your life, you have committed
crime."

'' Not so," rejoined the stranger in a
light tone ; and it was apparent from his

speech and bearing that lie was a gentleman,
despite his common dress ; ^' unless
it be a crime to have opinions. It is one
of the misfortunes of our family. I have
played a part in a too turbulent civilization
; having opinions, I expressed them ;
having the honour of an ancient name to
uphold, I upheld it. I simply happen to
belong to the party that is out of power,
and, being down instead of up, I am
naturally disgusted with the world until
my turn come again. I seek the security
that is to be found in forge tunes s ; in
this I follow the footsteps of my grandfather,
who fifty years ago, under precisely
similar circumstances, sought refuge here
and obtained it. He did not abuse your
hospitality. Our name is Mauvais."

"Your name is known," said Father
Sebastian. *' I am old enough to have a
dim remembrance of your grandfather,
who, after he left this isle, sent us remembrances
which we still possess."

Our family were ever grateful," said
Mauvais with a bow. " In my boyhood I
heard my grandfather speak in terms of
admiration of your ways and mode of life ;
therefore," he added, with a touch of

pleasant sophistry, '' your virtues are to
blame for my intrusion. These papers
will prove that I am the person I represent
myself to be." He paused to allow Father
Sebastian to examine the papers, and then
said, '' I ask permission to remain here till
I can return to my native land."

He held out his hand, which Father
Sebastian accepted, and thus Mauvais was
made free of the isle.

Thereafter, from time to time, a brig
came to the isle, bringing Mauvais letters
and newspapers which he read with eagerness,
and bringing also implements and
tools of use to the islanders, which
Mauvais employed in the way of barter
and exchange. By these means he became
the owner of land, and he was soon looked
upon by the islanders as one of themselves.
He had already told them that he possessed
opinions ; in addition, he possessed
ideas, and being of an energetic, restless
nature, he strove to make them popular.
In this he was unsuccessful. The islanders
would have none of his crotchets. The
Silver Isle was ruled by wise men, who,
born in simplicity, and living happily and
contentedly in that state were anxious

to avoid disturbing elements. Especially
were they anxious that the minds of their
young men should not be agitated by wild
theories. But Mauvais was by nature
dogmatic and masterful, and it needed a
strong remonstrance before he could be
made to relinquish the idea of making their
wills the slaves of his.

'' Let be, Mauvais, let be," said Father
Sebastian. " We are the best judges of
whether we need this or that. Our forefathers
left us an inheritance of contentment,
which we in our turn desire to leave
to our children. "We are in harmony with
each other, and we account indolence a
vice. Brought up in virtue and industry,
our young men and women live their lives
in peace, and worship God. What changes
have come upon our isle have come
naturally, and we would not have it
otherwise. Hothouses are not to our
taste. Friend Mauvais, keep your newfangled
notions to yourself, and do not
strive to turn us from our ways. It is no
reproach to us if we do not move as quickly
as the country in which you have lived.
Setting our experiences against yours, the
advantage, I take it, is on our side. If

things are well with men, it is a misfortune
if they are tempted to believe that they are
sent into the world to set every wrong
thing right. Each to do his best in
the small circle in which he moves —
that is both philosophy and religion : and
it is our aim. We are not savages, as you
see ; we have a regard for cleanliness and
godliness ; we have enough for our spiritual
and temporal needs; and, friend
Mauvais, if you have not already learned
it, you are old enough to learn it now —
enough is enough."

Mauvais shrugged his shoulders. " Make
a troglodyte of me," he said with a slight
sneer, " or teach me to crawl like the
crab."

But he had the grace to recognize that
it would be a breach of hospitality to continue
his endeavours to force his opinions
upon the islanders. Condemned by circumstances
to remain among them, he
could not pass his days in idleness. Fora
time he shut himself up with his books
and newspapers, but they were not sufficient
to satisfy his active temperament.
He strove to lighten the weary hours by
writing something in the form of memoirs.

but it was not long before tie flung away
the pen. Then the beauty of the isle
drew him forth, and he wandered over
its length and breadth. '* Searching for
fairies," he said sportively. He found
neither fairy nor malignant spirit, nor did
he chance upon an Aladdin's cave, although
the isle was prolific in rare surprises. But
he made a substantial discovery. In a
wild gulch in an uninhabited part of the isle
he found traces of silver ore. The land
round about was waste land, and he purchased
it of the commonwealth, paying
for it in ploughs and harrows of improved
design. He prosecuted his search, and
hired men to work for him in the gulch
during the winter season. They unearthed
a rich mine, and in the spring
Mauvais and his workmen returned to
the centre of population, bringing with
them some sacks of silver ore. He
exhibited the treasure exultantly to the
islanders, and told them it was freislebenite,
and contained antimony, lead, sulphur,
and silver. They smiled at his enthusiasm,
and said they preferred golden
grain. The ore, however, was melted, and
a large yield of silver was obtained. It

VOL. I. F

was of little value to Mauvais or to any one
else on the isle ; but Mauvais continued
to work the mine intermittently, chiefly for
the purpose of employing his time. It
could scarcely have been for gain, for he
was otherwise rich in his own right in the
country to which he was not free to
return.

But the release came at last, and after
the lapse of a dozen years he received the
welcome news that he might return in
"safety to his native land. His face brightened
with joy, and yet, as he drew a deep
breath, and extended his arms to embrace
the spirit of liberty, he felt a pang of regret.
Yesterday the isle had been a prison ; today
it was fair and sweet in his eyes.
Yesterday it was a cage, to-day it was a
garden. How bright were the clouds;
how fragrant the air ; how beneficent the
earth ! Never in his dreams had he
imagined a spot upon earth so calm, so
peaceful, so free from care ! In the pretty
house he had built for himself in the Silver
Isle, he received from an old-time friend
all the particulars of the fortunate change
in affairs which had restored him to his
position in the world. It seemed as if he

would never be done with his questions, so
eager was he to hear all that had passed
in his absence. He inquired with keen
interest after such and such men whom
he had known, and he learned that some
were dead, some disgraced, some at the
top of the ladder, some crawling in the
gutters.

'' Ah, well," said he, '' 'tis battledore
and shuttlecock ; I'll play the battledore
for the future, be sure of that."

After women also he inquired, and
learnt who led and who followed, who
were sought after, who laughed at, and
what was the character of the imperious
beauty who reigned in the world of fashion.
The most popular idol was one whom he
had nursed on his knee before the tide of
his fortunes had changed for the worse ;
she was a child at that time — docile, meek,
obedient — now she was a woman, haughty,
proud, capricious. She, a patrician, and
another, who had risen from vile depths,
ruled the world of fashion between them.
A smile rested upon Mauvais's handsome
lips as he listened and dreamt of future
conquests. While the conversation was
proceeding he unlocked a chest, and
F 2

producing therefrom a suit of the finest
clothes, decked himself out as became
his rank and station. With the
delight of a child he contemplated the
reflection of his fine feathers in the
mirror.

I am going to live once more," he
thought, and as he sprinkled a delicate
perfume over his clothes, he made a vow
to drink the cup of pleasure to the last
drop. Brave and vain ; clear-sighted and
dogmatic ; nice in small points of honour,
and unscrupulous in his observance of
moral obligations ; capable of reasoning
truthfully upon the passing circumstance,
and apt at the same time to applaud himself
extravagantly for his critical insight ;
now haughty and now pleasantly familiar;
generous in money matters ; ready to
laugh at questions of morality where the
gratification of his desires was concerned,
but most jealous in that respect towards
those who were allied to him — this was
Mauvais, who had one law for himself and
another for his neighbour.

When, his toilet being completed, he
stepped from his house and presented
himself to the islanders, they saw a gentleman

of rank, attired in silk and lace, with
a sword hanging at his side. It was a
metamorphosis. The man was there, but
not the man with whom they had been
familiar. A dainty handkerchief was in
his hand, which he waved lightly in the
air; a jewelled snuff-box, too, although he
disliked snuff. Fortunate, therefore, that
the box was empty. The life he had led
on the isle had so greatly benefited him
that he looked younger than he had done
on the day, a dozen years ago, he first
appeared among them. The surprise his
appearance excited pleased him, and he
inclined his head this way and that, as
though he were a king receiving the congratulations
of his subjects ; and as he
bowed with a superb and affable air, he
daintily regaled his nose with pinches of
nothing from his jewelled snuff-box. The
islanders, somewhat awed by his grand
manner, presented him with small tokens
of affection, and expressed their regret at
his departure.

Regret," said Father Sebastian gravely,
which I hope is mutual. Your sojourn
here has done you no harm."

I am younger at heart," responded

Mauvais gaily, "and older in wisdom.
You have taught me much worth learning,
and I fear you must sometimes have considered
me ungrateful. Yes ; I feel that I
have been happy. This isle contains the
true elixir of life, and those qualities which
best sweeten it, gentleness and content,
grow like sweet roses in the summer air.
You might ask, ' Why fly from us, then ? '
It would ill become me were I to say that
a man is not an ox, whose only ambition
it is to eat succulent grass and breathe
fresh air. More graceful to say that there
are also roses in my own land whose
perfume I long to inhale, flowers which
seem, although they may not be, as bright.
Do not think unkindly of me. Our ambitions,
our hopes, our desires, are widely
apart. That the happier life is yours I do
not dispute, but no man can resist his star,
and mine shines yonder, across the sea,
where already I see the lights and hear
the music of familiar voices. Adieu, my
friends. What property I have in this
isle is in your charge until I, or some
other authorized by me, appears to claim
it. I go to take up the broken thread
of life, and it will be pleasant to me to

feel that I am still linked to the land
which has sheltered me for so many
years."

He spoke with emotion which, for the
moment, was sincere. The enforced repose
he had enjoyed filled him now with gratitude,
in which was curiously mingled a
gentle glow of self-satisfaction. '' Strange
inconsistency of human nature," he muttered,
" that we can only enjoy the past in
the present ! " So, with goodwill on both
sides, he and his island friends bade farewell.


In papers that were found after his
departure the disposition of his property
was clearly set forth. He requested the
islanders to make what use they pleased of
his house, which was one of the largest
and prettiest in the isle, and asked whoever
occupied it to keep the grounds and
gardens around it in good order. As he
had told them, all his property was to be
considered theirs, with but one reservation,
which referred to the silver-mine in the
gulch. In the event of its being worked,
he desired that his proprietary rights
should be recognized by a royalty of one-tenth
portion of the silver it produced,

which was to be stored until it was
claimed by himself or bis heirs. The
islanders accepted the trust, and faithfully
observed the conditions attached
to it.

CHAPTER II.

TO THE SILVER ISLE COMES AN EVANGELINE
WHOSE LIPS AEE MUTE.

From the period of Mauvais's departure,
the isle was visited, about once every year,
by a brig, of which it was understood that
Mauvais was the owner. The captain
brought with him pretty oddments from
the troublous world whose thirsts and
fevers had not yet touched the lovely
land in which the spirit of peace reigned
supreme ; and when he found that these
ornaments were not in favour, he brought
agricultural implements and exchanged
them for skins and horns of cattle. But
his ambition was not to be bounded by
these articles of barter and exchange.

You have," he said to the islanders,
what is more valuable to me than horn
and hides."

What is that ? " they asked.

Silver."

This opened their eyes, and they availed
themselves of Man vain' s permission to
work the mine, and used the treasure for
the common good, with sense and wisdom,
never failing to set aside a just tenth for
Mauvais or his heirs. The captain gained
his end, but it vexed him to the soul that
he could not tempt the people to trade for
gewgaws, in which lay larger profits for
himself.

Casting about for legitimate roads to
trade, the captain heard the story of Evangeline
and the two brothers, and he
straightway suggested that it would be a
rare achievement to beautify the great
market-place of the Silver Isle with a
marble statue of the girl, the memory of
whom had not faded from the minds of the
inhabitants.

'' See you now," said the captain, 'for
a thousand ounces of silver I will bring:
you an image which shall be the wonder of
the isle — a life-size image of Evangeline, in
pure white marble. For another two hundred
ounces I will bring you a pedestal of
veined stone, upon which it shall stand.
Give me a picture of the maid, and make

her as fair and beautiful as you please. I
will stake my life your picture shall not
outrival in grace my statue of stone. It
shall do all but speak."

They fell in gladly with the captain's
offer, the bargain was made, and their
most skilful artist drew a picture of Evangeline,
taking for his model the fairest
maid in the isle. He could not improve
upon her, for flesh and blood and bone
were never seen in more graceful conjunction
than in the Silver Isle. There were
women there as beautiful as Venus, and
men as graceful as Apollo. The strange
part of it was that, although the women
knew they were fair, not all their heads
were turned by the knowledge.

I would not have you believe they were
all saints. There were sinners among
them, as you shall find.

The captain took away the picture, and
upon his next visit brought with him as
beautiful a statue in pure white marble as
genius in its first spiritual strength could
produce. The girl was represented in her
happiest mood. Her limbs were perfectly
moulded, her feet were bare, her head was
slightly inclined forward. A smile was on

her lips, her right hand was raised, and
her forefinger crooked towards her ear, as
if in the act of listening. That the face
was not a reproduction of the picture
drawn by the island artist was of small
account ; it was most perfect in its beauty.
The sculptor had worked with the soul of
an artist.

The satisfaction of the islanders was
expressed in words and looks of admiration,
and the captain brought to bear
the cunning of the world's ways, not
entirely discarding truth in his scheming
words.

The artist who fashioned this figure,"
he said, " is a young man who will
become famous in the world — one who
loves his art better than money. That
should not be taken advantage of — it is a
scurvy trick to pay a man half value for
his labour. Had you seen this young
sculptor with the figure growing beneath
his chisel, you would have been amazed
at his enthusiasm. He worked day
and night, like a man in a fever of
love, as though he expected when it
was finished to see it burst into life, throw
its arms round his neck, and press its

warm lips of flesh and blood to his.
It almost broke his heart to part with it.
I speak the truth when I say that it
occupied him more than double the time
he expected. It was a bad bargain for
him when I fixed the price at a thousand
ounces."

It is a noble work," said the purchasers
: 'ewe will pay him what you
consider just."

By which piece of roguery the captain
profited to the tune of three hundred
ounces of silver.

The statue was set up in the marketplace,
and the silver weighed out and paid,
and all parties were well content. Thus
matters went on for a few years, and then
the schooner unexpectedly made its appearance,
and brought with it another kind of
cargo than that to which the islanders
were accustomed.

It was early autumn, and the men and
women were in the fields, singing over
their work. The air was sweet with the
fragrance of new-mown hay.

Some children playing on the beach
stopped in the midst of their play, and
drew nearer to the edge of the waves to

watch the progress of a boat which was
approaching the shore. In it were two
sailors, rowing, and a young man who
leant back, and played with the water,
letting it run lazily through his fingers.
A spell of indolence was upon him, for he
stepped languidly from the boat, and
coming among the children, did not speak
for a little while. The children, full of
curiosity, and not afraid, took note in their
quiet wondering way of the rings the
young man wore upon his fingers, of the
gold chain which hung across his waistcoat,
of the diamond pin in his scarf, of
the jewelled cane which he did not seem
to have the strength to twirl between his
fingers.

"Children," he said presently, "is this
Lotus Land?"

Not understanding the question, they
did not answer him, and he continued in
his soft melodious voice, —

I can imagine a harder lot than to be
condemned to live within this prison of
sweetness. A wood-fairy might take pity
on a mortal, and offer him the shelter of
her bower. Children, if you are not sea-born
and understand the language I speak,

tell me if I laye not lost my way across
the sea. This is the Silver Isle ? Bright
eyes and intelligent nods are a sufficient
answer. There are a few grown-up persons
here, I suppose. The isle is not peopled
by children only, who never grow bigger
or older ? You, for instance, my little
maid, have a father and mother ? "

'' Oh, yes," replied the child, " and
father is in the fields working''

Take me to him."

She slipped her hand in his, and he
looked down, amused, upon her pretty
face, and submitted to be led to the fields
where a number of the islanders were at
work. The pleasant aspect of the scene
impressed him deeply, the people were so
different from the hinds who did such
work in his own country.

Arcadia ! " he murmured.

'* Here is father," said the girl, as a tall
sunburnt man moved towards the stranger.

I have landed from the schooner,"
said the new-comer, " and have brought a
charge which I am to deliver to one Father
Sebastian, if he be alive."

*' Father Sebastian is alive," said the
islander. " From whom come you ? "

From Mauvais."

'* That is sufficient ; rest here awhile,
and we will send for Father Sebastian.
Our children shall bring you some fruit."

The new-comer threw himself upon the
tumbled hay, and took note dreamily of
the happy life by which he was surrounded.

CHAPTER III.

TO THE SILVER ISLE COMES A NEW Evangeline
WHOSE LIPS ARE ANIMATE.

A SOFT languor stole over his senses. He
was in the state between sleeping and
waking, when one is not sure whether he
is in a living world or in a world of
shadows. At such a time what is most
extravagant is accepted as most probable ;
there is nothing to wonder at in the
strangest contradictions. Reason sleeps ;
imagination reigns in its most fantastic
forms. If the enchanted mortal lies in a
darkened room, where palpable objects are
shut from his sight, his mind is dominated
by phantasms which have no prompting
from what is passing around him. To the
lover comes a sweet aud gracious face,
which represents the light and loveliness
of the earth ; to the miser, a suit of
diamonds, in which he sits and gloats,

VOL. I. G

while troops of gnomes empty sacks of
gold at his feet ; to the widowed heart a
dear form, lost to her for ever, which says,
with radiant smile, " I live ;" to the poeta
star, which kisses him, and to which he
talks as to a beloved comrade.

The new visitor to the Silver Isle lay
under a different form of enchantment.
The full sunlight was upon him, he
was surrounded by breathing, moving
life, and the shape in which it presented
itself to him was inspired by a
nature essentially dreamy and poetical.
Gazing before him with half-closed eyes,
every object that met his sight was invested
with an air of delicious unreality.
The clouds appeared to be thousands of
miles away, and the human workers in the
fields, with the landscape beyond, were
wrapt in a hazy mist. The delusion extended
to the voices of the reapers ; words
that were spoken within a few yards of him
came to his ears now as though from an
illimitable distance, and now quite close,
with a lullaby resembling the soft murmuring
of a leafy wood. Colour and sound were
in perfect harmony with the restfulness of
time and scene. The dreamer yielded unresisting

to the sensuous spell, and believed
himself to be enjoying a foretaste of
eternity.

Thus he lay Until the messenger who had
been sent for Father Sebastian returned
with the message that the magistrate was in
the market-place, and desired to see the
stranger there.

Unwillingly he rose, and followed the man
over the lower slopes of the hills, which
were dotted with clusters of pretty houses,
built in various styles to suit the tastes of
the residents. Every house was surrounded
by a verandah, and was embosomed in a
garden of flowers. The eye was refreshed
at every turn by evidences of refinement
and simplicity. The roads were well kept,
the hedges were beautiful in their variety,
being formed of may and wild roses, holly,
sweet barberry, and privet ; and the air was
impregnated now with the sweet perfume
of syringa floating from dusky avenues
of trees, now with the more delicate
fragrance wafted from distant fields of
lavender.

"Mauvais was right," mused the stranger.
When a man is surfeited with the sweets
or disgusted with the buffets of the world,
G 2

this is the land in which to spin out what
remains of the days of his life."

Father Sebastian was in the marketplace
; in a few days the autumn games
were to be held, and men were working
under his direction, fixing the flags and
poles and bushes, and preparing the
ground for one of the great fetes of the
year.

'' Yonder is Father Sebastian," said the
messenger.

An old man, whose white hair flowed to
his shoulders, advanced to the stranger and
saluted him.

''I regret," he said, "you should have
had the trouble to come to me, but I could
not leave my workmen."

The gain is mine," said the stranger ;
it has given me the opportunity of seeing
something of your beautiful isle ; though
I should have been content to dream the day
away in the fields with your haymakers."

We live a very practical life," said
Father Sebastian; 'your people are not
dreamers. You come from Mauvais ? "

'' Yes. ' Harold,' said Mauvais to mea
short month ago, ' you are wearied with
the world—' "

You ! '* exclaimed Father Sebastian,
interrupting the speaker, whose age could
not have exceeded twenty-five years.
So young a man, already wearied with
life ! "

It surprises you," replied Harold
languidly ; "but have you ever asked
yourself whether there is anything in
life worth caring for ? "

I am thankful to say I have never been
brought to that pass."

I have — many times. Life is made up
of pleasure and pain, in neither of which
is there much variety. One kind is much
like another kind, and the sensations they
produce are always the same. It is good
that existence has a natural limit. In such
a land as this a man might accept without
much misgiving the gift of immortality, butin
the busy world it would be an awful
purgatory. ' Harold,' said Mauvais to me,
you are wearied, exhausted ; excitement
has been bad for you. You need repose ;
I can offer it to you. I am in want of a
friend to execute a delicate commission forme.
I select you as that friend ' — (it is
Mauvais' s way to take things for granted
when he wants a favour done) — * I select

you as that friend, and, in obliging me, yon
shall oblige yourself. You are for ever
sighing and searching for simplicity ; I will
send you to an isle where its spirit dwells.'
He explained the commission to me, and
I accepted it. I must do Mauvais the
justice to admit that his description of the
Silver Isle was not strained. His eloquent
words stirred even my sluggish blood."

We hold Mauvais in high regard. Is
he well — satisfied — happy ? "

'' He is well. As to being satisfied and
happy — those are questions a man must
answer for himself."

You speak wisely. What is the nature
of Mauvais's commission ? "

'human. At least, one half of it is.
The other half probably had its origin in
the lower regions. You do not understand
me ? This letter may help you."

The letter he handed to Father Sebastian
ran as follows : —

'' Sir, — By the hands of my friend,
Harold, a scapegrace, whom I beg you to
welcome, for his own sake, I send you a
trust which I ask you to accept in kindly
remembrance of one who owes you already

a debt of gratitude lie can never repay.
By so doing you will confer upon me an
inestimable obligation. I may one day
come to thank you in person for your kindness.
Whatever expenses may be attendant
upon the charge I confide to you can be
defrayed out of the property standing in
my name in the Silver Isle. Repay yourselves,
I pray; but the obligation will
remain, and will ever be gratefully remembered
by your faithful friend,

"Mauvais."

Father Sebastian read the letter aloud,
and said, —

"Mauvais's letter explains as little as
your words the nature of his commission,
but what he sends us will be received and
welcomed, and will be faithfully cared for
until it is reclaimed. The commission, sofar
as I can make out, is in the form of a
consignment. Is that so ? "

'' It is so''

Have you brought it ashore ? "

No ; it is in the schooner."

If you will bring it, we will receive it
from your hands, and give you quittance
for it."

A smile crossed Harold's lips.

I need no receipt. It can speak for
itself."

As he turned to go, his eyes fell upon
the statue of Evangeline, which stood in
the centre of the market-place.

'have you sculptors in the isle? "he
asked.

We have men who employ their leisure
in the study of the art," replied Father
Sebastian, " but none able to produce such
a figure as that."

"It is to be hoped not," said Harold,
shrugging his shoulders, '' for never was
the human form so travestied. The composition
of the figure is unutterably bad,
the expression most vile, the limbs and
features entirely out of proportion."

"Your critical judgment," said Father
Sebastian warmly, " is sadly in error. The
figure is faultless, and full of grace ; it is
the work of a young sculptor in Mauvais's
land—"

Very young, I should say," interrupted
Harold.

"And is most exquisite," continued
Father Sebastian, "in composition and
detail. It is not alone the work of a man's

hand, it is the work of a man's soul, and
were the artist here we should be proud todo
him honour."

In what way ? " asked Harold listlessly.
Would you give him a wreath, or fill his
ears with empty phrases ? That is how
genius is rewarded over the water. Or
they wait until the man dies in poverty,
and then they erect a statue over his
grave. I hope the sculptor who moulded
and cut this figure, vile as it is, was
substantially rewarded for it in his lifetime."


Thirteen hundred ounces of silver was
the price he was paid for his work."

Little enough ; I hope he got it. There
is so much roguery in the world that one
is never sure. Now I look at the figure
more closely, I discern some merit in it.
But if the sculptor ever thought he could
attain perfection, he was a fool for his
pains. Of course you know the name of
the artist ? "

'' We endeavoured," said Father Sebastian,
" to obtain it from the captain who
took the commission from us, but he said
the sculptor stipulated that his name
should not be mentioned."

The modest fool."

Nay, eccentric, mayhap," said Father
Sebastian, 'but he did not desire entire
obscurity. Here you see is an H cut in
the marble."

It might stand for Harold," said Mauvais's
friend, "in which case Harold might
stand for an idiot. But the day is waning.
I must bring you Mauvais's charge before
sundown'*

He made his way at once to the schooner,
and in due time returned with the cargo
consigned by Mauvais to the inhabitants
of the Silver Isle : a child scarcely three
years of age, and a man, deformed and
ungainly, not more than four feet in height.
The child gazed about in delight, seeking
what was beautiful, and prepared to enjoy
it. The dwarf gazed about in distrust,
seeking for what was hidden beneath
the surface, and prepared to condemn it,
unseen.

The islanders were but little prepared
for such a consignment, and their looks
expressed their astonishment. One half of
the charge entrusted to them by Mauvais
was of metal so attractive ^s from its own
grace and beauty to ensure a welcome ;

of the other half not so much could be
said.

What kind of being is this," thought
the islanders, as the dwarf stood among
them, peering this way and that, '' and
what kind of soul can live in such a
body ? "

'' What kind of men and women are
these ? " thought the dwarf. " Like their
fellows, I doubt not. Fair face — false
heart."

Thus at once was engendered between
them a feeling of antagonism.

"I told you," said Harold, who had
observed, with an amused smile, the manner
in which Mauvais's trust was received,
that the consignment could speak for
itself. It is veritably human in shape. It
cries when it is hurt, and laughs when it
is tickled."

The misshapen dwarf took no apparent
heed of Harold's words ; he stood regarding
the islanders with a frown upon his
face.

Well ? " he questioned of Father Sebastian.


"What would you have, friend?" inquired
Father Sebastian.

Civility."

'' We have spoken no word concerning

you."

•' Not with your tongues ; but with your
eyes. You received a letter from Mauvais.
Has it not explained matters ? "

*' Not fully. To speak frankly—"

Aye, do. It will be agreeable — and
novel."

'' We are surprised, and we would make
sure."

"What surprises you?" sneered the
dwarf. " My shape ? It surprised me
when I first understood it and compared
it with other menes. And of what would
you make sure ? Whether this little maid
and I come from Mauvais ? "

Yes, we would be assured of that."

'leave my evidence out. Crooked
body, crooked words. Speak you, sculptor
Harold, and say whether we are hereunder
false pretence or not."

This man and this child," said Harold,
represent the delicate commission I was
entrusted with, and promised to execute.
Of one part of it I am glad to be rid; the
other I could put up with a while longer.
You seem not to be prepared for such

a consignment. It will grieve Mauvais to
the heart — "

Eh ? " interrupted the dwarf, " where
will it grieve him ? ' '

To the heart," continued Harold, with
imperturbable good-humour, '' if he finds
there is any difficulty."

"There shall be no difficulty," said
Father Sebastian, after a short pause.
Leave this singularly assorted pair. Weare
content."

Not so am I," exclaimed the dwarf :
there is something more to be said.
The little maid is in my care. Learn for
yourselves whether the association is
repugnant to her." He dropped the pretty
hand he had held in his, and he stepped
back a few paces from the child. She
looked at him inquiringly, then ran
towards him, and with a confiding motion
placed her arms round his neck. He
smoothed her hair, and gently patted her
cheek. *' We do not stay here without a
fair and honest welcome."

How shall we call you, friend ? "

"As others call me. Ran."

We are not desirous of harbouring
any that are not of our kith and kin ; but

Mauyain has a claim upon us, which weare
glad to recognize. You are free of
the Silver Isle, you and your little maid.
We give you both honest welcome. Are
you content now ? "

Aye — as far as my nature goes."

Father Sebastian stooped and kissed the
child. " What is your name, pretty one ? "

"Evangeline."

The reply excited a strange feeling of
interest. No other female in the isle had
borne the name since the death of that
Evangeline whose statue adorned the
market-place.

The child smiled; her smile was like
sunlight. Short light-brown curls hung
down to her shoulders. Her brown eyes
looked innocently into theirs. No hard
task to welcome such a visitor ; already
had the new Evangeline won the hearts of
the islanders.

Father Sebastian turned to Ran, and
said, —

'' I perceive no likeness between you
and this little maid."

Why should there be ? Ah ! I see
your thought. But it will not stand the
test of reason."

Is the child an orphan, then, seeing
that she is here unattended by blood kith
or kin?"

Accept her as such," replied Ran.
The more likely are you to be bound to
her by ties of affection, if they happen to
grow between you ; the more likely is she
to be bound to you in the same way. Say
to Mauvais," he continued, addressing
Harold, " that we are content to stay upon
this isle, and that we are as glad to be
quit of you as you are to be quit of me."

"Your message shall be delivered," said
Harold gaily, " word for word. Princess
of the Silver Isle, I kiss your fairy
fingers."

He waved his hand to Father Sebastian
in token of adieu, and turned towards the
shore, where his boat was waiting for him.
Before midnight the schooner, gliding
through the luminous track of moonlight
on the sea, disappeared from the sight of
the islanders.

CHAPTER IV.

Fair and lithe and graceful was Evangeline
; as beautiful as the Evangeline of old,
between whom and the child committed
to their care the islanders grew to believe
there was in some strange way a spiritual
connection. Their first duty was to decide
in whose charge Evangeline should be
placed. They feared that Eanf would
claim her, and it was a relief to them when
he said he intended to live alone and to
shift for himself. It appeared to the
islanders to accord with the fitness of things
that Evangeline's childhood should be
passed in the house owned by Mauvais. It
was occupied by a family named Sylvester,
and Evangeline, adopted by universal consent
as the child of the Silver Isle, was
received by the Sylvesterss as a member of
their family.

Her friendship for such a being as Ran ,
was to the islanders the strangest of
enigmas. He whom all men avoided and
who avoided all men, to whom no woman
held out the hand of friendship, and
who neither courted nor desired friendly
communion, was the last person in the
world the islanders would have chosen as
the friend of Evangeline. But she had
pretty wilful ways against which their
strongest persuasions were powerless. In
vain they sought to woo her from Ran , believing,
as they conscientiously did, that the
association was harmful to her. Despite
their entreaties ai:id remonstrances, she was
staunch and true to the cripple, whose
misshapen features assumed a tender
expression in the light of her beautiful
smile. The islanders never beheld Ran
in this aspect. When he descended to the
valleys, as he was compelled to do occasionally
for provisions, they saw a morose,
ill-featured man, deformed in body, short,
crooked, and surly-mannered, who gave
back three frowns for one, and paid cold
words and looks with bitter interest. If
anything could have added to the horror
entertained by the islanders towards the

VOL. I. H

mountain of snow, it was its adoption by
Ran as his home. He built upon it three
huts at various points : the first a few
hundred feet above the altitude of the
valleys, the second in the mid-distance, the
third very near to the topmost peak. The
life he led there, having for his companions
only goats and birds and dogs, was in fit accordance
with his morose moods. Nature
had inclosed his evil mind in a deformed
case, so that he should be less able to impose
upon his fellows. His constant presence
among them would have been a calamity ;
it was well, therefore, that he should have
chosen the fateful mountain for his .
Next to the misfortune of being
compelled to submit to his residence on
the isle (for although their word was given,
they chafed at the infliction), it was what
they would most have desired. This was
the judgment of the islanders upon Ran
the deformed.

The judgment was a growth, and was
formed from direct evidence. It would
undoubtedly have been a difficult matter
for the inhabitants of the Silver Isle to
have entertained immediately cordial relations
towards one whose outward shape

was as ungainly as this manners were uncouth,
and whose physical malformation
was not counterbalanced by mental grace
or sweetness. But the islanders were just
men, and in the course of time, had Ran
cared to conciliate them and win their
favour and good words, their sense of
justice would have been stronger than
their instinctive aversion. They might
have been moved to exercise the rare
virtue of ascertaining what was good in a
man who possessed no outward recommendation,
and giving him credit for it, instead
of the common human failing of magnifying
what was repulsive and condemning him
for it. To this better end, it was necessary
that they should have an insight into
Eanf's inner nature. He supplied them
with material. He had a full appreciation
of the manner in which he had been
received upon his first appearance in the
Silver Isle, and he took a malicious pleasure
in exhibiting his worst qualities in
their worst light. He allowed his hair
to grow wild, he exaggerated his natural
deformities, he delighted in uncouth gestures,
he sneered at the simple customs
of the islanders, and in a general way he
H 2

played into the hands of their prejudices.
The mutual resentment thus engendered
grew stronger as the weeks and the months
passed by.

The first serious impression against Ran
was produced on his first Sabbath in the
Silver Isle. It was a day sacredly observed
by the islanders — a day of rest and religious
contemplation, upon which only the
simplest and most innocent pleasures were
permitted. The hour for prayers had
arrived ; the church in the valley was full,
but Eanf was not among the worshippers.
The islanders spoke of the circumstance
gravely, and addressed the minister upon
the subject. He sought Ran, and gently
admonished him. Ran opened his eyes
wide.

How old are you, minister ? " he inquired.


"I have lived forty years," was the
reply.

"And I a year longer," said Ran,
'' therefore my judgment is likely to be as
ripe as yours. As ripe ! Forty times
riper, I should say, for every year of my
life has in its experiences been equal to
those of forty years in the lives of ordinary

men. Look upon me, minister. You see
a man cut out of the natural mould.
Something is passing through your mind
with reference to me. What is it ? "

Pity."

'but I don't ask you for it. What!
Shall I beg for it, of you and other men,
by whining of my deformity, and then be
grateful to those who give, and humble to
those who mock me for a misfortune I
could not avert ? Pity ? Give it to your
dogs ! What want you of me ? "

'' You have come to live among us'*

'well?"

We wish you to be as other men — "

Ran interrupted him quickly. "But
I am not as other men. Can you
straighten my body? "

It is out of my power."

"Not being able to do that, are you
mad enough to think you can straighten
that part of me which you cannot see ?
Are the men in this isle gifted with
spiritual insight, and with miraculous
power of healing mental wounds ? Then
they are more than mortal."

You have suffered in the past," said
the priest in a tone of compassion.

Mean£ smiled scornfully. " Truly I have
memories. A sleeping child, lying before
me like a new-born flower. A sleeping
woman, never again to open mortal eye
upon the world. Memories ? Aye, they
live within me, never to be forgotten.
Here is a bare waste — and here some
streams of blood which time has not
dried np — and here a patch of flowers, not
yet quite withered ! "

Look forward, upward ! " cried the
priest, pointing earnestly to the fair sky
above.

Ran's malicious eyes followed the
direction of the priest's hand.

I have farther to look than you," he
said, " beg some inches lower. What
do you see there ? "

God is there."

I ask you what you see, and you
answer with a platitude — a foundation of
shadow upon which priests erect reliefs
of various shapes and colours, each one of
which gives the lie to the others. God is
here ! " and Ran, stooping to the ground,
plucked a blade of grass, and held it in his
open palm. " Here is surer evidence of
Nature's wondrous work. I prefer to

look downwards. Earth is sweeter than
vapour. I have come to live upon this
isle. True. How have I been received ?
With pleasant looks and words of welcome ?
Your men avoid me, your women fly from
me, your children are being taught by
example to look upon me with aversion.
I have heard that on this isle you boast of
exercising an even-handed justice. It is
a boast, neither more nor less. For what
kind of justice is that which declares,
knowing nothing of me except what is
seen and what I would rid myself of if I
could, that I am unfit to associate with
the clean-limbed men of the Silver Isle ?
Ah, you are rare justice-mongers ! Take
scorn for scorn. I give it — full measure
! "

'' Can I do nothing to soften you ? "
asked the priest, distressed by Ran's
bitter words.

"Minister," said Ran with mock
humility, " my mind, alas ! is as twisted
as my body. It is entangled with doubts.
I have no reverence ; I have no faith ; I
have no creed by which I can juggle
myself into the belief that I am a saint."

'' It would be an arrogant belief, in you

or any. You need enlightenment. "We
ask you to worship with us ; we will pray
for you."

And if your prayers succeed, there
will be hope that I may mount to heaven
upon the back of a better-shaped man
than myself! Truly, this is an isle of
self-sacrifice ! Do you lose sight of your
own salvation ? Which, let me tell you,
needs all the prayers that you can pray.
And for my sake ! For the sake of such
a man as I!" He twirled grotesquely
before the priest, and contorted his
features. " Let the job alone, minister.
You never saw an angel of my shape, in
dream or picture. You make your angels
sleek and trim, in a mould as beautiful as
it is false."

*' You speak," said the priest sadly, "as
one without religion."

Ran waved his hands around and above
him with comprehensive gesture. '' Here
is my religion," he rejoined, " and here
my church. I need no human teachers.
I set no creed for you ; set none for me."

CHAPTER y.

THE Return OF THE Wanderers.

The Sylvesterss were five in family, and
represented three generations : Matthew
Sylvester, a man in his sixth decade, his
son Paul, Paul's wife Margaret, and their
two children, Joseph and Gabrielle. Upon
Evangeline's introduction into the household,
Joseph was seven and Gabrielle four
years of age.

That Evangeline should find a home in
the house which by right belonged to
Mauvais was natural and just. But the
idea did not emanate from the islanders ;
the first suggestion of such an arrangement
came from Margaret Sylvester.
The moment the woman saw Evangeline
she implored to be allowed to adopt the
child as her own, and as she was a goodwife
and a good mother, and was supported
in her wish by Paul and Matthew

Sylvester, there could be no reasonable
opposition to the offer. Ran, also, had a
voice in the matter. He made it known
that, although he intended to shift for
himself and to live apart from the islanders,
he expected to be satisfied with the home
selected for Evangeline. " I shall not
trouble the woman who takes charge of
her," he said, " but I must see that she is
one who is not likely from caprice to deny
me the right of seeing the child when I
desire." He visited the Sylvester family
once only, using his eyes more than his
tongue, and after exchanging a few words
with Margaret, expressed himself satisfied.
The history of the elder members of the
Sylvester family was strange and romantic,
and differed from that of most of the
residents of the Silver Isle. Matthew
Sylvester, born upon the isle, and marrying
when he was twenty-five years of age, lived
in apparent contentment until he lost his
wife. When this misfortune fell upon him
he became restless, and his eyes wandered
seawards with an eager longing in them ;
and opportunity offering, he announced his
intention of leaving the isle. There was
no restraint upon the movements of the

inhabitants ; every man was free to go and
come as lie pleased; but in the event of one
leaving and returning after a lapse of years
lie seldom regained his place among his
fellows. It was expected that he should give
an account of the manner of his life during
his absence, and it generally happened that
the story of adventure contained episodes
which, being slurred over, produced in the
minds of his hearers a suspicion that
something was being concealed from their
knowledge which was not to the wanderer's
credit. Under any circumstances the
experiences he was supposed to have acquired
in the outer world did not tell in his
favour. It was as though he had passed
through the fire, and had not been purified.
In their relations to the land, as a people,
the islanders were thoroughly conservative.
It was not exactly regarded as disloyal fora
man to leave the country of his birth, but
it most surely weakened the tie by which he
was bound to his comrades.

Matthew Sylvester was left a widower
with one child, Paul ; and the islanders, by
whom he was loved for his open, generous
ways, and for a certain gay freedom of
manner which distinguished him from the

throng of men, endeavoured to dissuade
him from his intention of leaving the isle ;
but when they saw that he was determined
to go, they discontinued their endeavours
to turn him from his purpose.

You may make your mind easy about
your son," they said ; '' he shall be properly
brought up, and shall be taught to
bear you in loving remembrance. The
thought of him may bring you back tous."



'' I intend to take my son with me,"
Matthew replied.

They expostulated with him. '' A child
needs a woman's care, and our women are
ready to receive your boy."

Again they found Matthew stubborn ; ho
refused to part with Paul, saying, —

'' I must have something to love. A
man cannot live a healthy life upon
dreams."

The islanders were not word-wasters ;
what they said they meant. Yea was yea,
and nay was nay. They bade Matthew
God-speed, and he wandered with his son
into the unknown world.

He was absent for twenty years, during
which time the islanders heard nothing of

bim. Suddenly, without announcement or
forewarning, lie returned, and with him his
son Paul, now grown to strong manhood.
They were accompanied by a young and
attractive woman, Paul's wife, Margaret,
in appearance like a gipsy. It was not
only she, with her dark skin and flashing
eyes, who bore the gipsy stamp ; the two
men were embroiled by the sun, and had
a free air of travel upon them. The evidences
of an adventurous life were clearly
apparent; their clothes were stained and
worn, and there was more colour in them
than the islanders were accustomed to;
they wore their hats jauntily, and their
voices were loud and merry. The islanders
scarcely knew the Sylvesterss at first,
so long a time had elapsed since their
departure from the isle. But Matthew
soon brought himself to the remembrance
of old friends, and shook hands heartily
with them, as did Paul, without any restraint
of manner, although every face he
saw was strange to him. Their gay bearing
produced a curious effect upon the
islanders. It jarred a little, and yet was
not displeasing.

'' We have thought of you often' said

Matthew's friends, "and wondered especially
what had become of your little son."

No longer little," responded Matthew,
a man in heart and inches. This is his
wife, Margaret."

The islanders saluted the woman with
grave courtesy ; their decision respecting
her had yet to be made. Their own people
had a claim upon them, and a common
right to live among them ; they belonged
to the soil. But something must be known
of the stranger before they could hold out
the hand of friendship to her.

Their grave manner did not discompose
Margaret. She returned their salutation
with rough grace, and absently, her mind
being occupied. She was thinking whether
a life in this fair and lovely isle would be
suitable to her. It was not for the inhabitants
to welcome her ; it was for her to
welcome them.

One enduring impression the isle always
produced upon those who breathed its air
an impression of perfect restfulness and
peace. Often, during the fever of his busy
life in the great world, had it stolen upon
Matthew with soothing effect. Through
the glare and turmoil had come the soft

lapping of the Naves and the movement
of idle clouds, as he had heard and seen
them in his younger days, and the memory
never failed to bring relief to his jaded
mind.

'' Is it your intention to stay for good
with us ? " asked Matthew's friends.

''If we stay," replied Matthew, " I hope
it will be for good. The world has not
been kind to us ; we wooed it, and flattered
it in a cunning way, but the points of our
quills were not sharp enough ; and I fancy
our skins were too tender. We have taken
our part, and have received hard knocks.
You see, friends, in the world one cannot
live upon nothing. A little Twould do, for
the life is adventurous, and there's movement
in it. What puts spice into the days
is their uncertainty, but it is possible to
have too much of this spice. We had
occasionally, and it kept us awake. This
was necessary, for where we have been, it
is next door to death to sleep too long ; in
an hour you are forgotten, and another
takes your place. We knew it, and were
always on the move, trying to climb the
ladder, mounting one step and slipping
down two. It generally happens, and no

one to give you a hand. For all that, we
were not fools. Wait, we will show you
something; Margaret has a rare gift.
Sing."

Thereupon Margaret lifted up her voice,
and sang a melody that sounded like the
music of birds. The song was in keeping
with the scene — the blue and white clouds,
the shining water, the fragrant air, all
were in harmony with Margaret's voice.
It was strange to hear this strong, large-limbed,
swarthy-faced woman sing notes
as soft and sweet as ever issued from
a linnet's throat. The islanders were
charmed; and all discordant impressions
produced by the unaccustomed licence of
Matthew's speech instantly vanished.

'' Will you believe," continued Matthew,
when the song was ended, " that such a
voice was not magical enough to fill our
pockets? What is wanted outside the
girdle of these silver waves is arrogance,
and strut, and clang, the natural capital
of brazen braggarts, who bellow sweeter
talents into obscurity. Let me tell you.
Paul here was a man, two-and-twenty.
He and I had been not only father and son
to each other, we had been friends, lovers

almost, heart-and-soul companions — comrades
in the truest sense. We were never
parted ; we shared and shared alike. We
had slept in garrets, in cellars, in hovels, in
palaces — aye, friends, it is true — in forests
and barns, and Heaven knows where and
how. We had feasted and starved, had
been courted and laughed at, bowed to and
buffeted. Oh, there was colour enough ;
we never lacked variety. Sometimes fortune
smiled upon us, and we saw golden
clouds and fairy ships riding on them ;
sometimes fortune frowned upon us, and
the rain poured down. Ugh! how it
soaked through our clothes to our skins !
But it always passed away, this discomfort,
and we were again as happy as harmless
busy days can make a man. For look you,
friends, we did no man or woman harm.
By good or bad luck we had not learnt to
cheat or lie. We simply trudged along
the road of life together, boy and man,
and laughed when we could — and made
others laugh sometimes — and did not
always cry when the stones cut our feet.
So I grew older, and Paul grew younger ;
for that is the way of life until we reach
the turning-point, which I had passed

VOL. I. I

when Paul became a man. He was two-and-twenty,
young enough for love. We
happened to have money in our pockets,
enough for the day, and, making for a
certain town, our road lay through a
foresters

At this point he suddenly stopped, and
said, —

What follows is not for every ear. To
three of my oldest friends whom I see
among you " — he indicated them by name
" I will relate the conclusion of my
story. If they express themselves satisfied,
it will, unless the ways of the isle are
altered, be sufficient to convince you that
the daughter I have brought with me is
worthy of your love and confidence. You
see, Margaret," he said, turning to the
woman, " we must comply with the unwritten
laws of the isle. You have won
favour by your singing, but that is a trick ;
it will be best to win a welcome upon more
solid grounds than a woman's tuneful
voice."

'' They have to approve of me first ? "
questioned the woman thoughtfully.

It is not the most gracious way of
putting it."

'' But it is the straight way," quickly
interrupted Margaret.

Yes, it is the straight way. You are
right, Margaret."

Do not forget," said Margaret then,
that I have also to approve of them,"
with a nod in the direction of the islanders
who were grouped around. " If I do not
like them, I shall not care to stay."

The islanders expressed approval of her
words, and one said, " That is honestly
spoken."

'* J^or," added the woman, "shall I care
to stay unless I feel they are glad to have
me."

"They will be glad," said Matthew.
Our first concern is to know who will
give us shelter till the matter is decided."

A dozen voices answered him at once, all
eagerly expressing hearty friendship and
good will ; and Matthew, laughing, was
about to accept the offer most agreeable
to him, when Margaret held up her hand
and checked him. "Have you not," she
asked, " an empty house or shed — either
will do — which we can occupy till all of
us have made up our minds about each
other?"

I 2

They fell in with her mood, admiring
her independent spirit. Man vain' s house
was unoccupied, and being furnished, was
ready to receive a tenant. The islanders
offered it to Matthew Sylvester, who accepted
it. He had not returned to the Silver
Isle empty-handed. Boxes filled with all
kinds of paraphernalia, cages containing
strange birds, with many curious oddments,
lay about the beach. These were removed
into Mauvais's house, and in the evening,
while Margaret was busy setting the place
in order — for even if they did not take up
their residence on the isle, they would have
to wait for a ship to bear them away —
Matthew Sylvester, closeted with the
friends he had named, concluded the story
of his adventures.

CHAPTER YI.

THE Story OF Margaret Sylvester.

"What I have to tell you," said Matthew
to his friends, "relates chiefly to Margaret,
and I would not have her know you are
acquainted with her story. Therefore I
confide it to your keeping, and yours only,
of all the men and women on the isle.
Although twenty years of a wandering life
may alter a man's ways and mode of speech,
it will scarcely change his inner being.
Once a fool, always a fool ; once a rogue,
always a rogue ; and if I was ever worthy
of your confidence, I am worthy of it now.
It stands to reason. In matters of right
and wrong we travel along the currents of
life in harmony with our instincts, and our
course is generally as we shape it. There
is luck, certainly, and my boat may glide
into a golden harbour, while yours may be
dashed to pieces in the rapids. Those are

the exceptions ; the rule is, according to
one's inheritance and one's own endeavour.

"So much for my preamble.

I left off as we were making our way,
Paul and I, to a certain town, the road to
which lay through a forest. Paul, not so
strong as I, having had a spell of fever upon
him, grew wearied when within half a mile
of our destination. Observing his fatigue,
and that his lips were parched, I bade him
rest while I sought a spring of fresh water.

I wandered into the recesses of the
forest before I found what I was in search
of, and then I filled my flask at a clear
cold spring, and hastened back by a nearer
path. I had occasion to pass a spot where
the trees were thickly clustered, and
before I had left them behind me I heard
the voice of a girl, sobbing. I could not
run from a sound that expressed both
physical and mental pain, so I walked in
the direction of the sobs, and, entering
the thicket of trees, saw a young woman
sitting on the ground by the side of a
sleeping man. The man was older than
the girl by forty years. He looked a
vagabond from head to foot, while the
girl, scarcely eighteen years of age, as I

judged, appeared to be cut out for something
better. The only point of resemblance
between them was in their clothes,
which had seen much better days. For
the matter of that, we were but little
better off.

*' The girl was Margaret. She seemed
to be frightened at my appearance, and
she placed her finger to her lips, entreating
me in that action not to awaken her
companion.

'' ' Have you water there ? ' she asked
in a whisper, pointing to my flask.

I handed her the flask, and she drank.
It struck me that she might be in want of
food as well as drink, and I took some
bread from my wallet, and offered it to
her. She accepted it with gratitude, and
began to eat it hurriedly.

Now, friends, you will discover, if you
have not done so already, that the beauty
of Margaret is not of a kind to win affection
off-hand. Looking at her for the
first time with a careless eye, she not
being in a special manner recommended
to your favour, you see a woman with
flashing eyes, and brown skin, and features
that appear larger than are supposed to

be womanly. Nature has built her on a
grand scale, and as a rule such women as
she, although they immediately attract the
eye, do not so soon engage the affections.
But Margaret gains upon you after a little,
and a tenderness comes into her face
which you had not at first observed. The
true soul of the woman is, as it were,
hidden behind a veil, and does not instantly
reveal itself.

Something of what I have endeavoured
to convey to you I experienced as I stood
looking down upon Margaret as she ate
and drank. The man was a coarse-grained,
ill-featured fellow, but there
was power of a dangerous kind in him,
apparent even in his sleep.

' Can I render you any further service
? ' I asked of Margaret, as she gave
me back my flask.

' No,' she replied, ' except to go at
once before he wakes. Take my thanks
with you.'

' What were you sobbing so bitterly
for ? ' I asked.

She answered me evasively, saying it
was natural she should cry, being hungry.

I shook my head ; I saw that her

grief lay deeper than hunger. The man
moved uneasily in his sleep, and fearing
that I might get Margaret into trouble, I
left her hastily.

Paul and I reached the town for which
we were bound, and put up at an inn, not
more than a mile from the forest. We
retired early to rest, intending to be early
afoot on the following morning. Paul
was soon asleep, but I was kept awake by
thought of Margaret. The face of the
sorrowing girl haunted me ; I seemed to
hear her sobs, and in the darkened room I
saw the dim outlines of her figure as she
sat by the sleeping man in the forest. I
did what might be considered a mad
thing ; but I am generally swayed by
impulse. I rose from my bed, dressed
myself quietly, so as not to disturb Paul,
and crept softly out of the room. With
no clear purpose in my mind, except to see
if Margaret had left the forest, I made my
way to the thicket of trees which had
concealed her from observation. I found
her still there. This time she was alone,
lying on the ground asleep, her head
resting on the outspreading roots of a
tree. As I gazed upon her she awoke.

and, alarmed at the presence of a stranger,
struggled to her feet. I soon relieved her
mind, telling her I came as a friend, and
that it appeared to me she required one.
Why, I asked, was she sleeping in the
forest without protection ?

'' ' I am safe here,' she said ; ' no one will
harm me.'

' Where is the man I saw with you
this afternoon ? '

' Gone into the town, to endeavour to
obtain food or money.'

' You are poor, then ? '

She nodded.

* And hungry still ? '

'' She nodded again.

I could not give her food, as I had
brought none with me, but I told her if
she would accompany me to the inn, I
would pay for food and shelter for her.
She thanked me, but said she could not
go, and I perceived that a secret motive
held her back. The reason why I was so
free in my offers, without consideration
for the man, was that I felt certain there
was no bond of relationship between him
and her. The tone in which she spoke
of him was a sufficient indication ; it expressed

repugnance, hate almost, and
something of fear. Questioning Margaret,
I found that mj idea was correct ; they
were not in any way related to each other.
I asked her why she remained with him,
then. She replied that she had a motive,
a powerful, passionate, absorbing motive,
which prevented her from leaving him
until a person she was in search of was
restored to her. She was not married ;
she had never loved. Who, then, was the
person to whom she vaguely alluded, in a
voice broken by sobs, and in a manner
which betokened how deeply her heart was
engaged in the quest ? I took some pains
to convince Margaret that my desire to
assist and befriend her was an unselfish
one, and was prompted solely by pity for
her forlorn condition.

*' ' My son and I,' said I, ' are sometimes
as poor as you, but we might be able to
aid you. I see that you lead a wandering
life. So do we. We are actors in a small
way, and are travelling continually about.'

She interrupted me eagerly. It
seemed, she said, as if Heaven had sent
me to her. She asked me if in our wanderings,
or in any travelling company we

had been associated with, I had seen a
girl of her own age, resembling her in
features, but fairer than she, and smaller
in stature ? She described tb e girl to me,
most minutely — the shape of her hands,
the colour of her eyes and hair, the beauty
of her teeth, lips, ears, dimples, fingernails,
eye-lashes — not a point by which
the girl could be in some way identified
was omitted ; and as Margaret proceeded
with her description of this creature,
whom it was plain she loved with all the
strength of her nature, she trembled, and
sobbed, and suffered as only those suffer
who have lost one dearer than life itself.

CHAPTER Iii.

Margaret AND Clarence.

The girl she described must have been
wondrously beautiful, and once seen, could
scarcely have been forgotten. I had not
met with her, and I told Margaret so, and
having heard so much, I easily prevailed
upon her to relate to me all the particulars
of her trouble. The girl of whom she was
in search was her twin-sister, but resembling
her only in the shape and form of her
features. Their father led such a life as I
and Paul were leading; he was an educated
man, but poor and fond of wandering. He
travelled — his wife being dead — for years
through many countries, accompanied by
his children.

' He loved us devotedly,' said Margaret,
' and we were most happy with him.
He taught us to play comedies, and, indeed,
wrote pieces to suit us, and we acted them

to simple people in villages and small towns.
We did not perform in large cities. My
father appeared to avoid them purposely,
and when it was necessary for ns to pass
through them in our travels, he made a
point of shunning observation. Ah, how
happy was our life 1 We never knew the
pinch of poverty, and scarcely knew what
care was. Clarice, my darling sister Clarice,
was the flower of our little garden.
Perhaps it was because she was so much
smaller than I, and looked so much
younger, although there were only a few
minutes' difference in our ages, that I looked
upon her as a child and upon myself as a
woman. Indeed, I was the mother of the
family, and Clarice, I believed and believe,
loved me as truly and faithfully as I loved
her. I was not jealous of her, although
she was always the favourite; she deserved
to be, for she was beautiful and gentle ;
while I — well, I have a temper, a little too
quick at times, but not bad, indeed not
bad ! And I am better now since I have
lost Clarice. I have to suffer without
repining, or I may never find her ! '

'' My heart was moved to deep tenderness
by Margaret's plaintive words, which

expressed a world of inherent goodness
and unselfish love. Shortly before her
father's death they were joined by the man
who was now Margaret's companion and
master. Her father's health was breaking,
and this man, by smooth and cunning
ways, and by pretended tenderness towards
the girls, obtained so complete a
dominion over him that, shortly before his
death, which happened three years before
I met Margaret, he gave, by written legal
document, the control of his children into
the hands of the villain.

A villain indeed he proved. The
orphan girls were among strangers ;
there was not one friend in all the wide
world to whom they could turn ; they had
no relatives, and were in the power of a
man whom they could neither love nor
respect, and who brought desolation into
their young lives. He drove them hither
and thither, and made them work and
dance for his profit, at all hours and in all
seasons, and ruled them with a rod of iron.

'^ I will give you the rest of Margaret's
story in Margaret's own words. I wrote
it as she in after-times narrated it to me.
Fancying that you hear Margaret speak,

you will be better able to form a proper
idea of the nature of the woman I was
glad to see my son marry, and whom I
now declare to be worthy of your friendship
and regard."

******

As for me [said Margaret] I could
stand such a life ; I am strong and hardy,
but it was different with Clarice. She
was delicate and fragile, and the work
distressed and fatigued her. While our
father lived, she had been our pet lamb,
and had never received harsh word or look.
She had now to endure such hardship as
we never supposed would have fallen to
her lot ; for we had mapped out a fair
future for her, and had indulged in bright
dreams of a happy wedded life, with a
husband who loved her as we loved her,
and children as fair and sweet as our own
dear girl. We lived in the sunlight then ;
now every hour was dark.

Clarice did not complain to me, but
who should know her strength, and of what
she was capable, better than I ? And I
knew that the life she was now compelled
to live would kill her in a few years. I
did what I could to lighten her work,

when our master was not watching us,
and I planned a scheme of escape, whittier
I knew not, for we were driven from place
to place, from fair to fair, from show to
show, without our being aware in what
part of the country, and sometimes in
what country, we were making crowds of
rough people laugh and applaud.

*' The night selected for our flight
arrived, and Clarice and I stole away at
an hour past midnight, when our master
and all in the village were asleep. "We
had no money, no experience, no knowledge
of the world. The only idea in my
mind was to escape by a road we had
not hitherto traversed, and to trust to
fortune for the rest. That the scheme
was wild and certain of failure did not
occur to me ; the one thing to be accomplished
was to fly from the tyrant who
had brought wretchedness and misery
into our lives.

The night was chosen for its darkness,
so that there should be less chance of our
being seen, and my plan was defeated in
its outset by this precaution. For in my
agitation and confusion, and having no
light to guide me, I missed my way, and

VOL. I. K

we had walked a mile in the wrong direction
before I discovered my error. We
retraced our steps cautiously, for Clarice
was frightened, and cried out every
moment that we were being followed, and
she wept and trembled so, that I reproached
myself bitterly for having made
so mad an attempt. At length Clarice
declared she could walk no farther, and I
saw that it would be cruelty to urge her.
We sat down mournfully by the roadside,
where, cradled in my arms, Clarice fell
asleep. We were not half a mile from the
village we had left, and it was inevitable
that we should be discovered. Some
villagers who had seen us perform, going
early to their work, caught sight of us and
questioned us, and with the cruel joy that
all men seem to feel when helpless creatures
are being hunted down, they carried
the news to our master that his two
dancing-girls were running away. He
hastened to us in a furious passion, and
dragged us before a magistrate, threatening
us on the way with most dreadful
penalties.

For my own part, T think I should
have had the courage to defy him, but

Clarice took all the strength out of me ;
the wild beating of her heart as I pressed
her to my side was torture to me.

To the magistrate our master related
a smooth and plausible story, of the obligations
our father was under to him, of
the friendship that existed between them,
of being appointed guardian to us until
we were twenty-one years of age, with detailed
accounts of our acts of ingratitude
all of which inventions made me quiver
with indignation. His story was conclusive,
my denial of its truth was received
with contempt, and the magistrate treated
us to a homily upon our monstrous conduct,
telling us that we could be put into
prison for our disobedience and rebellion ;
nay, he assisted the case against us by
saying that he doubted not the very
clothes in which we ran away were the
property of our master, and that we could
be severely punished for the theft. Our
master replied it was true. He could
charge us with theft, but he would not do
so out of consideration for our youth, and
because he intended to fulfil to the best of
his ability the trust reposed in him by his
dear and dead friend, our father. He did
K 2

not say that it would not suit his purpose
that we should be imprisoned. He begged
for our discharge, and we were released
with warnings and admonitions from the
magistrate, in whom we should rather
have found a friend than an enemy.

There was no help for us ; we had
been given into slavery, and by a dear
father who would have shed his heart's
blood for us. But it cannot last for ever,
I thought. When Clarice and I are
women, we shall be free ; the villain will
no longer have power over us. Till then
we must submit. So I schooled myself to
patience. We were worked harder than
ever, and we must have earned a great
deal of money, for our performances found
favour wherever we went. He was
cunning, this master of ours. If we performed
to his satisfaction the hard tasks
he set for us, he gave us better food and
fine promises. If we did not please him,
or if money did not flow in plentifully, he
placed the coarsest faite before us, with
blows for a sauce.

' Cannot you see,' he said to me one
day, * what fools you are to thwart me ?
Do as I bid you, and your lives will be

easy and comfortable. All I want is to
make money out of you.'

" The villain had no regard for us as
human creatures ; he and humanity were
strangers, and he used us as though we
were his chattels, devoid of heart or
feeling.

"He had one consuming passion — he
was a gambler, and all our earnings were
squandered at the gaming-tables. That
is why we were always poor, and why he
never let us rest. Despite the hard life we
led, Clarice grew daily more beautiful; she
seemed to belong more to heaven than to
earth, and I used to gaze on her with a kind
of worship. No wonder she was admired
by the common people we played to in the
villages ; they had never looked upon a
fairer face and form. Our master had
the same distaste for large cities as our
father had ; he avoided them most carefully,
anil we wandered in out-of-the-way
places for eight or nine months until
Clarice fell ill, and, much against our
master's wish, we were compelled to rest
awhile until she recovered.

'' During this time it was that I began to
sing to Clarice, and our master discovered

I tad a musical voice which could be
turned to profitable account. It was a
discovery to us as well as to him; the
parts I played in our little comedies were
speaking parts, and no opportunity had
been afforded me of using my chief gift.
Coming in one night while I was singing,
our master bade Clarice dance to my voice.
She obeyed him, and as I sang she moved
gracefully about, in accordance with the
suggestion of the melody, now slowly, now
with spirit, and now with a sweet and
innocent abandon that captivated him as
well as me. The child had nearly recovered
from her sickness, and she was
grateful for returning health ; her disposition
was naturally gay, and her slavery
had not yet lasted long enough to crush
all joyousness out of her. There was
something spiritual in her movements ;
the room was but dimly lighted, and as she
glided in and out of the shadows, I was overtaken
by fear that she might fade from our
sight, and that we should see her no more.

*' ' Clarice ! ' I cried in alarm.

She sprang towards me ; but before
she could reach me, our master seized her
in his arms.

' You are beautiful ! ' he said in a
thick voice. ' I have been blind. You
are beautiful, Clarice ! '

He pressed his lips to hers, and Clarice
shrieked to me for protection. A sudden
fury animated me; a knife lay near to
my hand; I snatched it from the table,
and flew upon the villain. In a moment
Clarice was free, and I was striking at
him with the knife ; he seized my wrist,
and the knife fell to the ground; and then
with all my force I struck at his face with
the hand that was free. He pushed me
violently from him, and without a word
left the room. Then Clarice fell into my
arms, and sobbed as though her heart
were breaking.

I think it was during those few agitating
moments that I became a woman.
I was but sixteen years of age, but my
girlhood came suddenly to an end, and the
map of a woman's life was spread before
me. I understood it, and prepared to
battle with the bitter reality. After I put
Clarice to bed, I picked up the knife ; there
was blood upon it.

Our master did not appear again that
night. The next morning he said that,

Clarice being better, we must be on the
move again. We owed him mucbj lie
informed us, for our weeks of idleness. I
glanced at his hand ; it was bandaged, and
there was a mark on his face. I was both
glad and afraid, but I was careful not to
exhibit the slightest symptom of fear or
regret. No reference was made to the
occurrence until the evening, when my
master said, striving to impart lightness
to his voice, —

' You are strong, Margaret.'

'' I replied, ' Thank God for it ! I shall
know how to use my strength. Be careful
not to provoke me.'

That was all that passed between us,
and when he next spoke to Clarice, it was
in his usual tone, that of a master to his
servant.

He did not deceive me, nor throw me
off my guard, and I think he was not
aware how often I detected him looking at
Clarice with a certain thoughtfulness in his
face which I could not rightly interpret at
the time. I did not let Clarice out of my
sight, and a little story my father use to
read to us of a wolf, a lamb, and a faithful
watch-dog sometimes crossed my mind in

relation to ourselves. I was determined
the wolf should not hurt my lamb ; he
would have to tear me to pieces first.

''I had need of all my wits. Keeping
watch as I did upon our master's movements,
I regarded every new and unusual
thing he did with suspicion. He was most
careful in his behaviour towards Clarice,
and seldom addressed her, making me
generally the medium of communication
between them, saying, ' Tell Clarice this,
or that.' A day or two after her convalescence,
he remarked that her illness had
left her somewhat weak, and that she required
nourishment ; and he gave us wine
with our dinner. We drank only a little,
for the wine was strong, and mounted to
our heads. Under its influence we both
laughed and talked too freely, and our
master appeared to be pleased with our
gaiety, and encouraged us to drink more,
filling our glasses for us with merry words.
But I happened to look at him as he poured
out the wine, and the expression of devilish
exultation in his face chilled and warned
me. I pushed the full glasses away.

' Come, Clarice,* I said, and we walked
from the room.

We drank no more ; we were saved.

'' For a week wine was placed on the
table at every meal, but we never touched
it.

' You are grateful, you girls,' our
master said, with a surly look ; ' you
deserve kindness ! Why don't you drink
your wine ? '

' We prefer water,' I replied ; * save
your money, master. You will not persuade
us to love wine.'

'' ' Have your way,' he muttered in a
brutal tone, and raised his arm as though
he would have liked to strike me. But he
dared not ; he knew that I would no longer
submit tamely to his blows.

We suffered in other ways for our
rebellious conduct ; but we bore all
patiently.

*' One night, at the end of a long day's
journey, we saw in the distance the lights
of a larger town than we were in the habit
of stopping at. To our inexperienced
eyes it looked like a fairy illumination.
In some parts the houses were very
numerous, and quite close together ; hills
and terraces were dotted with tiny stars ;
and as we neared the town I saw a sheet

of silver water in which the lights were
reflected. It was a beautiful sight. I
was filled with curiosity, and wondered to
myself what our master's purpose could
be. Clarice's eyes sparkled.

'' ' Are we going to stop in that place ? '
she asked.

' Yes,' said our master, ' we are going
to play there. We shall remain a week ;
if you please me you shall have new
dresses.'

The news set me thinking, but I had
no reason to suspect anything wrong. It
was good news, I decided ; to play in a
large town meant better lodgment and
better food for Clarice ; and I don't know
how it was, but I had a vague idea that in
such a place some one who had known our
father might see us and take pity onus.
It never happened. Something more
terrible did.

The hall we were engaged to sing and
dance in was situated in the worst part of
the town, and was frequented by men and
by women it made me blush to come in
contact with. The first night's experiences
were a sufficient indication of the kind of
theatre our master had sold our services

to, and I was careful that Clarice should
not exchange a word with a soul but
myself. I was curious to know what
particular reason had induced our master
to depart from his usual practice of exhibiting
our talents only in small places, and
I learned that the town was celebrated for
its gambling saloons. Here, then, was a
reason which I could understand, and my
great hope was that he would meet with
the gambler's usual luck, and, having lost
all, leave the town in disgust. The
common people before whom we had been
in the habit of performing pleased me
best ; they were uncultivated, it was true,
but in the place of their ignorance and
rough admiration we had now to submit
to the polished gaze and insidious compliments
of a set of men whose manners
were an offence. That they met with no
encouragement from us aroused the anger
of our master.

'' ' The place is not good enough for you,
eh ? ' he cried to me, on the third night of
our appearance at the hall.

' Not quite,' I replied.

' It will pay you to be civil to my
friends,' he said threateningly.

'' ' Your friends do not suit us I
answered, looking him full in the face,
and if you force them upon us, we shall
refuse to work for you. We may obtain
a better kind of justice here than we have
hitherto met with. We may meet with
tender hearts that will pity us and release
us from a hateful bondage.'

' Tender hearts ! ' he sneered. ' Gentlemen,
eh ? '

'' ' Yes,' I said, ' true gentlemen, not
lackeys.'

"A dark look clouded the face of the
wolf.

* I will tame you yet,' he said.

*' It was our misfortune that we were
talked about in the town, and that Clarice's
beauty became the theme of general admiration.
Before the week was out, a better
class of men — and women too — levelled
their opera-glasses at us, and on the last
night of our engagement our master bade
us pack up at once. I was surprised, for
the proprietor of the hall wished us to
continue to perform, and offered our master
a larger sum of money for the renewal of
our services than had been agreed upon
between them. Our master told me so

much, and took credit to Myself for refusing
the offer.

'' ' This place is too common for such
delicate creatures,' he said. 'You shall
have better lodgment.'

We did not leave the town ; he conveyed
us to a more fashionable quarter,
where, to my further surprise, new dresses
were given to us, finer than we had ever
worn. Everything seemed to be prepared
for us, for the dresses fitted us to perfection.
The misgivings I felt as we decked
ourselves out in this finery were dispelled
by the delight which Clarice's beautiful
appearance afforded me. Her dancing-dress
was white, with silver trimmings,
and was festooned with small blue flowers.
My dress was by no means so handsome,
and was designed as a foil to Clarice's, but
I looked fairly well in it, and was happily
contented that Clarice should bear the palm
of grace and loveliness. When we were
dressed, our master came and criticised us,
and I could not find fault with him for
openly admiring Clarice.

' These pretty clothes become you,
Clarice,' he said. ' Would you like to be
always dressed as daintily ? '

' Oil, yes ! ' replied Clarice.

'* * Well,' he said, ' stranger things have
happened. Do your best to-night, both of
you. You are going to dance before real
gentlemen — true gentlemen, Margaret, who
have seen the world. We have done with
lackeys. You cannot now say that I have
not tried to please you. Be prepared ; I
will come for you when it is time.'

I observed as he left the room that
he was attired in a better fashion than
usual.

It was nearly an hour before we were
called. Our conversation turned upon our
father, of his kind ways, of the happy life
we had lived with him ; and I told Clarice
how often he and I used to speak of her,
and told her also something of the happy
future we had hoped would be hers.

'' ' It may come yet, Clarice,' I said
fondly. ' It may come yet, my dear sister.
If I were a prince, I should make you my
princess, and challenge the world with
you. Ah ! if some kind heart would
purchase our liberty from our master, or
if Heaven were to set us free, I should
fear nothing ! We should be able to live
I see the way ; I am wiser than I was —

and we would wander hand in hand from
village to town, from town to village, now
playing to simple folk, now to great, until
the prince came — your prince, Clarice ! —
and claimed my treasure.'

'' ' And you. Marguerite,' said Clarice ;
she always called me so, ' you must have
your prince as well as I.'

' No,' I replied, ' I shall never leave
you, Clarice — never, never ! How could
I live without you ? You are my heart,
my soul, my life ! '

She gave me back words as tender as
my own, and asked me to sing to her.
We sat in the dark, with our arms around
each other, and I sang my heart out to
her.

'' Ah ! if the good God had struck us
dead as we sat there, how merciful would
have been the deed ! The harsh voice of
our master broke the happy spell.

'' ' Come,' he said ; ' they are waiting for
yoa.'

'' We went to him, and he threw large
cloaks over our fine dresses, and led us to
the theatre in which we were to perform.
It was part of the hotel in which we were
staying ; our rooms were at the top of the

house, and having been brought there in
the dark night, I had had no opportunity
of observing how grand a building it was.
It filled me now with wonder and admiration.
As we descended the noble staircases,
and traversed the broad passages,
many persons stopped to gaze at us, but
our master hurried us on, as though
anxious to avoid observation. We passed
great saloons, and heard from within the
sounds of laughter and music, and saw
ladies and gentlemen, fashionably dressed,
passing in and out. Presently we entered
a dark passage, at the end of which was
the stage-door of the theatre, and soon we
were on the stage.

It was a small stage, and the curtain
was down. A scene was set, representing
a rural landscape, with trees and water
and cattle, most exquisitely painted. In
the background was a bridge which we
were to cross, I first, playing the castanets,
with which I was very skilful, and Clarice
afterwards. Then I was to sing one of
my lullaby songs, and Clarice was to
dance to it. We had rehearsed the
entertainment in our room at the top of
the house, under the direction of our

VOL. I. L

ea.

master, but we were so accustomed to
each other that we could have performed
any of our numerous little sketches at a
moment's notice without preparation.

When, the curtain being drawn, I
crossed the bridge and faced the audience,
I was so overpowered bv the novelty of
the scene before me that all power of self-control
deserted me. The body of the
theatre was scarcely larger than an ordinary
drawing-room, and was furnished with the
utmost elegance. The paintings on the
walls and ceilings, the velvet chairs framed
in gold, the numberless wax candles which
shed a soft and mellow light around, the
delicious soothing sound of falling water
from a perfumed fountain on each side of
the stage, made it a theatre fit for a king.
How different from the barn we had been
in the habit of playing in ! How coarse
and common they became as I stood upon
this lovely stage, surrounded by this fairy
splendour ! I was like one in an enchanted
dream, enveloped in a voluptuous mist,
which beguiled my senses from all that was
real and true in life.

There were but few persons present,
not more than twenty or thirty, and all

gentlemen, but so dazzled was I that I could
not distinguish a face. A murmur of applause
recalled me to my duty, and then
I knew that Clarice was on the stage, and
was moving gracefully to the cadence of
the song which I was almost unconsciously
singing. It was over in a moment, as it
seemed, and the curtain was down, and
Clarice was lying in my arms, palpitating
with pleasure and excitement. A soft
dreamy look was in her eyes, a transparent
colour in her cheeks, a tender smile upon
her lips. More delicate and spiritual in her
nature than I, she was less able to resist
the impressions which had beguiled my
senses as well as hers.

"ris it real. Marguerite? is it real?'
she whispered.

The answer was given by the audience,
who were calling loudly for Clarice. Nota
voice asked for Margaret.

*' ' Clarice ! Clarice ! Clarice ! ' was all
we heard.

'' The curtain was drawn aside and I led
Clarice forward. Then came calls for a
repetition of the sketch, and, without
leaving the stage, I commenced my song
and Clarice her dance, amid rapt and
L 2

earnest attention. ' Beautiful, bewitching
! ' cried the gentlemen as the curtain
fell, and again we were called ; and then
it rained roses, which Clarice gathered,
and I for her, with smiles and tears.
Our master, who stood in the side-scenes,
said, —

' You have done well. On with your
cloaks ; closer, closer over your heads,
girls ! If they want to see your faces
again, they must pay for it.'

When we were in our room he said, —
' Margaret, if fortune favours me tonight,
we will make the world sing the
praises of our pretty Clarice.'

I did not ask him the meaning of his
words. Between him and ourselves there
was nothing in common, and I took no
interest in his doings, so long as they did
not affect us. Clarice and I were excited
and overwrought, and as we prepared to
retire to rest we spoke but few words to
each other.

' Let us dream of it. Marguerite,' said
Clarice ; ' I want it to happen all over
again.'

I enfolded her in my arms. ' God bless
you, Clarice ! ' I said.

' Grod bless you, dear sister ! * murmured
she ; and so we fell asleep.

My heart bleeds as I recall what followed
during that never-to-be-forgotten
terrible night.

CHAPTER Viii.

Margaret CONTINUES HER STORY.

'* As well as I could judge, we must
have slept for two or three hours when I
was suddenly awakened by a knocking
outside our room. I sat up in bed, and,
listening, heard a tapping at the door.
For a little while I did not speak, but the
tapping grew louder, and the person outside
shook the door to rouse me. Then I
asked who was there, and was answered ina
woman's voice, which I recognized as
that of an elderly servant who had attended
to us and brought us our meals the
day before.

' What do you want ? ' I asked.

' Let me in,' cried the woman ; ' let
me in immediately.'

'' Clarice was asleep. I rose, and
throwing the large cloak over me, went to
the door. But as I was about to turn the

key a suspicion of I knew not what entered
my mind. I had not time to follow-out
the current of my suspicion ; the door
was shaken with greater violence.

' For Heaven's sake ! ' I cried, ' cease
that noise. What is it you want ? '

' I must speak to you at once.'

' Are you alone ? '

' Yes. Who should be with me, do
you think ? '

'• I reflected a moment. There was no
reason to suppose that the woman was an
enemy. What had I to fear from her ?
I opened the door, and she entered. I
had hitherto taken no particular notice of
her, but now I observed her more closely,
beings enabled to do so bv the aid of the
light which she held in her hand, and I
felt that she was a woman it would not be
safe to trust.

'' ' This is a strange time of the night
to call me,' I said ; ' what is the meaning
of it ? '

' You are inclined to be saucy, mistress,'
she said insolently.

I interrupted her. ' You said you
must speak to me at once. What have
you to say to me ? '

' What I was bidden to say,' lie
replied maliciously, playing with my
anxiety.

'' ' Bidden by whom ? '

' By your master.' She paused in the
expectation of my speaking, but I said
nothing, and waited for her to proceed.
Yes, by your master — and the other
gentlemen.'

' Who are the other gentlemen ? '

' The gentlemen who are with him,
and who paid for your performance tonight.
You are to come down at once
with me, you and your sister.'

' What are you about to do ?' I said,
standing before her to prevent her from
going to the bed. ' I will not have my
sister disturbed.'

' You are a grand miss ! You'll not
have this, and you'll not have that ! Be
sensible — there's no time to lose. Dress
yourselves, the pair of you. It will be
worse for you if you make a bother about
it.'

*' ' Why should we get up in the middle
of the night ? What are we called upon
to do ? '

' My dear,' said the woman, and her

tone of confident familiarity made me
shudder. ' Gentlemen get curious notions
into their heads sometimes, and it is not
always safe to cross them. They want
you to dance and sing for them.'

'' ' At this hour ! ' I exclaimed in indignation.
' Indeed, we shall do no such
thing.'

'' ' You speak with an air, mistress.
Your master said you would most likely
refuse.'

' He was right, for once. I do refuse.'

'' ' And he bade me tell you,' continued
the woman, ' that if you did not obey his
orders, he should come and fetch you
himself.'

'* ' If he dare ! '

'' ' I think he will dare, mistress. He is
not a man I should care to anger, and in
his present temper I'll not answer for
what may happen if you are foolish and
obstinate.'

' I do not need your advice. I shall not
go. There is no law that can compel us to
work for him in the middle of the night.'

'' The woman laughed. * There is rich
man's law and poor man's law. Call your
sister, and do as you are bid.'

a.

'"I shall not allow my sister to be
awakened,' I said resolutely. ' You have
my answer.'

' Think twice, mistress.'

'' ' You have my answer. Go, or I will
put you out.'

' You are a determined creature,' said
the woman, ' young as you are. If I were
as fair as you and that chick there, I
should be glad of the opportunity of
pleasing two fine gentlemen. One of themis
worth winning. Tut, tut, mistress !
don't look black at me, and don't try
to make yourself out better than you
are. Girls like you are not over particular
— '

' Leave the room ! ' I cried passionately.
Her insults almost maddened
me, and there must have been that
in my face which frightened her, for she
disappeared swiftly, without speaking
another word.

'' The moment she was gone I closed
the door upon her, with the intention of
locking it, and not opening it again till
daylight. But the key was gone ! I
searched for it on the floor; it was not
there. Could the woman have taken it, in

accordance with instructions given to herby
our master, or had she done so out of
malice ?

I listened. All was silent, and I was
in the dark. At such a time darkness was
my enemy, light my friend. I was certain
that my master would come immediately
he received my message, and as certain
that the woman would convey it to him ina
manner as little favourable to myself as
possible. I groped my way to the table,
upon which I had left a candle and
matches before we went to bed. The
candle was there, but no matches ; they
also had been taken, and I had no means
of obtaining a light. I was in despair.

At first I thought of going boldly into
the passage and calKug for assistance, but
I relinquished the design. My experiences
had not been of such a nature as to encourage
me to place faith in strangers.
We were in a strange hotel, knowing no
person, known to none. In the event of
one chivalrously inclined appearing, how
should I word my appeal to him ? We were
undoubtedly servants, and violence had
not been offered to us. I had absolutely
nothing to say that would insure sympathy.

Then there was the danger of leaving
Clarice. No, I had no option but to wait
for events. One safeguard was still left
to me ; I could barricade the door.

There was, however, only the small
table in the room available for the purpose.
The washstand was a fixture, and to move
the bed was beyond my strength. That
design had also to be abandoned.

The conversation between me and the
woman had been carried in a low tone, and
had not aroused Clarice. Feeling how
necessary it was that I should be prepared
for action, I determined to keep awake,
and I began hurriedly to dress myself. I
was much distressed at the discovery that
the only clothes to my hand were the fine
garments in which we had given our
performance. Before I was fully attired,
the woman returned. She opened the
door without ceremony, and her boldness
convinced me that she had taken the
key.

'' ' Your master has sent me back,' she
said triumphantly. ' I told you how it
would be. He will be here presently.
Ah ! I see you have grown sensible ; you
are dressing yourself.'

' Why did you steal the key from the
door ? ' I asked.

'' ' Fair words, if you please, mistress,'
she retorted. ' It might have been to
your advantage to be civil to me.'

'' I made an effort to soften her.

' Will you not help us ? ' I implored.
Cannot you see that we are friendless
and unprotected ? We will show our
gratitude.'

'' ' How much have you got ? ' she said,
bending forward eagerly, and I heard the
chinking of money in her hand.

'' ' We have no money,' I replied sadly,
not the smallest coin ;' and I could not
help adding bitterly, ' I would buy you
if I could.'

' I am to be bought,' she said. ' When
you are my age, you will be of my mind.
There is only one true friend — money.'

The voice of my master outside struck
terror into me.

' Margaret ! ' he called huskily.

' Well ? ' I answered.

' Are you getting ready ? '

' No,' I found courage to reply,
although my heart was fainting within
me.

'' ' Do so at once he said, and I judged
from his tone that he was making a violent
effort to suppress his passion, ' unless you
wish me to come and drag you out. I
will do it ' — and here he swore a dreadful
oath — 'if you utter another obstinate
word.'

'' I was compelled to confess to myself
that obedience would be perhaps the
wisest course.

' Tell me what is required of us ? '

' Two gentlemen, friends of mine —
but that is no recommendation — say,
then, two gentlemen with whom I am in
company, and who were in the theatre
to-night, have expressed a desire to see
Clarice dance again, and, of course, to
hear yoa sing again. I have consented —
it is money in my pocket, and my honouris
pledged. I will give you time to dress
I am thoughtful, you see. In half an
hour I shall expect you and Clarice below ;
the woman will show you the way. Are
you still rebellious ? Be careful ! '

' We will come,' I said, ' if no harm is
intended us.'

' You are a fool ! No harm is intended.
Answer instantly. You will come ? '

The door moved, obedient to his hand,
and I knew that further opposition would
bring: him into the room.

' We will come,' I said.

' I thought I should tame you,' he said
in a brutal tone. ' If you thwart me again,
you will live to rue it ! '

'' He hurried away, and as I listened to
his retreating footsteps, it seemed to me
that he was as anxious to be gone as I was
to be rid of him. I turned to the woman ;
she was gazing at me with a look of spiteful
triumph on her face.

' If it is thus,' I said, ' that women
assist women, it is better to trust to men.'

' You are a simpleton,' she answered,
but you have spoken the truth. Women
are not to be trusted.'

' We can get ready without your
assistance,' I said, and I bade her quit the
room.

*' She glanced around to assure herself
that there was no chance of our escaping,
and said, as she lighted my candle, —

' I shall wait outside for you.'

'' I waited till she closed the door behind
her. Then I stepped softly to the bedside.

I had been so successful in controlling

my agitation that but little noise lead been
made. Clarice was a deep sleeper, as I
had been before our master's conduct had
aroused my suspicions ; since that time
the slightest sound had been sufficient to
wake me.

I knelt, and took my sister's hand in
mine; her fingers fondly returned my
loving pressure. She was in a peaceful
sleep, and her curls hung loosely about her
childlike face. No angel in heaven could
present a more lovely appearance.

' Clarice ! ' I called.

She opened her eyes, and smiled at me.

' Ah, Marguerite I was dreaming.
It is not morning yet ? '

' No, my darling. What were you
dreaming of ? '

'' * Heaven, I think. We were free,
Marguerite, our own mistresses, and people
were kind to us. Will it ever be ? '

' Yes, dear,' I said ; ' wait till your
prince appears. Perhaps you dreamt of
him.'

'''I don't know she replied with a
blush. ' Why did you wake me ? You
are dressed ! Has anything happened ? '

Nothing to be alarmed at, dear. Weare

to go clown and perform. Our master
insists upon it.'

' That is part of ray dream, Marguerite,
only our master was not present. Wee
performed of our own free will before the
gentlemen who were in the theatre last
night.'

' Two who were there, Clarice, will not
be denied the pleasure of seeing you again,
and our master has consented. You will
not speak to them, nor shall they to you,
if I can prevent it. No harm can befall
you while I am by your side.'

Docile and obedient in this, as in all
things, she submitted to be dressed,
although she was scarcely awake ; and
when we were ready, she walked with me
from the room, with her arm round my
waist, and her head resting on my shoulder.
How fair and lovely she looked as I supported
her, in a half-dream, down the grand
staircases to the saloon where our master
and his master (for he did not deceive me ;
he was but a servant to these fine gentlemen)
were waiting for us 1 The woman
preceded us, and we met not a soul on the
way. Sever shall I forget that time. The
silence, the dim, soft light, the ghostly

VOL. I. M

echo of our footsteps, inspired me with a
superstitious dread of impending evil which
I vainly tried to shake off. It appeared
to me as if every representation of the
human form we left behind us was following
our steps with watchful eyes ; the
statues in bronze and marble, the paintings
on the walls and ceilings, seemed to
be imbued with mysterious life.

' In there, mistress,' said the woman,
and pushing us into a room, the door of
which was partly open, she departed.

It was a large saloon, the greater portion
of it shadow. At oneend, where lights
were burning, sat our master playing cards
with a gentleman, and, if his flushed face
and excited manner were an index to feeling,
playing for higher stakes than he could
afford to lose. The gentleman was cool,
unconcerned, and smiling, as was another,
his friend, who was leaning back in his
chair, idly watching the game.

' Curse the luck I ' from our master.

*' ' "sith all my heart. Curse it I ' from
the gentleman whose luck had been cursed.

"*Ah, here are our divinities ! ' from the
gentleman who was watching the game.

"These exclamations fell upon my

ears as we entered. Clarice did not observe
what was passing around ns ; her
eyes were closed, and, fearing that ina
moment she would be fast asleep, I
tightened my clasp upon her.

' Clarice,' I whispered, ' rouse yourself.
We have work to do ; you must not
sleep.'

She opened her eyes languidly, and
closed them again with a charming smile.

"'I cannot keep them open,' she murmured
; ' I shall be ready to dance when
you want me. Let me dream.'

Some words which I did not catch
passed between our master and the gentlemen.


' She can dance in shadow,' said the
gentleman who was not playing. ' It will
form a finer picture.'

Nevertheless, he came close to us
with a five-branched candelabra containing
lighted candles in his hand.

' Young ladies,' he said in a courteous
tone, * we could not rest until we had a
further exhibition of your grace and skill.
You will perform for us ? '

' We have no option,' I replied with
spirit.

M 2

' We should be loth to compel you todo
what is disagreeable to yourselves,' he
said gently. ' Our friend the manager ' (by
which I understood him to refer to our
master) 'informed us that you would be
delighted at the opportunity.'

'' ' Your friend, the manager,' I said
hotly, with the intention of exposing the
falsehood, as I hoped, to our advantage,
for I could not doubt that the speaker was
a gentleman ; but I was prevented by an
angry exclamation from our master, who,
dashing a pack of cards to the ground ina
fury, cried, —

'' ' The devil's in the cards to-night ! '

His adversary smiled superciliously,
and I divined that he was playing with
our master in more ways than one.

'' All this time the gentleman who held
the candelabra was gazing earnestly upon
Clarice's face, which was lying upon my
shoulder.

*' ' Rest awhile,' he said, and with a light
touch upon my arm, he encouraged me to
sit upon a couch by which I was standing.
Light as his touch was, and gently as I
obeyed it, the motion disturbed Clarice,
who opened her eyes ; they met those of

the gentleman, and some magnetic power
in him prevented her from relapsing into
her almost unconscious state. For a few
moments they gazed at each other in
silence, and then he moved suddenly
away, and Clarice closed her eyes again
with a happy sigh, and nestled in my
arms.

I can give only an imperfect account
of the conversation that now took place
between the men. The gentleman was for
allowing us to rest ; our master would not
have it so.

' It is a debt of honour,' he said nth
a swagger. ' You asked me at what rate
I valued the services of the girls. I told
you — fifty pieces. You staked the money,
and won.'

' But if we are willing to forego the
claim? not reasonable, perhaps. . . .
I am to blame so late an hour
Clarice is almost asleep.'

Then, from our master, with an oath :
I pay my debt. They shall sing and
dance ! . . . . Another fifty pieces to let
them off ? Not double fifty. . . . They are
mine — my slaves ! How ? I bought and
paid for them ! . . . . The luck is against

me ; it will turn it. You will give me my
revenge ? '

' To the last drop of your blood,' said
the imperturbable player ; and added,
looking at this friend, 'Let the girls dance;
it will do them no harm.'

'' ' Do you hear ? ' cried our master tous.
' Dance and sing — I command you !
If the cards trick me, you shall not ! '

"scoundrel!'

'' The exclamation was uttered by the
gentleman who had interceded for us, and
who now again approached us.

« There is no help for you,' said the
gentleman to me ; ' you will dance for
us.'

'' ' True, there is no help for us,' I
answered bitterly ; ' and if I do not thank
you for your intended kindness, it must be
-because I am by nature ungrateful. Goto
your friends ; you are not needed here.'

*' ' He says you are his slaves — by what
right ? '

' I do not know ; the law has decided
it. I fear that Clarice will not live to seethe
end of her term of slavery. As forme,
it matters little ; I am strong, and can
bear anything. Be kind enough to leave

us ; I do not forget that you are the cause
of our being here at this hour.'

He left me without reply, and rejoined
the gamblers.

*' When I had forced myself to calmness,
I commenced my favourite song, and
Clarice glided from my arms, and moved
among the shadows, like one in a dream.
It could scarcely be called dancing, but
her movements were full of grace, and she
inspired me with a fear similar to that
I experienced on the first night of her
recovery from her illness. I was not the
only person in the room who experienced
the feeling, for I heard the gentleman
say,—

' I believe Clarice is a spirit, and that
she will presently melt into thin air. Is not
that what the poet says ? Our revels now
are ended ! Friend manager, that part of
your debt is paid.'

Indeed, Clarice could dance no more.
She sank upon the couch in a sleep so sound
that I could not rouse her. It was not
possible for me to carry her through the
long passages and up the great staircases to
our room, and I doubt, if I had attempted
it, whether I should not have lost my way.

Besides, I also was overpowered with
fatigue, and observing that we Averse now
apparently unnoticed by the gentlemen, I
knelt upon the ground, and placing my
head upon the pillow by the side of Clarice,
I soon was fast asleep.

CHAPTER IX.

THE Betrayal.

"How shall I describe' what followed?
A hundred times have I endeavoured to
recall impressions and events in intelligible
order, and a hundred times have I been
baffled. I have said I was a light sleeper.
What was it, then, that rendered me unconscious
and powerless, when I should
have been standing at my post like a faithful
watch-dog to guard my lamb from the
wolves ?

'^ A cloak is thrown over us. I look up
with eyes but half-open, and I see one of
the gentlemen moving away. My impression
is that he has been standing by our
side for some little while, gazing at us.
His action is kind and considerate, and I
think of him with gentleness. In a pleasant
way Clarice becomes associated with him,
and a number of happy fancies present

themselves. While they are slipping from
me and returning in fantastic shape, I hear
these words : —

'' ' I told you, to the last drop of your
blood ! But if you sold yourself ten times
over, you could not pay what you have

already lost Doubt you ? Be

reasonable, fellow. We trust only our
equals.'

'' A hot retort ; a contemptuous allusion
to the social position of my master ; and
then a vision of three men — two withdrawn
swords, one standing by, amused
at the unequal contest. For the furious
thrusts of our master are parried with
consummate grace and skill by his
antagonist. A jDass — another — and the
brute lies on the ground, at the mercy of
the gentleman.

' Mercy ? It would be a charity to get
rid of you.'

' Leave him to me.'

'* ' My friend is on your side. I make
you over to him. After all, I doubt
whether you are worth the killing.'

'' Clarice and I are back in the old time,
and are walking with our father through
green lanes. It is a well-remembered

walk, beguiled with loving conversation.
We stop for our mid-day meal outside a
picturesque little inn, the porch of which
is a bower of roses and honeysuckle. The
mistress comes out, and gives us a jug of
clear water, drawn from a spring. My
father thanks her courteously, and she
wishes to change the water for wine, but
he will not have it so. We have just
began to eat, when two poor girls, in comparison
with whom we are princesses, passus,
with wistful eyes upon our food. My
father calls them back immediately, and
we share our meal with them. We
question them concerning their history,
and they tell us the story of their
lives

' Sisters ! No ! '

'^ Who spoke ? Not my father, for he
is gone ; the inn, the flowered porch, the
children, have vanished.

'' ' It will be a better kind of slavery

than that to which You dog ! I

believe you stole her You set a

high price upon your wares ; but the
texture is delicate, and its beauty not to
be disputed. How you came to be the
owner is one of the mysteries. Well, have

at you. I'll not dispute your price. Cut
the cards.'

Are the words really uttered, or created
by my imagination ? I cannot say ; but
spoken or not, they convey no warning to
my mind. Blind watchdog ! Sleeping at
your post when you should have been awake
and stirring ! But you have been well
punished for your neglect of a sacred trust.

My dreams continue. We are all
seated round the card-table — the gentlemen,
our master, Clarice, and I. We girls
watch the game curiously as though weare
vitally interested in it. Piles of gold
are before us, which the gentlemen, in sport,
push into Clarice's lap. At first she is
pleased, but when the gold rises higher
and higher until she is completely hidden
from my sight, she cries, ' Save me, Marguerite,
save me ! ' As I am brushing the
gold away, a church bell tolls the hour ;
one, two, three, four, and then these words
come to me at intervals : —

' Do not let it trouble you Better
my slave than yours She shall be a
queen ! . . . . Her clothes ? . . . . Twenty
gold pieces ! Well, I don't bargain. Cut
again.'

*' And now I am visited by a terrible
fancy. Our master approaches Clarice,
and is about to clasp her in his arms, when
the gentleman with whom he has been
playing advances to him threateningly. I
also make an effort to protect Clarice, but
I cannot move. I am bound to earth by
an unseen agency. I struggle against it,
but am unable to rise. A vapour floats
across my face, and robs me of the power
of thought. All surrounding objects slip
from me; I hear nothing, see nothing
nothing. I am as one dead to the

world.

* * * 4^ «

'' It was late in the morning before I
woke, and then I found myself lying on a
couch in a better furnished room than the
one we had occupied at the top of the
house. The apartment was in semi-darkness,
and the woman who had visited us
on the previous night was looking down
upon me. My mind was not yet quite
clear ; my head ached, and my senses were
in a strange state of confusion. I gazed
at the woman in bewilderment ; she gave
me a wicked smile, and I noticed that my
ordinary clothes were hanging on her arm.

' Quality hours, mistress,' lie said
tauntingly, and her voice brought to my
mind a full remembrance of her treacherous
conduct towards my sister and myself.


I turned to speak to Clarice, and saw
to my dismay that she was not by my side,
nor in the room.

' Where is my sister ? ' I cried, springing
to my feet.

'' The woman did not answer the
question.

'' ' Do you know what time it is ? ' she
said. ' It is an hour past noon. What
are you about to do, mistress ? '

' I am going to my sister,' I replied.

She barred the way, and I could not
pass her.

' You cannot leave the room in your
stage dress. It would not be becoming.'

' Where is my sister ? ' I asked, again.

* Safe enough, no doubt,' she answered.
Here are your clothes. Take off those
silk trappings ; they are mine.'

"yours!'

'eyes, mine. I bought them of your
master, and paid for them.'

' He sent you to me ? '

' I should not have come without
orders. I am not in love with you,
pretty as you think you are. Dress
yourself quickly ; your master is waiting
for you.'

'' With feverish haste I tore off my fine
stage dress, and put on my common
clothes.

' Now,' I said, ' take me to my
master.'

'All in good time, my lady she said,
proceeding leisurely to fold up my stage
dress ; ' I must be careful of my property.
I'll hire a dancing-girl of my own, and
make money out of her. It would have
been wise in you to have made me your
friend.'

*' My anxiety concerning Clarice was
too deep to permit of my wrangling with
the woman, who seemed to derive pleasure
by prolonging my suspense. Presently
she bade me follow her, and she led the
way to a room where my master was
sitting with an empty wine-bottle before
him. His eyes were bloodshot, and his
appearance was that of a man who had
been for a long time without rest.

' Oh, you have come at last ! ' he exclaimed,

with a frown. ' You are a faithful
servant, detaining me here for hours !
We ought to have been ten miles on the
road by this time.'

'' ' We are going to leave the town,
then ? ' I said, looking round for Clarice.

'' He replied with a storm of curses upon
the place and every person in it. ''I wish
I had broken my neck before I came into
the cursed hole ! May fire seize it, and
burn it to ashes ! Come.'

'' ' I am ready. Where is Clarice ? '

He was prepared with his answer.
She has gone before us. If we are not
sharp, we shall not overtake her.'

' Gone before us ! ' I echoed, struggling
inwardly with a f faintness which oppressed
me, like the faintness of death. ' Alone 1 '

' No ; with a friend, who offered me a
seat for her in a waggon that was going
our road. I am careful of my girls, you
see.'

« You entrusted Clarice to a stranger !
My sister, who has never been parted from
me for an hour ! "

' Why not ? It is time she learnt to
depend more upon herself. She will not
break, not being made of glass. If we

delay much longer, we shall not reach her
to-night.'

'' ' Swear to me that you are speaking
the truth.'

He crossed his heart, half in jest, half
in earnest. ' I swear. And now let me
have no more of your airs. Remember
that you are my servant.'

'' ' I do remember,' I said, gazing
steadily at him. ' If you are deceiving
me, may your life be blighted and your
death accursed ! '

' You may try my patience too far.
Ask quickly what other questions you
have to ask, and make an end of this.'

' Where are the gentlemen with whom
you were gambling last night ? '

' In the devil's clutches, I hope ! '

'' ' Are they here now, and do they belong
to this place ? '

' They do not belong to the town,
and they left it at sunrise. Is that the
last?'

' Yes ; I am ready. Let us go.'

*' We went into the street, and at a signal
from my master a small covered cart drew
up. No person in the hotel took the
slightest notice of us.

VOL. I. N

' Clarice could have accompanied us,'
I said, ' as we are to ride.'

'' ' I£ you were not eaten up with suspicion,'
said my master, ' you would see
that there is barely room for ourselves.
Besides, when I sent Clarice off this
morning, I thought you and I would have
had to walk. You are grateful for kindness
! '

'''It is not without cause that I am
suspicious. Shall we be certain to come
up to Clarice to-night ? '

' Not if we stand babbling here all
day.'

' Forgive me ; tell the man to drive
quickly ; we may overtake her on the
road.'

"My master in a low tone gave instructions
to the driver, and then assisted me
into the cart. He arranged some straw
for me to lie upon, and seating himself at
the back of the conveyance, drew the
canvas hood close, so that we were hidden
from the people in the streets. The driver
sat in front, and I crouched down behind
him, in such a position that I could see the
road before us. We drove fast, and were
soon out of the town. The driver did not

speak to me, nor I to him, nor did lie turn
even to look at me. The paths we traversed
were desolate and lonely, and the
few human beings we saw tramping along
were forlorn and wretched-looking. When
we were twelve or fourteen miles from the
town we came to a poverty-stricken inn,
and the man stopped to give his horse food
and water. My master got out to drink,
and brought me some bread and cheese,
which I could not eat. I so begrudged
every moment of delay, that I fretted
myself almost into a fever at the stoppage.
If I had had money I would have given it
to the man as a bribe not to linger ; having
none, nor anything of value about me, no
course was open to me but to wait for
events. With what eagerness and anxiety
did I now examine every conveyance we
met and passed, asking my master if that
or that was the conveyance which contained
Clarice ! He had but one answer
for me, ' Into.' He did not take the trouble
to look up, and towards the evening he
pretended to fall asleep, and spoke to meno
more. I had plenty of time for thought,
but, strive as I would, I could not recall
events in intelligible sequence. All that
N 2

had passed during the last twenty-four
hours was blurred and indistinct, and I
found it impossible, although my mind was
clearer now, to separate fancy from reality.
One indelible impression, however, remained
that by some mysterious means I had
been rendered unconscious, and that the
sleep into which I had fallen was not
naturally produced. I would not allow
myself to get further than this ; every
suspicion that presented itself to me, based
upon this conviction, I rejected with fierce
vehemence. Evening passed, and night
came on, and still no sign of Clarice ; but
my master had held out no hope that wo
should overtake her on the road. Wo
must have ridden a great distance, for the
driver did not spare his horse. On wo
drove, through the gloomy night, until wo
reached a small village, the few inhabitants
of which had retired to rest. Every house
was in darkness ; not a sound was to be
heard. We stopped at an inn, the driver
jumped down, and my master assisted me
to the ground.

"ewe shall rest here to-night,' ho
said.

' Then Clarice is within ?' I asked.

' Slip ought to be,' replied my master,
knocking loudly at the door.

'' The driver, after receiving some money
from my master, jumped on to his cart
and drove away. My master and I were
alone.

"In a few moments a fair-faced lout,
but half-dressed, opened the door, and
stood in the doorway, holding up a lamp
to our faces.

' What do you want ? ' he asked.

' To rest here to-night,' said my
master; 'we can pay for our accommodation.'


'' ' Enter.'

He made way for us, and I ran in,
calling ' Clarice ! Clarice ! '

' Is the girl mad ? ' exclaimed the landlord.
' Cease that noise ; you will wake
my children.'

'' ' She is calling for her sister,' said my
master.

' There is no sister of hers here.'

' Who is in the house ? ' asked my
master.

' Xo one but my wife and our
children.'

' Did not a waggon stop here this

evening, bringing a young woman, about
sixteen years of age, who was to remain
until we arrived ? '

' Nothing of the sort. No waggon
with a young woman has stopped at the
house.'

' But one might have passed.'

' A dozen might have passed for all I
know. What will you have to eat ? '

'' ' Anything you have got ; and bring
me a bottle of red wine.'

I was almost paralyzed with fear as
I listened to this dialogue. My master
put his questions in a careless tone, and
received the answers with unconcern.
What construction, but one that it maddened
me to think of, could I place upon
the situation in which I found myself?
Clarice not here ! Torn from me, her
only protector, herself a child, ignorant
of the world's ways ! — I confronted my
master.

' Explain this to me,' I said.

His face grew dark with passion.
Speak to me in a proper tone, Margaret.'


' Tell me what this means ! ' I implored.


'''That is better,' he said. 'I made
arrangements that the three of us should
start early this morning. I sent to rouse
you half a dozen times, and each time the
woman came back, saying she could not
wake you. That was no fault of mine.
Opportunity offering, I thought it best to
send Clarice before us, as, in consequence
of the lateness of the hour, I supposed our
journey might be beyond her strength. I
gave instructions to my friend the waggoner
that if 'night fell before he reached this
village he was to leave Clarice at this
inn ; but if he had time, he was to go onto
the next village, where I intend to put
up for a day or two. As Clarice is not
here, we shall find her further on. That
is all.'

' That is not all,' I said, my heart almost
bursting out of my bosom ; ' you are concealing
something from me.'

' Think what you please,' he retorted,
shrugging his shoulders ; ' it will not help
you or Clarice. Do not mistake me —
beyond certain limits you shall not go, without
being made to feel it. I have been too
easy with you hitherto.'

' I do not want to make you angry,'

I said humbly, subdued by the terror of the
situation. 'I know it will not help me. I
only ask that Clarice shall be given back tome
! I will work for you day and night —
there is no task you set me to do that I will
not perform ; you shall never hear another
rebellious word from my lips ; indeed,
indeed, no slave could be more submissive
to you than I will be, if you will take me
to my sister ! '

' I am glad to hear you speak in that
manner,' said my master. ' You have
defied me too long, and I have borne it
too quietly. Remain submissive and
obedient ; it will be best for you. There
is no doubt we shall see Clarice tomorrow.
You have discovered, my girl,
who is the strongest. Here is the landlord,
with food and wine. Eat and drink.
Obey me.'

What could I do ? What cou I do ?
Keep my agony to myself, conceal my
fears, and endeavour to soften the heart of
this man, who held me as completely in his
power as though I were bound to him by
an iron chain ! With tears running down
my face I sat by his side, and ate a few
morsels of food, endeavouring in a hundred

small ways to awaken some human sympathy
in his breast for my almost unbearable
sufferings.

'^ ' What time shall we start in the morning
? ' I asked.

'' ' At eight o'clock.'

' Let us start at seven,' I implored.

'''Yon shall be humoured, Margaret;
at seven, then.'

' How can I thank you ? Is it far to
the next village ? '

' Eighteen miles ; and we shall have
to walk. You will need all your strength

Ah ! he was cunning in his villainy.
He turned my misery against myself, and
made me feel that if I opposed his wishes
I should prove myself an enemy to my
sister. Our meal being finished, the landlord
informed me that he had only one
spare bedroom, which my master could
occupy, and that I could sleep with his
children. He showed me to the bedroom
where his little girls were sleeping. Before
leaving me, he stooped over the bed and
kissed their pretty faces, and this natural
and tender action flooded my eyes with
fresh tears. I was so utterly alone — in a
world of strangers, with no link of human

love but Clarice, who had been torn from
me ! I thought of her desolation and
despair at our separation, and of the unhappy
night she was passing. She was
awake, as I was, thinking of me, as I was
of her. A small clock in a wooden case
was on the mantlepiece, and I watched the
hands until watching became a torture,
they moved so slowly. Then I sank to
my knees, and prayed, and with my
thoughts concentrated upon the necessity
of waking early, I fell into an uneasy
slumber.

'eat five o'clock in the morning I Alas
standing outside the inn, in the light of
the early sunrise. The presage of a fine
day comforted me a little. ' I shall see
Clarice soon,' I thought with gladness ;
I shall see Clarice soon ! ' And I mentally
vowed that, when she was once more
within the shelter of my arms, nothing but
death should ever again separate us.
Never again should I be caught sleeping
at my post. The place I was in was
strange to me; I had no knowledge of
the roads by which we had reached it,
nor in which direction we should wend
our way to Clarice. The conviction that

if I were left to myself I should be lost
for ever was one of the acutest miseries of
my position. I had absolutely no dependence
but my master. ' There is no doubt
wee shall see Clarice tomorrow,' he had
said. To-morrow had come, and in a few
hours my sufferings would be over. I
walked to a field, and picking a few wildflowers,
made two posies, one for the landlord's
children, and one for my master. I
must meet cunning with cunning. I
placed the children's posy in their room,
and I gave the smaller bunch of flowers
to my master, who was by this time awake
and up. He received them with a smile,
not of thankfulness, but of triumph, and
stuck them in his hat.

'' ' You are growing sensible, Margaret,'
he said.

*' At seven o'clock, true to his promise,
we started, and within an hour two lumbering
vehicles passed us, going our road.
I eyed them wistfully.

' Can we not ride ? ' I asked.

* All my money has gone,' he replied ;
I have barely enough to keep us for the
week. We will ride and welcome, if you
will pay for it.'

<c c

Alas ! ' I said ; ' I have nothing.'
I was foolish enough to look wistfully
along the road, in the absurd hope that a
kind Providence would place a piece of
gold there, to help us more quickly on the
way. On and on we walked, he often
lagging behind to try my patience ; but I
uttered no word of complaint. Before
noon, there was a change in the weather ;
dark clouds had gathered, and the rain
began to fall heavily. I was for walking
on, heedless of the storm ; my master
would not have it so. He stopped at the
first hut we reached, and sought shelter
within. This caused a delay of three or
four hours, for he was deaf to all my entreaties,
saying there was time enough,
and that we should arrive at our destination
by night. In the afternoon we started
again, the rain being over, and shortly
after nightfall our weary walk was done.
There were many houses and people in the
village, and it was altogether more important
than the one we had left behind.
Clarice is there ! ' I whispered to myself.
Thank Grod, we shall presently be together.'
And I said aloud to my master, —
' Where shall we find my sister ? '

'' ' At the Salutation Inn ! '

'' ' Have sou been in this place before ? '

'* ' Once, years ago. My friend told me
be knew the inn well.'

His ready answers confirmed my
hopes ; I had tortured myself with needless
fears.

' We cannot put up at the Salutation
he said ; ' we must seek cheaper accommodation.
My purse has little enough in
it.'

There was no difficulty in discovering
what he sought — a poor inn, frequented
by the needy.

' This will suit,' he said, ' and I daresay
we can raise a little money by our
performances. Remain here ; I will bring
Clarice to you.'

'* He would not allow me to accompany
him. Alone he went ; alone he returned.
His face was troubled, his manner confused,
and I did not pause to consider whether
he had schooled himself into this expression
of feeling.

"great God!' I cried, 'where is
Clarice ? '

' She has not been seen,' he replied
suddenly. ' I do not understand it. Why

should lie have taken it into her head to
run away from so loving a sister ? '

The truth flashed upon me in a moment.
We had been betrayed.

' You villain ! ' I exclaimed. ' You
shameless villain ! 0, that I were a man,
to punish you for your treachery ! '

CHAPTER X.

MARGARET TIGHTENS THE CHAINS WHICH BIND
HER TO SLAVERY.

'^ Or what passed between us immediately
after this I have but an indistinct remembrance,
my agitation was so great. I
know that one moment I accused my
master of the blackest treachery, and the
next entreated him upon my knees to tell
me where I could find Clarice ; I know that
he made lame attempts at explanation,
which I refused to accept, and that in the
end he struck me, and forcing me into a
small room, turned the key upon me.
There was a bed in the room, but I did
not seek repose ; through that long, long
night I sat in the dark, or walked about
the room, asking myself what I could do
to rescue my sister, and what motive my
master could have had in getting rid of
one who was useful and profitable to him.

I could find no answers to mj torturing
questions. All that I could do was to
suffer and wait,

In the morning my master came to the
door.

'' ' Are you up ? ' lie called.

' Yes,' I answered.

'' He unlocked the door. I ran out to
him ; there was still a lingering hope.
Clarice might have arrived during the
night.

' Has she come ? ' I cried eagerly.
Have you heard anything of her ? '

' I have heard nothing of her.' He
looked at me keenly. ' You have not
slept.'

'* ' How could I sleep in such agony and
suspense as I am suffering ? '

^' ' It will not help you to find Chalices
he said.

' I wish I could die ! ' I exclaimed despairingly.


' That will not help you to find
Clarice.'

' You really mean it ? ' I implored.
You wish to find her ? You will try to
find her ? '

'' ' Without doubt I shall, unless you

continue to thwart me. You are a bad
reasoner, Margaret. Did not Clarice put
money in my pocket, and did you ever
know me go against my own interests ?'

He lead breakfast placed before me,
and stood over me while I forced myself
to eat; indeed, I was compelled to eat,
having partaken of so little food during
the last two days. Then he bade me
accompany him, and to my surprise took
me to the office of a magistrate, where he
made a formal complaint of the abduction
of Clarice, his apprentice. He gave a
minute description of Clarice, and of the
man into whose care he had confided her,
of the waggon which conveyed her away, of
his instructions to the man, of his inability
to discover any trace of him, and of my
prostration and grief at my sister's disappearance.
I listened in amazement. He
spoke with such an assumption of sincerity
and sorrow that it was scarcely possible fora
stranger to disbelieve him.

His statement was taken down in
writing, and he was informed that the law
could not assist him until be discovered
the person into whose charge he had given
his apprentice.

VOL. I.

* It shall be the business of my life to
find and punish him said my master, ' and
to restore Clarice to the arms of her unhappy
sister.'

'* The magistrate complimented him
upon his humanity, and me upon having so
kind-hearted a master and guardian. He
was, indeed, too strong and cunning forme.


When we left the magistrate's office,
my master said, —

'' 'Margaret, it is time we came to an
understanding. You did not sleep last
night. Why ? '

' I am very unhappy,' I replied, ' and
I could not sleep.'

' You passed the time in thinking
what it was best for you to do to find
Clarice?'

"eyes.'

' I also have been thinking seriously
of that — as I have proved by my visit
to the magistrate this morning — and of
the relations in which you and I stand to
each other. They do not satisfy me.'

'' ' Neither do they satisfy me.'

' You do not trust me.'

I was silent ; with Clarice in my mind,

I felt it would not be prudent to anger
him too far.

' It is clear that you are determined
not to do me justice, and that you are
tired of me. Well, I am also getting tired
of you. You pine for liberty. I give it
to you. Do you understand me ? '

' Not quite,' I replied, with inward
fear.

' Yet it is not difficult. I have a
legal claim upon you by which I can
compel you to work for me until you are
twenty-one years of age ; I am willing to
relinquish that claim. You look upon
your servitude with me as a kind of
bondage; I offer you release from a
hateful slavery. If you so decide it, you
are free to go. I shall require you to
sign a paper to the effect that you leave
me of your own accord, and that you will
never trouble me again ; and this night,
if you wish, shall terminate our partnership.'


*' I was so confounded by this unexpected
proposal, made apparently in a
frank spirit, that I could not find words
to reply.

' I intend,' continued my master, ' to


have this matter settled immediately. I
will no longer put up with your whims
and caprices. I give you till six o'clock
to reflect and decide ; if before that time
you do not come to me, either to agree to
my offer or to promise to be more submissive
to me in the future. I will take effectual
means to rid myself of you. You
have sense as well as spirit, and I think
you can see that I am in earnest.'

' If I resolve to leave you,' I said,
will you give me a small sum of money
to help me on ? '

' Not the smallest coin,' he replied,
*and for the best of all reasons — I am
absolutely a beggar.'

'* ' And I should never see you more ? '

' Never, if I could help it.'

' Would you continue your search for
ray sister ? '

'' ' Certainly.'

' And if you found her ? '

I paused, in great agitation. Never
till this moment had I realized how completely
this man held me in his power.

** He repeated my words.

"rand if I found her? Well?"

' Would you restore her to me ? '

^' ' You must think me a dull-brained
idiot, indeed ! Clarice is worth her weight
in gold to me.'

*' ' You know that my heart, my life, are
bound up in Clarice, and by force you
would keep her from me ? '

' Still unreasonable, Margaret,' he
said in a cold tone of displeasure. ' It is
not I who would keep her by force from
you ; it is you who, by your own deliberate
act, will decree the separation. A little
reflection will lead you to a clearer
view of the case. You have told me innumerous
offensive ways that I am acting
the part of a tyrant to you ; I am, after
all, a man of feeling — that is, I am not
entirely a log of wood, without sensation.
Matters have gone on most unpleasantly
for many months, until at length they have
come to a crisis, and I offer you what you
sigh for, your freedom. Upon this, you
accuse me of further cruelty. There is no
pleasing or satisfying you, one way or
another, and I am resolved that our relations
shall come to an end or be placed
upon a better footing. What is more, I
will have no trickery. You have six hours
before you for decision. I shall remain

about the inn till six o'clock ; if you do
not come to me before that hour is passed,
I shall adopt what course I deem best.'

' If,' I said timidly, ' I, being alone,
should by some good fortune find Clarice,
would you take her from me ? '

'' ' She is my apprentice, and I can claim
her whenever I have the opportunity. I
can give you up more easily than I could
Clarice. But make your mind easy.
Without my aid, your chances of ever
seeing Clarice again would not be worth a
breath of air.'

By this time we had reached the inn,
and there my master left me. 1 entered the
room in which I had been made a prisoner
the previous night, and endeavoured to
think ; but my mind was in a whirl, and
the narrow space seemed to add to my
confusion. 1 went into the open, and
under the better influence of sweet air,
which cooled my hot face, and bright skies,
which whispered hope and comfort, I
schooled myself into a calmer mood. I
did not forget that the good Lord was
over all, and that faith in Him would
surely help me in my great trouble. I
bowed my head and prayed, and my mind

became clearer. That my master would
be as good as his word, and would give me
my freedom if I wished, I saw no reason to
doubt ; I was not so certain that he really
wished to rid himself of me, for if he
desired it, he could do so without difficulty,
by simply leaving me on the road. It
forced itself upon me that by accepting his
offer of liberty I should be depriving myself
of the only link that might lead me to
Clarice. It might be that the entire affair
was a trick — that he himself had planned
the separation, and had conducted matters
to their present crisis, so that I should of
my own doing destroy any claim I had
upon him, and leave him free to travel with
Clarice wherever he wished. I shuddered
at the thought. Helpless, friendless as I
was, the reflection that absolutely my only
chance of finding Clarice was by remaining
with my master and keeping watch over
him, grew gradually into a conviction.
To beat despairingly against the bars
would not assist me — coolness, watchfulness,
submission might. Upon this decision
I acted at once. I sought my
master, and found him, as usual, playing
cards with two or three village louts. He

threw up the cards and came to me at
once.

*' ' I have made np my mind,' I said.

'' ' To what effect ? '

' To remain with you.'

' And be submissive ? '

"eyes.'

'' ' You are wise, in your own interest,
perhaps not so much in mine. But I ama
man always prepared to do my duty.
I have drawn up two papers, in one of
which you ask for your freedom and I give
it to you, on the condition that you never
trouble me again. That, I tear up.' He
did so. ' This other paper is to the effect
that you bind yourself afresh to me, that,
in full knowledge of all the circumstances
that have passed, you are satisfied that my
conduct is that of an honourable man, and
that you promise to obey me in all reasonable
ways. Will you sign it ? '

'' ' Yes. You will do your best to recover
Clarice ? '

' I promise you.'

'' He called the landlord to witness my
signature, and thus I bound myself afresh
to an abhorred slavery.

From that time to this I have never

seen Clarice, nor am I acquainted with the
smallest detail of her life since we were so
cruelly, so wickedly parted. My master
and I travelled from place to place in the
old way, and he made what use he could
of the gifts I possess. By my services we
have managed to live in a poor fashion ;
we might, I doubt not, have done better
so far as the earning of money goes, but
my master appears to have lost all spirit
since the fatal night from which my
thoughts never wander. He lays the
blame upon Clarice, and says that she has
ruined his career. For the first few
months my master used to come to me
with accounts of rumours he had heard
that a girl answering to the description of
Clarice had been seen in such or such a
place, and to that place we made all haste,
to learn that the rumours were false. My
master insists upon it that Clarice has been
stolen and sold to some travelling company,
the manager of which takes pains to
avoid us, or that she is now in another
country, entirely out of our reach. Lately
he has treated me more harshly than he
has ever done before, and a dozen times
a day tells me I am the curse of his life.

But although I am frightened of him it
seems to me that I must remain with him
until he casts me from him, or until I am
dead. It is the only way in which I can
prove that I am faithful to Clarice. Weare
now without food or money, and he
told me this afternoon that he could not
afford to pay for lodgment for us to-night.
That is why I am staying in this forest,
living upon a hope that is dead, and
tempted to believe that it would be better
for me to put an end to my life than linger
on in this state of exquisite suffering. It
is impossible for me to say whether my
master's story that Clarice has been stolen
from us is true or false ; it is impossible
for me to know whether he has ever uttered
one word of truth with relation to my dear,
my darling sister, and whether he has not
led me from place to place upon invented
rumours. My cup of sorrow is full, and
I do not know which way to turn for a
crumb of comfort."

CHAPTER XL

WELCOME TO THE SILVER ISLE.

This," said Matthew Sylvester to those
inhabitants of the Silver Isle whom he had
chosen to hear the story of Margaret, " is
the account I received from Margaret's
lips of her trials and sufferings. As I
have told you, I wrote it down at her
dictation in after times, with but little
alteration, so that some record should be
kept of what struck me as a very pitiful
and pathetic story. As I listened to her
that night in the forest my sympathy
for her was great. Every word she
uttered bore the impress of truth, and
only a thoroughly good woman could have
expressed such unselfish love and devotion
as she expressed for Clarice. Many
times in the course of the narration did
she stop and listen, thinking she heard the
step or the voice of her master, but lie did

not make his appearance, and she finished
her story without interruption. If I had
not already gathered from her description
of her master that he was in heart and
soul an irreclaimable scoundrel, I should
have known it from the fact of his leaving
a young girl like Margaret alone and unprotected
in such a lonely spot ; it was the
act of a man devoid of common humanity.
But I had formed my idea of him long
before Margaret had finished, and my
experience of human nature enabled me to
arrive nearer to the truth with respect to
his dealing with Clarice than Margaret
could or dared suspect. With a true pity
for the forlorn and desolate girl, I made up
my mind to rescue her from her perilous
and wretched position. I asked her if,
when her master left her, he had promised
soon to return, but she could give
no information beyond that he said he was
going into the town to endeavour to get
food or money. Upon that I pointed out
to her that it was not likely he would
return before morning, and that the best
thing she could do would be to accompany
me to the inn, and accept of my protection.
At first I could not persuade her; she

feared ill-treatment in case her master
returned and did not find her. I pledged
her my word that she should not be ill-treated,
and said that my son and I would
protect her.

' I know more of the law than you do,'
I said, 'and I am convinced that I can release
you from the tyranny of this villain.
That it is your best course to leave him I
am satisfied — as satisfied as I am that, if
you remain with him till death severs the
connection, you will never hear one true
word from his lips concerning your sister.'

Her tears flowed at this bitter but
necessary assurance, and I stood by her
side in silence while she debated within
herself. Suddenly she turned her eyes full
upon my face, and said, —

' Why do soli urge me to this ? You
have never seen me before. What motive
have you for wishing me to leave my
master ? '

Margaret is a woman with a straight
mind, friends, as you will discover for yourselves
if we remain with you. I was pleased
at this rough frankness.

'My child,' I said to her in reply, ' I have
a sincere pity for you; you have stirred my

heart. That in itself would be a sufficient
motive, but I have a more selfish one. My
son and I, leading just such a wandering life
as you have done, would find it lightened
and made happier if we had a woman with
us. I can see many pleasant pictures in the
companionship. I will be a father to you,
my son shall be your brother. It is certain
you will receive from us affection and fair
treatment. You will earn your bread as we
do. You will not be a slave ; you will be
free to go if you find our company distasteful
to you. We travel into parts of
the country where it is more likely you will
learn something of your sister, if there is
anything to learn, than you can possibly do
in your present circumstances. For the
rest, if you cannot read sincerity in my face
I am powerless to convince you of my
honesty of purpose.'

*' She placed her hand in mine, and
saying she would trust me, accompanied
me to the inn, where I made arrangements
for her repose. I was up early in the
morning, in the confident expectation of
seeing Margaret's master. Surely enough,
he accosted me the moment I put my face
outside the inn door.

*' ' Yon brought a girl called Margaret
here last night,' he said.

' I did I replied. ' I brought her
from the forest, where you had left her
without food or protection. You cannot
justify yourself.'

' I am not called upon to do so by
you,' he retorted. ' T did not leave her
alone for longer than a quarter of an
hour.'

'' ' An untruth,' I said ; ' but that is not
to the point. I intend to take Margaret
from your charge. You are not fit to have
the care of a young girl, and this one shall
no longer remain with you.'

I spoke boldly, knowing it was the
only way with such a man as he.

' How do you propose to deprive me
of my property ? ' he asked, with a covert
look at me, measuring my power, as it
were.

'* ' By purchase,' I said ; ' and if that is
not to your liking, by means which will
place you in the clutches of the law.
You are not in flourishing circumstances.
How much for the release of this
girl ? Not, mark you, that I acknowledge
your right to her. I can prove the contrary,

or a lawyer can do it for me ; but I
am willing to settle the matter amicably,
without the aid of a third person. Name
a sum, and let it be small, or you will get
nothing, for the release of Margaret. Such
a man as yourself does not want to be
encumbered with a woman who hates and
fears you. Name your price, and try your
luck with it at the nearest gaming-table.'

'' He caught at the bait, and named a sum
not beyond my means. I agreed to pay it to
him, and Ave adjourned for the purpose of
drawing up such an agreement as I considered
binding. I saw that the fellow was
tired of Margaret, and that, setting aside
a small feeling of personal vindictiveness
which belonged to his mean nature, he was
glad of the opportunity of ridding himself
of her on terms so favourable. So as to
place Margaret entirely out of his power I
went to a notary, and had the agreement
attested ; in effect, it was a transfer of
apprenticeship, by which for a certain sum
Margaret's master relinquished all claim
upon her future services. This business
concluded, I said to the man, —

* It is not likely you or I will ever
meet again ; if we are in the same neighbourhood,

we shall be glad to avoid each
other. Do one gracious act. Tell me
what has become of Clarice, and whether
I can adopt any means to bring her and
Margaret together.'

He eyed me narrowly, and said, ' I will
sell what I know.'

' You have some information to give,
then?'

'' ' I have.'

'^ I took from my pocket a gold piece,
and offered it to him, but the wretch was
greedy, and haggled ; however, by diplomatic
conduct, I convinced him that I
would give no more, and he agreed to
accept it.

' How I know what I know,' he said,
is my secret, which no man can buy.
Only in one way can Margaret and Clarice
ever be brought together again.*

' Tell it me.'

' Death's way. Clarice is dead.'

' You are not lying ? ' I asked, shocked
and startled by the news, and by the
callous tone in which it was conveyed.

'' ' I have no purpose to serve. The
girl is dead.'

* When did this occur ? '

VOL. I. P

'' ' Shortly after Clarice's disappearance.
I learnt it by accident.'

' Why did you not tell Margaret ? '

'' ' I should have lost my hold upon her ;
there would have been no bearing with
her. She has troubled me enough.'

I could get no further information
from him, and we parted, never to meet
again.

*' I determined to keep the news from
Margaret, at least for a time. All that I
told her upon my return to the inn was
that she was free, and that her master had
no further claim upon her. I was glad to
see that lie and Paul had already become
friends.

' You are now your own mistress,' I
said, ' and are at liberty to decide for
yourself. Will you join us ? We shall
soon discover whether we suit each
other.'

'' She replied that she was happy in the
prospect I held out to her, and so the
compact was made.

The companionship was in every
respect agreeable, and we continued our
wandering life, living from hand to mouth,
seldom grumbling at the bad fortune

wliicli pursued us and kept our pockets
empty. There were others worse off than
we were. It is a hard world out there,
friends ; harder for the weak than the
strong — harder, I believe, for the pure at
heart than the cunning ones who avoid
the straight path upon which the full sunlight
shines.

Then happened a natural thing. In
the springtime of life love-buds prepare to
blossom. Margaret and Paul were drawn
to each other, and sometimes, unconscious
to themselves, walked hand-in-hand. It
gladdened me to watch the growth of love
between two beings who were dear to me ;
for the more I learned of Margaret's
nature the better I appreciated her, and
the stronger grew my respect and admiration
for her character. Never for an hour
did she forget Clarice ; the dear name was
constantly on her lips. In the midst of
her enjoyment of the passing time she
would pause and sigh : ' Ah, if Clarice
were here ! ' and would reproach herself for
feeling light-hearted in the absence of her
beloved sister. Often did I ask myself
whether it would not be more merciful to
acquaint her with the truth, and as often
p 2

did I shrink from the sad task. She had
one intense desire — to visit once more the
town in which Clarice had been torn from
her ; but her description of the place was
so vague that it was long before we were
enabled to decide in what direction it lay.
The moment we ascertained with some
degree of certainty, we directed our steps
thitherward. At the same time I resolved
that when we reached that abode of sad
memories I would inform Margaret of her
sister's death. We arrived in the town,
and at Margaret's request I made inquiries
after Clarice. I might as well have spoken
in an unknown tongue. Not a soul remembered
her, or could give the slightest
information with respect to her. The town
was a fashionable one, frequented by
tourists chiefly of the better class, who
flowed in and out like a constant tide. We
stayed there for three days, and when we
had left it behind us, I gently broke the
melancholy news to Margaret. I cannot
describe her grief ; it was so sharp and
despairing as to cause me for a time to fear
for her reason. Had she not been with us,
I believe she would have sought relief in
death. But love and sympathy lightened

her sorrow, and in the course of time
she grew calmer. She will never forget
Clarice. Old as she may live to be, the
memory of that dearly-beloved sister will
never fade from her mind.

Friends, I have but little more to say.
Margaret returned Paul's love, and they
were married. Fortune, as I have told
you, has not been kind to us, and Margaret,
who will soon become a mother,
yearned for a more peaceful life. Many
a time did I describe to her the sweet
repose I enjoyed here in my youthful days,
and at length decided to come and ask you
to receive us. It may be that the restless
career we have led may have unsettled
us for the quiet life of this lovely isle.
But let us try. Briefly let me say —
not in praise of ourselves, but as simple
matters of truth— that Margaret is a
woman who deserves to be loved, and that
since I last bade you farewell I have done
no act which should make me ashamed
to grasp the hands of old comrades in

friendship."

* * *

The islanders had listened to Matthew
Sylvester's story in silence and with earnest

attention, and now that his recital was
finished, they rose and said, —

'' Resume your old-life place among us.
We welcome you and yours, Matthew
Sylvester."

CHAPTER XII.

margaret's dtaey, written in the silver

ISLE.

After a lapse of eight peaceful years
the wound I received when a girl by the
loss of my darling Clarice, and which, but
for my dear husband and his father, would
assuredly have caused my death, has been
suddenly and strangely torn open. Not
that it is possible I could ever forget Clarice.
No ; to the last hour of my life she will be
with me in spirit, loved and mourned. But
the love of my family and the wise counsel
of Matthew Sylvester, whom I now call
father, have brought to my soul a resignation
which has contributed to my enjoyment
of life and has enabled me to fulfil its duties.
The living have claims upon me as well as
the dead. My husband, Paul, our father,
he good Matthew, and my two dear children,
Joseph and Gabrielle, are with me.

filling my life with cares and joys ; and now
there is another, a stranger, a child called
Evangeline, who has made my heart bleed
afresh. At times I feel that my dear sister
is by my side, and that I have but to turn,
to clasp her once more in my arms, and to
hear her sweet voice address me by the
name of Marguerite.

'' It is night. Our children and Evangeline
are asleep ; my husband and father
are absent, and will not be home till late.
I have often intended, for my own guidance,
to place upon paper a brief statement of
the events affecting myself that have
occurred during my residence in this place,
together with impressions and fancies
which have strongly affected me. I will
take advantage of the present opportunity,
and will write down as clearly as I am able
a statement of what has passed since I first
set foot upon the shores of the Silver Isle.

'' From my window I can see the fateful
mountain with its snow-clad crown,
shunned by all on the isle, because of the
fearful story connected with it. The
legend of Evangeline and the two brothers
was related to me soon after my arrival on
the isle ; I was strangely fascinated by it.

By some untenable process of thought I
connected the fate of Evangeline with that
of my dear sister Clarice ; there is no explainable
reason for the connection, except
that they were both young and fair and
dearly beloved, and met their fate through
treachery. Looking out now, I see a
shadow moving up the heights. I cannot
clearly discern the figure, but I know it to
be the shadow of Ran the deformed, who
brought the child Evangeline to this peaceful
land, and left her in my care. No
other being would have the courage to
tread the upward path.

"I think, but for my urging, we should
have remained in the old world, and
at this present moment be following our
wandering life. But the accounts of this
isle related to me from time to time by
Matthew Sylvester took a powerful hold
of my imagination. The land he described
was more like dreamland than reality, and
it was at my earnest solicitation we came.
I was harassed by the uncertainties of our
career; our fortunes were too often at a
low ebb, and I expected in a few months
to become 'a mother. I thought it would
be a happy augury for my child to be born

in a land of peace, within hail of kind souls
who, if anything happened to me, would,
for the sake of Matthew, protect the innocent
being from the storms of the world.
So with many a sigh (for there had been
happiness as well as anxiety in our days)
we bade adieu to old associations, and
turned our faces thitherward.

The manner in which we were received
did not please me, and I was beset by
fears that I had been unwise in my desire.
The isle was fair and beautiful, but there
was a restraint in the bearing of the
islanders, who, while welcoming Matthew
Sylvester and my husband as friends having
a claim upon them, appeared to regard
me with coldness. Stranger as I was, I
expected that they would immediately hold
out to me the cordial hand, because of my
relations with the Sylvesterss. In this I
was unreasonable. It was natural that
they should wait to learn from personal
experience whether I was worthy of their
friendship, which, as I now know, once
given is never withdrawn without just
cause. The men and women of this isle
are of a more simple and therefore higher
nature than those of the countries in which

my life lead hitherto been passed. They
do not live only for the hour ; the interest
they take in each other is earnest and
enduring, and I hold them in high regard.
The feeling is mutual, I hope, but before I
was satisfied of its existence on their part,
I was unhappy.

The fault was in myself. I held my
feelings in reserve, and even when the
women came to me, on the first night of
our arrival, with gifts of food and offers
of assistance, I received them, I am afraid,
in an ungracious spirit. They did not,
however, relax in their kind endeavours
to make me feel at home among them.
Still I was not softened ; I experienced a
kind of resentment at the thought that
I was in a certain way on my trial before
the islanders. I expressed this to my
husband.

' It will be honest, Paul, that I should
show them the worst side of my nature.
They will not then be able to say that I
practised deceit.'

' Be yourself, Margaret,' replied my
husband ; ' what you feel, show. Of all
the places in the world, this is the last
in which a man should wear a mask.

whether for attraction or repulsion. Do
justice to us and to yourself.'

' In what way ? '

' By being natural.'

Upon Matthew's return on that first
night from his long interview with his
friends, in which I understood he had
given an account of our wanderings, and,
I doubt not, some flattering descriptions
of me (which again caused resentment in
me), he told us that the welcome accorded
to us was genuine and hearty, and that
the house we now occupy was to be ours
as long as we choose to remain. It is a
large and most beautiful residence, perhaps
the best on the Silver Isle, and the fact
of its being given so generously, should
have convinced me of the goodness of the
islanders ; but I was in a rebellious,
querulous mood that night. The house
belongs to a gentleman named Mauvais,
who sought refuge on the isle when he
was in danger of his life through political
troubles, and when he lefse, after a sojourn
of many years, he gave the islanders free
use of it until he or some person authorized
by him should appear to claim it. In that
event, although I shall be sorry to change

my residence, having grown attached to
the home, it will not be a matter of serious
importance to us. We are now in a position
to build a house for ourselves, having
become so by our own labour.

That was a momentous question.
How were we to live ?

' We cannot eat the bread of idleness,'
I said.

' Surely not,' said Matthew merrily.
What, then, shall we do ? Make a start
with drum and castanets ? How they
would gape and stare to hear us mouth
and rant ! We should have an audience,
Margaret ; the children would run after
us all over the isle.'

' And their mothers,' I said, with a
grimace, ' would ever after lock them up
the moment we showed our faces. However,
I believe I shall never be contented
here until we show ourselves to your
friends in our true colours. They must
know us as we are, father.'

'' ' I am of your mind, Margaret. I do
not intend to give up old ways entirely ;
I have my plans in more ways than
one. But make your mind easy ; our
path is clear before us. Trust Matthew

Sylvester. He has not roamed the world
for nothing

Then he explained how his father had
been a famous fisherman, and had taught
him the cunning of the art, and how,
during his absence from the Silver Isle,
he had taken attentive note of the better
kind of fishing-tackle used in the countries
they had travelled over.

"• ' We will teach them this and other
things,' said Matthew, 'both useful and
entertaining. I can show them rare improvements
in rod and reel, and especially
in the art of making artificial flies. I
have spoken of it already, and my ideas
have been well received. Paul and I will
set to work presently.'

They went to work at once, and we
were soon placed in a position of independence.
These seem trivial matters to
mention here, but they were serious tome
at the time, and I took them much to
heart.

"It troubled me that for a time only
elderly people visited our house. I love
the society of the young, and it pained me
that the children of the isle did not seek
my friendship. I cannot describe how

gentle and patient Matthew was with me
during these rebellious moods. He schooled
me to patience and to a better understanding
of things, and insisted that his friends
showed a wise discretion in their behaviour.


' Sudden affection,' he said, ' is not the
most lasting. The people of the isle build
upon sure foundations, and for my part I
am satisfied with their conduct. But our
first consideration is your happiness. The
world is open to us to return to it if we
choose, and choose we shall, if you are not
contented here. Let us, however, give the
new life a fair trial, and not burden it with
fancied ills. Precious stones have often
been thrown away in haste. Trust me?
Margaret ; if you are patient, you will win
both old and young.'

'this words, thank God, proved true.
Gradually the people grew to love me, and
trusted their children with me. Their
hearts were not hard to win, and our
house became their favourite resort. Then
I had a new care and joy to occupy my
mind ; my baby would soon be born.

"I yearned for a girl, whom I could love
as I had loved Clarice. I fondly hoped that

my child would resemble Clarice, and indeed
believed it would be so.

' We will call her Clarice,' said my
husband.

"I would not have it so. My child
should not bear my sister's name ; it might
carry with it a bad omen.

But my firstborn was a boy, and we
named him Joseph. I felt no disappointment
; I was fully, perfectly happy. He
did not resemble me in feature ; he
favoured my husband's family.

From this time it was that I began to
be assured of the enduring affection of the
islanders. Had I been closely allied to
them by blood, they could not have shown
me greater kindness. My mind was more
composed ; my joy in my child was great,
and I said to my husband, —

*' ' I shall be content to live and die
upon this happy isle.'

This better state of contentment had
its origin partly in a dream I dreamt
shortly after I became a mother.

'* A dearer life than mine was in my
arms ; gazing upon my child with an
exquisite sense of gratitude to God, I fell
into a happy sleep.

*' A fair white snow-land rose before
me, high up in the heavens. It was the
basin of eternal snow I see now from my
window. All the world was asleep, and
this lovely work of Nature rose before mein
perfect peace and purity. Beyond it
stretched the calm and beautiful ocean.
Not a ripple disturbed its breast. No
sound fell upon my ears, not the rustle of
a leaf.

Thus I lay, as it seemed for hours,
with a heaven of rest in my heart.

Suddenly I saw a figure standing
upon the peak of the snow-mountain, the
figure of a girl clad in white, with a girdle
of roses round her waist. I knew it to bethe
figure of that Evangeline with whose
sad story I had been made familiar. She
turned towards me, and pointed to the
ocean, upon whose eastern edge a golden
light was rising. And in that golden
light another figure appeared, the figure
of Clarice.

Across the sea she came, with the
spreading of golden beams, until she
reached the snow-land upon which Evangeline
stood. Then, hand in hand, they
gazed at me with tender smiles, and sank

VOL. I. Q

into the basin of snow, wliicli now lay like
a ruby cup in the eye of the rising sun.

I was comforted at the time by this
dream. It was as though Clarice were
with me upon the Silver Isle. The sea no
longer separated us.

This comforting impression was not
permanent. Fancies of a gloomier nature
have since oppressed me, and nearly all,
strange to say, connected in some way
with the mountain of snow. Sometimes
Clarice seemed to reproach me for having
deserted her ; but what could I do ?
Would I not have sacrificed my life for her ?
Oh, my dear, dear sister ! what trials were
yours before your sufferings were ended
by death ! Shall I ever learn the history
of your sad fate ?

It is but lately she appeared to me ina
terrible dream. She had grown old,
haggard, wrinkled, and was dragging her
weary feet over a stony road, leaving
behind her marks of blood. She was
hungry, and parched with thirst. I ran
towards her with a cup of water, calling,
Clarice ! Clarice ! ' She turned at my
cry, and dashed the cup of water from my
hands. ' You betrayed and deserted me ! '

she cried. 'I am not dead. I am living
in hopeless misery ! '

Thank God, it was only once she
appeared to me in this guise ! Were such
dreams frequent, they would drive me
mad.

In setting: down these fancies in this
place I am losing the sequence of events.
I must return to the time when my baby
was born.

'^ He was three months old, and I was
in perfect health, when Matthew informed
me that he had written a play which he
intended we should represent to our
friends. He had mentioned the matter
to them, and although a few of the elder
people had doubts, he had argued them
down, and they not only consented that
the experiment should be made, but
promised to be present on the occasion.

It was, after all, an innocent experiment,
and was the means of introducing
a new kind of amusement into the Silver
Isle.

During my illness Paul and Matthew

had transformed a large spare room into

a miniature theatre, had raised a stage,

fixed a curtain, and painted a scene in

Q 2

wliicli the action of onr little play was to
occur. We were all anxious as well as
curious concerning the result, and on the
appointed evening our house was filled
with visitors. The old people were grave,
the young were in a flutter of excitement.
Such an entertainment had never been
given upon the Silver Isle. The room was
well lighted, and there were seats for
more than a hundred persons.

"What were the feelings of the
islanders as they sat in mute expectation
before the green curtain it is impossible
for me to say. I know what mine were.
I felt inclined to laugh and cry at the same
time.

The play was a very simple affair.
The characters represented were a sailor
and his wife, allotted to Paul and me, and
an old sailor, played by Matthew. Our
baby also took part in the performance.
The scene was a room in the young sailor's
house near the sea-coast. Happiness and
contentment reigned in the humble household.
The young husband was on the eve
of departure on a voyage which was expected
to last eight or nine weeks. There
was pleasant talk about the sea, in language

really poetical, between the three
of us. This was to be my husband's last
voyage ; upon his return he would have
enough money to buy a fishing-boat, which
was to supply the future means of livelihood.
After a tender parting he left us,
saying he would be with us again before
baby was born. ' And what is baby's
name to be ? ' asked the old sailor. Outside
was heard the distant voice of my
husband, singing a song of farewell. I
answered him in his favourite song. This
ended the first part of the play.

From the buzz of delight we heard
among the audience, we augured that we
were producing a pleasing effect. The
second part commenced at the time ray
husband's ship was expected home. The
old sailor and I indulged in fond anticipations,
and mapped out a happy future.
The old sailor left me to endeavour to pickup
some news about my husband. ' I will
bring him back with me,' he said. While
he was absent I arranged the room in the
way that would give my husband most
pleasure. I had bought tobacco for him
and a new pipe, and had knitted him a
purse, which I placed upon the table in a

dozen different ways, so as to make them
attractive in his eyes, singing softly to
myseii: as I shifted the things this way and
that. The door was slowly opened, and
the old sailor entered, alone. Had he
heard news of my husband ? He answered
softly, yes. Then he would be here soon,
or perhaps he was hiding behind the door ?
I ran to the door and opened it. My husband
was not there. Then gradually the
sad news was told. I should never see my
husband more. His ship bad been wrecked,
and every soul on board lost. The curtain
fell upon an outburst of passionate grief.

' You have touched them, Margaret,'
said Matthew ; ' half the house is in tears.'

There had been another lapse of time
when the curtain was drawn aside for the
last part of the play. My baby was born,
and I sat with him on my lap, singing of
the cruel sea which had robbed him of his
father. The old sailor could not comfort
me ; charged with the happy news which
was to make the play end with smiles
instead of tears, he did not know how to
impart it to me, for fear the sudden shock
of happiness might hurt my reason. He
adopted a score of expedients which

raised the excitement of the audience to a
Hgli pitch, and at length prevailed upon
me to sing the song I sang when my
husband went away. I complied in a
tremulous voice, and was on the point of
breaking down when, upon the waving of
a handkerchief by the old sailor out of the
window, my husband's voice answered me.
The end came soon, and we were all again
happily united.

'' This simplest of simple stories went to
the hearts of the islanders, and from that
night it has been a custom with us three
or four times during the year to give
similar representations for the pleasure of
ourselves and our friends. I was more
than satisfied with the result ; we had
shown ourselves in our true colours, and
had won approval.

At this time there traded to the isle
a brig whose captain was anxious to
supply many articles which he said would
be of use to the islanders. The brig, as I
understood, was supposed to belong to
Mauvais, and its visits were always regarded
as an event in the peaceful land.
A proposition was made by the captain
that he should employ a sculptor to cut a

statue in marble of that Evangeline whose
memory is cherished by the islanders, and
that it should be erected in the marketplace
as a lasting memorial of the wonderful
and terrible legend connected with the
mountain of snow. He was to receive in
payment a certain weight of silver extracted
from a silver-mine discovered by
Mauvais during his residence on the isle.
The proposition was accepted, and the
commission was given. There existed on
the isle no picture of Evangeline which
would guide the sculptor to a faithful
execution of his task, and the portrait and
figure of a young and beautiful girl who
was often at our house was drawn by an
artist, and given to the captain of the
brig. There was a great deal of talk and
much conversation among the islanders
concerning this commission, and curiosity
was raised as to the manner in which it
would be executed. When the captain,
who came once in every year, was expected
with the statue, I was also in expectation
of a new arrival — my second child,
Gabrielle. She was born, and was but
three days old, when my husband informed
me that the brig had come and gone, and

that the statue of Evangeline was erected in
the market-place. I had lost interest in
it, being occupied with my baby, to the
exclusion of all other subjects. It delighted
me beyond measure that I had now
a girl to rear and cherish. Still I adhered
to my resolution not to call the child
Clarice. I chose Gabrielle, a name, my
husband told me, derived from that hero
of God who strengthened Daniel and
brought the promise to Zacharias and to
the blessed Virgin.

' It is also,' said Paul, ' a promise of
beauty, for there was once a Gabrielle
whose rare graces gave an immortal reputation
to one of the greatest countries in
the world.'

But I cared more that my child should
be good than beautiful. The sad reflection
has occurred to my mind that beauty is a
misfortune ; it is most certainly a perilous
and sometimes a fatal gift.

That my child Gabrielle resembles my
sister Clarice may be bred by my fancy,
for Gabrielle is dark, Clarice was fair.

When I was strong enough, Matthew
took me to the market* place, and showed
me the statue of Evangeline. I gazed at

it in a kind of worship, and yet with terror
and amazement. It fascinated me, and I
could not remove my eyes from the beautiful
and perfect work.

' It appears,' said Matthew, ' to remind
you of a woman you have seen.'

*' ' It does,' I replied ; ' it reminds me of
my sister. Were it not impossible — '

I paused ; the wildness of the thought
arrested my speech. Matthew prompted
me.

' Yes. Were it not impossible — '

* I should declare that the sculptor
who modelled those features had a living
being before him, and that that being was
Clarice.'

CHAPTER XIII.

THE CONCLUSION OF MARGARET' S DIARY.

Matthew strove to reason me out of this
wild idea, saying that it was as irrational
as ever entered a woman's brain.

"At my earnest request, however, he
made inquiries concerning the sculptor,
whose name could not be ascertained;
but had the result of his inquiries been
different, no useful purpose would have
been served. It could not have brought
the dead from the grave.

'' Since that time, until the occurrence
of an event of which I shall presently speak,
my days have flowed on calmly and peaceful,
disturbed only by those memories
of the past with which Clarice is associated.'
I keep this suffering to myself ; it would
be ungrateful in me to ask those around
me to^'share it with me. No woman could
have a kinder husband or a wiser father

than I have. My children are healthy and
well-formed, and are a constant source of
joy in our house. In feature Joseph resembles
his grandfather Matthew; he is
bold and determined, and can be swayed
only through his affections. Matthew
says suffering is in store for him, because
of his sensitive spirit. Gabrielle is like
me, dark and rough ; she has a hot temper,
and is sometimes difficult to control. Their
grandfather, who takes great delight in
them, avers that they are vagrants by
nature, as he was before them.

'' ' I hope not,' I said ; ' I should not
like to think that they will be tossed about
the world, as we have been.'

' What is in the future for them,' said
Matthew gravely, ' neither you nor I can
tell. I have heard you and Paul talk
together of the kind of life the children
are to lead, how they are to grow up and
marry and have children, who with themselves
are never to leave the Silver Isle.
All that can be said in favour of such conversations
is that they are the harmless
expression of harmless ideas.'

' They are not unreasonable. Why
should parents not be able, especially in a

land so peaceful and retired as this, to
predict with certainty the kind of life their
children are to live ? '

'' ' Because, Margaret,' replied Matthew,
it is impossible to set exact rules of life
for this or that person, however closely
allied they may be to us. The seed being
put into the ground, no one can say with
certainty whether the tree will incline to
the right or the left ; least of all can it be
predicted in which direction the branches
will shoot out."

The children are of our blood.'

'' ' That is just it, and our blood is
vagrant blood. All we can do, simple one,
is to assist nature in the way we deem best
for those we love. We are the creatures
of circumstance — your own story proves it.
A dozen years ago could you have foretold
the present ? And do you believe now
that you can see the future ? '

* Our future is clear,' I said. ' Adventure
no longer plays a part in our
lives.'

^' ' Easy to say so. Startling as the
phases are through which we have passed,
others as strange may occur before the
next twelve years are gone. These matters

are not within our control. At this
present moment men may be moving
towards us from some distant part of the
world, bringing joy or woe into our lives,
despite all our efforts to shape our own
ends.'

'' When Joseph was seven years of age
and Gabrielle four, an event occurred in
the isle, which may make Matthew's words
prophetic. On an autumn day a schooner
came to the isle. I should have gone out
to hear the news, but I had much to do at
home, and rarely as the isle is visited by a
ship, the event is of no personal importance
to me. There are times when I shrink
from the slightest contact with the world
beyond these shores.

I was alone in the house. Joseph and
Gabrielle were in the fields ; Matthew and
my husband were absent on a fishing expedition,
and were not to return till the
following morning. My children came
home for their evening meal ; they were
flushed with delight, and prattled excitedly
of the pleasures of an afternoon spent
among their playfellows. They are both
mimics ; Matthew says they have dramatic
power in them, and that were we living in

the world, he would educate them for the
stage. They certainly possess a great gift ;
Joseph reads aloud with wonderful meaning,
and many childish scenes of their own
creation are depicted by them for our edification.
Their grandfather encourages
them, and frequently takes part in these
amusing representations.

'* ' Mother,' said Joseph, when our meal
was finished and cleared away, * ask us
questions ? '

' About what ? '

' About the ship.'

' You saw it, Joseph ? '

' Yes, and Gabrielle too. We were on
the beach.'

' I gave him some fruit,' said Gabrielle
quickly, ' and he whispered, " Thank
you, little maid." His voice was no
louder than that.'

She had finished her speech before
Joseph could stop her.

' You are telling it all wrong ! ' he
cried ; ' we have not come to that yet.
Go on, mother.'

' And did a boat come ashore? ' I asked.

'mother,' interposed Gabrielle again,
am I a little maid ? '

' Yes, Gabrielle. Let Joseph speak.'

' He wants it all,' pouted Gabrielle.

' You stall do your part directly,'
said Joseph, with dignity, ' if you are
quiet and good. Yes, mother, a boat
came ashore.'

' And the captain landed.'

'' ' It was a different captain from the
others. He was better-looking and more
gentle. He wore beautiful rings, and had
a diamond in his shirt. He walked like
this.'

My boy sauntered languidly to and
fro, pretended to dangle a cane from his
fingers, and looked about him with a
supercilious air. Ordinary captains were
not in the habit of walking thus, and I
saw that he intended to represent a gentleman.
Gabrielle clapped her hands.

' Then,' continued Joseph, ' he wanted
to know if the isle was full of children
who never grew any older. I did not like
that. Did you, Gabrielle ? '

' No,' answered my little girl ; ' I want
to be a woman, like mother, and have two
children, Gabrielle and Joseph, and Joseph
shall do everything Gabrielle asks him.'

' You are foolish,' was Joseph's response

; * men are the masters — except
mother. That is why the gentleman
asked us to take him to the fields, where
the men were working.'

' What occurred after that, Joseph ? '

'' ' We followed him to the fields, and
he threw himself upon the hay, and while
some one went for Father Sebastian,
Gabrielle and the other little girls and
women gave him some fruit.'

' Yes,' said Gabrielle, ' and he said ina
sleepy voice, '' Thank you, little maid."

' After that,' said Joseph, ' we went
down to the beach, and looked at the boat.
It was a long time before the gentleman
came back. Then he got into the boat,
and was rowed to the ship, and he came
back again, bringing a fairy and a
monster.'

' What do you mean, Joseph ? '

* We will show you. Come along,
Gabrielle ; you shall be the fairy, I am the
monster.'

They ran to the door, and presently
returned, hand in hand. Gabrielle was
simply Gabrielle, but Joseph was transformed.
His legs were crooked, his head
was shrunk into his shoulders, one of which

VOL. I. E

was higher than the other, his hair was
rouofh, and as he walked towards me he
threw suspicious looks about him.

'' ' He was just like that, mother,' said
Joseph, straightening himself; 'I never
saw such a man. What had he to do with
the fairy ? '

' I do not know, Joseph. The poor
man is a cripple, perhaps. You should
not mock him ; it is wrong. I have seen
some who are much to be pitied. Was
the little ofirl frightened of him ? '

* Oh, no ; she seemed to be fond of
him.'

' That is a proof that he is not bad.
What has become of them ? '

' They are here.'

* On the isle ? '

"eyes,'

' And the gentleman ? '

' He went back to his ship. Now,
mother, we have told you everything.
Head to us.'

*' * I retired early to rest on that night,
and about midnight was awakened by a
sound which I fancied I heard outside the
house. I arose and looked into the bedroom
of my children, the door of which

opened into my own. The children were
sleeping soundly. I went to bed again,
and again I fancied I heard the sound,
which resembled that of a man or an
animal moving in the garden. I dressed
myself immediately, and went into the
open air. The night was beautiful, and a
full moon was shining. I walked around
the house, and paused at a little distance
from a shed built by my husband at the
back of our house. I thought I saw a
movement among the shadows, and I called
in a loud voice, —

' Is any one there ? '

'* A strange voice answered me. ' Aye,
mistress.' And a man emerged from the
shadows. The moment he came into the
light I recognized the cripple of whom
Joseph had given me a representation.

I am not a timid woman. When
called upon, I think I am capable of showing
a courage of which a man need not be
ashamed. This I believe to be a quality
of my nature, but if it were not, there is
no cause for fear upon this isle where
crime is rare.

The man who stood or crouched
before me, looking up into my face, was
E 2

a dwarf, with strong misshapen limbs and
nothing in his face to recommend him. I
saw that he was tired and in want of rest,
but he seemed to be making an endeavour
to conceal his state of physical weariness
from my searching gaze, and to arouse in
me a feeling of repulsion by a scornful,
defiant demeanour. He was not successful.
My feeling for him was entirely one
of commiseration.

' You are the man who came to the
isle to-day,' I said.

' You know me, then, mistress ? *

' I heard of you to-night from my
children.'

' You were not among those who
welcomed me.'

«' ' I knew nothing of you until my
children told me.'

He appeared to derive satisfaction
from my replies. ' I thought I did not see
you among these liberal-minded folk.'

' What do you want here at this time ? '

' A roof ! ' he answered.

'' ' No house in the isle would refuse you
shelter.'

' I preferred to seek shelter for myself.'

' Where is the child ? '

' Evangeline ? Sleeping in a warm
bed, I hope, in one Father Sebastian's
house. Satisfied of that, I left her, to
shift for myself. This is Man vain' s property
? '

"eyes.'

' I was curious to see it. May I sleep
in that shed ? '

' Surely not there. Come into the
house ; I will give you a bed.'

' And an honest welcome ? '

' And an honest welcome. My husband
is absent, but he will approve.'

' You are one in a thousand,' he said,
in a voice more gentle than he had hitherto
used, ' and I thank you. I cannot accept
your offer. Give me leave to sleep in the
shed.'

' You are welcome to the best I have ;
that is the worst.'

' The worst is good enough for me.
I shall not disturb you. Do not be
frightened if you hear me move about.
I am going to see whether the slip that
brought me here is out of sight."

While he was gone, I brought from
the house a mattress and bed-coverings.
These I made up into a bed, and placed

by its side food and water. The dwarf
returned just at the finish of my task.

' You have given yourself needless
trouble,' was his remark ; ' I can sleep on
the earth.'

' There is no need,' I said carelessly,
in a tone of assumed indifference ; * one
may as well accept the comforts of life
when they are within reach. Time
enough for hardships when we cannot
avoid them.'

His piercing gaze searched my face
for the true meaning to my words. What
he gathered from the mute inquiry it is
difficult to say, but I entertained for him
no feeling but one of pity.

' You are unlike the women of the isle
I have seen,' he remarked.

' There is not one who would do less
for you than I have done. Good-night.'

' Stay, or I shall think you begrudge
what you offer. You are unlike them in
appearance, I mean.'

' I was not born on the isle.'

' How long have you lived here ? '

' Seven years and more.'

' You are almost as much a stranger
here as I am, then. Step a little into

the light ; I want to see you more
clearly.*

I humoured him, and moved to a part
of the ground where the full light of the
moon had free play.

'ras I stood there, with his eyes upon
me, I became suddenly conscious that my
senses were leaving me ; landscape and
sky appeared to be fading from my sight.
I aroused myself by a determined effort ;
the blurred figure of the dwarf became
clear again, and he was speaking, —

' There is a perfume in the air to which
I am not accustomed ; it beguiles my
senses. Where have I seen your face ?
In a dream ? As if I have not had enough
of dreams ! Stay but for another moment;
I will not harm you. That mountain
of snow yonder, with its white mists
moving like monster clouds. Is it inhabited
? '

' Yes,* I replied, and the answer
seemed to be forced from me, ' by the
spirits of the dead.*

' A proper place for the dead. There
is yet one thing more before I say goodnight.
I brought a child with me to the
isle.'

' I know — Evangeline.'

' No fairer child lives on earth. She
needs a home, and she must have one with
a woman I can trust. Gro to Father
Sebastian's house tomorrow, and, if you
are drawn to the child, adopt her as one of
your own. It will be a good thing done,
but do not undertake it if you feel you
cannot love Evangeline. Promise me.'

* I promise you.'

' I accept your hospitality. Goodnight.'


' Good-night.'

He went into the shed, and I into my
house, with no thought in my mind but
of him and Evangeline. When I slept I
dreamt of him and of the child I had not
yet seen.

Early in the morning my husband and
Matthew returned home from their fishing

o

expedition, and at my request accompanied
me to the house of Father Sebastian. On
our way I told them my purpose, and
they expressed their acquiescence in my
purpose with regard to Evangeline. Before
we started Ave looked into the shed
for the dwarf. He was gone, and we saw
nothing of him on the road.

To Father Sebastian I explained
the object of our visit, and he sent for
the child, saying that my proposal required
less consideration than if it had
proceeded from any other inhabitant of the
isle.

' It is fitting,' said Father Sebastian,
that she should find a home with you, in
the house belonging to Mauyain. She is
a charge from Mauyain himself. This
letter will explain how it has come about.
Upon its receipt yesterday I, without
knowing to what it referred, accepted the
trust in the name of the islanders. My
surprise was great when I saw the child
and her strange companion ; but I had no
intention of going from my word.'

Matthew read Mauyain' s letter aloud.
It was to the effect that he sent by a
friend named Harold — the gentleman, I
supposed, of whom my little Joseph gave
me a representation the previous night — a
trust which he confided to the islanders,
and that he might come one day to the
isle to thank his friends for their kindness.
The letter was courteous, and the language
that of a scholar and a gentleman.

' It is a singular trust,' said Matthew.

'' ' It lias occupied my thoughts during
the night said Father Sebastian, ' and
I can come to but one conclusion.
The child is an orphan, and an appeal was
probably made to Mauvais to give her
some kind of protection. In these circumstances
Mauvais thought of the isle in
which he spent many happy years, and,
attracted by the innocence and beauty of
the child, decided that no securer shelter
could be found for one without natural
protectors. It is a kindly act, and Mauvais
is to be commended for it. Another hypothesis
strengthens my conclusion. The
child's name happened to be Evangeline ;
Mauvais is familiar with the fatal story
connected with the snow mountain ; and
he said, " I will send my island friends a
new Evangeline as fair as the old, whom
they can protect and cherish and grow to
love." A tender eccentricity.'

' My daughter,' said Matthew, ' has
given me a description of the dwarf who
accompanies the child. Can you explain
that connection ? '

' I cannot,' replied Father Sebastian ;
it is a mystery which perplexes me. It is
certain that there is no kinship between

them, and certain also that they bear for
each other a very human love.'

'' At this moment Evangeline was
brought into the room.

Never shall I forget the feelings which
overpowered me at the sight of the sweet
and beautiful child. They say that the
loosest dream lasts but a moment, and it
may be that only for a moment was I
unconscious of surrounding things; that
the years which have passed since my
childhood were suddenly blotted from my
life, as though they had never been ; that
I was a child again and Clarice was a
child, and that we were listening to the
kind voice of our father, who was explaining
to us the mystery of the stars. Such
a night was ours in the past, fixed for ever
in my memory by a chance look at Clarice's
face turned upwards to the sky. So do I
carry in my memory the eternal fragrance
of a handful of violets, given to us by a
woman in a country lane when we were
children.

It passed, and the child Evangeline was
before me, gazing earnestly into my face.

'rit is not that her features resemble
those of Clarice. Her eyes are of a different

colour, her mouth is larger, her hands
broader and covered with dimples ; but
that altogether she brings my dear sister
to my mind with painful vividness.

I have not confessed this to my husband
or our father. It might cause them
to regard me as being a victim entirely to
my imagination. There are secrets we
keep even from those who are dearest tous.


I was not conscious that tears were in
my eyes until Father Sebastian remarked
it.

'' ' It is the thought of this pretty one,'
I said, ' thrown upon the chance love of
strangers.'

I knelt upon the ground, and I knew
that the men were regarding me with
tender looks.

' Child,' I said, drawing Evangeline tome,
' do you think you could love me ? '

' Yes,' she said.

' We want you to live with us ; I will
be a mother to you.' She echoed the word
Mother,' as though it were strange to her.
You remember your mother ? ' I asked.

'' ' No,' she replied.

' You will come with us, dear child ? '

'' ' If Ran does not mind. He must tell
me.'

I kissed her, and turned to Father
Sebastian. ' You are content that we
shall adopt her, sir ? '

'' ' It is the best arrangement that can
be made.'

'' My husband and Matthew also approved,
and that day Evangeline entered
her new home.

In the evening Eanf made his appearance.
We exchanged but few words. He
stipulated that he should see Evangeline
at any time he wished, and that she should
visit him when he desired. He spoke to
the child, who certainly entertains an
extraordinary affection for him.

'' ' Have you any questions to ask me ? '
he said before he left.

'^ ' But one. Has she neither father
nor mother ? '

' Neither. The child is doubly orphaned.'


"With that he left me, and although
three months have passed, has never again
crossed our threshold. But Evangeline has
gone to him. He imitates a bird's notes,
and she runs out eagerly at the sound.

"Joseph and Gabrielle are delighted
with lier; they yield to her every caprice,
and with the children she is full of whims.
With me she is more sedate. Since she
joined our household my life has undergone
a wonderful change. The past
seems nearer to me ; I think even more
frequently of Clarice than I have been in
the habit of doing. Once, with Evangeline
standing at my knee, I said to
her, —

' Did you know a beautiful woman
called Clarice ? '

*' She shook her head. ' No.'
'* ' Did you never hear* the name ? '
*' ' No ; it is pretty ; I like it.'
' Try to remember it, dear child.'
* Yes, I will try to remember it.'
And she murmured the name softly to
herself.

The days pass quietly. Eanf has built
huts for himself on the snow mountain ;
he is as much hated by the islanders as
Evangeline is loved. But in some mysterious
undefinable way his life seems to be
bound up with ours.

I am glad I have made this record. It
has comforted me."

CHAPTER Xii.

JOSEPH GIVES EVANGELINE A PROOF OF HIS
LOVE.

The years glided peacefully away, and
no event of importance disturbed the
repose of the Silver Isle. Evangeline,
elected by Joseph and Gabrielle as their
queen, wore her crown with the innocent
audacity of childhood, and ruled her little
kingdom with absolute authority. She
was capricious, but not tyrannical, imperious,
but not boastful; in their home
amusements and woodland rambles her
moods and whims were anxiously consulted
by her young subjects, who were
most happy when she was pleased and
satisfied. That she should be obeyed
appeared to be natural ; it was a pleasant
.servitude, and Evangeline's close connection
with Eanf enabled her to introduce
colour and variety into the lives of the
children.

Ran s position in the isle did not improve
as the years passed by. He lived his
lonely life upon the mountain of snow, and
did not even ask from the islanders the service
of occasional companionship. He was
at times compelled to move among them,
needing certain articles and necessaries of
life which he had no independent means of
obtaining. These he bought and paid for
with scrupulous honesty, driving no hard
bargains, and using as few words as possible
in the negotiations. Shortly after
his arrival upon the Silver Isle he presented
to Father Sebastian a paper signed
by Mauvais, requesting that Ran should
be allowed to extract silver from the mine
for a few days now and then, if it did not
interfere with the arrangements of the
islanders. The dwarf was informed that
he was free to work the mine when he
pleased, upon the condition that Mauvais' s
royalty of one-tenth was respected. He
availed himself of the permission, and
being a man of enormous strength and
endurance succeeded in obtaining much
treasure by working a few weeks in every
year. With this silver he purchased,
through the agency of the captains of the

vessels which at rare intervals visited the
isle, what he most needed and desired.
He sent for rope, chains, goats, and birds,
which without help he conveyed to his
mountain huts. The birds were carrier-pigeons,
which he reared with the
greatest pains and care. Dogs also he
bought, so that his huts were surrounded
with life subservient to his will. His
amazing industry, leading apparently to
no result, at first raised curiosity, and
the islanders asked each other what this
strange creature wanted with ropes and
chains, and why he had built for himself
three huts, one near the valley, one in the
centre of the mountain, and one within
a couple of hundred yards of the
topmost peak; but there was nota
man on the isle who cared to inquire
further into the matter by venturing into
that lonely region, defiled by human crime
and cursed by Grod. Indeed, as time went
on, common usage established a right, and
the mountain was looked upon as Ran s
lawful home, upon which none had warranty
to intrude without just cause. Ran s
restless presence added a new horror to
the spot, and numerous were the stories

VOL. I. s

which grew out of his goings to and fro,
not only in the day, but in the night, for it
appeared as if this deformed being could
live without sleep. In all these stories,
and in all that surrounded Ran's life and
movements, imagination played its part to
the dwarfs disadvantage, and even those
of the islanders most charitably inclined
were loth to admit that the circumstance
of a man surrounding himself with that
kind of animal life which was typical of
faithfulness and gentleness, spoke in his
favour. Ran had pronounced judgment
upon himself. His open violation of religious
observance, and his systematic
defiance of the laws of social life, caused
him to be regarded as an outlaw.

He did not murmur. One person loved
him, a child, it was true, but more likely
on that account to be sincere in the expression
of her feelings. With that love
he was content. He neither asked nor
expected to be received as a guest by the
Sylvesterss, but Margaret knew that he
kept close watch over Evangeline, and she
received proof that the feeling the dwarf
entertained for the child was as deep as
it was sincere. Evangeline had been with

them a year when lie was taken ill, and
for nearly a month was not allowed to
leave the house. Margaret, nursing the
child, heard Ran's signal, a faithful
imitation of the song of the lark. She
went out immediately, but the dwarf did
not present himself. In the rear of the
house was a stretch of woodland, thickly
clustered with trees, and it was here that
Ran and Evangeline were in the habit of
meeting. Ran from his hiding-place
could see who it was that answered his
signal, and when 'Evangeline appeared he
continued his clear notes, walking slowly
into the closer shelter of the trees, Evangeline
following him, until they reached a
spot where they could converse in private.
Upon this occasion, seeing Margaret approach,
he was silent, and kept himself from
her sight. She waited, however, and presently
imitated Eanf's call. Judging from
this that she had news for him, and having
reason to trust her, he replied to her, and
guided her to the spot on which he stood.

"I heard your signal," she said, "and
came at once."

** It is not you I want," he said.
'' Where is Evangeline ? "
s 2

She is ill."

He turned white at the news, and
exhibited so much emotion that Margaret
felt a great compassion for this lonely man,
who had but a single human being in the
world to love. She explained that Evangeline
was suffering from one of the
common ailments of children, and that
with care she would almost certainly recover.


'' May a blight," cried Hans, '' fall upon
the land if anything evil happens to my
little flower ! May plague destroy it, and
fire burn it ! "

Hush ! " said Margaret sternly ;
'' better to pray to God for our little one's
recovery. If you would have your own
opinions respected, pay respect to those of
others. Your language is not fit for a
woman's ears; how much less, then, for
the ears of a child ! "

You are right, mistress," muttered
Ran ; *' I ask your pardon. I would not
harm her to save my soul."

'' You may come in and see the child
if you like; she knows no one; in her
delirium she has often mentioned your
name."

Thank join," lie said bnmbly ; " I will
come in and see her."

You will not speak to her ; she must
be keep perfectly quiet."

Eanf followed Margaret into the house,
with steps lighter than her own. Evangeline
lay in a large cool room, covered
with bedclothes of snowy whiteness ; her
eyes were closed, her little hands were
agitated by feverish movement. In the
distant window facing the child were a
few loose flowers ; the window was partly
open, and the sweet air flowed in.

She likes to see the flowers," whispered
Margaret ; '' yesterday, when she opened
her eyes and looked towards the window,
she smiled at them."

Ran nodded, and stood looking down
upon the child ; something in her pale face,
or in the quietude of the room, touched him
nearly, for his eyes were filled with tears.

May I take her hand ? " he asked in a
whisper.

'' Be very gentle," said Margaret.

Eanf knelt by the bedside, and softly
placed his rough hand on Evangeline's
pretty fingers. The action did not disturb
her, nor did she move when he pressed his

thick coarse lips to the tender palm. For
some time lie knelt in silence, and when he
rose to leave the room, he beckoned to
Margaret. She accompanied him into the
air.

'' There is no danger, you think," he said.

"She will recover, by the mercy of
God."

He did not quarrel with the formula,
but gave Margaret a grateful look.

''I am your friend for ever," he said;
*' remember that. But for you, Evangeline
might have died."

She is as one of my own," said
Margaret, " and has brought to me the
sweetest and most painful remembrances."


*' It is a life of suffering," was Eanf's
commentary. '' Those who love least,
suffer least. Mistress, until Evangeline is
well, I must have some place near here to
sleep in."

You will not come into the house ? "

No. I slept once in that shed yonder
with yoiiO:- permission. May I do so
again ?"

'' You are welcome. We do not use the
shed."

Place nothing in it, neither bed, nor
food, nor anything you suppose would add
to my comfort. I shall feel more at my
ease if I am allowed to come and go of
my own free will, and I prefer to look
after myself."

You shall have your way'*

I shall come only in the night, and it
is not likely you will see me. I would
ask another favour at your hands."

Give it words."

If all has gone well with Evangeline
during the day, place outside her window
a flower, so that I may see it when I come
in the night."

*' It shall be done."

She had an intuitive knowledge of the
best way to treat this strange creature,
and her words were few and to the point.
Thinking of him after this interview, she
began to pity him in her heart, and to
wonder what kind of life had been his to

render men and the ways of men so hates



ful in his eyes. In that one house in all
the Silver Isle some feeling of compassion
was felt for the lonely man.

Every evening Margaret placed a flower
outside the window of Evangeline's bedroom.

Evangeline's recovery was slow
but sure, and when she was strong enough
to leave her bed, the child — having been
told by Margaret why and for whom a
flower was placed on the window-sill in
the evening — placed another by its side,
saying,—

Ran will know it comes from me."

Margaret informed her husband and
Matthew that she had given Ran the use
of the shed, and the children were warned
not to enter it by day or night.

He may have it altogether if he
likes," said the men ; " there is no occasion
to say anything about it. He will get
to learn in time that we look upon it as
his."

This happened without any words passing
between them ; and when one morning
Margaret Sylvester found two lovely
white goats, each with a kid, tethered to
a post near the entrance to her house, she
knew that they came from Ran as a mark
of friendship and gratitude.

To Joseph and Gabrielle, E-anf was a
being of wonderful and mysterious importance.
In so far as he was removed
from ordinary creatures, so far was he

above them. That Evangeline loved him
was sufficient to elevate him in their eyes.
Ugly and ungainly as he was, he was in
some sense a hero, whose hand it would bean
honour to touch. Up to a certain time
they were only friends with him vicariously,
Evangeline being the intermediary. It
was years before he spoke to them, and
when he came upon them suddenly in the
forest, Gabrielle, trembling, scarcely dared
to raise her eyes above his knees. Joseph,
though inwardly shaken, was bolder, and
returned Ran s searching look with one
of modest curiosity. He answered with
outward confidence the questions put to
him by Ran, and the dwarf appeared to
be pleased with him. This was Joseph's
impression, and was confirmed by Evangeline
in a conversation out of which
sprang an adventure which established a
friendship between Joseph and Ran.

Ran likes you," said Evangeline to
Joseph.

Did he say so ? " asked Joseph.

'' No ; but I can tell. He likes you
because I do."

This would have been humiliating to
one who aspired to be illustrious in himself

; but Josepli was content to receive
lustre through Evangeline.

Did lie ask that ? " inquired Josepli.

*'Wliat?''

Whether you liked me ? "

eyes."

*' And you do like me ? "

'' Yes."

Better than anybody ? "

Evangeline considered before she answered.
'' Except Ran."

*' What would you do for me ? " asked
Joseph anxiously.

'' Anything," she replied vaguely.

'' What would you give me ? "

'' Everything."

Joseph's mind at present was more
definite.

Ask me questions," he said. It was
a favourite request of his when he had
anything he wished particularly to say ordo.
" Questions about you and me."

'' Do you like me, Joseph ? "

'' More."

*' Do you love me? "

'' Yes."

** Better than anybody ? "

Yes ; better than anybody."

Better than Gabrielle ? "

"That is different."

'why is it different ? "

*' I don't know, but it is."

'' You have not told me, though," persisted
Evangeline.

I love you better than Gabrielle."

Does she know that ? "

Yes, and she says it is right."

Why is it right ? "

I don't know, but it is."

May I tell Ran ? "

*' Yes, I should like him to know ; I
should like everybody to know."

Do you love me better than you love
your mother ? "

It was an unkind question, and Joseph's
lips trembled as he answered, —

'' Yes, but that is different, too."

Does your mother know that ? "

"No, and I should not like to tell
her."

Then it can't be right."

It must be right, because it is you.
It would not be if it were anybody else.
I would like you to understand, Evangeline."


Make me understand, Joseph."

JosepH looked around for an inspiration.
It came to him in the form of a broken
branch which lay upon the ground. A
light flashed into his eyes ; he stooped and
picked up the branch.

'this is a good thick stick," he said;
look at it, Evangeline ; it is full of
knots."

"I see."

If my mother said to me, ' Joseph,
put your left hand on that stone, and
strike it hard with the branch, as hard
as you can,' I should ask her why she
wished me to hurt myself ; I am not sure
whether I should not throw the branch
away, and tell her if she wanted to hurt
me, she must do it herself."

Joseph's left hand lay upon the stone ;
in his right he grasped the branch.

"Well, Joseph," said Evangeline, "I
don't understand yet."

You will presently. That is what I
should do if mother desired me to strike
myself. But if you were to say to me,
Joseph, strike as hard as you can, and
show me how much you love me,' you
would see what I would do."

The children looked straight at each

other for a moment. Tien Evangeline,
suddenly closing her eyes, cried, —

Joseph, strike as hard as you can, and
show me how much you love me."

She heard the sound of a blow, and she
opened her eyes in fear. Joseph's bleeding
hand lay upon the stone, and Joseph was
gazing at her with a proud smile on his
face.

'' Oh, Joseph, Joseph ! " cried Evangeline.
" What have you done ? "

Tried to show how much I love you,"
replied Joseph, with no tremor in his voice,
although his hand was sorely wounded.
I would do more than that. Do you
understand now ? "

Yes, I understand. Oh, Joseph,
Joseph, how could you do such a thing ?
How could you hurt me so ? I feel it
more than you do ! It is cruel, cruel ! "

She took the wounded hand in hers, and
her tears fell upon it. In her remorse she
raised it to her lips and kissed it. An
exquisite thrill of happiness stirred the
boy's heart.

'' Will you kiss me, Evangeline ? "

She kissed him passionately, and left
the trace of blood upon his lips. Then

she drew him to a spring of water, and
bathed the wound, and wrapped her
handkerchief round it. Joseph laughed
gaily.

'' It does not hurt, Evangeline," he said.
You must not cry. If it was your
little hand instead of mine, it would be
different."

Joseph," whispered Evangeline, " I
will never, never be cruel again."

You must not say that," said Joseph
with an air of gravity ; " because, as
Grandfather Matthew says, we never know
what is coming."

*' There's blood on your lips, Joseph ;
let me wipe it off."

He held her hand to prevent her,

"There's blood on your lips, too,
Evangeline. Do not wipe it away. Let
it remain; then we shall not forget."

'* I shall never forget, Joseph."

'' Nor shall I."

'' Does your hand pain you now ? "

No ; it was never so well. What are
you wrapping the branch in your frock
for?"

I am going to keep it, Joseph, all my
life."

You must promise me one thing,
Evangeline."

'' What is it ? "

You must promise me beforehand."

'' I promise."

'' Mother nor any of my people," the
phrase came to Joseph, and he gave utterance
to it in a lofty tone, " must know of
this."

They ought to be told, Joseph."

They shall not be told, Evangeline. I
have your promise."

She felt that it was out of consideration
for her that the promise was extracted. Of
her own will she would have related voluntarily
the story of Joseph's heroism and her
own wilfulness, and would have gloried in
showing herself in the worst and Joseph
in the brightest light. However, it was
not to be ; the secret was between her and
Joseph, and another, from whom she
concealed nothing.

Eanf must know, Joseph."

"As you please about that. He will
not talk of it to anybody else."

That night Joseph, with boyish enthusiasm,
looked at his lips stained with the
blood of Evanojeline's kiss. He would

have liked to retain that mark for ever.
It could not be; but deeper and more
lasting than any outward sign was to bethe
remembrance of the secret bond which
bound him to Evangeline for ever and
ever. As he nursed his wounded hand in
his sleep he dreamt of greater deeds performed
for her sake, of greater suffering
endured in her behalf. It was a proud
epoch in his young life, and his state of
exaltation was purified and freed from
selfish dross by an innate nobility of nature
which one day in the future might blossom
into heroic fire.

END OF VOL. I

GILBERT AND Livingston, Limited, ST. JOHN S SQUAEE, LONDON.

3 0112 045831341

lime

R^SW^W


r22^

B. L. FARJEON,

ACTHOB OF "great Porter Settee : A MTSTEBT," " THE SACKED
NUGGET," " Christian ANGEL," " GEIF," ETC.

IX THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. II

WARD AND DOWNEY,

12, YOEK STEEET, Covent GARDEN.
1886.

[All rights reserved.]

8T. John's square.

CONTENTS.

CHAPTER I.

Page

Ran makes a Record 1

CHAPTER II.
Raff and Mauvais 22

CHAPTER III.
Rank's Experiences in the World . . 44

CHAPTER IV.
Ran claims Evangeline as his Own . . 67

CHAPTER V.
Ran dedicates his Diary to Evangeline . 105

CHAPTER YI.
Ran's Diary continued . . . .113

CHAPTER VII.

PAGE

The Testimony in the Bible . . .119

CHAPTER Viii.

The Testimony in the Bible continued . 141

CHAPTER IX.
Ran puts the Links of the Chain together 162

CHAPTER X.
The Statue in the Market-place . .179

CHAPTER XI.
A Perilous Discovery 198

CHAPTER XII.
Golden Caves 213

CHAPTER XIII.
Ran completes his Diary 234

CHAPTER XIV.
Mauvais returns to the Silver Isle . . 253

CHAPTER I.

THE Record OP Ras-NF THE HUNCHBACK.

*' Come, E-anf, while you have the power,
set upon paper a sign that shall remain
when you have passed away. While
I live no eye but mine shall see what
I write. Wlien I am dead, it is Evangeline's,
with all that I possess. It is
not that I believe I shall die to-night or
tomorrow, but it is as well to think of
things. It is right that Evangeline should
know something of my inner life, so that
she may give men the lie who speak ill of
me. There are plenty of them ; let them
have their way, but do not let them step
into mine. A spirit within me might cry
Strike ! ' and they would not live to rue.
*' No, I shall not die to-night, but I will
be prepared. Only up to a certain point

VOL. II. B

are we our own masters ; tliougli steadfastness
and determination will achieve
most human desires, we are for ever at the
mercy of chance, which at any unexpected
moment may snap the mortal thread.
This morning I slipped upon a stone, and
fell to a depth of a thousand feet before I
recovered myself by catching at a branch
of a tree which grew out of the rocks for
my preservation. I slid down over the
sharp stones which cut my hands when I
endeavoured to clutch them, but Death was
not waiting for me in the depths below.
Scores of years ago a seed was blown into
a crevice, and a tree grew and forced the
rocks asunder, that I might be saved for
my life's purpose. Those who pretend to
study the science of Divine things, and who
really understand them as well as a beetle,
would dispute this, if it paid them to do so.
I have my beliefs, and am content with
them. If in the world's scheme there is
any sort of design, all things possible must
be admitted. Even the unseen agencies
by which we are surrounded, and whose
mysterious power derides our highest
efforts, play their direct part in our
lives. Sometimes they drive men mad.

Human judgment lias passed such a
verdict upon me; but I have long learnt
to accept-vYith scorn the judgment of
mankind.

I am quite calm, though sorely
wounded. Bodily pain does not distress
me; I can trifle with it, argue with it,
laugh at it, defy it, and conquer it. I
have in my time suffered torments, but it
has been the anguish of the soul that has
conquered me and made me groan. I am
bruised and cut, and shall not be able to
descend the mountain for two or three
days at least.

I saw a flower that shone like gold,
with a dusky mellow lustre such as I see in
the autumn sunsets as I stand upon the
highest peak of this mountain of snow.
Its peculiarity was that its inner cup
reflected a light of burnished silver. It
was not within easy reach, and I could
only hope to obtain it by stepping on a
large stone which projected from the
outer surface of the precipice. I established
a foothold, and with a firm grasp of
the earth behind me, leant forward to
detach the flower by its root, when the
stone slipped from beneath me. I slipped
E 2

with it, aid was saved by the tree.
Wounded as I was, I could not possibly have
reached the mountain's top by climbing
the surface of the rock, but to my surprise
I found in the rear of this tree an easier
path to safety. It could not have been
made by human hands

I am arrested in the current of my
thoughts by a notch. Why could this
hidden ^Dath not have been made by
human hands ? There can be no doubt
that the islanders speak the truth when
they say that no man but myself has
ventured into these strange regions for
generations. But two hundred years ago
there lived upon the mount a man, self-banished,
whose life was cursed by love
and jealousy. He grew old here, and
passed his days in loneliness, without
human or other visible companionship.
The mountain was his then, as it is mine
now. He essayed a wonderful task, and
may have cut this jDath to assist in its
accomplishment. It is not an unreasonable
idea. When I am able to move about
I will convince myself whether the narrow
way has been made by nature or man.

What kind of life did he live upon this

mount ? He was utterly alone ; not a living
being to hold converse with. Separated
from the world by an impassable gulf,
dreading the future, seeking to propitiate
it by tears and supplication, and self-abasement.
Both fool and coward !

A handsome man, they say, a hero inform
and purpose, wise, and strong, and
capable. That is how men judge of others
by outward signs ; so do they judge of
me. But I have taught them something
already, and may teach them more. A
new character for you to play, Ran — a
braggart. Although you are deformed
and a hunchback, although your limbs are
at odds with one another and you are in
height but half a man, I know under what
conditions you could elevate yourself into
a god to be worshipped by the crowd.

There is a sound at my door of
scratching and tearing, and now as of a
body pushing with strength and violence.
The door flies open.

It is my dog Leontine. I left her in
the lower hut two days ago, and she has
sought me out. She lies now at my feet,
devoted and tame, as handsome and as
strong as a lioness. Had she found me

dead, lie would have licked my body, and
perchance have shed tears over me. She has
in her higher qualities than some human
beings I. know. I do not say this because
Leontine loves me ; I say it out of the
depths of my life and experience.

She thought I was in pain ; she looked
up at me with her great soft eyes, and,
when I smiled at her to assure her that I
was at my ease, she nestled down comfortably
in satisfaction. What would you
do for me, Leontine — fight for me, die forme
? Were you a woman, would you love
me ? If you could speak, and answered
yes, I would stab you where you lie.

If I had been born straight, Leontine
could not love me more. It is perhaps
fortunate for me that I came into the world
crooked and misshapen. Something is
mine. The love of goats and birds and
dogs is worth having — when you can't get
the love of a woman.

'' Leontine, I will confess to you. You
will not betray me. It is long, long ago
in the past since the sunlight, peeping
in upon me, stole away to flowers and
blades of grass better worth ripening, and
left me in the dark to thrive as best I

c>

could. I was born in the dark, and
lived in a forest, in the very depths of
it, farther away from men than I am
now. I have kept no count of the years.
About me was a woman who said she
was my mother, and gave me my name,
such as no other man ever bore. I
had nothing in common with humankind.
I was much alone; often for weeks
together. We lived in a wretched hut,
and I was left to do pretty much as I
liked. Certain rules, however, were set forme.
I was warned not to wander beyond a
defined boundary ; frightful stories were
related to me of awful creatures prowling
within a mile of our hut, and of what they
would do to me if I ventured within their
reach. I had no desire to do so ; I made
acquaintance with bird and beast, but not
with man. I had no reason to believe that
there was another child in the world besides
myself. My mother, who was as
hideous as I, and who never gave me a kind
word, bade me, on pain of torture and
death, not to show myself if any human
creature came in view. When she left
me, saying she would return tomorrow,
or next week, or next month, I felt no

regret. Leontine, I kiss you; you are
grateful; you know it is a sign of love.
I love you, my dog, else I should not
embrace you. I do not remember this
woman ever placing lier lips upon my
face.

It was no loss. I felt no need for
kisses. There was enough to eat in our
hut ; as a child I learnt to snare birds and
prepare them for the table ; we had a bit
of land where vegetables grew ; I lived the
life of an animal.

It is almost a wonder how I learned to
speak; for this at least I can thank my
mother. When she was away I talked to
the trees, and fancied I knew their language
as their branches bent and their leaves
rustled in the wind. Then I could bark
like a dog. I have not done so since I
have been on the isle. Listen, Leontine.

Ha ! I startled you. Here is something
more. I can send my voice outside
this hut, and can make you think weare
surrounded by your species. Listen
again.

I have done a fine thing. Leontine is
gone, searching for the bodies that gave
forth those sounds. I cannot continue

witling lier companionship. I will wait
till she returns.

Site is here, standing by my side, with
a listening look in her eyes. I will fool
you no more, Leontine. Go, shut the
door, and rest in peace.

The voices and songs of birds I also
learned to know and imitate. I was
entirely a woodland creature, and I cannot
say with truth that I was unhappy ; but I
was conscious of a void in my life. Define
it I could not ; I seemed to be waiting fora
sign, and even, at times, to be yearning
for it. That was because I was human.

A task was given me to perform.
Beyond the boundary was a forest of deer,
which gentlemen amused themselves in
hunting. When a deer strayed within
our boundary I was to chase it over the
border. Of these events I kept a record
in a small book, and it was by this means
I learnt to form written characters, and,
imperfectly, to read. The records were
simple, and ran thus : On such a day, in
the morning, afternoon, or night, there
appeared a deer, of such an age. I knew
the age of the deer by its antlers. It was
an easy task to frighten these gentle

animals away ; but one day a deer turned
and evaded me, and, when I hurt it with
a stone, attacked me. I was gored and
wounded badly, but the victory was mine.
Then I knew that I was strong.

"My mother was terribly angry with
me, and said that if the gentlemen knew
I had killed a deer they would take my
life.

' Or I should take theirs,' I answered.
I am ready for another fight. It is rare
sport.'

' You are a fool,' my mother said ; ^ if
you crossed the path of a gentleman, he
would kick you aside.'

«« ' Why would he do that ? ' I asked, incuriosity.


' Look at yourself in clear water,'
replied my mother, shaking her fist at me ;
you are neither beast nor human.'

I laughed at her anger ; there was
nothing in it to frighten me. As to
looking at myself in a clear pool, it was
a thing I had never thought of doing;
no fair stream of water lay within our
boundary. But when my laughter ceased,
I became thoughtful and moody, and my
mother's words, carrying in them a sting I

did not rightly comprehend, rankled in my
mind a long time afterwards.

Growing bolder with years, and less
willing to be told I must go bere and must
not go there, and still less willing to obey,
I plunged beyond the boundary, and came
upon a building of stone, surrounded by a
neglected garden. There were fruit-trees
in it, still bearing, and as I ate some of the
fruit, I looked admiringly at the stained
and painted windows and at the beautiful
house, the like of which I had never seen
before.

'' ' Who lives here ? ' I asked myself.
One of those gentlemen who would kick
me from his path if I crossed it ? '

I knocked at the doors, without
receiving an answer; I tried gates and
windows, and found them fast. There
were pillars in the principal entrance,
reaching to a verandah, stretching out
from some of the handsomest windows in
the building. Determined to see the
inside of the house, I climbed up one of
these pillars, and stepped on to the
verandah. One of the windows was
loose ; without breaking it I managed to
open it, and by that means obtained

entrance. The house was entirely deserted ;
not a sign of Hfe was visible, with the
exception of spider-webs in all the corners.
The walls were hung with beautiful
pictures, the furniture was gold and
velvet, I could not hear my footfall as I
walked on the thick pile-carpets. I
strolled through the rooms in a kind of
dream, and came to one into which the
full sunlight was pouring. It was a bedroom,
with delicate fripperies in it which
I handled with care. There were two
pictures in this room which fixed my
attention ; one of a gentleman, dressed inc
our fashion, the other of a lovely young
girl. The faces in both the pictures
singularly affected me. The features of the
girl were faultlessly beautiful ; the handsome
mouth of the gentleman was opened,
and showed his regular whifce teeth, his
hands were delicately shaped, and there
was an air of distinction about him which
was new to me. I passed my hand over
my face, and was seized by a longing to
look at myself in clear water, as my
mother had bid me do. I turned to a table
upon which stood a mirror, the first I had

ever seen, and in the glass I saw a reflection
of myself.

'' What kind of monster was it that
peered eagerly forward to look into my
face ? Could it be the hideous and faithful
likeness of one who was ' neither beast
nor human ;' or a juggle created by some
fiend to madden me ? I dashed my fist
into the mirror, and cut my fingers to the
bone. I did not feel the pain of my
wounded flesh. My soul was quivering
with the keener torture of the indignity
which Nature had fastened upon me. Why
was I sent into the world in this shape, a
horror to all that beheld me ? If I could
destroy myself as I had destroyed the reflection
of myself 5 would it not be a good
thing done ? The idea held me for an instant
only. JSTo. Why should I take my
life ? Better to think myself other than I
was, transformed to beauty, in the likeness
of the handsome gentleman whose
portrait I was again examining. Without
any absolute direction of my will I aped
the graceful posture of this fine gentleman,
aped the motion of his dainty hands, aped
his smile and the pose of his head. In

this disguise I gazed at the portrait of the

lovely girl, and kissed my hand to her ;

and the next moment, with some sudden

notion of the truth, I burst into a passion

of tears, and staggered from the room.

Down the stairs I stumbled with but one

thought stirring in my mind — despise of

myself. I found myself now in a room

which, but for the dust that lay heavily

about it, I might have supposed had been

quite recently occupied. Bottles and

glasses were there ; in the glasses were

the crusted dregs of wine, and thick stains

of spilt liquor were on the table ; two

chairs lay overturned on the ground, and

by their side a rusty rapier. I was in a

paroxysm of rage at my deformity. On a

sideboard were some bottles which had not

been uncorked. I knocked the necks off

two, and pouring the contents into a huge

silver goblet with double handles, I drank

the wine with greedy enjoyment. It

exhilarated me, and changed my mood to

one of passionate hope and exultation. I

shouted, I sang, I danced, and drank more

wine, until I fell to the ground and slept

like a log.

'' I did not awake till early morning, and

I opened my eyes to the singing of birds.
The sounds came from my own lips,
inspired perhaps by a woodland dream. I
rose to my feet, and thought of all that
had passed ; the wine had not affected me
otherwise than to make me sleep ; my head
was perfectly clear.

I made a further examination of the
deserted house, and walked through the
rooms, from the top of the house to the
bottom. The doors that were locked I
opened with ease, even the cellar-doors,
which led to vaults where rare old wine lay
buried, ripening to rarer perfection.

'* There remained but one room still
unexplored; it was locked, and had not
yielded easily to my pressure. I returned
to it, and using all my strength,
forced it open. It was full of books.
The walls were lined with them; protected
by glass cases from dust, they
reached from floor to ceiling. The windows
were emblazoned with richly-coloured
pictures ; beautiful groups in bronze were
set about; the ceiling was carved into
quaint faces, whose eyes looked down
upon me with solemn import, whose
features were instinct with life. Figures

of armed men stood in niches, mute
guardians of the rich treasures of the
room. I approached them in fear; I
touched them, and they did not strike me
down ; the armour encased no forms of
living flesh. These figures, the models in
bronze, the carvings, the subdued light,
the eloquent books, impressed me deeply.
In a corner stood a large case of wood, the
outer surface of which was inlaid with
figures of birds and beasts and objects
unfamiliar to me. I raised the lid, and
saw a long row of ivory tablets. I pressed
my fingers upon them, and a deep voice
issued forth, which floated through the
walls, and died gradually away in the
distance. "Wlien the sound fell upon my
ears I started back, fearing that I had
released a spirit ; but presently, the sound
being gone, I touched other keys, and
produced notes of sadness, of joy, of
solemnity. Now came a peal of wedding
bells, now the tolling of a funeral
dirge. It was the first time I had heard
music different from the natural music of
field and forest.

I was in another world ; I heard
voices ; I saw visions ; a new spirit was

born within me. I was no looser Ran
the deformed! I was a human being,
with a soul to be moved by passion.

*' Leontine, I believe you have a soul.
In another state of being we shall wander
side by side in friendly communion, thinking
of our life in the Silver Isle. You
will be faithful and true, I know ; we shall
understand things better then.

Perhaps then, Evangeline, still living,
will be reading these lines, and will send
a tender thought into the air for the
cripple who would yield up his life for her.
You see, my dog, there is nothing else that
binds me to this Avorld — not even you. I
was growing into the spiritual likeness of
a savage, my case a fitting one for a world
of evil thought, and she brought back tome
my better self. I was ready so to hate
myself and all mankind that no deed would
have been too black for my mind to conceive
and my hands to perform. It is no
slight service, Leontine, to have your sense
of self-respect restored to you, to be made
to feel, through the love of a little child,
that, twisted out of all proportion as you
are — through no fault of your own — your
nature is in kinship with much that is

VOL. II.

beautiful and bright in earth and air. The
clouds, the flowers, the balmy air, the
sweet sounds of forest Hfe, and I, are of
one family. The clouds shine upon me,
the flowers incline towards me, the balmy
air kisses me, the harmony of nature is
not less sweet when I am by. It is only
man that is unkind. And I, knowing
the world, know that to bend and fawn
and lick the hand that wrongs you, destroys
within you the spirit of manhood, and
brings you to the moral level of the
snake, that crawls upon its belly and lives
in slime. So I give scorn for scorn, and
make the best of what I was not able to
avoid.

"I took possession of the deserted
mansion, and no soul disturbed me for years.
During all that time not a human being
but myself entered the house. I haunted
it in secret, and my mother was not able
to discover where I spent the days. She
followed me, and I tricked her; led her
over marsh and water-field, and through
the prickly intricacies of the bush; I ran,
and walked, and lingered, with her behind
me, and never turned to see; then I led
her a dance back to our wretched hut,

laughing to myself at the knowledge that
I had a palace of my own, whose treasures
of art had opened the windows of my soul,
and let in Heaven's light.

' Where do you hide ? ' asked my
mother.

^ In a cave,' I answered.

' Alone ? '

"'No.'

* With whom, then ? ' she cried suspiciously.


* With shadows,' I said, laughing in her
face, ' that have life, but cannot speak.'

'' She asked me whether I was a fool, a
knave, or a madman. I asked her in
return whether she was really my mother.
She aimed a blow at me, that struck the air.

"you can tell me one thing,' I said
composedly ; ' who owns us ? '

' A great lord.'

' A man, do you mean ? '

' 1^0 ; a gentleman.'

' A gentleman, and not a man ; then
he is in bad case. And all this land is his ? '

' Aye, for miles around.'

' Why does he not come here ? '

' You had better ask him when you
see him.'

c 2

'' ' I will. When will lie come ? '

' When the whim seizes him ; then
you will be whipped.'

'' ' I think not. I would fling the man
into the air who dared to touch me with
hand or weapon.'

It was her turn to laugh now.

*' ' You are a slave,' she said, 'as I am.
You do not know what great men can
do.'

'' ' I will wait and learn,' I said calmly.

She regarded me with curiosity.

'' 'You are changed, Eanf.'

''I glanced over my shoulder at my
hump. ' It has grown larger,' I said ; ' it
is big enough for a man.'

' Your are one in years.*

I was glad to hear that.

' So,' I said commandingly, ' mother
or no mother, treat me as a man.'

I compelled respect from her. It was
a poor triumph, Leontine, and it shames
me now to think I felt proud of it. . . .

I am interrupted. There is a tapping
at my door, as of some gentle creature
desiring shelter. Leontine' s head is inclined
towards the door, and her soft eyes
are fixed upon mine. Go, my dog, and

discover who it is that seeks admittance in
manner so gracious. . . .

It is one of my white doves from the
lower list. What brings you here, my
bird ? Have you a message from spirit-land
tied under your wing ? Am I
summoned ? No, my dove, not yet. I
shall live my time, I believe. But it is
kind of you to come to see your wounded
master, though I must have taught you
badly that you should come without being
bidden. This time I forgive you. Fly to
your dovecote and find your mate.

CHAPTER II.

EANF AND Mauvais.

'' From the date of tins conversation with
my mother my steps were no longer dogged.
I was left to do as I pleased with my days
most of which I spent in the deserted
house, feasting on old wine and old books.
I spared neither, and did not abuse them.
The wine created for me an ideal world,
in which I performed vainglorious deeds ;
the books bore better fruit. There were
in the library many manuscripts relating
to botanical science, and these where especially
attractive to me. I became (I have
no doubt superficially) learned in the
growth and life and affinities of plants,
and my studies — which where of infinite
value to me in what I choose to call soul-development
— led me to the discovery of a
dream-flower, from which I distilled a
liquid the mere inhalation of which is

sufficient to produce sleep, and, often,
beautiful and remarkable dreams. The
dream-flower is growing now upon this
mountain of snow.

So passed my early life, Evangeline ;
for it is to you I am speaking. Your
spirit, dear one, seems to be hovering over
me in this hut ; you are but a child now ;
when you are a woman, love me not less.
You will live to hear words of deep devotion
from men's lips, but there is no being
who would endure more for your sake than
Eanf the deformed.

'' My mother said to me, —

'Ran, the old lord is dead.'

' Well ? ' I answered.

'''A new man reigns — his son. We
shall have fine times again.'

' Is he better than the lord who is
dead?'

' Fresher, younger, with blood not yet
ripened. The old lord let things run to
waste. He has palaces in which he has
not set foot for years. Think of that.'

' I am thinking of it. What will be
done with those palaces now ? '

'' They will be inhabited again ; the old
lord in his youth led a riotous life ; the

young one will do the same. There will
be hunting and feasting and love-making.
Ah, Eanf, I, too, was young once.'

' Naturally. Is this new lord rich ? '

' He could not count his money.'

' Ah ! Others will do it for him.'

*' ' Eanf,' said my mother, ' you talk as
if you knew the world.'

'' ' One does not need to mix with it to
know it.'

She came close to me. ' You are mistaken
; you know nothing ; you will be
wiser in time.'

'"I hope so. Wisdom shall have a
welcome.'

'' ' It is as bitter as gall ; you will wish
you were a hind.'

'' ' Why ? '

'' She touched my hump, and pointed to
my crooked limbs. ' You are a spoilt
man,' she said.

' Well,' I said, pretending to care
nothing for her croaking, ' if I am spoilt
for this world, I am not for the next.'

' There is no next,' she muttered
gloomily ; * this is the end of everything.'

The thought disturbed me : ' Hoar will
it be with you, Eanf, when the new lord

comes this way ? Will lie leave you your
palace, or fill it with this lacqueys ? '

I consoled myself with the reflection
that I had made good use of time and
opportunity.

I felt the necessity of being more
cautious than hitherto in my visits to the
deserted mansion. A curious temptation
assailed me. ' If,' thought I, ' I were to
meet this lord, and send him into a sleep
from which he would not awake, I should
be safe, and we both should be happy. I
could do so with my dream-flower.'

Since the news of the succession of
the new lord, the woman whom I must
continue to call my mother had shown a
hideous desire to decorate herself with
gewgaws and fine clothes, of which, to my
surprise, she had a supply. I had no idea
that she possessed hidden treasure.

' Why do you make yourself so gay r '
I asked.

** ' To please the young lord,' she answered.

' Do you think he will fall in love with
you ^

She leered at me. I had never any
respect for her ; my feeling now was one
of abhorrence.

'' One night, as I was about to leave the
deserted house, the thought intruded itself
that it might be the last time I should
ever be able to command its treasures. I
walked through every room, and bade
farewell to familiar objects ; they were
nearer to me, and more endeared than any
human creature.

The next morning, when I stole cautiously
to the spot, I observed signs of life
about the house ; persons whose faces I
could not distinguish were moving through
the rooms. My reign was over.

I retreated immediately, and, so as not
to give my mother a clue, I passed the day
in a remote part of the forest.

Upon my return to our hut my mother
said she had news for me; the new lord
would soon present himself ; his agents
and servants were preparing the estate for
his examination ; she had seen them, and
had spoken to them.

' They are taking account of everything,
Kans. There is a steward, with a
sharp face, who looks as if he would like
to count the trees and birds.'

*' ' Did he take account of you ? '

'' ' Yes, and set down my name and yours.'

'' ' Why mine ? '

'' 'You belong to the new lord, as I do.
Were you not born on his land ? Have
you not thriven on it ? '

' And upon his books and wine,' I
added mentally ; and said aloud : ' I am no
slave.'

'' You are a fool if you rebel against a
powerful master. The Mauvais are not
to be defied by such as you.'

'' ' We shall see.'

I had no thought of defiance. It was
only that I would not tamely submit to
slavery.

<« c Where are the men now ? ' I asked.

' They have gone in the direction of a
beautiful house which the old lord built
when he was young. It has not been
inhabited for years. Come, I will show it
to you.'

It was a dark night, and I followed
her to my old haunt. It was ablaze with
light. Sounds of loud laughter and singing
floated through the air.

' They are enjoying themselves, Ran.'

"eyes; the new reign has commenced
well.'

'' ' The cellars are filled with rich wine.'

' Why did you not tell me before ? We
would have feasted on it.'

'^ ' I dared not speak of the place, Ran ;
I dared not go near it. I lived there when
I was a girl.'

' And what made you afraid of it ? '

'' ' Strangle things were done there. The
old lord was wild and reckless, headstrong,
bloody.'

' Headstrong and bloody enough for
murder ? '

' Speak low. A young lady was
brought there against her will. The old
lord had taken a fancy to her, and he stole
her from her friends. She went mad,
and one morning was found dead in the
grounds.'

' Did she die a natural death ? '

'' ' No one knew.'

' You are mistaken, mother. Even I
know, who never heard the tale before.
The Mauvais must be a brave race of
men to kill young girls ! '

' You are right, Eanf ; they are as
brave as lions, and as fearless.'

'' We had approached close to the house,
and were seen. Half a dozen drunken
restorers rushed towards my mother and

seized her. Lie cried for help, and in a
moment I was engaged in a desperate
struggle. Truly I found my strength
prodigious, and my veins thrilled with
exultation as I flung the men from me
and stamped upon them. Their shouts
brought others out, and they came with
torches, and some stood about and laughed
at the fight. I have the scene before me
now; a patch of light, with torches
waving; deep darkness beyond; and I
and twenty men struggling like demons.
My mother had escaped in the confusion,
and I, taking advantage of opportunity,
found a favourable moment to leap into
the darkness.

*' ' It is an imp of hell,' I heard the men
cry as I escaped.

I overtook my mother ; she was in an
agony of fear.

' There is an end of us,' she whimpered
; ' I wish you had died at your
birth.'

"rit might have been as well,' I said.
If you did not want help you should not
have called for it.'

'' ' They will come tomorrow and whip
you.'

'^ ' It will cost them something. I owe
them gratitude ; but for them I might not
have known how glorious it is to be strong.

My mother spoke truth. In the morning
the men came to our hut, and, being
now sober, conquered me more easily than
I had expected. There were plenty of
them, and I gave them marks to show for
their pains ; but my resistance was useless ;
I was bound with ropes, set astride a
horse, and led towards the house of which
I had been master for so many years. My
enemies were free of their words, and
mocked my deformity, and taunted me in
brutal fashion for my ugliness and crookedness.
They had a monkey with them, and
they strapped it on to my hump, and jeered
at and flouted the pair of us, sa3dng we
were brothers, and that one mother bore
us. When I shut my eyes in the endeavour
to forget them, they spat in my face.

'' I could not learn what they intended
to do with me. They threatened so many
things ; to burn me, to drown me, to hang
me, to whip me to death. Could I have
invoked annihilation at any moment during
that humiliating ride, I should not have
hesitated.

We arrived at the house ; I was lifted
from the horse, and, with the monkey still
fastened to my shoulders, was set on a
height. My tormentors formed themselves
into a mock court of justice ; I was tried,
found guilty, and sentenced to be thrown
upon a stack of damp straw, which was to
be fired at every point; if I escaped
suffocation by smoke I was to be tried
again. Now, while the straw was being
collected and piled up in an open space at
some distance from the house, an unexpected
incident in the drama occurred.
A company of gentlemen on horseback
suddenly made their appearance. They
were handsomely dressed, and in gay
spirits. They reined up in front of me.

'' I was seized with a desire to mock my
fate and make light of it, not doubting
that their mood would fall in with that of
my persecutors.

"'My lords and gentlemen,' I cried,
endeavouring to incline my head towards
them, 'you have arrived in time for the
show ; a man is about to be burnt. It is
a sight worth paying for, and you shall
witness it for nothing.'

They inquired my meaning.

'Ask your equals I said, pointing to
the men who were approaching me for the
purpose of executing their threat.

The gentlemen — one in particular —
frowned, and I saw that my judges were
disconcerted by their appearance.

' Explain this,' demanded the chief of
the party.

My judges told their story in their
own lying fashion, and said they merely
intended to frighten me in a harmless way
for the injury I had inflicted upon some of
their comrades. The manner of these men
was so slavish and obsequious, and the lies
they told so outrageous, that I laughed
aloud in scorn of them.

' What have you to say ? ' asked the
gentleman.

'' ' First,' I replied, ' that if I am to be
punished for fighting single-handed against
twenty, there is no reason that another
should suffer. If you do not care to do
justice to a man, do justice to a monkey.'

The gentlemen appeared to like my
humour ; the monkey was unstrapped
from my shoulders, and I was then ordered
to tell my story. I told it, and offered to
prove it upon the bodies of two of the

most powerful of mj enemies. There was
something in me that attracted them,
some dare-devilry or defiance of fate, or
perhaps something in my speech different
from what they might have expected from
a being of my stamp. My proposal was
hailed with a shout of laughter.

' It shall be so. Knight of the Hump,'
said the chief : ' I am master here.'

^ You are Mauvais, then,' I said audaciously,
' the new lord ? '

* I am,' he replied, seemingly amused
at my boldness.

*' ' My mother has told me of you. " We
shall have fine times," she said, " now the
old lord is dead." They have commenced
well for me.'

' Is your mother here ? ' he inquired.

' No,' I said ; ' ashamed of bringing
me into the world, she is praying for my
soul while I go out of it.'

' You have a nimble tongue, hunchback.'


' There is no hump on it, my lord. If
I am to fight I must be unbound.'

'' By his order the ropes were taken
from my body, and I gave a leap in the
air. A fantastic spirit animated me, and

VOL. II. D

my wits were sharpened by the opportunity
given me for quip and repartee. A ring
was formed, within which the tournament
was to be held. Whichever one of the
three combatants stepped outside this ring
was to be driven in with whip and thong. *

The gentlemen entered into the affair
with keen enjoyment; it was rare sport
for them.

My antagonists entered the ring,
stripped to the waist. They were fine
stalwart men, and their muscles stood out
like whipcord. I measured them with my
eye ; they looked on me with scorn. I
thought to myself that it would have been
chivalrous on the part of the gentlemen to
have suggested that the battle about to
be fought was unequal, but no such idea
occurred to them.

' If I kill these men,' I said to Mauvais,
what will happen to me ? '

* I will hold you free,' he replied ; ' if
you come off victorious, you shall enter
my service, and be dressed in silk.'

'' ' Ah,' I said with a grimace, ' the
tailor will have a difficult job.'

'' Whereat the gentlemen laughed again.

Now, whether they wished me to be

victorious or not I cannot say ; I know
that they betted on the result of the battle,
as they would have done if beasts were
about to fight instead of men.

' What is your name, hunchback ? '
asked Mauvais.

' Ran,' I answered.

' I shall stake money on you.'

'' ' You are a good judge. If I lose,
you can cut off my hump. If I win, I
cry halves.'

The signal was given for the battle to
commence. There were no set rules ; we
were to fight in any way we pleased. Fora
moment or two we gazed at each other
in silence ; then the two men advanced
towards me, one undertaking to seize me,
while the other looked on and bided his
time. I gave him no time to bide. Slipping
past the active one, I seized the
other, and flung him like lightning over
my shoulder. He fell upon his head, and
lay motionless. Before my remaining
enemy could take advantage of me, I confronted
him. I saw him turn pale, and I
played with him ; I allowed him to grip
me, but he could have made as much impression
upon steel as he made upon me.
D 2

Soever till that moment was I aware of my
full strength. Gradually I slid my hands
from his shoulders to his wrists, until I
held his arms in my left hand as in a vice,
while my right was free to kill him, if I
cared to do so.

"what do you think?' I said, as I
looked him straight in the face.

' That you are leagued with the devil,'
he muttered, writhing in mortification and
shame at his disgrace.

' It was you who spat in my face,' I
said ; ' the devil I am in league with is a
foolish devil. Go; I give you your life.'

I hurled him from me, and he fell,
stunned, to the ground. Then I stepped
to Mauvais, and said, —

' I am ready for another two.'

*' ' You have done enough,' said Mauvais,
flinging me some money.

It was the first money I had ever
owned. I looked around upon the men
who had insulted me, and gathering the
money, I threw it among them, as carelessly
as it had been thrown to me.

' I will buy the hunchback of you,'
said one of the gentlemen to Mauvais.

' He is not for sale,' replied Mauvais.

So, I was a commodity, to be bought
and sold. My flesh and blood did not
belong to me.

*' Within a month my mother and I
were established in Mauyain's household,
and had soft beds to sleep in. My mother
was in her glory ; I sighed for my old life.
If I had met with one proof of human
sympathy or kindness, it might have been
different with me ; but I was surrounded
by hatred. I was feared for my strength,
and men were careful not to provoke me,
but none would associate with me. They
would not admit me into their pastimes ;
when I spoke they answered in monosyllables,
or turned from me in contemptuous
silence ; they would not eat or drink with
me; they would not touch my hand in
token of friendship. It was with women
as with men, and that hurt me more sorely ;
fresh young beauty that I innocently
admired, as I would a flower or any
other fair evidence of nature, shrank
from me as from a pestilence. Not one
kind word, not one gracious look, fell
upon my heart to blossom into gratitude or
affection.

'' It was monstrous. What crime had I

committed that I should be thus abhorred ?
The crime of having been born ?

"■ The deepest affliction of all Twas that I
myself, in the exercise of my own instincts,
found justification for the contempt and
hatred of men. Else, why should I, as
I did, turn sympathetically to objects of
beauty in animate or inanimate nature ;
why should I, as I did, love to gaze upon
what was fairest and brightest in creation ?
Had I been well shaped and straightened,
would it have been with me as
with others, and should I have regarded
physical misfortune with aversion ? I
think not, if it had appealed to me, as I,
in my first companionship with mankind,
appealed to those with whom I was thrown
into association.

Mauvais took me with him into the
busier world, where I learned to know
mankind better than in his beautiful
country home. It did not improve upon
more intimate acquaintanceship. I thought
it an honour when Mauvais lent me to his
artist friends as a model for stone or
canvas, but when I saw myself depicted asa
foil to beauty, and recognized that the
moral lesson sought to be conveyed made

me spiritually as well as bodily hideous, I
felt as if I should have loved to cut the
canvas to shreds and shatter the marble
to fragments for the injustice perpetrated
upon me. All this embittered me, and
made my way of life harder and harder as
the time went on.

Fond of his pleasures, and unscrupulous
in the pursuit of them, Mauvais was
also an ambitious man, and his ambition,
leading him to political intrigue, brought
him to a crisis in which his life was in
danger. He was compelled to fly the
country.

Of all his numerous friends, of all who
served him, he chose me to assist him in
his escape. It needed caution and courage,
for enemies were searching for him, and
there was a price upon his head. I knew
that I could earn this money, I knew that
his life was in my hands, I knew that he
had no feeling of regard for me, and that
he had only used me for his sport and
pastime ; but I did not betray him. The
service he required of me I performed
faithfully, and he received it with unthankful
indifference.

'^ It was early morning, and we stood

upon the sea-shore. The vessel wliicli was
to convey him to a land of safety lay a
mile off, its sails ready for the flight. A
boat awaited him. He was about to
step into it, without a word, when he
turned to me with a sudden impulse, and
said, —

' What will you do when I am gone ? '

' Be my own master,' I replied ; ' I
have had one; I am glad to be rid of him.'

He laughed gaily ; he was a man of
courage, and though every additional
moment might be fatal, he lingered, because
it was his whim to linger.

** ' You are a bit of a student, Ran,' he
said ; ' Heaven knows how you acquired
your knowledge, but you have some, and I
think you understand human nature. I
am curious to know why you have served
me faithfully in this last perilous mission.
You might have earned money by giving
me up. You have no love for me, I know ;
you know I have nothing but contempt
for you ; you might have had my life.
Why have you served me now, at the risk
of your own ? '

' Question for question,' I said; 'answer
mine first. Why of all the men by whom

you were surrounded did you entrust your
life to my keeping ? '

'^ ' Because,' lie replied, with a frank
smile, ' of all the men by whom I was
surrounded you were the one who, giving
evidence against me, would be least likely
to be believed. JSTo one trusts you, Ran.
Had you said to my enemies, " Search to
the left," they would have searched to the
right. Had you told them the truth, they
would have instantly concluded you were
putting them off the scent. That is the
reason I employed you.'

' You had not even respect for me ? '

' Not the slightest, hunchback.'

His contemptuous tone did not sting
me ; I was used to it.

'' ' We are not,' I said, ' equals even at
this moment, when your life hangs upon a
thread ! '

' Equals ! ' he exclaimed. ' To prove
to you how far we are removed, I have a
mind to stop and show you how a gentleman
can die.'

'' ' Do not trouble yourself,' I said, with
some sort of admiration for him ; ' death
comes from one cause in man and gentleman
; it is really whether one can or cannot

breathe. So we are very far removed !
Intellectually ? '

' As far as the poles.'

' It is a comforting belief. Now I will
answer your question.'

' Aye, do ; I had almost forgotten it.'

' You want to know why I have saved
your life at the risk of my own. It was
the least I could do in return for the
amusement you have afforded me. Then,
you have protected me ; I could do no less
by you. Again, you have never stepped
between me and my whims. Not in one of
your pleasures have I taken an interest.
Not for one of the women you have followed
have I felt a spark of admiration. I have
laughed at you often ; you thought they
were your slaves. You were mistaken ;
you were theirs. My mind is not as
crooked as my body, and it might have
been that some woman, or some child,
who touched your inner life might also
have touched mine. If that had been the
case, and you had wronged, or to my
knowledge harboured a thought of wrong
towards the being I had an affection
for—'

''I paused. With a patronizing, disdainful

smile Ripon his handsome face
Mauvais said, —

'' ' Proceed. I do not know when I
have been so interested.'

"I cast my eyes to the ground, and
searched for the largest pebbles on the
shore. I deliberately selected two, and,
holding them in one hand, crushed them
into fragments.

' Symbolical,' said Mauvais, ' and expressive.'


"but,' said I, 'these stones have no
soul; you have, and it should not have
escaped me.'

CHAPTER III.

EANF's Experiences IN THE WOPiLD.

'' Mauvais being gone, I was my own
master; I could wander where I pleased,
and could choose my own mode of life.
My foretaste of the world's ways and of
the ways of men had not been pleasant,
but I was a free man now, and might meet
with a better kind of justice.

Wondering a little what had become
of my mother, whom I had not seen for
many months, I made my way back to the
forest in which my early life had been
passed. I went first to the hut; it was
deserted. I sought her then, and found
her, in Mauvais's fine house. She was
alone ; no person but herself was within
hail. She asked me for news of Mauvais,
and I told her of his peril and escape.

' It was noble of him to trust you,'
she said.

' He trusted me because lie despised
me ; he told me as much.'

' He lias a right to despise us ; we are
of a different make from such as lie.'

"ewe are flesh and blood; kings are
no more than that.'

I inquired for the servants, and my
mother related to me how, when they
heard that a price was set upon Mauvais's
head, they had fled like rats, loaded with
treasure. Leontine, of all the men and
women in Mauvais's service, there was
not one who was not a thief. He had
been liberal to them, and they had fattened
on his generosity; in his prosperity they
had fawned upon him, in his downfall they
despoiled him. Such is the value of the
service which waits upon the rich and
powerful.

The grounds and gardens around the
house, and every room in it, bore token to
the work of spoliation. Trees had been
hacked, flower-beds trodden down; the
furniture had been tossed about, and much
of it broken ; glasses were shattered, and
wine had been spilt on all the floors. So
wanton had been the work of destruction
that hatred must have sprung from the

remembrance of favours received. Every
step I took showed me a new evidence of
man's ingratitude.

' Eanf,' said I, communing with myself,
' sigh not for riches, or power, or
fame. The poor are the best off, and
obscurity is a blessing.'

The library, in which I had spent my
happiest days, had not been spared;
statues were shattered, pictures defaced,
and books torn from their bindings. This
wasteful wickedness affected me as much
as if my own body had been made to suffer.

'' ' Did you help these crawlers,' I said to
my mother, ' or look on in silence ? '

'' ' I tried to prevent the destruction,'
she replied, ' and they beat me and
threatened to burn me. I was lucky to
escape.'

I asked her what she intended to do
now. She said she should live in the
house unless she were forcibly removed,
and should take care of it till Mauvais
returned.

' You think he will return ? '

' Oh, yes. What has happened once
will happen again. And you, E-anf, you
will stop with me ? '

' I do not know. What could I do
here ? '

'' ' Stop and play the lord,' she said
coaxingly, * and let me attend on you. I
will be your servant.'

* A fine idea. We will commence at
once ; to-night I will sleep in the bed of a
lord.'

She hobbled away to make Mauvais's
room ready for me ; the fancy tickled her,
for I heard her chuckling to herself.

She waited upon me that night, as
though I were a prince. I gave myself
the airs of one, and she declared that I
aped a great man's manners to perfection.

' It is only my hump that blocks the
way,' I said, ' and a few other trifling
imperfections, such as crooked limbs and
odd features. If you were a grand lady,
how would you behave ? '

' I would stamp upon those beneath
me ! ' she cried venomously. * They should
be whipped and starved ! '

' You have a wholesome mind. How
happy I ought to be that you are my
mother ! '

She followed me to Mauvais's bedroom
with lighted candles, and said.

Good night, my lord son.' She would
have embraced me, but I put her from me ;
I had no feeling of affection for her. Had
I known, Leontine, how it would have
been with her when I looked upon her face
again, I should have pressed her hand and
have bidden her a solemn farewell.

As I undressed myself for bed I felt
in my pocket a small phial containing a
liquid I had distilled from the dream-flower.


' Could a man command his dreams,'
I thought, ' half his life might be passed in
heaven, however wretched his lot. The
soldier would dream of conquests, the
poet of fame, and fools of love.'

I inhaled from the phial, murmuring
again, ' And fools of love ! ' and fell into a
deep sleep. I was haunted by a dream of
a veiled face, the face of a woman, which
accompanied me in a myriad fantastic
and extravagant adventures, wooing me toit,
drawing me after it by a spell to which
I gladly yielded, over fields of flowers,
through forests of eternal night, through
clouds, and caverns, and shining water, and
in the wild tangle of these fancies keeping
evil from me and turning me from evil.

Not once did this face present itself clearly
to my imagination ; but it was fair and
beautiful, I knew; and ever and again in
my dreams came a murmur like music,
now sweet and tender, now passionate and
wild, ' and fools of love ! *

I awoke in the middle of the night ;
the bright stars were out, and a soft,
mysterious light bathed field and forest.
I arose and dressed myself, and quietly
stole from the house. ' I will not live
a life of mockery,' I thought. ' I wall
see more of men ; I will go into the
world.'

Leontine, I was juggling with myself.
Even you know that I was moved by other
promptings, that in the depths of my
soul burned a painful yearning for a being
to love, to tend, to care for, to live for, to
die for. ' I envied the very birds in their
nests. No living creature's life is complete
that lives without a mate.

'^ Perhaps in some corner of the world a
fair face was waiting for me, such as had
followed me in my dreams, whose eyes,
touched by an angel's hand, would see
that I was a man to be pitied, and not
unworthy to be loved. I must have been

VOL. II. E

mad to hope it ; but we are not masters of
the springs which control the inner life.

"Before me stretched the meadows,
enamelled with flowers ; within each little
cup lay Nature's kiss, the diamond drop
of life; beyond the meadows loomed the
profound depths of the forest. My road
was in that direction, and I plunged into
the leafy wood, and drank from a favourite
stream, and lingered a little, believing I
should never see these familiar friends
again.

' Farewell,' I said, as I gazed around
with a feeling of pleasant melancholy,
never more shall the echo of my voice be
heard within this forest.'

"So I went forth into the world to
distant countries where I was not known,
meeting — as I might have guessed had I
not been a credulous fool — with no better
fate than had hitherto attended me. In
whatever place I showed my form I was
jeered and laughed at; my hump was an
inspiration to mockery ; children ran after
me, laughing and shouting, and when I
turned upon them, more frequently in pity
than in anger, they fled in affright. If I
presented myself at a village fete, mirth

was checked, the music ceased, and the
dancers gave me ample elbow-room. I
could not win the favour of man, woman,
or child; it was impressed upon me in
every possible way that I was an embodiment
of evil. ' The wine tastes like
vinegar,' I have heard said as I was
standing near. Never did I commit a
wrong ; but I was often dragged before
authority on suspicion. In those straits
my wits did me good service, for it was
not possible to trace any direct evil to
my door. But I was always directed to
leave the place quickly. I may truly say
that the setting of every sun added to the
bitterness of knowledge. Sometimes at
the end of a weary day I would enter an
inn, choosing always the commonest and
humblest; and although I never asked
for charity, it was invariably indicated
to me that my presence was an intrusion.
I had then to insist upon my rights ; but
the unwelcome guest is not to be envied.
I was not always amiably inclined, and,
when the mood served, I took a savage
and just delight in paying men in their
own coin, snarl for snarl, and blow for

blow.

LIBRARY

^ ^ ^ UNIVERSITY OF

I had some curious lessons, the most
irreconcilable being those in which crime
looked with contempt upon misfortune.
I was benighted, and there was no chance
of my sleeping under a roof. Another
man in the wood was in the same plight.
He had gathered branches, and had kindled
a fire, by the side of which he was sitting
when I came up to him in the dark night.
I asked permission to warm myself by
his fire. He lifted a blazing branch and
examined me. By the light of the branch
we were enabled to see each other clearly.
He had an evil face, ripe for the gallows.
With foul words, reviling my deformity
and ugliness, he bade me begone, crying
out, in a tone of brutal scorn, how dared
I presume to thrust myself upon his
company, and that he thanked — well, he
said God (meaning it as much as most
men who use the term) that he was in
the habit of associating with better men
than I ! It made me wonder to hear the
man, who seemed fit only to associate
with gaol-birds, speak to me with so
much arrogant assumption. I could
with ease have driven him from the
spot, and taken possession of the fire, but

it was Ms, and I did not care to commit
an injustice.

Three months afterwards I saw this
man executed for murder. And yet he
deemed me unfit company.

"Now and then it happened that an
artist, struck by my figure, would stop
and invite me to his studio. I allowed
myself to be used in that way — having
served my apprenticeship in Mauvais's
service — for it became my principal means
of gaining a livelihood. I found myself
sometimes side by side with beauty — I,
with my hairy skin exposed, in contact
with beauty's fair presentment. A rare
contrast, and beauty would regard me
with inward aversion, being compelled,
when we posed for nymph and satyr, to
look into my ugly face with eyes of love.
Not seldom I shared my gains with these
fair moulds, for beauty was easy to pickup,
and its price was low. The world is
full of flowers. I was not so common a
creature, and I exacted high terms. A
day in a studio has often provided me
with food for a month.

On a well-remembered night, I was
sitting by myself in the public room of a

house of entertainment. A man entered
and beckoned me out.

' You came into the town this evening,'
he said.

' I did; I replied.

'' ' By the eastern road.'

'You are right.'

'' ' You are the man. I cannot be
mistaken.'

' Not easily. There is only one of
me.'

'* He looked at me with a peculiar
smile. ' My master wishes to see you.'

' Who is your master ? '

*' ' A rich man.'

' Does he know me ? '

'' ' He caught a glimpse of you this
evening as he rode past in his carriage.'

' I have some of its mud upon me.
Enamoured of what he saw, he wishes
to examine me more closely. Is he an
artist ? '

' No. But he will pay you well if
you come.'

*' ' Well, I am for sale. Give me an
earnest.'

He offered me a piece of gold.

' I want two pieces,' I said.

He gave them to me, and I followed
him to a mansion in the wealthiest part
of the town. Music was playing, lights
were glittering. Carriages drew up to
the gates of entrance, and ladies and
gentlemen, fantastically dressed, alighted
and entered the house. A crowd of
townspeople stood about the gates to seethe
gay company, and greeted this person
with laughter, and that with a buzz of
admiration. I drew back.

'' ' Your master wants to make a show
of me.'

' He thought you would suppose so,
and he directed me to say that you are
wrong. He wishes, for his own satisfaction,
to see you alone. I am to take you
to his private study, and we are to enter
by this side-door.'

The study was as sumptuously furnished
as any room in Mauvais's house.
It was evident that its proprietor was a
man of wealth and taste. As I was
examining its art treasures, I heard a voice
behind me.

"' Don't turn, hunchback. I am the
master here, and I have a fancy to speak
to you for a moment or two without a

face-to-face meeting. If you are not
afraid of me, humour me.'

' I am afraid of no man. It pays to
humour the rich; I will humour you.'

'' ' You speak well. This hump of
yours must be packed with wisdom.'

'' ' You are mistaken ; it is packed with
sorrow.'

'• ' You have scored again. You seem
interested in my works of art. Do you
understand them ? '

^ Listen. I will act the critic'

With vanity, in display of which I felt
a curious contempt of myself, I criticized
the objects in the room, after the fashion
of a connoisseur, my unseen host interposing
from time to time with ' Well
judged ! ' ' Excellent ! ' ' Well done, ragged
philosopher ! '

' Have you had enough ? ' I asked.

' Yes, you are at liberty now.'

I turned, and started back in amazement.
Before me stood a frightful likeness
of myself, truly a frightful double,
for Nature had treated the owner of the
treasures I had criticized even more
scurvily than she had treated me. My
ugliness was beauty, my shape graceful.

my limbs symmetrical, in comparison with
his.

He in his turn examined me narrowly,
and a frown gathered on his face.

'' * You said to my servant,' said the
monster, ' that there was only one of you.
What do you say now ? '

' That you give me consolation.
Nature, I thank you. I pay for my
pleasures. Here.'

'^ I held out to him the two pieces of
gold I had received from his servant. He
took them with a grimace, and pocketed
them with a bow, saying, —

*" It is the first money I have ever
earned. What do you think of me ?
Sum me up in a word.'

'' ' Hideous.'

<c « Worse than you ? '

6t c horse than three of me. I shall
sleep well to-night.'

' Insolent cripple ! ' he cried, laughing
like a hyena. ' How dare you speak thus
to the great ? I can see hunger in your
eyes; your clothes are so full of holes
that you are compelled to make a purse
of your fist ! It would have been better
for you had you been worse than you

are. Yon would be glad to change places
mali me.'

' Not for the largest jewel yon could
offer me.'

' You lie ! How much money have
you ? '

'' ' As much as will cheat starvation for
three times twenty-for hours ;' and I
spat a small piece of silver on his fine
carpet.

' Ah, that's your purse, is it? Beggar,
look here.'

'' He thrust his hands into his pockets,
and drew them out, filled with money,
which he let fall upon my silver piece, ina
golden shower. He opened the drawers
of cabinets, and drew forth more gold,
which he rained upon the carpet.

' It is all mine,' he said ; ' I have more
than I can spend. You'll change your
mind.'

'' ' Not I. What can your gold do for
you t

'*' I will show you presently, if you have
a mind to see.'

'''I am ready enough; but I thought
I had seen all that the world can show.
Of one thin Of I am certain ; your gold

cannot buy you one look or Tvord of
affection.'

' Wiseacre ! There are no tongues
more eloquent, no eyes more loving, than
those which gold commands. You shall
judge for yourself. I invite you to become
my guest to-night.'

' I shall do you honour,' I said, holding
out my rags.

'' ' You are fittingly attired. A fancy
ball is held in my house. You will see
rich men in sackcloth and beggars in
velvet. The sight will repay you.'

' I consent. Give me a cup of wine
first; I am faint.'

He brought forward two long slender
glasses of the thinnest glass, and filled
them with rich wine. We touched brims.

'' ' To you, my handsome brother,' he
said.

I never saw a more brilliant company
than was assembled within those walls,
nor a more lavish display of wealth, nor
women more graceful and fair. I was at
my ease, for there were men among the
guests disguised as monkeys, and some as
devils, and some as goats. Some looked
at me, and asked each other, —

'' ' What is that ? How well it is done !
One would think it was real ! '

'' And others replied with a laugh, —
' Almost as real as our host.'
All through the night people gathered
round this strange host, and flattered him
and sought his favour. The youngest and
most beautiful women hung upon his arm,
and cast languishing glances at him, and
inclined their lovely heads to his deformed
shoulders ; and as he passed me, toying
with their velvety fingers, he looked up at
me — he was even shorter than I — and
cried, —

' How is this, brother ? '
'' These words addressed to me by one
so rich and powerful, gave me distinction,
and I found myself courted by those fair
women to whom my host had no time to
pay attention. Yes, in my rags — which
they believed to be a disguise — and with
my rough speech and manners — which they
believed to be assumed — I was an object
of attraction to those creatures, who were
ready to sacrifice themselves on the golden
shrine. But I saw through their paint and
worldliness, and was not in the humour
even to amuse myself with them. But it

was wonderful ; the more morose my bearing
the more fascinating their ways ; and
no rudeness of mine could shake them off.

When the gaiety was at its height a
loud voice rang through the great hall
calling for silence, and a gentleman
stepped upon a pedestal. All eyes were
turned towards him, every tongue was
hushed. He held in his hand a golden
tankard, and he commenced by saying
that he had been asked to propose the
health of the host of this princely entertainment.
Before doing so he launched
into an extravagant panegyric of the
noble qualities of the man who had drawn
together all the beauty, wit, and intellect
of the city. Their host, said the orator,
was a patron of the arts, a worshipper of
the beautiful. Would there were more
like him ! (When I heard that I looked
at his hump, and thought of my own.)
The rudest case often contained the
brightest jewel. Which was valued most,
the fruit or its rind ? Their host had the
soul of a god.

The hall rang with acclamations, and
hundreds of voices testified to the value of
the orator's figures of speech. For my

part, I was weary and disgusted, and in
the midst of the adulation I left the hall
and sought the study. The gold still lay
upon the carpet. Throwing myself upon
it, I gave myself up to slumber. In less
than an hour I was unceremoniously
awakened.

' Else and depart,' cried the man who
had called me brother ; ' you have missed
fortune to-night. Had you excelled mein
deformity I would have made you rich.'

' When I am tempted to rail at fate,' I
said, ' I shall think of you. I thank you
for the lesson you have given me. I see
now what gold can buy.'

*' ' Everything ! ' he exclaimed triumphantly.


'' ' Lip-service — yes,' I said ; ' heart-service
— never. Where is the woman who
in her dreams would breathe your name
in accents of love ? '

He shook his head sadly. ' Go,' he
said with a sigh, ' and leave me in my
paradise. The shadow in the mirror is not
real ; but if it were not for its visions life
would be a curse too heavy to bear.'

*" I pity you. Pay me.'

'' He pointed to the money on the ground,

and bade me take as much as I pleased.
I took six pieces. He regarded me Y/ith
wonder.

' Take more,' lie said.

' jS'o/ I answered, ' you may need it
one day.'

' Have I not told you I have more than
I can spend ? Before I was born men
were hoarding for me. I have so much
gold that I have had my coffin made of it.'

He drevf back a panel in the wall, and
in the recess, truly enough, lay a coffin of
massive gold. Strong as I was, I could
not lift it.

' It is not as light as an angel's wings,'
I said. ' Do you intend to be buried in
it?'

"aye.'

' It is a dangerous conceit.'

' Why ? '

* Gold is the heaviest of all the metals.
If anything happens to the earth, you and
your coffin will sink to the bottomless pit.'

'* With that I took my departure, the
sound of soft music dwelling in my ears.

I kept no count of the seasons that
followed; hard fortune was my constant
companion ; I did not make one human

friend, and at the end of many years I
confessed to myself that my venture into
the world had been the direst failure that
man had ever made. The fair face I had
seen in my dreams the last night I had
passed in Mauvais's house never crossed
my path of life. ' Perhaps in another life
I thought, ' I may meet with it.'

'' A time came when I was in a desperate
plight. Fever had weakened me ; misfortune
clung to me. Contemplating my
future, I decided that the only course
open to me — except death, which I could
have reached quickly — was to return to
the forest in which I had been born,
and there spin out the remainder of my
days.

'' The moment the thought entered my
mind I was comforted. That forest belonged
to me, and I to it ; in it were trees
I had marked and slept under ; walks with
which my feet were familiar ; woodland
peeps, the remembrance of which brought
a tender smile to my lips ; mountain
springs at which I had slaked my thirst.
There was not a turn of the land which
did not recall some incident in my life.
Yes, my better spirit was there ; the very

birds and squirrels would welcome me as a
friend.

I was a thousand miles away, and I
endured incredible hardships before I
reached it. During the whole of the
seemingly interminable days that succeeded
the first suggestion of my purpose,
I was in a state of fever. Pain racked my
bones, thirst tormented me. Do I say this
to excite your pity for me, Evangeline ?
No, my child ; these lines are the simple
record of an unhappy life ; most forlorn,
wretched, and hopeless until you brought
a gleam of sunshine into it which even
on this dark night and in this lonely
hut, within which no human voice but
mine has ever been heard, sheds a light of
gladness all around me. I have made
Leontine familiar with your name. When
I call it, as I do now, he starts to his feet,
and looks around in pleasurable anticipation.
She is not here, Leontine. Evangeline
sleeps in the valley below. Good
angels guard her dreams, and sweeten
them.

The weary road was traversed at last,
and when my eyes met the first familiar
landmark, an ancient beech-tree, in the

VOL. II. F

trunk of which I had cut a gigantic E, I
placed mj arms upon it, and kissed it
more tenderly than I had ever kissed
human face. I was no longer a stranger
in the world ; I had a home.

My spirit's gladness was an elixir. I
went first to the old hut ; signs of habitation
were about. Had my mother returned
to it ? I called ; no voice answered me. I
pushed open the door. My mother's bed
was at the farther end, and it was occupied.
I stepped towards it, and on the
straw mattress lay my mother, dead, and
by her side, asleep, a child in whose curls
the sunlight was playing.

CHAPTER lY.

Rank CLAIMS EVANGELINE AS HIS OWN.

I STOOD like a man in a dream gazing
upon this startling union of life and death
of death in its most chilling aspect, of
life in its fairest. And yet, although it
was apparent to me that the years that had
passed since 1 last looked upon my mother's
face had not improved her, the manner of
her death was such as she would have
deserved had she lived a worthier life.
Both sleep and death were peaceful, and
the fresh pure breath of innocence flowed
over the face of one from whose lips I had
never heard the expression of a tender
thought.

My mother had not been long dead ;

her body still retained the warmth of life

but just departed. She must have hushed

the child to sleep, and lying by her

F 2

side, have yielded up her spirit to its
Creator. The fever of her Hfe was spent.
She had lived the full span, but I doubted
if there existed a human creature who,
hearing she had gone, would have said,
Rest in peace ! ' Like a weed run to
waste lay my mother; like a sweet and
lovely flower lay the child. By what
mysterious link were living sunrise and
dead night united ? I searched the hut fora
clue, and I made two discoveries : one of
a few pieces of gold in a wooden cup, the
other of a Bible, on the fly-leaf of which
was written in straggling characters which
I recognized as my mother's, ' Ran —
Mauvais,' and beneath these names,
another, ' Evangeline.' There was nothing
strange in the circumstance of my mother
thus bringing into association the two
beings most closely connected with her
life ; but that their names should be
written in a Bible ! Here was matter for
reflection. Jot only to my knowledge had
my mother never possessed a Bible, but I
had never known her open the pages of one.
The book I held then in my hand was
small, and was fastened with silver clasps ;
some of the leaves stuck together, probably

from damp, a proof that it had been lately
but little used. I put it carefully away,
and it is now in the hut in which I am
making this record.

'* The discovery of the gold and the
Bible afforded no clue to the mystery of
the child's presence; the third name,
Evangeline, which I supposed to be the
child's, was not of any value as testimony.
The only other unaccustomed object which
rewarded my search was a baby's shoe.

It hurt me that the sleeping child
should be so close to death, and I gathered
and made a bed of dry leaves upon the
ground, and softly raising the child, placed
her upon it. A spirit of hope and happiness
entered my heart as I held the
beautiful flower in my arms. The child had
been sent to me from heaven; faithfully
would I guard the sacred trust.

'' I carried the body of my mother from
the hut, and laid it in the forest's shade, ina
spot suitable for a grave, which I determined
to dig that night. Then I returned
to the hut, and sat by the side of the child,
waiting for her to awake. I felt that a
terrible ordeal awaited me in the moment
of her awaking from her slumber. If she

shrank from me, terrified at my uncouth
appearance, I vowed never to meet the
face of man again. I would go and herd
with the beasts, as being fit only for the
society of the lower creatures of the earth.
A judgment was about to be pronounced
upon me.

The child opened her eyes, and looked
at me calmly and without fear. I held
out my arms to her, and she accepted the
shelter. Tears of gratitude rolled down
my beard. All my fife I had been fighting
with demons; now, an angel was on my
side.

I sat with her Httle hand in mine, and
her soft cheek nestling against my hairy
face. Only for a few moments did I allow
myself the enjoyment of this new and
wonderful happiness, being impressed with
the necessity of finding a home for the
child, in which she could receive womanly
care and attention. I knew of but one
such within easy distance, a house almost
as lonely as my mother's hut, in which informer
years I had seen a woman at work :
it was called the Forest Farm. Thro wine:
an old shawl of my mother's round the
child, I proceeded in the direction of the

farm, taking with me the gold I "had found
in the cup. The sun was setting when I
reached my destination. The rooks were
clustering for rest ; an old man was driving
a cow into a shed ; a dog rushed at me,
and stood stock-still, arrested in his contemplated
attack by my disregard of him,
and another, a savage beast, secured by a
stout chain, came from his kennel, and
growled at me furiously. I took no notice
of these creatures, but walked straight to
the door of the farm-house, and pushing it
open, saw the woman who lived there
when I was a lad. She had grown
prematurely old ; the healthy colour in her
face had fled, and her hair was almost
white. She stared at me in terror,
and made as though she would fly from
me.

*' ' There is no cause for fear,' I said ;
'I am not a ghost. My name is Ran.'

'' ' Ran ! ' she cried. ' The deformed
son of the evil woman in the hut yonder ! '

' The same,' I replied. ' I carry my
credentials on my shoulders.'

'' ' The good Lord save us ! ' she ejaculated.


' Amen,' I said.

' We heard that you were dead.'

' It is not true, you see. You knew
my mother.'

' I have seen her.'

' It is she who is dead.'

'' ' What is that to me?'

' Nothing. I have come to ask you todo
a Christian act.'

'' ' I will have nothing to do with her ! '
screamed the woman. ' I will not touch
the witch ! '

*' ' Witch or no witch,' I said, discovering
the reputation my mother had gained for
herself, ' she is done with this world. I
come on behalf of the living, not the dead.
See here, dame ; you will not turn me
away — you would not have the heart ! I
have no home to offer this little one. She
needs a woman's care ; I have gold, and
can pay you.'

'' ' Yes, yes,' muttered the woman ; ' weare
poor.'

My object was gained. I gave the
child into her arms. She looked at our
faces, comparing them.

' Not yours ? ' she asked.

' Mine,' I replied boldly.

' I have seen some of Nature's tricks,'

she said, 'but never such a trick as
this.'

'* ' Nature owed me reparation,' I said,
and she makes it in the form of this
child. It is a trick on the right side,
dame. Better the little one should be
comely and fair than in my likeness.'

' It is better, yes, it is better ; but I am
thinking of the mother.'

'' ' The child has no mother.'

'dead?'

' Dead ! ' I repeated mechanically.

Then, the woman's poverty being
on my side, I made terms with her,
paying her in advance, and saying I
should come every day to see my child.
So I tenderly kissed the little one and
left her.

It was night before I got back to my
hut. Everything was as I had left it;
nothing had been disturbed. I was careful
in my observation of things, deeming it
possible that some person connected with
the child would visit the hut. There was,
however, no sign. Another duty was to
be performed before I retired to rest ; my
mother's grave was not yet dug. It was
soon done, and in the solemn stillness of

the night I laid the inanimate clay in its
forest bed. I covered it with sweet herbs
and piled the earth above it. ' Good-night,
mother,' I said ; ' your death has brought
sunlight to my soul.' Then I threw myself
upon the bed of leaves I had made for
Evangeline, and enjoyed such repose as had
not visited me for years.

I was up early in the morning, and off
to the forest farm. The child had been
well cared for, and to my delight recognized
me. She came to me willingly, and I took
her into the open, and talked and sang to
her, making her laugh, and laughing with
her. I was enjoying my own childhood, of
which I had been robbed. Everything in
earth and air wore a new robe, the robe
of spring. The clouds were brighter, the
earth more fragrant, the woodland voices
sweeter, than they had ever been. Such
happiness, Evangeline, did you bring to a
man driven to the brink of despair by
misfortune and injustice.

Months passed without the occurrence
of any event to disturb my new and better
life. No person came near the hut to
inquire for Evangeline ; the mystery
which surrounded her was not touched by

time, needless to say here that it occupied
my thoughts. From whom had my
mother obtained the child, and for what
reason had so sweet a flower been doomed
to seclusion and to companionship utterly
unsuitable to childhood ? I could supply
no answer to these questions, and fearful
that my happiness should be disturbed, I
kept myself secluded, and sought no society
but that of Evangeline and the woman who
had charge of her.

I renewed my woodland studies. I
had no longer any books to assist me, but
I found sufficient to interest me in the
forest around my hut. Who is it who said,
placing his hand upon a mossy glade,
Beneath this palm is more than enough
for the study of a lifetime ' ? It is true.
We need not go abroad to learn.

'^ At length a new direction was given to
the calm current of my life. The hunting
season commenced, and as in the days of
Mauvais's prosperity, the forest resounded
with the music of the horn, the barking of
dogs, and the voices of men. I recognized
at once the importance of this change, and
out of the possibilities which might spring
from it I could extract no good sign for me

or Evangeline. My thoughts naturally
reverted to Mauvais. Had he returned
from exile, and renewed his old life of
selfish pleasures ? Curiosity conquered
prudence, and one morning I found myself
on the road leading to the fine house in
which I had left my mother when I went
forth into the world. It was tenanted,
and by a gay company. What did this
forebode to me ? Discovery ? How to
avoid it ? To fly from the forest was not
to be thought of. There was no place in
the world for me, and I dared not subject
Evangeline to a renewal of the sufferings
I had undergone.

'' I retraced my steps to the hut, so
wrapt in thought that I did not observe
the approach of a storm. Night came on
quickly with the darkening of the clouds.
The wind howled round my hut ; the rain
poured down in a deluge.

It was only the day before that I had
discovered the dream-flower; I had searched
for it for weeks, the spot in which it originally
grew having undergone change from
tempest, perhaps from such a tempest as
that now raging through the forest. It was
well to be indoors on such a night. Heaven

help those poor creatures who, in such
weather, have no roof to cover their
heads !

I was busy with the flowers, distilling
the liquid from the slender stems, when,
in the midst of the storm, I heard a beating
at the door. Had discovery come ? Had
I been seen and tracked ? I waited in
silence. The knocking was renewed.

' Do the dead live here ? ' cried a
voice.

' No,' I answered.

' Open the door ! ' cried the man without,
in an insolent tone, ' or I will beat it
down.'

'' The threat did not alarm me ; the
door was securely barred, and more thana
man's strength was needed to force an
entrance.

'' ' Your tone is not civil,' I said ; ' seek
shelter elsewhere.'

' There is none near. I have a lady
with me ; for the love of Grod give her
shelter till I obtain assistance to convey
her home ! If you refuse, it will be worse
for you in fine weather than it is for us in
foul ! '

I unbarred the door, and a man

entered, carrying in this arms a young and
beautiful woman in a state of insensibility.

' Who in the devil's name are you ? '
lie asked, when he had laid his burden
down.

'' ' A misshapen man,' I replied, ' upon
whom you need not waste a thought.
Do you belong to one of the hunting
parties ? '

'' Yes, and having been overtaken by
the storm, have lost our way in this bewildering
forest. My lady here, whom I
was attending, got separated from her
party ; her horse threw her, and mine ran
away, like an ungrateful brute, when T
jumped down to assist her.'

'' ' What do you propose to do ? '

' To go for a carriage, if you will show
me a way out of this wilderness.'

'*I asked him in which direction he
wished to go, and he answered in the
direction of Mauvais's house. He did
not mention Mauvais's name, and for my
part, troubled as I was by the thought
that this adventure was almost certain to
bring me bad fortune, I did not prompt
him to it.

'the lady lay insensible upon the ground.

and I suggested that it would be best to
wait till she recovered, lest she should
be terrified at finding herself alone in my
lonely hut. So we waited awhile, and
presently she opened her eyes. Then the
man, speaking in a more deferential tone
than that he had used to me, explained to
her the position of affairs, and begged her
respectfully to keep within the shelter
they had gained until he succeeded in
bringing her a carriage to convey her
from the forest. There was reason in
his words, for the storm had increased
in fury, and it was impossible for so
delicate a creature to venture out in it
afoot.

'' ' But I cannot stay here alone,' she
said, after assenting to the plan ; ' it would
be too terrible.'

' If you will have courage for a few
minutes,' I said, ' I will return when I
have shown your servant the way out of
the forest.'

She consented by a gesture, and I
accompanied her servant from the hut, and
put him on his road.

'"If any one speaks to you of this,' he
said, ' you will bear me harmless.'

"• ' You have a liard master, then ? ' I
asked.

'' ' Hard and soft he replied.

'''1 understand. Hard to those beneath
him, soft to those above him.'

' You are right and wrong ; it is
dangerous to anger him.'

' Is the lady his wife ? '

'' ' No.'

' His daughter ? '

' No.'

' A blood relation, then ? '

'' ' Ask no more questions. What she
is to him and he to her is none of your
business.'

' True. I will hold you harmless on
one condition.'

'* ' It is cool of you to make conditions.
What am I to do in return ? '

' Say nothing of me. Do not mention
that you have seen such a man as I in the
forest.'

' That is easy. Agreed.'

' Enough said, then. Follow this path
to the left for a quarter of a mile, and you
will see the house before you.'

I was about to leave him when he laid
his hand upon my shoulder.

' I warn sou,' he said. ' Be civil to my
lady, or you will find yourself in a hornet's
nest.'

'* ' Yon are more fool than knave,' I
replied. ' Speed swiftly back, and take
my lady home to my lord.'

'^ I myself sped quickly to my hut, with
a feeling curiously mingled of pity and
contempt for the fair creature to whom I
had given shelter. ' What she is to him
and he to her is none of your business.'
These words branded the woman with
shame.

But when I saw her sitting at my
table with an expression of deepest sadness
on her face, pity only filled my breast.
Truly she was fair, and innocent, and pure-minded,
unless Nature lied. Her servant
had maligned her.

' I returned as soon as I could,' I said ;
I will stay outside the hut if you wish
it.'

' Why should you do that ? ' she asked,
with a wistful look.

' I am not generally a favourite,' I
said bluntly ; ' my shape is against me.'

' You are to be pitied for it.'

'' Her plaintive voice brought tears to

VOL. II, G

mj eyes, and she, observing them, asked
me to pardon her.

' You have seen misfortune,' she
said.

'' ' The bitterest ; but I have lived
thrush it. It is not often that man or
woman, looking upon me for the first
time, have given me greeting as gentle as
yours.'

'' * I, too, have seen misfortune,' she
said with a sigh. 'Do you live here
alone ? '

' Yes.'

'' ' Have you no kindred ? Are you
utterly, utterly alone ? '

' No,' I said softly, ' I have a child.'

She turned from me with a sob of
grief, and for a little while no further
words were spoken. I wondered to see so
young and winsome a woman in such
trouble, but life's storms spare neither
high nor low, rich nor poor. It occurred
to me that her sorrow might have some
association with a child, and I was about
to ask her, when I noticed (her left hand
being unloved) that she wore no wedding-ring
; so I refrained, and waited until she
chose to break the silence.

' You have a child ! How happy you
must be ! A girl ? '

'' ' Yes.'

' I hope not — ' But she stopped
suddenly, and bit her lip, red blood flushing
her face.

' No,' I said, ' not like me. She is
well formed.'

' I am glad — forgive me.'

' There is nothing to forgive.'

' Love is expressed in your voice.
You would not like to lose your child.'

'' ' I should not care to live without
her.'

She shivered, as though she were cold.
There was a fire in the hut, and I urged
her to draw nearer to it for warmth, but
she refused. On the table, imbedded in
earth, lay some shoots of the dream-flower.
She asked the name of the flower, and I
told her.

' The dream-flower ! ' she said, in a
low tone. ' Does it really make you dream ?'

' It has in it qualities which induce
sleep, and, sometimes, happy dreams.'

*' ' Ah ! ' she sighed. " If I could dream
my life over again ! Of what might have
been ! Of love so sweet and beautiful, of
G 2

love so base and treacherous ! I should
commence with my childhood, and I should
linger there, among calm and happy days.
Let me think of them, let me think of
them, and of those who loved me ! If I
could have died then, with loving hands
clasping mine ! But it was not to be. I
was doomed to live and suffer. Father,
sister, child, torn from me — '

'^ She had risen, and was standing by
the side of a shelf on which was the baby's
shoe I had found in the hut on my return
home. She took it from the shelf, and
pressing it to her lips, burst into a passion
of blinding tears, and sank to the ground,
crying,—

'soh, baby ! baby ! Oh, my heart ! my
heart ! '

While I was contemplating this picture
of despair, doubly strange in one who was
herself but a child in years, the lady's servant
returned, and others with him. Outside
the hut I heard the pawing of horses'
feet. Seeing his mistress in tears upon
the ground, the man raised his whip
threateningly.

' I warned you to be civil to my lady,'
he said.

' Be careful I cried, with a look wliicli
presented the blow ; ' if sou strike, your
life will be in danger.'

The lady rose, and stood between us.

' You forget,' ske said to ker servant,
with more dignity than I kad supposed certo
be capable of, ' that this man kas given
me tke skelter of kis roof.' And turning
to me, ske held out ker kant, and said ina
tone of muck sweetness, ' I thank you,
friend.'

I touched ker kant, and bent my head
to ker ; I was more than repaid. Soon
ske was gone, and tke storm was raging
round ker ; but there was a more enduring
storm in ker young heart. Friendless,
too, ske appeared to be, and dependent
on herself, despite that ske was surrounded
by servants wko addressed ker as 'My
lady.'

"It was not until an your afterwards
that I discovered ske kad taken tke baby's
shoe with enduring

tke night I thought muck of
ker ; ker grief, ker youth, ker beauty, ker
apparent innocence and inexperience, kad
deeply impressed me. In tke sobbing of
tke storm I seemed to hear tke echo of ker

wail, ' Oil, baby, baby ! Oh, my heart, my
heart !' And with the eyes of my mind I
saw her slight and delicate figure winding
its way through the mournful forest,
searching for love that was dead. These
thoughts kept me awake ; and I was also
in some anxiety about myself, deeming it
almost certain that the adventure was the
prelude to more starting events.

'' This proved to be the case. I did not
visit Evangeline on the following day, fearing
that I might be watched and tracked.
In the afternoon two gentlemen on horseback
drew up at my hut, and, alighting,
gave their horses in charge of a groom who
attended them. The gentlemen conversed
together for a few moments, and it appeared
as if one were trying to persuade the other
to come into my hut with him. I saw
their actions through the crevice of my
door, which was not quite closed, but I
did not see the faces of the gentlemen,
their backs being towards me. The younger
man shook his head, and waving his hand
around — with an air of affectation, as it
appeared to me — threw himself languidly
upon the ground, and interlacing his fingers
behind his head, gazed up at the

clouds through, the intervening leaves and
branches. The other gentleman unceremoniously
pushed open the door, and
entered.

Before me stood Mauvais.

The same easy, polished gentleman as
of old, richly dressed, arrogant, supercilious,
and bearing, as he always did, the air
of a man accustomed to be obeyed. Time
had dealt lightly with him ; something he
may have owed to art, but he seemed
scarcely five years older than when I left
him on the seashore quite fifteen years ago.
He regarded me with a smile.

' Eanf,' he said, in a quiet, questioning
tone ; ' not his spirit ? '

' Ran,' I replied, ' in solid flesh and
bone.'

'' ' I am delighted,' he said.

' It is a good thing,' I said, imitating
his tone of courteous banter, ' to be able
to delight so fine a gentleman.'

« Whimsical as ever. It is surprising.'

'' ' That I am whimsical ?'

' That you are alive. It is — if you will
pardon me — really astonishing.'

'I pardon you readily. The unfortunate
have an unfortunate knack of living.'

' Your philosophy has ripened. Ran,
did you know I had returned from
exile ? '

^'^No.'

' You did not take the trouble to
ascertain ? '

'' ' No.'

'' ' Why ? '

' I did not wish to be troubled.'

*' 'You behoved I should trouble you if
our paths in life crossed again ? '

' I was sure of it. It is your way.'

' Truly, it is my way. Myself first,
others afterwards. A selfish nature, I am
afraid.'

' You are a good judge.'

'' ' Eanf, in all my experiences I have
never met a shrewder observer than
yourself, nor a shrewder reader of character.'


' Shall I read yours ? ' I asked.

'' ' For Heaven's sake, no ! ' he cried,
laughing heartily and gently; in his
angriest moods Mauvais was never violent.
Spare me, I beg.'

He went to the door, and called,
Harold ! ' and receiving no answer, called
again, ' Harold ! ' and walking to the spot

where his friend was lying, leant over him.
I stood on the threshold observing his
movements.

' The fellow is asleep,' he said, rejoining
me, ' dreaming of the fantastic and
impossible. Like myself, Ran, a man of
sentiment. Well, let him sleep ; you and
I can talk together more privately. I
will take a seat, if you will allow me.' I
pointed to one, and he continued : ' I can
hear the sound of the waves beating on the
shore ; I can feel the fresh morning air
blowing on my hot cheeks. In the light
of a beautiful sunrise, we spoke some hard
truths to each other.'

' You expressed, in your fashion,
gratitude for the service I rendered you.'

' I remember ; you were scarcely more
complimentary to me, but what I said I
meant.'

' I was not less sincere. Sometimes,
after you were gone, I wondered how it
had fared with you.'

' And I,' said Mauvais, in his pleasantness
tone, ' never wasted a thought
upon you.'

' It was like you. Were you long
away ? '

' It is eight years since fortune threw
a feather to me across the silver seas,
upon which I floated back to my native
land

^ You speak as though you were not
happy in exile.'

*' ' Who is ? No ; I was not happy,
although the land which sheltered me is
the fairest on earth's surface, a land of
happiness and contentment and plenty, a
very paradise for those without ambition.
But I am almost forgetting ; I came hereto
reward you for your attention to a fair
friend of mine.'

'' ' You owe me for more than that.'

'' ' I do not dispute it ; I owe you my
life. I admit it frankly ; I am in your
debt, and shall be glad to repay you. If
I remember aright, you did not accept
from me one piece of gold.'

'' ' Your memory serves you faithfully.
I did not accept from you one piece of
gold.'

'' ' You did not even ask for it.'

' I did not even ask for it.'

He frowned, and there was no friendliness
in his eyes as they rested on my
face, but I knew that the advantage was

entirely on my side so long as he believed
himself to be in my debt.

' Ask now,' he said, drawing a full
purse from his pocket. 'My fair friend
regretted she had not her purse with her
last night.'

"'I am sorry to hear it; I gave her
credit for a higher nature.'

' Why, hunchback ! You did not look
for any other kind of reward.'

'' ' She thanked me ; that was enough.'

' You have not named a sum,' said
Mauvais impatiently.

' I am not to be paid in gold,' I said.
The fairest land on earth's surface which
you have described must be a favoured
spot indeed. Is it inhabited by spirits ? '

•*'By human beings, Eanf — veritable
men, women, and children, charmingly
simple in their habits and modes of life ;
industrious, frugal, virtuous. Flowing
with milk and honey is the Silver Isle, and
with the milk of human kindness. Rare
enough you must have found this latter
quality, Ran. You have wrestled with
the world, I do not doubt, and have found
out how strong it is.'

I considered before I replied. Another

92 J71 a Silver Sea.

life more precious than my own was in my
keeping. A strange idea was forming
itself in my mind. To be rid of the gnawing
anxiety which beset my days ; to leave
the false world behind me, and commence
a new life in another land where I was
not known, and where I could watch over
Evangeline and see her grow into beautiful
womanhood ! Such a prospect contained
possibilities which made my pulse beat high.
I gained one victory,' I said.
JSTot riches, evidently.'

^'Xo.'

'' ' Nor fame.'

^'^No.'
What, then ? '

'•' ' Love.'

•' He stared at me in astonishment, a
proof that the lady who had visited me the
previous night was not in sympathy with
him. Had there been perfect confidence
between them, she would have related to
Mauvais the substance of our conversation.

' You ! ' he exclaimed.

' Even I, deformed as I am.'

He shrugged his shoulders. ' There
is no accounting for a woman's vagaries.
Does she live ? '

"who?'

' The woman who threw herself away
upon you.'

' The only human tie I have in the
world is a child. Question me no further
on the subject ; my tongue is sealed.'

' I declare in good faith said Mauvais,
that you have in you some of the instincts
of a gentleman."

' I declare in good faith,' I retorted,
judging the instincts of a gentleman by
your code, that if I thought I possessed
them and could cut them out of my body,
I would do so."

*' ' You are prone to strong utterances,'
said Mauvais, with imperturbable good
humour. ' Were I not in your debt, yoa
should smart for your insolence.'

' There is an easy way out of it, if you
care to take it.'

^' ' I promise you to take it, if it is in
my power.'

'' ' I can depend upon your promise, I
know. Mauvais, you do not need me,
even for revenge.'

' In sober truth, Ran, I think I could
exist without you.'

' And I without you. I am sick of

civilization and the world's treatment.
Dependent upon me is a child whom I
love and who loves me. Would the inhabitants
of the Silver Isle be willing todo
you a service ? '

' My name is honoured there ; they
would be glad to render me a service.'

' Then give me and my child a free
passport there, accompanied by such a
recommendation as will ensure us a
welcome. When that is accomplished, we
will cry quits.'

' A whimsical idea,* he said, looking
at me with mingled amusement and
thoughts fulness ; ' a very Caliban in an
enchanted isle. You would need strong
credentials, Ran, or you would scarcely
be welcomed.'

' It is not for myself I ask this,' I
said; *it is for the sake of my child.'

*' * You have my promise ; I will endeavour
to gratify you.'

He glanced through the open door
at his friend, who had not shifted his
position.

' Harold,' he called, ' are you still
asleep ? '

* Wide awake, Mauvais.'

' Put life into your sluggish limbs,
and come here instantly.'

It appeared to be a difficult task for
Harold to accomplish, but it was done
in time, and he sauntered lazily towards
us.

A handsomer man even than Mauvais,
and between twenty and thirty years
younger ; a man evidently cut in the same
mould — disdainful, high-bred, and holding
in contempt those beneath him.

'^ The moment he saw me he took from
his pocket a small book, and made a sketch
of me.

'' ' Harold,' said Mauvais

' One moment, Mauvais cried Harold ;
such an opportunity comes but once in
life. There ! I think I have it. Human ? '

' Answer him, Ranf/ said Mauvais.

But I turned away, choked with rage.
Although my face was from them, I saw a
smile on Mauvais's lips, produced by the
thought that his friend had succeeded in
wounding me in a vulnerable part.

' Yes, Harold,' said Mauvais, ' human.'

' Taken from the life,' said Harold,
showing his sketch, and they both laughed
at it.

"Unable to control myself, I plucked
the book from Harold's hand, and tearing
the sketch into a hundred pieces, flung it
to the air.

' You are right, Mauvais,' said Harold ;
very human.'

' By the way, Ran ,' said Mauvais,
addressing me as though nothing of a
disturbing nature had occurred, ' you have
not told me whether this child of yours is
a boy or a girl.'

' A girl,' I answered.

' A child, too ! ' exclaimed Harold
softly.

"harold,' said Mauvais, 'I am in
want of a friend to execute a delicate
commission for me. May I select you as
that friend ? '

'' ' You may command me, Mauvais,'
replied Harold, in utter indifference, ' in
any way you please.'

' In obliging me, you shall oblige
yourself.'

* Pray,' said Harold, 'do not think of
me. Think only of yourself.'

I gave the young man a sharp look,
wondering whether this home-thrust were
accidental or intentional, but I could not

read this face. Its only expression was an
expression of weariness.

' You need rest,' continued Mauvais,
repose ; you have been burning the candle
at both ends, Harold.'

"what does it matter, Mauvais?'
asked Harold; 'it must be burnt out
to-daj, or tomorrow, k year or two
more or less is of the smallest importance.'


'' ' If you have no care for yourself,
Harold, your friends must have some for
you.'

'' ' It is kind of them,' murmured
Harold, ' of you especially, Mauvais, who
have so much pleasure to think of. But
I am really not worth the trouble.'

So perfect was his manner, whether
it were real or assumed, that, despite
the angry feelings he had excited in
me, I could not help regarding him with
interest.

' Often and again have you sighed for
simplicity, Harold — '

' I have searched for it all my life.'

'' ' I wish you to go for me to a country
where its spirit dwells. The voyage will
do you good. You will thank me.'

VOL. II. H

* I do not doubt it. A long voyage,
Mauvais ? '

' You will be absent, I should say, not
more than three months.'

'' ' I will go,' said Harold, * to the ends
of the earth to serve you. You would do
the same for me.'

'* ' I am not so sure, Harold. You will
have companions.'

'eyes?'

' This man,' said Mauvais, pointing
to me —

' I shall be charmed. You are too
considerate.'

' And his daughter.'

' A double inducement.'

' I am under an obligation to this
man, and he has indicated how I can
repay it. Harold, he saved my life.'

' Really ! '

<« « There are certain things against him,
but his word is to be trusted. For instance,
if he says he hates you, you maybe
sure he means it. And what he may
do against you, he will do in the light of
day.'

' You give him a high character,
Mauvais, and I take him at your word.

I have no objection to an honest tiger.
What I object to — if I object to anything,
which I am not sure, it is so
troublesome to object — is the rat or the
fox.'

' You will act as my deputy, Harold ? '

*' ' On one condition, Mauvais. I am
really sorry to make it, but it is necessary.
There are matters upon which I am delicately
sensitive, and in which I have no
control over myself. It is not my fault ;
I came into the world so. As did our
friend here, with certain imperfections,
which he would have rejected, had it been
in his power. These things are beyond
us ; we must accept them. Excuse me
for making a long Speech ; but you know
I have a horror of a cross eye in man or
woman.'

Mauvais listened, amused, and nodded
his head; he was no stranger to his
friend's whims.

' Then,' continued Harold, in the same
languid tone, ' I fly from red hair ; I faint
at the sight of a rat ; and I would sooner
die than live with a woman without eyebrows.'


'* ' What is your condition, Harold ? '
H 2

' I must see the child before I bind
myself irrevocably.'

*' 'What do you say, Ran?' said Mauvais.


I did not hesitate ; I knew that indetermination
this languid young gentleman,
who scarcely spoke above his breath,
was my equal.

' I consent,' I replied.

' Is there time this evening ? '

'' ' No ; if your friend will meet me
here tomorrow morning, I will take him
to see my child.'

' I will be here,' said Harold.

So it was arranged, and they left me,
and I watched their forms fading in the
green twilight until they were lost to my
sight.

Before noon Harold presented himself
on horseback, his groom behind him,
holding the reins of a spare horse. He
desired me to mount, and we rode in
silence to the forest farm, where the
woman brought Evangeline out to meet
me. In an instant I was off the horse,
and the child was in my arms. Receiving
her caresses, and caressing her, I did not
for a little while pay attention to Harold,

and when, remembering that the happiness
of my life depended upon him, I
turned to where he sat motionless in the
saddle, I noticed that his face was white
as death.

' Are you satisfied ? ' I asked.

« « Perfectly,' he replied. ' I want a kiss
from the little maid.'

1 raised Evangeline to his height,
and he took her in his arms, and kissed
her.

« There is no time to lose,' he then
said ; ' I must return at once to Mauvais.
Come, let us ride fast.'

<f We rode so fast that I could scarcely
keep up with him ; only once did he stop,
reining up so suddenly that his horse
reared upon its haunches.

' You have set your heart upon this,'
he said.

' Yes.'

** * Remember, then, that the gratification
of your wish depends upon me, and
that I have my moods as well as worse
men.'

"It was the only time I heard him
speak with energy, and the next moment
he appeared to be aware that his excited

manner was not in consonance with his
character. He relapsed into indolence,
the colour came back to his face, and we
rode more slowly. It happened that we met
Man vain riding with his friends. He
separated from them, and cantered towards
us.

'sewell, Harold?' he said.

To mj surprise, Harold began to laugh
and hold his sides.

' I have seen her, Mauvais,' he said,
continuing to laugh between his words,
and I thank you for giving me two
charming companions.'

"you will go, then?'

' I will go, having seen the child.'

' I am curious about her. What is she
like ? '

' Look in the hunchback's face,' replied
Harold, ' and behold her living image.
Poor child ! But what else was to be
expected ? And, after all, it is none of our
business. Nature throws our sins at our
doors, and wise men make haste to bury
them. They rise from their graves sometimes,
but only cowards are frightened by
them. The true philosophy of life is the
pursuit of pleasure. Ah ! to live in a land

where it is always summer ! Mauvais, if
I die before you — and I believe I shall, my
heart is so weak — bury me in flowers ; or,
if you prefer it, burn me to ashes, and planta
rose-tree in my dust. When shall we
sail for the Silver Isle ? '

' I have a vessel which can sail in a
week

' The sooner the better. Dismount,
hunchback ; you can find your way back
to your hut afoot.'

"He also dismounted, and walked aside
with me.

' You have something to ask me,' he
said.

' Why have you deceived Mauvais ? '

' Because I know him, and because I
wish to serve the sweet maid you call your
child. You should be content.'

' I shall be if, after I have shaken the
dust of the old world from my feet, I never
look upon your face, or the face of your
friend again.'

' That is as fate wills. I will not
promise, hunchback. Life is full of surprises.
Observe those leaves travelling
with the wind. Which is the master, leaf
or air ? '

'' He left me, and in a week we were
on the sea. On the day of our departure
Harold handed me a letter from Mauvais.
It contained but a few words — these : —

' I know not what name you have
given your child. It will insure you a
hearty welcome from the inhabitants of
the Silver Isle if you call her by a name
which is dear to them — Evangeline.'

CHAPTER V.

'rit may happen."

I ADDRESS these concluding lines to you,
Evangeline, child of my heart.

Thus far have I related all that is
necessary of my life beyond these silver
seas, and all that I knew of yours. One
day it may be of importance to you to be
acquainted with the particulars, for, as
Harold truly observed, ' Life is full of
surprises.'

Something yet remains to be told.
Harold, I learned, was a sculptor, and was
poor. Mauvais was at once his friend and
patron. Harold might have achieved distinction,
had he cared to win it, but his
indolent nature stopped the way. Whatever
may have been Mauvais' s true feeling
for Harold, I became convinced that Harold
estimated his patron's character at its
proper worth. Had I cared to speak in

terms of disparagement of his wealthier
patron he would have resented it; none
the less did he hold him in despise.

I have taken some pains to delineate
the characters of these gentlemen ; I wish
you to understand them.

I read Man vain' s last letter to me over
and over again. It was extraordinary that
he should choose for you a name you
already bore. He could not have been
aware that beneath his name and mine in
the Bible I had found in my mother's hut
was written the name of Evangeline, which
I naturally supposed to be yours. Was,
then, the circumstance of his desiring me
to introduce you to the inhabitants of the
Silver Isle by that name merely a coincidence,
or was it part of a chain yet to be
unwound ?

"I determined to sound Harold upon
the point. Between the young sculptor
and myself no feeling of confidence existed.
He looked upon me as a creature so immeasurably
beneath him, and was so painstaking,
in his insolent way, of impressing
it upon me, that a man with less control
over himself than I possess would not have
tamely submitted to it. But I have learned

life's lessons, and only upon rare occasions
do my passions succeed in overpowering
my reason.

'' Harold lead evinced a desire to amuse
himself with me, but it is not in my nature
to truckle to any man, and I, being as free
of tongue as he, we had come to a tacit
understanding to have little to say to each
other.

'' I must be just to him. He took a
sentimental pleasure in your society, but I
do not believe he ever uttered a word
against me in your presence. This was
so loyal that I could not help admiring him
for it ; few men would have refrained from
stabbing one whom they disliked as cordially
as he disliked me.

He was lying on the deck with a
book of poetry in his hand, which he
was idly reading, when I approached
and stood before him. He did not raise
his eyes, but, with matchless insolence,
murmured, as though he had just come
to the line, —

' And men whose heads do grow beneath
their shoulders ! The quotation is
pat, for one stands before me. Thrust for
thrust, hunchback ; I am ready.'

' I am above those taunts,' I said ;
they no longer wound me.'

I lied when I made that boast, and he
knew that I lied.

' At least you have courage,' he remarked.


' I need it,' I replied. ' But it is not
of myself I care to speak. I wish to
have a word with you about the little
maid.'

' Evangeline ? '

'' ' Yes.'

' It is cruel of you. This is the dreaming
time of day.' (The sun was shining
full upon him.) ' The effort of thinking,
much less of speaking, is exhausting.'

'It is almost a pity that the trouble
of living should have been thrust upon
you.'

He laughed quietly. ' I thought you
would not be able to resist. It is indeed
a pity. We should be consulted — it is an
injustice.'

' There is an easy way out of it,' I
said, glancing at the calm and beautiful sea.

He looked at the water with peaceful
eyes, and said, 'No, hunchback. I will
wait. Proceed with your business.'

' We are near the end of our voyage.'

' I am happy in the reflection that we
shall soon part company.'

' On the day I first set foot on this
vessel you gave me a letter from
Mauvais.'

' Did I ? Ah, yes ; I remember.'

' In that letter he desired me to call
my little maid by the name of Evangeline.
Are you acquainted with his reason for
doing so ? '

'' He did not reply immediately, but sat
looking out in silence upon the sea. Presently
he brushed his hand across his eyes,
and murmured, —

' Visions ! Have you Mauvais' s letter
about you ? '

'eyes.'

' Let me read it.'

I gave it to him, and he read it aloud,
repeating the opening words, ' I know not
what name you have given your child.'
Then he returned the letter to me, and
said : ' In the isle for which we are bound
there was once a maiden named Evangeline,
whom the islanders hold in tender remembrance.
Mauvais has told me the story.
That may have been his reason.'

I thank you. It is a sufficient

reason.'

"I was about to leave him when he
called to me to stay.

*' ' It is my turn now,' he said. * When
you take up your residence on this wonderful
isle — which might almost be supposed
to be one of Man vain' s fanciful creations —
it will not be of advantage to Evangeline
that she shall be supposed to be your child.
Even if I admit,, for the sake of argument,
that she is yours, which I do not believe '
(he paused here, and looked at me
steadily for a moment or two in silence)
' which I do not believe,' he repeated
languidly, 'it will be best to represent
Evangelic as an orphan. You have your
secrets, hunchback, I do not doubt, and I
do not seek to penetrate them. A man's
mind is a prison-house; there are cells
in it whose doors we keep tightly sealed
until some momentous event forces them
open, and lets in the light we dread. You
will understand me, although I speak in
enigmas. Do not trouble yourself to ask
me another question, for I should not
answer it. Hest content in this knowledge
; leaving you and Evangeline on the

Silver Isle, I shall return to Mauvais, with
no definite idea of ever meeting you or the
little maid again. But it may happen.
Man is not a responsible being — responsible
neither for villainy nor virtue. If it
is in me to be virtuous, I must be so, will
I, nill I — no credit to me for it. If it is in
me to be a knave, a knave I must be,
will I, nill I — no blame to me for it.
The doctrine of responsibility is one that
is either ridiculously misunderstood or
wilfully ignored — the latter most likely,
because of its awkwardness. We do not
create or form our own emotions, passions,
feelings. I am born with a jealous nature ;
I love a woman passionately ; another man
steps between us, and makes me suffer.
The woman, a coquette, as all women are
naturally, plays with both of us with
delicacy and finesse, and one hour I amin
heaven, the next in hell. In a moment
of fury, opportunity serving, I kill my
rival. I am really not accountable, and if
you choose to call it murder and punish
me for it, you are punishing me for having
been born with certain moral forces which
direct and control every action of my
being. What is, is. No man knows what

is before him ; and although I shall part
from you and our little maid with no idea
of ever meeting you again, it may happen,
as I have said, that our lines of life may
strangely cross in the future. I really
believe, hunchback, that this is the longest
speech I ever made. Pardon me for it, I
beg; I will not offend again.'

'' With that he closed his eyes, and appeared
to sleep ; and during the remainder
of our voyage, all that passed between us
was expressive of the desire to see as little
of each other as possible. Whatever may
have been his motive in speaking to me ashe
did, I recognized that he was right with
respect to you. Were it supposed that
you were my child, it would be a distinct
disadvantage to you. Therefore, when the
islanders asked me if you were an orphan,
I told them to accept you as such. As
such you are regarded ; and so far as I
know, you are one.

'* So for the night I bring my labour to
an end, and lay aside my pen. Leontine
is asleep; my white doves are at rest.
And in the valley below, you, Evangeline,
are also at rest. Good-night. I sleep,
dreaming of you."

CHAPTER VI.

ran's diary continued.

Unexpectedly to myself, I continue my
diary.

The night has passed, and the day. I
am able to move more freely, and tomorrow
I hope to make my way to the
lower hut, to look after my goats, and
dogs, and birds. In a little while I shall
be quite well.

The night has been a strange one, and
may lead to important results.

Whether it was that the recalling of
certain incidents caused me to dwell upon
details which had not made much impression
upon me, or because I was in a state
of nervousness produced by my narrow
escape when endeavouring to pluck the
flower on the mountain's top, I cannot
say; but contrary to my usual habit, I
could not sleep for longer than a few

VOL. 11. I

minutes, or perhaps moments, at a time.
All through the night I was in a condition
of wakefulness : now dozing, with confused
pictures in my mind, now awake
and striving to pierce the darkness, which
seemed to be thronged with moving figures.
Now and then the confused tangle of pictures
and faces assumed some kind of
order from which a distinct impression
could be gained, and of these the most distinct
was the recurrence of two faces — the
face of Margaret Sylvester and that of the
lady who had sought the shelter of my hut
the night before Mauvais visited me. At
first I saw no meaning in this conjunction,
but gradually it dawned upon me that
there was a likeness between these two
faces, although one was fair and the other
dark, and I beguiled myself into studying
the shadowy presentments. The longer I
dwelt upon them the stronger grew the
likeness, until I began to believe that there
was really a meaning in the resemblance.
I determined not to let the matter slip,
but to make some quiet inquiry into it.
Margaret Sylvester has already told me
that she is not a native of the Silver Isle,
and from the few chance words that have

reached me with reference to her I have
learnt that she and her husband and her
husband's father led for some years a life
of adventure in places not unfamiliar tome.
I have already described in these
pages that the lady to whom I had given
shelter seemed to me to be friendless ;
and at one time in the night I was startled
by the memory of her expression of grief
when she was lamenting that father, sister,
child had been torn from her. She, Harold,
Mauvais, and Evangeline appear to be
connected by invisible links, and now
this likeness between the lady and Margaret
Sylvester added another to the
chain. It is because this chain of circumstance
surrounds Evangeline, whose future
happiness is my only care in life, that I am
anxious to arrive at some understanding
of it.

Accident has already placed me in
possession of a wonderful piece of evidence,
and that is why, after I had finished my
recital of those events affecting Evangeline,
which I deemed it proper she should be
made acquainted with when she is a
woman, I continue the recital with the
words ' Unexpectedly to myself, I continue
I 2

my diary.' The dreams which haunted mein
the night would not have been in themselves
sufficient to warrant me to resume
my pen ; but what occurred this evening
determined me.

'' Prosaic people who believe in nothing
but what they see and touch might ask,
What can occur to a man living alone ina
hut on a deserted range, thousands of feet
above the level of the sea ? ' It would be
waste of breath to answer them. Men may
live for the hour, but they live not only
in the hour. What is done leaves its
mark. We can bury bodies, but we cannot
bury ghosts.

'' The door of my hut was open ; the
balmy air floated in ; the evening was
calm and peaceful. The white dove that
rapped at my door last night had flown
backwards and forwards, from hut to hut,
all the day. An hour ago it flew in, panting,
and, dashing its wings against the wall,
fell to the ground in an agony of fear.
After it flew a wild hawk, one of a brood
I thought I had destroyed. An eye for an
eye, with these destroyers of my innocent
birds ; I will drive them from the mountain.
As the hawk swooped down upon my dove.

Leontine leapt upon it, seized it, and
carried it, mangled and bloody, from the
hut. I picked up my dove and held it
close to me, its fluttering heart beating
against my own. Presently I released it,
and the bird flew into the dove-cote. Then
I notice that a shelf in the hut had been
thrown down by Leontine ; the articles it
had held were strewn upon the ground. I
picked them up, and among them was the
Bible, with silver clasps, in which Mauvais's
name and mine and Evangeline's
were written by my mother. The clasps
had been loosened and the leaves disordered
by the shock. I sat at my table with the
intention of arranging the leaves and fixing
the clasps.

''I have mentioned that when I first
found the Bible in my mother's hut, I
noticed that some of the leaves stuck together,
as I supposed from damp. My
idea was not correct ; the leaves had been
purposely gummed together, and I now
discovered that this had been done for the
purpose of concealing sheets of thin paper
covered with small fine writing. This must
have escaped my mother's notice, and might
never have been discovered by me but for

the murderous flight of the hawk after my
innocent white dove.

What was I about to discover ?

I carefully examined every page of the
Bible, and succeeded in extracting ten of
these sheets covered on both sides with
fine writing. It was not difficult to judge
that the writer had written in secrecy, and
at intervals of time, for occasionally there
were sudden breaks in the manuscript, as
though she had been interrupted unexpectedly,
and was fearful of being discovered.
I transcribe here what I read
in those pages so strangely discovered,
simply stating that the story of the betrayal
is related by Marguerite's sister,
Clarice.

CHAPTER VII.

THE TESTIMONY IN THE BIBLE.

' I CAN endure this suspense no longer ;
it is fourteen days since I saw Marguerite.
How often have I counted the hours which
make up each day! To-morrow she will
come, I am told, and I wait and wait, and
watch the clock, and tomorrow comes,
but does not bring Marguerite. Again
I am told she will come tomorrow, and
again I wait and watch and count the
minutes, and bless the sunlight that brings
tomorrow, and run to the door a hundred
times, thinking I hear Marguerite's footsteps
— only to be disappointed. Why does
she keep away from me? I loved her
always — she is sister, mother, all in the
world to me ! Why does she not come ?
Oh, why does she not come ? I am so
afraid of not being able to remember all
that passes that I think to myself I will

write it down, and then Marguerite can
read it, and as lie reads I can interrupt
her and tell her things I have forgotten.
And she will kiss me and hold me in her
arms, and I shall be happy once more. If
she would but come now, this very minute,
and call outside, " Clarice ! Clarice ! "
Hark ! Do I really hear her ? No, it is
fancy.

' I do not want any person to see this
but Marguerite, and if she were here this
minute I would tear it up, as I have torn
up letters written to her which were never
sent. What was the use of writing letters
when Marguerite was coming ? But she
does not come, and I am in despair. What
has happened to her ? Is she dead ? And
our cruel master — where is he? Ah, I
hope not with Marguerite, tormenting her,
torturing her, as he has done to both of
us since our dear father's death. Father !
why did you deliver us over to that hard
man, whose only aim has been to make us
wretched ? But you did not know — no,

you could not have known !

*****

'' ' Another week has gone by, and I
have not seen Marguerite. I get no opportunity

to write. Again and again have
I commenced, and been interrupted. What
am I writing ! I am asked. Nothing, I
reply ; and then the gentleman who begs
me call him Harold asks to look at the
paper, and I tear it into a thousand pieces
and will not let him see. '' Child," he says
with a smile, " you have no need to tear
it up ; i£ you gave me an open letter, telling
me to keep it for a year and not look
at it, I should obey you." No one could
treat me with greater respect. He speaks
to me as if I were a princess. But I am
not a princess. I am only a poor dancing-girl,
and I want my sister Marguerite ! I
am obliged to keep my writing secret.
Not because of this gentleman or his
friends, but because of the woman who
attends me, and who watches me, as I
have discovered, when she supposes I am
not on my guard. '' What have you there,
my dear ? " she asks. I tell her an old
letter, and she nods and smiles. Are
people who are always smiling when you
are in trouble deceitful ? This woman is,
I know, for I have detected her searching
my clothes in the middle of the night,
when she believed I was asleep. This

makes me all the more anxious to write
and keep it from lier. I have gone to
sleep with the paper in my hand tight,
and in the morning, when I woke, I have
not been able to read a word. So I have
discovered a way. My dear old Testament,
with the silver clasps, that my beloved
father gave me ; I will write what I care
to write, and conceal it between the pages.
She will never find it there.

\t^, ^gL Ak. *Xi *S£,

TfT Tfr :^ 7l> ^

' The woman who is given to me as a
companion continues to watch my movements
in an extraordinary manner. I
asked her this morning whether she was
paid to do it, and she replied, with detestable
smiles, that she was only doing what
was for my good. This means so much

that I shall speak to Harold about it.

*****

^ I have spoken to Harold. I told him
that the woman was watching me. He
said surely not, and seemed to ask it asa
question. . I told him that I saw her
searching my clothes in the middle of the
night, when she supposed me to be asleep.
He said that was sufficient; the woman
should be discharged ; and added : " If you

wish it." When I replied that she made
me feel uncomfortable, he said that he
would send her away immediately. " Is
there anything else you wish?" he asked.
I answered, "Yes, I want my sister Marguerite."
A strange look of remonstrance
came into his face — it is a handsome face,
and no man, with the exception of my
father, has ever behaved to me with so
much gentleness — as he said, " I will do
everything in my power; my only concern
is that you shall be happy." He asked me,
then, if I could not be happy without my
sister. Happy without you. Marguerite !
My tears answered him. " Write," he
said, " to Marguerite ; do not conceal your
thoughts ; tell her that she is necessary to
your happiness, and beg her to come to
you at once." ** You know where she is,
then," I said ; " there is no occasion to
write. Let me go to her." He answered
that he did not know where you were, or
he would take me to you ; that he would
send a messenger with the letter to where
he believed my master to be, and that the
messenger himself should put his answer
in my hands. He called a servant, and
gave him instructions in my hearing, and

a few moments after my letter was written,
I saw, from my window, the man galloping
away. It is all so confusing that I do not
know what to think.

*****

' The woman has gone. She said
some bitter, strange things to me before
she left. She reproached me for having
been the cause of her losing a good service,
and said she knew well enough the reason
why I wished to get rid of her. "You
will live to repent it," she said ; " I would
have protected you." She was not allowed
to say more, for one of Harold's servants,
coming in at the time, ordered her to be
careful with her tongue. ''My master is
not to be trifled with," said the servant.
I know it," replied the woman ; and turning
to me said, with a sneering smile,
And so will you, my fine lady."

' What did she mean when she said
she would have protected me? Protect
me from whom ?

' Harold sent to know whether he
might come and see me ; he never visits
me in my room without asking permission.
I sent word back that he could come if he
wished.

'' ' His manners resemble those of my
dear father ; they are the manners of a
polished gentleman. He is really one.
"You will feel lonely," he said, "without
a companion of your own sex. Shall we
find you one until Marguerite returns ? "
How grateful I was for his considerate
attention ! I accepted it gladly, and he
then told me that a young woman was
waiting for my approval. He went to the
door and called her — a bright young
creature — younger than I, whom I received
gladly. Her name is Beatrice.
So now," said Harold gaily, " we shall

live happy ever afterwards."

*****

' A fortnight has passed since the man
was sent with my letter to Marguerite.
Daily have I asked Harold about him, and
the only answer I receive is that he has
not returned. Has Marguerite forgotten
me ? Had she sought me, surely she
could have found me. There has been no
secrecy in our movements. I find comfort
in that reflection ; we have travelled by-the
most frequented roads, and have stopped
at the largest hotels. I have been entirely
free. Harold said : " Child, if there

is any person you think you can trust
better than you trust me, go to him; I
shall not detain you, although I shall
grieve to say good-bye. If you and
Marguerite were together, you would not
hesitate to accept me as your friend."
No, indeed," I replied, with regret that I
should have caused him pain ; '' but then it
would be different." " Would it be really
different?" he said. 'but being alone,
as you are, knowing no one, and without
friends, is all the more reason why you
should place faith in a gentleman of whom
you could not ask a service he would not
be eager to perform." I cannot but believe
him ; indeed, situated as I am, I should be
helpless without him.

'' ' Reading over what I have written,
my heart aches to find that in the last few
lines I have thrown out a reproach against
Marguerite. Forgive me, beloved sister !
Too well do I know your truth, your faithfulness
! That I should throw a doubt
upon you reflects shame upon me. You
could not forget me; nor can I you.
Wherever you are, may happiness and
peace of mind be yours ! I pray for you
day and night.

*****

'' ' At noon Beatrice brought me a
message from Harold, requesting me to
go to him; this messenger had returned.
I ran to him so quickly that I almost
fainted from the rapid beating of my heart.
Harold caught me in his arms, and held
me till I recovered. From his face I knew
that the news he had to tell me was bad
news. '' Let me go," I said faintly, " and
tell me the worst at once." But when he
released me I trembled so that I could
scarcely stand; Harold assisted me to a
seat, and leant over me. I was almost
afraid to speak, and my fears grew stronger
with every moment of silence. '' Is Marguerite
dead ? " I whispered. " We do
not know that," replied Harold ; "all that
we can learn is that the man you called
your master has left the country, and has
taken Marguerite with him. It is impossible
to ascertain what part of the
world they have gone to." I seemed to
hear in the air the words, " Marguerite is
lost to you ; you will never see her more ! "
Tears streamed from my eyes, and almost
blinded me, and when I could see, Harold
was kneeling at my feet. " It breaks my

heart," lie said, ''to see you in such grief.
"What can I do to comfort you ? " '' Find
Marguerite," I sobbed ; " restore my sister
to me." "If it is in man's power," lie
replied, " it shall be done. I swear it, by
this kiss on your white hand ! " I wiped
the tears from my eyes and looked into
his face ; truth and honesty seemed to
dwell there, but there was also an expression
in it which brought blushes to
my cheek. Ah, Marguerite ! Would that
you were here to counsel me ! I am like
a child groping in the dark, and I have
no one in the world to depend upon but
Harold.

^ ^ ili Mi. 2^

vfr Tfr ^ "Tf? TfT

' Harold tells me he has sent three
messengers in different directions to track
my master, and he begs me in the meantime
to be easier in my mind; in every
possible way he strives to make the hours
pass quickly. One thing he said which
does not please me : " It is good sometimes
to be able to forget." I asked him if he
meant it would be good for me to forget
Marguerite. He answered : '' Heaven forbid
; but that it were wiser not to allow
our thoughts to dwell so constantly upon

one subject, if it gave ns pain ; and that
we slioulcl not nurse our troubles." He
said a great deal more to the same effect,
but I can find no comfort in it.

' He entreated me to go out more, and
it seemed so ungrateful in me to say No,
again and again to everything lie proposes,
that I have consented to go to a
theatre one evening this week. It is buta
small thing to do in return for all his

kindness.

*****

' I have just returned from the theatre.
The moment we entered our hotel, I
wished Harold good-night, and hurried to
my room. Beatrice waited to help me
undress ; I said I did not require her
assistance, and sent her to bed ; her room
is next to mine.

' In the evening a dressmaker brought
two large boxes into my room, a present
from Harold. She opened them, and laid
out gloves, and shoes, and opera-cloak,
and the most beautiful dress I ever beheld.
It was altogether so sweet and attractive
that I trembled to look at it, and longed
to put it on, and at the same time felt as
though my longing were a sin. When I

VOL. II. K

promised Harold to accompany him to the
theatre, I did not think I should be compelled
to dress so grandly. The dressmaker
pointed out to me the beauties of
the beautiful costume, the colours of
which are what best become me. I asked
her whether it would fit me, and she said
that she had studied my figure, and that
Beatrice had lent her a common dress of
mine which had served as a guide. Time
was flying, and Harold, I knew, would
presently be waiting for me. I allowed
the woman to dress me, and Beatrice, full
of admiration, arranged my hair, and
sighed over me in ecstasy. I thought of
the times when you, my darling Marguerite,
used to take pride in decorating
me, and of your fond words and loving
ways as you proceeded in your task. Ah !
you loved your poor sister too well ; you
cared not for yourself. This was for
Clarice ; that was for Clarice ; Marguerite
wanted nothing — nothing but love ! I
gave you that, dear ! but I can see now
how selfish 1 was in comparison with
you.

' My thoughts were still dwelling upon
you when Beatrice and the dressmaker

completed their task. I looked at myself
in the glass.

' I was almost ashamed of the pleasure
I experienced, and felt as though my appearance
were a wrong to you, dear Marguerite.
But you would not have thought
so ; you would have taken a greater pride
in me than I did in myself. Why should
I deceive myself or you? I could not
help feeling delighted, and the only thing
I wanted in the world to make me completely
happy was that you could see me,
and kiss me, and whisper in my ear those
sweet wishes for my future which I used
to repeat to myself over and over again.
My future ! what will it he like ? And
yours, Marguerite ! What will yours be ?

* It was time for me to go to Harold ;
his eyes shone with delight when I presented
myself. '* You are dressed in a
befitting manner, Clarice," he said; "you
do me great honour." And I had never
seen Harold look so well.

* It was to the opera-house we went.
The theatre was crowded. It was wonderful.
The dresses of the ladies, the
lights, the animation of every person, who
behaved as though there were no une
2

happiness in the world, no misery, no
poverty, no sorrow, no injustice. I did
not think of this at the time ; it comes
into my head only now. I thought only
of the bewildering, entrancing pictures
around me.

' Harold and I were alone in the box,
sitting in full view of the house. People
stared at us from every part. *' You are
the prettiest flower in the bouquet,"
Harold whispered, and bowed to this
person and that, and asked me whether I
had any objection to his receiving the
visits of his friends. What objection
could I have? The box was his, and I
but a poor girl, almost like the heroine of
the opera, a gypsy, whose dress at one
time was as grand but not so pretty as
mine. How beautifully she sang ! And
how the audience applauded her ! Her
voice was like a nightingale's, but not
sweeter than yours, Marguerite. Never,
never was a voice as sweet as my dear
sister Marguerite's !

' I lost myself in the pleasure of the
night ; I felt as though I had drunk wine
which intensified almost into pain the
sense of enjoyment.



'' ' Many of Harold's friends came into
the box ; some of them are artists ;
Harold himself is one, he says. He asked
me in a whisper whether he should introduce
me to his friends by my name, and I
said Xo. I cannot tell why 1 did not wish
it to be made common. He mentioned
the names of his friends, but I did not
distinctly hear one of them. They paid
me a thousand compliments ; a queen
could not have received greater attention.

'* ' The night passed quickly ; the curtain
fell. Harold hurried me out of the
box into the carriage. Beatrice was therewith
a lovely fur cloak which she fastened
round my neck.

' I leant back, and closed my eyes, and
as we drove to the hotel Harold held my
hand in his. I tried to withdraw it, but
he would not let me. He hoped it had
been a pleasant evening, he said; I
answered. Yes, and my voice seemed to
die away in a whisper.

' So now I have written all that passed ;
I have done no wrong, and yet I am
oppressed by a feeling of deep uneasiness.
More than ever do I need your
presence and your counsel, my dear sister ;

never more than now, never more than
now !

'' ' Dare I write my thoughts ?

' Suppose I ran away from this great
hotel this very night, this very moment.
In which direction should I fly? Who
would come forward and help me ? Do
I not remember the night upon which
Marguerite and I attempted to escape from
our master ? Even Marguerite, strong
and brave as she is, had to give up the
attempt in despair. And I, weak and
irresolute as I am, with no one to guide
me — could I expect to succeed where
Marguerite failed ?

' Of what, then, am I afraid ? Do I
fear Harold ? Would it be better that he
should beat and starve me, than that he
should strive by every means in his power
to please and amuse me ? Then, indeed,
if he were harsh to me, and made me feel
my dependent position, I should have cause
for tears ; but as it is, treated as a lady —
Clarice, you are ungrateful.

'' ' Scattered about the room are the
clothes and the flowers I have worn tonight.
Marguerite, if she were to come in
suddenly, would scarcely believe they were

o:)

mine; but lie would be glad. It was

what lie always wished for me. Wliy,

then, should I not be glad ? I will go to

bed now, and pray. All will be well intime

— all is well ! Father, that art in

Heaven ! my trust is in Thee ! Good night,

dear, dear Marguerite !

hie « * ^ ^

' I have been very uneasy in my mind.
Until an hour ago I had not seen Harold
for three days. He did not send me word
or message. I asked Beatrice if she saw
him, and Beatrice said, Yes, and that he
always inquired after me ? Did he not
wish to see me ? I asked ; and Beatrice
answered that he did not express the wish.
Every day Beatrice and I have walked out,
and no person has accosted or molested us.
In the hotel I am waited upon by servants
who obey my lightest word. This absolute
liberty jarred upon me, and Harold's avoidance
of me made me uneasy. I sent
Beatrice with a message to him, asking if
he would see me ; she returned immediately,
and said that Harold was waiting
for me. When I entered his study my
resolution left me ; I hardly knew what to
say to him. Still I mustered courage too



ask if I lead offended him. " Child," lie
answered, taking my hand ; "it is I who
feared I had offended you." "In what
way ? " I asked. " If you cannot tell," he
answered, " I have been torturing myself
unnecessarily. And we are really friends ? ' '
Yes," I replied, but even as I spoke my
voice deserted me again. Then he expressed
his sorrow that he had been enable to
obtain news of Marguerite, and that he
feared it would take a longer time to find
her than he expected. He spoke of other
things, and I listened in silence ; he said it
was necessary that he should pay a visit to
an estate a hundred miles away. " What
will become of me?" I thought. It was
almost as if he divined what was passing
in my mind, for he said that he had been
thinking of me, and considering what was
best to be done. Near his estate, to attend
to which would occupy some months of his
time, was a pretty cottage which he said I
could live in if I wished, with Beatrice and
another servant or two ; that if I accepted
it would enable him to communicate to me
without delay what news he might obtain
of Marguerite. " It may happen," he said,
that one of my messengers will return

with Marguerite, and then, knowing where
you were, I could bring her to you at once."
The joy of this possibility caused me instantly
to accept his offer, and I thanked
him with tears in my eyes. " What have
I done to deserve such kindness ? " I asked.
He held my two hands, and looked down
into my face. " Clarice," he said, " you

are never absent from my thoughts."
* * * *

' I have been in Harold's pretty cottage
for a week. It is a most beautiful
place, with a lovely garden around it ; if
Marguerite were with me, I could live
happily here all my life.

' Everything was ready when we
arrived; Harold must have seen to it
beforehand. When I said as much to him
he smiled, and said he hoped he had been
able to please me. " You are queen here,"
he said. " Will you give me lodgment for
the night ? " *' Indeed," I said, laughing,
and much perplexed, '' I know nothing
of the place. It is yours." " Nay," he
said, '' I assure you it is your own, to rule
in as you please, and although I do not
know where to find a roof for my head
this night, I will not stay unless you bid

me." Of course you may stay," I
said ; " but who will show me what todo
? " '' There is a housekeeper here," he
said, and he called a woman by name, an
elderly woman, who showed me over the
house, and pointed out spare rooms, in one
of which Harold could sleep. My bedroom
is the sweetest I have ever slept in ; it has
windows on two sides, and is embosomed ina
very bower of flowers.

' Harold left me the next morning, but
came again in the evening to see how I was
getting on. I was very excited, I had
made so many discoveries during the day.
There are stables and a little carriage, with
a pair of ponies, and two saddle-horses. A
groom explained that the ponies were forme
to drive, and one of the saddle-horses
was forme; the other was Harold's. Two
gardeners were busy in the garden. At
the end of the garden is a streamlet, and
a pretty bridge over it leads into the
woods. It is a fairy house. I cannot
believe that it is mine, but Harold assures
me repeatedly that it is so, and that if I
like he will give me what he calls deeds.
I told him I did not want them; that I
was happy as I was. He caught at my

words. "And are you really happy at

length ? " lie asked. Then, Marguerite, I

thought of you, whom I reproach myself

for forgetting sometimes, and I turned my

head in sadness away.

*****

' Harold comes daily. Yesterday was
Sunday, and he came early with a friend.
Within a mile of this fairy cottage is a
village church, and I was ready dressed
for the morning service when Harold and
his friend rode up. I told them I was
going to church, and asked them to accompany
me; they consented, laughing, saying
they had had no such intention in their
minds. "We walked there, and our appearance
excited the wonderment of the country
people, who stared at us all through the
service. Then, for the first time, I felt
that a great change had come over me.
When my father was alive, and afterwards,
when Marguerite and I were travelling
with our master from village to village, I
knew that I belonged to the people. I
belong to them no longer ; that is plain
from their bearing towards me. It pains
me to think that a tie in which there was
so much that was pleasant is broken. The

minister, an old man with white hair, paid
no more attention to us than he did to the
poorer members of his flock. We stood
outside by the church door, observing the
people who, when they left the church,
wended their way homewards in different
directions. Tbe last to come out was the
minister. He turned his benevolent eyes
upon us. Harold and his friend bowed;
he returned their salutation, and perceiving
that they evinced a desire to enter into
conversation with him, waited a little until
they spoke.

CHAPTER Viii.

THE TESTIMONY IN THE BIBLE continued),

'' ' In the sermon to wliicli we had
listened parallels had been drawn between
the rich and poor, to the advantage of
those who live in humble dwellings and
work for their daily bread. It was upon
this point that Harold and his friend conversed
with the pastor, and drew from him
his belief that not only was there greater
happiness among the poor, but also higher
virtues. It appeared to me as if Harold
and his friend were amusing themselves ina
light way at the pastor's expense, but the
kind old man showed no irritation or
impatience; he listened attentively, and
replied with dignity and gentleness. Until
the discussion was at an end he did not
address me; he allowed Harold to have
the last word, and then turned his benevolent
eyes upon my face. '' Young lady,"

he said, and there was pity in his voice,
'' it pleased me to see you enter our simple
church. Come often ; you will find comfort
in prayer ; and if it should happen that you
want a friend who will counsel you as a
father would an erring child, seek me in
my home. Any of the villagers will conduct
you to it." As he spoke to me, he laid
his hand upon my shoulder, with fatherly
kindness, and while we were in this position
a young girl very nearly of my own
age approached him and stood by his side,
calling him " grandfather." With a hasty
motion he drew her from me, and with a
bow walked away, leaning upon the young
girl's arm. We looked after him till he
was out of sight ; he did not turn to look
at us again.

' There was something in his action
with respect to his granddaughter which
deeply pained me. It was as though he
imagined contact with us would do the
young girl harm. And why should he have
used the words to me, " who will counsel
you as a father would an erring child " ?
I have done no wrong.

'' ' Harold said he was one of a class
of agitators who take pleasure in believing

that the rich are systematically corrupt
and incapable of goodness. " But give
these agitators money," said Harold, " raise
their position, and they change their note.
Then it is the poor who are vicious, idle,
ungrateful. As they are. They serve us
and rob us, and we pay them for service
and robbery ; the balance of virtue is on
our side." Harold's friend laughed, and
declared that no such balance could exist,
because virtue was a myth. " What is
right in one man is wrong in another," said
this friend ; "it really matters very little ;
it is all one in the end. When fruit lies
within reach, where is the hand that will
not pluck it?" I neither understood nor
liked the conversation, and I was glad when
the subject was changed.

' At times everything seems unreal tome.
I had to play the hostess, which both
gentlemen declared I did very prettily ; I
could scarcely believe it was I, Clarice,
who occupied such a position. It has
come about so strangely ! It is as if I were
in a boat without oars or rudder, drifting
along a beautiful stream. For it is beautiful,
very beautiful !

'sin the evening we walked in the woods.

and Harold's friend disappeared. Harold
and I were alone, and he spoke to me intones
so tender that I could scarcely find
strength to reply. Ah, Marguerite ! why
do you not come, and take from my heart
the weight that oppresses it ? Why are
you not here that I might whisper in your

ear words I dare not write ?

*****

' Still no news of Marguerite. Harold
has given me money for the pastor to
distribute among his poor. " Do not tell
him," said Harold, " that it comes from
me ; he might think it would bring ill-luck
with it." "Why?" I asked "Why?"
repeated Harold ; " because, dear child, I
believe that in his judgment I am somewhat
of a Mephistopheles." The pastor
thanked me when I gave him the money,
and regarded me with pitying glances. It
troubles me to see that look in his eyes ;
it is always there when we meet. I have
tried to make friends with his grandchild,
but he has prevented it. He has a kind
nature. Why should he be so cruel tome

?

*****

"how delicious these summer nights

are ! Life is very sweet. But one thing
is needed to render it perfect — the companionship
of mj dear sister. " One day
one day," says Harold; "it will come
in time. Your sister lives, you tell me.
I do not ask you how you know that she
lives. It is enough that you say it; I
believe it, as I believe everything that
comes from your lips. So, one day, when
you and Marguerite are together again,
you will not have to tell her that you have
been entirely unhappy." Harold is wise,
and tender, and true. He has not taken
your place in my heart, dear Marguerite ;
no one could do that. But I should miss
him sadly if he were to keep away from
me now. I have no one else in the world
to depend on — to trust in. I trust in him.

% ^ H: ^ '^

"how long is it since I wrote last?
Months — years — a lifetime ! But time has
passed quickly ; the summer is gone, and
it is now autumn. What has happened in
these few months ? So much, dear Marguerite,
that I could not write it down if
I tried. I am wrong ; it is told in a
few words. I am a happy woman — and
Harold's wife !

VOL. II. L

i^ ^£m ^tm ±i£. ^

'7[* vF <r^ ^ ^

' For many months I have not written
a Hne of this heart-record. I have not forgotten
you, sister; I have been in a happy
dream.

' Marguerite, let me whisper a secretin
your ear. Not to another, no, not to
another soul in the world. It is yours and
mine — and Harold's. I shall soon become
a mother.

' I am filled with wonder, and fear, and
sweet delight. This cottage, in which I
have passed so many happy months, is forever
sacred to me. My child will be born
here.

' Now — now is the time that you
should come to me. Marguerite ! To
share my joy, to take Harold's hand in
yours, and to say to him, 'thank you,
brother, for your loving care of my dear
Clarice ! " To press my child in your
arms — ah ! how I tremble when I write the
words, ''My child! " My soul is shaken
with a tempest of happiness. My child !
My baby ! What will she be like ? I
write " she," for I know it will be a girl.
What will she be like ? I see her lying
in your lap, Marguerite, with laughing



eyes looking into yours. And all your
troubles are over, as mine have been,
except as regards you, dear. Such pretty
little hands — the little fingers are on my
heart-strings now ! —

' Dear Lord of this sweet earth, make
me grateful for the blessings Thou hast
showered on my life, and let my little
baby be Hke Marguerite? Grant that I
may be spared to show my love to both
these dear ones, and to Harold, who has
behaved so nobly to me !

'' ' Ah, Marguerite, that he should love
me, a poor girl ! He so high, so faithful,
and wise, and I so low, so ignorant, and
inexperienced — is it not wonderful ?

' He will not be here to-night ; he is
absent on some great business. So presently.
Marguerite, I shall turn down the
lights, and bring you before me. I have
often done so, and yearned to clasp you to
my heart. I shall see you standing at a
little distance from me, and I shall creep
to your side, and place my shadow-baby in
your arms. Shadows to-night, but soon
to be real, thank God — soon to be real !
Ah, Clarice! there lives not on earth a
happier woman than you.
L 2

*' ' My baby is born. Lie is a week old,
and I am strong enough to sit on the sofa,
and write a few words slowly, to place
with other confessions of mine in my old
Bible.

' Being alone for a little while I have
read over what I have written, and I am
glad I had the resolution to continue my
confessions — for so I will call them — from
time to time. I should have forgotten so
many things that Marguerite will like to
read !

' My baby is asleep, her winsome face
turned to mine. She is my life — dearer
to me than my own, more precious to me
than all else in the world. You will not
be jealous. Marguerite. When you have
a child of your own — which I pray you
may have one day, dear sister — you will
feel as I do that life contains no joy so
sacred, so beautiful.

<« « From this moment summer is in my
heart. I look at my baby in silent wonder
and worship. How sweet is the air — how

beautiful the world !

*****

' Harold is not with me so constantly

as lie used to be. Affairs of importance
keep him from me. When I chide him
for his absence he says, " The world,
child, the world ! There are other duties
besides love." He loves me. Is that not
enough ?

' And yet I torture myself. Baby is
now six months old, and Harold should
notice her more. '' I prefer to notice
you," he says to me; and then he kisses
me and talks to me of the world. Is that
a reason why men do not love children as
women do ? I asked Harold that question,
and he answered carelessly : 'rit may be
so. Clarice, be satisfied with things as
they are. Do not make troubles ; they
come without invitation." '' Trouble will
never come to me," I said, looking fondly
into his face, " while you are with me."
He said nothing to this for quite a minute ;
he seemed to be thinking of the words.
*' While I am with you, child ! " he then
said; 'ris that to be for ever?" "Of
course," I said, "for ever." He smiled
and said, " Well, well, child, enjoy the
sun while it shines."

' My heart is not entirely at rest. But
I must not make troubles, as Harold says.

Perhaps it is because I expect too much.
Marguerite lias spoiled me. There never
lived a human being so faithful and

devoted as my dear sister.

* * ?^ *

' A sorrowful cloud hangs over me,
and I cannot shake it off. Have I brought
it on myself? What sin, what crime have
I committed that my life should be thus
darkened ?

^' ' Last Sunday I went to the village
church accompanied by baby and my maid.
On the way my maid told me that the
pastor's granddaughter was to be married
during the week, and a desire to be present
at the wedding took possession of me.
For a long time the pastor and I have not
spoken. It is painful to intrude when one
feels one is not welcome, and, as the pastor
always received me with constraint, I
ceased to speak to him, contenting myself
with bowing when I met him on my way
to or from the church. He invariably
returned my salutation with gentleness,
and I sometimes looked attentively at him
to see if he was angry with me ; but there
was no anger in his eyes — only pity. But
why should he pity me ? And why should

he be so careful that his grandchild and I
should not be friends ?

' I waited at the church door till he
came out ; he would have passed me had
I not moved towards him, almost entreatingly.
At some distance from us stood his
grandchild and her lover, who, seeing the
pastor stop to speak to me, would have
come to us had he not, bj a motion of his
hand, restrained them. Slight as the
action was, I understood it, and the tears
rose in my eyes. " Sir," I said, very
humbly, " I have a great favour to ask of
you, but you give me no encouragement.
If you knew what pain you cause me, you
would be kinder to me." He answered,
I have no harsh thoughts for you, young
lady. Ask what you wish ; if it is in my
power, I will grant it." '' Your grandchild
is to be married this week," I said. " Yes,"
he replied, " on Wednesday of this week."
'' I hope," I said, '' that she will be very,
very happy ! The favour I ask is that you
will let me be present at the wedding
feast." He shook his head sadly, and said,
'' It cannot be; it cannot, cannot be. We
cannot receive you." He did not move
away; seeing that I was deeply agitated

In a Silver Sea.

by his refusal, lie remained at my side
till I spoke again. " It is so liard to me,"
I said, scarcely able to speak for my
tears, " that you refuse my friendship. I
have done you no wrong; I am without
father or brother or sister. We were like
yourselves, poor people, working for a
livelihood, and were not despised — indeed,
we were not ! By all but one person we
were treated kindly, and were everywhere
welcomed. My father is dead ; my sister
has been torn from me by treachery. I
am young, sir, but I have been visited
by great misfortune and suffering. That
is not a crime; I should not be blamed
for it. I have much to be grateful for,
but there is something wanting in my
life which should not be withheld from
me when I beg for it." '' There is something
wanting in every person's life,"
replied the pastor, who appeared to be
moved by my words ; " no life is perfect.
It would have been better for you had you
remained always poor. I grieve for your
misfortunes ; you are young to have seen
so much, to have suffered so much, but
there is a path in which we must steadfastly
walk if the esteem of mankind is to

be deservedly gained. That path is virtue.
Better battle day and night with poverty,
better endure the pangs of hunger, better
die, than wander out of that path which
leads direct to Heaven and happiness hereafter
! " I could not grasp the meaning
of his speech, it so dazed and bewildered
me. " At least, sir," I said, '' let me wish
your grandchild joy, and press her hand
once — but once, in friendship ! " Again
he shook his head. '' Even this small
thing," he said, " I, whose heart is overflowing
with compassion for you, cannot
permit to be done. It is my duty to
protect those who have no knowledge
of the world's sinful ways." With that
he moved away, and I walked sorrowfully
home.

' In what way have I sinned ? '' It
would have been better for me had I
remained always poor ! " Does my sin lie
at Harold's door, because he is rich? I
remember what Harold said of this
pastor and of the animosity of his class
to those who were higher in worldly
station than themselves. Can it be that ?
No, there is a hidden meaning in the
pastor's behaviour to me — a hidden, terrible

meaning wliicli no one can explain but
Harold. I dare not think — I must wait
till Harold comes.

' Oh, baby, baby ! A little while ago
we were so happy ! And now

* * ^c *

' After three weeks' absence Harold
came to-day. He remained with me buta
few hours. I am in despair. Let
me endeavour to write what passed
between us.

'' ' I related to him the conversation I
had with the pastor. He listened in silence,
never once interrupting me, nor assisting
me when I hesitated. His manner was
cold and ungracious ; I was frightened ; I
asked him if I had done wrong. " Very
wrong," he replied; '' why do you seek
the friendship of such a man or of people
in his station ? " " There is no other
church near," I said timidly; 'ein God's
house all are equal." " Is that one of the
pastor's platitudes ? " asked Harold. "I
have heard my father say so," I answered,
and it came into my mind." " There is
no such thing as equality," said Harold,
'inside or outside church or any other
walls. Some are born to rule, some to

obey, and all must fill their stations becomingly.
Let the worthy pastor keep to
his; I keep to mine. For you, Clarice,
you must choose between us, it seems:
Well, that is your affair'*

' Marguerite, at that moment I was
animated by your spirit ; ? strange courage
possessed me. " Harold," I said, *' do you
no longer love me ? " " What a question ! "
he cried ; " of course I love you. But I
will not be crossed. Clarice, nothing vexes
me more than unnecessary annoyance —
unless it is being asked for explanations.
When a lady in whom I am interested sets
me up against another person, or sets up
another person against me, I must confess
to feeling; wearied. Life was made for
enjoyment." '' You would not wish," I
said, " that I should be despised." " Why
put yourself in the way of being despised ? '
he said. My courage did not desert me.
Harold," I said, '' you must yield to mein
this. The pastor's words to me implied
that I was not worthy of the friendship of
his grandchild, for a reason which I should
blush to explain." '' I shall not know the
reason unless you do explain it, Clarice,"
he said, biting his lip. " He thinks me

unworthy," I said in a tone of slime, " of
the friendship of a pure and innocent girl.
It is a humiliation. Harold. The pastor
is a good man ; give me the means of
setting myself right in his eyes." " How
can I do that?" asked Harold. '' I have
no record of our marriage," I said, aud
was about to proceed when I was stopped
by an expression in Harold's face I had
never seen there before. " You are aware,
Clarice," he said, without any display of
anger, although I felt he was exercising
control over his feelings, " that there were
obstacles in the way of our being married
in church." " Yes, Harold," I said, 'you
told me so." " It was sufficient for you
then," he continued ; "it should be sufficient
for you now. Ours was a civil
marriage, privately contracted. Were it
in my power— which it is not — to place
in your hands what you require, I should
decline to do so. I will not have my
private affairs exposed to the gaze of
strangers. You should be satisfied that I
have behaved towards you like a gentleman
? If, from some cause outside myself
or my actions, you choose to doubt me, I
cannot help it ; nor shall I take any steps

to disabuse your mind of suspicion.
Your course is before you, Clarice; be
wise, and choose the right one. You are
young and beautiful ; you have both sense
and discretion ; continue to trust me, and
all will be well. Nothing is to be gained,
I assure you, if you act in opposition to
my wishes. You can see how you have
annoyed me : I am ashamed to present
myself to you in any but an entirely agreeable
guise. Pardon me, I beg. Never
renew this subject ; it will be injudicious.
I will see you again soon, when this little
cloud has passed away''

' He left me, and the cloud remains.
It will never pass away ! It will hang over

my life until I draw my last breath !
^ % ^ ^ ^

' Confirmation of my fears has come
too soon — too soon ! I am not fit to
touch the hand of a pure and innocent
girl.

'' ' In a lane near to the cottage in which
I live I saw a beggar-woman. She held
out her hand ; I had no money to give ;
my purse was empty. She raised her face
to mine. It was the face of the woman
who was given to me as a companion on

the day I lost Marguerite, and whom
Harold discharged because I disliked her.
The moment she recognized me she placed
herself before me defiantly. '' Oh, my
lady," said the woman, '' this is where you
live ! A pretty hiding-place ! It has
lasted longer than I expected ; you must
have managed the great man cunningly.
How did you manage it ? Tell me.
Though I'm too old and ugly to profit
by the lesson. Are you together still, or
have you replaced him by another ? " I
attempted to pass her, but she would not
allow me. '^ You were the cause of my
losing a good service," she cried ; '' I don't
love you for that. You have been the
cause of my wanting food ; I don't love
you for that. Had it not been for you, I
should never have hungered for bread."
'' I am sorry," I said, and knew not what
more to say. The woman's grudge against
me was justified, if what she said was
true ; and it seemed to be so, for want was
in her face. "It is convenient to be sorry
when it is too late," she said. 'but it is
too late for you as well as for me. Your
master — " I interrupted her, and demanded
to know of whom she was speaking.

Of your master," she repeated. '' He
TTOiild have paid me well but for you ; lie
would have rewarded me finely, for he is
rich and generous, when he has his way.
To please you he sent me packing with the
barest pittance, and since then not a morsel
of good luck has fallen to my share. All
your fault, my lady. I set it down to
your account. Have you found him out
yet, as others have done before you ? "
"If you are speaking of my husband," I
said, " he will punish you for your wicked
words." She laughed loudly. '' Husband
! " she cried ; " only one lady has
ever had the right to call him by that
name, and the lady is not you, my pretty
one ! You had better have kept me with
you; I could have shown you what sort
of stuff such gentlemen' s hearts are made
of ! — " I stopped to hear no more.
Strong as she was, she could not prevent
me from escaping, and I flew back to my
room, with the horrible words she had
uttered burning before me in the air.

' They are true, I feel they are true !
Harold's manner towards me in our last
interview proves their truth. And this
very morning I received a letter from him

in the fewest words — telling me lie was
afraid lie would not be able to come and
see me for many weeks. That means lie
will not come again.

' The pastor was right. It was his
duty, he said, to protect those who have
no knowledge of the world's sinful ways.
I had such knowledge. Oh, yes ! I, the
guilty Clarice, had such knowledge, and to
associate with me is to be defiled !

' Oh, Thou all-powerful Lord before
whom I shall appear on the Judgment
Day, teach me and direct my faltering
steps ! Whither shall I fly ? To whom
shall I turn ? Marguerite ! Marguerite !
come to me, and let me hide my shame
upon your faithful bosom !

' Fly ! I dare not. I must live and
face the world. Harold shall do me justice.
For the sake of my child, my pretty, innocent
child, he shall do me justice. I will
go to him, with my child in my arms —

' Come, my dear one. We will start
to-night, this very night. You smile at
me, now ; one day you will be ashamed to
look into my face. When you know the
truth you will shrink from the unhappy
girl who presses her lips to yours, who

kisses your pretty fingers, whose tears
stain your sweet face ! —

' If at this moment we both could
die ! Oh, Marguerite, Marguerite, pity
and forgive me ! '

VOL. II. M

CHAPTER IX.

EANF PUTS THE LINKS OF THE CHAIN
TOGETHER.

Those were the last words wliicTi were
written in the Bible, and they wrung my
heart with the force of an uttered cry.
Had the unhappy girl stood before me,
appealing for justice, she could not more
deeply have impressed me than did this
silent testimony of her betrayal.

Justice she can never obtain. Revenge
may come. Through me? Perhaps. The
strange chance which has placed her confession
in my hands is but part of a design
yet to be completed.

It is not chance ; it is destiny.

After reading the confession, persons
and events swarmed in my mind in almost
inextricable confusion. Gradually they reduced
themselves to something like order.
What are the conclusions plainly to be

drawn from this tangle of deceit and
treachery ?

That Harold and Mauvais are villains ?
It is no new discovery. From the first I
have formed a just estimate of the character
of these gentlemen.

Best to call them gentlemen. Men
with a true sense and appreciation of manhood
do not systematically betray innocence.
Chivalry is not utterly extinct.
But men are scarce ; gentlemen abound.

Leontine, my dog, you are to be envied.
Better to be a faithful hound than a human
being who lives for the pleasure of the
hour and cares not who suffers.

*' It is really a question which is the
higher animal, man or beast.

'' What did this scornful sculptor say to
Mauvais ? ' Nature throws our sins atour
doors, and wise men make haste to
bury them.' And again : ' The true philosophy
of life is the pursuit of pleasure.'
Then, indeed, life is a bestial gift, and all
that is fair most foul.

Aye, Harold, you were right when you

said that Nature throws our sins at our

doors. You may live to prove your words.

And I, the hunchback, may open the grave

M 2

in wMcli you have made haste to bury your
cowardly crime. Your haste was premature.
Your crime lives, audit may happen
that the hour will come when its beauty
shall pierce your heart and cause you
unutterable pain. Trust me to direct it to
that end. So strangely do things come
about ! In your wildest dreams you could
not have imagined that on this lonely
snow-clad mount (nearer to heaven than
you will ever be) the flight of a hawk after
my white dove, thirsting for its innocent
blood, should be the means of bringing
your villainy to light.

Clarice and the lady who sought refuge
in my mother's hut on the night of the
storm are one. By what process of
reasoning do I arrive at this conclusion ?
Unless the point is definitely fixed, all the
circumstances which surround it, in which
strange fortune has made me a principal
agent, vanish into air.

Fair in its promise was Clarice's life ;
most unhappy in its fulfilment. The confession
in the Bible proves it ; the words
of sorrow that fell from the lady's lips in
my mother's hut prove it. Clarice had a
child; the lady, also — a child who was

torn from lier, as lier sister was. As
Clarice's sister, Marguerite, was torn from
her. The lady's father was dead at the
time the confession was written. Thus,
there is as yet no conflicting line in the
history of these two lives.

By what means was Clarice's sister
torn from her ? By treachery. It was a
plot planned with skill and cunning; a
plot to which I have no clue. And there
must have been another hand in it — a
hand at present hidden from me. Patience,
Ran, patience ; all will be made clear to
you in time.

Between these sisters existed a devoted
love. More perfect on Marguerite's side
than Clarice's, for in Marguerite's breast
beat the stronger heart ; she was the
guide, the protector. Clarice was a child ;
Marguerite a woman.

Hapless Marguerite ! Faithful sister !
Had fate led you to Clarice in the hour of
her delusive dream, your honest glance
would have pierced its hollow ness. Had
fate led you to her in the hour of her
anguish, you would have vindicated her
honour and exposed the knave who had
betrayed her. I can see Harold shrinking

from the indignant looks and words of
Marguerite, whom his smooth tongue is
powerless to deceive ; I can see him turning
away, humiliated at the exposure of
the trick Which destroyed the happiness of
an innocent young life.

By what means was Clarice's child
torn from her ? By death ? No. She
lives, and lier name is Evangeline.

In my mother's hut, upon my return
from my wanderings, I found the Bible in
which Clarice's confession was concealed.
All evidence points to the presumption
that Evangeline is Clarice's child. In what
manner my mother obtained possession of
the child and the Bible time may never
disclose. Death has placed its seal upon
this mystery.

"Conjecture here must find a place;
there shall be as few blank spaces in the
picture as possible.

"Harold should do her justice, Clarice
declared. It was a cry of despair forced
from her suffering soul — an appeal which,
m the fruit it should bear, was utterly,
utterly hopeless.

Her grief, her shame, were not for the
eyes of those who had attended her in the

pretty cage provided for her by her lover.
Alone, she, with her child, would traverse
the weary road. She crept from the
cottage at night, with no thought or
knowledge of the difficulties in her way.
She suffered — do I not know what she
suffered ? I, a strong man, inured to
hardship, meeting it with scorn, could not
avoid the smart of the world's cruelty ; how
much less Clarice, a weak girl, frightened
of shadows, and as poor perhaps as T when
she set out on her journey ? By her side
walked a phantom which all men and
women could see, proclaiming her degradation.
Near her journey's end her strength
gave way, and it was at this point of her
career that my mother came across her, and
learnt, mayhap, from her fevered lips the
story of her shame. What purpose my
mother had in her mind when she stole the
child it is impossible for me to say. But it
appears to me certain that upon Clarice's
recovery from her illness she was told that
her child was dead.

Then, childless and heart-broken, she
found Harold, and with him Mauvais.
She was received with tenderness, for the
fatal reason that her child was dead. It

is almost incredible that there are in the
world men who rejoice in the death of a
child.

"I remember when, at Mauvais's request,
Harold accompanied me to see the
child I claimed as mj own that, when his
eyes fell upon Evangeline, his face grew as
white as death. Did any suspicion present
itself to his mind ? If it did, he deemed
it convenient to set it aside. Awkward
complications might arise from such a
resurrection in the life of a man who
made pleasure the be-all and end-all of
his life. ' A man's mind,' he said to me
on the ship which conveyed us to the
Silver Isle, ' is a prison-house ; there are
cells in it whose doors we keep tightly
closed until some momentous event forces
them open, and lets in the light we
dread.'

'' Had my mother known as much as I,
she would have added the name of Harold
to those of Mauvais, Ran, and Evangeline
written in the Bible. She may have had a
motive in suppressing it ; she was a cunning
woman; she knew whom to truckle to,
whom it paid best to serve.

An important link has yet to be supplied,

and the only person in the Silver
Isle who can furnish it is Margaret Sylvester.
The resemblance between these
two women grows stronger to my mind
the longer I dwell upon it. I will speak
to Margaret Sylvester. I shall not disclose
the secret to her, for the present
at least. I have reason to be suspicious
of all mankind, and were another human
being to share my secret, it might bethe
means of estranging Evangeline from
me. I must be cautious, therefore, and
learning what I wish to learn, shall keep
my own counsel.

Many of Harold's words recur to me
with strange significance. ' I love a woman
passionately; another man steps between
us and makes me suffer.' Did Mauvais
step between him and Clarice ? Again :
No man knows what is before him ; and
although I shall part from you and our
little maid with no definite idea of ever
meeting you again, it may happen that our
lines of life may strangely cross in the
future.' Spoke like a fatalist. Secure in
this isle you left the living proof of love's
treachery. A safe hiding-place. When
you returned to the woman you betrayed.

you breathed more freely. Though Clarice
believed her child to be dead, chance might
have brought them face to face. It may
happen that this task is left to me to perform.
Then, gentleman Harold, upon
whose side will be the advantage ?

'' I feel stronger and better. To-morrow
I shall be able to walk to the lower huts,
and to the house — Mauvais's house — in

which Evangeline has found a home.

***** ?^

'* It was good to get out again into the
fresh air. My birds and goats and dogs
had missed me. My dogs leapt upon me
and kissed me ; my goats rubbed their
heads against my legs ; my birds came at
my call.

'^ I set the huts in order, and accompanied
by Leontine made my way to the
stretch of wood that lies in the rear of the
house occupied by Margaret Sylvester.
There I gave voice to my signal for Evangeline,
the song of the lark. Evangeline
answered it almost immediately.

She is growing more beautiful everyday,
and not less affectionate. It is a week
since I saw her, and she was full of a story
which she related to me with eagerness.

It concerned Joseph Sylvester, Margaret's
son.

'' These children and Gabrielle are
companions, and there is something in
the lad's manner which has attracted me
to him. His face is frank and honest,
and his eyes do not seek the ground when
I look at him. I have spoken but a few
words to him, and a little while since,
upon Evangeline's prompting, I expressed
a liking for the lad. She informed him of
this, and thereupon an incident occurred
which Evangehne was eager to relate tome.


Evangeline, girl-like, asked Joseph
for a proof of his fondness for her ; she
had no thought of anything serious, but
Joseph accepted the question in that light,
and laying his left hand upon a stone
struck it with all his force with a stout
branch, and sorely wounded it.

* It was wicked of me,' said Evangeline
; ' I drove him to it. I asked him to
strike as hard as he could, to show me
how much he loved me. He struck his
hand at once, and it was covered with
blood. It must hurt him now, although it
was a week ago.'

'' 'It was a brave action,' I said ; ' if
Joseph would do as much for you when he
is a man — '

' He will,' quickly interrupted Evangeline
; ' he said he would like to die forme;
but there would be no good in his
doing that.'

' Unless it were to defend you from an
enemy,' I said.

' An enemy,' exclaimed Evangeline ;
why should I have an enemy ? '

'' ' You have none on this isle, I am
sure.'

* Oh, no,' she cried, ' here everybody
loves me, and I know no one else. See —
Joseph is there.'

'' I called the lad to me, and spoke
words of praise to him for the pain he had
inflicted on himself.

'' ' It was nothing,' he said ; ' Evangeline
makes out that it was a wonderful thing.
I would do more than that, without thinking
of it.'

He did not speak with bravado ; there
was a modest firmness in his voice rare ina
lad so young.

*' ' Shall we strike up a friendship,
Joseph ? ' I asked.

His eyes sparkled, and Evangeline
pressed mj hand.

' I should like to,' replied Joseph.

' Let it be so, then,' I said ; ' you and
I are friends from this day forth. But if
people speak against me — how, then ? '

' I will not believe them,' said
Joseph.

' Examine me well, Joseph ; see how
crooked I am — unlike every other man in
the isle.'

'' * I like you all the better for it,' he
said, without hesitation.

*' ' But my face, my lad. Even in a
picture you never saw a queerer face than
mine. Think twice ; I am not a man to be
trifled with. It would be dangerous to give
me friendship, and withdraw it through
caprice. If you pledge yourself, I shall
hold you to your pledge.'

'' ' I don't know,' said Joseph, with a
look in his eyes which denoted that he was
studying what I said, 'whether I understand
you or not ; but I should be proud of
your friendship, and if you give it to me, I
will stand up for you and be true to you.'

'' ' Oh, then ; people speak against me ? '

' Yes.'

' And think it a strange tiling that
Evangeline should love me ? '

' Yes.'

' And invent stories of my life on the
snow mountain, and say it is best to have
nothing to do with such a man as I ? '

' Something like that.'

' And in spite of all, you wish to be my
friend.'

'* ' Yes, if you will let me.'

' You must have a reason. Let me
know it.'

'' ' Evangeline loves you ; I love what
she loves.'

' Give me your hand.' He offered me
his wounded hand, and I pressed it ; he did
not wince. ' Evangeline is the link between
us. It is for her sake I do what I have
never done before in my life.'

I heard Evangeline murmur, ' I am
glad, I am glad ! '

' And now, Joseph,' I said, ' our compact
being made, let your mother know I
wish to speak with her.'

Presently the children were gone, and
Margaret Sylvester stood before me. The
moment she saw me she divined what had
escaped the children's notice.

' You have been ill,' lie said.

I was moved by the sympathy expressed
in her voice.

' I met with an accident,' I said, ' and
am thankful to have escaped with life. I
should have been sorry, if it is given to us
to rejoice and suffer in another state of
being, for I do not want to lose my hold of
life till certain things are accomplished.'

* The days are peaceful here,' she said,
with a sigh ; ' life flows on calmly. During
the years I have lived on this isle I have
had no sorrows but those which ordinarily
fall to the lot of men and women. One
should be happy here.'

' You are surely so, Margaret Sylvester.
With husband and children who love you,
surrounded by plenty, attended by respect
and affection, what more can a woman
desire ? '

' You are right,' she replied ; ' I ought
to thank God day and night, upon my knees,
for a lot so free from care. What was the
nature of your accident ? '

' I saw a flower on the mountain
top ; it shone like gold, and I wished to
obtain it. That it was out of my reach
strengthened my wish, as is usual with

human creatures. Attempting to pluck
the flower, I lost mj foothold, and fell
over the precipice. Saved by the branch
of a tree which I caught as I rolled down,
I managed to crawl to my hut. To such
a man as I a few bruises are of small
account.'

While I spoke I was attentively
observing her; the resemblance between
her and Clarice was unmistakable, although
Clarice was formed on a more delicate
mould.

' Your life is a lonely one,' said Margaret;
' why do you not come among us and
strive to win the love of the islanders ? '

'' ' Too late,' I replied ; ' I have no
desire for companionship. With my dogs,
and birds, and goats, I am perhaps as
happy as I deserve to be. There is something
on my mind, mistress. It concerns
Evangeline.'

'' ' What have you to say about her ?
You will not take her from me ? '

' I have no such thought. That wild
mountain is well enough for me, but it
is not a fit place for a flower so tender
as Evangeline. Yet, mistress, I believe I
have only to say to her, Come, and she

would obey me without question. Content
yourself. I am satisfied with the home in
which she is growing to womanhood ; I am
satisfied with your care of her. But I am
curious to know why, when we first came
to this isle, you were so anxious to receive
her. Why, with children of your own, did
you beg that Evangeline should be given
into your charge ? '

'' ' I need make no secret of it,' said
Margaret, with a wistful look ; ' she reminded
me of one whom I loved.'

*' ' Who was dear to you ? '

' Very, very dear ! ' she replied, with
emotion.

*' ' If you remember,' I said, 'on the night
I first saw you here I remarked that you
were unlike the other women on the isle.'

' I remember.'

' You told me you were not born on
the isle, and I asked you to step into the
light so that I could see you clearly. But
for that inspection it is likely that I should
not have consented to allow Evangeline to
remain with you.'

'' Her curiosity was aroused.

'' ' What was there in me that satisfied
you I was a woman to be trusted ? '

VOL. II. N

' Why, mistress, rightly or wrongly, it
seemed to me that I had seen yon elsewhere
— in the old world, where the days
were not so peaceful, and where life did
not flow as calmly as in this Silver Isle.
Here, said I to myself, is a woman who
has seen trouble, and knows when quicksands
are close by ; a woman who has been
through the fire, and has come out pure.
To such a woman I may safely entrust
Evangeline.'

*' My words affected her powerfully, and
it was a little while before she mustered
strength to speak.

' You have seen me elsewhere, you
say. It is so long since I have spoken of
the old life that the mere mention of it
causes me pain. You have seen me in the
old world ! Was I alone ? '

' No, mistress ; you had with you a
girl younger than yourself, who looked like
your sister. I heard her name mentioned.
If I am not mistaken, it was Clarice.'

Tears flowed down her face as I spoke
these words.

'* ' It istrue,'she sobbed, unturned away.

I did not intrude upon her grief. The
link was supplied, and the chain is complete.

CHAPTER X.

THE STATUE IN THE Market-PLACE.

*' I EE-OPEN my diary. I am in a land of
wonders.

'' Two years have elapsed since my conversation
with Margaret Sylvester, when I
believed I had completed the chain which
surrounds the lives of Evangeline, Margaret,
Clarice, and Harold. But much was
hidden from me which I had no expectation
would ever be disclosed. I had then no
intention of continuing this record ; but
events have occurred, and a discovery I
have made (which shall in its proper place
be set down) is in its nature and possibilities
so startling, that I shall find relief
in imparting my secrets to a companion to
whom I can talk, and in whom I can confide
with unreserved confidence. These white
pages will not betray me.

*' The friendship sealed between Joseph
N 2

Sylvester and myself has endured. He is
growing into manhood, and those qualities
for which I gave him credit as a lad — such
as faithfulness and determination of purpose
— have developed in strength ; they are
part of his nature. He is not too free with
his tongue — a decided merit. Loquacity
is ever dangerous. I have given him tasks
to perform, have walked in the woods with
him, and have studied his character. He
is not a blind follower ; he has opinions of
Ms own. There is but one person whom
he would blindly obey — Evangeline. His
will is subordinate to her lightest whim.
It would be a cruel test were she, in a
moment of waywardness, to call upon him
for a foolhardy proof of love ; he would
give it without remonstrance. He is weak
only where Evangeline is concerned ; it will
be well for both if she uses her power with
tenderness and wisdom.

My white doves fly now between valley
and mountain. Evangeline calls them her
white angels. The idea was mine, and
the children entered into it with delight.
A pigeon-house was built on the roof of
Margaret Sylvester's dwelling, and Joseph
and I had no difficulty in training the

pigeons to % to and fro. Thus the children
and I are in constant communication,
and many a weary hour has been beguiled
by watching the pretty messengers conveying
messages of love under their wings
to those who are dear to me. Threads of
love between valley and mountain, invisible
air-lines stretching from heart to heart.

'' From the top of my mountain I can
see far over the sea, and my message sometimes
runs, ' A ship is making for the
Silver Isle.' The news is conveyed to the
inhabitants oi the isle, and in this way I
am enabled to render them a small service.
It occurs to me occasionally that I owe
them that which I can never repay. This
Silver Isle is theirs, and they have allowed
me to live here in peace. That the service
is rendered in the name of Mauvais does
not lessen the obligation. True, they did
not receive me with open arms, but I had
no right to expect it. In no other part of
the world could I have lived my life free
and untrammelled, at liberty to come and
go, and surrounded by peace and plenty,
I thank them for it from my heart.
Churl that I am, it would be difficult forme
to express my thanks in spoken words.

I lack the generous impulse ; my nature
has been warped.

The children call me ' the Master of
the Mountain.' A little while after my
pigeons had been taught their duty, I
received the following message, in Joseph
Sylvester's handwriting, —

' Evangeline's love, and Gabrielle's,
and Joseph's, to Ran, their friend. Grandfather
Matthew wishes to see the Master
of the Mountain. He will be at its foot an
hour before sunrise tomorrow.'

At the hour named I was at the appointed
place, and found Matthew Sylvester
awaiting me.

If Joseph's good qualities are inherited
from his grandfather, then is Matthew
Sylvester a man to be trusted. Sincerity
and honesty of purpose are depicted in his
face ; it is not a mask to hide the secret
thought. He and his son Paul are cunning
fishermen. They have a boat for
deep-sea fishing, and I often watch it
from the heights when it is far out at
sea.

'matthew Sylvester came straight to
the point.

*' 'I wish to speak with you,' he said,

about my daughter Margaret, and lier
sister Clarice.'

"eat Margaret Sylvester's desire?' I
asked.

' No,' lie replied ; ' of my own prompting.'


•' ' I am ready to listen,' I said.

' And to deal frankly with me ? '

'' ' That is as it may be,' I said. ' A
man musc judge for himself how far it is
prudent to speak openly.'

' There is no danger with me,' he
rejoined. ' In what passes between us now
we shall be travelling the same road — the
road which leads to the happiness and peace
of mind of those we love.'

'admitting as much,' I said guardedly,
even that we have the same goal in view,
it may happen that we have cross purposes
to serve. Then, discovering that our interests
are conflicting, we should not be slow
to take advantage of words uttered in such
a conversation as this. Remember, it is
not of my seeking.'

' True,' he said, with a smile of much
sweetness ; ' but is it necessary always to
dive beneath the surface in search of suspicious
motives ? '

'' ' A man must be guided by Ms experiences
; I am guided by mine.'

'' ' You have no reason to mistrust me ?'

"'JSTo more reason than I have to trust
you.'

In adopting this tone I was not meeting
Matthew Sylvester in the spirit in which
he approached me; but Evangeline was
concerned in all that concerned Margaret
and Clarice, and I preferred to err rather
on the side of caution than of frankness.
His next words put me to shame.

'''I am unreasonable,' he said gently;
it was not to be expected that you should
open your heart to a stranger simply for
the asking. Even if I held out the hand
of friendship to you, I could not expect
you to accept it without questioning my
motive. The fault is on my side ; if I desired
your friendship I should have sought
it earlier. I come to you now on behalf
of my daughter Margaret, who is very dear
to me, and I shall be plain and truthful
with you, concealing nothing. I take it
that you and I stand upon equal ground ;
we have seen the world and served our
time, and care but little for ourselves. We
have found our species forgetful of favours.

ready to vilify, eager to condemn. It is
said that old age is selfish ; naturally ; but
it is not so selfish as youth. The young are
forgetful; the old remember. Entranced by
the light and fresh beauty of life, the young
think only of themselves, of their own joys
and sorrows and ambitions. They live to
learn, as we have lived to learn ; in the
meantime let us, who have fought and been
wounded in the fight, endeavour to protect
our children from unnecessary sorrow.'

There was a singular fascination in
Matthew Sylvester's manner, and I inwardly
resolved to meet him in a franker
spirit ; but neither to him nor to any man
will I yet disclose the heart of my secret
respecting Evangeline. He continued, —

'Those are happiest to whom knowledge
comes late; they have more time to enjoy.
But some taste the bitterness of life in
their springtime. My daughter Margaret
was one of these. When life should have
been fairest for her it was darkened by a
sorrow which exists at this hour, although
many years have passed since it was inflicted.
This sorrow is associated with her
sister Clarice, whose name you only of all
the inhabitants of this isle have uttered in

her liearmg. Lie has dwelt upon the
circumstance with the tenacity of a very
tenacious and constant nature, and she
believes you had a reason for speaking to
her about her sister.'

' I had a reason I replied. ' It was
partly to confirm a suspicion that was in
my mind.'

' Partly,' repeated Matthew Sylvester,
with a quickness which showed how deeply
he himself was interested ; ' then it was not
wholly your purpose ? '

' No, it was not wholly my purpose.'

' A woman who is in the habit of
brooding over a subject in which her
affections are involved has strange fancies.
You have been in our market-place, and
seen the statue there.'

' Yes.'

'sit is the statue of that Evangeline
whose tragic death occurred on the mountain
upon which you dwell. Margaret,
when she first beheld the statue fancied it
resembled her sister Clarice. But that, of
course, is impossible.'

I repeated his words mechanically,
That, of course, is impossible :' but my
thoughts belied them.

' Is the name of the sculptor known ? '
I asked.

' K"©,' replied Matthew Sylvester, ' and
the story goes that when, at the instance of
the captain of a brig which traded to this
isle, the commission was given, the likeness
of one of our fairest maids was handed to
him as a model for the sculptor to work
upon ; and that, when the statue was delivered
and set up in the market-place it
was seen that the sculptor had worked from
a model of his own.'

' The story is new to me,' I said ; ' I
cannot see the connection between the
statue and Clarice.'

' Does it, to your mind, bear any
resemblance to Margaret's sister ? '

*' ' I saw her but once, and I have paid
no particular attention to the statue.'

' You have led a life of adventure, I
understand. You must have some sympathy
with the life led by Margaret and
Clarice — led, also, by myself and my son.
I sometimes think of the old days with
a strange yearning, hard as they were !
When you met Clarice, Margaret was
with her.'

No : Clarice was alone. I admit that

(( (

I was not truthful when I told Margaret
Sylvester that I had seen her in the company
of her sister. Moreover, I do not
know even now what kind of life the sisters
led.'

' They were dancers, singers, performers
in small comedies, wandering
from village to village, playing to humble
folk who gave them honest welcome.
While their father lived, their life was a
happy one, but when he died' — Matthew
Sylvester made a sudden pause, and with
a quick changing of his theme asked, ' If
Margaret was not with her sister when
you met her, and you were not acquainted
with their occupation, how did you know
the girl you saw was Clarice ? '

'' The question almost took me off my
guard, and I answered slowly, ' From evidence
not to be doubted.'

Matthew Sylvester looked at me wistfully.
' I must not press you too hardly ;
I have no right to demand a clearer explanation.
You are aware that Clarice is dead.'

'' I started, and the movement did not
escape his notice.

'' ' When did you learn this ? ' I asked.
'Lately?'

' No — many years ago.'

'' ' Since you have been on the Silver
Isle ? '

' No,' he said, ' I learnt it in the old
land, before Margaret and my son were
married.'

'' These words opened a new chapter in
the mystery which enveloped the life of
Clarice. It was but a short time before
I, with Evangeline and Harold, set sail for
the Silver Isle that I had given shelter to
Clarice in my mother's hut and was witness
of her grief. I was now as anxious to
hear what it was in Matthew Sylvester's
power to impart to me as he was to hear
what I could impart to him, and at my
request he related to me the story of the
lives of Margaret and Clarice. It deeply
moved me. He told me of the love existing
between the sisters, of the passionate devotion
of Margaret for Clarice, of their
happy days while their father lived, of his
dying and leaving them in the power of a
man who used them cruelly, of Margaret's
protection of Clarice, of the last night the
sisters saw each other, and the strange impressions
left upon Margaret's mind when
she and Clarice fell asleep in the room

in wliicli their master was gambling with
two gentlemen (in one of whom I saw
Harold as plainly as if he stood before
me), of Margaret's terror in the morning
when she awoke and found her sister gone,
of the pursuit of Clarice and its failure, of
Margaret's agony when the news flashed
upon her that she and Clarice had been
betrayed, of her keeping with her master,
enduring misery and want, and travelling
with him in the hope that one day she
would find her sister, of the gradual fading
of her hope, of the meeting in the woods
of Margaret and Matthew Sylvester, of
her release from tyranny and suffering, of
the news of Clarice's death furnished fora
consideration by the man who had torn
the sisters from each other's arms, and
lastly of the marriage of Margaret and
Matthew's son, and their departure for the
Silver Isle.

This story, related in simple language
by Matthew Sylvester, made everything
clear to me ; nothing was wanting to complete
the villainy of the plot. Clarice had
been deliberately sold and deliberately
bought, and the sisters had been taken
opposite roads on false promises, and

separated from each other so effectually
that nothing short of a miracle could
have brought them together again. Mj
respect for Margaret was strengthened,
as was my detestation for Harold ; and I
vowed inwardly that if the opportunity
ever offered itself, I would avenge the
wrongs of the sisters without mercy or
pity.

In return for the confidence Matthew
Sylvester had reposed in me I imparted to
him something of my own life in the forest
owned by Mauvais, of the storm, and the
appeal for shelter by a lady and her servant,
and of my learning the following day that
the lady's name was Clarice. I recalled
the conversation that took place between
the servant and myself — a conversation
which, if words had meaning, defined in
unmistakable terms Clarice's social position.
I said nothing of Evangeline, nor of
Clarice's lament for the child she had lost.
'' ' Describe the lady to me,' said
Matthew.

I did so, faithfully, and his remarks
left no doubt upon my mind (but truly
there was room for none, all the parts of the
story fitting so exactly) that the lady was

indeed Clarice, Margaret's unfortunate
sister.

'' ' One point still remains,' said Matthew;
the date of the meeting between you and
this lady.'

*' I fixed the date by my arrival on the
Silver Isle, and Matthew Sylvester's face
became indescribably sad.

' We were deceived,' he said ; ' Clarice
lived — perhaps lives — a life of shame.' He
paused before he spoke again. ' Thus do
we lose our faith in goodness ! Were
Margaret's faith in her sister's purity to
be shaken, I can imagine no grief more
terrible than hers would be. The very
name of Clarice is to her an emblem of
purity.'

Then arose within me, in vindication
of the unfortunate girl, the true history of
her betrayal, known only to me and her
and Harold, as related in her confession in
the Bible, and I felt that it would be a
stain upon my manhood if I did not speak
in her behalf.

* Listen,' I said, ' and do not question
me as to the means by which I obtained
my knowledge. Clarice is innocent.
What is pure is pure ; no laws formed by

man, from motives of policy or convenience,
can aspect the immutable. There are principles
of right and wrong which results
cannot twist or modify by the breadth of
a hair. That what is clear in supreme
judgment is not clear in man's should
matter little to any human being whose
mind is not the slave of convenient
custom. When cunning and innocence
meet, and innocence is betrayed, I know
at which door lies the guilt, and, if there
be a higher than earthly justice, which will
be adjudged the sinner and which the
saint.'

' How shall we convey comfort to
Marguerite,' said Matthew, ' when she
learns the story of her sister's shame ? '

' Let her never learn it,' I replied.
Let her rest in the belief that Clarice is
dead. It is best so. Do not convey a
new unhappiness to one who has already
had more than her share of suffering.'

"So it was agreed between us, and we
parted.

Within a week of this interview I
walked at midnight into the great marketplace
of the isle, and waited for the moon to
rise. Not a sound disturbed the stillness ;

VOL. II.

the land was in darkness ; the islanders
were at rest. It was as though. a dead
world lay in the arms of an eternal night.

I stood before the statue of Evangeline,
unable, in the deep gloom which prevailed,
to discern the features or the
moulding of the limbs. I fancied I saw a
figure move in the darkness ; I advanced
towards it, and it glided away. I believed
it to be a creation of the dark clouds which
moved slowly across the sky, and I determined
not to yield to the mental jugglery.
In due time the moon arose, and the white
statue of Evangeline stood out in the clear
light, a work of transcendant beauty.
The raised hand, in the act of listening,
the inclined head, the smile on its lips,
were life-like. Different as was the aspect
under which I had seen Clarice in my
mother's hut — in the life expressive of
despair, in the stone expressive of gladness
I recognized the likeness. It was Clarice.
Harold had done his work well. A great
artist — and a villain !

Yet in admiration I gazed upon the
perfect work, representing a maid who two
centuries ago had been led to death by
love's betrayal. Had any other than

Harold been the sculptor, I could have
kissed the naked feet and \^'orsliipped the
hand that shaped them.

Suddenly I heard a voice.

' She lives ! '

'* Who spoke ? Spirit or mortal ?

'mortal — and she stood by my side, a
roman, with a weird smile on a face that
once was beautiful, that was beautiful now
even in its ghastliness, with the pallid light
of the moon shining on it.

She was fantastically dressed in patches
of colour ; flowers were in her hair ; her
eyes were blue and wandering ; her hands
were never still.

Had a spirit appeared to me I should
have been less surprised.

'' ' She lives ! ' repeated the woman, ' I
thought only I knew it, but you are
in the secret. Are you a man ? You don't
look like it. When the people are about,
she is dead ; when they sleep, she lives.
See — we are alike.'

She put out a white and bleeding
foot, and seeing blood-marks on the earth,
stooped and wiped them up with her
dress. It may be that I gave her a pitying
look, for she said, still smiling, —


a (

It does not hurt. There are worse
pains. My baby is dead. I will show
you her grave.'

Her hand grasped mine, and without
force I could not have released it.

' Good-night,' she said to the statue ;
I will come again.'

'' Unresisting I allowed her to lead me
the way she wished to go, and on the road
she talked to the trees, and the fields, and
the clouds, which were now gathering and
obscuring the light. We walked for fully
a mile, and when it was quite dark she
said, —

" Is it a sin to love ? '

' No.' I had no other answer to give.

' You are not a man,' she retorted,
for you do not answer as others do. It
is a sin to love, and I have loved and
sinned. So they say. If my baby had
lived I should not have cared; I should
have laughed in their faces. Hush ! I
hear her crying ! '

'^ The wind was wailing. A storm was
rising.

' Come quickly. She is crying because
I have been away from her so long ! '

I had no heart to gainsay her, and she

led me into a desolate valley, some distance
from the houses of the islanders, and
stopped before a little mound of earth
covered with wild flowers.

' They would not bury her with the
others,' she said, kneeling by the grave.
I was glad. I have her all to myself.
Hush, darling ! Mother is with you ! '

She took no further notice of me, and
I, not knowing what else to do, left herby
her baby's grave, which she kissed and
talked to as if on it lay her baby's upturned
face.

So. Even in this peaceful isle sin and
shame and love, and love's betrayal, find
their way into human life. Thus will it
ever be in lands where mortals live and
die.

CHAPTER XI.

A Perilous Discovery.

I WAS not likely soon to forget this
singular adventure, to which perhaps I
attached an undue importance because of
its connection with the statue of Evangeline
; but there was another reason for
remembrance in the parallel which suggested
itself between my new acquaintance
and Clarice. I paid a second visit to the
market-place at midnight, and again met
the woman, who, through love, was as
much an outcast among the islanders as
myself. She claimed me as a friend, and
again asked me to accompany her to the
grave of her child. I humoured her,
being curious to learn the particulars of
her story, but she did not gratify my
curiosity until we met for the third time
in the same place.

* I asked her,' said Bertha, pointing

to the statue, ' whether it was right forme
to meet you here and talk to you ; she
said I could trust you. Tell me your
name.'

'* ' Ran.'

' Mine is Bertha.'

That night she told me her story.
There was nothing new m it, so far as
regarded herself. She trusted and was
deceived, and the man who brought disgrace
upon her was killed in open fight by
her father.

' My mother was dead,' said Bertha,
and my father turned me from his house.
He had no other children ; he might have
been kinder to me. But he was a man
who always acted rightly, so the islanders
said. Then it is right never to forgive. I
had friends, as I thought — girls, and men,
and children. Not one of them had a
heart, not one ! Is it not strange to go
through the world so — to kiss and embrace
you, and then to thrust you away ? And
for a father to turn from his child ! I do
not understand it. Why, if my baby
lived, and grew to be a woman, and did
wrong unconsciously, or was unhappy in
any way, in disgrace with all the world, I

should take her to my bosom and comfort
her, and whisper to her, " Do not grieve,
my child ; your mother loves you, though
all the world is against you ! " And we
should be happy again ; it would not then
be always night ; there would be sometimes
a bright cloud in our lives.'

I allowed her to talk without interruption,
and presently she spoke again of her
lover.

' I knew that my father was seeking
him ; I had been told so, not out of kindness,
but out of malice. " There will be
blood shed," they said; and they looked
upon me with horror, as though the crime
were mine. I tried to find him and warn
him. All the day and far into the night I
wandered from place to place, seeking him,
and at length I saw him lying dead upon
the ground. It drove me almost mad. I
ran to my father's house; I beat my hands
against the door till the blood came; he
opened a window above, and asked me
what I wanted. " There has been murder
done ! " I cried. "The guilty has been
punished," my father said sternly, and he
bade me go from his house and never dare
to set eyes on him again, for he no longer

had a daughter. I was overwhelmed, and
sat down on the door-step, in the dread
hope that the world was coming to an end.
And all the while my baby was in my arms,
sleeping peacefully, and as I looked at her
sweet face in the dim light, I thought,
'what does it matter? We have each
other." I took her to her father, and put
her lips to his cold face. I kissed him
also, for the last time, and have never
seen him since. I do not know where
they have buried him ; they would not tell
me.'

We were walking to the grave of her
child, and she stopped and looked around
with wandering eyes, seeking the shadow
of the man she had loved too well.

*' ' I was alone in the world she said,
as we walked onward again, ' no one to
speak to, except my baby ; no one to love,
except my baby. Every one had fallen
off from me, every one; only my baby
remained. Then it happened that I came
in the night to the market-place, and discovered
what no other person in the isle
but you and I suspect — that what they
call a statue lives and speaks. When she
first smiled upon me it was like rain upon

a parched field. My eyes had been scorched
and dried up with grief ; ah, what pain !
what anguish ! And when Eyangehne
smiled, the tears came and relieved my
heart. She spoke to me, and comforted
me, and prevented me from going mad.
We are sisters, and by-and-by we shall
know each other better in the spirit-land,
where I shall have my baby again in my
arms. And my father will be there, and
baby's father, too. Will my father, when
he sees me there, say, " Come to me, my
daughter ; all is forgiven " ? What if I
answered him, " Had you been merciful
to me, my baby might have lived, and I
should not have been condemned to
wander night after night and day after
day from valley to valley, from field to
field, with a bleeding heart, which one
kind word from you would have relieved."
Then, if there be justice, the priests will
be dumb. What do they mean when they
say, " God is love " ? There should be
something more than words, should there
not ? " God is love." Then He will know
I have done no wrong, and He will take
my little one to His bosom, and me, from
whom she drew life. I shall wait — I shall

wait — and on the judgment-day I shall say
to the priests, " You told me that God is
love, and you tried to prove to me that
He is hate." Yes, it is true. They thrust
fire into my wounds. Would you believe
that they would not bury my innocent
baby in consecrated ground ? But a soul
is a soul, and they could not rob her of
that, nor me of Divine love and mercy.
So I am satisfied to wait, but not too long
not too long ! I must die before I grow
old. Look at me ; I am pretty ; I don't
want to grow ugly, and then die. Baby
might not know me, and that would be
too terrible to bear. Where do you
live?'

' On the mountain.'

She looked at me, and retreated a few
steps, impelled by some instinct of repugnance
; but she came quickly to my side
again, and took my hand.

' And your name is Ran, you told me.
I did not think at the time. You are the
being I have heard of and was warned
against, and never saw till the other night.
That proves what men are. Let me whisper
to you. There are people here who abhor
you, and yet you are the only one who has

given me a kind word since my baby died.'
She kissed my hand passionately. ' And
you live on the mountain — Evangeline's
mountain. She lies, too, in ground that
has not been consecrated. I shall come
and see you on the mountain.'

' You will be the first who has dared.'

' Oh, I shall dare ! "

'' ' Best to keep away,' I said ; ' I prefer
to live alone.'

' The mountain is free ; I shall come ;
I am not frightened. Evangeline is there,
and her heavenly messengers ! '

I repeated, in wonder, ' Her heavenly
messengers ! '

' The pretty birds that fly to and fro.
I have watched them, and hope one day
they will bring me a message from Heaven
or Evangeline. You see, I know you do not
live alone. Have you not goats and dogs ? '

' Yes.'

' It must be a fine life. I shall come
and see you.'

'' I left her, as on the first night,
whispering to the wild flowers which
grow on her child's grave, and kissing the
cold earth which mercifully hides what is
dearest to her in this world and the next.

'' Her piteous story drew me to her, and
from that night we were friends. A fancy
of mine impelled me to place some roots of
the dream-flower on the grave of her child,
and when I told her the name of the flower
she thanked me earnestly, and said that
Heaven had directed me to bring the sweet
comfort to her son.

'' What is most beautiful in her is her
devotion to her dead baby. As the leaf
loves the light so does she love her child.
In the mouldering clay of her child shines
a star.

Her father lives now a life of seclusion,
pitied and not condemned by his
comrades. And yet he has broken a holy
commandment. It is hard to thread one's
way through these labyrinths — not for me,
for others ; my mind is no longer in a
state of doubt upon other than mortal
matters. The woman who most needs
pity receives none ; she is shunned and
avoided by all. Hard as granite are the
islanders in their notions of morality.

''I have already set down here how,
when I sipped over the precipice and
almost met my death, I was saved by the
branch of a tree which grew out of the

rocks, and how, by this means, I discovered
a path which led me to a place of safety,
from whence I crawled to my hut and
nursed my wounds. I determined then,
when I was strong, to convince myself
whether this path was made by Nature or
man. If by man, but one man could have
formed it — the Cain of the Silver Isle, who
in a paroxysm of jealous love treacherously
killed his brother.

I set forth from my hut, accompanied
by my dog Leontine. I strapped a blanket
round my shoulders in case I should be
benighted, and I provided myself with food,
and a gourd for water. A light axe, a pick,
and a short-handled shovel, completed my
equipments.

It was not without difficulty that I
found the narrow path which led to the
outer surface of the rocks. The circumstance
that for some distance it had been
tunnelled had escaped my memory. Since
I last passed through the tunnel a quantity
of loose earth had fallen; this I cleared
away, and in the course of the afternoon,
after much labour, I emerged from the
tunnel into open daylight. From the
mouth of the tunnel the path stretched

oriTrards for about twenty yards, and there
terminated — of necessity, for the sheer
surface of the rock was reached. I
recognized the tree whose stout branches
had preserved me from being cut to
pieces on the jutting stones, and tired
with my exertions, I sat down, with my
face to the sea, and partook of the food
I had brought, Leontine sharing with
me. TLe meal being over, I lay full length
on a flat surface of rock, and with my arm
round Leontine's neck, uttered my thoughts
aloud. The dog listened to me with an appearance
of sagacity, and at the same time
with a watchful eye for my safety. I had
chosen a perilous resting-place ; an enemy
creeping up behind me might with a
light push have sent me rolling to the
bottom of the cliffs ; but no enemy was
near, and my hand was steady, my eye
true, and my mind clear. I could not
help smiling at the thought of what
might occur were Harold, Mauvais, and I
imprisoned on this spot, with old grudges
to satisfy, and holding each other in bitter
contempt.

' It would be a rare test of courage,'
I said aloud. ' If something most precious

depended upon life or death, how then,
Leontine ? There is truth in wine, they say.
So when a man's soul is racked and tempest-tossed,
his true nature is revealed. The
many rave and threaten ; the few endure,
and smile at fate.'

'' Autumn flowers grew everywhere
around me; various-coloured grasses waved
in the breath of light breezes ; insects with
gossamer wings threw fairy shadows over
the velvet moss which carpeted the trunk
of the ancient tree. Nature is bounteous
in her gifts, and clothes the loneliest spots
with beauty.

"impossible to say,' I mused, when,
after a contemplation of these eternal
miracles my thoughts returned to my
project, ' at this distance of time whether
the road we have traversed was formed by
Nature or man. If by man, there must
have been a purpose in view. It is scarcely
probable it was undertaken to arrive at
this barren result. Certainly there is from
this point a very fine prospect, and one can
enjoy it without fear of observation on the
part of the islanders; but that is not a
great advantage, for the prospect is equally
fine from the top of the mountain. What

discovery might one make in this lonely
spot, more secluded even than our mountain
huts ? I might split open an ancient rock
and release a toad, who would not thank me
for bringing it into the light ; or a spirit
might guide us by a safe road to the mysterious
depth in which Evangeline and her
bridegroom found their grave. Her story
is a true epitome of life ; one day smiling
and happy, the next imbedded in a grief
which death alone can kill. Leontine's
eyes are fixed on that beetle whose burnished
scales reflect gorgeous colours of
green and gold and purple. A handsome
fellow, Leontine, beyond the painter's art.
How lovely is the sea, with the sunlight
playing on it ! An ocean of living jewels !
It stretches to shores I have trodden in
pain and weariness. A bitter world lies
beyond these seas ; but for the matter of
that there is bitterness enough within this
girdle of silvery ripples. There is a taint
in our blood, my dog ; we fret and faint
with desire ; we lay our heavy hand upon
the weak, and hold them down while they
suffer — in proof of our own righteousness,
Leontine. What have you found, dumb
friend ? A treasure ?

VOL. II. p

"Leontine was busily scratcliiDgtlie earth
from a spot nearer even to the edge of the
precipice than the rock on which I lay, and
presently she came to my side, and in a way
I understood, besought my assistance. I
shifted to the spot which had interested her,
and saw that she had scratched the earth
from what looked like a piece of rusty
iron. At first I regarded it with no interest,
but suddenly it flashed upon me that if it
was iron which Leontine had partly laid
bare, it was an evidence of man's work.
The moment this occurred to me I started
to my feet and dug my pick into the rock
to complete the discovery ; the consequence
was that I almost lost my balance, there
was so little room to swing the arm with
freedom. The danger escaped, I proceeded
with greater caution, and loosening the
rock and earth around and above the
metal, saw that it was part of a chain
which must have lain buried for many
scores of years. My journey was not
destined to be fruitless ; man had been
here before me.

'' My interest being now thoroughly
awakened, I went to work with a will.
Link by link I forced from the rock a

chain at least sixty feet in length, and
coming to the last link found that it was
fixed to an iron ring which was firmly
imbedded in the rock. With all my
strength I strove to detach the ring, but
could not move it. Had I succeeded I
should have placed a difficulty in my
own way ; for was it not likely that the
chain was an important step in the discovery
of a secret which had been hidden
from human knowledge for generations ?

It had been no light task to fix it so
firmly in the rock; it was a serious work,
seriously performed, with a distinct and
definite motive.

"As I considered, playing with the coils
of the chain with my foot, it slipped over
the rock with a startling crash, and hung
sheer down. Quickly I tested whether it
would bear the weight of a man. There
was no doubt of it. It would bear the
weight of two such men as I. Without
further thought I grasped it firmly, and
commenced to descend. That there was
danger in what I was doing did not occur
to me ; I was, indeed, animated by a spirit
of exhilaration. I remember now, and shall
remember to the last hour of my life, the
p 2

expression in Leontine's face as I looked
up and saw her peering down upon me.
The expression was almost human in its
intense sympathy with my exploit, and as
I descended, looking upwards at my dog
with the sky flying from me into illimitable
heights, I exulted in the thought that there
was one creature in the world who would
be faithful to me to the death. I had
but to call ' Leontine ! ' and she would
leap into the void without fear at the
sound of my voice. She would meet
her certain death. Well, a faithful death
ranks next to a faithful life. And man
and beast can die but once. It is buta
question of a little time ; the day will
be sure to come when there will be no
tomorrow.

CHAPTER XII.

GOLDEN CAVES.

I HAD committed myself to a perilous
enterprise. The links of the rusty chain
rasped the skin off the palms of my hands,
and I had need of all my strength to
preserve my hold. Had I not found here
and there a resting-place for my feet in
the jutting rocks, and had I not been
inured to danger, I should not be alive
now to make this record.

I reached the end of the chain, and,
with a sense of great relief, I saw beneath
me an opening in the face of the precipice.
The chain was just long enough to enable
me to swing myself into this harbour of
safety — a comparatively easy task because
of the trees which grew in its mouth.
Utterly exhausted, I sank upon the ground,
and allowed myself time to recover my
breath, which had been almost spent by
my exertions and excitement. Then I

surveyed the position in which I found
myself.

*' The place in which I was sheltered
was a cave formed by Nature. From the
heights above its mouth could not be seen,
and even outwards from the sea it was
scarcely possible it could be distinguished,
in consequence of its being thousands of
feet higher than the water level. JSTo lio-ht
came from within ; the cave was in deep
darkness. I listened a moment; a mournful
wail floated to my ears. It was Leontine,
calling for her master ; I did not answer
her. It afforded me satisfaction to think
that I had left on the rocks above some
portion of the food I had brought with me
from my hut, for I knew that Leontine
would await my return.

The afternoon was already far advanced,
but I was determined not to
abandon the adventure, at least until
another sun had risen. Too much time
would be lost in returning now to my hut ;
and indeed I felt that I had need of rest
before I attempted to climb the rocks by
the aid of the chain. In a couple of hours
the sun would set ; the night would be
dark, but there was nothing to fear. My

blanket was strapped round my shoulders,
and I had sufficient food for the next
twenty-four hours. I had also the means
of obtaining light, and was thus well prepared
for present emergency.

"So deep was the darkness in the cave,
that I struck a light before I made a move
inwards. For some little distance the roof
was man-high ; the path was encumbered
with loose stones and brushwood, but these
I easily cleared away, and stepping forward
cautiously, and making sure of my ground
to avoid a possible pitfall, I soon succeeded
in penetrating so far into the cave that the
light of day was entirely shut out. The
walls of this natural tunnel were dry and
free from slime, and when my eyes became
accustomed to the gloom, I derived assistance
from the varying densities of shade,
which almost served the purposes of colour.
Slowly I made my way onwards, meeting
with no obstacle to my progress which I
was not able to surmount.

'rit was a strange journey. The profound
stillness, the knowledge that I was hidden
in the very bowels of the earth, and that I
was treading a path which, if it had been
trodden by mortal, had not been trodden

for centuries, the fancies which thronged
my brain and the grotesque shapes which
grew out of the darkness — these, coupled
with the uncertainty of the result, filled me
with exultation ; and even when I heard a
faint sound for which I could not account,
I had no feeling of fear. I paused occasionally
and listened, in the endeavour to
discover its nature and the direction from
which it proceeded. But the tunnel was of
eccentric form, winding now this way, now
that, with abrupt turns which I was compelled
to follow, and the sound seemed
to proceed now from one direction, now
from another, and now to cease altogether.
At one time it resembled the sinmno^ of
birds, at another the rustling of leaves ;
the impressions it produced were always
pleasant and agreeable.

I lost count of time ; I could not tell
whether I had walked, and crept, and
crawled for an hour, or two, or twelve.
I was certain of but one thing — that the
path I was treading led downwards, and
that every step I took brought me nearer
to the sea level. Sometimes the path was
very steep, and taxed my strength severely,
but I was equal to every difficulty, and continued

my adventurous journey without
hurt. Monotony was destroyed by an
exhilarating sense of danger.

After a time I began to make discoveries.
A short distance before me I
saw a reflection of bright colour, and when
I reached it I found that it proceeded from
without. There was a cleft in the rock,
and through this opening I beheld the rays
of the setting sun. The space was not
wide enough for the body of a man, and I
stood at the narrow window, and drank
in the fresh air, and watched the colour
die out of the western sky. Before me
stretched a vast expanse of cloud and
water, and both for a little while were
luminous with light ; then gradually crept
on the darkness of night, and the solemn
ocean lay beneath and beyond, enveloped in
mysterious shadow. At that moment I was
imbued with a truer sense of the mighty
grandeur of Nature and of the insignificance
of man. Unceasingly, unerringly move the
silent forces of Nature, majestic and invincible,
heedless of pigmy mortals. In set
forms of speech I have never prayed ; but
at fitting moments my soul has breathed
its prayer, and this was one. So I stood

at the narrow window in the rock, and
thought my prayer of worship, and wonder,
and gratitude. Isolated as I was from
sight or companionship of human creatures
I was not alone. The heavens and the sea
were with me.

Intending to be up with the sun, I
unstrapped my blanket, and wrapping it
round me, lay down and slept. The soft,
mysterious sound ran through my dreams,
and created fancies which did not disturb
my rest.

'' Early in the morning I was astir,
strong and refreshed ; and then to my
delight I discovered that I was not to continue
my journey in utter darkness. Light
came through other clefts in the rocks.
Downward and ever downward I pursued
my way, and at noon, as near as I could
judge, the nature of the sound which had
accompanied me for so many hours was
revealed to me. It was a waterfall from
the topmost height, creeping and rushing
down the moss-clad range — here boldly
leaping into space from jutting rock, here
broken into a hundred rivulets, here united
again, and beautifying the air with spray
and foam which caught rare colour from

sun and moon, and ran with it, laughing,
to the sea. I filled my gourd with the
water, and drank ; it was sweet and fresh.
Shortly afterwards my progress was suddenly
arrested, and I could proceed no
farther. A chasm stopped my way, and I
had no means of descending it. The
danger of attempting it without ropes
was too great. I had no option but to
retrace my steps, and I did so with the
determination to return with such appliances
as were necessary to' prosecute my
discovery to the end. As I anticipated,
Leontine was waiting for me, and her
delight, when she saw me climbing up to
her by means of the chain, was unbounded.
It was midnight before we reached my
hut.

Many weeks were occupied in getting
together the articles that were required. I
had to obtain them from the islanders, and
I proceeded with caution, so that they
should have no suspicion of the task I was
engaged upon. During the interval I twice
descended the chain, and devoted time to
the clearing away of the loose stones and
brushwood which somewhat impeded my
progress ; and the labour of descending

and ascending was so great, and caused me
such pain, that I made a ladder of ropes
and slung it over the rocks by the side of
the chain.

I was compelled to take Joseph
Sylvester partly into my confidence. He
and his people being out fishing, saw from
the sea a figure climb the face of the precipice.
The distance was too great for
them to distinguish my form, and they
agreed not to mention the subject to the
islanders until I was spoken to concerning
it.

'' ' No person but you lives on the
mountain,' said Joseph Sylvester to me,
having sought me for the purpose of conversing
with me upon the subject.

' No,' I replied, ' only I.'

' Last night we were out fishing,' said
the lad, ' and we saw a figure creeping
down the mountain. My grandfather did
not know whether it was man or animal.'

' Did you see,' I asked, ' by what means
this man or animal was effecting the descent.
It is no small thing to do ; one
false step would be fatal.'

*' ' That it was that made us wonder,'
said Joseph. ' We saw nothing but the

figure creeping down, and then suddenly
it vanished in the darkness.'

'' ' You have not spoken of it to others,
Joseph.'

"'No,' said the lad; 'Grandfather
Matthew thought it might be you, and
that you might not wish it to be known.'

'' ' It was I, Joseph, and I do not wish
it to be known to others than yourselves.'

' You may be sure we will not mention
it, then; but it is a strange thing to do.'

' Do I not live a strange life ? ' I asked.

' Yes.'

' Then it is natural I should do strange
things. The mountain and I are friends.
No one knows it so well as I. Generations
ago a dark and terrible deed was
committed on that mountain, and the
bodies of those involved in it lie unburied
in unknown depths. Say that it is a
whim of mine to find their bones, and
give them burial.'

' Is that really your purpose ? ' asked
Joseph, his clear eyes looking into mine.

' Press me not too closely, Joseph ; set
it down to that, and let it content you.
One day, perhaps, you will learn all my
secrets, but you must not seek to know

what I wish to conceal. Rely upon this ;
what I do is done with good intent.'

With that I changed the subject, and
I have reason to believe that the Sylvesterss
have complied with my wish. Nevertheless,
from that time I have chosen dark
nights for my descent.

At length everything was prepared,
and having so arranged that I could be
absent from my hut for a week, or longer
if necessary, I set out with the intention of
completing my discovery. I had previously
conveyed a quantity of food to the spot
where my course had been arrested ; ropes,
chains, and tools were also there, so that I
had but little to burden myself with. I
had taken other precautions as well.

'' It occurred to me that I might meet
with an accident which might prevent my
return; in plainer words, I might meet
my death. In that event, there were certain
things I wished done.

'' I sent a message by one of my pigeons
to Evangeline, and told her to meet me at
the foot of the mountain. She met me
there. I had my dog Leontine with me. I
told Evangeline that I had work to do
which would prevent me from coming to

the valleys, and even from communicating
with her, for fourteen days.

' You have never seen one of my huts,'
I said ; ' would you be afraid to ascend
the mountain with me ? '

She laughed at the idea, and with an
eagerness which showed how she had
longed for the opportunity, took my hand,
and said she would come at once.

I conducted her to my lower hut,
where I had collected all my animals and
birds, and I asked her if she would visit
the hut every three days, to see that they
wanted nothing. She gave a delighted
consent.

'' ' May Joseph come with me ? ' she
asked.

I answered No, not in the performance
of this task ; he might accompany her to
the foot of the mountain, and wait for her
there.

' But,' I continued, ' if at the end of
fourteen days, you do not hear from me,
let Joseph accompany you to my hut at
the top of the mountain. There you will
find a sealed book which you will give to
Margaret Sylvester. She will know what
to do with it.'

Evangeline gazed at me with a look
of alarm.

' You are not going to leave ns ? ' she
said.

' You would be sorry to lose me,
Evangeline ? ' I asked.

^' Her eyes filled with tears, and I
hastened to reassure her.

' There is nothing to fear,' I said ;
you have but to follow my instructions,
and all will be well. You would not wish
that I should choose another in whom to
place my fullest confidence ? '

'' ' No, indeed,' she replied, with a little
sob.

' That is why I have spoken to you,
and I tell you again there is nothing to
fear. I love only you ; next to you, Joseph.
You see, my dear, I want to try you. You
are growing, Evangeline; tomorrow you
will be a woman.'

' To-morrow ! ' she exclaimed.

' Why,' I said gaily, ' of course tomorrow,
which means in a little while.
So tomorrow you will be a beautiful
woman, and I shall live to take pride in
you, and to help your happiness in many
ways. It is but fair, my dear ; you have

helped me in my darkest hours. No,
there is nothing to fear; only do this that
I ask you.'

'' ' Yes,' she said ; ' I will do it.'

' Here,' said I, ' take this smooth
branch, and cut in it a notch every morning,
commencing with tomorrow. Before
you cut the fourteenth notch, which will
mean fourteen days, you shall hear from
me. You are looking at Leontine ; shall
I give her to you ? '

'' ' Oh,' she said, ' it is too much.'

' Nothing is too much from me to
you. I would give you my life if it would
help you. I give you Leontine; she is
yours. You will find her faithful, but not
more faithful than her master.' I stooped
and kissed the dog. ' Call her,' I said.

Evangeline stepped a few paces away,
and called ' Leontine.'

'' The dog looked into my face wistfully ;
I nodded, and pointed to Evangeline, and
the faithful animal went at once and stood
by the side of Evangeline, and licked her
hand. Tears were in Leontine' s eyes. It
was a dog's sacrifice ; man could not have
performed and endured it more nobly.

"So, all being arranged, I set out for the

VOL. II. Q

final attempt. I started at night, and by
noon of the following day I reached the
mouth of the chasm. The remaining portion
of the day was occupied in fastening the
ropes by which I intended to make the
descent. It was only a matter of time ; no
other difficulty presented itself. Then, after
a few hours' rest, I lowered food and water
(learning in this way the depth of the
chasm), and grasping the rope, carefully
felt my way to surface-ground. It was
more easily accomplished than I expected.
I stood upon solid rock, and, looking upwards,
fancied I could see a dim rift of
light at the very top of the mountain. In
that case the range, from top to bottom,
was hollowed out by nature. At that
moment it was not a matter of importance
to convince myself whether this was really
so, and I applied myself to what was of
more interest to me. Having reached the
depth of the chasm, was there an outlet
downwards ? Yes, and not difficult to find
a road, circuitous and eccentric, leading
direct to the sea shore.

No smooth velvet sands met my eyes,
but a scene as wild as I had ever gazed
upon. The shore-line was dotted with

caves into which the sea rushed with
tremendous force. The waves, broken by
hidden rocks, seethed and hissed against
the ancient walls, and reared their foaming
crests in anger ; and as they receded
to the calmer haven which lay beyond the
treacherous rocks, the water poured in
torrents from every crag and basin, and
sped swiftly after the retreating seas.
Then there was peace, and the caves
glistened with diamond spray, lit up with
rainbow colour ; but in a few moments the
waves rolled inwards, to renew the eternal
conflict, and the air was filled with fury
and wild confusion. At the mouth of one
of the largest of the caves were huge
masses of sea-weed, clinging to the rocks
with such tenacity as to resist successfully
the tremendous onslaught of the waves;
and as the sea attacked their thick brown
belts and bands, they curled and writhed
and gasped, liked a myriad tawny
serpents fighting desperately for life in
the embrace of a merciless enemy.

'' Grand and terrible as was the scene,

it did not present itself to me on this

occasion, in its grandest and most terrible

aspect, for the tide was running out. It

Q 2

was fortunate for me, as in two or three
hours I hoped to be able to reach the lower
shore ; at present it was impossible to do
so, and I could do nothing but wait.

In the meantime I was not idle ; there
was food enough for eyes and mind. The
contrast between the fury of the sea
within the caves and its peacefulness a
short distance beyond the line of hidden
rocks was wonderful. Doubtless those
who were acquainted with the sea which
surrounded the Silver Isle were well aware
of the danger of this shore-line, and were
careful not to approach it. No boat could
live in the turmoil of these waters ; a
moment or two would suffice to dash it
into fragments. Small chance, therefore,
for human life, which, in such a struggle,
must be drawn inevitably to its swift
destruction.

«« Firmly fixed in the rocks, at a distance
of thirty or forty feet, was an object which
attracted my attention. It was in the
form of a huge Cross, and seemed to be
fashioned of wood. Weed, and moss, and
shell-fish encrusted it ; the action of the
water had worn it into holes here and
there, but it was not rotted.

How ran the legend of Evangeline and
the brothers ? The man who had played
the part of Cain had, in his remorse, cut
an enormous pine-tree into the shape of a
Cross, and had carved upon it the figure of
the Saviour. This work, which occupied
him for twenty years, he intended to setup
on the highest crown of the mountain
of snow, as a warning to sinners and an
appeal for mercy. He was not permitted
to complete his work of expiation. At the
supreme moment, when the last finishing
touch had been given to the labour of a
lifetime, he and his symbol, in the midst
of a fearful storm, were hurled from the
heights. The islanders declare that it was
a divine judgment upon him. That might
be ; what interested me most was that
there was truth in the bare details of the
story, and that its confirmation lay beneath
me.

The man's death was swift and terrible
and merciful, and doubtless his bones
were swept out to sea — a fitting resting-place.


I watched the waves recede inch by
inch, and when I deemed it safe to do so,
I descended the sharp rocks, and stood on

the lower floor of the cave. Tempting
pools lay here and there, and I bathed in
one and renewed my strength, thinking
with exultation that I was the first living
man whose foot had ever touched this
shore. Not only the cave which held the
work of a sinner's repentance, but a
hundred others, were left in peace by the
retreating sea, and the rocks upon which
the gigantic sea-weed grew were also left
in peace to recover from the fever of the
struggle for life.

My first task was to examine the Cross
and the Figure carved upon it. Even at
this distance of time, and worn and overlaid
as it was, I saw that it was a grand
work, and could have been executed by no
man weak in mind or body.

The Cross had fallen into its natural
position, and stood upright.

The points of the rocks glistened with
light ; the shore was strewn with shells of
great beauty. Colour and form were herein
rare perfection.

So full of novelty was the position in
which I found myself that for a time I
paid no attention to a particular colour
which in calmer moments would have

drawn and fixed my attention. Looking
at it idle, and with no suspicion in my
mind, I saw that it was of bright yellow,
and I judged it to be sand of the sea of a
richer colour than that which lay on the
shore. But presently I noticed that,
except in particular spots, there was no
trace of this brighter colour, and that it
presented itself only in crevices of the
rocks, into which it had been thrown by
the action of the sea. I took a pinch of
it in my hand, and to my surprise, discovered
that it was of infinitely greater
weight than ordinary sea-sand, that it was
of irregular formation (again unlike the
sand of the sea), and that it was of metallic
substance.

A metal, then. What metal ?

'' Gold !

The idea, flashing suddenly upon me,
staggered me for a while. I could not
grasp its full meaning.

How could this precious metal have
found its way into this strange and unlikely
region ?

1 laughed at myself for the question,
and looking around, as though for an
answer, it seemed to me that Nature

was deriding me for my ignorance and
presumption.

In itself, gold was of less value in the
Great Scheme than almost any of the other
objects by which I was surrounded — the
life which crept and crawled, and lived
only for a day, and then died. In their
life, flowers beautify ; in their death, they
fertilize. Weeds, rank things of the earth,
repellent insects, all have their uses; but
gold is gold, and remains always the same.

That man should have made it of exceptional
value is of small account. Why
should not gold be found in the Silver
Isle ? Silver was found here, and Mauvais
was the first discoverer. Mauvais discovered
silver. Why should not Ran discover
gold ?

The islanders might think little of it,
might even be displeased at the discovery.
Golden grain, in their eyes, was infinitely
more precious — the grain that waves in
cornfields, that glistens in the eye of the
sun, that whispers of plenty, or rather of
Enough, and contentment — that was the
grain which ministered to their happiness
and which they valued most. But not
to all is given such wisdom. In this isle

the gold around me was valueless, mayhap.
But elsewhere ?

I was bewildered at the prospect held
out by the discovery. It was mine ; not
another should share it with me. Power,
fame, the adulation of men, the smiles of
beautiful women, the pleasures of the
world in every intoxicating form, were
mine. They were here, in my grasp. I
could purchase them, and enjoy them, and,
if I cared, revenge myself upon those who
had inflicted misery upon me.

Such were the ideas which first passed
through my mind when I held the golden
sand in my hand. They show me in my
true light — of the earth earthy, sordid,
and prone to temptation, when it held out
the prospect of pleasures and gratified
vanity.

In exceptional moments, such as those
I am describing, this lower self whispers
cunningly and urges to unworthy action ;
but only for a time ; for soon my better
self asserts itself, and thrusts out of sight
that worser half of man which too often
leads to his destruction.

CHAPTER XIII.

Rank COMPLETES HIS DIARY.

It was so in this instance. The figure
of the wealthy and uglier hunchback than
I, who, when I was battling with the
world, had summoned me to his presence
for the purpose of sucking consolation
out of my deformity, rose before me. The
lesson I had learned on the memorable
night he introduced me to his guests for
the purpose of showing me the power of
gold — a lesson far different from that he
wished to teach — I now took to heart.
The words I had addressed to him I
addressed to myself. Lip-service his gold
could buy — heart-service, never ; and I
remembered how the keen arrow pierced
his soul when I asked him where, in spite
of all his wealth, was the woman who in
her dreams would breathe his name in
accents of love. In the light of this remembrance

e my exultation in my discovery
took a worthier shape, and I felt that it
was impossible that I should ever become
the slave of gold.

'' Not for myself did I rejoice in the
gold by which I was surrounded. For
whom, then? For whom but for one
being, to whom it might possibly bring
an added happiness ? For whom but for
Evangeline ?

But presently an unexpected consideration
intruded itself. Was it certain that
the metal was really gold ? Might it not
be a baser metal, of no worldly account ?
I smiled at the thought, and the absence
of any feeling of disappointment was a
proof that I had gained a moral victory.

'' There was, however, no other metal
that would answer the description of the
substance I held in my hand, and of the
value of which, after the doubt had passed
away, I was in my own mind convinced.
For its presence in so strange a place I was
puzzled to account ; but ujDon reflection it
occurred to me that some of the hidden
rocks which lay beneath the sea along the
shore might be auriferous. In that case,
the mystery was solved.

'' The wealth which met my eyes was
enormous — impossible to calculate. I
gathered a quantity of the precious particles
from the crevices of the rocks, and
placed it high up, out of the reach of the
waves. It was evening when I first made
the discovery, but I did not suspend my
labour until night had so fully set in that
there was no light to guide me — by which
time I had collected as much gold as I
could carry to my mountain hut. Not only
the darkness of the night, but the sound
of the waves, which told me that the tide
was rising again, warned me to desist. I
determined to pass the night on the rocks
above, and in the morning to make a more
careful examination of the wonderful cave.
It was necessary that I should reach a
place of safety at once, and I commenced
to climb the rocks. I was full of courage
and spirit and energy, but I was over-confident,
and, doubtless, also over-excited,
for in an effort to raise myself, when I was
about twenty feet above the level of the
shore, I slipped, and fell to the bottom of
the cave, cutting myself so severely and
losing so much blood that I became insensible.


In this perilous position I lay without

consciousness until surrounding circumstances
awoke my mind. Sweet voices
were about me, whispering of the sea, of
Evangeline, and of all that was most
pleasant to me. The wild turmoil of
living was over, and I was floating into an
eternity of rest. An eternity soon to be
broken by a furious struggle for dear life.
The tide was rising fast, and the waves
were beginning to wash over me. Then
ensued a battle from which I had scarcely
a hope of escaping ; but despair and the
desire for life gave me strength, and I
managed to cling to the rocks and prevent
myself from being carried out to sea. But
I have to thank fortune for victory, for my
strength was almost spent and my breath
almost gone as a wave drew me outwards
to the spot where the brown belts of seaweed
reared and curled ; quickly it returned,
and by a happy chance washed me
inwards towards the Cross, into an arm of
which it mercifully flung me, leaving me
for a brief space in safety. I took advantage
of the precious moments, and before
the next wave rolled into the cave I succeeded
in climbing another foot or two up
the Cross, and so inch by inch at length
succeeded in reaching the beam on which

the arms of the sacred figure were extended.
Then fixing myself in such a position as to
render it unlikely that I could be dislodged,
my strength finally gave way. and I became
once more insensible.

There is no need here to describe the
night which followed, its interminable
length, and the strange fancies and images
the roar and flash of the waves, whose
breasts were illuminated with phosphorescent
light, created for me. When the
sun arose the tide was going down, and it
was only then I discovered how weak I
was. I had left on the rocks above the
food I had brought with me, and it was
almost by a miracle I was enabled to gain
the spot ; in this attempt I became still
more sorely wounded, and it was with
dismay I thought that many days must
elapse before I should be able to gain
sufficient strength to crawl to my hut on
the mountain. What distressed me most
was the reflection that if I was absent for
longer than fourteen days the record I had
written would fall too early into Margaret
Sylvester's hands, in accordance with the
instructions I had given Evangeline. It
was necessary, therefore, that I should

arrive home (the mere thought of the word,
associated as it was with Evangelic and
the dumb animals I loved, brought with ita
feeing of tenderness) before Evangeline
had cut the last notch in the branch I gave
her ; and to this end it behoved me to nurse
myself and not exhaust my strength in rash
attempts to accomplish what was physically
out of my power.

Nature favoured me in many ways.
The salt water helped to stop the bleeding
of my wounds, and by great efforts I
managed to crawl to a basin higher up the
mountain, supplied with fresh water by a
waterfall from the ice-clad peaks. The
time passed wearily; inaction was like
death to me ; but gradually my wounds
were sufficiently healed to enable me to
move with some freedom, and, bearing with
me a portion of the gold I had collected in
the cave, on the fourteenth day I reached
my highest hut.

Nothing had been disturbed ; the book
in which my record was made was safe. I
was content and grateful.

'' I directed my steps to the lower hut,
where my birds and animals were, and long
before I was within sight of it Leontine

leaped upon me in "unbridled delight. The
dog licked my face and hands, and whined
for joy. I am not ashamed to say I kissed
the faithful creature. Such a welcome
home was not to be despised.

' You are not alone, Leontine,' I said,
looking into the dog's eyes ; ' your mistress
is below

Leontine understood me, and running
before me, with joyous barks, and running
back to express her joy again at my return,
made Evangeline aware that I was coming
towards her.

She stood at the door, and at sight of
me turned as white as death. By that I
knew that the danger I had escaped had
left its mark upon me.

'' ' It is nothing, Evangeline,' I said, in a
cheery tone ; ' a mere scratch. I have
been exploring the mountain, and had a
tumble. Men can bear that sort of
thing; they laugh at bodily wounds and
hurts. Think of what Joseph bore for

your

* I know,' said Evangeline, with compassionate
glances at me, ' but this is something
more. You look as if you had just
walked out of your grave.'

' It is not so I said, with a gay laugh,
and I hope it will be long before the
opportunity is afforded me. There is
nothing to be alarmed at ; I am tough as
granite. And all has gone well with you
since I saw you ? How many days is it
since ? '

She showed me the branch ; the fourteenth
notch had been cut in it. Joseph
was at the foot of the mountain, she told
me, and taking her hand I went to greet
the lad. He, too, was startled at my
appearance, but when I made light of my
wounds and laughed at them, he laughed
with me ; and between us we set Evangeline
at her ease. My animals and birds
had been well cared for, and I thanked
Evangeline for the faithful performance of
the task I had given her. Then I drew
Joseph aside.

*' Have you seen any more creatures
climbing up the mountain side ? ' I asked.

'' ' Only you,' replied Joseph.

' In the daylight ? '

'" No ; at night. I have been out on the
sea, alone, for the purpose of looking at
you.'

'' I laughed ; the lad had but gratified a

VOL. II. K

harmless curiosity, and I was satisfied
that he would not betray or deceive me,
supposing it were even in his power to do
so.

'' ' Then you have discovered,' I said,
that I no longer climb the rocks in daylight.'
The lad nodded. ' I have never
seen the mountain from the sea,' I continued
; ' would it be safe, seawards, to
approach it ? '

"rit would be impossible,' replied
Joseph, ' for a boat to live three minutes
in the breakers on the coast-line there,
they are so terrible and treacherous. It
is for that reason I have been afraid for
you.'

' If I slipped and fell,' I said, ' and even
then had some life remaining, you could
not assist me from the sea ? '

"'ISTot I,' said Joseph, 'nor the best
sailor that ever sailed the seas. Why do
you risk your life ? '

'' ' I am fond of dangerous enterprises,
and as for this climbing, there is but small
risk in it to a man who can climb like a
goat. Joseph, you can enlighten me.
There is a woman on this isle of the name
of Bertha.'

^' ' A woman who lias lost her ^ Its ? '
asked Joseph.

'' ' Yes ; to some extent, I should say.
AYhat do you know of her ? '

' Nothing ; I am forbidden to speak to
her.'

' Forbidden by whom ? '

* By the islanders.'

«« « For what reason ? '

' I cannot tell you.'

'* ' Does your mother know her ? '

'' ' She has never spoken to me of her ;
no one in the isle holds communion
with her, I believe; she goes her way
alone.'

I had asked out of more than an idle
curiosity ; I had a deep compassion for this
sorrowing woman, who lived a life of loneliness
among those who had tossed her in
their arms and nursed her on their knees
when she was a child ; and I had hoped
to find a larger charity in the men and
women of the Silver Isle than was to
be met with in the old world. ' She
goes her way alone.' Poor Bertha ! But
she has the spirit of her child to comfort
her.

Shortly afterwards a brig cast anchor
R 2

in the bay, and when the captain had concluded
his business with the islanders I
stood with him, by appointment, alone
upon the sea-shore. He had executed some
commissions for me, for which I had paid
him in silver from Mauvais's mine, which
I have the privilege of working, but shall
work no longer, and I had determined,
through him, to prove the true value of
the discovery I had made.

I pretended to be searching in the
sand for something I had dropped, and he
regarded me with an amused air, being
used to my moods, and humouring them for
the profit he made out of me.

' What are you looking for, hunchback?'
he asked.

' For a man I can trust,' I replied.

' What kind of man ? '

' An honest man.'

'argive it up; wiser than you have
searched in vain.'

I shrugged my shoulders, and said, —

'•' ' You make no pretensions to honesty ;
I must needs content myself with you. I
would sooner trust you than one who
protests.'

' Here am I, Old Honesty, for sale.
How much will you give for me ? '

'' I took from a wallet I carried over my
arm a small box, and said,

*' ' Hold this a moment.'

He almost dropped it, its weight being
unexpected.

' It is as heavy,' he said, ' as lead.'

'' ' Or gold,' I said. As I spoke I looked
about me cautiously, as though fearful of
being observed or overheard. The captain
changed colour. ' Step aside a little,' I
said ; * no one but you must learn my
secret. Now open the box.'

'' His eyes glistened at the sight of the
gold.

' Virgin gold ! ' he cried ; ' as I am a
living man ! '

' I buy you, Old Honesty,' I said, ' and
you must keep my secret. Listen. Wlien
I first came to this isle the islanders did not
know whether I was rich or poor ; it was a
matter of small interest to them, and as
for my gold — of which you hold only a
small portion in your hand — it was of no
value to me here. Nor did I think it ever
would be — '

"The captain interrupted me.

' Stop. Your story must be told
understandingly. Did you come honestly
by this gold ? '

' Do you come honestly by your
bread ? '

' Yes ; every mouthful of it.'

' So did I come honestly by this gold ;
every grain of it. That it is mine never
made, nor ever will make, any man the
poorer. But no man knows I have it, nor
would I have any man know it but you.
Is my answer straight enough ? '

' \o sounds so. Go on with your
story.'

' I did not think the gold would ever
be of value to me here. But I have my
fancies, and they have taken a golden turn.
There is a maid upon this isle — Evangeline
growing to womanhood, whom I love,
and in whom I take a pride — '

He interrupted me again.

' Stop once more. When I called
myself Old Honesty I was not quite in
jest, nor was it entirely out of vanity or
boastfulness. I am Old Honesty. Do
you mark me, hunchback ? '

' Aye,' I said coldly, ' and I shall be

able to prove you. If I had not thought
you were honest, I should not have been
fool enough to trust you.'

"well, then, I must be thoroughly
satisfied before I work with you or for
you. To profit by a thief s gold is to take
wages from the devil.'

' How many thousands fatten upon
such wages ? '

'' ' I am not good at arithmetic. You
want me to keep your secret, and I will, if
it is a proper one to keep ; not otherwise.
Swear by the life of this little maid,
Evangeline — as sweet a damsel as ever
sailor set eyes on — that the gold is honestly
come by, and I'll say nothing more.'

Truly, I thought, this man of many
words must have his way, and I took the
oath with a clear conscience ; which for the
time appeared to satisfy him, for he allowed
me to continue without further needless
interruption.

"ras I was saying, my fancies have
taken a golden turn with respect to my
maid. I would not instil useless vanities
into her head, but when she becomes a
woman I would have ib in my power to
offer her what I would like to offer her

were I in the old world instead of the
new. My gold is useless to me in its
natural form, but it may be changed
for laces, silks, diamonds, and such-like
adornments in which ladies delight.
This is the commission I propose that
you shall accept from me, leaving it to
your taste, or better still to the taste of
some lady of your acquaintance, to make
such selection as will best answer my whim
and purpose. The reasons for my wishing
to have this kept a secret between us is
first, that I do not care to let it be known
that I am rich, and next, that I desire to
have it in my power to one day surprise
my little maid with a box of treasures
likely to afford her pleasure. What say
you now to my story ? '

' It winds up prettily, and I ask your
pardon for my suspicions. I will execute
your commission, and it shall be a matter
only between ourselves. Do you know the
exact weight of this gold ? '

'' ' No.'

He cried in astonishment, ' And you
leave everything to ray honour ! '

*' ' To your honesty — better than honour,
a word with slippery meanings. The gold

I have given you, however, will go but a
little way in the purchase of what I need.
Delay your departure until the morning,
and at midnight meet me here, and I will
give you more.'

'^ He consented, and at midnight we met
again, when I gave him a small bag of
gold; he brought with him weights and
scales (calling them ' armour for honesty,'
and staring at me when I said that honesty
needed no armour), with which he weighed
the gold. Its weight altogether was
twenty-four pounds and some odd ounces.
The captain expected to return to the isle
in six months, and during his absence I
was not idle. I made hiding-places in the
rocks for the gold I collected, and took
great pains in making the descent to the
caves of easier accomplishment; but had I
worked upon it all my life, none but stout
hearts, or those who had a great stake at
issue, would have dared to venture it.

'' The captain was not as good as his
word. It was nearly a year before he
returned, and I did him the injustice of
thinking temptation too strong for him.
It troubled him, too, he told me, when
after his long absence, we met once more.

'the brig is not my own,' lie said ; ' I
am under orders.'

' I may ask you one day,' I said, ' to
change employers. There are more unlikely
things than that I may buy a vessel
and offer you the command.'

' Time enough,' he replied, ' to speak
of that when it happens ; I think we could
get along together.'

Then he asked me to accompany him
to the brig, and he would show me the
purchases he had made. He unlocked a
strong trunk which stood in his cabin, and
drew out old laces and new silks and a
necklace of pearls and diamonds. I took
pleasure in their contemplation, and in my
fancy saw Evangeline dressed like a lady
in the old world; and as I thought of
Evangeline I thought also of Clarice, and
wondered whether she lived. But my
greatest satisfaction was derived from the
confirmation afforded by these purchases
of the value of my discovery. Truly
there was no bound (except the years
which measure life) to the prospect
before me. Nothing now was beyond
my power ; there was not a wish I could
not gratify, and for a time I was bewildered

by the possibilities which lay
in the future.

' Come said the captain, ' let us
square accounts.'

'' He was scrupulous in them, paying
himself fairly, with the remark that sometimes
honesty paid almost as well as
roguery. I gave him other commissions
and more gold, and he is now absent
attending to them.

'' Before I close these pages for good, I
must make mention of Bertha. For a longtime
I did not visit the market-place, and
one night I saw her at the foot of the
mountain.

'"I told you I should come and see
you,' she said ; ' you have been away so
long that I thought you were dead. Why
have you kept from me ? '

I replied that I had been busy and
ill, and she said I ought to have sent for
her.

'' ' It is dreadful to be alone,' she said,
'when one is sick in body or soul. I
should have come to you had I known.
I should not have cared what they said
of me — they could not say anything
worse than they have already done. I

am alone, as you are. Do you heed
people's cruel words ? '

"'No.'

^' ' Nor shall I. They have almost
broken my heart — they shall not make
me suffer any longer. See — I have
brought you some flowers from my baby's
grave.'

"I took the flowers from her hand;
they were crushed and withered. Nothing
would satisfy her but my promise to come
to the market-place the following night.
I kept my promise, and I left her, as on
the previous occasions, whispering to her
child through the cold earth. I am
animated by the sincerest pity for her
lonely life. We meet now every week ; it
has grown into a habit ; and Bertha sometimes
calls me brother.

'' So now I write my last words. My
last words ! If it were really so, and
death were to summon me this night,
there are those on the Silver Isle who
would shed tears over my grave."

CHAPTER XIV.

Mauvais Returns TO THE SILVER ISLE.

In the year 1848 an unusual circumstance
occurred in the Silver Isle. Within the
space of a fortnight two vessels anchored
in the bay. The first was a regular trader
to the isle, and had frequently visited it ;
the second cast its anchor for the first
time in the beautiful waters which surrounded
the isle, and its captain was a
stranger to the inhabitants.

It was not without uneasiness that the
islanders watched the approach of the
second vessel. It had never occurred that
these white-winged visitors from the old
world trod so closely upon each other's
heels. There had always been a lapse
of several months between the visits, and
especially to the older residents —
any deviation from regular custom was
seldom agreeable. But apart from these
considerations, there was another reason

why the approach of the strange vessel
was observed with anxiety.

The captain with whom they were
acquainted, and who had only just left
them, had brought them news of a fearful
convulsion in the country of the old world
of which he was a citizen. A terrible crisis
had occurred in the history of his land.
The people had risen upon their masters,
and had hurled them from their high
places ; the lives of those who made and
administered the laws were jeopardized,
and in many instances had been sacrificed
by the wild passions of a bloody-minded
populace, whose worst impulses were
brought into play ; decency, restraint, and
order were cast aside ; religion was
mocked at and its priests insulted ; mad
ideas of equality were being promulgated,
and visionaries and fanatics, and those
whose warped and astute intellects could
use these for their purpose, declared that
the time had come for a new distribution
of property. To lead the way to this, the
prisons had been thrown open, and the
vilest criminals had been let loose upon
society, one or two unfortunate miscarriages
of justice being held sufficient for the

flowing of this tide; old rights were disregarded,
and insanely-flattering theories
were dangled before weak and ignorant
masses, inflaming them with visions of
an impossible Utopia. The streets were
red with blood, and decent people were
afraid to venture out of their houses.
Wealth and wine and fine linen were
henceforth to be the property of all,
especially the property of those who did
not own them. The millennium of the
wretched and needy had arrived. The
rich might go hang. There were to be
no more rich — except the poor. It was
the era of topsy-turvydom in property and
morals. By a common process of reasoning
(which now and again in social convulsions
glares for a moment, to be extinguished
almost instantly by a better light),
to be born rich was looked upon as a
crime ; and success, also, was a wrong to
those who struggled or idled (particularly
to the latter) and who had never reaped
fair harvest.

More than ever grateful were the islanders
for the peace and order which reigned
in their land. The pictures drawn by their
friend awoke their compassion for him,

and they proposed that lie should stay
among them ; he declined.

"I have duties elsewhere," he said; " I
must look after my wife and children. We
must stand by our homesteads."

And then again he descanted upon the
misfortunes into which his country was
plunged, and harrowed the hearts of the
islanders with his stories.

I never believed in the divine right of
kings," he said, " but a ship must have its
captain, call him what you will, king or
president or any other name you choose ;
and the captain and its officers must know
their business, or their vessel will get into
the rapids or on the rocks. You have
reason to thank Heaven that you are free
from such fevers as I have described. You
can live your lives in peace and security,
and can enjoy the fruits of your labour.
These wretches would wrest them not only
from you, but from your children. You
are not surrounded by a pack of mongrels
ready to snatch the bone from your mouth.
Eight is right, and there is rich man's
right as well as poor man's right. That
is what some do not or will not understand.
At this moment hundreds of

innocent persons are hiding in cellars and
garrets and caves, awaiting in despair the
opportunity to escape from the unreasoning
fury of their fellow-creatures. It
makes my blood boil to think of it.
So you would give me welcome among
you ? "

Yes," they answered, " you and
yours."

Well, I can but thank you, and if
necessity compel, I will take advantage of
your offer. It is no small temptation to
a man to be offered the opportunity of
bringing up his children in virtue and
peace."

So the captain whose name was Raphael,
bade them farewell, and took his departure.


Happily, thought the islanders, our isle
is but little known, and they almost regretted
that a ship had ever visited it ; for
although they were not inhospitable, they
believed it would be an evil day for them
upon which men v/ith new ideas came
among them. What more did men want
than enough ? To work, to rest, to thank
Heaven for health and food, to live in virtue
and cleanliness, to enjoy what Nature with

VOL. IT. S

liberal hand held out to them — this was
their gospel of earth, to which the added
the spiritual Gospel of trust and hope in
God. "What greater calamity could happen
to them than for this happy state to be
disturbed r Therefore it was when, within
three days after the departure of the
first vessel, a second made its appearance
over the distant sea-line, its white sails
swelling to the Silver Isle, that its
approach was viewed with feelings of
uneasiness.

'' What brings this stranger to the
Silver Isle ? " said the islanders, and
they spoke of sending out a boat to
inquire the business of the unexpected
visitor.

On the deck of the vessel stood two
men, close to the bulwarks, their eyes
fixed upon the land. One was in the
prime of life, the other a man whose
hah' was fast growing white. They were
both handsome and distinguished ; but
there was a worn look in their eyes, as
though they had passed through some
recent trouble. For sometime they gazed
in silence ; then the younger of the men
spoke.

'' It seems bub yesterday ! "

'' Eh ? " cried his companion, who did
not hear the observation, and thought it
addressed to him.

It seems but yesterday," repeated the
younger man, " that I first visited this
happy isle. I passed some delicious moments
lying on tumbled hay in a field
vrhere men and women were working ; I
thought I was in Arcadia ; and I remember
well the walk to the market-place,
over the phil-slopes and between hedges of
barberry and roses. I can trace the perfume
of syringa at this moment."

You were ever a rhapsodist. This isle
is a happy one if happiness is to be found
in stagnation. I was surfeited with it.
"When I lived here — how many years ago ?
a lifetime, it seems — I was fit to die of
lassitude. But time brings changes." He
frowned at this, thinking of the changes
time had brought to him. He was a fugitive
when he first sought shelter within
the peaceful land ; he was a fugitive now ;
but, then, the future, an earthly future, was
before him ; he was scarcely in his prime ;
now, his hair was whitening, and nature
was whispering, 'your time is comings
2

the earth is waiting for you." He brushed
these thoughts away ; it was his habit to
rid himself of unpleasant reflection, and to
this may be ascribed the circumstance that,
though he was old enough for them, there
were but few wrinkles in his handsome
face. " It is to be hoped," he continued,
that the inhabitants have grown more
amenable to reason."

To what end, Mauvais ? "

'' To the end of a proper enjoyment of
life."

"According to your understanding of
it."

'' It is not to be doubted," said Mauvais,
"who is the better judge, they or I."

For my part, I never had the inclination
to teach other creatures how to enjoy,
believing they had promptings of their own.
I regard Nature as perfect; I have no
doubt you find imperfections in her. It
appeared to me that the inhabitants of the
Silver Isle had a fair enjoyment of life."

They may have, in their way."

'' Then the end is served ; a thankless
task to try and improve upon it."

One must do something with his days.
You are happily constituted ; the flight of

I

a butterfly is food enough for your indolent
soul ; but I cannot lie down and dream
the hours away."

If my impressions are correct, the men
of the isle have wills of their own."

'' Then," said Mauvais, with a smile,
we must try and convince the women."

The younger man smiled also, but the
smile almost instantly died from his lips.
'' You have had. a larger experience than
I," he said; 'mine was but a fleeting
view, and when beauty is first presented
to me something within me prevents me
from staring it out of countenance. The
women of the isle are fair."

Very fair ; I am afraid when I lived
here I scarcely did them justice."

'' Mauvais, I will make a confession to
you. I have not been fortunate with
women hitherto."

It is at once a confession and revelation.
Your friends think otherwise."

My friends flatter me ; I never merited
their good opinion, being in that respect
like many luckier dogs than myself, who
are better thought of than they deserve.
Do you know, Mauvais, there has ever
been in my heart an unsatisfied longing ?

The days have glided on smoothly enough.
There have been laughter, music, flowers,
fair and gracious women, sweet protestations,
and sometimes sweeter tears, old
wine and young beauty in their full ripeness.
These should be sufficient for a man,
and are, for most ; they have not been forme.
Sometimes the flowers have faded in
my hand or as I inhaled their fragrance ;
sometimes the music jarred or I heard in it
the discordant laughter of a disappointed
hope; sometimes I saw wrinkles in the
fairest face. They have not brought tome
what I have yearned for in my heart of
hearts."

*^ What have you yearned for, Harold ?
Describe it."

Difficult, if not impossible, for it
springs not so much from others as from
an unsatisfied longing of the souL The
wind has whispered it, the leaves have
murmured it ; I have seen it in the
gloaming."

You are poetizing, Harold, as I have
heard you do a hundred times before, or
you have lied terribly."

''If I must choose between the two, I have
lied terribly. Ah, the smiling, gracious

women ! ' Am I fair ? ' ' You are beautiful.'
' Do you love me ? ' ' With all my
soul.' ' Swear that you will never love
another ! ' 'I swear it ! ' Is not that the
way the comedy goes ? I fall back upon a
morsel of your own philosophy — one must
do something with his days — and though,
unlike you (to be unlike you in anything is
to be at a disadvantage), I am fond of
dreaming, the world will not always give
you leisure. A bouquet is to be bought, a
white wrist is held out for the fastening of
a glove, a note has to be read and answered.
I am continuing the comedy, Mauvais.
Nature made me my own enemy. There
is something distressingly responsive in my
outward self ; my features have a trick of
becoming sympathetic, without regard to
my wishes. A woman smiles upon me, and
displays her white teeth — there is a world
of love in the well-shaped mouth; her eyes
look languishingly into mine ; I return her
smile ; my eyes melt in the light of hers ;
she presses my hand — ah ! the soft velvet
palms ! what have they not to answer for !
I press hers ; and so the comedy proceeds ;
but my heart plays no part in it. It is as
cold as stone."

'' Absolutely ? " said Mauvais, in an
amused tone.

'' Absolutely," said Harold, in a serious
tone.

Harold, you charm me out of myself,
and cause me to forget events wliicli wave
made us fugitives from our native laud''

'' I am happy to be of use."

"Have you subjected this comedy of
yours to criticism ? "

I have searched and examined it
learnedly and severely, and I have always
condemned it."

Then have you been a most insincere
actor, having played in it so often in a
mask which no man — or woman — saw."

Admitted. But how different has it
been with you ! You have entered heart
and soul into your pleasures. Life for you
has been a jewelled cup, into which love
flowed as often as you drained it ; and you
drained it often, Mauvais, and with zest."

You have envied me."

Never. I would not have changed
with you ; I would not change with you.
For if it happen, as it may, that that for
which I yearn come within my reach, I
shall taste a joy it is impossible for you
ever to have known, ever to know ! "

"Coxcomb!" exclaimed Maintain. "But
you are right, perhaps, in that part of your
hypothesis which applies to the future.
Alas ! you have thirty years the advantage
of me. What would I give for those thirty
years ! "

You are fond of life, Mauvais."

I worship it, and deplore the days that
pass too quickly by. Yes ; I am fond of
life, and use it to its proper end. Nature
bestows it, and says. Enjoy. I obey ; I
open my heart and soul to the pleasure to
be derived from all life, animate and inanimate,
which surrounds me, aud like the
bee I live on what is fairest."

"And sink to earth, clogged with
sweetness."

What, then ? It is not death ; nature
euphrates, and bids you enjoy once more.
Ungrateful to refuse. It is the only true
philosophy. I have loved a hundred times.
Nature in me has a most devout admirer,
and when spring comes round I open my
heart to it. Youth — which means beauty,
Harold — has an irresistible attraction tome.
Ah, if I possessed it in my own
person ! If it could be bought ! "

There are such fables."

That is the misfortune of it — they are

fables. I must die one day, I suppose.
If I could choose the time and manner of
my death, I would die in spring, with
evidences of beauty's birth around me."

"Would it not be better," said Harold
grimly, " to die surrounded by wintry
aspects? One could say good-bye with
greater equanimity. Mauvais, I am curious
upon certain matters. You will pardon
me if I continue speaking on a theme I
find fascinating."

Certainly. The theme is — "

You, Mauvais — yourself, your nature,
motives, inner life; for years you have
fascinated me."

You are entertaining me with a succession
of surprises, Harold. You have
made a study of me, then ? "

*' In my idle way, Mauvais, I have made
a study of you."

Give me some idea of myself — for of
course you know me thoroughly."

Most thoroughly, I think," said Harold
listlessly ; " but I will wait for a more
appropriate opportunity to satisfy your
curiosity. In the meantime, satisfy mine."

Proceed ; you will not overstep the
line."

That divides us ? No ; I will not
overstep it. Mauvais, you and I know
something of each other ; we have shared
danger and pleasure together. How many
adventures have we been engaged in !
Light enterprises undertaken to put life
into dull hours ! And always successful,
Mauvais. However small the whim, it
was gratified, never mind at what expense
to others."

"Do you intend," said Mauvais, ''to drag
the whole world into your exordium ? "

'' Heaven forbid 1 Every man for himself;
every woman, too; but she generally
is."

I have found it so."

Selfish to the backbone ; cunning ;
artful ; but unfortunately for herself,
weak."

"Not always, Harold," said Mauvais,
following with but an idle attention the
current of his companion's spoken thoughts.
These weak creatures are capable of
much that a man would shrink from.
Given to each equal scope and opportunity,
I would sooner incur the hatred of three
men than of one woman."

Yes, we learn these lessons ; but a

woman can be persuaded; lier nature is
gracious ; man's is brutal. There is a
weapon which, skilfully used, is stronger
than woman's whole artillery. That weapon
is flattery. You have used it, Mauvais,
with effect. True, that woman is capable
of much ; self-sacrifice, for one thing.
Then she has faith ; man has not. You
follow me, Mauvais ? "

For the life of me, Harold, I cannot
see where you are drifting."

Aptly said. JN^or can I ; but I have
been drifting ever since I can remember,
being governed by accidental moods."

Mauvais turned his eyes with languid
interest upon the face of his friend, saying,
I do believe you are speaking in earnest."

If so, it must be accidental, for such a
man as I cannot but be barren of serious
intention."

Seriousness is a mistake. He is the
wisest who is the least serious."

'' Then folly is wisdom."

Fools are the most serious of men."

"It is a pleasure to converse with a
man of intellect ; therein lies part of your
fascination."

One who did not know you as well as

I do, Harold, would suppose you had a
direct motive in your compliments."

I have a motive, Mauvais ; I wish you,
in honest truth, to answer me one question."

A hundred, Harold."

I will not tax you. It is a question
concerning woman. Of all the women you
have loved, whom did you love the best ? "

Of all the days I have enjoyed," retorted
Mauvais, " which did I enjoy the
most ? Of all the dinners I have eaten —
and so on, and so on. Harold, I cannot
answer you, for a sufficient reason."

The reason being — "

That I do not know; and indeed, if I
did, to express preference for one would
be to wrong the others."

*' Think a moment, Mauvais. Is there
not one to whom, in looking back, your
heart turns and acknowledges before all
others?"

One ! there are a dozen ! Are you
answered now? "

Yes ; and I thank you. You have a
light spirit, Mauvais ; you were created for
enjoyment. My last voyage to this fair
isle was not made in such agreeable company.
Perhaps you forget what you said

to me when you proposed the trip. When
a man was surfeited with the sweets or
disgusted with the buffets of the world,
you said, the Silver Isle was the land to
come to, to spin out what remained of the
days of his life. Without premeditation,
you justify your words. In the Silver
Isle, said you, dwells the spirit of simplicity.
Well, we shall have time to search
for it."

'' And if it present itself to you in the
shape of a beautiful girl ! "

'' I shall fall at her feet and worship her.
Would not you r,"

END OF VOL. ir.

ST. John's square.

.;^^^^'^■^^\VvV^^v;;.■;^VJ.W^||j;X<Civ;>v.^^^^^■^^^M;^

;'■■■■■■'■■ .,'i\ .;> > - t ^armam^^maKff,. ,."••' ^

;-^

■■]• ■^-v

'■>''■■?'-

■i^'.' : ■ - »■

4*:>'.

BY

B. L. FARJEON,

AUTHOR OF " Great POHTEE SQUAEE : A Mystery," " THE SACRED
NUGGET," " CHRISTMAS ANGEL," " GEIF," ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. III.

IContJon :
Wed Aj^D Donkey,

12, YOEK STEEET, COVENT GARDEN.

1886.
[All rights reserved.]

ST. .john's square.

CONTENTS.

CHAPTER I.

PAGE

Harold sees Faces in the Smoke of his

Cigar 1

CHAPTER 11.

A Woman's Voice brings to Harold a Dream

OF THE Past 21

CHAPTER III.
Ran's NEW Home . . . . . .41

CHAPTER IV.
Ran appears before his Judges . , . 67

CHAPTER V.
The Acquittal . , . . . .89

CHAPTER VI.
The old Wound reopened . . .112

CHAPTER VII.

PAGE

Harold demands an Explanation of Mauvais

153

CHAPTER VIII.
The Lovers 176

CHAPTER IX.

Harold finds himself an Outcast on the

Silver Isle 182

CHAPTER X.

Margaret receives the Record of Harold's

Guilt . 196

CHAPTER XI.

Harold and Mauvais visit the Hunchback
209

CHAPTER XII.
The Challenge 228

CHAPTER XIII.
The Duel on the Mount . . . .235

CHAPTER I.

HAROLD SEES FACES IN THE SMOKE OF HIS

CIGAR.

*' Your pardon, gentlemen."

It was the captain of the vessel who
broke in upon their conversation.

What have you to say, captain ? "

I await your orders ; I can get safe
anchorage here. Is our voyage at an
end?"

'' For the present. Yonder lies the
Silver Isle — a fair land."

It seems so ; but I have seen as fair,
at a distance, that turned out foul upon a
nearer acquaintance."

This will not. Let go your anchor ;
tomorrow morning I shall want a boat to
convey one of my servants ashore with a

VOL. III. B

letter to the islanders. There is nothing
to fear from them ; the people are not
cannibals."

Maybe not ; but you tell me they have
no king."

The greater fortune," said Harold,
for the king they have not. Having
no king, they cannot hunt one to
death."

'' Our king lives, and is safe."

*' In banishment," said Mauvais,
gloomily, 'ras we are. Better to have
died, sword in hand. Captain, it is likely
you will have to put up with us a day or
two longer."

'' The later we part company, the better
I shall be pleased."

Mauvais, with a nod, dismissed the
captain, and turned to Harold.

'' I am at a loss what to say to the
islanders, and to whom to address my
missive."

'* The letter you gave me on my visit to
the isle was addressed to one Sebastian. A
stately man, whose white hair flowed over
his shoulders. By this time, doubtless.

gathered to his forefathers. I can suggest
a younger man."

'' Name him."

Ran the hunchback.

Mauvais frowned. '' There lies an
obstacle."

Harold laughed blithely. *' My very
thought, Mauvais. If my memory does
not deceive me, you begged the islanders
to accept the hunchback as a trust in
kindly remembrance of yourself. Doubtless
they appreciated your generosity in
having sent them such a Caliban."

"And something worse," said Mauvais,
*' added to his hunch ship''

There could be nothing worse inhuman
form."

^' There is no saying. He had a
daughter, remember, of whom you gave
me a frightful description, and to whom
I gave the name of Evangeline. The
islanders may not have forgiven me for
the malicious trick. If the girl has fulfilled
the promise of her youth, we may
find not only a Caliban, but a younger
Sycorax on the Silver Isle. Would you

E 2

4 In a Silver Sea,

believe, Harold, that Ran once told me a
woman loved him ? It is inconceivable,
and yet I must do the hunchback the
justice to say that I believe him not to
be guilty of falsehood. You are silent,
Harold. Are you thinking of the hunchback's
daughter, and dreading her spells
For by this time, if she live (it may mercifully
have happened that they are both
removed from mortal spheres) she is a
mistress of all that is foul in nature. I
can see her already, with bent back,
searching the woods for poisonous herbs
for purposes of witchcraft. The account
you gave me of your voyage hither in such
company is very vivid in my mind : all his
hideousness reproduced in her, a very
monkey in mischief, body as twisted, hair
unkempt, limbs crooked — "

"Hold!" cried Harold. "Be a little
merciful. There are fair sins as ill-begotten."


Make me," continued Mauvais, appearing
to take pleasure in the subject, " a
group in stone of this interesting couple.
Do you remember my suggesting it to

you ? And look forward with a prophet's
eye, I said, and cut the figures as they will
be in twenty years. You performed the
task well ; you have the soul of an artist,
Harold, and when you are interested ina
work, excellence is the result. You
modelled Ran to the life, an old man
whose likeness lives only in the being we
know, and projecting your mind into the
future, you created in stone the figure of a
woman so startling in its weird ugliness
that it would have made the fortune of a
sculptor had the critics dealt with sit.
Ran and this hideous Evangeline side by
side, stooping over a pool of water. There
is no mistaking that the repulsive pair are
father and daughter. It was a trick,
Harold, but most truly original, that you
should have hewn out of the marble over
which these creatures are bending, a great
hollow, with a floor of glass, so that, being-filled
with clear water, the reflection of
the two faces is plainly seen. This marvellously
original Evangeline shall be setup
in the grounds of my house on the
Silver Isle—"

Impossible ! " interrupted Harold. " The
iconoclasts of our unhappy country have
by this time criticized it with their
hammers."

It happens otherwise, fortunately.
Foreseeing what was coming, and thinking
it not unlikely that wo should have to
fly the country, I had certain household
treasures packed up and conveyed to the
seaside. They are in the hold of this
vessel at the present moment, and your
Ran and Evangeline among them. I
shall have an opportunity, if the interesting
couple are alive, of comparing living
flesh with dumb stone, and of proving
what kind of a prophet you were when you
designed the group."

"It is scarcely worth while," said
Harold, with a slight tremor in his voice,
"to inflict humiliation upon me."

Humiliation, Harold ! Explain."

It is not pleasant to look, in our ripe
age, upon the mistakes of our earlier years.
My life — in other respects, as well as in
that of an artist — has been a failure. I am
painfully conscious of this lamentable conclusion.

The group you speak of may be
classed among youth's extravagances, which
serve their purpose for the time (not in
the healthiest way), and then are best
forgotten."

You underrate yourself, Harold.
Had you possessed industry and application—"


*' Two words, Mauvais, not to be found
in my vocabulary."

Nor in mine ; but I did not need them.
Had you possessed these qualities, you
would have shone in the world with even
a brighter light than you have shone in
private circles. For it has been said of
you frequently that you are an artist of a
divine mould, and that you belong, of
your own force and power, to the race of
those who have made art a religion. You
have in you the true fire, and the world
would have hailed you as a prophet inspired.
Your indolence stopped the way
of your advancement. The world has lost
a leader; your friends have been the
gainers."

"You are generous in your praise;

gi\^e me a further exhibition of your
generosity."

I can deny you nothing, Harold."

'* I thank you. You will, then, present
me with the group of Ran and Evangeline,
which, indeed and in truth, is a reproach
to the art I worship. Let me be judged
by what I believe is worthy of me, not by
what I know will tend to lower me."

*' If art workers were their own critics,
they would condemn their most perfect
productions. You would destroy your
child."

'rit is a crime, of which I do not care
to be perpetually reminded."

Pardon the seeming indelicacy of
the remark; I paid you for the group,
Harold."

The sculptor winced, as though a lash
had been laid across his shoulders. " You
paid me liberally, Mauvais."

It is mine, therefore, and I am its
owner, judge, and critic. You have a
perverse sensitiveness. You have done
nothing so fine as this. No, Harold, I
cannot give it you."

'' Sell it to me, then," said Harold, with
earnestness.

I am not," said Mauvais, somewhat
haughtily, and yet with a touch of amusement
in his tone, '' a dealer in curiosities.
I cannot sell the group. Dismiss the subject.
Come with me to the saloon, and
assist me in my letter to the islanders."

The ship lay at anchor that night. The
sailors sang their sea songs, the rough
melodies of which became softened as they
floated over the waters. With the moonlight
on it, the isle looked like a fairy isle ;
the soft waves lapped the shore, along
which sauntered here and there a couple in
their springtime. The future was theirs,
and their hearts were light ; no shadows
rested on their lives. Harold remained
upon the deck, gazing on the isle, and
thinking of the past. His thoughts
travelled in these grooves :

Could we but tear some leaves out of
the book ! Or, better still, could we destroy
the book itself ! Turn over the
pages, Harold. What do you see ?

^' Wasted days and nights ; mis spent

endeavour ; masses of violent colour ; harmony
robbed of sweetness ; beauty out of
proportion, such as weak-brained aesthetics
love to draw ; tangles of artificial flowers ;
painted women ; men with the souls of
waiters ; false protestations.

What a jumble of discordances !
Struggling one with another, not for the
purpose of arriving at some sort of order
and decency, but for the purpose of asserting
an enjoyment of the hours which
becomes pain when the touchstone of true
manliness is applied to it. Even at the
time its worst pages were written, a glimmering
of this entered my mind.

A witch' s revel. The beauties of nature
distorted and insulted, and mud flung
upon purity. Miracles on every side.
Spring's tenderness; summer's perfectness;
autumn's peacefulness ; winter's white loveliness
; — all mocked, derided, belittled (if
Nature can be) by false refinement or
coarse indulgence.

'' A creditable production, such a book,
for a mortal endowed with reason, imagination,
and an indolent affectation of ideality.

If this life were all, it would but be adding
wasted time to wasted time to occupy the
moments in regret and self-reproach. In
such a belief, every hour should be made
to yield its measure of enjoyment; it
would be an intellectual exercise of
opportunity to exact this tribute from
time which flies or lags according to our
humour. But ifc is not all ; we are something
higher than beasts of the field.

'' Herein lies the appalling shadow. The
phantom of your higher self rises before you,
and with sad eyes demands an account.

'' I render it. JSTot mine, all the fault.
My boat has drifted on, and I have not
striven to direct its course. I am wrong ;
there was a time when a spirit on the shore
seemed to say, ' There is in life an earnest,
lovely field before you; there is in life a
sweeter hope, in whose light your higher
aspirations shall be realized; love shall
give you earnestness and courage.' But
the voice I seemed to hear was of my own
creation. The spirit stood before me, but
its tongue was mute ; its heart never
responded to mine.

*' So much for the past. Let it go.
Retain only what is pure and sweet. The
future still is yours.

How many years ago is it since I
visited this fairy isle ? The memory of
the few hours I spent upon its shores
lingers with me like a pleasant dream.
The child I brought hither, in strange
uncongenial society, is a woman now, fair
and beautiful. There is no doubt of it.
Princess of the Silver Isle, I kiss your
fairy fingers.' My very words come back
to me. She gave me her hand, with
nature's true grace, and so I left her.

Were I a painter, I would draw the
picture. The child, the hunchback, and I.
The islanders standing a little apart, the
reapers looking on. All the accessories
perfect. But without being a painter, I can
draw Evangeline's likeness: No Sycorax,
Mauvais. The loveliest Miranda. If I
had such a spirit-slave as Ariel to show
me this Miranda in her living form !

Dreams, Harold ! will you never be
practical? I answer myself. I think —
never."

As Harold gazed and mused, the night
deepened, and the lovers left the sea-shore
for the inland.

At midnight Mauvais came on deck,
smoking a cigar, and walked to where
Harold was lying on his side with the
moonlight streaming on him.

"Asleep, Harold?"

The sculptor did not reply ; he had
fallen asleep, with tender fancies in his
mind. His position was a dangerous one ;
his form swayed to and fro with the
rocking of the ship in the swell of the ^
waves, and a sudden lurch would have
sent him into the sea. Mauvais stooped
over him and awoke him. Harold opened
his eyes languidly.

Cruel to wake me," he murmured. " I
was dreaming of another world."

You might have been in it," said
Mauvais, '* but for me. A deeper swelling
of a chance wave, and you would have
glided into the sea."

'' And so through water to another state
of being. An easy mode of transition,
which one would choose if one had the

power ; but there consciousness sets in. It
is dangerous, too, they say, to sleep with
the moonlight on your face ; and I have
been doing so. Madness might visit the
sleeper, a different kind of madness from
that which we endeavour to hide from the
knowledge of the world. Give me a cigar,
Mauvais. So, you didn't wish to lose me."

'' Life on the isle," replied Mauvais,
imitating unconsciously the indolent tone
of his friend, '' would be intolerable without
a kindred soul such as yours to sympathize
with."

Or play upon. Eh, Mauvais ? Confess.
You have used men."

'' Having the right."

'^ Undoubtedly. Who has ever disputed
it ? You should have been a king, and
your right would have been divine. Notice
how still the air is. It scarcely disturbs
the smoke from our cigars, which of its
own volition ascends and spreads until it is
merged into invisible ether. It is pretty
while it lasts, and gives ample time for
fancy in the way of faces. Here is a face ;
Ran's. It is impossible for you to see it .

raise one for yourself. My Ran twists and
curls and grins with impisli malice. Ran
was a strong man — strong in character, I
mean. Between you and him some passages
have taken place. He saved your life, I
believe ? "

He rendered me service at a critical
time. I. paid him for it."

As you always do. You pay, and
there's an end. Blood, brain, heart, are
so bought and fairly paid for — even the
soul may be included, for it is customary
to pay for prayer. What can have induced.
a being like Ran to jeopardize his life for
you ? He is not too fond of his betters.'

"You forget, he was my servant."

He is free now. All men are equals
on the Silver Isle. A state of things we
have flown from ; I never thought of that.
So ! Eanf's face has curled itself away
not the thinnest line remains. And
here comes a perfect cluster of faces,
women's faces, all lovely. A vision of
the women of the isle, enchanting in the
prospect it holds out. To think that smoke-colour
should be capable of such variety

and vividness ! I am becoming resigned
to the loss of a worn-out world. There
was nothing new in it, Mauvais ; day after
day, week after week, the same. Here we
have the chance of something novel in
sensation."

What you sigh for," said Mauvais, ina
tone of quiet contempt, '' may happen,
and then you will taste a joy it is impossible
I can ever have enjoyed."

You have a faithful memory. The
jangle of faces has disappeared, and in the
curling wreaths I see one, the fairest and
most beautiful of all. What name to
attach to it ? — there have been so many !
What name ? What name ? Am I grown
suddenly old that I cannot recall the name
of one so exquisitely fair ? ' '

*' As you say, Harold, there are so
many."

"But this one, of all others. Simple,
childlike, with no knowledge of the world,
friendless and alone, innocent, helpless asa
flower. Tut ! tut ! I have it on my
tongue, and it will not come."

'^ Why trouble yourself about her ? She

"has forgotten you, as you have forgotten
her."

I have never forgotten her ; but age
plays tricks. Do you not find it so ? You
are older than I, and therefore a better
judge. Ah ! I have it. Clarice ! "

Mauvais flicked the ash off his cigar.
'' Clarice. Yes, she was fair, and may
have deserved all your encomiums."

She did, as you know."

*' You are dictatorial. Despite all your
denials you have faith in woman. I never
had." •

I am in a strange mood, Mauvais.
Clarice was all I have described."

To please you, granted. What then ? "

Merely that the age of chivalry never
existed, for the reason that men are men."

And women, women. You have
finished your rhapsody, I presume."

I extinguish it with this cigar." He
threw his lighted cigar into the sea. The
light flickered for a moment, and then was
extinguished. " And so, its brief joy slain,
it drifts as I and others have drifted, into
the unknown. Good-night, Mauvais."

VOL. III.

'^ Good-night, mad-brain."

The next morning a boat was rowed to
shore, and a messenger landed, bearing a
letter, which he was instructed to deliver to
some person in authority. It ran as follows :

Dear Friends of the Silver Isle."
A cruel destiny compels me once more
to seek shelter among you. My country
is in the hands of a lawless rabble, Who
have torn down the sacred symbols of
authority. Had opportunity offered, I
would have chosen to die by the side of
my king, but I was debarred that happiness.
Compelled to fly — the choice of an honourable
death not being mine — my thoughts
travelled to the peaceful land in which I
passed some happy years. I feel that I
shall be welcome. The house I built upon
your isle will shelter me ; I desire to retire
to it, for rest and seclusion ; and when
my mind, disturbed by recent events, has
recovered its balance, I shall mix among
you as of old, and take my share in the
duties of citizenship. I have with me a
few relics which I saved from fortune's

wreck, and these I shall convey to my
house when ifc is ready to receive me. — In
all good will, dear friends,

•^Mauvain."

The letter was read and commented
upon, and the messenger was questioned.

Is Mauvais alone ? "

'^ No ; he has friends and servants with
him."

Then it is for others, as well as for
himself, he desires a welcome ? "

To this the messenger made no reply. •

Mauvais speaks of relics he has brought
with him. Of what do they consist ? "

Furniture, family memorials, and suchlike."


"Acquaint us with your full instructions."


'' Simply to receive your reply, and
convey it to Mauvais."

'' Does he know that his house is
occupied ? "

'' I cannot say."

After a long deliberation, at which the
messenger was not allowed to be present,

c 2

the following letter was sent by his hands
to Man vain.

** From the inhabitants of the Silver Isle
to Mauvais :

t< We recognize the claim you have upon
us. You own a house and land in our
isle, and we have also treasure of yours,
which we are ready to pay over to you.
Your house has been in the occupation of a
family named Sylvester ; it is in their occupation
now. A few days must necessarily
elapse before they can shift their home ; in
the interval we offer you the best accommodation
at our disposal. Let us know
your pleasure."

When this letter was read upon shipboard,
Harold made a wry face.

Ifc smacks of constraint," he said;
there is a flavour of vinegar about it."

But Mauvais professed to be satisfied
with its tone, saying it was sufficient for
him that his rights were recognized ; and
he informed the islanders, through his
messenger, that his pleasure was to remain
on board ship until his house was empty,
and ready to receive him.

CHAPTER II.

A woman's voice beings to harold a dee am

OF THE PAST.

The news of Mauvais's return spread far
and wide over the Silver Isle, and was not
hailed with satisfaction. The prevailing
thought with regard to him was, " We have
had enough of strangers." This expression
of feeling concerned neither Evangeline nor
Margaret Sylvester, two of the three
strangers living on the isle. It touched
only Ran the hunchback.

A week after the exchange of the letters
between Mauvais and the islanders, Harold
he and Mauvais being still on board ship
said to Mauvais, —

'* I sigh for mother earth ; this monotony
of rest, this eternal rocking to and fro, is
sapping the very foundations of my being."

I, too, am weary of it," said Mauvais.

Let us impart variety into the hours ;
we will go ashore."

*' I do not stir from the ship until my
house is ready to receive me."

Which according to reckoning — I am
becoming quite nautical in my expressions
will not be for many days yet. I cannot
endure this uneventful routine any longer ;
I shall pay my respects to the soil. Accompany
me in disguise, and we will seek
adventure. No ? Well, I must go alone.
You will see me again in the evening.
Entrust me with a commission."

'' Ascertain for me, if you can, the exact
day upon which this family of the Sylvester
will oblige me by quitting my house,
and if in a gentle way you can intimate to
them that they are lagging somewhat and
are thereby entailing discomfort upon me,
I shall not object. You may say to them,
if you please, in the event of their showing
a disposition to condemn me to these planks
for a longer time than is absolutely necessary,
that I should regret to be compelled
to enforce my rights."

'' By force, Mauyain ? "

If necessary."

It might not be prudent to adopt such
a course."

'' I am accustomed to shape my own
course, Harold."

Forgive me for supposing it possible
you could be in error. Adieu till evening."

It was noon when he left the ship, and
night before he returned.

Mauvais, waiting on deck for his friend,
greeted him immediately with the question :

How were you received ? "

A moment, Mauvais. I am really, in
my idle way, full of news, but it must
filtrate slowly, my mind being dilatory.
You have wine there." Harold filled a
large glass, and emptied it at a draught.
'' Nectar. Life is worth having."

Have you not eaten since you left the
ship ? "

*' A little. I asked for fruit, and they
gave it to me ; but they did not give it
without the asking ; and only one man
invited me to his house. This cigar, Mauvais,
has a delicious flavour. Life is a

precious gift. I foresee more unlikely
things than that I should become the grossest
of materialists. How was I received ?
Variously. By some who did not know me
I was looked upon, I think, as a curiosity.
Our friends yonder are not accustomed to
fine gentlemen."

I am beginning to alter my opinion of
them. It may be nearer the mark to say
that they are not accustomed to gentlemen.
A distinction with a difference."

Decidedly ; but I prefer my own words
in this instance, for I am not at all certain
that the Silver Isle is without specimens
of the gentleman, pure and simple — as in
sober truth he ought to be. I have seen
to-day men whose manners would not disgrace
a court, men whose stateliness was
natural. Their dignity becomes them the
better because, in my inexperienced eyes,
it lacks artificiality."

Ah, I have sometimes thought that you
were better fitted for the grove than the
court."

If that be so, I shall be here in my
element. To nearly every person I met on

the isle I was a stranger, and as I have
said, I was regarded as a curiosity. It
might pay us, Mauvais, to exhibit ourselves
in cages."

Is it possible, Harold, for you to
speak seriously for three consecutive
minutes ? "

I do not know ; I have never tried.
Anything in the shape of effort is eminently
distasteful to me. When I have a thing
to tell, I must tell it in my own way.
Among the strangers on the isle there
were, perhaps, a dozen men and women'
who had a remembrance of me. One or
two of these, recognizing me, smiled, and
then checked their smiles ; the others,
recognizing me, frowned, and did not
check their frowns. It set me thinking a
little. I asked for Father Sebastian ; he
is dead. So, there I found myself a
stranger, in a land of strangers, and
impressed with the distressing conviction
that with the men and women of the isle I
was a failure. But happily for me there
are children in the world. Mauvais, I
have always been successful with children,

and those I met on the Silver Isle won my
heart, as I may say without vanity I won
theirs."

It is not clifi&cult to believe, Harold.
You have a sunny manner, which frequently
compels men to overlook your
faults. I myself, having in your absence
been angry with you, have forgotten my
anger when you have appeared. You
possess a charming magnetism, Harold."

'' You are graciousness itself. But I am
afraid that I am not magnetic to the
serious-minded ; when they and I come
into contact, it is I who am magnetized.
There is a certain attractiveness in our conversations,
Mauvais, upon which I have
occasionally pondered. They resemble the
flight of a swallow. We never seem able
to come straight to the point. We are full
of interludes — "

'' Of your creation, Harold ; I am the
audience, you the actor."

'* Is it so ? I hope I play my part well.
The present conversation is a case in point.
Here am I speaking to you upon a serious
subject — "

*' A serious subject ! " exclaimed Mauvais,
laughing.

Yes. Have I not approached it ? It
shows the trivial nature of my mind. I
will come to it very soon. I was speaking
of the reception I met with on the isle. In
brief, some looked upon me as a curiosity,
some smiled upon me, and then frowned ;
some frowned upon me, and then did not
smile ; which was a pity, as it disturbed
the balance. Children spring into my arms
at my invitation, and allowed me to fondle
them ; but strangely enough their parents*
took them from me, without ' with your
leave ' or ' by your leave.' Even two or
three maidens, who seemed inclined to
receive me agreeably, were drawn out of
the reach of my fascinations. I deplored
this deeply, for they were very fair. Upon
the whole, therefore, I am inclined to the
belief that I was right when I told you that
the letter the islanders sent in reply to yours
had a flavour of vinegar about it. They will
not erect triumphal arches when you land."

'' It matters not ; I shall be able to win
them over."

'' I executed your commission. The
Sylvesterss are building a house into which
they will remove as soon as it is completed.
This will occupy them another week. The
house is of wood, and only one storey,
covering a large space of ground. Those
are the most sensible tenements ; it is as
Nature intended us to live. The Sylvesterss
are respected on the isle. The silver-mine
you discovered, and made yours by purchase
of the land, has been occasionally
worked — but not during the last few years
and the islanders have kept faithful
account of the royalty due to you. I was
requested to hand this paper to you. It
is a statement of dates and weight of silver
produced, which no doubt you will find
correct."

You are forgetting the serious subject,
Harold."

I am not likely to, Mauvais ; it will
unfold itself presently. It was not my
good fortune until the evening to meet
with the Sylvesterss who have done you
the honour to occupy your house in your
absence. They are under an obligation

to you; but it seems they have squared
accounts by rendering you an obligation."


"In what way ?"

By taking charge of Evangeline ; she
has lived with them as their child."

Was not her father a sufficient guardian
? "

"Her father?"

Ran."
}/ " Pardon me ; I forgot. Upon that
point I am not informed."

I must be dull-witted, Harold, for I
cannot see how these Sylvesterss have laid
me under an obligation by adopting even
so ill-favoured a being as Evangeline as
their child. It was a matter which concerned
only themselves and the hunchback."


*' You forget the nature of the letter you
wrote to the islanders when you sent Enfant
Evangeline in my charge to the Silver
Isle. In the house of a magistrate, the
only house of which the doors were open
to me, is a box, inscribed with your name.
This box contains a record of all transactions

and doings in wliicli you bear a part ;
the letter I delivered to Father Sebastian
is there,, and I asked to see it. In it you
say : ' I send you a trust which I ask you
to accept in kindly remembrance of one
who owes you already a debt of gratitude
he can never repay ; by doing so you will
confer upon me an inestimable obligation.'
Evangeline, being then a child, it was
naturally supposed that your wishes would
be better carried out if she were adopted
by a family who had children of their own
with whom Evangeline could associate."

Let me think a moment, Harold.
Eanf appeared to be devoted to his child.
His consent to the separation had to be
obtained."

'' He gave it freely."

It is incomprehensible."

You would not undertake to judge the
actions of such a creature as Ran by an
ordinary standard. He may have wished
to show he was capable of self-sacrifice.
Be that as it may, Evangeline has lived with
the Sylvesterss, apart from Ran, and thus
you are in some sense under an obligation

to them. I was curious about these
Sylvesterss, on Evangeline's account more

than on their own I see a look of

inquiry in your eyes."

I am endeavouring to discover why
you take so singular an interest in this
Evangeline."

*' Was I not her sponsor on the isle ? "

And have you not fashioned her in
stone ? Has the hideous a fascination for
you as well as the beautiful ? By the way,
she lives ? "

'' So I am informed." «

You did not see her, then ? "

"No."

And Ran ? Does he still favour the
earth with his presence ? "

"Yes. Him I shall see tomorrow."

Continue. I interrupted you at the
words, ' you were curious about these
Sylvesterss.' "

I asked where they were to be found,
and was told they were absent. In the
evening, as I was making my way to the
boat which was waiting for me, I heard the
voice of a woman, singing. The voice was

soft and tender, and very sweet. Only
once before in my life have I heard such
singing, and then, Mauvais, you were in
my company. The woman who was
singing was walking towards me, but owing
to a curve in the path — a narrow path,
between hedges — she was not yet in sight.
Mauvais, I cannot describe to you the
impression this strangely sweet voice had
upon me. It recalled a scene in the past
which has lived in my memory, but has
never been so boldly reproduced. Why,
Mauvais, if you will believe me, the
narrow lane through which I was walking
vanished from my sight, and with it the
sunset which glorified the heavens. Fora
moment the present was suspended, and
I saw a room in which three men were
sitting, you, I, and another. I was idle ;
you and the third were playing for high
stakes. The room was only partially
lighted up ; the distant part of it was in
shadow. Moving in the shadow was a
girl, almost a child, exquisite as a fairy
dream ; and standing near her, motionless,
was another, older than the dancer, singing

softly in a voice as sweet as that which
now I heard. The vision lasted but for a
moment, and I was again standing between
the fragrant hedgerows in the narrow lane.
The woman approached me, and I stood
aside to allow her to pass. Our eyes met.
Mauvais, you spoke just now of magnetism.
Some magnetism was at work at the
moment of our meeting ; it flashed from
her eyes into mine, from my eyes into hers,
and it held us spell-bound, as in a magic
chain."

"A young woman, and alone," said
Mauvais, lighting another cigar, and
handing his case to Harold. " I always
take an interest in these adventures. You
were fortunate that there were no churls
near to object to your paying this pretty
creature the attentions of a gentleman."

She was at least forty years of age,
and she spoke no word to me, and I no
word to her. The spell broken, she passed
away in silence. At a distance I followed
her until I met a person, of whom I asked
the woman's name. It was Margaret."

Not Margaret only. Your cigar is

VOL. III. D

out, Harold. Light a fresh one, from
mine. What other name does this woman
bear ? "

Sylvester. Now let me tell you what
I learnt of the history of this woman."

With pleasure. You have been industrious,
Harold."

She is not a native of the Silver Isle.
Her husband and her husband's father,
both of whom were born here, had many
years ago a vagrant fit which nothing could
cure but a spell of adventure in the old
world. They left the Silver Isle, not
knowing whether they should ever return
to it. At that time Margaret's husband
was a boy, and he and his father in the
old world led a wandering life as travelling
actors — you are becoming interested, I see.
When the boy had grown to manhood he
and Margaret met, and from that time were
never separated. The usual story, Mauvais
they loved."

You are a polished story-teller, Harold;
you invest the commonest incidents with
a certain interest. Margaret was alone
when they met."

"So far alone that lie had no relatives ;
she was an orphan. The odd part of the
affair is that Margaret, at the time she and
the Sylvesterss were thrown into each other's
company, was leading the same kind of life
as themselves — had, in fact, been brought
up to it."

There is nothing very odd in it. A
simple coincidence, of a kind upon which
weak-minded and superstitious people hang
absurd and childish theories."

That is all you see in it, Mauvais."

That is all. What more do you expect
me to see ? "

I cannot say. Mauvais, enlighten me.
I have already confessed that I have made
a study of you. Is there nothing beneath
the surface ? "

*you are going a little too far,
Harold."

Ah, if I had your temperament ! You
are not easily disturbed, Mauvais."

Not easily."

I envy you. For pure enjoyment of
life I know no one whose qualities are
superior to yours."

D 2

Depend upon it, Harold, my philosophy
is the best. You have not told
me what brought Margaret to the Silver
Isle."

The Sylvesterss were not fortunate in
the old world ; and when the son Paul and
Margaret were married they adopted the
sensible course of returning to the Silver
Isle, in which, if ambitious aspirations cannot
be realized, peace and plenty can at least
be depended on."

'* This, then, is the serious subject you
wished to speak of."

"You mistake, Mauvais," replied Harold,
in a tone of surprise ; " there is nothing
serious in what I have told you. A web of
odd fragments, strung together in a fanciful
way by a man too fond of dreaming. You
should understand me better by this time.
The serious part of my communication
refers to Ran."

Now you really interest me, Harold."

You said lately that Ran once boasted
to you that a woman loved him. Love is
still the theme, and Ran the hero. Would
you believe there are sinners on the Silver

Isle — fair sinners who love not wisely?
And that such a man should inspire the
passion ! Yet it is gravely averred that
between Ran and some woman on the
isle love-passages have taken place. My
knowledge of the affair extends thus far.
It being known that I was on the isle, a
messenger seeks me, and requests me to
accompany him to the house of a magistrate
before whom and others Ran is summoned
to appear tomorrow. To this magistrate,
a greybeard, I accordingly present myself.
You are come in good time,' says the
gentleman to me, and forthwith launches
into the subject, pledging me beforehand
not to make it common talk. Ran,
it appears, has led a lonely life upon
the isle, having one whole friend in
Evangeline, and some half friends in the
members of the Sylvester family. Add
to these the woman whom the hunchback
has bewitched, and the list of those
favourably disposed to him is complete.
The magistrate expressed himself to mein
these terms : ' During the years,' he
said, ' that the hunchback has lived upon

8 In a Silver Sea.

the isle, lie has broken no law within our
knowledge. He has held aloof from us,
but that he was free to do. He has
not attended our churches ' — (by the way,
Mauvais, that is a duty in which we
must not fail ; the islanders evidently set
store upon it, and it will invest us with
an air of sanctity) — ' He has not attended
our churches,' said the magistrate, ' butin
that he was also entitled to be free ;
it is a matter affecting the conscience, and
we dictate to no man's. His residence on
the isle was not agreeable to us, but we
had made him welcome here, and so long
as he openly violated no law, and did not
brawl or create dissension, the welcome
could not be withdrawn. An explanation
is now to be demanded of him, and it is
but just that you and Mauvais, who are
responsible for his presence among us,
should attend to bear what charge is to
be brought against him.' It was then that
it occurred to me to ask whether the
letter you gave me for Father Sebastian
was in existence ; it was produced from
the box I told you of inscribed with

your name. I scarcely knew what answer
to make to the request for our attendance."


You did not answer for my movements,
Harold."

No, only for my own. I promised to
attend, and said that I would mention the
matter to you."

I shall not trouble myself; an account
from your lips of what transpires will
be infinitely more diverting. Ran is an
insolent knave, and age cannot have
improved him. Is it certain that he will
obey the summons ? "

It appears to be doubtful ; he has
made himself not only disliked, but feared.
However, tomorrow will show whether,
having come into collision with the
islanders, he will risk open warfare with
them. I confess to looking forward to
the entertainment with pleasurable anticipation
; and I am more than curious to seethe
kind of woman Ran has managed to
beguile. Mauvais, it occurs to me that
our residence on the isle is likely to be
attended with some excitement and amusement.

Are you going below ? I shall
remain on deck, and dream of one woman's
fair face and another woman's sweet voice.
The nightingale's notes are not more
melodious."

CHAPTER III.

eanf's new home.

The charge that Ran was about to be
called upon to answer was one of serious
import, and colour was given to it by the
conduct of the hunchback himself.

Morality with the islanders was a religion,
and those who violated its laws could
not hope to be forgiven. Being mortal,
they were not without sin; but sin was
punished without mercy. The uncompromising
attitude of the simple people
towards those among them who were
guilty, harsh and uncharitable as it was
in its individual aspect, had often, doubtless,
a deterrent effect upon others whose
footsteps were straying. In this respect,
its application was productive of good;
but erring souls were made to suffer most
keenly, and led to believe that forgiveness

was only to be obtained hereafter
by a lifetime of expiation. " Forgiveness
must come from above," said the islanders ;
*rit is not ones to bestow." Vicarious
atonement was unknown ; such a doctrine
would have been scouted. Each must
account for his own. Crime and sin were
followed by earthly punishment, which
upon the Silver Isle generally assumed the
shape of personal avoidance. The guilty
one was cut off from companionship, and
necessarily from sympathy. Those who
from his birth had greeted him with
affection now turned their faces from him.
The friendly hand was withheld, the loving-word
was not spoken. If pity was felt, it
was not expressed. He was not allowed
to starve ; he was simply made to feel that
he had lost his place among his fellowmen.
In such a land as the Silver Isle it
was difficult to conceive a punishment more
bitter.

It is often thus with the kindest hearts
hearts which throb and quiver at the
lightest touch. Faith once broken can
never be restored; an injustice inflicts a
wound which can never be healed.

Some time after Ran's discovery of
gold in the caves of the Silver Isle a vessel
named the White Dove anchored in the
bay. Its device was a dove lying helpless
within the talons of an eagle. The White
Dove was loaded with ploughs and harrows
and agricultural implements of superior
make and construction, and when its
captain was asked whether he came to
trade, his answer was that his business
concerned only one man on the Silver Isle
Ran the deformed. It then transpired
that the cargo was consigned to Ran,
between whom and the captain a long
private interview took place. A canvas
tent was hastily thrown up, and the cargo
was landed and stored therein ; a written
notice affixed outside the tent proved to bean
invitation to the islanders to inspect the
cargo of the White Dove. All the latest
improvements in agricultural science were
there exemplified, and the islanders immediately
recognized their value. " But of
what use," they asked each other, *' is such
a cargo to Ran ? He has only himself to
provide for, and he has hitherto shown no

disposition to till the land." They were
soon enlightened. Matthew Sylvester
being employed as an intermediary,
signified to the islanders that Ran desired
to express in a substantial manner his
acknowledgment of the kindness of the
inhabitants of the isle in permitting him to
reside upon their soil and live his life
among them unmolested. The cargo had
been carefully selected to meet their
requirements, and to assist them in their
noble pursuit. It was theirs ; Ran
wished them to accept it from him as a
free gift.

They wondered at this, bearing in mind
the scant good-will that existed between
them. '' The hunchback owes us nothing,"
they said, with a twinge of self-reproach,
and they hesitated before accepting so
valuable a gift. Here and there doubts
were raised. The cargo was the most
costly that had ever come to the Silver
Isle ; how had Ran become possessed of
it ? Matthew Sylvester conveyed to them
Ran's explanation. He had long had at
his disposal a store of wealth which had

lain idly by, and he had lately come into
possession of further treasure, of which he
desired to make judicious use. The islanders
suspected nothing ; their wildest imaginings
could scarcely have hit upon the truth,
and the explanation was received in good
faith. So much mystery surrounded Ran
that what would have been regarded in
other men as fabulous was in him regarded
as credible and commonplace. Still they
refused to accept the gift without rendering
an equivalent for it. Then said Ran,
through his spokesman, —

Let it be so ; it shall be a matter of
bargain between us. What can they give
me in exchange ? "

He lacked neither food nor cattle. He hit
upon the only equivalent he would accept.

There is a piece of waste land," he
said, still conveying his wishes by proxy,
*' uncultivated and unbuilt upon, which I
would call my own."

The question was asked of him what
he would do with this land.

Dig a grave on it," he replied. '' But
no ; I will do better than that''

The land lie coveted was about twenty-acres
in extent, beautifully situated on the
slope of a hill which dipped into a valley
known as the Yalley of Lilies. It was to
some extent a fair exchange, although the
balance of value still lay with the cargo,
and the bargain was made, the more readily
on the part of the islanders because, after
the display of so gracious a spirit by Ran ,
they were not unwilling that he should
have an opportunity of showing that
he was made of better stuff than they
had given him credit for. One or two
said, —

The hunchback is weary of the silent
warfare that has existed between us.
When he first came upon our isle a bad
commencement was made. Many sweet
nuts have rough shells. "We may have
been mistaken in Ran. His nature may
have more of good in it than we have been
able to discern."

Ah," said Ran, with a bitter smile,
upon hearing, second-hand, the expression
of these sentiments, " they have truly been
mistaken in me. They did not know I

was one of those men who, being struck
on one cheek, meekly hold out the other
for a second blow. One would suppose it
difficult to discover in this world who are
the sinners and who the saints."

Without further parley, however, the
transaction was completed. Deeds were
drawn up and signed, and the land became
Ran's freehold.

It was not noticed at the time that it
included the grave in which Bertha's child
was buried.

Then the islanders became curious to
learn to what use Ran intended to turn
his land. He did not leave them long
in doubt. The White Dove took its
departure, and after a reasonable interval
returned with another cargo, consigned
also to Ran, consisting of the choicest
timber for building and decorative purposes.
Up to this time Ran had not
been seen in the negotiations respecting
the transfer of the freehold. He had
been observed at nights walking over his
land, examining it and measuring it, and
apparently making himself thoroughly

familiar with its formation and peculiarities
; but he came and went in silence.
He now made his appearance among the
islanders.

Age had not improved him. His hump
had grown larger, his body smaller; his
face was more morose, his limbs more disproportioned,
his manners more uncouth.
A rough shell, indeed, giving no indication
of hidden sweetness.

He came to make application for permission
to hire a number of men to help
him build a house upon his freehold. As
this intention appeared to convey a desire
for companionship, permission was readily
given, and he at once made arrangements
with the best workmen on the isle, selecting
them with shrewd judgment, and
engaging them by written bond for a
certain fixed time. He paid them liberally
in such articles of ornament and utility as
they were anxious to possess. Some bargained
for cattle and waggons ; some for
tools and implements ; some for skins and
silks and seed ; some for books and scientific
instruments. Thus Ran became the

means of introducing into the isle many
curious and useful articles of wliicli the
islanders had heard but which they had
never possessed. The White Dove brought
all that was desired, and more ; Ran's
orders were given in the most liberal spirit,
and payment for labour was made with
lavish, almost reckless generosity* In
speaking of him afterwards the men who
worked for him said they believed
their most extravagant demands would
have been complied with, so long as they
obeyed the orders of their employer ; they
might have had tools of gold had they
asked for them ; but nevertheless there
was scarcely one who did not regret that
he had ever entered into service with
the hunchback, and with singular unanimity
they all declared that they would as
soon work for the Evil One as again for
such a man. Could they have quitted his
service with honour they would have done
so without hesitation ; but he held them
by bond, and the law was on his side.
For this discontent Ran was responsible.
Everything seemed to be so devised as to be-vol.

III. E

wilder the men ; they were unceremoniously
taken from one piece of work which was
growing beneath their hands (for they were
faithful workers, and took delight in their
work), and put on another; orders were
given and as they were about to be executed
were countermanded, out of sheer maliciousness
it was contended ; comrades
were parted, and kept at a distance from
one another; before a task was finished
the men engaged on it were taken away,
and others who were ignorant of the first
design appointed to finish it ; not only
maliciousness, but jealousy, reigned. In
all this confusion, in all these eccentricities,
the hunchback was the moving spirit;
never for a moment was he still; '' He has
quicksilver, not blood, in his veins," said
the men ; he was restless and irresistible,
and seemed to possess the power of being
in a dozen places at one time. Occasionally
he said, " Well done; " but those to whom
the praise was addressed did not receive it
with pleasure ; " It will be well done," said
they, " when our time has expired." The
conformation of the grounds around the

building that was being erected was altered;
hillocks were levelled, watercourses formed,
a pretty stream was made to meander
through the land ; they recognized no
system in the orders that were given. Here
their judgment was at fault, being warped
by prejudice, for in the midst of all this
apparent bewilderment a fine design was
being surely and systematically accomplished,
and Ran 's project, well considered
and matured, was being carried out exactly
and to the minute as he intended.
The workmen themselves, when it dawned
upon their minds, ascribed it to magic, an
idea which the more practical ones laughed
at, without being able to account for the
results accomplished. Gradually and surely
the work progressed until it was in some
part completed ; and then it was seen that
Ran owned the most perfect and beautiful
house in the Silver Isle. Its originality
added to its beauty. If it was Ran's
desire to invest it with a mystery which
rendered it impossible for any of the workmen
to give a faithful description of it, he
achieved his wish, for none could correctly

E 2

Library

describe its interior. One said it contained
so many rooms ; another said so many ;
not two accounts agreed. The grounds
around the house were laid out with exquisite
taste, and rare shrubs and flowers
were imported to beautify them ; the
marvel was that such a being as Eanf
could have conceived and executed a plan
so strangely beautiful. From all parts of
the isle men, women, and children came to
admire, and many lingered in the hope of
seeing some of the hidden wonders ; but
none were allowed to enter the building.
Over the portico, on a slab of marble, was
affixed, in letters of gold, fashioned by an
artisan in the old world, the word " Chrys-
athos."

'' It is the name of the house," said the
islanders, and asked each other the meaning
of the strange word.

Ill-nature suggested that the word had
an evil signification, but one more learned
than the rest discovered that the word was
Greek.

*' And its meaning?" asked the ill-natured
ones.

The gold-flower."

This gave consistency to the device of
the letters over the portico, each one of
which was fashioned in the shape of a
flower.

So much being done, something still
remained which fanned into a fire the
sentiment of repulsion for the hunchback
by which the islanders were originally
animated towards him. The house being
built and the grounds laid out, it became
necessary to hide them. By means of
thick fences, close hedges, and trees, Ran
succeeded in shutting out both house and
ground entirely from the view of passers-by.
A proceeding so unusual excited
something like anger in the breasts of
the islanders. It was as though the
hunchback had said, " There is nothing in
common between us. You and I are apart
from each other." In this sense they
accepted it. He had thrown down, in a
manner peculiarly offensive to them, a
glove which they picked up. From that
moment they looked upon Ran with complete
aversion and distrust.

He did not complain. He had never
courted their favour, and he cared not that
it was withheld from him. He had accomplished
his wishes. In his beautiful house
he was as completely cut off from his fellow-beings,
as he was in his huts on the mountain
of snow.

A common roadway ran past the frontage
of his freehold, and in Ran's goings to and
fro he was in the habit of meeting the
islanders, who had used the path for generations.
Between him and them no greeting
was ever exchanged. Children stood aside
to allow him to pass; women held their
garments close to them, so that they should
not come in contact with his. The familiar
path ran parallel with the right bank of
the Valley of Lilies, and so determined now
were the islanders to avoid all association
with the hunchback, that they cut another
path on the left bank. The old roadway
immediately fell into disuse. " Avoid it,"
was the tacit and universal resolve. No
surer sign could have been given of the
deep antagonism which existed between
Ran and the inhabitants of the Silver Isle.

After all these years, he was more than
ever an alien from the sympathies of his
fellows.

But, with a soul that loved beauty, that
worshipped it silently in every form, Ran
turned this circumstance to advantage.
He clothed the old roadway with wildflowers,
and Nature, benign and beneficent,
gracious to one and all alike, was soon
seen here in her most beautiful aspect.
Ran s freehold literally lay embosomed ina
bed of brightest form and colour.

The only human beings who still held
to Ran were Evangeline, Bertha, and the
Sylvesterss. It was singular that neither
Evangeline nor any member of the
Sylvester family had been asked by Ran
to visit his new possession. Bertha was
the only person permitted to enter and
roam about at will, and out of this circumstance
had grown the trouble which now
hung over the hunchback's head.

There were some on the isle to whose
minds, in their strong dislike of him, Ran
was a nettle. '' It reflects shame upon us'*
they thought, " that such a man should be

allowed to live among us. Some evil will
fall upon the land if we do not rid ourselves
of him' But this could not be
accomplished by any action of theirs.
Ran had now as strong a claim to residence
as themselves. He had purchased
land of them, and it was his for ever.
The more they thought of this, the more
it galled them ; the sharper grew the
nettle's point. Their only chance of
ridding themselves of his hateful presence
lay in the hope that some discovery might
be made respecting him which would
compel him voluntarily to quit the isle.

They questioned the captain of the
White Dove,

How is it," they asked, '* that your
ship is engaged only in carrying out the
wishes of the hunchback ? "

For at no time had the captain of the
White Dove endeavoured to trade on his
own account with the islanders. Its visits
were regular, and it never came without
bringing a number of packages and cases
for Ran .

"It is easily answered," said the captain.

" The hunchback is the owner of
my ship."

Is he a master it is creditable to
serve ?'*

Decidedly he is. I know nothing
against him. Hark ye, masters. It
would be well if there were more in the
world like him."

You would fill the earth with deformity,"
they exclaimed, in wonder.
'' Have you a daughter ? "

Three."

Would you allow such a man to marry
a child of yours ? "

Heaven forbid ! But that does not
prevent me from pitying him for his misfortune,
nor from doing justice to him.
Take a lesson from my book, masters.
You are no more perfect than other men."

You are warm in your defence. What
binds you so closely to the hunchback ? "

First, self-interest. Second, he is
good to the poor."

In what way ? "

In this. There is never a day upon
which I bid farewell that he does not place

in my hand a packet of gold, saying, ' Use
this for the unfortunate ;' and would you
believe — no, perhaps you would not — that
he never asks for an account ? Are my
reasons sufficient ? '*

Yes," they answered, and were inclined
to waver ; but only for a short time.
Their prejudice against Ran was too
strong to be blown away by the words of
a man who confessed he served his master
from motives of self-interest.

The captain of the White Dove reported
this conversation to Eanf. The hunchback
smiled.

They are right in their way," he said,
and I in mine ; but all roads are not alike.
One day it may be otherwise between them
and me."

Thus matters went on until within a few-weeks
of Mauvais's return to the Silver Isle.

At this time a circumstance was brought
to the knowledge of the islanders which
caused them to assemble and determine
upon a course of action with respect to the
hunchback.

Not even to the Sylvesterss was it known

that Bertha was free of the hunchback's
house, and was in the habit of visiting it.
The discovery was led up to by a curious-longer
who had long been tormented by
a desire to obtain a glimpse of the mysterious
residence. He selected a dark night
for his purpose, and as he was reconnoitring,
endeavouring to find a means of ingress
to the grounds, he was startled by the
appearance of a woman evidently familiar
with the place. He followed her stealthily,
and made his way into the garden. The
windows of the house were lighted up,
and after a little while he saw a shadow
not to be mistaken — the shadow of Ran .
Carefully concealing himself, he waited
and watched, and presently his patience
was rewarded by the appearance of Ran
and the woman he had followed at one of
the windows.

Here, in truth, was a strange discovery.
The intruder was a young man, unacquainted
with Bertha, and he could not seethe
woman's face, but the circumstance of
any woman being seen in such a place was
sufficient to disturb him. It was a matter

that should not be kept secret, and he
resolved to make it known on the following
day. He did not intend, however, to
depart from the grounds, without an
endeavour to see something of them. He
moved about cautiously, and coming
suddenly upon a marble statue, which fora
moment he believed to be a spectre, he
uttered a loud cry of alarm. It was heard
within the house, and the next moment
Ran, accompanied by Bertha, came from
the house to ascertain the cause of the
alarm. The man, fearful for his life,
crouched and held his breath, and by good
fortune escaped detection. Ran held in
his hand a lighted torch, which he raised
above his head ; he walked in almost every
direction but the one in which the intruder
lay concealed ; Bertha kept close to the
hunchback's side.

"I see nothing," said Ran; "but the
voice I heard was human."

'' There are spirits," whispered Bertha.

'' They do not speak," said Ran. '* You
seem afraid."

I am frightened of shadows."

We Avill go in, then. Do not tremble ;
there is nothing to fear." And together
they re-entered the house.

The man breathed more freely, and the
fear of detection gone, he determined not
to depart until he had to some extent
satisfied his curiosity. It was not possible
to obtain a satisfactory view until there
was a light in the sky; he would wait;
the moon would rise in an hour.

Gradually the light crept over the
grounds, and the man was filled with
wonder at the beauty by which he was
surrounded. The loveliest flowers were
blooming, fountains were playing, and
marble statues, partly concealed by the
foliage, were strangely touched by the
moon's light.

No wonder I thought it was a living
form," he muttered.

His idle curiosity grew into a fever.
This foretaste of wonders filled him with
a burning desire for further discovery.
He approached closer to the house, forgetting
that the moon was full upon him.
Suddenly the door opened, and Ran

appeared on the threshold. The man
stood still as stone as the hunchback
slowly approached him.

Your business ? '* demanded the
hunchback in a low tone.

The man was too terrified to reply.

"Your business?" cried Ran again,
and, no answer being given, stepped
swiftly into the house, and reappeared,
holding by the collar a dog quite three
feet in height, and of a breed strange to
the Silver Isle.

** I have but to move my finger," said
Ran, " and you would be torn to pieces.
Answer quickly. Are you alone ? "

'' Yes."

'' Your business, then ? " for the third
time demanded Ran.

I have none."

What brought you here ? "

Curiosity."

Is it satisfied ? "

Quite. Once I get safe out of this
place, you may depend I shall never set
foot in it again."

I warn you to keep your word. I

will show you an easy way out of my
grounds. Walk before me."

The man was about to obey, when Ran
noticed a sudden light in his eyes, which
were directed towards the portal. Turning,
to ascertain what had caused this flash of
newly-awakened intelligence, Ran saw
that Bertha was standing on the threshold.
A peculiar smile crossed the hunchback's
lips as he looked again at the intruder.

How long have you been in my
grounds ? "

For two or three hours."

Ah ! You were here before the moon
rose, when I came out with a lighted
torch in my hand ? "

I was."

And the woman who stands there
was by my side."

Yes."

*' How did you gain admittance here."

1 followed the woman."

'' It was a manly action. You seemed
surprised to see her here."

My looks expressed my thought."

Perhaps you would like to speak to her."

^' I have no wish."

n sere you sent here ? "

*'No."

*' It was idle curiosity that brought
you."

'eyes."

You are singularly fascinated by the
woman there. What attracts you in
her ? "

She is dressed strangely."

"But with taste ; admit that."

*' If you wish me to admit it, I do
so.

And having stolen here from idle
curiosity, you have made a discovery."

"Yes."

'' Does any person besides ourselves
know of your intrusion here to-night ? "

No one."

The hunchback's eyes searched his soul.
You speak the truth. Do you not seethe
peril in which you stand ? You have
made a discovery which you intend to use
to my prejudice. Do not attempt to deny
it."

** I do not deny it ; as for its being to

your prejudice, that is as it may turnout."


Exactly. But the juryare channelled,
the judge is sitting. It has been so for years.
Nay, the very verdict — ' Guilty ! ' — is on
their tongue, no evidence being required.
Of what good action could a hunchback be
capable? You are in peril, I say."

I am no longer afraid," said the man,
who was not really a coward. " We are
man and man."

You do me the justice to believe that I
would not use the strength of this animal
against you ? You are truly gracious.
We are, as you say, man and man — and I
thank you again for putting me on a level
with yourself. But in the inference you
draw, you would find yourself grievously
in error. I have the strength of four
such men as you. I could kill you where
you stand, and none would be the
wiser."

With a sudden movement, the hunchback
grasped the man's body, so that he
could not move a limb, and raised him
high above his Jiead; as suddenly he

VOL. III. F

released the man, and set him safely
down.

I give you your life, without conditions.
Use your discovery. Now, walk before
me, without another word, and quit my
place."

CHAPTER IV.

EANF APPEARS Before HIS JUDGES.

When the interloper was clear of Ran's
house, he felt as if he had escaped from
prison, but once beyond the Valley of Lilies
and out of immediate danger, the enchantment
returned, and it seemed to him that
he must have had a glimpse of the domain
of a magician. At the same time he was
animated by a feeling of resentment
towards E^anf. He glowed with indignation
at the affront to which Ran had subjected
him, not thinking that he had offered
sufficient cause for it. It was in a tone of
scornful defiance that Eanf had said, " Use
your discovery." He was a young man,
eager for revenge, and not being cast in
too generous a mould, he used it to Ran's
disadvantage. He did not make it public.
He sought advice from a high authority
in the isle, who, upon hearing the strange

E 2

story, enjoined upon him the advisability
of not babbling about it.

It affects the well-being of the community'
said the elder, " and until the
truth is ascertained, must not be too freely
discussed."

The truth is as I have spoken."

There is no reason to distrust you, but
your senses may have been deceived. You
say you do not know the woman you saw
with Ran."

." I did not recognize her; her face was
not distinctly visible."

She must be a woman of the isle."

"Yes — if she is mortal."

His interlocutor smiled, having no belief
in the supernatural.

It shall be inquired into. In the meantime,
be discreet."

The matter was confided to six of the
elders, who, in their deliberations, found
themselves ever at a loss when the subject
of the woman was introduced.

It was not possible," they said, '' that,
unknown to them, Ran could have brought
a female into the isle."

E-anf was intimate with only three
women among them — the Sylvesterss and
Evangeline. In their perplexity they sent
for Matthew Sylvester. He listened to the
story in silence.

'' Your suspicion," he said, " points to
one of the members of my household ; but
to my certain knowledge not one was
absent from our home on the night of the
adventure."

This added to the complication, and
they determined that the hunchback
should be called upon for an explanation.
A summons was prepared in the following
terms :

To him known as Ran :

It has come to our knowledge that
you are harbouring in your house a woman
of the Silver Isle. In this, unless our
informant is labouring under a delusion,
the honour of the isle is concerned. You
are amenable to our laws, which we shall
not permit to be violated, and we call
upon you to appear before us, and render
a clear account of yourself. If you refuse,
we shall know what course to take."

To this was appended the day and hour
on which Ran was expected to appear,
and the signatures of the elders.

Who was to denver the summons ? It
was necessary that Ran should receive it
personally, so that he might not have the
excuse of ignorance to fall back upon.
In this difficulty Matthew Sylvester offered
himself.

I will deliver the summons, and will
bring back Ran's reply."

He sought the hunchback that very day,
and found him.

Ran read the summons thoughtfully,
and said, —

They are careful of their honour.
What course will they take if I refuse to
attend ? "

'' You will be banished from the isle."

'' That would please them ; but I will
not give them the opportunity. So long
as I keep within the law, they cannot
touch me. I acknowledge their authority,
and will obey the summons, on one condition.
It is a condition I have a right to
make."

Name it. If it is just, the will not
object."

It is just. The say that I am
harbouring a woman of the isle. If it
be so, the woman is to be judged as well
as I."

That is so. She will be judged."

It is right that she should be judged in
my company. Tell them to amend the
summons, so that it shall include all who
are guilty. Women are weak creatures,
and I may be better able to speak for this
one than she for herself."

Your condition will doubtless b^
complied with."

Make them my full submission in all
matters in which their honour is at stake.
They will, perhaps, also grant me a little
grace. Being on my trial, I have to prepare
my defence. The summons is somewhat
too sudden; let it be fixed for
two days later than the day named
herein."

'' There will be no difficulty," said
Matthew Sylvester, and prepared to depart
; but Eanf detained him.

'' You have not too liigli an opinion of
me, Matthew Sylvester."

*' I have never spoken against you, and
I have often thought of you with sincere
compassion."

*' I thank you. In the earlier years of
my life I suffered much from the injustice
of men. I am not above advancing a claim
to your compassion ; but only to you and
yours would I make such admission. It
has often brought balm to my soul to
think that in one house within this isle
I was not regarded as an accursed
thing."

You have not been so regarded in my
household. There are those there who
love you."

You do not speak for yourself ? "

'' No ; when I have been drawn towards
you, something has held me back. Frankly,
I have had my doubts of you."

"And have them?"

And have them."

I had no need to ask the question ; I
can read men fairly well. That you have
doubts, and that at the present time they

are strengthen ed, is proved by your reticence
with respect to the matter of this
summons. Personally, you have not asked
me a single question with respect to the
charge — not a light one — which is now
brought against me."

"I came to perform a duty," replied
Matthew, '' not to pry into another man's
conscience."

That is well said. Yet, when we take
an interest in a man, we are not generally
careless of what affects him. You can
read between the lines, and can understand
that I am anxious for your goodwill."


Matthew was silent.

Matthew Sylvester," continued the
hunchback, after a pause, " years ago you
and I had a conversation upon a subject
near to your heart."

'' I remember ; it related to my son's
wife, Margaret, and the sister who was torn
from her."

Her sister Clarice."

"Yes."

'' There is a secret concerning that sister

wliicli you and I share ; it lias been safe in
my keeping."

And in mine."

Events are taking a strange course.
Within these hundred hours I have traced
in the air the writing of fate. You are
about to quit your house."

*' It has been mine by courtesy only.
Its master has arrived, to take possession
of his own. Another house is now being
built for us."

I know. You have never seen this
Mauvais ? "

'' Never."

He is not alone. There comes with
him a friend, a sculptor, Harold by name,
whom also you have never seen ? "

Not to my knowledge."

Yet the lines of his life and of those
lives most dear to you have crossed, and
may cross again. If this latter happen, I
shall be no passive spectator, and what
action I may take will be in the interests
of those you love. There was a time when
you were inclined to be friendly towards
me."

I am still so inclined ; but you have
made such a desire most difficult of accomplishment."


"It is my way, and men must take meas
I am."

'' I perceive your drift, and I will endeavour
to satisfy you. Is the charge in
this summons true ? "

To what extent ? "

That there lives in your house a woman
of the Silver Isle?"

It is true. And you and others near
to you shall judge from evidence, not from
hearsay, how far I have stained the honour
of the isle. I make, therefore, still another
stipulation which you will convey to those
who sent you to me. I ask that you and
your children, Paul and Margaret Sylvester,
shall be present at the examination. You
will come ? "

Yes, if we are allowed."

'' I shall insist upon it. You can then
be witnesses of my disgrace."

Matthew Sylvester related to the
islanders the particulars of his interview
with the hunchback, and all that the accused

man demanded was granted without
demur.

At the appointed time there were assembled
in the court-house twelve magistrates
of the Silver Isle, prepared to hear
the explanation E,anf had to give. There
were also present the three elder members
of the Sylvester family whom B^anf stipulated
should be present, the man who had
given the information against the hunchback,
and Harold, who came straight from
the ship lying at anchor in the bay. On
this day the court was closed to the public,
and two officers standing at the door
allowed only those to enter to whom
permission had been given. As Harold
entered a delicate perfume spread itself
through the hall; he was exquisitely dressed
and gloved, and with a purposed affectation
gave himself the airs of a dandy. He was
really curious regarding the proceedings
about to take place, but the impression he
conveyed was that he had come to an entertainment
which had been prepared for
his amusement, and that he was graciously
willing, in an idle way, to be amused.

When lie entered Margaret Sylvester
was talking to Matthew, and their backs
towards him. He bowed to the court, and
taking the seat allotted to him, arranged
himself upon it with an easy grace. This
done, he allowed his eyes to wander from
face to face, until they rested on the face
of Margaret Sylvester. '' By Heaven ! "
he thought, but it was a discovery of so
much interest that his lips formed the unspoken
words ; " the woman with the voice
of the nightingale ! " As the thought
crossed his mind, Margaret's eyes met
his, and were held spell-bound. Her face
grew white, and her bosom rose and fell.
*' Harold," thought the sculptor, still
silently addressing himself, " the Silver
Isle promises to be prolific of sensation.
There is a future before you." Matthew
Sylvester, observing Margaret's agitation,
stepped to the president's side, and whispered
a few words to him.

Friends," said the president aloud,
with a motion of his hand towards
Harold, 'this gentleman is a friend
of Mauvais, who will presently take up

his residence among us. His name is
Harold."

Harold rose and bowed with infinite
grace, murmuring, —

Very much at your service. I trust we
shall be friends."

They all bent their heads, with the exception
of Margaret, who, at the sound of
his voice, closed her eyes, like one in a
dream.

'' We expected Mauvais," said the president.


"He desired me," said Harold, in his
softest tones, '' to present his regrets that
he is unable to attend. He suffers frightfully
whenever the slightest demand for
exertion is made upon him. He comes
of an old family ; his complaints, his
vices, his virtues are hereditary, and consequently
he is scarcely accountable for
them. New men do not understand that
such as Mauvais are made of finer stuff"
than they. I speak to men of sense
who will appreciate the truth of what I
say." What his hearers did appreciate
was the tone of exquisite polish in which

he spoke. " Mauvais' continued Harold,
regrets his absence the more because it
prevents him from witnessing a scene so
remarkable as this. It is years since he
saw his friend the hunchback, and it would
have been a happiness to him could he
have personally attended, and testified to
the virtues of a creature so interesting.
Should it be the hunchback's fate to fall
under your displeasure, it will grieve
Mauvais sorely. But doubtless it will
be my good fortune to describe to my
friend how completely the stranger
whom, for his sake, you welcomed to
your isle, has cleared himself of any
charge you may bring against him. He
has but his virtues to recommend him.
Little enough; but man is frail, and we
must not bear too hard on imperfection.
I myself have erred " — his eyes rested hereon
Margaret's face — " and am disposed to
be lenient."

We accept you as Mauvais' s representative,"
said the president, coldly.
You shall see that we know how to
dispense justice."

Who can doubt it ? " murmured
Harold, sinking languidly into his seat as
the hunchback entered the court.

Ran's entrance was opportune ; it was
as though he had timed this dialogue to
the moment. He was accompanied by a
woman, muffled from head to foot in a
scarlet cloak, the hood of which covered
her head, and concealed her features. All
eyes were turned to her, but she stood,
evidently in accordance with instructions,
by Ran's side, with her head inclined to
the ground. Harold was the only person
in whose eager gaze there was not something
of pain. '' Dramatic," he murmured ;
'Were dramatic. A touch of art."

For full a minute Ran and Harold gazed
steadily at each other. Harold's face
expressed amusement; Ran's contempt.

Decidedly," thought Harold, " the
hunchback is not of a forgiving nature.
He harbours resentment, and has grown
even more stunted and ill-favoured."

At this point a disturbance occurred,
which claimed attention. One of the
officers of the court informed the president

that a man demanded admittance, and
would not be denied.

What authority has he for intrusion ? "
asked the president.

'' This," replied the officer, presenting a
paper to the court.

It proved to be a letter from Ran,
requesting the bearer's presence in a case
reflecting upon the honour of his family.
The letter was addressed to Daniel Christ's,
a name well known and once honoured in
the Silver Isle. At the utterance of this
name by the president, the draped figure
at Ran's side shuddered, but Kans s strong*
hand upon her shoulder restrained any
further expression of emotion.

Is this your writing ? " asked the
president of Ran, holding out the letter.

It is," replied Ran.

Is Daniel Christof s presence necessary
for your vindication ? "

I deem it both just and necessary that
he should be witness of these proceedings."

Admit him," said the president to the
officer.

There entered an old man, wild-looking

YOL. III. G

and laggard, bent down by age and
suffering. His form was spare, his hands
long and thin, and in his blue eyes dwelt
a wandering look which never for longer
than a moment rested upon any one
object.

"My crooked friend," thought Harold,
as he contemplated the grouping, '' has an
eye for effect. This composition would do
credit to an artist."

*' Daniel Christof," said the president,
with much pity in his voice, " you are hereby
no wish of those who loved and honoured
you. We, who have ever sympathized with
your deep misfortunes, would have left
you in your solitude to work out your
peace with Heaven. But your presence is
demanded bv one who stands before us for
justice."

Daniel Christof raised his hands with
a trembling motion, indicating that he
heard and understood ; but he uttered no
word.

'' The court now channelled," said
the president, addressing Eanf, " has full
authority over the affairs of the isle. We

received you among us in good faith, and
gave you welcome. Such welcome, although
it is not imbued with the spirit we would
desire — a fault not ours — will not be withdrawn,
if it is made apparent to us that
you have not transgressed our laws. Indeed,
it cannot be withdrawn without full
and ample cause. We would mete out to
you even a larger toleration than we would
accord to each other. But you stand
within our jurisdiction, and it is in our
power to banish you from the isle, being
a stranger living in our land by courtesy,
should it be proved that you have brought'
disgrace and dishonour upon one of our
people. You may recognize the justice of
my words."

*' They are words," said Ran, '^ I myself
should use, were I in your place and you
in mine."

*' If that is an indication of the spirit in
which you meet us, we shall not underrate
its value in the task before us. It happens,
fortunately or otherwise, that at this juncture
the two men who are responsible for
your presence on the Silver Isle, have come

G 2

among lis, and one is present here to-day.
It may be that he will use his influence on
your behalf."

I do not need it," said Ran, with a
quiet scorn. " I can plead my own cause.
Let your accusation be plain and to the
point, as my answer shall be. I shall
listen with patience, however hard your
words and suspicions. In return, I shall
expect that you will listen with patience to
what I shall have to say."

"You shall have no reason to complain.
Listen now to the statement which has
occasioned these proceedings."

Thereupon the president gave a minute
and clear account of the visit of the young
islander to the hunchback's grounds, and
of his experiences during the night of his
visit. From time to time Ran nodded
his head in confirmation of the truth of
the relation, and when it was finished,
said, —

There is nothing to dispute ; the
statement is correct, so far as it is in my
power to vouch for it, and the omission
of one trifling detail does not affect it

in my estimation, although it may in
yours."

Supply the omission," said the president,
" before you answer the charge.
Trifling as it is, it may be of importance."

As you will ; although I repeat that in
strict justice it should not affect your decision.
When I confronted the man who
had unwarrantably stolen into my grounds,
and could not obtain from him a satisfactory
answer to my question as to what brought
him there, I called to my side a dog which,
with other animals and birds, I have imported.
I perceive that the man who*
gives evidence against me calls this dog a
savage beast ; whereas in fact he is but a
dog, a singularly gentle creature, as harmless
as an infant when not molested. He
has, it is true, a vice — the vice of faithfulness
; he would not patiently see his master
hurt, and one word from me is sufficient
to rouse in him a fury more powerful
than mortal's. During our interview my
faithful servant stood quietly by my side,
yet I had but to whisper the word, and the
man's life would not have been worth a

moment's purchase. The word was not
spoken, and your brave islander departed
in safety. There is something more. I
myself have more than an ordinary man's
strength ; I gave my ill-wisher a proof of
this, being careful not to hurt so tender a
being. I knew that no person on the isle
was acquainted with his mission ; he told
me as much, and I read the truth in his
face. Therefore I could have killed him,
and none, even if they suspected, could
have brought the crime home to me ; for
I am wary when occasion demands, and,
in cunning, the equal of straighter men.
It might occur to some of you that, had I
anything to conceal which I was fearful of
being discovered, I, a suspected, morose
being, ungainly, unfriendly, hating and
hated, whose life was linked to yours by no
possible link of sympathy, who had lived
among you shunned and avoided, who
never by look or word courted your favour,
who was, indeed, as disdainful of you as
you were of him, who offended you by
refusing to join in your religious observances,
who would not eat with you or

drink with you, who in the regulation of
his life acknowledged no law but his own
it might, I say, occur to some of you
that, had I anything to fear which this
one man could bring to light, I would have
swept him from this world into the next
without remorse, without pity. But I had
no such prompting; angered as I was, I
spared his life, and allowed him to depart
in absolute safety. It is a small detail,
but I scorn to accept it in my favour. I
stand upon my right, and no small side-issues
shall help to prove my guilt or
innocence. I know where you are weak;
and where you are strong. I know
how cruel and kind, how merciless
and merciful, how pitiless and just you
are, and I am content that you shall be
my judges on the broad lines of right and
wrong."

** This crooked man," thought Harold,
*' has proved himself an artist, perfect in
colour and composition. The scarlet cloak
on that woman by his side is most effective ;
he must have studied all the accessories of
his picture. He proves himself now to bea

special pleader of whom civilized courts
mig be proud. What next ? "

Upon the others Ran's unstudied address
had a powerful effect. It almost seemed
as though he were the judge, and they the
persons who were to be judged.

CHAPTER Y.

THE ACQUITTAL.

We admit the fairness of your correction,"
said the president, " and also of
your rebuke. When we discover that we
have wronged you, we shall make acknowledgment
of the wrong'

'' I expect no less," said Ran ; '' there
are those present whose good opinion I
desire."

Not mine, surely," thought Harold.
He takes high ground, this twisted
mortal."

'proceed now to your defence," said
the president.

Nay," said the hunchback, '' it is first
for you to state of what I am accused."

It is stated on the summons. You are
accused of harbouring a woman of the
isle."

*' To the hurt of the honour of the isle,
unless I mistake."

It is so."

Does not my form answer you ? Look
well upon me. Is it likely that I could
ever win a woman's love ? "

He can read the minds of men'
thought Harold. " A woman's love ! Hard
to gain. But we live in an age of
miracles."

That is not the question," said the
president ; '' strange tales are told, and
strange ideas held by many concerning
you, although you may rest assured that
we, your judges, place but little value
upon idle rumour."

I am glad to know it. If it be proved
that I, with no unworthy intent, have
given shelter to the unfortunate, how shall
I stand in your eyes ? "

Acquitted, and entitled to our gratitude.
The laws of humanity, administered
with a pure intent, are sacred."

''So do I regard them; and a man's
ungraceful shape and uncouth manners
should not tell against him. Justice is

blind ; she sees not whether a man be rich
or poor, crooked or straight. Despite your
assurances, I am impelled by my experiences
to warn you to be careful that you are
not led away by the prejudice which exists
against me. I have heard some of the
tales and ideas you speak of, and have
laughed at them, wondering, too, that they
should have gained a hold upon the men of
the Silver Isle, who pride themselves upon
their common sense and reason. But it
proves you human — and fallible. The
woman of the isle whom I am accused of
harbouring, to her dishonour, stands by my
side. Do not forget that in this accusation
you are flinging a shameful stone upon
one of yourselves ; if it strike her it wounds
her not, for it touches not her honour ; it
recoils upon those who accuse her. If
upon this isle there is a home despoiled
by me, the particulars of the deed could
scarcely be hidden from you. Know you
of a man who mourns the loss of wife or
daughter, and cries to you for justice on
me, the wronger ? "

We know of no such man."

*^ How vague, then, is the charge you
bring against me ! You make me a
witness against myself. If I am guilty, I
must bring my own guilt to light. You
shall not say of me that I thwart the
course of justice."

With his own hand he removed the
scarlet cloak and hood from the woman at
his side, and Bertha stood revealed. They
gazed at her in surprise, and then at
Daniel Christof in compassion ; but of them
all he was the one man among them who
was unmoved. His eyes rested on his
daughter's face without a sign of love or
recognition. She met his gaze mournfully,
but did not move towards him. She was
strangely and beautifully dressed in laces,
silks, and jewels of great value. Bracelets
of pearls were on her arms, and a diamond
cross at her neck. None of these
ornaments were new ; they all bore upon
them the stamp of an old fashion. The
only motion she made was to raise the
cross to her lips, and keep it there for a
little while in one long clinging kiss.

Harold scrutinized her with curiosity.

A fair woman," lie thought; ^' beautiful
once, beautiful now, and most wonderfully
attired. The court of a king could show
nothing finer. That expression of sorrow
in her eyes is native to her ; she has seen
trouble." Harold was puzzled and interested.
For a moment an idea had
occurred to him that the woman might
be Evangeline, but a glance dispelled the
mingled dread and hope. He continued
his musings : " Ran has come well prepared.
His plot is a succession of surprises.
Already has he turned the tables upon his
judges. Those jewels and laces are his.*
How did he obtain possession of them ?
Is there a fairy palace in the Silver
Isle?"

'' Here," saidRanf, *sis the woman lam
said to have wronged. Whom have I
robbed ? A father of his child ? Let him
take her to his breast."

As he spoke these words he looked
straight into the face of Daniel Christof,
and advanced a step towards him.

Daniel Christof rose slowly from his
seat.

*' I have no child," he said, in a cold,
passionless voice.

This woman's name," said Ran, *' is
Bertha Christof."

** Bertha Christof is dead," said Daniel
Christof, in the same metallic tone.

It is false ! " retorted Ran ; '' she lives,
and stands before you."

*^ It matters not. I have no child."

'* Had such a crime as this," said Bans,
addressing the elders, " been laid at my
door — had an innocent being of my own
blood, to whom I owed a duty of love and
gentle guidance, been by me thrust from
her home, and I was called upon to answer
the desertion — I should have humbled myself
before you, and without one word in
self-defence have called upon you to pass
judgment upon me. You are welcome to
entertain what harsh thoughts you please
against me ; I can bear them. But when
you point the finger of shame at an innocent
being who cannot defend herself,
whose sensitive soul shrinks at an unkind
word, you proclaim yourselves, unless you
make full atonement, devoid of chivalry,

religion, and grace. Such a crime as lies
upon that old man's soul lies not upon
mine, and I am not called upon to answer
it. My crime is that I have held out the
hand of friendship, that I have given the
word of sympathy, to a forsaken woman,
whose kith and kin would have left her to
starve'

'' That is not true," said the president,
sternly ; '* no living creature need starve
in this land of plenty. The guiltiest can
obtain food for the asking."

Pardon me," retorted Ran , with a fine
irony, '' I forgot myself. I thought for a'
moment that other food than bread was
needed for life and reason; that to a
delicately nurtured woman some mark of
sympathy, some word of gentleness, some
look of kindness, were a necessity of her
being — the want of which can only be
supplied by a merciful dispensation which
deprives her of her wits. That is the
good fortune which has overtaken Bertha
Christof ; she is not full-witted, and has
but one hope in this world or the next —
a hope that lies in the grave of a child.
To whom, then, is she responsible, and to

whom am I ? If she is no man's daughter,
I have wronged no man, even were I guilty
of a wrong, which I am not. In years
gone by you passed judgment upon this
woman. Question now your hearts as to
the justice of the punishment you meted
out to her."

'' We have our laws," said the president ;
the woman sinned."

She did not sin ; she erred, being a
weak, trusting woman, and in this respect
your laws are cruel and merciless. Before
the man whose child she is lay a straight
path of merciful duty. Her mother, as
Daniel Christof knows — you see now why
I called him here to-day, although the whole
of my purpose is not yet disclosed — was
yielding, gentle, and timorous."

We would have you remember," interrupted
the president, in a gentle tone,
that the man you summoned here from
his life of solitude has already suffered
much."

*' And I would have you remember that
the woman you summoned here from her
lonely life has suffered a martyrdom. My

pity is for the weak, not for the strong ;
for the innocent, not for the guilty.
Bertha's mother was a woman whose
plastic mind was ready to receive, without
question, the law of right and wrong
from the lips of those she loved. That
she had neither wisdom nor strength was
Nature's doing. She died young, but not
before she had transmitted her weakest
qualities to a daughter, whose heart and
mind are not of the Spartan order. As
well blame me for my shape as Bertha
Chris tof for faith and tenderness. You
have done the one, avoid the other in justice.
This faith and this tenderness were
sufficient to destroy the happiness of her life.
Was balm poured upon her wounds ? Was
one pitiful hand held out to her ? No ; those
who should have comforted her stricken
soul heaped fire upon her, and added
shame to shame. You cast her out from
among you; her father drove her from
her home. And this was justice ! You
pray in your churches that you shall not
be led into temptation, and you strike with
a merciless hand the woman who was so

VOL. ]I]. H

innocently led, and was not endowed with
strength to resist. By accident I met lier.
When ? Years ago, at midnight. Where ?
In the great market-place of the isle in
which the statue of Evangeline is set up.
A strange time and a strange place for
such a meeting, seeing what it has led to."

He paused and looked first at Margaret
Sylvester and then at Harold. His action
had the effect of drawing the attention of
Margaret and Harold, each upon the other ;
it was as if he were the link between the
two, to draw them together, or keep them
apart.

'decidedly," thought Harold, "the
hunchback is a clever comedian, and has
scenes in the background from which,
when the time suits him, he will draw the
curtain. Does he intend that I shall play
an active part in his comedy ? "

It may be a satisfaction to you," said
the president to Ran, " to be informed
that we are disposed to believe you speak
the truth ; we do not take into account
your manner of expressing it, nor the
bearing you adopt towards ourselves. We

accept it as natural in you. But no tiling
must be concealed from us."

'' You ask too much," said Ran, with a
scornful smile ; " I do not intend to bare
my heart to you. What is necessary in
this inquiry shall be told ; nothing more.
It is barely possible that there are points
touching the present scene, but not immediately
connected with it, nor of consequence
in its clear explanation, which affect
others present besides myself. Therefore
I must be guarded, and intend to be.
Be assured of this ; whatever I may say,
however I may act, I shall not stray from
the path of right and justice."

You had," said the president, '' a purpose
in view when you went to the marketplace
at midnight, years ago as you say,
and there by accident first met Bertha
Christ's''

A definite pm-pose," replied the hunchback
; " I went to examine closely the
statue of Evangeline there set up. To what
end I do not consider myself at liberty to
explain. I chose the hour of midnight so
that I might be undisturbed. I call upon

H 2

Matthew Sylvester, in confirmation of my
statement. He will remember a certain
conversation which took place between us
at the foot of the mountain. It was of his
own seeking. The message sent to me by
one of my white doves ran in this wise :
Grandfather Matthew wishes to see the
master of the mountain. He will be at its
foot an hour before sunrise tomorrow.' I
ask him if he remembers it."

''I remember the occasion," said Matthew
Sylvester, '' and the message ; the words,
no doubt are correct."

'you remember, too, the conversation ? "
''I do."

Bearing in mind that I had never cast
more than a casual glance at the statue of
Evangeline, can you trace from our conversation
any motive I may have had for a
closer inspection ? ' '

It appears to me reasonable that you
had such a motive."

I thank you. Answer me now this
question. Would you consent that in this
assembly I should relate circumstantially
the purport of our conversation ? "

Matthew Sylvester glanced apprehensively
at Margaret, and she, magnetized
into fear, caught his hand with a convulsive
movement.

Calm yourself, Margaret," he said ;
you shall know all when we are private ;
I have done wrong in concealing it from
you so long."

I leave the disclosure to your own
discretion," said Ran; "what was agreed
upon between us was for the purpose of
keeping sorrow from an innocent heart-but
I am on my trial, and you have not
answered my question. Do you consent
that I shall relate here the purport of our
conversation ? "

"I do not consent."

Therefore my lips are sealed, and wisely
sealed, for a more fitting time will come.
I went, then, to the market-place and met
Bertha Christof. Cut off from human
companionship and sympathy, it was a
habit of hers to seek companionship and
sympathy from an image of marble.
Even the cold stone was kinder to her
than those among whom she had been

reared, for she talked to it, and confided
her griefs to the inanimate ear, and
believed that the marble lips uttered words
of love to ber bruised heart. I did not
undeceive her — not I ; it was a sweet and
comforting delusion, and I allowed her
to rest in it. We contracted a friendship
that night, which has lasted till to-day,
wbicb will last till we draw our last breath.
She would have fled from me bad I been
like other men, but my hump served me a
good turn for once. Everything has its
use. She paid me a doubtful compliment.
You are not a man,' she said, ' for you
do not speak as others do.' And yet I
spoke no word to her that did not express
sympathy. She looked upon it as strange
that there were people in this isle who
abhorred me (her own words), and that I
was the only one who had given her a kind
word since her baby died. She asked me
so many questions, without giving me
time to answer them, and disclosed to me
so much that was sorrowful, that I was
drawn irresistibly to her. She took me to
the grave of her baby, and I left her

J

kneeling by it, and kissing tile earth, and
whispering to her child. We met again,
and then she confided to me her story. It
was pitiful ! pitiful ! If my heart was ever
inclined to you, the story I heard was
sufficient to draw me back. You have
your laws, and you measured out justice to
this poor woman because she had sinned
in error. You forgot that mercy is the
divinest quality of earthly justice ! Would
you believe that the ignorant child found
fault with your priests, who, telling her
in words that God is love, strove to prove
to her by their action, that He is hate !
As for her father, let him not hope that
by fasting and praying and isolation he
can escape Divine condemnation for his
guilt ! Let him listen now to what his
daughter said to me, a stranger, out of the
deep tribulation of her suffering soul. She
had a fantastic idea that she and the
marble image of Evangeline would know
each other better in the spirit-land. Then
she would have her baby in her arms
again, she said, in the fulness of her love
and hope. And when in that land her

father should say to her, ' Come to me,
my daughter ; all is forgiven ! ' she might
reply, ' Had you been merciful to me, my
baby might have lived, and I should not have
been condemned to wander night after night
and day after day from valley to valley, from
field to field, with a bleeding heart, which one
kind word from you would have relieved ! '
Let him think of those words, when from
this court he goes back to his solitude.
What happened between Bertha Christof and
myself after that ? The friendship we contracted
was strengthened by time, and we
met again and again. It is my happiness to
know that I was a solace to her, and that in
all likelihood I prevented her from falling
into utter despair. I address you as your
equal, being at least that. I hold land in
your isle,. and have a right to live upon it
so long as it pleases me. I have done
nothing to entitle you to deprive me of
my right. If you desire a farther reason
for the intimacy between me and the
woman upon whom you would cast a
mantle of shame, I can supply it. Within
my freehold lies the only spot of earth

this woman loves, the only memory upon
which she feeds her soul. The grave of
her child is there, unconsecrated by priests,
consecrated by a mother's love. That
grave is her hope, her chm^ch, her refuge,
her religion ! The innocent dust that lies
within the earth is witness of her purity.
And for myself," said the hunchback, with
so much feeling that there was sweetness
in his voice, " there lives upon the isle one
whom I love so dearly that no allurement
or temptation could woo me to a degrading
act. Bertha Christof stands before you,-
a wronged and sinless woman, pure as
when I first met her. She is my sister —
and to me the preservation of her honouris
a sacred trust. Do you know the signs
of innocence ? Look in her face, and
behold them ! "

His hearers were much moved and
wholly convinced, and the president of the
court was about to speak in terms of
acquittal of the charge which had been
brought against him, when Ran by a
motion restrained him.

'' There sits a man," he said, pointing to

Daniel Cliristof, " with blood upon his soul.
When you regard the guilty with compassion,
and the innocent with aversion,
as you have done this day, by what sophistry
can you justify yourselves ? "

Daniel Cliristof, with trembling steps,
advanced in the direction of his daughter.

Bertha ! " he cried, holding out his
hands towards her.

Ran fell back.

Bertha ! " again cried the old man ;
come to me ! Forgive me ! "

But she turned from him, and stepping
to the hunchback's side, took his hand in
hers, and firmly held it for protection.

Your father calls you," said Ran
gently.

'' I have no father," replied Bertha; "I
have only my child ! "

Daniel Cliristof looked around for pity
and support, but the faces of Ran 's judges
were averted from him. Without another
word, he staggered to the door, and passed
out of the hall.

For a few moments silence reigned.
Then the hunchback spoke again.

There is still something more. To a
woman I appeal. In the name of womanhood
I address her. Let her for the purposes
of justice suppose that one who was
precious to her — it might be a sister,
dearly loved, to whom she was a protector
was torn from her by treachery. Say
that she feared and fears, though long years
have passed, that a too confiding nature
lias been led to shame. She knows it not ;
the fate of that being, most dearly loved,
is hidden from her. But if she learnt the
bitter truth, and that sister were now to
appear before her, would she take her to
her arms, as in bygone days, and shed the
light of love upon the aching heart ?
Would she press the hapless one to her
breast, and whisper to her, ' End comfort
here ; take shelter here ; though all the
world condemn you, I will be true to you
till death ' ? "

Yes ! yes ! " cried Margaret Sylvester,
rising, in uncontrollable agitation, while
the eyes of all were fixed upon her in
wonder.

'' Here is one," said Eanf, 'falsely accused,

who lias been so betrayed. She has
been sorely wounded ! Man's bitter injustice
has driven her mad ; Heaven's
mercy only has sustained her fainting soul !
Pass you the verdict upon her. She will
accept no other."

Margaret Sylvester glided swiftly to
Bertha; she passed her arms about the
neck of the outcast, and whispered, "Find
comfort here ! Take shelter here ! "
Bertha's head sank low upon Margaret's
breast, her arms pressed Margaret close,
and her tears flowed freely.

The woman is judged," said Eanf
to the elders. " Pass judgment upon
me."

'' We ask your pardon," said the president,
as he and the others prepared to

descend from their seats.

*****

Five minutes later, and only Ran and
Harold remained in the court.

"You have acted grandly," said Harold.
'^ Had I not witnessed it with my own
eyes, I should never have believed it
possible."

I do not wonder. It is not easy to
make you believe."

No, it is not easy. The comedy was
well rehearsed. Who directed it ? "

Fate ; and sent you here to witness it."

Producing first a revolution in my
country to enable me to be present."

Nothing more likely, if one believes in
fate."

"You believe in it."

I am beginning to do so."

"As fate's prime minister, now, what is
to happen ? "

Retribution."

Really ! I shall be charmed to play
my part in it. I trust it will have as appropriate
an ending as the play I have
just seen. Mauvais will be rarely amused
at the description I shall give him of it."

I have no doubt. You are good — at
words. When does Mauvais land ? "

He hopes to do so in a very few days,
and looks forward, with delighted anticipation
to the renewal of an agreeable
acquaintanceship. He has a high regard
for you."

It is reciprocated."

How long it is since we met — you and
I ! I have languished for a sight of you,
wondering whether you were alive or dead,
and whether Nature had made amends to
you. Then there is another in whom I am
interested, and of whom I have often
thought."

You mean Evangeline."

Yes ; that is the name. She whom I
predicted would be hailed as the princess
of the Silver Isle."

You have not seen her ? "

It has not been my good fortune."

Eanf looked steadily at Harold, who
laughed in his face.

You appeared to be interested in Margaret
Sylvester — as though you and she
had met."

We may possibly have done so ; I have
met so many — and I am fond of dreaming.
And you know — or can guess, being able
to read me so well — that I cannot resist a
beautiful woman. So, you have been interested
in my poor statue of Evangeline,
which they honoured me by setting up in

the market-place. I admit it, you see ; it
is mine, though no one knows it but you
and I. Shall we keep the secret ? I
abhor adulation. What strikes you particularly
in it? The composition? You
yourself are a master of that, Ran ? Or
the face ? Frankness is a great fault of
mine. You see a likeness in the face,
perhaps. To whom ? "

'' You can name her."

Well, to humour you — Clarice ? "

"Yes, Clarice."

Between you and me, hunchback, the
fairest woman I have ever known. Will
you accompany me to the ship, to shake
hands with Mauvais ? No ? Perhaps it
is as well. Adieu — till our next meeting.
I must see that wonderful house of yours ;
I will take no denial."

CHAPTER YI.

THE OLD WOUND Reopened.

During the following few weeks no person
but Bertha saw or conversed with Ran.
It was understood throughout the Silver
Isle, although the details of the trial were
not made public, that a grave charge had
been brought against the hunchback, of
which he had completely cleared himself,
and his judges had been generous enough
to declare that in his answer to the charge
Ran had shown himself in an unexpectedly
noble light. The character of
these judges stood so high in the isle that
implicit faith was placed in this declaration,
the acceptance of which did much
to clear away the prejudice which had
existed against Ran, and many of the
islanders were anxious to make personal

o

acknowledgment of their error. The
hunchback, however, did not afford them
an opportunity ; with his usual disregard
of their opinion, in his favour or to his
hurt, he kept aloof from them.

The one person most anxious to see
and speak with him was Margaret
Sylvester. The trial had torn open the
old wound in her heart, and she felt that
she could never again know peace until she
had learnt all that it was in the power of
the hunchback to impart of the history and
fate of her beloved sister. In fulfilment
of his promise Matthew related to her
some portions of the conversation concerning
Clarice which took place years ago
between Eanf and himself ; in mercy to
her he omitted what it would most grieve
her to hear, and all that she knew was that
Clarice was living when they supposed
her to be dead. Bitterly did she reproach
herself for what, in her agony, she declared
was an act of desertion on her part. , It
was her duty to stop in the old land, and
never to give up her search for her dear
Clarice until she had found her or had been

VOL. HI. I

furnished with undoubted proof of her
unhappy end. Matthew in vain attempted
to console her, and was glad that he
had concealed from her the knowledge of
her dear sister's shame. But Margaret, in
the midst of her self-torturing, detected,
with her shrewd woman's wit, that something
was being hidden from her, and she
sent Bertha to Ran, with an imploring
appeal that he would see her, and tell her
all he knew of Clarice. She received this
message back :

Not yet. I must choose my time. It
will soon come, and then we will speak
together. Be silent and patient, and trust
in me."

It was possible to be silent, but not to
be patient ; and Margaret was now passing
through the most unhappy days of her life.
She felt that strange events were impending,
and that Ran, her friend and the
friend of Evangeline, held the threads in
his hands ; she could trust him, it is true,
but what could he know of the love, the
torture, that filled her heart ? She wanted
to tell him her story ; then he would pity

her, and conceal nothing from her. It was
an exquisite misery to her to know that
she was powerless, that she could do
nothing but waifs. Night after night she
dreamt of Clarice, and in her dreams
Harold, the handsome stranger who now
lived with Mauvais, almost invariably
found a place. If no one else could satisfy
her, why should she not go to him and
ascertain whether the strange idea which
passed through her mind when she and he
met lately in the narrow lane had any
foundation in fact, or whether the likeness-she
saw in his face to the face of one who
was connected with the saddest episode in
her life was merely accidental ? Engrossed
in the cares and duties of her new home,
she and hers bad been so occupied that she
had no opportunity of meeting him again ;
neither had she seen his friend Mauvais, in
whose house she had lived since her arrival
on the Silver Isle. She brooded upon her
misery until it was almost too great for her
to bear.

In the meantime Mauvais and Harold
were settled in the isle. They, also, had

I 2

been so much engaged that they had no
time to go about ; there was so much to do
in the house and grounds, so much to alter,
to suit Mauvais's fastidious tastes, that
they had had no time to " cultivate the
islanders," as they expressed it. Mauvais
had brought with him a great number of
cases containing such heirlooms, pictures,
and other belongings as he had been able
to save from the wreck of his fortune ;
the difficulty of arranging and placing
these about the house and grounds had
been increased by the circumstance that
when he asked for the assistance of
labourers on the isle he was informed that
the islanders could not spare time for any
but their own affairs. He had but three
servants with him, and it took a month todo
what might have been done in a week.
Harold and he resolved not to show themselves
to the islanders until the house was
in order.

The weeks had not passed without adventure
or discovery. Harold one night
was awakened by a tapping at his window ;
he rose and opened the window, and a

white pigeon flew into the room. It was
perfectly tame, and allowed him to handle it.

'* A carrier dove," said Harold; 'fit
messenger for Cupid. Is it by these
means that my twisted friend carries on-his
love affairs ? "

An idea seized him ; he wrote a message,
and tying it under the wing of the pigeon,
released it. He stood at the window,
watching its flight.

To the mountain of snow," he said, ashe
followed with his eyes the direction of
the bird. " Ran will get my message if
he be there."

The words he wrote were these :

'' Harold to Ran : In what spirit shall
we meet — if we meet again ? In the spirit
of friendship or enmity ? "

The following night the winged messenger
returned with the message :

'' Ran to Harold: We shall meet again.
I am your enemy till death."

Harold laughed in the solitude of his
chamber.

'' Ran is a bold man. Certainly he
cannot be accused of lack of courage. He

reckons, perhaps, on the sympathies of the
islanders, which assuredly are not with us.
They lack courtesy, I am afraid, these
simple folk. I noticed how, when Raff's
trial came to an end, they allowed me to
depart without offering me food or drink ;
and I was thirsting for wine. Hitherto,
Harold, your chief enemy has been yourself.
You have other enemies now. Well,
it will give a zest to life. Pretty bird," he
said to the dove, which he held in his hand,
'' there is blood upon your wing. Have I
been too rough with you ? It has never
yet been my way with beauty or innocence."
His eyes lighted here on the group of Ran
and Evangeline he had sculptured for
Mauvais, and which Mauvais, despite his
request, had set up in the grounds. '' A
fine piece of work, Harold. Tolerably
faithful as regards the hunchback, though
one would infer, from its contemplation,
that Ran had no soul. That is not true ;
the hunchback is something more than
flesh and blood; I will do him that justice.
Mauvais, I owe you what I may never be
able to repay for this insult — aye, and for

others which my too careless spirit allowed
to pass by unheeded. We are equal, you and
I, for we are gentlemen, with our own code
of honour. Strange that I have not yet
met Evangeline ! To-morrow I shall go in
search of my fairy ; to-night I will dream
of her. Good-night, Ran's messenger of
hate." He released his fluttering prisoner,
and it gladly winged its way through the
sweet air to the mountain huts. " I have
heard," said Harold as he prepared to retire
to rest, '' that none but Ran has had the
courage to tread those heights. I know
one who will dare them. The mountain is
free."

The next morning, over breakfast,
Harold and Mauvais spoke of their plans.
*' It will be an act of courtesy," said
Mauvais, '' now that the house is in order,
to let the islanders know that we shall be
willing to exchange civilities with them.
We are tolerably good society for each
other, but we should die of weariness if
left to ourselves."

"We are of one mind upon that,"
replied Harold. " Doubtless the islanders

will rejoice at the opportunity of paying
court to one so high in station as yourself.
Does it not strike you, however, as singular
that up to this day we have not been
troubled with visitors ? "

They would scarcely come uninvited,
Harold."

Being possessed of really delicate instincts.
You may be right. It is not I
who am in question. It is to you,
Mauvais, that certain things are due.
Your rank, your station, your character,
are entitled to consideration. Yet these
islanders may require to be taught."

We will teach them, Harold," said
Mauvais, with a smile : " it is only necessary
that we should be seen."

Let us be seen, then, by all means.
The sun is out ; shall we walk ? "

But, although they showed themselves in
their best attire and with the polish of
their fine manners upon them, Mauvais
did not receive the attention he believed
to be his due. Those of the islanders with
whom they came in contact evinced no
disposition to form acquaintance with

them. They looked once upon the gentlemen,
and did not seem to care to look
again. To the questions graciously put
to them by Mauvais and Harold, answers
were received in monosyllables ; the
spirit in which they were met was the
spirit of avoidance. The young were
attracted to them ; but it invariably
happened that men or women of maturer
age stepped between them and the
children, or between them and the young
women with whom they would have conversed.
This uniform coldness of reception
acted in an opposite way upon the
two friends ; Harold was amused at it ;
Mauvais was irritated.
• " You regard it too seriously, Mauvais."
said Harold, as they walked homewards ;
the people require education. It is not
to be endured that they should show themselves
blind to our merits. For myself I
care not. Nature is a companion in whom
I am ever able to take delight; she is
sufficient for me. But it is different with
you. The society of fair women is a
necessity of your being; you have never

been able to live without them. I trust
the stern morality of the islanders will not
stand in the was of your pleasures."

Harold ! "

Yes, Mauvais ? "

** I am tolerably familiar with your light
manner. Do not push it too far."

Harold gazed at his friend in astonishment.
" Do you believe me insincere,
then ? Since when have you found me
backward in friendship ? Take heart,
Mauvais. We shall not lack adventure in
this isle. Trust me for that. What is not
willingly given must be taken by force. Is
not that idea sufficient to stir your blood ?
It stirs mine. I, for one, do not intend to
die of stagnation. See — who comes this
way? One of the fair maids of the isle
and alone ! Fortune has not deserted
us ! "

What more he would have said remained
unspoken ; his words were frozen on his
tongue. The girl who now stood before
them was the living presentment of one
whom he had loved in secret in the years
that were gone, to whom in the bygone time

his tenderest thoughts had been given,
and for whose sake he would have sacrificed
all that was dearest to him in life. And
this maiden resembled her in a manner so
startling that for a few moments he was
deprived of the power of speech. But it
soon returned to him, and he laughed in
scorn of himself.

It is incredible' he said aloud, " that
such a materialist as I should believe in
apparitions. Do not be alarmed, fair
maid ; we are mortals like yourself. Butin
truth you remind me of a friend ; and
we are strangers on the isle."

I have heard of you," said the girl,
with a frankness common to all the
younger residents in the Silver Isle ; " you
live in our house."

*' The voice is not hers," said Harold
gaily, " and the spell is broken. We live in
your old house. Then your name is — ? "

'' Gabrielle."

You have another."

Sylvester."

And your mother's name is Margaret."

'^ Yes."

'* Pardon my abruptness," said Harold
gently, moving aside so that lie might
pass.

*' There is nothing to pardon," said
Gabrielle, walking past them.

Still another question, if you will not

think me rude. Were you born upon this

isle?"

"Yes," replied Gabrielle, in surprise.

That is well. The dream has vanished.
I hope we shall meet again."

He bowed with the grace that was natural
to him, and presently Gabrielle was no
longer in sight. Then Harold glanced at
Mauvais.

My questions were pertinent, Mauvais ?
Confess, now, that they were not entirely
out of place ! "

Mauvais took a jewelled snuff-box from
his pocket, and offered it, with a smile, to
Harold. Harold accepted the courtesy,
but said inly, —

Has Mauvais a heart, or what is called
a heart ? "

'* You are thinking of something, Harold,
in which I am interested," said Mauvais.

'' I confess it, Mauvais. I was asking
myself in what you believed."

'' And unable to answer yourself ? That
betrays a lack of perception. I gave you
credit for knowing me better. Shall I
supply the answer ? "

Yes."

Love."

In its spiritual aspect ? "

I am a mortal, Harold."

Mauvais, I am beginning to envy you.
You are not only brave but rash where
your self-love or honour is concerned, and
I doubt not would give up your life in
support of a conviction. And you value
life, I know."

'' It is the highest gift, Harold."

Yet we are told that there is something
higher, to which most men cling."

So do not I. The present is my
anchor. I leave theology to the priests."

Long live to-day ! " I shall consider
seriously whether it would not be more
profitable to myself to turn epicure."

"It would add to your enjoyment of
life, Harold."

*' Indeed, I believe so — or it would, if
one were born to the inheritance. For
these things are not always matters of
choice. Selfish men suffer least. Those
who have no faith have all the world open
to them. I would I were a true fatalist :
I would pluck the ripest fruit, without
thought to whom it belonged. Eepr cached
for taking what is not my own, I should
answer, ' It is fate.' A convenient creed ! "

Harold, you wander from your theme."

And my theme is — ? "

Mauvais faced his friend with some
disposition of seriousness, which lasted fora
moment only. With a gay laugh he
offered his snuff-box again.

'' Mauvais," said Harold, harking back,
I asked in what you believed. You supplied
me with an answer which I decline to
accept. It is impossible that a man should
live to your years without thought of the
past, without dread of the future. If you
had the realization of a wish, what would
it be ? "

That I might be young again, and
live a hundred years. Speaking in earnest,

Harold, you are growing sombre ; it was
not always so. There was a time when
you accepted pleasure without question."

Say that I seemed to do so, Mauvais."


And did not betray the seeming. One
must judge from the outside. If you
choose to conceal your feelings, you must
take the consequences. You smile through
all the days, and suddenly you come to
your friend and say, ' The smile was on my
lips, but not in my heart.' How is your
friend to judge you? He may say with
fair reason, ' You have deceived me through
all the days ; you are deceiving me now'.
Then at once is introduced into the friendly
bond a sentiment which feeds like a worm
upon the heart of friendship, and robs it
of its pleasant aspect. From that moment
it becomes a burden. I do believe," says
Mauvais, abruptly breaking off, " that I
have allowed myself to be betrayed into a
lecture. The effect of bad example, Harold.
Reflect upon what I have said, and extract
a lesson from it ; else you will soon cease
to be amusing. As for myself, take me as

I am and for what I am, and be content —
and grateful. You have wit enough to
read me better than you profess to be able
to do ; have the wit to understand that I
can read you better than you suppose.
What there is in my life that affects
me closely belongs only to myself. If I
have opened a window in it through
which you have hitherto not seen, I close
it now for ever. So — now we are as we
were; it will be your fault if things do
not go on smoothly between us. Be
yourself, as I have known you; but be
careful not to go beyond the line of
safety."

By the time they had arrived at this
point in their conversation they had
reached home, and the last words were
spoken as they stood at a window overlooking
the garden.

A visitor, Mauvais," said Harold.
'* Our stroll has borne fruit. A woman,
too, so the interview is likely to be
pleasant."

He had already detected who the woman
was who was now walking towards the

house ; but Mauvais's sight was not so
keen as his.

"Young, Harold?"

I am afraid not ; she has a matronly
walk. Shall we receive her ? "

Certainly, if she desire it. Play the
host for me ; my lecture has wearied
me."

You, also, are an actor, Mauvais," was
Harold's thought, as he watched the
progress of the woman; 'but if you
think you have deceived me, you are
grievously deceived. A fire is smouldering
which any chance spark may kindle into a
blaze."

To a servant who announced that a
woman desired an audience, ho gave instructions
to admit her, and Margaret
Sylvester entered the room. Her face was
as white as death, but she had come in pursuance
of a purpose which could no longer
be delayed; the agony of her mind was
so great that she could not continue to
endure it without an effort to satisfy the
doubts which were racking her soul. She
looked around the old familiar room with

VOL. III. K

dim eyes ; the action was mechanical, and
meant nothing. She saw the form but not
the face of Man vain, for he had moved into
the shadow ; the only face she saw and
recognized was that of Harold, with whom
the purport of her visit was immediately
connected.

He stepped forward as she entered,
and with a courteous motion invited her
to be seated. She scarcely noticed the
courtesy, and for a few moments her
agitation deprived her of the power of
speech. Meanwhile, Harold waited in
patience.

Do you know me ? " she asked, when
her strength returned to her.

We have met twice," replied Harold,
gently; *' the first time, you charmed me
with your voice ; the second, with your
womanly kindness to an unfortunate."

'' May I speak to you freely ? "

'' Freely."

You have seen me twice, you say,
within this isle. Look well into my face,
and tell me if you have any remembrance
of it in the past ? "

Harold, obeying her, looked steadily at
her. " It is not for me to say," he replied,
with a thoughtful glance at Mauvais, who,
having seated himself, appeared to be
paying but indolent attention to the
dialogue. '^ The past stretches so far
back, and my memory plays me treacherous
tricks."

She felt that his answer was not
honest ; that it lacked sincerity. " Would
you wantonly inflict torture upon an
innocent woman, or upon any person who
never by thought or deed did harm to
you?"

No ; it is not in my nature."

And yet you do not answer me. To
what can I appeal ? To your chivalry ?
To your humanity ? If you knew my
sufferings, you would pity me. I scarcely
know how to approach the subject which
brings me here to-day, to the house in
which my children were born, and in
which I have spent so many happy years.
I beg you, by your sense of honour, by
your sense of right and mercy and justice,
to help me if you can. You are a gentle

2

man ; I am but a weak and most unhappy

woman."

Harold turned suddenly to Mauvais.
*' Mauvais," he said, " this is the mother
of the girl we met this morning. This is
Margaret Sylvester."

Margaret looked towards Mauvais, whose
face was still averted from her, and who
acknowledged the introduction by a nod.

You saw my daughter Gabrielle ? "

Yes, and spoke with her," said Harold.
*' It is seldom I have seen a fairer face.
You appeal to my chivalry ; I thank you
for the compliment ; and to my humanity
not often, I am sorry to say, brought
into play. If I speak lightly, find some
excuse for me; it is my manner. Your
appeal places me at a disadvantage. A
woman's strength is in her weakness, and
man is no match for her. Now, you have
men in your household — a father, a
husband, a son. Had any one of these
come in your place, it would have been
easy to answer him."

*' They do not know of my visit. I am
here of my own prompting."

*' Is no person acquainted with your
presence here to-day ? "

'' No person"'

You have friends outside your family
who do not regard us with too much
favour."

I do not understand to whom you
refer."

To Eanf the hunchback, for one."

He is not aware that I have come to

you."

At the mention of Ran's name, Mauvais
exhibited a closer interest.

May I proceed ? " asked Margaret.

It would be churlish to prevent you." '

I will speak more plainly. I am nota
native of the Silver Isle. My girlhood's
days were passed in your own land, whereat
the saddest crisis of my life I met my
husband, then a stranger to me, and his
father. I was worse than alone ; I was in
the power of a man who betrayed me, and
who tore from me the being most dear tome.
Even now, although I have children
whom I love and a husband whose tender
regard for me is as great as any woman

could hope for — even now, in this peaceful
isle, where want and worldly cares are
unknown, where we live honoured and
respected, with the prospect of a happy
ending to our days — even now, I feel
that this being to whom I refer is more
closely knit to my heart than those
who call me wife and mother. She was
my sister, and between us existed a love
which made us one. I was older, wiser,
stronger than she, and when our father
died, it was I who took the place of parent
and protector to one whose innocence
should have been as a shield against the
treacherous arts of villains who live to
betray, and who bring shame to those
who are weaker than themselves. It was
our unhappy lot, through our father's
misplaced faith and confidence, to find
ourselves at his death in the power of an
unscrupulous master who used what little
talents we possessed to his own selfish
advantage. I could have borne that ; I
did bear it, looking forward to the day
when we should be of age and out of his
power. This villain made love to my

sister, and I taught him a lesson which,
prevented him from ever again insulting
her. He was an ignorant, ill-bred man,
with no pretensions to the title of gentleman.
It happened that fatal fortune took
us to a town in which our master hoped to
enrich himself; he was a gambler, and
there were gaming-houses in the town.
We became favourites with the people,
and he made money by the exhibition of
our talents. We were called upon to
perform before a company of gentlemen ina
theatre which seems to me even at this
distance of time the most beautiful on
earth. I have not told you — we were
travelling actresses, with no stain upon
our name. Our lives were as pure as those
of the highest ladies in the land ; and inmost
places we met with respect. Our
success was so complete in this beautiful
theatre that it led to a most base and
shameful betrayal. In the middle of the
night my sister and I were awakened to
dance and sing before two gentlemen with
whom our master was gambling. At first
I rebelled, but I was compelled to obey.

Can I ever forget that night ? Is it
possible that I, loving my sister more
dearly than ever woman was loved by man,
can lose the remembrance of the smallest
incident in that fatal night which tore my
darling for ever from my side ? The room
to which we were conducted was but dimly
lighted ; our master was there, flushed with
wine and excitement, and with him two
gentlemen whose features are as familiar
to me at the present moment as though my
meeting with them occurred but yesterday
in the sun's full light."

Margaret paused, and looked straight
at Harold with a meaning he could not
mistake. Harold met her look without
an attempt at avoidance, and said gently,
'' Go on."

Only one of the gentlemen was playing
with our master ; the other came towards
us with a candelabra in his hand, and
spoke in a tone so courteous that it was
almost sufficient, if anything could have
satisfied me, to allay my fears. Before he
addressed us, this gentleman said a few
words which in my after experience

afforded a clue to his profession. I do not
remember to whafc they were an answer.
His words were these : ' She can dance in
shadow;' he was referring to my sister,
who was almost asleep in my arms. ' Let
her dance in shadow he said ; ' it will
form a finer picture.' None but an artist
would have given expression to the
words, and I judged afterwards that this
gentleman was probably a painter or a
sculptor."

A shrewd guess," said Harold, observing
that she paused in the expectation
of hearing him speak. " Your story is
more than interesting ; it recalls a dream
of the past."

Margaret looked at him gratefully. " Is
it necessary that I shall proceed? "

"What say you, Mauvais?" asked
Harold. " Do you wish to hear what
follows ? "

'' I leave it to you, Harold," replied
Mauvais ; " I know that I can rely upon
your discretion."

Proceed, then," said Harold to
Margaret.

To put a shameful construction upon
what I afterwards heard," said Margaret,
in a lower tone than that she had
hitherto used, "would be to cast dishonour
upon my sister. The words that
passed between our master and the gentleman
with whom he was playing bore no
meaning to my mind at the time. If I
had rightly understood them, no power
on earth could have prevented me from
guarding and protecting my sister until
death stepped in. But I forget ! I forget !
When vile unworthy means are used to
accomplish a base purpose, love's armour
is powerless for defence ! "

Neither Harold nor Mauvais attempted
to break the silence which ensued, and
presently Margaret resumed her story :

We danced and sang for the pleasure
of these gentlemen until, wearied and exhausted,
my sister sank into my arms. I
watched over her, kneeling by her side,
and slept with her, unfaithful guardian
that I was. When I awoke in the morning
I was alone ; my sister was gone, lost
to me for ever from that fatal night. In

reply to my anxious inquiries — my sister
and I had never before been separated for
an hour — my master told me a plausible
tale of having sent her on in advance of us
in the care of a friend ; he swore to me
that he spoke the truth, and bade me
hasten to get ready to follow her. I asked
him whether the gentlemen before whom
we had performed were in the hotel — for I
had some vague idea of appealing to them
for protection; and he informed me that
they had taken their departure early in
the morning. More than one suspicious
circumstance indicated that he was deceiving
me, but I hoped against hope, and we
travelled forward in the direction taken, ashe
averred, by my sister. In the night we
arrived at an inn where I expected to find
her; she was not there, and the following
morning we resumed our journey ; and
when, on the evening of that second day,
we reached a village, and I learned that all
traces of my dear one were lost, the bitter
truth forced itself upon me that we had
been basely betrayed. It will not help me
now to recall the agony of my position. I

was in a part of the country of which I
was completely ignorant ; I was without
money, and was utterly, utterly helpless.
To have left my master would have been
voluntarily to deprive myself of even the
remotest chance of recovering my sister.
My master was cunning; seeing that I
suspected him, he offered me my liberty,
although, as I was legally bound to him,
he could have compelled me to work for
him until I was twenty-one years of age.
With as much calmness and wisdom as I
could bring to my aid I debated how I
should act, and I could come to no other
conclusion than that my only hope lay in
remaining with my master, and keeping a
watch over his movements. Months passed,
and my hope died away. How wretched
was my life, and with what self-torturing
was I afflicted I So time passed until I
made the acquaintance of Matthew Sylvester
and his son. By what means the goodman
who afterwards became my father
obtained my release from the power of a
human monster, he has never divulged, but
it could have been only by purchase, for

my master would have sold his soul for
money. I travelled with them, sharing
their life, and after a time Matthew broke
the news to me of my darling sister's
death ; he had learned it from my master,
and had mercifully withheld it from me.
So, with that earthly tie severed, as I
believed, for ever, I married Matthew
Sylvester's son, and we came to the Silver
Isle."

"And here ends your story," said Harold,
who had followed Margaret's narrative with
the closest attention.

No ; there is more to tell, which will
enable you to understand the reason of my
visit, if indeed you are still in ignorance of
it. When my second child, Gabrielle, was
born, a statue of Evangeline, a name loved
and honoured in the isle, was set up in the
market-place. It was the work of a young
sculptor in the old world, and there was
great talk of its beauty. I gazed upon it
in wonder and terror, for the face I saw
was the face of my sister. The sculptor
who modelled those marble features must
have known Clarice."

This was the first time Margaret lead mentioned
the name of her sister, and Harold
said :

*' Do you hear, Mauvais ? Clarice ? "

I hear, Harold'' replied Mauvais,
calmly; "the woman had best finish her
story."

'' I allowed myself to be argued out of
my fancy, but it was never entirely dispelled,
and events have lately occurred
which have fixed it in my mind as a certain
conviction. Not only was I betrayed in
being torn from her I loved so dearly, but
I was deceived in the story of her death.
At the time my master informed Matthew
Sylvester that my sister was dead, she lived.
Why was the wicked lie spoken ? To what
base end — for what base purpose ? "

Why do you question me ? " asked
Harold.

Because you, perhaps, are the only
person within this isle who can relieve my
tortured heart. You are the sculptor of
the image of Clarice."

A surmise," said Harold.

**A certainty," retorted Margaret.

*' There is no name, it is true, to the image,
but the letter H is cut in the marble. Your
name is Harold."

Consistently argued. What then ? "

'' What then ? " echoed Margaret,
advancing towards him with clasped
hands and heaving bosom. "Is it not
natural that I should come to you to
ascertain the fate of my beloved sister?
If you are the sculptor — and you have not
denied it, being a gentleman, who, to
screen himself, would scorn to hide behind
a lie — you knew Clarice after I believed
her to be dead. You are one of the two
before whom we were dragged in the
night at the will of our cruel master.
When we first met here upon this isle you
recognized me, and you saw that I recognized
you. Answer me, if you have the
feelings of a man ? What has become of
my sister Clarice ? "

'' Direct me, Mauvais," said Harold.
How am I to reply ? "

Mauvais in a careless tone, gave direction.
'' In any way you please, in what concerns
yourself. If this matter is yours, satisfy the

woman according to your whim. Invent,
imagine, speak the truth or lie — in short,
say anything that occurs to your ingenious
mind ; but in so far as I am concerned, I
forbid you to violate the confidence of
friendship. My own affairs I can settle
without interference ; and believe me,
Harold, I will allow none."

Rising to leave the room, Mauvais was
suddenly confronted by Margaret, who, now
that he was standing with the light upon
his face, recognized him.

"Great Heaven ! " she exclaimed ; "you
are the gentleman who was playing cards
with my master on that fatal night ! " She
looked from one to the other in dumb
amazement; neither Harold nor Mauvais
assisted her by sign or word. " Will you
not speak ? " she cried. " Can you stand
calmly by, having the power to say what
I would give my best blood to hear, and
speak no word ? Are you men or
monsters?"

Mauvais frowned. "You are bold,
mistress."

You would find me bolder," exclaimed

Margaret, with flaming eyes, "if I had
reason to suppose that you, or you " — turning
defiantly to Harold — " had wronged
my sister, an innocent child, with no knowledge
or suspicion of the world's cruelty
and deceit ! "

Mauvais tapped his snuffbox lightly, and
with a smile asked, " What would you
do?"

'' What would I do ? I would kill you
where you stand ! Ah, me ! What am I
saying ? I forget that I am a woman."

Your forgetfulness extends fartherthan
that, mistress. But in this matter, truly,
you would need a champion."

I should find one," she cried as hot ashe
was cool. " There is not a man on the
Silver Isle who would not champion my
cause, for it is the cause oi right and virtue.
And remember, I have those Dearer tome
who would hold their lives lightly,
if I called upon them to avenge a cruel
wrong inflicted upon a pure and helpless
girl. For she was betrayed — I know it
now — I feel it here ! " pressing her hand
to her heart. " Oh, God ! throw light upon

VOL. III. L

this mystery, and bring the guilty to
justice ! "

Listen to me," said Mauvais, in his
smooth polished voice, which nothing
seemed able to disturb, " and know your
station. Had you appealed to me in a
manner which showed that you were aware
of the difference in our positions, I might
have satisfied you — ''

'' Having the power? " demanded Margaret,
every pulse in her body throbbing
with passion.

Having the power," replied Mauvais.
*'I might, I say, have satisfied you, and
told you something of your sister. That
it might not have pleased you springs
from the fact that you and she are of a
different order from those you are now
addressing."

I thank Heaven for it, with all my
soul ! " cried Margaret, with a growing
horror of this polished gentleman.

'had you chosen," continued Mauvais,
'' to speak in tones of humbleness, you
would have gone from this house — and I
bid you begone quickly, for it is mine —

somewhat wiser than you entered it.
During our pleasant interview, mistress,
you have asked many questions. Favour
me by answering one — the only one — I
shall put to you. Lives there upon this
isle any person to whom you are indebted
for the new light which has so suddenly
dawned upon you ? "

'' Yes," she replied ; '' Ran the hunchback."


I suspected as much. Ask him to be
your champion."

I will do so."

Good. Now, go," pointing to the
door, " unless you wish to be turned from
my gates."

I will go," said Margaret, walking to
the door ; " but a voice within me tells me
we shall meet again."

I shall look forward to the interview,"
said Mauvais, with a graceful bow, '' with
infinite pleasure."

Never, in her after life, was Margaret
able to remember how she reached the
gates, and passed beyond them. She did
so, with no consciousness of time or space,

L 2

and she saw nothing, heard nothing, until
Harold, who had followed her, laid his
hand upon her arm.

Pardon me," he said, " for my share
of the proceedings which have so much
distressed you ; but I was free neither to
act nor speak as my heart dictated. I have
something to say to you which could not
be spoken within the house you have just
left."

His manner was so earnest, and his
demeanour so different from that in which
he had hitherto presented himself to her,
that she could not but listen to him. He
continued :

In the story you told us of the career
of your sister and yourself you said that
your lives were pure and stainless. To
cast a doubt upon that statement would
be, I am certain — on my truth and honour,
not as a gentleman, but as a man, I aver
it — as false as it would be shameful. I
believe it implicitly, unhesitatingly, but
for a reason of my own, in which you and
your pitiful story play their part, I want
to hear it once more from your own lips."

Shall I utter it again to one who
has proved himself my enemy?" she
asked.

I am not your enemy," he declared,
with moist eyes and quivering lips ; "I
swear that I am and would be your
friend ? "

"It is monstrous," she cried, '' that one
who assisted to betray my unhappy sister
should thus address me ! "

Ah, how you wrong me ! and with
what apparent cause! — for truth and justice
and evidence are on your side, and I
stand alone without a witness. You must
trust me — you must! Careless, reckless,'
regardless as I may seem of all that is
highest and noblest in this life and the
next — for I believe in it, Margaret Sylvester
there is in me a worthier spirit than I
have ever shown to the world, than I have
ever admitted even to myself in my hours
of self-communion. In saying this I do
not desire to avoid responsibility. As I
have sown, so must I reap — and I have
sown deliberately, tares, weeds, and plants
which have been as a poison to my soul.

Let it pass ; what is done, is done, and my
life shall answer for it — my life which I
account of less value than the frailest blade
of grass. But in this matter which you
have revealed to-day there is something
which is infinitely dearer to me than life,
if life were as precious to me as it is to
most. I knew your sister; I honoured,
pitied, and respected her. May hope and
mercy be blotted out for me through all
eternity if by word or deed I ever did her
wrong ! Do you believe me ? "

"I do," said Margaret, carried away by
his fervour and earnestness ; " you compel
me to believe you."

** By-and-by you may believe without
compelling, and, of your own honest, un-biassed
will, may think of me with tenderness
and pity. Voices whisper to me, as
they have done to you. Fate and destiny
are working to their allotted end, and the
hand of man cannot arrest them. Now let
me hear once more from your lips that the
lives of your sister and your own, at the
time I met you in the old land, were pure
and stainless."

Have you a sister ? "

No''

'' A mother ? "

No ; she died when I was a child. She
is to me but a memory."

A pure memory ? "

She has been to me the emblem of
purity — its spirit, its incarnation. In
my earlier days I used to look up to
heaven believing that she shone upon
me in the light of a star. The brightest,
the sweetest and most peaceful, speaking
to me, with silent voice, of sacred
hopes and aims which have long since died
out of my life. You have revived that
holy memory. To-night I shall see my
mother's star in the heavens ; and upon
my knees, for the first time for God
knows how many years, I shall breathe a
prayer."

Pure as the memory of your sainted
mother," said Margaret, solemnly, " was
my beloved sister Clarice when you first
saw her in the old land." Involuntarily
she held out her hand to him, and he took
it and raised it to his lips. She was about

imploringly to ask him now to divulge what
he knew concerning Clarice, when, divining
her attention, he begged her to say no
more at present.

Soon you shall know all," he said ; " I
go to take the seal from my lips."

And with these strange words he left her,
and returned to Mauvais's house.

CHAPTER VII.

HAROLD DEMANDS AN EXPLANATION OP
Mauvais.

On his way, Harold paused two or three
times to wipe his lips, which were dry, and
his forehead, which was moist, and to
contemplate the evidences of Mauvais's
exquisite taste and culture. He paused,
also, at the group which he had cut ki
marble of Ran and Evangeline.

*' It is a disgrace to an artist," he
mused, " but it is not my property, and
must stand as a record of my shame.
Thus does an artist sell his soul, piecemeal,
for wine and fine linen. But there
is a better record in the market-place,
which may compensate for this libel. I
feel almost weak-minded enough to go and
set my name upon it; not this hour,
though; I have other work to do*'

He walked straight to the room in which
he had left Mauvais. His friend was not
there ; he went then to a smaller room
which Mauvais had made into a. study.
He tried the door ; it was locked. He
knocked, and Mauvais answered.

"Who is there?"

It is I— Harold'

I am resting," said Mauvais, from
within, " and cannot be disturbed."

I must see you at once."

Must ! " echoed Mauvais haughtily.

It is imperative."

The door was unlocked, and Harold
entered. The room was in disorder, and
bore no signs of the rest which Mauvais
said he was taking; every secret drawer
in a large and handsome desk was open,
and the table and desk were strewn with
papers. "You have been busy, I see,"
said Harold.

I told you," rejoined Mauvais, with a
lack of cordiality, " that I was at rest. I
did not wish to be disturbed."

And I told you it was imperative I

should see you. I regret the necessity, but
it is not the less a necessity, because you
are reluctant to be disturbed."

In this brief dialogue the ordinary tone
observed by these friends in their conversations
had been lost sight of; this
appeared to strike them simultaneously,
and they at once relapsed into their usual
manner. Mauvais pointed to a chair,
covered with papers, and Harold, without
apology, scattered the papers to the floor,
and took the seat.

You must have something of the
greatest interest to communicate," said
Mauvais, with a purposed drawl, " that-you
intrude upon me against my wish."

You are partly right, Mauvais ; I have
something of the greatest interest, not
exactly to communicate, but to speak to
you upon."

I observed that you followed that
woman out of the house."

'' Yes, I followed her."

'' And conversed with her ? "

Yes."

*' Do you wish to relate to me what
passed between you ? "

No, I have no such wish ; but in what
we have now to say, you may perhaps
gather something of its import."

You are in a strange humour,
Harold."

Mauvais, I have seen a ghost."

*' Of a woman? "

** Of a star."

Come, this promises well."

I almost hope it will not end as well,
for if it does my hopes may disappear and
my faith may be once more lost, never
again to be restored."

Interesting as ever, Harold; I scarcely
regret you disturbed me."

*' Mauvais, I must speak to you seriously."


** I hate seriousness, but if you insist
upon it, I will not thwart you."

Let us, then, travel back in memory to
the eventful night so vividly recalled awhile
since by Margaret Sylvester."

I have had occasion, Harold, to warn
you lately more than once ; I trust you

are not going to compel me to do so
again."

"It is immaterial, Mauvais ; no warnings,
exhortations, threats, or appeals, can
divert me from the goal upon which my
mind is set. Spare, then, your breath,
and let us converse freely, and, if we can,
honestly."

Have you come to pick a quarrel ? "
'' Heaven forbid ; but if that contingency
were to occur, we at least should
know how to settle it. We stand on
equal ground; we are both gentlemen.
Mauvais, I have been your friend. Your
companion in many a daring and many a
foolish, adventure, I have never yet had
occasion to question your courage or your
honour. ]sot always in harmony with you,
stung sometimes by the airs of superiority
you have assumed — and in which to some
extent you were fairly justified — I have
followed your lead in idle mood, and have
upheld you before your face and behind
your back, as was the duty of a friend
who, although he could not justly defend,
on the strict score of morality, all that

was done, still was content to share the
pleasure and the consequences of acts in
which he was a participant."

It suited you, Harold."

I do not deny it ; nor do I assume a
virtue which I am conscious I have never
possessed. But I have always understood
and on my honour I speak the truth
that those who were led by us to
share our pleasures, or who of their own
accord joined in them, were like ourselves
votaries of pleasure. I use the word
in its ordinary acceptation. That some
required to be wooed, coaxed, intrigued
for — that some held off and by so doing
added to the pursuit a keener enjoyment —
that some falsely professed, and needed
argument, persuasion, protestation, before
they joined the hunt — led always to the
same result. Judged by a moral standard
I ask a thousand pardons for dragging
in such a figure of speech — we and they
were invariably on an equality ; of the
earth earthy, with but one object in view
enjoyment of life."

You have missed your vocation.

Harold ; you should have been a new-school
preacher."

I have missed much of which I shall
never now obtain possession. What I
have said has been not in justification butin
explanation of myself. Mauvais, in all
that I have joined, in all that I have
participated, I have never once had
reason to suppose that innocence was
betrayed."

Poor innocence ! and simple, unsophisticated
Harold ! I see the dimmest glimmer
of a light."

It will grow clearer with every word
that follows. I come, then, once more, ta
the night so vividly recalled by Margaret
Sylvester. I need not detail again the
events of that night."

'' For love's sake, no ! It is as clear tome
as it seems to be to you ; although why
it should have so much affected you passes
my comprehension. But I shall be soon
enlightened."

I had arrived, without premeditation,
in a town in which you were making a
brief stay ; I could stop but a few hours.

There was but one hotel for gentlemen in
the town, and there I put up. I was young
at the time — "

*' Very nearly as young, my dear Harold,
as you are at the present time."

'' I would it were so. We had met
before, and had formed an agreeable acquaintanceship,
almost, if not quite, a
friendship. You professed to be delighted
to see me. ' Harold,' said you, ' I can
give you a night of pleasure and delight.
There is here a travelling manager, with
two of the loveliest creatures you have
ever beheld. I have engaged them to
sing and dance in a theatre attached to
this hotel, and only my private friends are
to be admitted to witness the performance.
The manager is a scoundrel, and the girls
well, what such girls usually are. Dine
with me, and be my guest for the night.'
I gladly consented — I was proud of your
friendship, Mauvais, for your name stood
high, as it has always stood, and to be
accepted by you was a mark of distinction.
Believe me it was not on those worldly
grounds that you won me ; I had no sordid

object in view ; but it was because I fancied
I discerned in you a nature akin to my
own'

Harold's voice faltered as he recalled
these youthful dreams, and his head
drooped, and Mauvais, as he regarded the
man who was young enough to be his son,
was stirred by an unusual tenderness. He
placed his hand upon Harold's hand, and
for a moment Harold allowed it to rest
there. Then he drew it softly away, and
raising his head, gazed at Mauvais sadly,
with tears in his eyes. Mauvais, scarcely
knowing what he did, held out his arms,
as though he would embrace his friend ;
but Harold held back, and Mauvais' s arms
fell to his side. In a constrained voice he
said, —

Your memory is perfect ; proceed."
"The entertainment you furnished,"
continued Harold, " was princely. No
wonder your friends were always ready to
stand by you ; you gave them ever of your
best, and there was no stint to your generosity.
After dinner we adjourned to the
theatre, some score or so of gentlemen,

VOL. III. M

flushed with wine and eager for pleasure ;
but you, Mauvais, were cool and collected.
I have noticed that wine does not intoxicate
you, and that in the midst of the greatest
excitement you never commit an indiscretion
of speech. This is one of the
qualities which have enabled you to retain
your supremacy over those of weaker
minds with whom you associated. You
spoke of the girls whose performances we
were about to witness, certainly with enthusiasm,
but at the same time with moderation
and self-possession. You implied
that you were in a sense their master.
It was as if you said : ' I will show you
something of rare excellence, but understand
that it is mine.' There was no
question on our part as to your right, and
when the sisters appeared, and danced and
sang, we envied you the possession of a
prize so exquisite. At the conclusion of
the performance some among us were wild
for an introduction to your fair ones, and
I remember your saying, gravely and with
decision, ' Gentlemen, the play is over ;
Good-night.' They took the hint and

J

departed ; and I was also about to depart,
when you begged me to remain. ' On
one condition,' I said ; * that you afford
me another glimpse of these strangely
beautiful girls.' ' You shall be gratified,'
you replied, and asked me, with the air
of a conqueror, if I was smitten. Now,
Mauvais, let me make the confession to
you that I was deeply agitated by what had
occurred. The girls were so different from
anjr I had seen — there was so genuine an air
of innocence and simplicity about them —
they were so beautiful, so young, and so
apparently guileless, that it was with difficulty
I could bring myself to believe they
were not pure-minded. You convinced me
to the contrary ; you spoke of them lightly
and flippantly, and introduced into your
remarks so much of world-wisdom that
I accepted these fair creatures with the
brand you placed upon them, and strove
to think they were what you said they
were. It pained me to the heart to do so,
and frequently my better self whispered
to me, * It is impossible; believe him not.'
I was compelled to depart early in the

M 2

morning, and I had a task to perform
before I left with respect to a commission
for a piece of sculpture. I was at that
time an enthusiast in my art ; I left you
to execute my task, saying I would join you
in an hour. It was past midnight when
I returned, and then, to my surprise, I
found you in the company of the scoundrel
manager; you and he were gambling for
high stakes, higher, I saw in an instant,
than such a man as he could afford to play
for. However, it was no business of mine,
and, haying conceived an intolerable aversion
to the fellow, I sat down, and watched
with pleasure the tortures you were inflicting
upon him by winning from him sums
of money which it was impossible he would
ever be able to pay. No one could
excel you in this kind of work; your
coolness, your finesse, your imperturbable
good-temper, were terrible weapons against
a man of low breeding and indifferent
education, who trembled with eager greed
at every shuffle of the cards, and railed
at fortune in the coarsest and vulgares
terms. I whispered to you once, ' What

is your object, Mauvais ? ' 'To ruin this
scoundrel irretrievably you replied ; ' to
punish him for impertinence towards my
goddess, and release lier for ever from iiis
guardianship.' It was reasonable enough,
I thought, and I wished you success in
your endeavour. Success was yours, for
fortune was on your side, and every
ticking of the clock added to the entanglement
of the scoundrel. It is unnecessary,
Mauvais, unless you wish it, for me to
continue my description of what passed
during that night; it has already been
related by Margaret Sylvester in tones
which are ringing now in my ears."

"Consider, then," said Mauvais, 'that
the story of the night — I am beginning to
weary of it, Harold — is finished, and come
at once to what it is evident you desire to
say. Upon that point I am curious."

The gambling duel is over," said
Harold, " and the scoundrel is ruined. In
the intervals of the shuffling and cutting
of the cards certain words passed between
you and your antagonist which were evidently
not intended for my ears, and of

wliicli the purport was not plain ; but I
asked for no explanation, not feeling
myself justified. You and I are standing
in the clear morning's light outside the
hotel ; my horse is saddled, and I am
ready to depart. The past vanishes,
Mauvais. I see you, with no signs of
fatigue upon your face ; you are calm and
collected, and, your hand in mine, are
wishing me good-bye. There is something
very sweet and pure in the air ; the town
lies hushed in sleep ; the windows of the
hotel we have just quitted are beaming
with rosy colour. It comes upon me to
speak once more of the girls we left
sleeping side by side. I say to you, ' But
for your assurance, Mauvais, I should
never have believed that an impure
thought could reside in the hearts of
either of these sisters, especially of the
younger.' * Were you ten years older,
Harold,' you reply, ' you would not find it
difficult to believe. Let me undeceive
you ; the girls are not sisters. They call
themselves so for their own purposes. It
is probable, Harold, that we shall not

meet again for months. Take this piece
of wisdom with you in your travels : never
believe in a woman's looks or a woman's
words ; the fairer the face the falser the
woman.' And having refreshed and
strengthened me with this cup of poison,
you bade me farewell. It was two years
before we met again, and from the time of
that reunion we have seldom parted but
for a few days or weeks. In those two
years I travelled and saw much, and I can
honestly say that I never lost the memory
of the girl-woman whose face had enthralled
me on the night of our last
meeting ; and when, returning, I met
Clarice once more, and in your company,
I said, ' Mauvais is right; the fairer the
face, the falser the woman.' From that
day I lived two lives — an outward life of
pleasure and excitement and unmeaning
protestation ; an inner life of dreams and
fancies and pure imaginings. In the
actual life there was no sweetness or
freshness — and it was real ; in the dream-life
there were truth, and purity, and
innocence — and it was a delusion. You

had most bitterly proved it to me. And
thus until this day it has remained."

Harold paused, and all the tenderness
departed from his voice. Rising, he confronted
Mauvais, and with a stern look,
said, " I have respected your confidence,
in the belief that no deceit was practised
upon me, and that I had not unwittingly
been made a party to a dishonourable
action. This touches me more nearly
perhaps than you imagine. You are a
brave man and a gentleman ; you will
not deny me my right. I demand an
explanation of you."

Do you threaten, Harold ? "

No ; I simply insist upon my right."

*' Harold," said Mauvais, with deliberation,
'' let this matter rest ; it will be
better for both of us. We have been
friends ; let us continue so."

It is not possible," said Harold, " that
I should ever touch your hand again in
friendship unless you satisfy me that you
have not used me unworthily."

'' You will not be advised ? "

*' I take my own course, as you have

taken yours. God knows where it will
lead me, but I am resolved."

'' You link yourself with that woman —
Margaret Sylvester; you stand with her
against me ? "

Why," exclaimed Harold, in so scornful
a tone that the blood rushed into
Mauvais's face, but almost in the same
moment he forced a smile to his lips, " it
would almost appear that you are appealing
to me for championship ! Then the
Mauvais of to-day is not the Mauvais I
have hitherto known."

'have your way," said Mauvaise,
with a light laugh. " What is it you
require? "

The truth."

You shall have it, Mr. Dreamer, naked
and unvarnished."

'' I expect no less. You are not made
of the metal that is daunted by consequences.
On the night upon which our
fate seems to hang, you told me that Margaret
and Clarice were not sisters. Did
you believe this ? "

Upon my honour, Harold, it is a

problem. I believe in so little ! All is
fair in love and war'*

'' We were not at war ; we were friends,
and I would have defended you to the
death."

All is fair, then, in love, without the
war; and right or wrong, I fancied you
had an eye for the fair one who had
captivated me."

'Tor Clarice?"

'' Yes."

*' You were not mistaken. I loved
her!"

Harold ! "

With all my heart and soul, I loved
her ! Had I believed her pure, no power
on earth could have prevented me from
asking her to be my wife. Do you
admit now that I have a right to an
explanation? "

*' Yes ; but I did not suspect — having
no reason to do so — that your heart was
so deeply engaged."

'' You judged from yourself? "

Yes."

And if you had learned otherwise,

Mauvais, would you have been diverted
from your purpose ? "

'' I think not, Harold ; I was never
given to self-sacrifice."

*^ Answered honestly. And now you
can tell me; did you believe these poor
girls to be sisters ? "

In truth, Harold, I did not consider
too curiously. Their master was such an
incorrigible scoundrel that it was impossible
to trust him or place faith in his
words. He said they were sisters."

Then you spoke falsely when, without
question on my part, you told me that they
were not ? "

You will have to answer to me, Harold,
for the insult."

^* I shall be ready ; we shall neither of
us flinch from what is to follow. I repeat
that you spoke falsely to me when you
told me Margaret and Clarice were not
sisters."

'' I invented a fiction to save you pain.
It was the easiest way, I thought, to
prevent you from taking the affair too
seriously to heart."

*' A proof that you yourself admitted
there was a difference between these girls
and those with whom you classed them.
Their scoundrel-master, Mauvais — did he
tempt you by the lie that they were of an
easy, complying nature, and ready to fall
into your princely arms ? "

No ; he extolled them for their virtue
and their modesty."

Harold caught his breath, and recoiled
a step from Mauvais, exclaiming, '' How
completely Margaret Sylvester was justified
in asking us whether we were men or
monsters ! "

You wished for the truth, Harold, and
I am giving it you."

And having learnt this from the lips
of the man who knew them best, you deliberately
laid a plan for their betrayal ! "

*' Spare me your heroics, Harold, and
make an end as quickly as possible."

'rit is clear to me now. You won of
the scoundrel a sum of money which it was
impossible he could pay, and you bargained
with him for Clarice. He, knowing your
power and influence, knowing that you

could hunt him from place to place, and
utterly ruin him, sold you a pure and helpless
girl, and left her to your mercy." "

*' There is a slight flaw in your indictment.
The bargain was of his suggesting,
not of mine''

But you consented to it ? "

'' Yes, I consented to it, knowing from
experience how easily women are consoled.
Are you satisfied ? "

Perfectly. I now understand the
meaning of that expression of sadness
which never for a moment left Clarice's
face; I now know why I found her so
often in tears, and why, when by chance
our conversation touched upon purity and
innocence in woman, she turned from mein
grief and distress. Poor child ! how she
suffered ! and how deep must have been her
shame and sense of degradation that she
should have kept her heart closed to the offer
of sympathy and help from one in whom
she sometimes said she could have believed,
had not her faith and her hope and her
trust been irretrievably shattered ! Mauvais,
from this moment I renounce your friendship

— you are no longer my friend ! Had
I known earlier what I know now, I should
have proclaimed war against you with all
the strength and earnestness of my soul.
The knowledge comes too late to me
that your heartless cynicism and cold disbelief
in aught that is pure in woman's
breast have robbed me of my dearest hope.
I look back upon myself with contempt
for having been so misled and deceived.
Not yours all the blame ; I should have
had the strength to resist. You have been
like an evil spirit walking by my side,
pointing out corruption, poisoning what
was sweetest and fairest to the eye.
But even now I should be thankful, for
in casting you from me I regain something
of my boyish trust." He looked
towards the window with a sad, strange
smile. "The air is fresher, Mauvais —
the sky brighter; I shall have a better
understanding of Nature's voice and signs.
Before I go, grant me one favour ; I have
asked it before, and you have refused. My
sculptured group of Ran and Evangeline
stands yonder ; destroy it ! "

It is yours, Harold ; I give it to you
freely. Do what you will with it."

For a moment Harold swayed towards
Mauvais ; with a quick and angry motion
he pulled himself back as it were, and
saying, " Farewell ! " left the room.

Mauvais, without stirring, listened to
the retreating footsteps of the man who
had been his friend, and for whom he
entertained more of love than for any
living human creature ; and then he sank
into a chair, resting his head upon his
hand. He was roused by the sound of
heavy crashing blows without, and going
to the window he saw, scattered about the
garden, the marble group of Ran and
Evangeline shattered to pieces.

Chapter VIII.

THE LOVERS.

Harold cast no backward glance to Mauvais's
house; lie walked straight from it
to the woods. Sometime during the night
he would redeem his promise to Margaret
Sylvester, and tell her all he knew of the
story of Clarice ; in the meantime he felt
the necessity of solitude and self-communing.


*' In a new world, and without a friend,"
he thought, '' I am commencing a new
life. Farewell to dreams ; I must work, as
other men do in the Silver Isle. Who
will accept the labour of my hands, in
return for food and shelter ? To pass my
days in indolence, and beg for food, would
be an added shame to the many that lie
heavy on my manhood. Who takes me asa
servant will have a sorry bargain. On

my word I have half a mind to go and offer
myself to the hunchback. There is humour
in the idea. Unless I am mistaken in him, he
would not turn me from his hut. If nothing
better offers, I will visit him in his mountain
home, after I have fulfilled my promise
to Margaret. Mauvais, a sword is hanging
over your head which, if you are vulnerable,
will make your soul bleed."

He sat upon the trunk of a tree whose
branches, bending over him, formed a
canopy through which he saw the clouds
sailing peacefully on. He lay and watched
them with tender, regretful spirit.

How sweet is the gathering twilight !
Resting here within this peaceful solitude,
T can realize how false has been the glare
and glitter of my days. Better far to have
been a woodman, with wife and children,
stirred by no other ambition than that
which is compassed by love and labour.
Let me dream of what might have been."

And so he lay and dreamed, and the
past took new shape and form. The
woman he loved was his ; he had rescued
her from the peril which threatened her,

VOL. III. N

and they lived a happy, impossible life, in
which all the best and purest of his young
ambitions and hopes were realized. What
brought Evangeline into his dreams ! She
was there, and took her share in the unreal
happiness upon which he fed, in defiance of
the stern reality which moved around his
dreams.

He was aroused by a murmur of voices,
which at first seemed part of his fancies.
The illusion passed, he opened his eyes.

Within a few yards of him stood two
beings, a man and a girl. He recognized
the girl instantly. Evangeline, most
beautiful and fair, lithe and graceful,
gazing with eyes of love upon her companion,
a manly young fellow in the garb
of a fisherman. They stood hand in hand,
and as they moved away the young man
passed his arm around her, and bent his
face to hers.

'' Theirs is the springtime," mused
Harold ; '' I must learn the truth."

Rising, he walked after them ; hearing
his steps, they turned and faced him.

Once more we meet," said Harold,

with a courteous salutation to Evangeline.
Do you not recognize me ? "

Evangeline did not reply. The vague
remembrance she had of him needed
stirring into life.

I perhaps know you," said the young
man, " although we have never met. Are
you Mauvais ? "

My name is Harold." He looked once
more in a questioning way at Evangeline.
Do you not remember ? I brought you to
the Silver Isle, and my last words to you
were, ' Princess of the Silver Isle, I kiss
your fairy fingers.' "

I remember you, but not clearly. You
came first to the isle with Ran and me."

*' It is so. You look upon me with
avoidance. Why ? "

I have heard something of what passed
between you and my mother."

"Not all?"

*' Joseph," said Evangeline, averting her
face from Harold ; " let us go."

Come, then." And Joseph held her
more closely to his side.

'' A moment, pray," said Harold softly ;
N 2

'' you have nothing to fear from me. I
must see her whom you call mother, for
her sake and yours."

For mine ! "

Yes, fair maid, for yours. Will you
conduct me to her ? I do not know her
house."

You can follow us," said Joseph ; " weare
on our way home."

I thank you. You bear a likeness to
Margaret Sylvester."

*' I am her son."

Harold gazed from Evangeline to Joseph,
and from Joseph to Evangeline, with so
much meaning in his eyes that the girl
blushed ; but in his manner there was no
offence ; it was at once tender and
solicitous.

May your lives be happy and peaceful !
I will follow you to Margaret Sylvester's
house."

They wended their way in silence ; even
between Evangeline and Joseph there
passed no word; the presence of the
stranger seemed to cast a cloud over their
young hearts.

Margaret Sylvester, seeing Harold approach
the house, ran out to meet him.

You have come ! " she cried.

'* I have come," he replied, " and the
seal is off my lips."

*' Enter, then," she said, with a beating
heart, and led the way into the house.

CHAPTER IX.

HAROLD FINDS HIMSELF AN OUTCAST ON THE
SILVER ISLE.

The story was told. "Without reservation,
but with a dehcacj which could not be
surpassed, Harold related all that he knew
of Clarice from the time of her betrayal.
Frequently was he stopped in his recital
by Margaret's tears and anguish, and his
heart was racked by the sight of her
suffering. He knew he could do nothing
to lessen it, and he did not attempt by a
word to exculpate Mauvais or himself
from the wrong which lay at their door ;
but, even in the midst of her own grief,
Margaret recognized that the man who
stood before her with downcast head and
eyes suffused with tears was more sinned
against than sinning. Nothing yet had
been said concerning Evangeline ; her

name lead not been uttered during: the
interview. Harold seemed to be waiting
for a cue from Margaret, and she did
not give it; her mind was occupied
only with the image of her beloved
Clarice.

There is still something more," she
said ; '' does my sister live ? "

'^ I cannot tell you," replied Harold,
seeing an opportunity of introducing Evangeline's
name. " A year after the departure
of Ran and Evangeline for the Silver
Isle—"

He purposely paused, and made no effort
to complete the sentence, and Margaret,
detecting a hidden meaning in his tone,
gazed at him with a new and suddenly-awakened
interest.

'' Yes, yes — go on."

A year after their departure your sister
suddenly disappeared."

You made an endeavour to find her !
You did not leave her to a worse fate than
had already befallen her ! "

I made every endeavour to discover
her ; for months I continued my inquiries

without success. I could learn nothing
of her; and I believe I am correct in affirming
that from that day Mauvais has never
beheld her."

Then she is dead ! " cried Margaret.
No hope remains ! Not in this world
shall I be able to obtain her forgiveness for
my cruel desertion of her."

Harold was silent ; he had no consolation
to offer. He waited till this paroxysm
of grief had passed away, and then he
said, —

You saw Evangeline when she first
arrived upon this isle, a child."

Yes ; and my heart was drawn to her.
I begged that she might be allowed to
enter my home as one of my family, and
the islanders consented to my so receiving
her."

A natural prompting ; you know that
Ran is not her father."

Ran himself informed me that she was
doubly orphaned."

Had you no suspicion — it is but conjecture
on my part ; but it is in my mind
as an impression impossible to efface —

that she might be as near to you in blood
as she is in affection ? "

*' Great Heaven ! " cried Margaret, understanding
what he wished to convey. " You
confirm my own suspicions ! Ah, if it be
true, then is EvangeHne doubly dear to me !
But the proof — the proof ! "

The proof is in her face ; by a hundred
signs not easy to describe, am I convinced
of it — as I was when I first saw hera
child, in the old land. I am unable to
assist you further; but there is one
who may help you — the hunchback, who,
in some strange way, appears to hold she
threads of this mystery in his hands."

I thank you — I thank you. Ran is
our true friend ; I honour and love him.
He bade me be patient and silent, and to
trust in him. I have been neither patient
nor silent. How was it possible, suffering
as I have been suffering ? At what are
you looking ?

She moved to Harold's side by the
window, through which he was looking
into the garden. By the soft light of the
moon they saw Evangeline and Joseph

Sylvester walking slowly to a wooden shed,
on the roof of wliicli some dove-cotes were
built. The young man's arm was round
the girl's waist, and she leant towards him
tenderly, confidingly, her head almost
touching his breast. A sweet and wistful
smile hovered about Margaret's lips.

"It is a joyful sign. They love each
other, and I shall have my sister's
child always with me. Heaven be
thanked ! " Already had she accepted it
as a fact ; Evangeline was hers, of her
blood, and would soon be bound to herby
even closer ties of love and kinship.
How wonderful are God's ways ! It
almost appears as if through all the years,
and amidst our deep unhappiness and
deeper wrong. He has been working to
this end. See ! Joseph is climbing the
ladder to the pigeon-house. Then a
message has come from Eanf ! Yes ; the
bird is in his hand, and he is descending
with it. I must go to them."

She was about to leave the room when
she turned to Harold, and said, holding
out her hand to him, —

I forgive you, and I believe in what
you have told me. It was not in your
power to help my beloved sister, or you
would have done so — I am sure you would
have done so."

"I would have laid down my life in
her cause," said Harold, in a low sweet
tone ; " you honour and comfort me by
allowing me to touch your hand."

'' When you leave here to-night,"
said Margaret, " do you go back to Mauvais
r^

"No," replied Harold; he had not told
her the personal particulars of his interview
with Mauvais, and she was not aware
that Harold had renounced his friendship.
No ; it may be that I shall never look
upon his face again ; it must be that he
and I shall never more clasp hands in
friendship."

'' You have quarrelled with him ? "

' I have broken with him for ever. Wh en
I learnt from his own lips — as I did for the
first time to-day — the true particulars of
the part he had played in your sister's life,
I bade him farewell."

Then you have no home ? "

*' Absolutely," said Harold, with a smile.
I shall have to-night to beg a shelter from
the sky."

No," said Margaret. " Stop with us
at least for a little while. I will explain
to my husband and children as much
as is necessary to ensure you an honest
welcome."

I accept with gratitude. It will do me
good to sleep for a night beneath your
roof."

With a motion expressive of gratification
at his acceptance of her hospitality,
Margaret hastened from the room into
the garden. Joseph and Evangeline were
walking towards the house, but seeing
Margaret, paused till she came up to them.

See, mother," said Joseph ; *' a message
from the mountains. Hold the bird while
I unloosen the paper. There ; the message
is to you, mother. Read it."

Margaret moved to a patch of moonlight,
and read, —

Ran to Margaret Sylvester : The time
has come. A great happiness is in store

for you. Last night, as you know, a ship
anchored in the bay. To-morrow, at sunset,
come you and your son Joseph to the
hut in the mountain, from which you will
see a flag flying. Let no one else accompany
you. 1 know that you have to-day
visited Mauvais. Believe nothing that
you have heard in that house ; for their
own purposes, and to gain their own ends,
those men will lie and lie ; but the more
subtle villain of the two is Harold — as I
shall prove to you tomorrow. Let no
person know what is in this paper, and bid
your family not to retire to rest to-morrow
night until you return from your visit
to the mountain. You will have that todo
upon your return, and that to see,
which will bring joy into your life — and a
more sacred joy into the life of Evangeline."


Margaret read this missive twice, the
first time in bewilderment, the second with
a clearer comprehension. The supreme
moment of her life appeared to be approaching,
the moment of which she had
dreamed, which she had yearned for.

hoped for, during all the 'years which had
intervened since she lost her sister, but the
issue of which was as completely hidden
from her as the mystery of death itself.
She accepted every word written by the
hunchback as sincerest truth ; there was
in her mind neither doubt nor desire to
question. '' You will have that to do upon
your return, and that to see, which will
bring joy into your life — and a more sacred
joy into the life of Evangeline." It would
be so; every action of the hunchback's
life proved that he would not utter what it
was not in his power to accomplish. She
looked up to the window of the room she
had left, and saw Harold standing therewith
a tender smile upon his lips. " The
more subtle villain of the two is Harold —
as I shall prove to you tomorrow."
Instinctively she drew Evangeline to her
side, and passed her arm around the girl,
as she would have done in the days gone
by around Clarice, to protect her from
evil. In the light of this startling revelation
Harold's face grew distorted in her
eyes ; the story he had told her sounded

in her ears as a mockery; he was utterly,
utterly false, and his very presence in her
house was a danger to those she loved.

Keep in the garden, Joseph," she said
hurriedly; "do not come in for a little
while."

She hastened into the house, and into
the room in which she had left Harold.
He advanced towards her with an expression
of quick sympathy, almost of love, in
his face. She pointed to the door.

Go ! " she said.

He caught his breath, and looked around
as though another voice than hers had
spoken.

Do you not hear me ? " she cried, her
pulses throbbing with indignant passion.
Go ! And never set foot within door
of mine again. You are a false and shameless
villain ! "

He became grave instantly, and moved
to the door. But before he left, he turned,
and with a gentle, pitying smile, said, —

It is useless to ask why you thrust me
from your house ? "

Quite useless," she replied, in her

sternest tone. '' I shall pray that I may
never look upon your face again ! "

He made no further attempt to obtain
an explanation, but passed from the room,
saying,—

May happiness attend you and yours
to the last days of your lives ! "

The next moment he was gone.

*' My words have come true," he said,
with a sad whimsical light in his eyes.
I shall have to beg shelter from the sky.
Be merciful, clouds, and do not weep as
you pass over my bed of leaves ! Let me
think — let me think ! I shall have time,
being alone now, quite alone, and without
a friend. And there is Eternity before me
time enough, indeed ! To whom am I
indebted for Margaret Sylvester's extraordinary
change of feeling ? Easily answered.
She received a message from
Eanf ; my name was doubtless mentioned
in it, and not in flattery. I noticed
Margaret's stern look as she stood in the
moonlight, and raised her eyes to the
window at which I was standing. Ran
is the friend I have to thank. I thank

you, friend. But you and I have not done
with each other ; the last page of the book
is not yet reached. Whence came that
tame white bird, with its false message
hidden under its wing ? From the
mountain, or from the hunchback's
fairy-house of wonders ? The latter is
the nearer; it may not be time lost to
wander in that direction. If Ran be
there, he shall give me satisfaction."

Towards Ran s new house Harold therefore
directed his steps, and sauntered listlessly
around its ring of wild flowers,
watching for a human sign.

I will not enter like a thief," he
thought ; " if I can convey to the hunchback's
ears that I am here, he will not
flinch from a meeting."

For an hour and more he lingered, and
noticed through the hedges which Ran
had formed that there were lights in some
of the windows of the house. At length
he fancied he heard the rustle of a dress,
and he called aloud, at a venture, —

Bertha Christof ! "

She stepped towards him, and replied,

VOL. III.

"Who calls?"

A friend. Let me speak with you ;
you have nothing to fear."

She approached with timid steps to
within arm's-length of him, and he saw
that his guess was correct when he called
her name.

Whom do you seek ? "

"Hans."

He is not here ; he is on the mountain."


*' Will it be difficult to find him ? "

You will see a flag flying over his
hut."

I will seek him there — but not tonight.
Do you remember my face, Bertha ?
I was in the court-house when Ran was
on his trial."

'' Yes; I remember j'^ou."

*' Bertha, this isle seems fatal to some.
It condemned you to a life of loneliness ;
so am I condemned."

Are you alone ? "

Utterly alone, and without a friend.
So, for better fortune, shake hands with

me."

Lie gave her hand, and lie held it in his
for a moment, or two.

And now, Bertha, I have a fancy.
Bring me a flower from the grave of your
child."

Wait — wait ! " she cried, and ran from
him, returning soon with a handful of
flowers, which he placed in his bosom.

I am not entirely forsaken," he murmured,
as he walked back into the woods,
and laid himself down to sleep.



CHAPTER X.

MARGARET RECEIVES THE RECORD OF HAROLD* S

GUILT.

"Mother," said Joseph, '' Ran's flag is
flying from^tlie mountain top. It is far
to go. You will scarcely have strength
to reach it."

You do not know, my dear, of what I
am capable. In the old world before your
father and I met — and even afterwards fora
time — I walked day after day, week after
week, month after month, and was seldom
more than healthfully fatigued. I have
more than a woman's strength, my dear ;
and were I weaker than I am, the purpose
for which we are now treading these strange
paths for the first time would not allow
me to break down."

You did not show me the message you
received from Eanf."

He desired me not to let any person
see what he wrote. You will soon know
all. Ran is wise, and has been working
for our happiness — for mine, and yours,
and Evangeline's."

For Evangeline's ! " repeated Joseph
Sylvester softly to himself, and his mother
smiled tenderly as she heard the loving
murmur.

*' You love Evangeline, my boy."

"Yes, mother."

'* We have seen the growth of this love,
my dear, and it has made us glad. We
knew that you would speak to us when
you deemed it right. And Evangeline
loves you, with a soul's pure love. It is
the sweetest thing, my boy. But for
your father's love, my life would have
been very dark. He met me in the days
of my despair, and brought light to my
heart."

You have seldom spoken of those old
days, mother — and never freely. I have
often been curious to hear. Sometimes I
have asked father to tell me of them, and
he has always replied, ' Your mother will

speak to you of them when the time
serves ; but never refer to them unless she
encourages you, for in doing so you will
bring to her the memory of a terrible
grief.' "

They have ever been tender of me ;
God will reward them."

*' He ' has rewarded them ; they are
happy, as I am. You have made us so,
mother."

It has not been a merit on one side,
dear; we have striven for each other.
That is the truest happiness. "When each
strives for each, when each thinks for each,
when each bears for each, then it is that
love's sweet labour produces the best
and brightest flowers. I have had both
love and sorrow in my days. During my
early girlhood I and your grandfather,
who died long before you were born, and
one who was very, very dear to me — my
sister Clarice, Joseph — travelled about the
small villages and towns of the world,
working for our living, sometimes not
knowing to-day where food was to come
from tomorrow. Our wandering life was

happy and beautiful, for love was with us.
and lightened our toil. Then my father
died, and being before his death misled
as to the character of a man who professed
to be our friend, left us to his guardianship
and his care, until we arrived at an
age when we should be able to protect ourselves
from the snares which surround the
innocent and pure in the world beyond the
seas. Joseph, at that time, my heart, my
life, my soul, was bound up in my sister
Clarice, and when she was torn from
me by treachery I felt as if hope and
sweetness had fled for ever from the
world. The errand we are on to-night
concerns this dear and cherished being;
a mystery is about to be unfolded,
and I both yearn and dread to meet it.
But Eanf's message should give me
courage."

They walked on in silence until Joseph
said, between his teeth, —

"Those who wronged you, mother — do
they live'*

If they did, and you knew them, what
would you do ?"

They should render an account to
me' cried the young man ; '' they should
not live to commit another wrong ! "

Heaven will punish them," said Margaret
solemnly. '* No evil deed is ever
committed without bringing in its train
its just reward. Think of the story connected
with this very mountain. The
crime, the suffering of a life-time, and
then in the end the Divine anger which
proclaimed that the sinner shall be judged
hereafter ! Joseph ! " she cried in terror,
what is that moving yonder ? *'

Joseph looked in the direction of Margaret's
outstretched arm. '* I see nothing,
mother. You have been frightened by a
shadow."

But, indeed, it was the form of a man
of which Margaret had caught a transient
glance — of a man weakened by fatigue and
hunger, who was creeping slowly and
wearily upwards. At the sound of Margaret's
voice, he dropped behind a jutting
rock, and remained concealed until they
were out of sight.

'upon my honour," he muttered, "I

never knew the value of food till now. It
is really necessary. I can sympathize with
the famished creatures I have met with
here and there in my way through life, and
have generally passed by without a thought.
Poor devils ! I am in the same plight as they
have been. If some witch were to offer
me a bone, I would throw myself on my
knees in gratitude. Or a bottle of wine !
That would be a more charitable gift. I
have nothing to offer in return except the
immortal part of myself, which, if I can
arrive at its worth from the knowledge of
the mortal part of myself, would not Be
reckoned a fair exchange for a meal.
Harold, you are beginning to see something
of life ; all that is past has been
comedy. This is grim tragedy. Well, it
would have been a pity if you had passed
away with what, I perceive now, has been
but a limited experience. How weak I
feel ! I shall think myself fortunate if I
reach the hunchback's gay flag with an
hour's life in me. You have trained badly,
Harold. Is it hunger that hurts you, my
man ? No, I swear it ! If I could regain

the esteem of a woman, I should be content
to yield mj life without a pang."

Margaret and Joseph continued their
upward way until they arrived at Ran's
hut, where the hunchback awaited them.

Welcome to my mountain home," he
said. " You look around in wonder. Well,
there are better — and worse. This supplies
all that I require, and it is enough for a man.
See — in the roof are my birds, and here
are goats that feed out of my hand. I am
content ; I have been able to do that upon
which my heart was set. But it is not to
talk of myself that I have asked you to
take this toilsome journey. Joseph, leave
us for awhile ; I wished you to accompany
your mother for her guidance and protection.
What she learns from me is her
secret, to be disclosed to others of her
will, not of mine. Remain without until
we call for you."

When Margaret and he were alone, Kans
said, " I have been setting my house in
order. For years I have worked to a
certain end, and to-night that end is
reached. Margaret Sylvester, of all the

inhabitants of the Silver Isle you were the

only one who, on my arrival here, appeared

to regard me as a human creature, imbued

with human feeling. On the first night of

our meeting you offered me the hospitality

of your house, and with your own hands

you made me up a bed. But it was not

that which won me ; it was your likeness

to a lady whom I met but once in the

old world, and that under the strangest

circumstances. I have no intention to

occupy your time with a narration of my

life and experiences ; I have written them

down in this packet, which I place now m

your hands on this understanding : You

will yourself read first what is herein

written, and then, at your discretion, you

will permit two other persons to read the

record — Evangeline and another whom

you will see before you sleep."

Another ! " said Margaret. " Whom ? "

*' You will know very soon ; it is

not in accordance with my purpose

to give you any other clue. I place

the seal of secrecy upon the three

persons to whom I have chosen to reveal

much of my outer and something of
my inner life, and I leave it to you to
decide whether you will keep or burn the
record after you have made yourself
acquainted with its contents. But its
fate and its revelations are of small consequence
in comparison with this Book
which I now place in your hands."

Margaret received the Book with trembling
hands. A flood of tears gushed from
her eyes, and with almost inarticulate cries
she pressed it to her lips, and kissed it
again and again.

'' My sister's Bible ! " she sobbed. " My
sister's Bible ! Oh, my sister ! my wronged,
my darling sister! It is as if you were
standing before me, as in the olden time,
and we were children again ! Clarice !
Clarice ! forgive me for my desertion
of you ! If I had known ! — if I had
known — ! "

Margaret Sylvester," said the hunchback,
in a tone as gentle as the tenderest-hearted
woman could have used, " no
human being has less cause for reproach
than yourself. But your sufferings will

soon be over ; and when in a few hours
you reflect that, in the hands of a mighty
mysterious Power, I have been the means
of restoring peace to your wounded heart,
understand that the only motive which
has urged me on, and which fortune has
so strangely favoured and helped to
success, is the love, the infinite love, that
I bear for Evangeline. When you read
my record, you will better understand the
meaning of the words I now utter. I
found the Bible in my mother's hut, but
it was by the merest accident — if you
please to call it so — that I discovered the
piteous Confession it cunningly concealed.
These sheets were hidden between its
pages. Do you recognize the writing ? "

"My sister's ! " cried Margaret, seizing
Eanf s hand, and kissing it. " Oh, blessed
chance that sent you to the Silver Isle ! "

There is more than chance in it. Ifc is
destiny — which has led to the events of
this night. In this hut, upon this lonely
mountain, untrodden for generations, until
to-day, by any human foot but mine, your
sister's Confession was discovered by me.

I said in my message to you yesternight
that I knew of your visit to Mauvais's
house. I knew more — I knew that both
Harold and Mauvais received you there.
I am in ignorance of what passed between
you, nor do I wish to be informed. It will
not help us. As I have already said, I
have worked to my end, and it is accomplished.
But I said in the message conveyed
by my white dove that, of the two,
Harold was the more subtle villain, and
that I would prove it to you by the words
of your beloved sister. The proof is in
your hand. It is my desire that you read
her Confession before you depart from this
hut to your happier home in the valley."

He sat a little apart from her whilst
she read, and with a keen observant eye
watched the varying emotions which her
face betrayed. Sobs, infinite compassion,
terrible indignation, all were there ; and
often she was so overcome and so blinded
by her tears that for minutes she could
not proceed. She heard every word she
read; her sister's voice accompanied the
written Confession of a heart's agony, and

when at length the end was reached, she
raised her white face to the sympathizing
face of Eanf, and whispered, —

The child ! What became of my sister's
child ? "

"If Nature does not lie," replied the
hunchback, '' and if all proof and circumstance
are not miraculously at fault, your
sister's child lives in Evangeline."

Oh, thou gracious Grod ! " cried Margaret,
sinking on her knees, and clasping
her sister's Bible to her bosom ; "I thank
Thee for Thy wondrous mercy ! "

With head bowed down to her breast;
with her lips pressed to the blessed Book,
she remained for some time in silent prayer,
and Ran did not disturb her.

She rose to her feet.

That is all," said the hunchback.
Hasten your steps home, and the moment
you reach it, you and all who are dear to
you, proceed without delay to the house
I have built, over the portal of which in
golden letters is inscribed the word, ' Chry-
santos.' Do as I bid you, implicitly, and
without question. You will obey me ? "

Yes. I should not deserve to live if I
hesitated."

You know now who it is who betrayed
your sister. But for the evidence you
hold in your hands, you might have found
it difficult to believe that there existed on
earth so plausible and smooth-tongued a
villain. But the past is past. Let it die.
A happy future is before you and yours."

I must tell you," said Margaret.
Evangeline and Joseph are lovers."

I know it. Go quickly. If you knew
what I could tell you, you would not linger
a moment."

'' Will you not come with us ? "

No. I have work to do here. Goodnight."


Good-night, dearest friend. How can
I thank you ? "

Before he was aware of her intention,
she pressed him in her arms, and kissed
him on the lips. Then she and Joseph
took their departure. He watched them
as they descended the mountain, and then,
with his hand upon his mouth and eyes,
re-entered his hut.

CHAPTER XI.

HAROLD AND Mauvais VISIT THE HUNCHBACK.

For some time he remained in contemplation,
mentally reviewing the events of
the years which had elapsed since his
return to his mother's hut in Mauvais's
forest, where he had found the dead
woman and the sleeping child lying side
by side.

With my mother, as I thought,"
mused he, *' died certain evidence connected
with Evangeline which would never be
brought to light. But another lives to
supply it, and she is in the valley, waiting.
Something still remains to do — to bring to
Mauvais and Harold the knowledge of each
other's treachery ; when that is accomplished,
my labours are at an end. By
their own hands, or by the hands of the

VOL. III. p

judges of this isle, shall justice be dealt out
to them. My work in life seems already to
be over, and all that is left to me is to sit
and watch the happiness of those I love,
and who hold me, I believe, in something
more than common regard. Evangeline
and Joseph Sylvester will marry ; he has a
strong arm and a stout heart, and will be
able to guard his treasure from evil. My
tender flower ! You will never know what
I owe you, for none but I can realize the
dark depths into which my soul was
plunged when, in the presence of death,
you opened your eyes and smiled upon me.
That smile was like the bursting of a star
within my heart, and the light it shed upon
the dark and weary path I was treading
shines clearly now. Yes, they will marry,
and will pass their lives in the house I have
built for them in the Valley of Lilies ; and
by-and-by, perhaps, I shall hold a chit
within these arms — Evangeline's child !
And it will be taught to lisp my name in
accents of affection. Eternal wonder of
Nature ! To what end are you working in
the ages yet to come, through life that is

ever sweet and love that is ever new ! For
my life and for myself I thank yon, wise
mother of the world. You have given mea
rich reward for my early years of misery.
I am grateful. Shall I repine that a child
of my blood has never wound its arms
about my neck, and that my lips have
never given or received a lover's kiss ?
No; let me rather rejoice that no being
lives to bear my shape, and that my days
have not been productive of evil."

At this point of his musings Ran
fancied he heard a sound without, and,
going to the door of his hut, he threw it
open. There was no moon, and there
would be none, for a couple of hours ;
darkness was falling upon the mountain.

"It is well," muttered Eanf, " that
Margaret Sylvester has Joseph with her ;
they will reach the valleys in safety, and I
shall know by the lighting up of my house,
Chrysanthos,' whether all is well. That
will not be till midnight."

From where he stood he faced the Yalley
of Lilies, but he could not distinguish his
house through the gathering darkness.

p 2

Mentally he followed the footsteps of
Margaret and Joseph.

They are now at the second hut," he

muttered; " there is no danger on the road."

*****

But lower down the mountain the mists
had gathered more thickly, and lingered in
the middle distance. Margaret and Joseph,
hand clasped in hand, slowly pursued their
way ; they reached the second hut in
safety, and half an hour afterwards, Joseph
said, —

In less than an hour we shall be home."
His heart glowed with love ; although his
mother was by his side, it was only of
Evangeline he thought. As he spoke, the
form of a man ascending the mountain
brushed past them. Margaret uttered an
exclamation of alarm.

"Who goes there?" was asked, in a
man's voice.

Hush ! " whispered Margaret ; " I
know that voice ; do not answer it."

But again the question was asked,
Who goes there ? Speak, or my sword
shall compel you."

o

Peaceable inhabitants of the isle'' replied
Joseph, *who are not to be frightened
by threats. Who are you that question so
insolently?"

It is Mauvais," whispered Margaret.

The man caught the whisper. " You
are right, whoever you may be," said
Mauvais; 'rand you can go your way in
peace. Come you from the hunchback's
hut ? "

Yes."

"I was told no mortal but he dare
ascend this cursed mount."

'rit is the first time we ever set foot
upon it."

- " It is the same with me ; and shall bethe
last. He is at home, then, this crooked
wonder? "

You will find him in his hut at the top
of the mountain," said Joseph.

Joseph," cried Margaret, in terror,
"what have you done? That man is
Ran's enemy ! "

Ah, mistress, I recognize your voice,"
said Mauvais ; " it is true I am Eanf's
enemy. But if you think he is in any

secret danger from me, you are mistaken.
What is done between us will be done
openly. The hunchback can take care of
himself."

"Aye," said Joseph. " Eanf is a match
for more than one. It is better to be his
friend than his enemy. If your errand
is not peaceable, I should advise you to
retrace your steps."

Is the road upward passably safe ? "

There is a fair track to the top, made
by Ran, the work of many years; but
care is needed."

Mistress," said Mauvais, '' did Harold
visit you ?"

He did."

And you are ready to worship him asa
model of excellence and virtue ? "

You are villains, both of you," replied
Margaret, with indignation; "your
presence in this isle is a blot upon the
land."

You wrong the man who was once my
friend," said Mauvais gently; "he is
worthy both of friendship and love. It
has never been my fate to meet with a

gentleman more deserving of trust and
confidence. Good-night."

But neither Margaret nor Josepli returned
the salutation, andMauvain pursued

his lonely way.

*****

Ran once more fancied he heard the
sound of a man's voice ; it was faint and
indistinct, but upon listening intently it
came to his ears more clearly, and it was
his own name he seemed to hear.

'^Hanf! Ran!"

He walked downwards in the direction
of the sound, and cried, " Is it mortal or
spirit who calls my name?"

"In honest faith," was the answer, " at
this moment it is mortal ; but if you are
not quick, I shall lose my hold on earth,
literally and spiritually."

Every foot of the mountain was familiar
to the hunchback, and he knew that the
voice proceeded from one of the most
dangerous passes. He needed no light to
guide him, and in a few moments he was
on his knees by the side of a precipice over
which the body of a man was hanging in

the most perilous position. The man had
caught hold of the thin twisted roots of a
slender tree, which by good fortune had
been laid bare by the rains, but his hold
was growing weaker, and his desperate
grasp and endeavours to raise himself had
loosened the earth about the young roots
to such an extent that, if he had been left
to himself, his fate would have been speedy
and certain. Ran peered into the man's
face.

*' Harold the sculptor ! "

Eanf the hunchback ! "

Ran spoke with a frown ; Harold, in
almost a blithe tone.

"Beg your life ! " cried Ran.

I do, most humbly," said Harold, with
a faint laugh.

But before Ran made this demand, his
arm was around the sinking man.

"Gently, gently," said Harold; "I am
hurt. Ah ! it is well. Take care ; do
not tear my vest; there are memorials
here in the shape of flowers — flowers
from the grave — Oh, God, I thank
thee ! "

And being safe upon solid earth, Harold
swooned away.

Ran did not pause to decide upon his
course of action. He raised the insensible
body, and bore it to his hut, where he laid
it upon his bed.

Not dead," he muttered, as he placed
his hand upon Harold's heart. " What
are these ? Flowers, as he said, and not
quite withered. From whose grave ? "

Harold opened his eyes, and for a little
while the men gazed at each other in
silence. Then Harold said faintly, —

"HI had been told that I should ever
have owed my life to you, my friend and
foe, I should have laughed in the speaker's
face. I so thoroughly hate and despise
you that the obligation you have laid
me under is somewhat of a bitter joke.
Give me my flowers, Ran. A short time
since I was beginning to admire you ;
better than that, I was beginning, as I
believed, to do you justice. But I have discovered
that a deformed man is not necessarily
a noble and exemplary being, and
where once I despised, now I abhor you."

I would not have it otherwise," said
E-anf.

To rob a man," continued Harold, "at
a critical crisis in his life of the respect
and sympathy of a good woman — to do
so by slander — is the work of a coward —
and you are one ! It was to tell you this
that I determined to beard you in your
den. Such as you deserve no better
lodgment. In the dark, missing the path,
I slipped, and found myself hanging
between earth and — well, that point is
yet to be made clear to my comprehension.
Have you any food in your hut ? "

I have."

'' Give me some, and I will pay for it in
my heart's blood, or yours. I am at the
present moment so weak and famished that
if you were to press your fingers on my
throat I should not have strength to resist
an abrupt introduction into another world.
I have not tasted food since yesterday
morning. Without being much of an
arithmetician, I should say I have a thirty-six
hours' hunger upon me ; and as you
may guess, hunchback, I have, hitherto

lived upon the fat of the land, and have
never known want — wliicli makes my case
worse than that of a poor wretch who is
used to starvation. Then, I am hurt; my
left arm is terribly gashed. Nay, let it
alone ; it will not be improved by your
nursing. Give me food, coward and
slanderer ! "

Eanf placed food upon the table, and
two bottles of wine, and Harold rose
without assistance, and pouring into a
wooden measure full half of a bottle,
drank it in one long, deep, satisfying
draught. Setting down the measure, he*
partook of the food, justifying his plea of
hunger by the eagerness with which he ate.

I am strong again," he said ; " I retract
a word I have twice applied to you. Ran,
you are no coward — but you must have
within your breast the heart of a fiend.
As I was toiling up this mountain there
passed by me a man and a woman. They
almost discovered me, but I succeeded in
keeping myself from their sight. Have
they been here ? "

- Yes."

'* It will not interest me to learn upon
what errand — but it must have been a
momentous one that a woman should be
impelled to undertake such a journey."

Truly the mountain is growing in
repute," said Kans ; 'this is a memorable
day in its history. You have promised to
pay for the food you have eaten in your
heart's blood, or mine. The payment will
be sufficient ; I shall exact it."

Nothing will please me better. But
you are unarmed ; I have my sword, as
you see."

Ran produced two rapiers, and placed
them on the table. " The moon is rising,"
lie said ; "it will be light soon upon the
mountain, and we shall find a piece of level
ground without — an altar upon which you
shall meet with justice. God has sent you
here to meet it, and on this night, at this
hour, of all nights and hours in our lives.
I would not change shapes with you for
the wealth of the stars. You are not
worth even a hunchback's hate."

'' It may be as you say," said Harold
thoughtfully, '' and that this hour may be

my last. For my part, I am weary of life,
and shall yield it up not unwillingly. But
before we cross swords — I lead no idea,
Eanf, that you were skilled in fence, but
you are admirable in everything, it seems —
I would have something made plain to me.
It will be light enough outside for our
purpose, but light is required here " — he
touched his breast. *' Yesterday it was in
my power to bring relief to the heart of a
suffering woman."

Use names," said Ran sternly ; "" the
time is past for subterfuge."

Not before yesterday was I mad
acquainted with the true particulars of
the story of Margaret and Clarice ; I learnt
them in an interview with Mauvais, and,
renouncing his friendship — I have touched
you, I perceive; you are but a clumsy
wizard, after all — I went at once to
Margaret Sylvester, and revealed to her
all that I had learned. For my innocent
share in Clarice's sad story — "

Innocent share ! " exclaimed Ran, with
deepest scorn; *you proclaim that to me,
who but an hour ago gave that wronged.

unhappy woman's confession into the
hands of her sister ! "

"For mj innocent share," repeated
Harold, " in that sad story, I do not hold
myself blameless ; I am guilty, and deserve
punishment and condemnation, but not at
your hands, hunchback — at the hands of a
higher Power. Yet have I done no wrong,
and had I known what I have lately learnt,
I would have shed my best blood in
Clarice's service. Never was man more
repentant, never was man more heart-stricken
than I when, won to Margaret
Sylvester's side by her saintly devotion
and courage, I went to her house,
and related to her all that I knew. Will
it help you to an understanding of my
feelings if I tell you that I loved Clarice
with a most earnest love, and that if I
had not been misled and deceived by my
friend, her life might have been happy and
honoured ? Take it for what you deem it
worth' — it is the truth. Then, when Margaret
Sylvester, judging me by an inward
light, and believing in my sympathy and
my sorrow, held out to me the hand of

forgiveness — when, knowing I had no roof
to cover me, no son to speak to in all the
length and breadth of this Silver Isle, she
begged me to accept — Heaven bless her
for it ! — the hospitality of her home — you,
by a slanderous message, destroyed my
hope, and robbed me of the sweetest comfort
that was ever offered to the heart of
an unhappy man. What was in your
message concerning me ? "

*' I told her that I knew she had visited
Mauvais ; I warned her to believe not a
word she heard from your lips or from
Mauvais' s ; I said that for your own-purposes
you would lie and lie, and that
of the two you were the more subtle
villain — as I should prove to her by the
written testimony of her own sister."

I can understand now why she turned
me from her house. But if you have
done me a wrong and come to the knowledge
of it, you would right me."

You, or any man."

Have you proved to Margaret Sylvester
what you promised ? "

I have proved it to her this very

night. She departed from this hut with
the proofs of your villainy in her possessions'*


'* Ran, you are mad — or dreaming."
Ran smiled scornfully. " There is here a
deeper mystery than any I have encountered.
It must not remain so. My honours
at stake. Deal with me fairly, as man toman.
Cast aside for a little while all suspicion
of me, and assist me to probe the
heart of this mystery. I met Clarice first
by accident, in Mauvais's company, on the
night on which she and Margaret were
treacherously separated. From that night
I saw neither her nor Mauvais for two
years, and when we met again she and
Mauvais were together. I saw that Clarice
was unhappy — that she had a secret grief,
and at times I urged her, out of the deep
respect and sympathy I had for her — out
of the deep love I bore her, but of which I
never insulted her by speaking — to confide
in me. Honestly I desired to help her ; but
she kept her heart closed, saying sometimes
that of all men in the world I was the
man she would have chosen to confide in, had

not her faith and trust in human nature been
irretrievably shattered. Farther than that
I never went ; nor did she. To the last day
I beheld her I treated her with such tenderness
and respect as I would have treated
an honoured sister. Now, what grounds
have you for slandering me, and for bringing
her name in injurious connection with
mine ? "

Did Mauvais have another friend of
the name of Harold ? *'

'' None other."

Had you a friend bearing your
name ?"

"No."

The testimony which convicts you is
written by Clarice herself in a Bible given
to her by her father ; that Bible is now in
Margaret Sylvester's hands. It is in the
form of a diary, written by Clarice from
day to day, in which she describes the
manner in which she was wooed and betrayed.
That record is one of incredible
baseness, and the name of her lover and
betrayer is freely used. The name is
Harold — and you are he ! "

VOL. III. Q

As there is a heaven above us, and a
God around us," cried Harold, '* whatever
name is there written, it is not I ! Do
you know the truth when you hear it, oris
your mind as crooked as your body ?
Again I repeat, I treated Clarice as an
honoured sister. Except in believing what
Mauvais told me of her, I never wronged
the suffering girl in thought or deed ! "

Ran gazed steadily at Harold, who met
his gaze unflinchingly.

'' If what you say is true*' said Ran,
you have been grievously slandered — but
not by me, nor by Clarice. Search your
mind for a clue."

I can find none."

Absolutely none ? "

Absolutely none."

A singular smile crossed Ran's lips, and
he inclined his head to the door. " Do
you hear nothing ? "

Nothing."

My ears have been more keenly trained
to sound than yours. There are steps
upon the mountain — listen now ; they are
approaching, nearer — nearer." He threw

open the door ; the mountain was bathed
in moonlight — and coming np the path
was a man whose face was set towards the
hut. '' You should know him," said
Eanf.

*' It is MaUYain," said Harold, almost ina
whisper.

It is Mauvais," replied Ran. '' Can
you not find a clue in your mind to this
false use of your name ? if it be false, as
you may soon discover. Is it not possible
that Clarice's lover for some time concealed
his own name, and wooed her in
the name of an absent friend ? The deception
could not be kept up for ever, and
when it was confessed, it neither lessened
nor added to her shame. Say that this is
possible — what near friend would occur to
your mind as likely to use you for his
purpose ? "

'' Mauvais ! " cried Harold.

Aye, Mauvais," said Ran.

And at that moment Mauvais came
straight through the moonlight, and stood
upon the threshold of the hut.

Q 2

CHAPTER XII.

THE CHALLENGE.

"Welcome," said Eanf, with a bright
glitter in his eyes. " Had you timed your
visit with mathematical precision it
could lot have been more opportune.
I never hoped for the honour of receiving
Mauvais beneath roof of mine ; this
is a night in my life not to be forgotten*'


Mauvais did not immediately speak ;
the presence of Harold surprised him,
and he looked from one to the other in
irresolution and doubt. Harold said no
word, but kept his eyes fixed upon Mauvais'
s face, with a stern and thoughtful
meaning.

Eanf continued : '^ Have you come to
bring me news from the old world ? I
left so many friends there, who are doubtless

anxious for my welfare ! It is long
since we met, Mauvais ; yon have aged.
I miss a certain brightness in you ; hearing
footsteps on the mount, I observed that
they lacked elasticity and lightness ; and,
indeed, your whole manner is wanting in
gaiety. Without doubt your journey must
have fatigued you, but you have certainly
aged ; your time is coming ! Mauvais,
there is wine ; I have drunk at your expense
; drink now at mine. No ? Well, I
confess it is presumptuous in me to expect
the condescension. To business, then.
What brings you here ? "

I am here," said Mauvais deliberately,
'* to punish a knave for presumption, and
to teach him that it is dangerous to use
the name of his betters as freely as I
have reason to suppose you have used
mine."

There are more ways than one of
using names," retorted Ran, " as you may
presently learn."

Were you what you once were," said
Mauvais, '' a serf and dependent of mine,
I would have you whipped."

As you have had others, standing by
the while to enjoy the torture and the
degradation of what was possibly a higher
nature than you own. Such enjoyment
cannot now be yours; we are in a free
land. How, then, do you propose to
punish my presumption ? By physical
or moral force ? In either case, Mauvais,
you would find yourself at a disadvantage."


I cannot lift you to my level ; I
descend to yours. You have rapiers on
the table. I commence my lesson thus."
He raised his jewelled cane, and was
advancing towards Eanf when Harold
interposed.

This quarrel is mine, Mauvais ; you
must first give me satisfaction."

Mauvais recoiled, and his cane dropped
to the ground.

I thought, Harold, we had settled our
affairs."

So thought I ; but within this last hour
I have had cause to believe that you have
fixed a deeper wrong upon me than any I
have endured."

'* Within this last hour ! Then you have
heard it from the lips of that knave ! "

It is through Ran I have learnt it."

"And you would set his word against
mine, Harold ! "

No. Am I free to speak, Ran ? "

'' Entirely free. It is your honour that
is at stake, not mine."

'' If I find you have deceived me, your
life shall answer for it."

This is no time for threat or boast.
Settle first with him. He will neither lie
nor equivocate ; if he does either, I have a
witness in the valley below" — he looked
out of the door, which was open; the
mists were rolling away, and the moonlight
shone over the lovely plains — '' I have
a witness in the valley below who will
bring his shame and his guilt home to
him."

You are in league, I perceive," said
Mauvais haughtily. '' What deeper wrong
than any you have advanced have I done
you ? "

If what I suspect is true," said Harold,
you have used my friendship for a base

and shameful purpose. Once more I recall
the name of Clarice. You know in
what esteem I held her. You know I
loved her, and how, by means of your own
calumnious words with respect to her,
I lost my faith in woman's purity. Was
it necessary that you should be guilty of
a double betrayal? Was it necessary to
your purpose . that you should woo an
innocent, trusting, helpless girl, and bring
her to shame, in the name of a friend, concealing
your own because you were fearful
of using it ? *'

A deadly pallor crept over Mauvais's
face.

*' Learn something more," said Ran to
Harold; "in that friend's name a ceremony
was performed which Clarice believed
was an honourable marriage. It
was a trick, worthy of what had gone
before."

Harold's lips quivered at this new
testimony, and his face grew as white as
Mauvais's.

I await your answer," he said. '' Did
you thus use my name, and conceal your

own ? You will not speak ? By Heaven
you shall ! "

Mauvais raised his hand gently.

There is no need for violent words,
Harold," he said in a low, soft voice.
What I did was done with no intent to
injure you."

Jesuit ! " cried Harold. " I will have
an answer straight to the point ! Did you
woo Clarice, and go through a false marriage
with her, in my name ? Answer, as
you are a gentleman — yes or no ! "

'eyes."

Harold covered his face with his hand's,
as though to shut out the consciousness of
villany so base. For a minute or two
there was silence. Then Harold rose, and
saying sternly, *' There remains but this,"
took one of the rapiers from the table, and
pointed outside. " Eanf, you will conduct
us to your plot of level ground — your altar
of justice. Come," he said to Mauvais,
there is no question of inequality between
us."

But Mauvais did not stir. '* I cannot
fight with you, Harold," he said tenderly.

You must ! There is no escape for
you or me. It is the last night on earth
for one."

Mauvais looked at him with wistful,
imploring eyes.

Harold ! "

"You hesitate still! Coward!" And
with his open hand, Harold struck Mauvais
full in the face.

CHAPTER XIII.

THE DUEL ON THE MOUNT.

The hunchback conducted them to the
extreme summit of the snow mountain,
which from the plains assumed the appearance
of a sharp peak; but in reality its
surface was a level piece of table-land of
about twenty yards in circumference
The area was small, but sufficient for
the purpose of the combatants, who were
aware that for one of them at least life's
minutes were numbered. The eastern
edge of this plot of land defined the
boundary-line between earth and air ;
eternity lay a hair's-breath beyond it.
The outer rocks which faced the sea were
there, and a false step would be fatal to
him who took it. Ran pointed out the
danger, to which neither Mauvais nor
Harold attended. Face to face they stood,

holding their naked rapiers, at the points
of which death was waiting. But few
words passed between these enemies, who
once were friends.

This must be, Harold ? " asked Mauvais.


It must be," replied Harold.

With the full consciousness that only
one of the two would depart from that
spot alive, Mauvais simply acted on the
defensive ; the blades crossed and clashed,
bat Mauvais contented himself with parrying
Harold's thrusts. Thus, the combat
was one-sided, and in the natural order of
things — Harold being a skilful swordsman
could have but one result. It was
not long in declaring itself. Harold's
rapier found its way to Mauvais' s heart,
and Mauvais staggered and fell to the
earth. Harold was instantly by his side,
striving to stop the blood which was
gushing from the wound.

It is useless, Harold," said Mauvais,
with a tender smile; 'you have killed me.
I thank God that I die by the hand of a
gentleman ! "

The mists had rolled away from the
mountain, and the Silver Isle lay in radiant
beauty beneath them. Mauvais beckoned
to Eanf.

I am not acquainted," he said, pressing
his hand to his side, '' with the laws of
the isle respecting encounters such as this.
It may be that Harold will be called upon
to answer for my death, if the particulars
of the duel come to the knowledge of the
islanders. There is no need to enlighten
them. You are a clever knave; invent
some story which will divert suspicion
from my friend, who, out of a singular,
quixotism, has brought me to this pass."

Have you any message," asked Ran,
glancing to the Valley of Lilies, " for
Clarice ? "

For Clarice ! " exclaimed Mauvais,
faintly. His voice came and went, and it
was with difficulty he spoke. " You jest ! "

** Or for your child ? "

'* My child ! " Surprise gave Mauvais
strength, and he partially raised himself,
and gazed in bewilderment at the hunchback.
" There is no child. She is dead."

o

She lives," said Ran, " as Clarice
does."

Chalices child ! " gasped Mauvais. '' Is
this man mocking me, Harold ? "

He speaks Heaven's truth, Mauvais,
as I solemnly believe. But what he
knows of Clarice is beyond my comprehension."


'look below," said Ran to Harold,
pointing to the Yalley of Lilies ; '' if your
sight is good, you can distinguish the outlines
of my house — no longer mine, but
Evangeline's. I had it so built that from
this height it should be within view. See
every window of the house is lighted upas
I directed. At this moment, two sisters
are meeting, each of whom believed the
other dead — two sisters cruelly torn from
each other's arms in their youth. Clarice
and Margaret are reunited, nevermore, I
trust, to be separated on earth. Do you
understand me, Mauvais ? "

I understand you, dimly — go on — I
have still a few moments' life in me ! Is
this reunion your work ? "

"It is my work. When j&rst, by your

help, I brought your daughter, Evangeline,
to the Silver Isle — "

My daughter ! Evangeline ! You have
a fine sense of humour, hunchback ; but
you cannot fasten upon me, by any art of
yours, a child so hideous. I see your
marble image of her now, Harold, and
that of this deformed villain, bending over
the water in the basin ! It will not do,
hunchback. Hold me a moment, Harold ;
I am fainting ! I want to live to hear
the end of this clever knave's monstrous
invention."

From a flask which Ran handed to him,
Harold touched the lips of Mauvais and
bathed his forehead, and presently the
dying man opened his eyes.

I remember what has passed, Harold ;
let me hear the rest quickly."

'' I deceived you, Mauvais," said Harold ;
Evangeline is the most beautiful maiden
on the Silver Isle. It was chiefly for this
reason that I wished to destroy the group
I cut for you."

Why did you deceive me ? "

I loved Clarice, and, suspecting the

truth when I first beheld the child you
believed to be Ran's, I welcomed the
opportunity you unconsciously offered to
her of growing to womanhood surrounded
by more innocent and peaceful influences
than those among which we moved."

*' So — we are quits, then — you deceived
me, as I deceived you. And the child
lives, — and is beautiful! She could not
be otherwise. I thank you, friend. See
how easily I forgive you for your deceit,
Harold ; forgive me for mine ! "

'* I no longer bear resentment, Mauvais ;
I forgive you."

You remove a weight from my heart,
Harold. Hunchback, if you are not speedy
with your tale, I shall have to learn it for
myself in the world of spirits."

"When, by your help," said Ran, ''I
brought your daughter, Evangeline, to the
Silver Isle, and placed her in the care of
her mother's sister, Margaret Sylvester, I
(not knowing the truth at the time)
had no expectation or hope that such a
happy ending would be reached as we
have reached this night."

Mine, for odg," said Mauvais, with
a grim, faint laugh ; *' you phrase well,
hunchback."

'' But chance placed in my hands the
clue to a mystery which I determined, if
possible, to solve, and Nature gave me the
means to compass my desire. Such wealth
is mine, Mauvais, which you have never
dreamed of, and by its aid agents have
been working for me in the old land,
leading to the discovery of Clarice, who
was brought to the isle two days since, and
is now with her sister Margaret and her
child, Evangeline, in the house I built for
them in the Yalley of Lilies. There is no
more to tell."

"And no time to tell it," said Mauvais,
his voice growing fainter and fainter.
'' Harold, when you see Clarice, say that I
am dead, ard ask her to think kindly of
me if she can. And for my child — what
can I have to say to her ? She owes me
nothing that I would wish her to repay.
She is beautiful, you tell me, Harold — so
was Clarice, the fairest and moat beautiful !
Hunchback, you have won the game;

VOL. III. B

Evangeline will hold you in kinder remembrance
than she will the man who betrayed
— that is the word, is it not ? — her
mother. . . . There is a strange haze
over the sky. . . . Harold, give me your
hand."

It is in yours, Mauvais," said Harold,
lowering: his head so that he mio^ht catch
Mauvais' s last words.

I noticed that your left arm was hurt,
Harold — does it pain you ? "

Not much, Mauvais."

*' You were right when you said that our
life on the isle was likely to be attended
with excitement and amusement This
blood chokes me. I really believe, if
Clarice were here, that I should ask her to
kiss me. I should like to see Evangeline,
too What a trick you played
me ! It is growing dark, is it not ? . . . .
Do you know, Harold, that there is not a
being on earth I cling to as I cling to you
for I love you — in my way ! Nothing
very desirable, but ifc is so. When you left
me yesterday morning, I felt as if the best
part of my life had gone from me

Harold, who is it who stands before me,
looking downwards to the valley?"

"It is Ran."

"He stands between me and the liofht.
Go to his side, and tell me if you can seethe
house which contains Clarice and
Margaret and my — my daughter, Evangeline.
Go — quickly ! "

Harold obeyed him, and moved to Ran 's
side. He was gone for but a moment —
and when he set his face towards the spot
upon which his friend had been lying,
Mauvais had disappeared !

Ran ! " cried Harold.

The hunchback turned, and divined
what had occurred. He leant over the
eastern edge of the peak, and saw the
lifeless body of Mauvais falling from rock
to rock.

Farewell, Mauvais," he murmured.
So ends the comedy of your life."

Harold shuddered as he gazed upon
the snow, stained with Mauvais' s lifeblood.


Heaven have mercy upon him," he
said, "and upon me ! "

E 2

Fascinated by the stains of blood and
by the events of the night, he stood for
many minutes in silence, until Ran gently
touched his arm.

Come," said Ran.

Where ? " asked Harold.

"To my hut. Did you not say that I
had robbed you of the sweetest comfort
that was ever offered to the heart of an unhappy
man? I would restore it to you."

Ah, true. You robbed me of Margaret
Sylvester's esteem. Yet I cannot go to
her to vindicate myself, for I have a duty
here to perform which must be done
to-night, at all hazards."

"What duty?"

Do you think that I shall allow Mauvais's
body to lie unburied on the beach
below ? It would weigh as a sin upon my
soul through all my days."

How do you propose to reach the
beach''

I shall find a way."

Certain death is yours, if you afctemptit.''

That will not deter me," said Harold
scornfully. " I know what it is right fora
man to do."

Only one man in the isle can show you
the way to its accomplishment."

That man is yourself. I am prepared
for your answer."

You are right. That man is myself.
Sculptor Harold, from whose grave did you
obtain those flowers in your breast, of
which you are so tender ? "

From the grave of Bertha's child. I
went last night to your house in the valley,
on the chance of finding you there, and
compelling you to do me justice in Margaret
Sylvester's eyes. I did not enter,
but waited until I heard a human sound.
I saw Bertha, and spoke with her. She
told me you were here. Before I left her
I asked her for these flowers, as a kind
of comfort to me on my way. She gave
them to me, willingly. Nay, more; she
gave me her hand, and I held it in mine.
You see, Kans, I was not entirely forsaken."

I have done you great wrong. Will
you take my hand ? ''

Willingly. The wrong you did was
unintentional. From this moment we are
friends."

'' It is said, and sealed." The two men

grasped each other firmly by the hand. " I
will help you to your wish. I know a way
down the mountain, and I will show you a
cave of wonders, a cave paved with golden
sand, by means of which I have been
enabled to restore Clarice to her sister's
arms*'

Nothing will surprise me, Ran . I am
curious to know why you choose to remain
here, alone, instead of being present at the
meeting of the sisters."

I should have been but a clog on their
happiness. It would have been as if I said,
Here am I here who have accomplished
this wonder; pay me tribute.' It would
have been a shock to Clarice, who has seen
me but once (you seem to forget what
kind of man I am to the outward eye),
and who would not have understood. No.
Such a meeting is sacred; heart must
speak to heart, soul to soul. It would
have been the very essence of selfishness
had I intruded myself."

You speak like a man — no, rather like
a woman, for you have a woman's delicacy.
Eanf, is it low tide ? '*

"Yes," replied Ran, knowing the
thought that prompted the question.
But first, come with me to my hut. I
have to send a message to Margaret
Sylvester, "

You are a magician."

Because of my white doves ? Think,
rather, that they are heaven's messengers.
I have two in my hut which have been
trained to fly between the mount and my
house in the valley. Bertha, who is ever
on the alert — no more grateful woman
ever drew Nature's breath — will receive it,
and carry it to the sisters, and thus you
will hold this night a place in their perfect
happiness."

The message which Ran wrote, and
tied under the pigeon's wing, ran thus :

From Eanf to Margaret Sylvester :

** You know already from the lips of
your sister Clarice that an unintentional
wrong has been done to Harold the
sculptor. You know that Mauvais was
the man who wronged her. Harold is
with me now, and Mauvais will never
trouble you more. Harold and I are

friends till death. I have asked his
pardon for the wrong I did him, in
causing you to withdraw your sympathy
and friendship from him. I honour and
love him. You will do so when you know
him as I now know him. Our love to you,
and all."

Harold and Ran watched the flight of
the white dove towards the Valley of Lilies,
and Harold thought, —

The message will be read by the

sisters in the midst of their happiness.

I share it with them. Undeserving as I

am, a great joy is mine ! "

*****

I honour and love him. You will do
so when you know him as I now know
him."

But it was never to be, on earth. In

their mortal shape they were never to meet

again.

*****

All is ready," said Ran ; " let us
start. The tide is beginning to rise."

"I have a fancy," said Harold; 'you
have another pigeon which, being released,

will wing its way to your house in the
valley?"

Yes."

Bring it with you ; it is but a fancy,
but you will indulge me."

'' Willingly," and Ran strapped to his
back the small basket containing the
pigeon. " Now we are ready."

On their way Ran narrated how, some
years ago, in his eagerness to obtain a rare
flower, he had slipped over the precipice,
and had nearly met his death ; and how,
being saved by a tree which grew outwards
to the sea, he had discovered a
means to reach the shore which lay thousands
of feet beneath them. Harold
scarcely attended to Ran 's narration ; he
was thinking with sadness of the body of
Mauvais lying on the sands below.

'' What was it you told me awhile ago?"
asked Harold listlessly. "A cave of wonders,
paved with golden sand ? "

*' It is so," replied Ran ; " beneath us,
within reach of man's hands, lies the
wealth of a kingdom."

You might have achieved rare things,

Ran, with such power in your possession."



I have achieved what I desired," said
Eanf ; " the happiness of the being I love.
In the knowledge that that is secured, I
could almost be content never to see her
again on earth. There is a hereafter ; this
life is but as a passing breath." They had
reached the point from which the chain
depended sheer over the rocks which faced
the sea. *' We have to descend by this
chain. It is firm, and will not break.
The danger is in the man. Will you risk
it?"

There is a hereafter, Eanf, as you say.
Fear of death will not deter me from the
execution of my purpose."

You had best go first ; when you reach
the bottom of the chain you will find an
opening into which you can swing yourself.
The reason I send you before me is
that I can help you from above. Let me
wind this rope around your breast and
waist. So ! It is done. You can trust
your full weight to the rope ; if you miss
your hold of the chain, I shall have you

safe ; the rope is twice the length of the
chain, and my strength will be sufficient.
You will to a certainty be bruised and cut,
but you will not mind a scratch or two.
You will find steps hewn here and there in
the rocks ; take advantage of them, and do
not look downwards."

Harold unhesitatingly committed himself
to the perilous enterprise ; step by step
he descended, with his teeth firmly clenched
to prevent himself from expressing the
agony he was enduring — for his wounded
arm smarted terribly in the strain to which
it was subjected. The cheery voice of
Ran did much to strengthen and encourage
him, but by the time he reached
the end of the chain and had swung himself
into the opening of the rocks, his
strength was gone ; and when Ran joined
him, he was lying on the ground, bleeding
and exhausted. Eanf had come prepared,
and the contents of his flask helped to
revive the fainting man.

Shall we go on ? " asked Ran.

"While I have a breath of life in me,"
replied Harold, '' I will not turn ; not a

conscious moment must be wasted. Come,
I am stronger now."

And, indeed, the colour returned to his
cheek ; his strong will, so rarely exercised,
enabled him to conquer his pain. With
his hand in Ranks he followed the hunchback
into the dark tunnels of the mountain.
When the light of the moon was shut out
Ran lighted a torch, which threw a lurid
glare on the downward path. Descending
and ever descending they walked slowly
on, until they reached the cleft in the rock
through which they obtained a view of the
sea.

'' The aspect of the night has changed,"
said Harold ; '' should the moon be now in
the sky?"

Aye," said Ran, " for at least two
hours yet."

*' It is hidden. Darkness is falling on
the waters; they are strangely troubled."

Ran looked out; he understood the
signs. The sea was rolling heavily, and a
threatening murmur was in the air.

He had had experiences of such storms as
that which was now approaching, and he

knew that the danger of the enterprise upon
which the were engaged was increased
tenfold by the signs he saw and heard ; but
he knew also that no persuasion could
induce Harold to falter in his purpose. Soin
silence they resumed their way. There
were other openings in the mount as they
descended, but no light came through them ;
a deep darkness was on earth and air and
sea. " The storm will break presently'
thought Ran.

What is that sound, Ran ? "
It is the sound of falling water," said
Ran, kneeling to loosen a chain fastened
to the rocks ; " when I first heard it, in
the past, I thought it sweetest music.
Hold ! " he cried, as Harold, in his eagerness,
advanced a step beyond him. " Weare
on the edge of a chasm, which we must
descend by means of this chain. Let me
fasten the rope about you again. Keep a
firm grasp on the chain, and trust blindly toit
and me ; it is but fifty feet down. Now ! "
In a few minutes Harold had descended
the chasm, and reached a point of safety.
As his foot touched the solid rock, a flash

of lightning pierced the chasm, filling it
with vivid light, and he realized the danger
he had escaped. In the same moment he
saw Ran scrambling down the chain.

"Hark!" cried Ran, standing by
Harold's side.

A terrible peal of thunder broke over
the sea ; the sound rushed into the chasm
with awful import, and, broken up into fierce
and sullen muttering, wandered through
the dark caverns long after it had died out in
the open space beyond. A great exaltation
possessed Harold's being as he listened to
Nature's mighty voice. Every pulse in
his body beat with spiritual excitement.

Destiny must have led you to the
discovery of this path," he said to Ran.

It seemed so to me when I first trod it,"
replied Ran. " Destiny may be leading
us now to something more certain than
what has yet befallen us."

"To what?"

To death ! "

"What matters?" exclaimed Harold,
with a wild wave of his hand. " Our
work in life is over."

True. Our work is over. Harold,
you are covered with blood. You must be
in terrible pain."

I feel none. The littleness and the
agony of life are worth suffering when
they lead to such a moment as this.
Almighty God ! With what sublimity the
dark waves rush upon the eternal rocks
below ! And Mauvais — where is he ? "

'' We may know soon," said Eanf
quietly.

Slowly and laboriously they pursued
their way until they reached a point from
which they overlooked the wondrous caves
along the shore. Harold could but dimly
trace their outlines. They were wrapt in
darkness.

The heavens were overcast with sullen
clouds. The tide was rising, and the sea
was lashed to fury.

What now, Harold ? " asked Ran.

I must descend to the shore, to seek
for Mauvais' s body. It would fall at this
point ? "

"Yonder," said Ran, taking Harold's
right arm, and extending it towards the

east, " in front of those monstrous masses
of seaweed wliicli are curling furiously
upwards — "

His words were arrested by the breaking
of the storm. The lightning darted into
the brown, writhing coils ; deafening peals
of thunder instantaneously followed, and
the rain poured down in a mighty flood.

They look like an army of giant
serpents convulsed in a supreme death-struggle,"
said Harold.

The eastern edge of the summit of the
mountain over which Mauvais fell, is in a
direct line with that spot. It is madness
to attempt to recover the body. If it is
not dashed to pieces, it is already carried
out to sea."

You promised to help me,"

I do not retract. It is for you now to
direct what is to be done."

You see I have kept the rope about
my body. I shall venture to that spot ;
you can prevent me from being carried out
to sea if you will wind the end of the rope
around you. You want a resistant point ;
you cannot obtain it on these rocks."

** You have heard the legend of the snow
mountain, with which the Evangeline who
died two centuries ago is connected ? "

Yes."

So fearful was the storm that the men
were compelled to speak in whispers, with
their faces almost touching.

A few feet below us Wait till the

lightning comes There ! you saw

that huge mass of wood fixed in the
crevices of the rocks ? "

"Yes."

It is the Cross carved out of a pine-tree
by the man who slew his brother, and
wrecked the happiness of an innocent girl's
life. I can obtain my resistant point there
I can cling to an arm of the Cross,
holding the rope, while you go outward on
your wild, unreasonable quest. There is
not a moment to be lost. The tide is
rising fast, and the storm has not yet
reached its height."

Swiftly they descended to the sands,
with the waves dashing furiously upon
them. Ran, clinging with all his strength
to the Cross, and with the end of the rope

VOL. iir. s

wound round his waist, gave the word to
Harold to speed.

Almost blinded bj the water, but indomitable
in his resolve, Harold ran out
towards the rock, above which the monstrous
coils of sea-weed curled and reared.
The receding waves afforded him a few
moments' respite, and he wiped the water
from his eyes, and looked eagerly around.
He saw no trace of Mauvais's body, but
as the waves rolled inwards to the golden
caves, he fancied he saw a shapeless form
in a crevice ; he darted forward wildly,
and was instantly engulfed in the furious
rush of the sea.

So fierce and sudden was the movement
that he dragged Ran from his shelter, and
the next moment they were fighting for
dear life. They were dashed against andover
the rocks, and were terribly wounded
wounded even to death's point. But
Ran, in the blind delirium of his struggles,
preserved some kind of consciousness, and,
clinging with desperation and with the
strength of a giant to the rocks, he prevented
himself from being carried out to

sea. Taking advantage of the seaward roll
of the waves, he crawled inwards to the
golden caves, dragging Harold with him.
He regained his shelter, and then, with his
life ebbing from him, he slowly hauled in
the rope, and with it Harold's body. He
pressed it close to him, and by a supreme
effort, succeeded in climbing with his lifeless
burden into an arm of the Cross, where
they were safe from the rush of the merciless
sea. Almost on the instant the fury
of the storm began to pass away, and in a
little while the heavens were bright again
with calm and beautiful clouds.

^ vjc ^ ^ ^

Harold moved, and languidly opened his
eyes.

In this world," he thought, ''or the
next ? "

A whisper reached him.

Harold ! "

"Ah, Ran ! Alive?"

Their voices were very faint.

*' It is as much as I can say ; life is going
quickly. And you ? "

s 2

'' We are comrades ; I cannot live another
hour."

'good-night, then."

'not yet. . . . Hans!"

Yes."

You have the dove with you? "

Ran feebly moved his hand to his back ;
the basket was there, and he felt the fluttering
of the pigeon's wings.

"It is here, Harold."

Have you strength to write a word to
our friends in the Valley of Lilies ? "

The question — the intention conveyed
in it — gave him the strength.

"I can do it, Harold."

You have no paper."

Yes, wrapt in an oilskin. . I
have always carried it about me. . . .
What shall I write ? "

Farewell. From Ran and Harold,
friends in death. We shall meet in the
Hereafter."

With difficulty the words were traced.
Ran took the dove, scarcely alive, from
the basket, and attached the message
beneath its wing. He pressed his lips to

the bird, and placed it to Harold's lips.
Then he set it free.

in the fresh pure air, the bird soon
regained its strength. In a few moments
it was gone — on its way to the Valley of
Lilies where Margaret and Clarice were

sleeping in each other's arms.

% * * *

The sun rose above the eastern horizon.
A blush tinged the bosom of the Silver Sea.

Harold ! "

'aye."

I was wrong. . I said Good-night.
. . Can you see the light of the rising
sun t

I do not know. . I see a light,

thank God ! but it is in my soul, not in my

eyes. Good-morning, friend ! "

Good-morning, friend ! "

% ^ ^ ^ ^

The sea was bathed in rosy light, and
the sun shone upon the white faces of
Harold and Ran as they lay in the Cross
fixed in the golden caves !

THE END.

Printed JJV GILBERT AND Livingston, LIMITED,

ST. JOHN'S Square.

li

I

->•

0;«f

•^t'^

~ I;. !«*i

■ M.^.

■1 :

>

*^.- .•■.•■■.■•.■1' •■• ' '. - '

"-" '■ ■ "■ iV -■' ■ ■■ — ■ ■■ •■ '



Av,.

.■* '■

■^

*A

■^■•-

*^ S/*'^

p;m^M^^^

*■, - ■■■. •■. .

3 0112 045831366

rrs:^7!S!S8BB«SMS|SSSMt

^^-y.^.^-w^^^^ ffl ^ f ^q ^ Bel l ^n^m^llj l Hem ^l^ (ll^^ ll^l

•S-.\y>l^'S;^\^:\S-'S^'&5'

JSSi^^^iii^^S:^SSiM£^^;i^SiS^^
