BY

B. L. FABJEOF,

AUTHOR OP '' BLADE-O'-GRASS," ''GEIF," "THE Tragedy OF FEATHEBSTONE, '
"IN A SILVER SEA," ETC.

For life the prologue is to death,
And love its sweetest flower ;

And death is as the spring of life,
And love its richest dower.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. II.

JDonucm :

WARD AND DOWNEY,

12, YORK STREET, COVENT GARDEN, W.C.

1888.

[All rights reserved]

TOILERS OF BABYLON.

CHAPTER I.

When Mr. Lovedayay, the bookseller in Church
Alley, heard of his brother's death in a letter
which Nansie wrote to him, he fell to
reproaching himself for the small grief he
experienced at the news. The intelligence
did not, indeed, create within him any
profound impression. He and his brother
had been separated for a great many years,
and the bond of love which had united them
in their childhood had become weaker and
weaker till it scarcely held together. It is
true that death strengthened it somewhat,
but it could never again be what it once was.

VOL. II. B

The humanly selfish cares of life are so en-crossing
that love which is not in evidence
dies gradually away. That " absence makes
the heart grow fonder " is as false as are nine
out of ten of other sentimental proverbs.

Timothy," said Mr. Lovedayay to his new
assistant, who was proving himself a perfect
treasure, " when little Teddy died you were
very sorry."

I was more than sorry, sir," said Timothy,
becoming instantly grave; "I w r as almost
heart-broken."

Have you got over it ? y ' asked Mr.
Lovedayay.

I shall never get over it," replied
Timothy.

Do you think that will be true all your
life long ? "

I am certain it will be, sir."

And yet you were not related to him."

"No, sir; but I could not have loved a
brother more."

Mr. Lovedayay winced.

You regard that as a very strong tie,
Timothy."

A brother's love, sir ? "

"Yes."

I can hardly imagine a stronger. If I
had a brother I should so love him that I think
I should be ready to die for him."

Ah ! " mused Mr. Lovedayay, "perhaps,
if my brother had died when we were boys
together, I should not be reproaching myself
now for not feeling his death more
keenly."

As a penance, he inflicted a punishment
upon himself. Since he had taken Timothy
into his service his life had been easier and
more agreeable than it had been for a considerable
time past. He was no longer tormented
by small worries, which, after a long
recurrence of them, become, in certain stages
of mental irritation, veritable mountains of

evil. Timothy had more than one rare gift,

b 2

and not one more precious and beneficial in
its effect upon others than the gift of thoughtfulness.
This, extending to the most trivial
matter where his own interests were not involved,
was invariably displayed by Timothy
when opportunity offered, and it was natural,
therefore, that in his new and important
position in Mr. Lovedayay's business and household,
it should come into play with greater
force. The result was that not a day passed
without Mr. Lovedayay being made aware that
he had enlisted in his service a lad who
seemed bent upon making everything go on
smoothly around him. Heaven only knows
where Timothy picked up all he knew; it
was likely the outcome of a willing, cheerful,
practical spirit, and of one who knew
how to profit by observation ; but Timothy,
who had never learnt how to cook, could
cook a chop and a steak and a potato to perfection,
and before long could prepare more
ambitious dishes in a manner to satisfy his

master's not very fastidious taste ; and Timothy,
who had never passed an apprenticeship
in domestic service, could and did apply
himself with skilful efficiency to the thousand
and one drudgeries of domestic affairs. Moreover,
he did his work neatly and unobtrusively.
There were no sudden noises now in
Mr. Loved ay's establishment ; no unreasonable
breakages of crockery ; and, what Mr.
Lovedayay thoroughly appreciated, no waste.
It could not be but that Mr. Lovedayay noted
with gratefulness this improvement in his
surroundings, and therefore, being at ease
and in rare peace of mind, the punishment
he inflicted upon himself for not taking the
news of his brother's death more closely to
heart was really no light one. It was to
write to Nansie and remind her, if she
needed reminding, that he had promised
her father to give her the shelter of his
home.

"My dear Niece" (he wrote)— "The

intelligence yon have conveyed to me of
your dear father's death has deeply affected
me

He broke off here and sat, pen in hand,
ruminating, with his eyes fixed upon the
words he had written. " I suppose," he
thought, " that life could not be carried on
without duplicity. Here am I, for the purpose
of self-defence, where I am not openly
accused, and of proving that I am not quite
a monster, calmly presenting myself in a
false light to a young person whom I saw
only once in my life and do not in the least
remember. But what kind of a world would
this be, I wonder, if the exact truth were
always told ? "

He continued his letter :

"I knew that he was ill, but had no idea
he was in a dangerous state, or I should
not have neglected coming to see him. However,
there is no recalling the past, and
regrets, though poignant, are idle in a case

like this, where the blow that has fallen is
irremediable. I do not intend to reproach
you for your neglect of a duty, which very
likely, because of our being comparative
strangers, did not present itself to you in
such a light, but I feel strongly the loss
of the opportunity of attending my dear
brother's funeral. Had you written to me
when he died I certainly should have comedown
to you, and have done whatever lay in
my power to soften your affliction."

He broke off again and mused. " ' Words,
words, words,' as Hamlet says. And yet I
could almost deceive myself by believing
that they are true. I should have gone
down, and perhaps with something of the
full heart which I am endeavouring to express
to my niece Nansie. It is a curious
way of spelling the name, but I like it better
than Nancy. It is more poetical ; but there
was always a vein of poetry in my brothers
nature." The tenderness in him was growing

stronger, and he found comfort in it as he
plied his pen again.

I will not ask you why you were silent.
You doubtless had your reasons, one of
which, perhaps, was that you were doubtful
of me, and that you regarded me as little
better than a stranger. In this you are not
to blame, but if such a feeling exists I
desire to remove it. Some little while
ago your father wrote to me of his circumstances,
and of his anxiety respecting you
in the event of anything happening to him.
In my reply, I told him that you could
always find a home with me. From imperfect
knowledge I gather that my dear brother
left but little worldly wealth behind him ;
and my principal object in writing to you
now is to convey to you the offer of my
home which I made to him. Whether we
should suit each other remains to be seen,
but I would endeavour honestly to be kind
to you, and if you inherit any of your

father's amiable qualities, I have no doubt
that we should get along comfortably together.
I have no ties of women and children
about me ; m}^ home is a poor one,
but such as it is, it is yours if you choose
to accept it."

This was the gist of Mr. Lovedayay's letter
to Nansie, who read it with satisfaction.
When it arrived Kingsley was absent, winding
up his affairs, and the first thing Nansie
did upon his return was to give it to him
to read.

Did you tell him you were married ? ,;
asked Kingsley.

No," replied Nansie. " To tell you the
truth, Kingsley, I scarcely knew in what
light to regard him."

He says something to that effect in his
letter," remarked Kingsley, " but it seems
to be honestly and sincerely written."

I think so, too," said Nansie.

But you see," said Kingsley, " in his

offer of a home — which is very kind ; I do
not underrate it — he evidently looks upon
you as a single young lady."

I shall write, telling him that I am
married."

It will be best ; and write soon, else
he might think there was something wrong
of which, my dear," added Kingsley,
rubbing his forehead, " I am not quite sure
myself."

What makes you say that, Kingsley ? ' :
asked Nansie, anxiously.

Well, my darling," replied Kingsley, " it
is altogether the best to look things straight in
the face, isn't it ? "

Quite the best, dear."

We have decided on that before, Nansie."

"Yes, dear."

It isn't the first time I have made the
remark, but that does not lessen its force
and truth. Well, then, my affairs are
settled."

Is everything paid, Kingsley ? "

Everything. We do not owe one penny
in the world. What do you think I discovered,
Nansie ? "

1 cannot imagine, dear."

That I had a great deal more property
than I supposed."

That is delightful news, dear."

Yes, isn't it ? " said Kingsley, with a
light, puzzled laugh. " When I say property,
I don't mean land. Wish I could mean it,
because it would represent something tangible
in the way of an income, perhaps ; and that
is what we want, Nansie, don't we ? An
income."

It would be very pleasant, dear," said
Nansie, with a fond look of pity at him.

Yes, very pleasant ; it would rub away
the crosses of life."

She recalled him to his theme.

You were saying that you discovered you
had more property than you supposed ? "

Yes, that is what I was saying. and not
land, as I should have liked ; but wine.
Really a little stock, and of the best. Of
course it would be the best. And books,
some of them valuable ; and bric-a-brac. I
was astonished when we came to look through
them. And pictures, too. I was surprised
how ever I came to buy them ; but money
always burnt in my pockets, Nansie. When
it was there it had to be spent. Do you
know a greater pleasure, my dear, than spending
money ? "

It is a pleasant occupation, Kingsley,
when one has it to spare."

Of course, that."

'" Do me a great favour, dear."

I will. Just say what it is."

Tell me everything you did while you
were away, without — without "

Kingsley laughed gaily and took up her
w r words.

Without Hying off into side paths, eh?

Keep to the main road. Is that the great
favour ? "

Yes, dear."

Very good. I will try. But just consider,
Nansie — only for a moment ; I will not
detain you longer than a moment. Here weare,
you and I — the best company in the
world, my darling — walking along the main
road. Very grand, very stately, very wide.
Everything according to regulation. It is a
very long road — it generally is, Nansie — and
there is an overpowering sameness about it.
My feeling is that it is becoming tiresome,
when all at once I see, on the left or the
right, a little narrow lane with a hedge on
each side ; at the end of the hedge, some
cottages, clotted here and there, with flowers
in the windows ; at the end of the cottages
some tall trees, meeting and. forming an arch.
What do we do ? Without thinking, we turn
from the grand main road into the little
narrow lane, and the moment we do so we

breathe more freely and begin to enjoy.
That is an illustration of my manner, dear.
Do you recognise it ? "

"Yes, dear Kingsley."

"It isn't unpleasant, is it? Confess,
now."

Nothing that you do, dear, can be
unpleasant. But remember what you said a
few days ago. We must be practical."

Nansie did not utter these words in a
serious tone. On the contrary, her voice
was almost as light as Kingsley 's, and as
she spoke she laid her hand upon his
shoulder, and smiled with bright affection.
He kissed her, and replied with animation
and decision :

Exactly. That is what we are going
to be. So now for the great favour. Well,
I commenced by going through my property
and being surprised. Then I went to the
tradesmen to whom I owed money, and said :
Make out your bills and send them in.'

One or two inquired whether I was going
to pay. I said, i Of course — what else ? '
When they heard that — I refer to those
who, to my astonishment, appeared a little
uneasy about the money I owed them — they
said, ' Oh, but there's no hurry, Mr. Manners.
We will send in the account at the end of
the year But I said, ' No ; at once, if you
please.' When they came in I did not
examine them ; I laid them carefully aside
in their envelopes. Then I went to an
auctioneer, and gave him instructions to sell
all my property. I wished him to do it
immediately — that very day, but he would
not ; he said it would involve too great a
sacrifice ; but that was my affair, not his.
It is unaccountable that people will not do
the thing you want done in your way, butin
their own. However, I hurried my friend
the auctioneer as much as I could, and the
result of it all was, that I found myself two
hundred pounds richer than I had supposed."

How pleased I am, Kingsley ! "

So was I. It seemed to me as if I had
discovered a gold mine. Then I sat down
with a clean sheet of ruled foolscap before
me, and opened the tradesmen's accounts,
and put down the figures, and totted them
up. The result was that I found I owed
four hundred pounds more than I had supposed."


Oh, Kingsley ! "

It was vexing, but there it was, and
there was no help for it. I went about
my affairs in the practical way, did I not ? "

"Yes, my dear; it was the only way to
arrive at the truth."

"And to look it straight in the face.
I kept to the main road, but if a view of
a narrow lane had presented itself, I believe
I should have been tempted to wander a
little. My dear, I paid all the accounts,
and I was left with — how much do you
think ? "

I am afraid to guess, Kingsley."

Something under ten pounds. Was I
dashed ? Did I despair ? Not at all. Said
I to myself, said I — by the way, Nansie, I
once came across an old novel with just
that title ; an odd one, isn't it ? — said I
to myself, said I, to work, to work ! Something
must be done, for my dear Nansie's
sake."

How proud I am of you, Kingsley ! "

Thank you, dear. So what did I do ? I
can sketch a little in colours, you know."

You can paint very well, Kingsley.
When you said, the other night, that you
saw pictures but could not paint them, I
knew you were wrong, though I did not
contradict you."

Thank you again, dear. Nothing would
please me better than to be a poor artist, with
you, rich and influential, for my patron."

I should give you every shilling I possessed,
Kingsley."

VOL. II. c

And you call yourself practical. Nonsense,
nonsense ! It is I who am the practical
one. I proved it. I bought water-colours,
drawing-paper, pencils, brushes, a nice little
outfit for thirty-eight shillings, and, Pansies
set to work. Upon my honour, I painted
a picture which I considered not bad."

What did you do with it ? You have
brought it with you ? "

No, my dear little wife, I sold it."
Why, [Kingsley," said Nansie, in a delighted
tone, "you have actually already
made a start."

I have," said Kingsley, laughing heartily.
"The picture painted, I took it out to the
shops. My dear, they rather pooh-poohed it
at first."

u They ought to have been ashamed of
themselves," exclaimed Nansie, indignantly.

They weren't. But I met with a patronat
last. He was a stationer, and said the
picture was of no use to him. 'But it's

worth something I said. To be honest with
you, Nansie, I was getting rather disgusted
with the whole affair. ' It's worth something
I said. ' Two-pence said the shopkeeper.
' Done said I, and I threw the
picture on the counter, and held out my
hand. He stared at me, but I gave him to
understand that he had offered me two-pence
for my picture, and that I accepted it.
He stared harder than ever and handed
me the two-pence. It is the first money
I ever earn in my life, and I have brought
it home to you. The experiment was a
capital one, Nansie ; it taught me something
that I am not cut out for a painter.
Next to discovering what you can do, the
best thing is to discover what you can't
do. Having discovered it, turn the key on
it."

Nansie gazed at him sadly. He was
speaking with animation, and there was an

excited flush in his face. His eyes were

C 2

bright, and his manner was indicative of
anything but disappointment.

I thought then," continued Kingsley,
"that I would try my friends, but when I
came to consider, I arrived at the conclusion
that there was only one to whom I could
disclose my position. I went to him and
made full confession. He is an older fellow
than I, and wiser. What I like about him
is that he doesn't say : ' You shouldn't have
done this or ' You shouldn't have done that.'
He hits the nail on the head. ' There is
no hope of your father relenting ? ' said he.
'None said I. 'Time may soften him,' he
said. ' Even if it does,' said I, ' there is a
problem to solve while the grass is growing.'
You must live,' said he, ' of course.' ' Of
course,' said I. 'And you must work to
live,' said he. I assented. ' Then,' said he,
'let us see what you are fit for.' My own
thought, Nansie, put almost in my own
words. But although we considered and

talked we arrived at nothing tangible. He
seemed really more troubled than I was, and
at the end of a long conversation he said :
Kingsley, old fellow, I can lend you a
tenner.' It was noble of him, because he
must have known that there was little chance
of my being able to repay him. I thanked
him, and said I wouldn't borrow in such circumstances
as mine. Then he invited me to
dine with him, and I accepted. And that,
my dear Nansie, is all I have to tell you."

He gazed round at Nansie with the air
of a man who had just finished a pleasant
tale, and said :

1 'Now we will talk of something else."

Nansie wrote to her uncle before she went
to bed, informing him that she was married,
and thanking him for the kind letter he had
sent her. She said nothing as to the offer
of a home, because she did not consider that
it held good. Nansie single and Nansie
married could not bear the same relation in
her uncle's eyes. Single, she needed a protector
; married, she possessed one. The
responsibility of affairs lay with her husband ;
all that it was in her power to do was to wait
and see what steps he took towards providing
for their home. She could encourage and
strengthen him, but for the present that was
all. To attempt so early to assume the

direction of affairs would have been an affront
to her husband's manhood, and as, out of
loyalty to Kingsley, she purposely avoided
the contemplation of this contingency, she
had no idea what steps it would be
advisable for her to take in the event of
Kingsley's failure.

On the following morning she told
Kingsley that she had written to her uncle,
and asked him if he would like to read the
letter before it was posted. Kingsley replied
that as she must have written about him
he would prefer not to see it.

"I have written everything that is good
about you," she said.

That is the reason," said Kingsley.
"My dear, I trust you implicitly, and I am
satisfied that you have said exactly what is
right — with one exception. You have spoken
too highly of your husband. Don't shake
your head, I know it. You have an exaggerated
opinion of me, or, to phrase it

better, you have formed an ideal which will
not bear the test of sober truth. But that,
dear little w T ife, is the fate of most ideals."

What you say," observed Nansie, " will
apply with equal truth to your opinkm of
me."

Not at all," said Kingsley, with fond
seriousness, " you stand away and apart from
me — higher, nobler, more capable. I will not
listen to any contradiction, my dear, when
I am discussing you. The fact is, I have
already applied the test."

In what way, Kingsley ? " asked Nansie.

She was learning that it was best to
humour him in certain moods, which it
seemed impossible for him to avoid.

In this. Of course, when I first saw you
I formed my ideal of you. What it was, I
think you know to some small extent, for
the love I feel and express for you is no idle
sentiment. Whatever else I may be, I am at
least as true as steel to you. It is one virtue

I may fairly claim, for nothing which is
inspired by you can be anything else. Wei],
knowing you but slightly, my ideal was
formed, and familiar association would either
destroy or establish it. My dear, I have
questioned myself, I have asked : ' Does
Nansie come up to your ideal ? Is she the true
woman you supposed her to be ? Does she
represent what you believed — the sweetness,
the purity, the nobility, the tenderness which
have sanctified the very name of woman ? '
The answer is : * She is all, and more than all,
you believed her to be. There is nothing in
her that is not sweet, and true, and good.
The ideal you set up falls short of the
reality.' Then, on the other hand, is the
question of Me. I do not wish to disturb
you, my dear, but I fear a terrible disappointment
awaits you when you have found me
out. No, I will not allow you to answer me.
You may stand up in my defence when I am
not present, but my imperfections are too

apparent — now that I am brought face to
face with them — to encourage any attempt
to smooth them away. However, we are
bound to each other for better or worse, and
you must make the best of me. Now address
your letter to your uncle, and I will post it
for you."

Shall I give him your love, Kingsley ? "
asked Nansie, adding hurriedly, "you are
very unjust to yourself."

"Yes, dear, give him my love, and say
that I hope to make his acquaintance one day.
As to being unjust to myself, I know I am the
best judge of that."

He went from the room, and in a few
minutes presented himself again, gloved and
polished, a faithful presentment of a young
English gentleman.

"You must wish me luck, Nansie," he
said. " I am going to see what can be done
in the way of obtaining a situation. Perhaps
something fortunate will turn up."

She kissed him and watched him from the
street door walking along the street, looking
brightly this way and that for something to
turn up. He returned at six o'clock in the
evening, in time for dinner. There was a
jaded expression on his face, which vanished
the moment his eyes rested on Nansie.

Home, sweet home," he said, passing his
arms round her waist, and drinking in her
beauty with a grateful spirit.

She knew that he had not been successful
in his quest, but nevertheless she asked
what fortune he had met with.

"None at all," he replied; "but Some
wasn't built in a day. We must have
patience. I will tell you after dinner what
I have done."

They had the pleasantness of meals, enlivened
by his gaiety ; and when the things
were cleared away and he had lit his cigar,
he said :

What can a man wish for more ? A

good dinner, the sweetest of company, a
fine cigar — it was right, was it not, Nansie,
for me to keep back three hundred of my
choicest ? "

Quite right," replied Nansie, " and very
thoughtful of you. I love the smell of a
good cigar."

When I put them aside," said Kingsley,
holding up a reproving fore-finger, " I thought
only of myself. I reflected that it might
be some time before I could afford to buy
more of the same kind."

Kingsley," said Nansie, pleadingly.

Yes, dear," he responded.

I want you to understand something."

"Anything you wish, Nansie. Let me
know what it is."

Only that your disparagement of yourself
hurts me, dear. Knowing that there
is nothing in the world you would not do
for my sake, it is painful to me to think
that you may grow into the habit of believing

that everything you do is done with
a selfish motive. It is not so— indeed it is
not so ! '

"How seriously you speak, Nansie !" said
Kingsley, drawing her close to him. " Do
you really mean to say that I am not
selfish ? "

If there is in the world a man who
has proved himself otherwise, it is you, my
dear," said Nansie, laying her head upon his
shoulder. "Be just to yourself, in justification

me.

"That requires elucidation, my dearest,"
said Kingsley, with great tenderness.

"Think of the sacrifice you have made
for me, a poor girl, but for whom you
would be now at peace with your parents,
and in the enjoyment of much, if not of
all, that makes life worth living. How low
should I fall in your estimation if I were
insensible to that sacrifice, if I were to undervalue
it, if I w r ere to say : ' It is what any

other man in Kingsley's place would have
done ! '

"Is it not ? " he asked, passing his hand
fondly over her hair.

"No, indeed and indeed it is not. I do
not pretend to assert that I know the world
as you know it" — there was something whimsical
in the expression of unconsciously-affected
wisdom which stole into Kingsley's face as
she uttered these words — "but I know it
sufficiently well to be certain that there are
few men capable of a sacrifice such as you
have made for me. What had I to give in
return ? "

Love," he answered.

It is yours," she said, and tears, in which
there was no unhappiness, stole into her eyes,
love as perfect as woman ever gave to man.
Not love for to-day, my dearest, but love
for ever ; love which nothing can weaken ;
love which will triumph over every adversity ;
love which will be proof against any trial.
But that is little."

"It is everything," said Kingsley, "to me
and to every man worthy of the name. The
sacrifice I have made — you choose to call it
so, and I will not contradict you, dear — is
to be measured. Not so with love. It is
illimitable, un measurable. It illumines every
surrounding object ; it makes the commonest
things precious. How beautiful the present
is to you and to me ! Could it be more
beautiful if we were passing it in a palace ?
That picture on the wall — a common print ?

No. A lovely possession. The handsomest
painting that ever was painted hanging there
would it make the present moments sweeter,
would it invest the spiritual bond which
unites us with a binding link which now
is missing ? This book on the table which
cost a shilling — if it were a first edition
worth thousands of pounds, would it increase
our happiness, would it make your love forme
and mine for you more perfect and complete
? There is an immeasurable distance
between what I have gained and what I

have lost. So let us have no more talk of
sacrifices, Nansie, dear."

She could not find arguments with which
to answer him, and it would have been strange
if she had needed them.

In return," he continued, " I will make
the strongest endeavour not to underrate
myself, nor to prove that I am more than
ordinarily selfish. There — my cigar is out."

She lit a match and held it while he
puffed away at his weed.

You promised to tell me what you have
done to-day," she said.

There is very little to tell. I did what
I could, which consisted simply of walking
about, and looking in shop-windows. I went
out without any distinct idea in my mind ;
I thought that something might happen,
and I was disappointed. Everything and
everybody seemed to be going along nicely,
and not to be in want of me. It occurred
to me to consider what I was fit for. I

looked into the windows of a boot-shop.
What do I know of boots and shoes, except
how to put them on my feet ? Literally
nothing. The same with haberdashers, the
same with grocers, the same with jewellers,
the same with every kind of shop. Then,
trades ; I don't know one. Printers, engravers,
carpenters, watchmakers, and that kind
of thing — you have to serve an apprenticeship
before you can hope to earn money by
them. I felt like a fish out of water. There
seemed to be no groove for me, nothing that
I could take hold of. I am really puzzled,
Nansie."

My poor Kingsley ! " murmured Nansie.

But, there," he said, snapping his fingers,
"it will not mend matters to worry about
them. Nil desperado, and a fig for the
world and its cares ! If only tomorrow would
not come ! "

He certainly had the gift of giving dull
care the go-by ; and in another minute he was

VOL. II. x>

the same light-hearted, pleasant-humoured,
irresponsible being he had ever been, and
was doing his best with his whimsical talk
to make Nansie forget the serious position in
which they were placed.

Some indication has been given of the success
of Timothy Chance's service with Mr.
Lovedayay. There are men, like Kingsley
Manners, who, being suddenly thrust upon
the world to shift for themselves, find themselves
plunged into a sea of difficulties, extrication
from which is impossible except by
some unexpected windfall of fortune. There
are others who are so well armed for difficulties,
that the encountering of them serves
as an incentive and a spur. "What depresses
one elevates the other; what makes one despondent
makes the other cheerful. It is
chiefly a matter of early education, in which
adversity is frequently a factor for good.

d 2

Partly, also, it is a matter of adaptability.


It may be taken for granted that wherever
Timothy Chance fell he would fall upon
his feet, and that he would be among the
first to take advantage of an opportunity. A
hard-working, faithful servant, but with an
eye to his own interests. It is running far
ahead of events to state that, when he was
a middle-aged man, with a house of his
own, there stood upon a bracket in his private
room the image of a hen fashioned in
gold — a valuable ornament ; for the gold was
of the purest, and the bird was of life-size ;
and that the sense of possession imparted
a satisfaction to Timothy Chance far beyond
its value. He amused himself by the
fancy that the fowl of gold was an exact
reproduction of the living fowl which he had
rescued from the fire in the school-house,
and which had laid an egg in Mr. Lovedayay's
shop on the day of Timothy's return to

London. The goose of the fable that laid
golden eggs was an insignificant bird in
comparison with Timothy Chance's first fowl.
There was at first a difficulty respecting its
habitation. Mr. Lovedayay's shop had no
backyard, and for the sake of cleanliness
it could not be kept in the house. There
were, however, plenty of backyards in the
immediate vicinity of Church Alley, and to
the proprietor ' of 'one of these Timothy
betook himself, arranging to pay rent in
kind, that is to say (for we are approaching
legal ground) one new-laid egg per
week, or in default, its full retail value,
seven farthings. For it was not long before
Timothy discovered that he could dispose
of a limited number of new-laid eggs — the
day of laying being guaranteed — to private
persons at that rate per egg. Timothy's
hen was certainly a wonderful layer ; during
the first thirty-one days of its tenancy of
the Whitechapel backyard, it laid no fewer

than twenty-six eggs, which, deducting five
for rental, left twenty-one to the good. A
retired buttermilk, who should undoubtedly
have been a good judge, engaged to take
them all at the price above mentioned, and at
the end of the month the account stood thus:

s. d.
21 rent-paid eggs at If d. . . . . 3 Of

Less, food for fowl, at the rate of |-d. per day . 1 3J

Leaving a net profit of . . . . 1 9 J

This is a precise copy of the account made
out by Timothy Chance, on the termination
of the month ; and with the figures, clear
and well-shaped before him, Timothy devoted
himself to thought. His service with
the seller of second-hand books had served
him in good stead. He had rummaged out
from among the stock at least a score of
books treating of fowls and their produce,
and he had studied them attentively. Some
were old, one or two were of late years, and
they all pointed to one fact — that money

was to be made out of eggs. Most of the
writers deplored the fact that the English
people were so blind to their own interests as
to systematically neglect a subject so fruitful.
One of the treatises dealt in large figures —
to wit, the population of Great Britain, and
the number of eggs by them consumed annually
; further, the number of eggs laid in the
kingdom, and the number we were compelled
to import to satisfy the demand, amounting
not to scores but to hundreds of millions.
Timothy's eyes dilated. One daring enthusiast
went so far as to print pages of statistics
to prove that if Government took the affair
in hand, it could, in a certain number of
years (number forgotten by the present
chronicler), pay off the national debt. This
perhaps, was too extravagant, but the fact
remained, and appeared incontrovertible, that
money was to be made out of eggs. Here
was plain proof — one shilling and ninepence
farthing made out of one hen in a single month.

"Let me see," mused Timothy, "how this
turns out for the year."
Down went the figures.

s. d.
Cost of food, 365 days at Jd. per day .15 2 J
Cost of fowl, say 3

18 2h

For a moment he forgot the rent, but he
remembered it before he went into the credit
side, and he reckoned it at a penny a week,
which made the total expenses £1 2s. 6^d.

Timothy was aware that he could not
reckon upon an egg a day all through the
year, but his reading up on the subject, and
the calculations he had made, convinced him
that a fair-laying hen might be depended
upon for two hundred and forty eggs during
the three hundred and sixty-five days.

"At three-halfpence each," he mused, and
set down the figures, "that will bring in
thirty shillings. Say it brings in only
twenty-eight shillings, and make the total

charges one pound four, and there remains a
clear profit of four shillings for the year.
Then the fowl itself, supposing I sell it at the
end of the year, is worth at least a shilling.
A profit of five shillings on one hen. On
twenty, a profit of five pounds ; on a hundred,
a profit of twenty-five pounds ; on a thousand,
a profit of two hundred and fifty pounds."

The figures almost took his breath away.
Let it be understood that Timothy's reflections
and calculations are here pretty accurately
reported. He continued. So large a number
of eggs would have to be sold wholesale, and
three-halfpence each could not be reckoned
upon, but then the rent would be much less,
and the cost of food much less ; and there
were other ideas floating in his mind which
he could not formulate, and about which there
was no cause for his troubling himself just
at present.

"Mr. Lovedayay," said he to his employer,
if a speculation is entered into in a small way

and leaves a small profit, would it not leave a
larger profit if entered into in a large way ? J!

"That," replied Mr. Lovedayay, "stands to
reason. What is your head running on,
Timothy ? "

Eggs, sir," said Timothy.

Mr. Lovedayay stared at him for a few
moments without speaking.

That is what you have been studying
books on poultry for ? " he said, presently.

"Yes, sir."

Well," said Mr. Lovedayay, after another
pause, " there's something in eggs, I daresay.
Some of the peasantry in France make
quite an income out of them ; our own poor
country-folk are not so far-seeing."

What can be done in France," said
Timothy, patriotically and sententiously, " can
be done in England."

"Don't be too certain of that," said Mr.
Lovedayay. " They grow grapes in France
and make wine. We don't."

"That is a matter of climate," remarked
Timothy. "Fowls lay eggs in every country
in the world, and once laid, there they
are."

"To be sure," said Mr. Lovedayay, staring
at his assistant, " there they are."

"Anyhow," said Timothy, "nothing can
alter that what will pay in a small way ought
to pay in a large, can it, sir ? "

"The conclusion appears sensible and
reasonable. I suppose you have made something
out of your fowl."

"Nearly two shillings in the month, sir."

"Not at all bad," said Mr. Lovedayay, "not
at all bad. You must take the breed into
account."

"Black Hamburgss, sir, that's the breed for
eggs."

"Workings, I should say," suggested Mr.
Lovedayay.

Black Hamburgss will beat them, sir,"
said Timothy, confidently ; and Mr. Lovedayay,

feeling that be was on unsafe ground, wisely-held
his tongue.

Timothy had. saved between five and six
shillings out of his wages, and he expended,
the whole of his savings in putting up a
rough fowl-house, and. in the addition of a
black Hamburg to his live stock. He began
to feel like a proprietor.

Slow and sure, you know, Timothy''
advised. Mr. Lovedayay.

"Yes, sir, and thank you," said Timothy.
"I will endeavour not to make mistakes."

We shall have you Chancellor of the
Exchequer in course of time," said Mr. Love-day,
in a tone by no means unkindly.

I shall be content to earn a living,
sir," said. Timothy, modestly ; and rejoiced
largely when he showed, his employer two
new-laid eggs in one day.

Three months after this conversation Mr.
Lovedayay and Timothy were standing in front
of the book-shop, discussing some proposed
alterations in the stall outside upon which
the more promiscuous books were offered
for sale. The weather was fine, and a bright
sun was striving to make its presence known
in Church Alley ; a bird in a cage hung
above Mr. Sly's shop window was piping
a song of gratitude and welcome, and a cat,
caught by a sunbeam, stood stock still enjoying
the warmth. A young woman, neatly
and plainly dressed, entered Church Alley,
and with timid, hesitating steps, gazed at
the shops and houses as she passed them,

halting within a yard of the stall before
which Mr. Lovedayay and Timothy were talking.
Timothy was explaining his views.
The new stall could be made with flaps,
hanging down, which, when rain threatened,
could be swiftly raised to enclose the books.
This would do away with the old and cumbersome
method of covering the outside stock
with canvas.

And besides, sir, it could be made to
fit like a box, with a good padlock outside,
so that there would be no need to take the
books out and in morning and night. The
expense would not be great, only the timber.
I can borrow tools, and make it as well asa
carpenter. 1 don't mind saying that a
thorough good workman couldn't beat my
fowl-house."

There's nothing much you can't do,
Timothy," said Mr. Lovedayay.

These things are not difficult, sir, if
one only puts one's mind to them. A good

saw and plane, a chisel, a few nails and
hinges, and it is done."

"You shall try your hand, Timothy,"
said Mr. Lovedayay, and turned to go into
his shop.

As he did so, his eyes rested upon the
figure of the young woman who had halted
within a few steps of him.

He was transfixed. Twenty and odd
years of his life were suddenly engulphed
in a memory of the past.

There stood the woman he had loved and
lost — the woman whom his dead brother had
loved and married.

He stood like a man in a dream, or under
a spell of enchantment. All consciousness
of the present time had vanished. The past
came back again, the love which had slept so
long that he had deemed it dead awoke within
him and stirred his heart. Was it joy, was
it pain he felt as he stretched forth a trembling
hand ?

As if in response to that movement on his
part, the woman moved towards him, and held
out her two hands with an affectionate look in
her eyes, in which there dwelt also some touch
of entreaty.

Who are you ? " he asked, faintly, recovering
his voice.

I am Nansie," was the reply. " I recognised
you, uncle, by your likeness to my dear
father."

And I recognised you," he said, " by
your likeness to your dear mother. How
like you are to her — how like, how like ! "

I am glad," said Nansie. u My dear
father always said I was growing to resemble
her more and more. Uncle, am I welcome ? ;:

Quite welcome. Come in."

He was himself once more ; and he took
her hands in his, and conducted her into his
shop.

Timothy gazed at Nansie with worshipping
eyes as she passed from the open, and stood

gazing — for how long he knew not — until he
was aroused by Mr. Lovedayay suddenly appearing
from the shop, and calling out to him,
in an agitated tone, to run for a doctor.

"No, no," cried Nansie's voice from within,
I do not need a doctor. I only fainted a
moment, I was so tired. You don't know the
ways of women, uncle."

How should I," he said, rejoining her,
having so small an acquaintance with
them ? "

But you said I was welcome, uncle ? " she
said in a solicitous tone.

And you are."

You are glad to see me ? "

"Yes. Why have I not seen you before ?
Why have I not heard from you ? "

I wrote to you, uncle."

"Telling me you were married. Yes, I
forgot."

11 You did not reply."

I saw no occasion. I thought if you

VOL. II. e

wanted me you would write again, or

come."

Here I am, as you see, uncle."

I see. Wanting me ? "

I — I think so, uncle. You shall judge."

You speak in a voice of doubt. Listen
to me, Nansie. I may call you so ? "

Surely, surely. It gives me pleasure."

Listen, then. If there is anything in my
voice or manner to cause you uneasiness,
account for it by the fact that I know little
of women, as you yourself said. It is sometimes
my way — not always, and seldom unless
I am somewhat shaken. If you had
informed me that you were coming I should
have been prepared. I should not then have
thought, when my eyes fell upon you, that
it was your mother I was gazing upon, and
not her daughter."

I am sorry," murmured Nansie.

There is nothing to be sorry for. These
reminders do a man — especially a recluse

like myself — no harm. You are turning
white. Are you going to faint again ? "

No ; I will not allow myself."

I have some brandy in the house. Shall
I give you a little ? It is a medicine."

"No, thank you, uncle; I never touch
it."

"What is it, then, that makes you so
white ? Stay. A cup of tea ? "

If you please, uncle."

I am a dunderhead. Timothy ! "

No genii in Eastern tales ever appeared
more promptly at a summons.

Yes, sir."

Make some tea ; the best — quick ! "

Timothy glanced at Nansie, nodded, and
vanished.

"That is my assistant," said Mr. Love-day;
"a treasure. A man, a boy, a girl, a
woman, rolled into one. He can sew on
buttons."

Nansie laughed, and Mr. Lovedayay gasped.

e 2

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS

"Don't mind me," he said in explanation.
"Your laugh is so like your mother's.
You see, Nansie, until I grow more accustomed
to you, I shall find myself driven
into the past."

There was a deep tenderness in his voice,
and she took his hand in hers.

Uncle, will you not kiss me ? "

He kissed her, and the tears came into his
eyes.

There," he muttered, " you see how it is.
That is the first time my lips have touched a
woman's face since I was a youngster. Don't
think the better of me for it. "What is
the time ? Four o'clock. Have you had
dinner ? "

"No, uncle."

•''Lunch ? "

"No, uncle."

Breakfast ? "

"Yes."

"At what hour? "

"Eight o'clock."

And nothing since ? "

Nothing. I was so anxious to get to you,
and I have been so long finding you."

No wonder you are white and faint.
Ah, there is Timothy, in my little room
where we eat — and talk, I was about to say ;
but we talk everywhere. Come along."

There was not only tea on the table, there
was a chop, beautifully cooked, and bread and
butter, on a clean white cloth.

What did I tell you of him ? " said Mr.
Lovedayay, when Timothy, after looking at
the table to see that nothing was wanting,
had departed. "He knew what I did not
I never met another like him. Now, eat.
Ah, the colour is coming back into your
face. Have you come from the country ? "

Yes, uncle."

What station did you stop at ? "

Waterloo."

At what time ? "

One o'clock."

And you have been three hours getting
here. Why did you not ride ? I beg your
pardon. No money, perhaps ? "

Oh, yes." She produced her purse,
which, before she could prevent him, her
uncle took from her hand.

Two shillings and eighteen. Is it all
you have ? "

Her lips quivered.

Of course you could not ride. There is
no return ticket to — to the place you came
from."

I was not sure of returning there, uncle."

Ah ! I have something to hear. Or
perhaps you did not have money enough to
pay for a double fare. Why, Nansie, I might
have been dead, for all you knew ! You
trusted to a slender chance. What would
have happened if you had not found me ?
Two shillings and eighteen would have kept
you till tomorrow, and then You have

something of my brother's thoughtless spirit
in you."

Say rather, uncle, of your dear brother's
hope and trust."

I will say it if you like, but it will not
alter the fact that you have acted rashly.
But I must learn how the land lies. You
have a story to tell ? "

"Yes, uncle."

If I allow you to tell it in your own way
you will stumble and break down, will cry,
and faint again perhaps. I put you, therefore,
in the witness-box, where you are to
speak the truth, the whole truth, and nothing
but the truth. Are you ready ? "

"Yes, uncle,"

No evasions, no gloss ; plain and unvarnished.
Deceive me once, and you will find
me a tough customer. First let me say that
I am agreeably surprised in you. Brought
up in the country I know not how, I might
have expected my niece to be a raw country

wench with rough manners and small education.
I find, on the contrary, a lady who can
read and write."

Yes, uncle," said Nansie, with a smile,
I can do that."

And can cipher, perhaps."

I am not very good at figures, uncle."

Of course not — you are a woman. But
languages now. French, perhaps?"

Yes, uncle."

And German ? "

{i Yes, uncle."

Ah, a Crichton in petticoats. Any
others ? "

Those are all the languages I can speak,
uncle."

"And enough too, Nansie."

'eyes, uncle."

I must do your father the justice to say
that he has furnished you well. But I suppose
you can't make a pudding ? "

Yes I can, uncle."

Better and better. I thought I was
about to learn something. And, now, when
your father died he did not leave a fortune
behind him ? "

He died poor."

But you were not alone and unprotected.
You had a husband by your side. It occurs tome
as strange that so soon before my brother's
death he should have written to me in anxiety
about you, and should have asked me to give
you a home here in London ; and you with a
husband all the time ! "

My father did not know I was married."

But you were ? "

"Yes."

Do you mean to tell me that you were
secretly married ? "

It is so, uncle."

I never heard of a secret marriage the
motive for which did not spring from the
man. It was your husband's wish that your
marriage should be kept secret ? "

For a time only, uncle ; until his father's
return from abroad."

Of course — family reasons."

"Yes."

The usual story. What difference would
it have made if you had been married with
your father's consent and knowledge ? There
would have been less duplicity in the affair."

Uncle, it is difficult sometimes to see
how things come about. It happened as I
have told you. It might not if we had consulted
my dear father beforehand."

Would he have refused his consent ? ' :

It is most likely."

Ah ! However careless and unmindful
my brother might have been in worldly matters,
he was a gentleman and a man of fine
instincts. You married a man beneath you."

You are wrong, uncle. I married a
gentleman far above me."

"And yet you tell me your father would
have refused his consent."

You forget, uncle. My dear father was
truly what you have described him — a man
of fine instincts."

Well ? "

We were poor ; my husband's family
are very wealthy."

I am corrected. The fact would have
caused my brother to act as you say, unless,
indeed, the consent of your husband's parents
had been previously obtained."

It was not, uncle."

What rash folly ! I anticipate your
answer. You were in love."

"Yes, uncle."

I am beginning to get puzzled. There
is a kind of tangle here. In the first letter
you wrote to me you signed yourself Nansie.
Nothing more. When I replied to you I
addressed you in your father's name. In
your second letter, acquainting me that you
were married, you signed yourself Nansie
Manners."

r \

That is my name."

You tell me that you have married into
a wealthy family, and you come to me faint
and hungry, with two-and-eightpencc in your
purse. And I will hazard the guess that you
travelled third-class."

"I did, uncle."

"Explain the anomaly."

When my husband told his father of
our marriage he discarded him and turned
him from the house."

'•' That explains it ; but it is bad, very
bad. See what comes of secret marriages.
Hopes shattered, old ties broken, hearts
embittered, parents and children parted in
anger. Had you known all this beforehand
would you have married ? "

No, uncle," replied Nansie, firmly. It
was the first time the question had been
put to her, and she could not but answer
frankly. " I would not have done Kingsley
such injustice."

Then there has been injustice — injustice
all round. Kingsley, I infer, is your husband."
Nansie nodded. " Have you come
into association with his family ? "

I have never seen one of them, uncle."

Where do they live ? "

Here, in London. You have heard of
them, I dare say, uncle. Kingsley's father
is the great contractor, Mr. Manners."

Mr. Loved ay started. " Manners, the great
contractor ! Why, Nansie, the man is a millionaire,
and famous all the world over ! You
have flown high, my girl."

I knew nothing of this. Before Kingsley
and I met I had never heard of Mr. Manners ;
and even up to the day of our marriage I
had no idea that he was so wealthy and
famous. Kingsley spoke of him as being
rich, but nothing more ; and, uncle, I was not
very worldly-wise, and should have thought a
man with a thousand pounds rich. I should
think so now."

You have made no effort to see your
husband's father?"

No ; it would be useless. Kingsley tells
me he is a man of iron will, and never
swerves from a resolution he has made. There
is no hope of turning him. Was it not noble
conduct, uncle, on Kingsley *s part to marry
me, a poor girl without a penny in the
world ? "

' I am not at all sure, Nansie." He opened
her purse and took out the few poor coins it
contained. " See what it has brought you to.
Better for you if your husband had a hundred
a year than a father with millions which
he buttons his pockets upon. It was a rash
and thoughtless act you young people have
done. There is no hope of turning Mr.
Manners, you say. Yet you are a lady,
well mannered, well spoken, well educated ;
and he sprang from nothing. It is well
known. But it is idle to talk in this fashion.
There is a stubbornness on the part of the

ignorant which is worse than the pride of
those who can boast of high descent. The
self-made man is often the most difficult
animal to deal with. Your husband could
not have contemplated the cost of what he
was about to do."

He thought only of one thing, uncle —
that he loved me."

And that is to serve as a set-off against
all the ills of life. I hope it may prove so.
The commencement does not hold out any
great promise, that's plain. And now, Nansie,
tell me the rest in your own way. I have
got the nut of the story, and a precious hard
one it is to crack."

When my dear father died," said Nansie,
"Kingsley was in London. Mr. Manners
had just returned from Russia, and it was
the first opportunity Kingsley had of making
him acquainted with our marriage. I think
that Kingsley, out of consideration for me,
has not told me everything that passed between

him and his father, but I know that
Mr. Manners extracted a promise from him
to remain at home for a week before he
decided."

Decided upon what ? " asked Mr. Love-day,
abruptly.

"I do not know, uncle ; Kingsley ha
been so worried and troubled that it would
have been unkind for me to press him
upon points which really matter very little.
For after all, Kingsley came back to me
when I called him, and is true and faithful."

His father perhaps pressed him to desert
you and break your heart. Rich as the self-made
man is, he could not divorce you. And
your husband consented to remain a week in
his father's house to consider it ! That looks

ugly."

Kingsley did nothing wrong. He hoped
by remaining near his father that a favourable
moment might come when he could successfully
appeal to him to deal more tenderly towards

us. There was also the chance of his
mother's mediation."

Ah, there is a mother. I was going to
ask about her."

Mr. Manners is master of everything
and everybody. His lightest word is law.
Before the week was ended Kingsley received
my letter with news of my dear
father's death. Where was Kingsley's place
then, uncle ? "

By your side."

He came at once, without a single hour's
delay. He asked his father to release him
from his promise, and as Mr. Manners would
not do so, he broke it — out of love for me.
This, I think, embittered Mr. Manners more
strongly against us, and he turned Kingsley
from the house. I hope you are beginning todo
Kingsley justice, uncle."

He seems to have acted well. But goon."



After my father was buried, Kingsley

VOL. II. F

and I were naturally very anxious as to how
we should live. Kingsley had a little property,
but he owed money to tradesmen,
which had to be paid. The settlement of
these accounts swallowed up nearly every
sovereign he possessed, and we had a hard
fight before us, harder, indeed, than we
imagined. I must tell you that Kingsley
wrote to his parents without success. His
father returned his letter without one word
of acknowledgment. If I had thought I
could do any good I would have gone to his
mother, but I felt that it would only make
matters worse, if they could be worse. What
could I have expected from her but reproaches
for separating her from her son ?
For I am the cause of that. If Kingsley had
never seen me he would have been at peace
with his parents, carrying out his father's
desire that he should become a Member of
Parliament, and take a part in public affairs.
Kingsley is fitted for it, indeed he is. He

talks most beautifully. And I have spoilt it
all, and have ruined a great career. I would
not dare to say so to Kingsley ; he would
never forgive me for it. He tried hard to
get some sort of work to do ; he went out
day after day, and used to return home so
sad and wearied that it almost broke my
heart to see him."

With but a little store of money," said
Mr. Lovedayay, u such a state of affairs must
soon come to an end."

We held out as long as we could ; longer,
indeed, than I thought possible. We parted
with many little treasures "

And all this time you never wrote tome
! " exclaimed Mr. Lovedayay.

Remember, uncle, that I had written to
you and that you had not sent a line of
congratulation upon our marriage."

A nice thing to congratulate you upon !
But I was to blame, I admit it."

"It was a delicate matter to Kingsley.

p 2

1 Your uncle doesn't care to know me he
said ; and so it seemed. At length, uncle,
we came to a great block, and we truly
despaired. But there was a break in the
clouds, uncle."

Good."

"I am speaking of yesterday. A letter
arrived for Kingsley from a friend to whom
he had written, saying that a gentleman who
intended to remain abroad for three or four
months required a kind of secretary and
companion, and that Kingsley could secure
the situation if he cared for it. The gentleman
was in Paris, and the letter contained
a pass to Paris, dated yesterday. We had
come to our last shilling, uncle, and this
separation — I hope and trust not for long —
was forced upon us. Kingsley managed to
raise a little money, a very little, uncle,
just enough to defray his expenses to Paris
and to leave me a few shillings. So last
evening, when we parted, it was agreed that

I should come to London to-day, and appeal
to you to give me shelter till Kingsley's
return. That is all, uncle. Will you ? "

"Yes, Nansie," said Mr. Lovedayay, "I
will keep the promise I made to my dead
brother."

Nansie took his hand and kissed it, and
then burst into tears.

From that day a new life commenced for
Mr. Lovedayay. It was not that there was any
great improvement in the ordinary domestic
arrangements of his modest establishment,
because the reign of Timothy had introduced
beneficial changes in this respect before
Nansie was made Queen. It was more in
its spiritual than its material aspect that
the new life was made manifest. To have
a lady moving quietly about the house, to
be greeted by a smile and a kind glance
whenever he turned towards her, to hear
her gentle voice addressing him without invitation
on his part — all this was not only
new, but wonderful and delightful. Mr.

Lovedayay very soon discovered that Nansie
was indeed a lady, and far above the
worldly station to which her circumstances
relegated her ; it was an agreeable discovery,
and he appreciated it keenly. He found
himself listening with pleasure to her soft
footfall on the stairs or in the rooms above,
and he would even grow nervous if any
length of time elapsed without evidence of
her presence in the house. Perhaps Nansie's
crowning virtue was her unobtrusiveness.
Everything she did was done quietly, without
the least fuss or noise ; no slamming
of doors to jar the nerves, nothing to disturb
or worry.

Where did you learn it all, Nansie ? '
asked Mr. Lovedayay.

"It is what all women do," she replied.

He did not dispute with her, although
his experience was not favourable to her
view. Inwardly he said : " What all women
could not do, if they tried ever so hard.

But then Nansie had perfection for a mother."
His thoughts travelled frequently now to the
early days when he loved the woman who
was not to become his wife, and it may be
that he accepted Nansie's companionship and
presence as in some sense a recompense for
his youthful disappointment, a meting out
of poetical justice, as it were.

Of all the hours of day and night the
evening hours were the most delightful, not
only to him but to Timothy, between whom
and Nansie there swiftly grew a bond of
sympathy and friendship. Before Nansie's
appearance Mr. Lovedayay's house was a comfortable
one to live and work in ; but from
the day she first set foot in it, it became a
home. Neither Timothy nor Mr. Lovedayay
could have given an intelligible explanation
of the nature of the change ; but they accepted
it in wonder and gratitude. Everything
was the same and yet not the same.
There was no addition to the furniture ; but

it appeared to be altogether different furniture
from that to which they had been accustomed.
It was brighter, cleaner, and in
its new and improved arrangement acquired
a new value. There were now white curtains
to the windows, and the windows themselves
were not coated with dust. The fireplaces
were always trim and well brushed up, the
fires bright and twinkling, the candlesticks
and all the metal-work smartly polished, the
table-linen white and clean, clothes with never
a button missing, socks and stockings with
never a hole in them. Nansie could have
accomplished all these things unaided ; but
Timothy was so anxious to be employed that
she would not pain him by refusing his assistance.
She had another reason — a reason
which she did not disclose, and which Mr.
Lovedayay and Timothy were too inexperienced
to suspect — for accepting the lad's willing
service. She knew that a time was approaching
when it would be invaluable, and when

she would be unable to devote herself to these
domestic duties.

The evenings were the most delightful, as
has been stated. Then, the day's labour over
and everything being in order, they would
sit together in the little room at the back of
the shop and chat, or read, or pursue some
study or innocent amusement. Mr. Lovedayay
fished out an old draught-board, with draughts
and a set of chessmen, and was surprised to
find that Nansie was by no means an indifferent
draught-player, and that she knew
the moves of chess, in which her skill was
not so great. At one time of his life he
had been fond of backgammon, and he
taught Nansie the game, Timothy looking
on and learning more quickly than the fair
pupil whose presence brightened the home.
Timothy also made himself proficient in the
intricacies of chess, and within a few months
justified himself master, and gave odds. An
evening seldom passed without a reading

from a favourite author, Nansie's sweet, sympathetic
voice imparting a charm to passages
from which something valuable might have
been missed had they not been read aloud.
From this brief description it will be gathered
that Nansie's influence was all for good.

Thus time sped on, and Kingsley was still
absent. He wrote to Nansie regularly, and
she as regularly replied to his letters, never
missing a post. She wrote in her bedroom
always, and generally at night when-the
others were abed. In silence and solitude
she was better able to open her heart to her
husband. To say that she was entirely happy
apart from Kingsley would not be true, but
she had a spirit of rare hope and contentment,
and her gratitude for the shelter and
comfort of her new home was a counterbalance
to the unhappiness she would otherwise have
experienced.

"A. letter for you, Nansie," Mr. Lovedayay
would say.

Taking it eagerly, she would speed to her
room and read it again and again, drawing
hopeful auguries from words in which none
really lay. For although Kingsley's letters
were cheerfully and lovingly written, there
was nothing substantial in them in their
prospects of the future. They were all of the
present, of his doings, of his adventures, of
his travels, of what he had seen and done,
forming a kind of diary faithfully kept, but
with a strange blindness in respect of years
to come. At one time he was in France, at
another in Italy, at another in Germany, at
another in Russia.

Mr. Seymour," he wrote, "has an insatiable
thirst for travel, and will start off at
an hour's notice from one country to another,
moved seemingly by sudden impulses in
which there appears to be an utter lack of
system. It is inconvenient, but of course I
am bound to accompany him ; and there is,
after all, in these unexpected transitions a

charm to me who could never be accused
of being methodical. The serious drawback
is that I am parted from you. What pleasure
it would give me to have you by my side !
And you would be no less happy than I."

Then would follow a description of the
places they passed through and stopped at,
of people they met, and of small adventures
which afforded him entertainment, ending
always with protestations of love, the sincerity
of which could not be doubted. But Mr.
Lovedayay was never anything than grave when
Nansie read aloud to him extracts from her
husband's letters.

"Who is Mr. Seymour?" he asked.

ts A gentleman," replied Nansie.

"What is he, I mean?" was Mr. Lovedayay's
next question.

Nansie shook her head. " I have no
idea,"

Has your husband any idea ? "

I suppose he has."

You only suppose, Nansie."

"Yes, uncle, I can do nothing else,
because Kingsley lias never said anything
about it."

Surely, if he really knew," persisted Mr.
Lovedayay, " he would not be so silent on the
subject."

1 ' Perhaps you are right, uncle; perhaps
Kingsley does not really know."

"If Mr. Seymour were travelling with
any specific object in view, there would be
no need for secrecy. Say that he were an
enthusiast, that he had a craze, no matter
in what shape, he would not disguise it."

"Certainly not, uncle. Mr. Seymour must
be travelling simply for pleasure."

"Which is not a simple matter, Nansie,"
observed Mr. Lovedayay, "when a man runs
after it. I can imagine few things more laborious
and less likely of a satisfactory result.
Now, Nansie, what are your husband's duties
in his employment ? "

"He does not say, uncle."
"Do you think he has any ? "
I suppose so."
"More supposing, Nansie."
What else can I say, uncle ? "
"Nothing, my dear, and I am to blame
for worrying you. We will drop the subject."
"No," said Nansie, earnestly, "please do
not drop it."

Why should we continue it, Nansie ? "
"Because," replied Nansie, with a slight
flush on her face, " I am afraid you are doing
Kingsley an injustice."

"I should be sorry to do that," said Mr.
Lovedayay, very seriously.

I know you would," responded Nansie,
in a tone of affection, " and that is why I
want to set you right. You think that
Kingsley is concealing something from me.
He is not ; he loves me too well. You think
that I need some one to defend me. I do
not. It is only when a person is wronged

or oppressed that he needs a defender. No
one has ever wronged or oppressed me. On
the contrary, every one in the world is kind
to me — that is," she added hastily in correction,
for she thought of her husband's parents,
every one who knows me. Now you, uncle,"
she said, wistfully and tenderly, " before I
came here I dare say you had no great regard
for me."

I had not, Nansie."

It was only because you made a promise
to my dear father out of your kind heart,
and because you are an honourable man who
would not break his word, that you welcomed
me at first. And perhaps, too," her voice
faltered a little here, " because I resemble
my mother for whom you had an affection."

She paused, uncertain whether she had
gone too far ; but he inclined his head kindly
towards her, and said :

"You are speaking justly, Nansie. Goon,
if you have anything more to say."

Yes, uncle, I have something more to
say. That was your feeling for me at first ;
but since then — I say it humbly and gratefully
— I have been happy in the belief that
I have learnt something for myself."

u You have," said Mr. Lovedayay. " I love
you, Nansie."

It is so sweet to me to know it, dear
uncle," said Nansie, with tears in her eyes,
"that I am enabled to bear Kingsley's absence
I hope and pray it will not be for long —
with courage and resignation. And because
of that, because of the love which unites us,,
you must think well of Kingsley — you must
think always well of him. Uncle, he is the
soul of honour, truth, and unselfishness.
When he told me he loved me, and asked
me to marry him, he did not weigh the
consequences, as nearly every other man in
his position would have done."

He was rash," observed Mr. Lovedayay.

Would you censure him for it ? Did

VOL. II. g

he not behave as an honourable, noble-hearted
man ? "

"Undoubtedly. He has a worthy champion
in his wife."

"Ah, but it would distress me immeasurably
to feel that you believe he needs a champion,
or I a defender. You do not know him,
uncle ; when you do you will not fail to love
him. I do not say that he is worldly wise,
or quite fitted yet to battle with the future,
but that it is his earnest desire to fit himself
for what I feel will be a great struggle, and
to perform his duty in a manly way. No
man can do more, and, whatever may be our
future, I shall love and honour him to the
last."

My dear Nansie," said Mr. Lovedayay,
say that you are partly right in your views
of my feelings for your husband ; be content
now to know that you have won me over to
his side."

I am indeed content to know it, uncle."

But should that deprive a man of his
right to judge actions and circumstances ?
We sometimes condemn those whom we love
best."

It should not deprive him of the right,"
replied Nansie, adding, with what her husband
would have told her was feminine logic, " but
you must not condemn Kingsley."

I will not. I will apply ordinary tests.
When he took the situation with Mr. Seymour,
did he know anything of his employer ? "

11 Nothing ; but we were in great stress,
and Kingsley was compelled to take advantage
of his opportunity."

"Admitting that. But a man must face
his responsibilities, and discharge them to the
best of his ability."

Yes, uncle, to the best of his ability."

My dear, had you been a man, you
would have made a very good special
pleader. To continue. What is your husband's
salary ? "

g 2

A look of distress was in Nansie's eyes,
and she did not reply.

I infer," said Mr. Lovedayay, replying for
her, " that you do not know."

I fear I do," said Nansie, in a low tone.

Tell me, then."

I fear, uncle, that there is no salary
attached to the situation."

But there should be ? "

Yes, there should be."

Mr. Seymour, wishing to engage a gentleman
as part companion and part secretary,
must have been prepared to enter into some
kind of monetary arrangement. Whose fault
is it that the arrangement was not made ?
I will reply for you again. It must have
been Kingsley's fault. Not very practical,
Pansies

am afraid, uncle," said Nansie, speaking
slowly, and as though she were about to
commit an act of treason, " that Kingsley is
not very practical."

"But how is a man to get along in the
world," said Mr. Lovedayay, with a curious
mixture of decision and helplessness, "who
thus neglects his opportunities ? I am
speaking entirely in a spirit of kindness,
Nansie."

Yes, uncle, there's no occasion for you
to remind me of that. But how can you
blame Kingsley ? He meets Mr. Seymour
as one gentleman meets another. He is too
delicate-minded to broach the subject of
salary, and perhaps Mr. Seymour forgets
it."

"No, child, Mr. Seymour does not forget
it. He takes advantage of your husband,
and the consequence is that he is using a
man's services without paying for them.
And the consequence, further, is that valuable
time is being wasted and mis-spent.
Two or three weeks ago you commenced to
read to me something in one of your husband's
letters, and you suddenly stopped and

did not continue. It was about money. Am
I wrong in supposing that what you were
about to read was in reply to something you
had written in a letter to your husband ? "

You are not wrong, uncle."

Plainly, you asked him whether he could
not send you a little money ? "

Yes."

"And that was his reply. I can judge
what it was."

Uncle, he had none to 'send. He is
entirely dependent upon Mr. Seymour."

Who is not liberal ? "

"Yes, uncle."

Who is not only not liberal, but unjust?"


But that is not Kingsley's fault," pleaded
Pansies

am not so sure. Child, child, you
and your husband are like the children in
the wood, and you know their fate."

I should be content," said Nansie, mournfully,

for a moment overwhelmed — only fora
moment ; her mood changed instantly, and
with indescribable tenderness she said : "But
I want to live — to live ! "

There was a new note in her voice, and in
her eyes a dreamy look of exquisite happiness
which caused Mr. Lovedayay to wonder
as he gazed upon her. Never had she been
so beautiful as she was at that moment. In
the expression on her face was something
sacred and holy, and Mr. Lovedayay saw that
she was deeply stirred by emotions beyond his
ken.

"Nansie!"

Yes, uncle," said Nansie, awaking from
her dream.

You heard what I said ? "

Yes, uncle — but you must not blame
Kingsley ; you must not blame my dear
husband."

"I will not — strongly. Only I should
like you to consider what would have been

your position if you had not found me in
the London wilderness, or, having found me,
if I had proved to be hard-hearted instead
of a loving uncle."

What is the use of my considering it,"
she asked, in a tone of tender playfulness,
when I did find you, and when you proved
yourself to be the best of men ? It would
be waste of time, would it not ? Confess
now."

Upon my word," said Mr. Lovedayay, (C I
should almost be justified in being cross with
you if I did not suspect that any unreasonableness
in our conversation must spring
from me, in consequence of my not being
familiar with the ways of women. But you
shall not drive me completely from my point.
For your sake, Nansie, I regret that I am
poor. I never wished so much to be rich as
I do at the present time. You are attending
to me, Nansie ? "

f Yes, uncle."

Has your husband sent you any money
at all since he has been away ? "

"None, uncle. He has not had it to
send."

Yet you are in need of a little ? "

She looked at him, and her lips trembled
slightly ; and then again, a moment afterwards,
the same expression of dreamy happiness
stole into her face which he had observed
before.

Yes, uncle, a little, a very little. But I
shall manage ; I have already earn a trifle."

"In what way ? " inquired Mr. Lovedayay,
much mystified.

I got some needlework to do and am
being paid for it."

But in the name of all that's reasonable,"
exclaimed Mr. Lovedayay, " where and when
do you do your work ? "

"In my room of a night, uncle," replied
Nansie, blushing.

When we are all asleep," said Mr. Love-day,

with the nearest approach to a grumble
she had heard from his lips. " This must
not continue, Nansie. You will do your
work here of an evening and during the day,
if it is necessary."

"Yes, uncle, I will obey you. But "

her form swayed slightly, and she was compelled
to make an effort to keep herself from
swooning — " you must not be angry with me.
I am not very strong just now."

She brought her work down, and went on
with it before his eyes, and there was perfect
harmony between them. But still, in the
stillness of her room, when her uncle supposed
her to be abed, her ringers were busy
in their labour of tenderest love.

The event which occurred in Mr. Lovedayay's
house in Church Alley, and which caused
him perhaps the greatest excitement in his
life, will be explained by the following letter
which Nansie wrote to her husband two
months after the conversation between her
and her uncle narrated in the last chapter.

"My own dear Kingsley,

At length I am strong enough to
write to you, and it is a great joy to me
to sit down once more to speak to the beloved
wanderer of whom I think night and day.
I am sure that you must be with me, inspirit,
even in my dreamless sleep. You

will not be sorry to know that you are
not the only one now the thought of whom
makes my heart a garden of flowers. I
have a sweet treasure — surely the sweetest
that ever blessed a happy woman — lying
at my feet, and you will not begrudge
me. Oh, my dear Kingsley, if you were
with me at this moment, and we were looking
down together on the lovely, innocent face
of our darling, you would think as I do,
that heaven itself was shining in the little
room in which I am writing ! Everything is
so strangely beautiful that I can scarcely
believe I am living the same life I lived till
I became a happy, happy mother. It is not
the same — it is sweeter, purer, more precious ;
I seem to hear angelic music even in the
silence which surrounds me. I know what
produces it. I put my face close to my
darling's mouth, and I can just hear her soft
breathing.

You will forgive me, will you not, for

not having written to you for so long a
time ? I could not help it, you see. I know
from your last letter that you received the
one my uncle wrote to you, and that you
would have flown to my side if you had had
the means. It seems so cruel that you should
be in such straits for money. Why do you
not ask Mr. Seymour straightforwardly to
pay you what he must owe you ? It must
be a good sum by this time. But perhaps
it is wrong of me to say to you, why do you
not do this or that ? — for surely you must
know what is best to be done, and the right
time to do it. It is easy to judge for others,
is it not, my dearest ? I have the fullest
faith and confidence in you ; and, my dear,
you must not worry about me. My uncle is
the dearest friend I could have met with.
He is kindness itself, and I feel that he loves
me as if I were his daughter. And I have
money — not much, Kingsley, dear, but enough
to go on with. Before baby came I earn

some, and presently, when she can crawl,
and walk, and speak — oh, Kingsley, the wonder
of it ! — I shall earn more. Uncle is
so good to me that I need very little ; but
still some things are necessary which uncle
does not understand about, and he has not
more than he knows what to do with. Then,
of course, I am an expense to him ; but he
never makes the least mention of that — he is
too considerate, and I know he is glad to
have me with him — and to have baby, too,
although I fancy he does not quite know
yet what to make of the darling. Indeed,
I half think he is frightened of her. I see
him sometimes looking at her w T hen she is
asleep with such a funny look in his eyes
that I can hardly keep from laughing. The
idea of a great big man being frightened of
a little baby ! But, Kingsley, dear (I would
not confess it to anybody but you), I, too,
am frightened of baby a little sometimes,
when she lies in my lap, staring at me

solemnly with her beautiful eyes — the colour
of yours, dearest — wide, wide open, without
even so much as a blink in them. She seems
to be reading me through and through.
What are you thinking of, darling ? ' I
whisper to her ; and though of course she
cannot answer me, I am sure that she understands,
and that I should be very much astonished
if I knew what was passing through
her mind. She is going to be a very wise
little body — I can see that — and very
sweet [and beautiful, and a great blessing tous.
But she is that already, the greatest, the
most precious that has ever fallen to my lot.
You see, my dear husband, I look upon baby
and you as almost one person ; I cannot
think of one without the other, it is impossible
to separate you ; so that when I say
that baby is the greatest blessing that was
ever given to me, I mean you as well as our
darling. . . .

I have been obliged to stop ; baby

woke up, and we had a happy hour together.
Now she is asleep again. She is
so good, not at all fretful as some babies
are, and when she cries (which is really
not often) it is a good healthy cry, which
makes uncle say that her lungs are in fine
condition. . . .

"I have been reading over w T hat I have
written, and I stopped at the part where
I speak of baby presently being able to
walk and talk. Long before that, my dear
Kingsley, I hope that you will be with us,
and that we may be all living together.
Do not think I am desirous of urging you to
any other course than that which you consider
right, but the happiness of our being
together again would be so great! Is there
any chance of Mr. Seymour coming to England
and settling down here, and keeping
you as his secretary at a fair salary ? Then
we could have a little home of our own, and
you could go to Mr. Seymour in the morning£

and come home in the evening, and we
should have one day in the week to ourselves.
It is not a very great deal to ask
for, but if some kind fairy would only grant
it I should be supremely happy. Surely,
surely, the future must have something good
in store for us !

I have told you in my letters all about
Timothy Chance, and how good and helpful
he has been. Well, my dear Kingsley,
until baby came L looked upon Timothy
as my knight, my own special cavalier whom
I could depend upon for service at any hour
I chose to call upon him ; but I think now
that he has divided his allegiance, at least
half of it going to baby. Timothy is an extraordinary
lad, and uncle has a great opinion
of him. Putting his duties in uncle's business
out of the question, and putting baby
and me out of the question, Timothy seems
to have only one idea — eggs and fowls. He
is now the proud owner of four fine hens,

VOL. IT. h

and his spare minutes (not too many) are
devoted to them. He reads up every book
he can lay hands upon that treats of fowls,
and is really very clever in his proceedings.
He made me laugh by saying : ' If fowls
won't lay they must be made to lay ; ' and
he studies up food to coax them. It is very
amusing ; but Timothy is so earnest that
you cannot help respecting him, and respecting
him more because he is successful. He
shows me his figures, and is really making a
profit every month. He is now drawing out
plans for constructing a movable fowl-house,
in compartments, each compartment accommodating
eight fowls, and capable of being
taken down and put up again in a wonderfully
short time. Uncle says the plans areas
nearly perfect as' possible, and that he
should not wonder if Timothy made a fortune
one of these fine clays. Timothy has
insisted upon my accepting two new-laid
evcrs a week. Uncle and he had some words

about them at first, uncle wanting to pay
for them and Timothy refusing to accept
any money ; but the good lad was so hurt
and took it so much to heart that I persuaded
uncle to let him have his way.

Why do I write all this to you, dear
Kingsley ? To show you that I am in the
midst of kindness, and that although you
have not as yet been very fortunate, there is
much to be grateful for. Remember our
conversation, my darling, and never, never
lose heart. Courage ! courage ! as you have
said many times ; and it will help you to
feel assured that there are loving hearts
beating here for you, and friends holding
out willing hands. Why, if a poor, imperfectly
educated lad like Timothy looks
forward to making a fortune out of such
simple things as eggs, what may you not do,
with your advantages and education ? All will
be well, and there is a happy future before us.

"I am tired, and have a dozen things

h 2

to do, or I would keep on talking to you
for hours. But I must really finish now.
Baby sends you her dearest, dearest love.
Indeed she does. I asked her, and upon
my word, Kingsley, dear, she crowed and
laughed. She is the most wonderful thing
in the world, there is no doubt of that. I
kiss her a hundred times for her dear papa,
and I blow her kisses to you, and kiss them
into the words I am writing. Our hearts
are with you ; our dearest love is yours. Oh,
my darling ! to close this letter is like
bidding you good-bye again. Take all our
love, which is for ever blossoming for you.
I close my eyes, and think that you are by
my side ; and I press you to my heart, which
beats only for you and our darling child.
What name shall I give her ?

Good-bye, and God bless and guard you,
my own dear love.

"Your faithful, loving wife,

Nansie."

History repeats itself. The fortunes of
Timothy Chance were turned by a fire —
whether for good or evil, so far as regards
himself, had yet to be proved. He was to
go through another experience of a similar
kind, in which, as on the first occasion,
those who befriended him were the greatest
sufferers.

Nansie had to wait for more than a month
before she received an answer to her last
letter from Kingsley. He and his employer,
it appears, had been continually on the move,
and the letter which Mr. Lovedayay had written
to him could not have reached him. It was
by a lucky chance that Nansie's letter with

the news that he was a father, fell into his
hands after a long delay ; and she gathered
from his reply that some of his own communications
to her must have miscarried.
This last letter which she received was far
from encouraging. It was in parts wild and
incoherent; the cheerfulness which had pervaded
his previous missives was missing ; the
writer seemed to be losing hope.

I am learning some hard lessons,"
Kingsley wrote, " and am beginning to doubt
-whether there is any truth or justice left in
the world."

This was distressingly vague, for no explanation
of Kingsley's moody reflection was
forthcoming. It did not even appear that
he was drawing consolation, as he had often
done during his absence, from the thought
that Nansie was ever ready with open arms to
comfort him.

Instead of advancing myself," Kingsley
wrote, " by the step I have taken, I have

thrown myself back. It is a miserable confession
to make, but there it is, and wherever
I go I see, not the shadow, but the actual

to

presentments of misery and injustice. Can
any man inform me under what conditions
of life happiness is to be found?"

As was to be expected, the letter was not
wanting in affectionate endearments and in

o

expressions of joy at the birth of their child.
"He is miserable," thought Nansie, "because
we are not together. When we are once
more united, will it be wise to consent to
another separation?" She felt that he had
need for the companionship of a stronger
nature than his own, and she prayed for the
time to come quickly when she would be
with him to keep his courage from fainting
within him.

The very next day she was comforted by
the receipt of another letter from Kingsley,
in which was displayed his more cheerful,
and perhaps more careless characteristics.

What could I have been thinking of,"
he said, " when I wrote you such a strange,
stupid letter as I did yesterday ? I must
have lost my wits, and I hasten to atone for
it by sending you another in a better and
more natural vein. Burn the first, my dear
Nansie, so that it may not be in existence to
reproach me. A nice piece of inconsistency
you have married, my dear ! I do not remember
ever to have been so cast down as I
have been for two or three days past ; but I
should keep that to myself, and not burden
you with a share of my despondency. It
has been my habit always to look with a
light spirit upon circumstances, whether they
were in my favour or against me ; and if I
am to replace that by becoming savage and
morose, I shall be laying up for myself a
fine stock of unhappiness. So I determine,
for your sake and mine, and for the sake
of your dear little bairn, to whistle dull care
away, and to make the best of things instead

of the worst. Here am I, then, my usual
self again, loving you with all my heart and
soul, longing to be with you, longing to hold
our dear bairn in my arms, longing to work
to some good end. The question is, how to
set about it, and what kind of end I am to
work for. There is the difficulty — to fall
into one's groove, as we have decided when
we have talked about things, and then to go
sailing smoothly along. Yes, that is it, and
we must set ourselves to work to find out the
way. I may confess to you, my dear wife,
that up to this point success has not crowned
my efforts ; in point of fact, to put it plainly,
I am thus far a failure. However, I cannot
see how I am to blame. If I had had the
gift of prophecy I should never have joined
Mr. Seymour, but how was one to tell what
would occur ? Now, my dear, you urge me
to make some approaches to Mr. Seymour
with respect to money matters. Well, awkward
as the position is, I have endeavoured

to do so, but have never got far enough, I
am afraid, to make myself understood. My
fault, I dare say, but just consider. There
is nothing of the dependent in my relations
with Mr. Seymour ; he received me as an
equal and we have associated as equals ;
when w T e first met there was no question
raised as to a salary, and there has been none
since. How, then, am I to go to him and
say : ' You are indebted to me in such or such
a sum ' ? It would be so coarse, and I do not
see justification for it. If I have made a mistake
I must suffer for it, and must not call
upon another person to do so for me. That
would not be consistent, or honourable, or
gentlemanly. After all, my dearest, the standard
of conduct is not arbitrary. What it
would be right for Mr. Jones or Mr. Smith
to do would not be right for me, and
the reverse. What is to be done, then ?
Having made a mistake, I am too proud
perhaps not quite broken in yet — to

get out of it in the most honourable way
I can. It is in my power to say to Mr.
Seymour : ' A thousand thanks for the pleasure
you have afforded me and for the courtesies
you have extended towards me, but
my time is precious, and I must not keep away
from my wife any longer.' That would be
all right, but to follow it up with a request
for a loan to enable me to get back to England
would be so mean and coarse that I
could never bring my tongue to utter the
words. Can you understand my position,
my darling ? It is a humiliation to me to
ask the question, but I am in a cleft stick,
and am positively powerless to help myself.
What a pity, what a pity that my original
idea of living in a travelling caravan could
not be carried out ! Do you remember that
delicious evening, dear ? I should like to pass
such another, and I dare say I should commit
myself again to the foolish wish that it would
last for ever.

Now, my dearest, I am quite cheerful
and light-hearted, but there is something
I must tell you. I must warn you first,
though, that this is a secret between ourselves
; on no account must it be disclosed
to your uncle or to any other person. Much
may hang upon it — I do not know what ; I
prefer not to think ; but at all events I must
do nothing base or treacherous. If confidence
has been reposed in me I must not
betray it. But mark what I say, dear ; it is
only lately that I have come to a knowledge
or a suspicion of certain things, and no hint
must escape me of that knowledge or suspicion
(it is a mixture of both) to any except
yourself.

u In speaking of Mr. Seymour you would
naturally suppose that you were speaking of
an Englishman, the name being unmistakably
English. But Mr. Seymour is not an Englishman,
and therefore the name must be
assumed. As to this I have no definite

information, but it is so certainly. It did
not occur to me to mention to you that Mr.
Seymour was probably a foreigner, the matter
seeming to be of such small importance. He
speaks English fluently, with the slightest
accent ; speaks also French, German, Italian,
and Russian, as to the precisely correct accent
of any one of which I am not a competent
judge. I am not given to curiosity, and
have a habit of believing what I am told ;
that is, I do not ]took much below the surface
of things. Now, this may lead a man into a
scrape.

Were I alone, without wife and child, I
should, I dare say, allow myself to drift according
to circumstances, but I am bound to
consider you. Well, then, Mr. Seymour,
with whose right name I am not acquainted,
has ideas with which I am not sure whether
I agree ; he has a mission with which I
am not sure whether I sympathise. There
are large movements in public affairs which

require deep investigation before one finally
and firmly makes up one's mind. Take, for
example, the revolutionary movement — the
idea that all people should be upon an
equality, the mission to bring this about.
I had better not write to greater length
upon this theme. If you do not quite understand
my meaning I will explain it more
fully when we are together again. In saying
that I am deeply anxious to get back to
England soon, and that I must by some
means manage it, I am thinking more of
you than of myself. Shortly before writing
the letter which I sent to you yesterday, I
allowed myself to be led away by certain
disclosures which were made to me for the
purpose of binding me to a certain course
Mr. Seymour and the friends he meets
and makes thinking me ripe for it, perhaps,
and giving me credit for being cleverer than
I am ; and it was an amateur enthusiasm
which drove me to conclusions to which

I would prefer not to commit myself — again,
more for you and our dear little one's sake
than for my own. There ! The confession
is made ; perhaps you can thread your way
through, my mysterious allusions. And now,
my darling "

Then the letter went on, and was concluded
with expressions of love and tenderness,
and occasional drifting into whimsical bypaths,
in which the nature of the old Kingsley
Nansie loved so well was faithfully depicted.

On that evening Nansie nerved her courage
to speak to her uncle about Kingsley 's desire
to return to England, and her own that he
should do so without delay.

"He is wasting his time," she said, "and
cannot but feel it deeply that I am living
upon your kindness."

To which you are heartily welcome,
Nansie," said Mr. Lovedayay.

"I know that, dear uncle; but is it as it
should be?"

Without answering the question, Mr. Love-day
said : " Certainly it would be better that
your husband should be at some profitable
work. It is a pity, Nansie, that you did
not marry a man who was accustomed to
work."

It is not a pity, uncle. There is no
better man in the world than Kingsley."

It was only a reflection of mine, my
dear," said Mr. Lovedayay. " There is no reason
why Kingsley should not do well. But the
getting back "

There is the difficulty, uncle," said Nansie,
looking at him anxiously ; " the getting back
to London, and the commencement of a career."

Well, my dear, we must do what we
can. You would like to send him sufficient
to brings him from foreign lands into our
happy family circle. Understand, Nansie,
that we are to live together. You have made
me so accustomed to you that if you were
to leave my house you would leave desolation

behind you. I shall insist upon fair play.
Unfortunately, funds are rather low just now,
but I will manage it. Will ten pounds be
enough ? "

"I think it will, uncle. It must be asa
loan, though we shall never be able to repay
you for what you have done."

"There is nothing to repay, Nansie ; you
have given me more than value. Now we
will shut up shop."

So early ?

"Yes, if you want your husband back so
quickly." He called Timothy, and gave him
instructions to close. "I know where I can
sell a parcel of books, and I must go and
strike the bargain. I will take Timothy
with me. While we are gone, write to your
husband, and tell him that you will send
him a draft for ten pounds tomorrow. Say,
if you like, that you have borrowed it from
me ; it will make him feel more in dependent,
and will show that he has a sincere friend in

VOL. IT. I

your old uncle. There, my dear ! there is
nothing to make a fuss over. A nice world
this would be if we did not lend a helping
hand to each other ! "

While he was gone Nansie wrote her
letter, and baby being asleep, ran out to post
it. It was long since she had felt so happy
and light-hearted. Kingsley was coming
back ; her beloved husband would soon be
with them. Grave troubles had already entered
into her life, but they seemed to vanish
as she dropped her letter into the post-office
box. All was bright again ; Kingsley was
coming back.

Returning, she related the good news to
baby, and told her she must put on her best
looks to welcome her papa. "And how
happy we shall be, baby'' she said, kissing
the child again and again, "now and
for evermore ! You see, baby, papa is never
going away again ; never ! never ! M

The room in which she sat was the first

floor front, looking out upon Church Alley,
and she saw a little ragged girl lingering
outside. The girl looked hungry, and Nansie,
with her baby in her arms, ran downstairs,
and from the house, and gave the poor girl
two-pence, which was all the money she had
in her purse. The girl scudded away to the
cook-shop, and Nansie went back to her
room.

"There are so many," she said, addressing
the baby again, lt so many hundreds — ah ! I
am afraid, baby, so many thousands — worse
off than we are ; ever so much worse off, my
darling pet. For they haven't got papa,
have they ? and they haven't got you ! But
the idea of my thinking that we are anything
but well off, when we are going to be as
happy as the days are long ! I ought to be
ashamed of myself, oughtn't I ? You mustn't
tell papa that I ever had a thought of repining,
or it would grieve him. You must

know, baby — I hope you are listening pro

2

percy, sweet, with your great beautiful eyes
so wide open, and looking so wise as you do —
you must know, baby, that you have the very
best and noblest papa that a baby ever had or
ever could have. And he is coming home,
and you must be very, very good, or you will
frighten him away ! "

Then she sang the child asleep, and sat in
the dusk musing happily with her baby in her
lap.

Suddenly she started to her feet with a
look of alarm. She smelt fire. Snatching
up her baby she ran into the rooms in which
fires had been burning, but all was safe there,
and she saw no cause for alarm. She w r as
standing in the sitting-room looking about
in her endeavour to account for the smell
when a cry of " Fire ! " from the adjoining
house lent wings to her feet, and the next
moment she was in the court, with a number
of people about her in a state of great excitement.
As to the cause of her alarm

there was no doubt now. Tongues of flame
darted from the windows, and instantaneously,
as it seemed, slid into Mr. Love-day's
shop. Hustled this way and that, and
pressing her baby close to her breast, Nansie
was so distracted that she could not afterwards
give an intelligible account of what
she saw ; except that there appeared to be
thousands of people thronging into Church
Alley and being thrust back by the police,
that the air was filled with flame and smoke
and wild cries, that women were wringing
their hands and screaming that they were
ruined, that fire-engines were dashing up the
narrow path, and firemen were climbing on to
the roofs of the houses, and that, turning faint
and reeling to the ground, she was caught
by some humane person and borne to a safe
house, where she and her baby received
attention. She was unconscious of this
kindness for some little while, and when she
came to her senses Mr. Lovedayay and Timothy

were bending over her. Timothy's face was
quite white, and he was in a state of great
agitation, but Mr. Lovedayay was composed and
grave. The people in the room were saying
it was a shame that the police would not
allow him to go to his burning shop, but hein
answer, said that they were right in preventing
him.

"What good could I do?" he said. "I
should only be a hindrance. My great
anxiety was for you, Nansie, and your baby,
and when I heard you were here I came on
at once. You must have received a terrible
fright, my dear. You were not hurt, I hope?"

No," she answered, she was not hurt,
and she marvelled at his composure. Some
other person in the throng was commenting
audibly upon his calmness, and received for
answer the reply from a neighbour that Mr.
Lovedayay must be well insured.

No," he said, turning to the speakers,
I am not insured for a penny."

They were surprised to hear this bad news,
and poured condolence upon him.

"Uncle," whispered Nansie, pulling his
head down to hers, " will it hurt you very
much ? "

"That has to be seen, my dear," he replied,
with a cheerful smile.

"Not in spirits," she continued, gazing at
him in pity and admiration ; "I know now
what real courage is. But in your business."

If what I've heard is true," said Mr.
Lovedayay, "I am being burnt out stock and
block, and shall have no business left. In
which case, Timothy, you will lose a situation."

"Don't think of me, sir," said Timothy,
ruefully. " Think of yourself."

I shall have plenty of time to do that,
my lad."

"This is the second time," said Timothy,
"that I've been burnt out of a situation. I
had better not take another. I do nothing
but bring misfortune upon my masters."

Nonsense, Timothy, nonsense. It is the
fortune of war, and we must fight through
these defeats as best we can."

He asked for the mistress of the house
they were in, and inquired whether she
had a furnished room to let. There happened
to be one fortunately on the second
floor, and Mr. Lovedayay at once engaged it,
and assisted Nansie upstairs. They had
hardly been in the room a moment when
the landlady appeared with a cradle for
baby.

"It ain't mine," she observed; "Mrs.
Smithson, next door, run and got it for you.
She's a good creature is Mrs. Smithson, and
has had seven of her own. She expects her
next in about three weeks."

Nansie sent her thanks to Mrs. Smithson,
and thanked the landlady also.

Oh, that's all right," said the landlady.
Mothers are mothers, you know, and Mrs.
Smithson is that fond of babies that it's my

belief she could live on 'em." In which description
of Mrs. Smithson's fondness for
babies the landlady did not seem to consider
that there was anything at all alarming.
"And look here, my dear," she continued,
don't you take on. That's my advice —
don't take on. The misfortune's bad enough,
but there's worse, a thousand times. I'll see
that you're nice and comfortable — and I say,
Mr. Lovedayay, you can stop here a fortnight
for nothing, you not being insured, and being
always so kind and obliging to everybody.
There's nobody better thought of than you,
and it's a pity we ain't all of us rich."

"A great pity," said Mr. Lovedayay,
shaking the landlady's hand, " and I am
grateful to you for your offer ; but I have
no doubt we shall be able to scrape up the
rent. If you could make my niece a cup
of tea now."

Ay, that I will," said the good woman,
and fresh, too, not the leavings ; and she'll

take it from me as a compliment, won't you,
my dear ? "

Nansie nodded with a cheerful smile, and
the landlady, having leant over the baby
and kissed it softly, and declared that it
was the sweetest, prettiest picture that ever
was, departed to make the tea.

That is the best of misfortunes like this,"
observed Mr. Loved ay ; " it brings out the
bright side of human nature. Sudden prosperity
often has the opposite effect."

"But is it true, uncle," said Nansie, "that
you will lose everything — everything ? y '

There will in all probability be salvage,"
said Mr. Lovedayay, thoughtfully, " worth a
pound or two, perhaps ; maybe less. I shall
prepare myself for the worst. Who is
there ? "

This was in response to a knock at the
door, and Timothy presented himself with
four new-laid es.

We will accept them, my lad," said

Mr. Lovedayay. " How is the fire getting

on f

a r

They've got tight hold of it now, sir,"
replied Timothy, "and it's going down."

"And the shop, Timothy?" Timothy
made no reply in words, but his face told
the rueful tale. "Eh, well, it can't be
helped. I'll be out presently and have a
look round for myself. Yes," he continued
when Timothy was gone, " I shall be prepared
for the worst. Then all will be profit
that falls short of my anticipations. I might
worry myself by lamenting that I did not
get insured, but it would do no good. Let
me get it over by declaring that it was a
piece of inconceivable folly to neglect so
necessary a safeguard. The mischief is that
I seldom if ever kept a balance in cash. As
fast as it came in I spent it in fresh stock ;
it was a mania of mine, and I have paid
for it. I shall have to commence the world
over again, that is all. Nansie, my dear,

I regret what has occurred for your sake ;
it will, I fear, prevent my doing what I
wished. We will not have anything hang
over ; it will be wisest to speak of what is in
our minds. Did you write to your husband ? "

"Yes, uncle."

Is your letter posted ? "

"Yes."

Well, it cannot be recalled. If you
will give me his address I will write
to him before I go to bed, and make him
acquainted with the calamity which has
overtaken us. I think, Nansie, that I have
learnt something of your character since you
came to me, and I give you credit for possessing
courage."

"I am not easily daunted, uncle. Weare
all of us learning lessons as we pass
through life."

"They come in different shapes to different
persons, and those are wise who can
profit by experience. Some persons are overwhelmed

by visitations of trouble ; to some
they impart new strength and vigour. Let
this be the case with us ; let us resolve not
to be cast down, but to be up and doing
with the best courage we can summon to
our aid. It is a matter for thankfulness
that bodily we are uninjured, and that baby
is safe and well."

"You are a true comforter, dear uncle,"
said Nansie, pressing his hand.

"We might continue talking for hours,
and could add little more to what we have
already said and resolved. Here is our good
friend, the landlady, with the tea. I will
leave you together, and go and see how things
are setting n."

There are three houses gutted, they
say," said the landlady, " yours and the one
on each side of it. It is a mercy the whole
alley isn't down."

It is, and I am glad for those who have
escaped."

Don't go without a cup of tea, Mr. Love-day,"
said the landlady, " I've brought up
one for you. I thought you would prefer it
in your own room, my dear," she said,
addressing Nansie, "there's such a lot of
gossiping going on downstairs. Ah, that's
sensible of you " — as Mr. Lovedayay took the
cup of tea she poured out for him — " there's
nothing like keeping up your strength. You
must think of that, my dear, because of your
baby. Half the neighbourhood wanted to
come up and see you, but I wouldn't let 'em.
If I put my foot down upon, one thing more
than another it's gossiping. They've found
out how the fire occurred, Mr. Lovedayay."

How was it ? "

It was that new lodger the Johnson
took in last week. He takes the room and
keeps to it, and isn't known to do a stroke
of work ; he does nothing but drink. There
was a lamp alight on the table, and some
papers about. What does he do but upset

the lamp, and then run away. He's drinking
now at the ' Royal George.' "

He was not hurt, then ? "

Not him ! He had sense enough to run.
Not that he could have done much good by
stopping ! But what I say is, he ought to
be punished for it."

So ought all confirmed drunkards. Fires
are not the only mischief they cause. They
break hearts and ruin useful lives. I will
not be long, Nansie."

"What a man he is!" exclaimed * the
landlady, gazing after him admiringly.
There ain't another like him in all Whitechapel.
Don't cry, my dear, don't cry ; it
won't be good for baby. With such a friend
as your uncle, everything's sure to come
right ! "

Mr. Manners, the great contractor, sitting
in his study at a table spread with legal
documents and papers relating to his vast
transactions, was informed by a man-servant
that a stranger wished to see him.

Who is he ? " inquired Mr. Manners.

I don't know, sir."

Did he not give you his name ? "

I asked him for it, sir, and he said you
did not know him, but that he came on very
particular business, and must see you."

Must ! "

That is what he said, sir."

Mr. Manners considered a moment. He
had finished the writing upon which he

had been engaged, and had a few minutes'
leisure.

What kind of man ? "

Neither one kind nor another, sir."

What do you mean ? "

That he might be a gentleman, sir, and
oughtn't. It's hard to say."

"It generally is nowadays. Show him in."

The servant retired, and ushering in Mr.
Lovedayay, left the room.

"Well, sir?" said Mr. Manners. * The
contractor did not speak uncivilly, for the
appearance of Mr. Lovedayay, who was fairly
well attired, was in his favour ; he might
be a smaller contractor, or an inventor, or
anything that was respectable.

I have ventured to visit you, sir," said
Mr. Lovedayay, " without first seeking an introduction,
upon a matter of importance."

"My servant said upon particular business."



He was scarcely correct, sir. I can

VOL. II. K

hardly call my errand business, but it is
no less important than the most important
business."

It is usual to send in a card, or a name."

My name you will probably recognise,
and I did not give it to the servant from fear
that you might have refused to see me."

This sounds like an intrusion What
may be your name ? "

"Lovedayay, sir."

Mr. Manners did not start or betray agitation,
but he looked keenly at his visitor.
He was a man of method and had on all
occasions complete control over his passions.
He recognised the name, the moment it was
uttered, as that of the girl for whom his son
had deserted him. Therefore, the name of
an enemy ; undoubtedly the name of an intruder.


"It is a name with which you suppose me
to be familiar ? "
Yes, sir."

I ask the question simply because there
are coincidences, and I make it a rule
to avoid mistakes. If you come from my
son "

I do not, sir."

But you are in association with him ?
You know him ? "

Only indirectly, sir. I have never seen
your son."

I refuse to take part in mysteries. You
are related to the young woman for whom
my son threw over his duty to me."

I am the young lady's uncle."

And your visit is in furtherance of an
appeal from her or on her behalf ? "

On her behalf, but not from her. I
did not inform her that I was coming."

"The information is of no interest tome.

The appeal you speak of is of the

usual kind. It is superfluous to ask if you

are rich."

I am not, sir."

k 2

"Poor?"

Yes, sir."

"Very poor ? "

"Very poor."

His frankness, his bearing, his aspect
compelled a certain amount of respect, and
it did not soften Mr. Manners to be made
to feel this.

Had you any hand in this marriage ? "
demanded Mr. Manners.

"None, sir. Had my advice been solicited,
I should have been strongly against
it. I am not going too far to say that I
should not have sanctioned it, and should
have thrown in what small amount of authority
I possessed to prevent it, if your
consent had not been first asked and obtained."


This view of the matter appeared to strike
Mr. Manners, and he regarded his visitor
with closer attention ; but presently he
frowned ; it was as though the honour of

the alliance was on Nansie's side instead of
Kingsley's.

I will not inquire into your reasons,"
he said, " except in so far as to ask whether
your brother, the young woman's father, who,
I understand, is dead "

Yes, sir, he is dead."

Whether he made any effort to prevent
the marriage ? I speak of it as a marriage,
although I have my reasons for doubting
whether it could have been legally entered
into."

Sir ! " exclaimed Mr. Lovedayay, much
astonished.

"I decline discussion," said Mr. Manners.
I am not an idle speaker, and I know what
I mean. We will call it a marriage. It does
not affect the conduct of my son towards
me. You heard my question. If you have
an objection to answer it I shall not complain."


I have no objection, sir. My brother

knew nothing whatever of it until it was too
late to interfere. The young people acted
for themselves, without consulting a single
person. It was a secret marriage."

Mr. Manners smiled. "Exactly. But
my question is still not answered."

My brother would have felt as I feel,
sir. Without your sanction he would have
withheld his consent, and would doubtless
have succeeded in preventing the union."

It would have been well if it had not
taken place."

I agree with you, sir."

Mr. Manners frowned again. His visitor
was taking high ground.

Come to the precise object of your visit,"
he said.

The lamentable severance of the affectionate
relations which existed between you
and your son has been productive of much
suffering. The young people have been
driven hard — so hard that in the endeavour

made by your son to obtain some sort of
position which would hold out the hope of
his being able to support her, they were
compelled to separate. Your son went
abroad and left his wife here in England,
doubly orphaned, friendless, penniless, and
unprotected. She appealed to me for shelter
and temporary support, and I received her
willingly, gladly. I will not indulge in
sentiment, for I know you by repute to bea
practical man, and it may be not "only
distasteful to you, but it may place me ina
false light — as making a lame effort too

o

influence you by means of which you maybe
suspicious ; but it is due to my niece that
I should declare in your presence that a
sweeter, purer, more lovable woman does
not breathe the breath of life. She is a
lady, well educated, gentle, and refined ; and
whatever value you may place upon my
statement — which I solemnly avow to be
true — you must agree that it is to the credit

of your son that if he chose for his mate a
lady who was poor, he at least chose one
who, if fortune placed her in a high position,
would be fitted to occupy it. Of this it is
in your power to assure yourself, and you
would then be able to judge whether I speak
falsely or truly. Your son has been absent
from England now for many months, and
from his letters to his wife it may be
gathered that he has been disappointed in
his hopes and expectations, and it is certain
that he has not benefited pecuniarily by the
effort he made."

"He is reaping the fruits of his disobedience,"
said Mr. Manners.

Mr. Lovedayay made no comment on the
interruption, but proceeded. " The consequence
is that he has been unable to send
his wife the smallest remittance. Until to-day
this has been of no importance, as I was ina
position to discharge the obligation I took
upon myself when I received her into my

home. Your son's affairs abroad became so
desperate (and, in one vague sense, possibly
compromising) that it was decided yesterday
between my niece and myself to send him
money to bring him home, in order that he
might make another effort here to obtain a
livelihood. I am speaking quite plainly, sir,
and without ornament of any kind, and you
will see to what straits your son is reduced."

He is justly served," said Mr. Manners.

"It was but a small sum of money that
was required," continued Mr. Lovedayay, " but
I did not possess it. I had, however, books
which I could sell — I am a bookseller by
trade, sir — and last evening I left my house
and place of business to negotiate the sale.
Meanwhile my niece wrote to your son that
I would supply her with the means for his
return home, and that she would send him
the money to-day. Upon my return, two or
three hours later, I found my house in flames.
The account of the fire, with my name, is in

this morning's papers, and you may verify
my statement. I was not insured, and
nothing was saved. I am a besfSfar."

It is, after all, then," said Mr. Manners,
with a certain air of triumph, " on your own
behalf that you are making this appeal to me."

No, sir," replied Mr. Lovedayay, " I want
nothing for myself; I shall rub along somehow,
and hope to lift my head once more
above adverse circumstance. My appeal is
on behalf of your son's wife. I am unable to
fulfil the promise I made to furnish her with
the small sum required to bring your son
home. I ask you respectfully and humbly
to give it to me or to send it to her direct to
this address." He laid a piece of paper, with
writing on it, on the table. " If you would
prefer to hand it to her personally she will
call upon you for the purpose."

"You have spoken temperately," said
Mr. Manners, with cold malice in his tones.
What is the amount you require ? "

Ten pounds, sir," replied Mr. Lovedayay,
animated by a sudden and unexpected hope.

Mr. Manners touched a bell on his table.
A servant appeared.

Show this person to the door," he said.

Is that your answer, sir ? " asked Mr.
Lovedayay, sadly.

Show this person to the door," repeated
Mr. Manners to the servant.

I implore you," said Mr. Lovedayay,
strongly agitated. " When I tell you that
you have a grandchild but a few weeks old ;
that the poor lady, your son's wife, is in a
delicate state of health "

"Did you hear what I ordered?" said
Mr. Manners to the servant, and repeated
again : " Show this person to the door."

From that day commenced for Nansie and
her uncle the hard and bitter battle of life.
All that had gone before was light in comparison.
Without money, without friends ina
position to give them practical assistance,
they had to depend upon themselves for
the barest necessities. Confident and hopeful
as he was, Mr. Lovedayay found it impossible
to raise a new business out of the
ashes of the fire which had ruined him.

I must begin again," he said.

Had any employment offered he would
have accepted it, however uncongenial it
might have been ; but nothing came his
way. Golden apples only fall to those who

have already won fortune's favours. To
those most in need of them they are but
visions.

He was not the kind of man to waste
his time ; besides, he knew how precious
it was. An idle day now would be inviting
even harder punishment in the future.
As the mountain would not come to Mahomet,
Mahomet went to the mountain —
that is, to a newspaper office, where he laid
out a shilling or two in fourth and fifth
editions, and bravely hawked his wares in
the most likely thoroughfares. The day's
labour over, he found himself the richer by
nineteen pence.

Come now," he said to Nansie, gaily,
that is not so bad. In a little while we
shall grow rich."

His thought was, not that nineteen pence
a day would make them rich, but would keep
the wolf from the door. Strange that in
this the most civilised of countries we should

snatch a phrase pregnant with terror from
savage times and savage lands.

"The great difficulty," he said, "is my
voice. Young rascals beat me with their
lungs. They ring out the news ; I can
but quaver out the tempting morsels of
murders and suicides. How I envy the
youngsters ! Still I shall manage, I shall

manage."

Both he and Nansie had secret thoughts
which they kept from each other.

Three mouths to feed," thought Nansie.
It would be easier for him had he but his

own."

She must not think she is a burden tome,"
thought Mr. Lovedayay, " or I shall lose
her."

He would have suffered anything to prevent
a separation. Strong human links grew
out of her helplessness ; he was Nansie's
protector, and it made him glad. In those
early days of the new struggle she could

do nothing to help the home, which consisted
of two very small rooms at the top of a
working man's house. The fright of the fire
had weakened her, and weeks passed before
she was strong enough to put her shoulder
to the wheel. Her uncle did not tell her
of his visit to Kingsley's father ; silence was
the truest mercy. And it happened that
within a very short time doubts of Kingsley's
faithfulness and honesty rose in his mind.
The cause of this lay in the fact that from
the day of the fire no letter from Kingsley
reached them. It made him indignant to
note Nansie's sufferings as day after day
passed by without news.

"Do you think the letters have miscarried
? " she asked.

Letters don't miscarry," replied Mr.
Lovedayay.

She looked at him apprehensively ; his
voice, if not his words, conveyed an accusation
against the absent one.

You believe lie has not written," she
said.

"I am sure he has not written," said
Mr. Lovedayay.

Then something must have happened to
him," she cried. " He is ill and penniless, and
I cannot help him ! "

♦ " If I had but a magic ring," thought Mr.
Lovedayay, but he said no word aloud.

He reasoned the matter out with himself.
On one side an innocent, unworldly, trustful
woman of the people ; on the other, the son
of a man of fabulous wealth awakened from
his dream. For this summer - lover, here
was a life of poverty and struggle ; there, a
life of luxury and ease. To judge by human
laws, or rather, by the laws which governed
the class to which Kingsley Manners belonged,
which path would the young man
choose ? " It is more than likely," thought
Mr. Lovedayay, "that the scoundrel has made
his peace with his father, and has resolved to

cast her off. But he is her husband "-

His contemplations were suddenly arrested.
Words uttered by Kingsley's father recurred
to him. " I speak of it as a marriage,
although I have my reasons for doubting
whether it could have been legally entered
into." What if there was some foundation
for these words ? What if they were true ?
He did not dare to speak to Nansie of this.
She would have regarded it as base and
disloyal, and the almost certain result would
have been to part them for ever. So he
held his peace out of fear for himself, out
of pity for her.

Thus three months passed. Nansie had
regained her physical strength, but her heart
was charged with woe.

"I cannot bear this suspense any longer,"
she said to her uncle. " I will go to Kingsley's
father, and ask him if he has received
any news of my husband."

Mr. Lovedayay did not attempt to dissuade

VOL. II. l

her ; he thought that good might come of
the visit, if only in the opening. of Nansie's
eyes to Kingsley's perfidy, of which by
this time he was fully convinced. He did
not offer to accompany her, knowing that
it would lessen the chances of Mr. Manners'
seeing her.

She went early in the morning, and sent
up her name to the great contractor, and
received his reply that he would not receive
her. She lingered a moment or two, and
cast an imploring glance at the man-servant
as though it were in his power to reverse the
fiat, but the man looked impassively first
at her, then at the door, and she left the
house.

What a grand, stately house it was ! It
almost made her giddy to look to the top.
She stood on the other side of the road,
watching the door through which she had just
passed ; her mind was made up to wait,
and at ail risks to accost Mr. Manners when

he came out. She had never seen him, but
she was sure she would know him when he
appeared. Kingsley had shown her the
portrait of his father, and the likeness between
them would render mistake impossible.
She wondered whether it would have assisted
her to bring her baby girl, and wondered,
too, how a man so rich and powerful as
Mr. Manners could have the heart to behave
so harshly to his only child. She had
gone no farther than the entrance hall of the
stately mansion, but the evidences of wealth
which met her eyes had impressed her more
deeply than ever with the sacrifice Kingsley
had made for her sake. A sense of wrongdoing
came to her. She should not have
accepted the sacrifice. She should have
thought of the future, and should not have
allowed herself to be led away by the impetuous
passion of her lover. Even the duty
she owed to her dear father had been neglected,
and she had taken the most solemn

l 2

step in life without consulting him. It was
too late to turn back now, but could she not
atone for the wrong she had done ? If she
said to Kingsley : "Dear husband, let us
part ; return to your father's home, to your
father's heart, and I will never trouble you
more ; " would he accept the atonement ?
Would he, would he ? A chill fell upon her
heart, like the touch of an icy hand, but the
sweet remembrances of the past, of the vows
they had exchanged, of the undying love
they had pledged to each other, brought
gleams of sunshine to her. Kingsley had
thrown in his lot with her for weal and woe.
She would work, she would slave for him,
and he should never hear one word of complaining
from her lips. If only they were
together again ! They could be happy on a
very little ; she would make him happy ;
she would be bright and cheerful always, and
he would draw gladness from her. Their
baby was at home, waiting for a father's

kisses, for a father's love. If he needed a
stronger incentive to be true and faithful, he
would find it in his child. Upon the mere
suggestion of this possibility she stood up in
defence of him. No stronger incentive was
needed than the ties which already bound
them together. But where was he ? What
was the reason of his long and heart-breaking
silence ?

She walked slowly up and down for an
hour and more, never losing sight of the
door of the rich man's house. She was determined
not to go away without seeing him,
if she had to remain the whole of the day.
It was a weary, anxious time, and it was
fortunate for her that she had not much longer
to wait. The door opened, and Mr. Manners
came forth.

How like he was to Kingsley ! — only that
his face was harder, and that all that was
gentle and tender in Kingsley 's face was depicted
in his father's in hard, stern lines.

But the likeness was unmistakable. He
stopped as she glided swiftly to his side
and timidly touched his sleeve.

"Well?"

His voice wa as hard and stern as his
face, and if she had not nerved herself to
her task the opportunity would have been
lost.

You would not see me when I called at
your house, sir, and I took the liberty of waiting
for you here."

He did not ask who she was, and he
showed no sign that he was touched by her
gentle, pleading manner.

What do you want ? "

I came, sir, to ask if you had any news
of" — she stopped short at the name of Kingsley
; he might have resented it as a familiarity
— " of your son."

Why come to me ? "

I do not know, sir," said Nansie, humbly,
whether I dreaded or hoped that you might

relieve me of the trouble which is oppressing
me ; but you may have heard from
him lately."

I have not heard from him."
Do you know nothing of him, sir ? "
"Nothing ; nor do I wish to know. When
he left my house he was aware that the step
he took put an end to all relations between
us. I am not a man to be turned from my
purpose. He chose his course deliberately,
and set me at defiance."

No, sir, no ! " cried Nansie. " He* had
no thought of that."

Words do not alter facts. He owed mea
plain duty, and he ignored it for a stranger .
The lures you used to entangle and ruin him
have proved effectual. You led him on to
his destruction, and you are reaping what you
have sown. Finish your errand."

"It is finished, sir," said Nansie, turning
mournfully away. " I cannot doubt that
you have spoken truly, and that you have

not heard from my husband. The last time
he wrote to me he was in sore distress, without
means to return home. I was in hopes
that I should be able to send him a little
money, but my hope was destroyed by a
calamity which beggared the only friend I
have."

"I have heard something in the same
strain. You sent this only friend to me."

"No, sir, I did not. Do you mean my
uncle ? "

I mean him. He came to me, as you
know, and asked me for a sum of money to
send abroad to my son."

Indeed, indeed, sir, I did not know it."

"Which, doubtless," continued Mr. Manners,
ignoring the contradiction, "he would
have pocketed, with the satisfactory thought
that he had got something out of me."

"You do my uncle great injustice, sir.
He is noble and generous, and I honour him
with my whole heart."

TOILERS OF BABYLON. 153

"Yes, yes," said Mr. Manners, and there
was a deeper sternness in his voice, " it is
among the class to which you and he belong,
and into which you have dragged my son,
that honour and nobility are to be found.
I have had experience of it. Once more,
finish your errand."

I have nothing more to say, sir. I fear
to anger you."

Your real purpose in seeking me was
to beg for money."

Indeed not, sir. I had no such
purpose."

And would not accept it if I offered
it?"

I cannot with truth say that, sir. Weare
so poor that the pride I once had is
broken. Pardon me if I say that I think
you have no intention of offering it."

"I have none."

She bowed, and crossed to the opposite
side of the road ; but before she had gone

a dozen yards she heard his voice, accosting
her.

It is in my mind to say something to

you."

She turned to him with a sudden hope.
Had he relented ? Had her distress softened
his heart towards her ? A glance at his face
dispelled the hope. There was in it no sign
of pity.

Accompany me to my house," he said.

Bewildered and surprised she walked by
his side in silence, and they entered the
mansion together.

You would probably like," said Mr.
Manners, " to have some better knowledge
than you at present possess of the position
which, by his disobedience and unfilial
conduct, my son has forfeited."

He conducted her through some of the
principal apartments, which had been furnished
and decorated in a princely style.
The pictures, the sculptures, the bric-a-brac
were of the choicest character. Her feet sank
in the thick, soft carpets, and her heart fainted
within her as she followed Mr. Manners
through the sumptuously appointed rooms.
He paused before one, and throwing open
the door :

You may enter : it was my son's bedroom."


She obeyed him, a rush of tears almost
blinding her ; Mr. Manners remained outside.
She saw, not a bedroom, but a suite of rooms

luxuriously furnished ; a library of costly
books ; rare old engravings on the walls ;
a bath-room fitted up with all the newest
appliances ; everything that money could
purchase to make a man's life pleasant and
devoid of care. She remained there buta
short time ; the contrast between these
rooms and the miserable attics which she and
her uncle occupied, and to which she hoped
to welcome Kingsley, appalled her. When
she rejoined Mr. Manners in the passage,
he led her downstairs, and ushered her into
his study.

"You may sit down," he said.

She was tired, wretched, and dispirited,
and she accepted the ungracious invitation.

I am not in the habit of boasting of
my wealth," he said ; " what you have seen
affords proof of it. And all that you have
seen, with means sufficient to keep it up ten
times over, would Lave been my son's had
you not marred his career. I will not do

you an injustice ; you have surprised me ;
I thought that my son had taken up with
a common, vulgar woman ; I find myself
mistaken."

Again animated by hope, she looked up ;
again her hope was destroyed by the stern
face she gazed upon.

It is because I see that you are superior
to what I anticipated that I am speaking to
you now. Doubtless my son has informed
you that by my own unaided exertions I
have raised myself to what I am." She
bowed her head* " The pleasure of success
was great, and was precious to me, not so
much for wealth itself, but for a future I
had mapped out, in which my son was to
play the principal part. With him absent,
with him parted from me, this future vanishes,
and I am left with the dead fruits of a life of
successful labour. Who is to blame for this ? "

She held up her hands appealingly, but he
took no notice of the action.

You are therefore my enemy, and not

only my enemy, but my son's. With my

assistance, with my wealth and position to

help him, he would have risen to be a power

in the land. You have destroyed a great

future ; you have deprived him of fame

and distinction ; but there is a remedy, and

it is to propose this remedy to you that I

invited you into my house. Your speech

is that of an educated person, and you must

be well able to judge between right and

wrong. What your real character is I may

learn before we part to-day. I will assume,

for instance, that you are nothing but an

adventuress, a schemer — do not interrupt

me ; the illustration is necessary to what I

have to say. You may be nothing of the

kind, but I assume the possibility to give

force to a statement I shall make without any

chance of a misunderstanding. It is this. 



suing that you played upon my son's feelings
because of my being a rich man, in the

expectation that if not at once, in a little
while I should open my purse to you, it
will be well for you to know that there is
not the remotest possibility of such an
expectation being realised. Do you understand
? "

She did not reply in words ; the fear that
she might further anger him kept her silent ;
she made a motion which he interpreted into
assent, and accepting it so, continued :

"Assuming, on the other hand, that you did
not weigh the consequences of your conduct,
and that you had some sort of a liking for my
son

"I truly loved him, sir' she could not
refrain from saying.

It shall be put to the proof. If you
love him truly you will be willing to make
a sacrifice for him."

"To make him happy," she said, in a low
tone, " to bring about a reconciliation between
you, I would sacrifice my life."

But it is not yours to sacrifice. Something
less will do. On one condition, and
on one condition only, will I receive and
forgive my son."

And then he paused ; it was not that
the anguish expressed in her face turned
him from his purpose, but that he wished her
to be quite calm to consider his proposition.

I am listening, sir."

The condition is that you shal] take a
step which shall separate you from my son
for ever."

What step, sir ? "

There are other lands, far away, in which
under another name, you can live with your
uncle. You shall have ample means ; you
shall have wealth secured to you as long as
you observe the conditions ; you shall not be
interfered with in any way ; you will be able
to live a life of ease and comfort "

He did not proceed. There was that in
her face which arrested his flow of language.

Is Kingsley to be consulted in this,
sir ? "

To be consulted ? Certainly not. He
is not to know it."

Shall I be at liberty to write and tell
him that it is for his good I am leaving
him ? "

You will not be at liberty to communicate
with him in any way, directly or indirectly."


He is, then, to suppose that I have
deserted him ? "

He is to suppose what he pleases. That
will not be your affair."

Indignation gave Nansie courage. "Is it
to be yours, sir ? "

"What do you mean?" demanded Mr.
Manners, frowning.

That you will have the power to invent
some story to my discredit, and that your
son shall be made to believe I am not worthy
of him. That is my meaning, sir."

VOL. II. m

"Do you think you are serving him or
yourself by the tone you are adopting ?" asked
Mr. Manners, rising from his chair.

It was an indication to Nansie, and she
obeyed it and stood before him.

I have not thought of that, sir ; I am
thinking only of what is right. Forgive me
for having intruded myself upon you, and
allow me to leave you. If your son is living —
sometimes in my despair I fear the worst, he
has been so long silent — and returns home,
perhaps you will inform him of the proposition
you have made to me and of the manner in
which I received it."

That is a threat that you will do so."

No, sir, it is not ; he will hear nothing
from me. Heaven forbid that by any future
act of mine I should help to widen the breach
between you ! Good morning, sir."

She did not make her uncle acquainted
with what had passed between Mr. Manners
and herself ; she simply said that Mr. Manners

had refused to see her, that she had waited
for him in the street, and that she had
learnt from him that he had not heard from
Kingsley.

Did he speak kindly to you ? " asked
Mr. Lovedayay.

"No ; he is bitterly incensed against me,
and looks upon me with aversion. If I had
ever a hope that he would relent towards us,
it is gone now for ever. Uncle, is it my fancy
that you are looking strangely at me ? "

Your fancy, my dear," replied Mr. Love-day,
with a smile which he endeavoured to
make cheerful. "Why should I look strangely
at you ? Your interview with Mr. Manners
has unnerved you."

Yes," said Nansie, " it must be so. When
Kingsley returns he must not know of my
visit to his father. It will make him angry
and uncomfortable."

I shall not tell him, my dear," said Mr.
Lovedayay.

m 2

When Kingsley returns ! Nansie suppressed
a sigh as she uttered the words ; but the unspoken
thought was in her mind : " Would he
ever return ? " She flew to her baby as to a
refuge and a sanctuary, but her heart was very
heavy.

It was not her fancy that her uncle had
looked strangely at her, and he had not behaved
ingenuously in his reply to her question.
He had deep cause for uneasiness, and
his duty seemed to lie, for the present, in the
effort to keep her in ignorance of ominous
news which had come to his knowledge during
her visit to Kingsley's father.

On the previous day, in the last edition
of the papers he sold in the streets he noticed
a paragraph to which he had paid no particular
attention. It was simply the record
of an accident on a German railway, in which
ten persons had been killed and considerably
more than that number seriously hurt.
No particulars were given, and no names were
mentioned. In the first edition of this day's
evening papers Mr. Lovedayay read the following:

Further particulars have reached us of
the railway accident in Germany, but its
precise cause still remains unexplained. It
appears that the train was conveying nearly
two hundred travellers, of whom ten met
their death, as was stated yesterday, and
twenty-three were seriously injured. Among
the dead was a gentleman of the name of
Seymour, who was accompanied by Mr.
Manners, who is supposed to have been
travelling with Mr. Seymour as a kind of
companion or secretary. These two are the

only English names in the list given of
killed and wounded. Mr. Manners is one
of those who were seriously injured ; he
lies now in a precarious state which precludes
the possibility of any information
being obtained from him which would
enable the authorities to communicate with
his relatives or the relatives of Mr. Sey-mour.
As to the latter, however, some
important discoveries have already been
made through documents found upon his
person. Reticence has been observed in
making these particulars public, but sufficient
is known to warrant the statement
that, despite the English name under which
he travelled, he is by nationality a Russian
and that he occupied a position of responsibility
in a certain secret revolutionary society
whose aim it is to spread discontent and
disaffection among the working classes on
the Continent."

It was this paragraph which caused Mr.

Lovedayay so much anxiety. There could be
no mistake that the Mr. Manners referred
to was Nansie's husband ; the association of
his name with that of Mr. Seymour rendered
this a certainty, and it appeared to Mr. Love-day
that the personal injuries he had met
with in the railway accident were not the
only dangers which threatened him. Mr.
Lovedayay could not immediately make up his
mind whether it would be wise to acquaint
Nansie with what had come to his knowledge.
It was very unlikely that she would
otherwise hear of it, for the reason that she
never read the newspapers ; in the neighbourhood
in which they lived an accident
so remote would pass unnoticed, and thus it
would not be difficult to keep her in ignorance
of her husband's peril. Kingsley's
father could not have known anything of
this when he and Nansie were together, or
he would undoubtedly have made some
reference to it.

What was best to be done ? That was the
question which was perplexing Mr. Lovedayay.
To take any practical step was out of his
power, because that would entail the expenditure
of money which he did not possess.
He and Nansie were living now literally from
hand to mouth ; the day's earnings sufficed
for bare daily food ; they had not a shilling
to spare from the inexorable necessities of
existence. To make another appeal to Mr.
Manners would be worse than useless ; it
would bring fresh insults and reviling upon
them from the stern millionaire whose heart
was steeled against the calls of common humanity.
Thus did he argue with himself as
to the good that would be done by making
the disclosure to Nansie ; it would but intensify
the sorrow caused by Kingsley's silence
into a torture which would be unendurable.
If any useful end could have been served
by letting Nansie into the secret of her
husband's peril, Mr. Lovedayay would not

have hesitated to inform her of it ; but,
so far as he could see, the distress of mind
occasioned by the revelation would add
misery to misery ; and after some long
consideration of the matter he determined
to keep the matter to himself, at least for
the present. Meanwhile he watched the
papers for further information of the railway
accident, but for some time saw no reference
to it. One day, however, the following
paragraph arrested his attention :

With respect to Mr. Seymour who met
his death in the railway accident in Germany,
the particulars of which have been fully
reported in our columns, it is now certain
that he was by birth a Russian, and that
he was for a number of years intimately
connected with conspiracies against law and
order. The documents found upon his person
were of such a character, and were so
drawn out, as to destroy the hope that was
entertained that they would lead to the detection

of the members of the secret societies
with which he was associated. Great pains
have evidently been taken — probably from
day to day — to do away with all documentary
evidence that would incriminate
others, and this is an indirect proof of the
dangerous nature of the conspiracies in which
he was engaged. With respect to the Mr.
Manners who met with serious injuries,
nothing to directly implicate him has come
to light. The strongest point against him is
the fact of his having travelled for many
months with Mr. Seymour on apparently
confidential relations. Papers found in his
possession lead to the conclusion that he is
the son of the great contractor, Mr. Valentine
Manners, whose name is known all the world

over."

In the following day's paper Mr. Lovedayay
read a letter to the following effect :

Sir, — It is necessary for me to state that

I have not been in any way acquainted with
the late movements and proceedings of my
son, Mr. Kingsley Manners, who is reported
to have met with serious injuries in a railway
accident in Germany, nor have I any knowledge
of the Mr. Seymour with whom he is
said to have travelled as companion.
Faithfully yours,

Valentine Manners."

That was all. Although Mr. Lovedayay carefully
searched the papers day after day, he saw
no further reference to the matter ; it dropped
out of sight, as it were, and the faint interest
it had excited in the public mind appeared to
have died completely away. The hard battle
of life continued sadly and monotonously,
without the occurrence of one cheering incident
to lighten the days ; and as time
wore on Nansie ceased to speak to her uncle
of the beloved husband who was either dead
or had forgotten her. In her sad musings

upon the question of death or forgetfulness,
she did not bring the matter to an issue.
Had she been compelled to do so, she would
have stabbed herself with the torture that
Kingsley was dead ; for that he could have
forgotten her, and that he could be systematically
neglecting her, was in her faithful,
chivalrous heart impossible. All that she
could do was to wait, although hope was
almost dead within her.

At an unexpected moment, however, the
question was solved.

It was evening. Mr. Lovedayay had not
returned from his daily labours, and Nansie
had put her baby asleep in her cradle, and
had gone out to execute some small household
duties. She hurried through them as
quickly as possible, and, returning home, had
almost reached the street door of the house
in which she lived, when a voice at her back
said :

It is Nansie ! "

The pulses of her heart seemed to stop. It
was her husband's voice, and so overcome was
she by this sudden ray of sunshine that, when
she turned, she could scarcely see before her.
Again the voice came to her ears ; the gay,
light, happy voice of old, which expressed
only joy and sweetness, and in which there
was no note of sadness or sorrow.

Why, Nansie — it is Nansie ! I was born
under a lucky star."

And still, without seeing the speaker, she
felt herself drawn to the heart of the one
man in the world she loved — of the dear
husband and the father of the babe sleeping
peacefully at home.

Oh, Kingsley ! Is it you, is it you ? "

Of course it is, Nansie. Who else should
it be ? But it is very perplexing and puzzling;
I don't quite see my way out of it. Tell
me, Nansie — you expected me, did you not ? "

"Yes, Kingsley, yes — for so long, for so
Ions; I"

No, no, not for so long. Why, it can
have been but a few days since I went
away ! Let me see — how was it ? We had
to look things in the face, and we did, and
we agreed that something must be done, and
then — and then — upon my word, Nansie, I
think I am growing worse than ever ; I not
only fly off at a tangent, but I seem to be
afflicted by an imp of forgetfulness. What
does it matter, though ? I have found you,
and we are together again. "

During this speech, Nansie's eyes were
fixed upon his face in tender love and
thoughtfulness. His words were so at variance
with the true nature of her position
and his, that she would have been unable to
understand them if love had not brought
wisdom to her. There was in Kingsley's
eyes the same whimsical expression as of
old, there was in his manner the same lightheadedness
which had enabled him to look
upon the future without anxiety, the tones

of his voice were clear and gay, but he bore
about him an unmistakable air of poverty.
His clothes were worn threadbare, his hands
were attenuated and almost transparent, and
the lines of his face denoted that he had
passed through some great suffering. He
evinced no personal consciousness of these
signs, and seemed to be at peace and in harmony
with himself and all around him.

"Are you well, Kingsley V asked Nansie,
solicitously.

Well, my love ? Never was better in
my life, and now that I have found you,
there is nothing more to wish for. And yet
and yet "

He passed his hand across his forehead,
and looked at her in a kind of humorous
doubt.

Do you observe anything singular in me,
my love ? "

It would have been cruel to have answered
him with the direct truth. It was from the

deep well of pity with which her heart was
filled that she drew forth the words :

"No, Kingsley, no."

"Are you sure ?

Yes, dear."

I am glad to hear you say so, Nansie. I
am the same as ever, eh ? "

Yes, Kingsley, the same as ever ; but we
will not part again."

No, indeed ! I don't intend that we
shall — because, although we have been separated
but a short time, my head has got full
of fancies about this and that — foreign
countries — outlandish places — strange people
rapid journeys — accidents even, but dreams,
all of them, Nansie. They must be dreams,
or I could fix them with greater certainty.
Now, you know my old way, my dear ; when
anything was troubling me I used to say :
What is the use ? It won't make things
better.' There is only one wise way to look
upon life — make light of things. You remember

a favourite saying of mine — it was
from a song, I think, was it not ? c Never
trouble trouble, till trouble troubles you.'
And that is the way we will go through life
together, eh, my love ? "

"Yes, Kingsley," said Nansie, and would-have
said more, but for a sudden trembling
that came over him, which caused him to
cling to her for support.

What is the matter, Kingsley ? "

"To tell you the truth, my dear,' 7 he
replied, with a wan, whimsical smile, " you
would hardly believe it, but I think I am
hungry ! "

Hungry ! Oh, Kingsley ! "

Well, yes ; such a careless, neglectful
fellow as you have got for a husband, Nansie,
never thinking of things at the right moment,
never taking into account that it is necessary
to eat even, until it is forced upon him that
he must eat to live. And talking of eating to

live — is there anything in the larder, Nansie?"
vol. ir. x

He had rallied a little, and spoke with
greater firmness.

"Yes, Kingsley, plenty; come — come.
Ah, my dear, my dear, with all my heart
I thank God that you are with me again ! "

"Dear wife," he murmured, and allowed
himself to be led by her into the house,
and up the dark stairs to the rooms she
occupied.

But outside the door, on the landing, she
whispered to him :

Kingsley ! "

"Yes, love."

There is a great happiness within. Be
prepared for it."

"There is a great happiness here" — with
his arms around her. " I am really and truly
thankful."

But a greater within, Kingsley, my
husband. Listen — our darling child sleeps
there."

Our darling child, our little one ! Surely

I have seen her in my dreams, in which I
have seen so many strange things. Ah, how
I have dreamt of you, Nansie, even during
this short absence ! But let us go in, or
I shall be reproached for forgetfulness."

They entered the room together, they
leaned over the cradle, they knelt by its side,
and Kingsley, lowering his face to the pretty
babe sleeping there, kissed her softly and
tenderly.

She is very sweet, Nansie, like you. I
am sure her eyes are the colour of yours. "

No, darling, she has your eyes."

"And your heart, Nansie. Happy little
one, happy little one ! We will make her
happy, will we not, dear ? "

Yes, Kingsley."

But, my dear, pardon me for saying so,
I am really and truly hungry. Even a piece
of dry bread would be acceptable."

She kept back her tears, and quickly
placed bread upon the table, which he ate

N 2

ravenously at first, smiling at her gratefully
the while. Very soon she had prepared some
hot tea, which he drank, and begged her to
drink a cup with him. His hunger being
appeased, he lay back in his chair, his eyes
wandering round the room.

What is our dear little one's name ? ,!
he asked ; " I have forgotten it."

No, dear," said Nansie, " you have not
forgotten it, because she has not one yet ; we
call her ' baby,' you know."

"Yes, yes," he said, "baby of course, the
best, the sweetest that ever drew breath ;
but she must have a name, Nansie ; she cannot
go through life as 'baby.' Say that
when she is a happy woman she marries, it
would not do for her to be called ' baby '

then."

We waited for you, Kingsley, to give hera
name."

Well, then, what shall it be ? But that
it would introduce confusion into our little

home, no better name than * Nansie ' could
be found. That would not do, would it ? "

No, Kingsley. Shall we give her your
mother's name ? "

My mother's ? No, there must be none
but good omens around her. Your mother's,
Nansie. I remember you told me it was
Hester."

Then he called aloud, but in a gentle voice,
Hester ! "

She is awake, Kingsley," said Nansie,
lifting the baby from the cradle and putting
her into his arms.

This is a great joy to me," he said ; " I
really think she knows me ; we shall be the
best of friends. There is so much that is
good in the world to show her — to teach her.
Now, you and I together, love, will resolve
to do our duty by her, and to do all that is in
our power to make her happy."

An hour later, when Mr. Lovedayay returned
home, Nansie, who had been listening for his
footsteps, went out to meet him. Even in
the dark he, with love's keen sight, observed
that something of a pleasant nature had
occurred.

Good news, Nansie ? "

Speak low, uncle. Yes, good news. He
has come home."

Kingsley ? "

Yes, uncle. He is asleep with the baby
by his side. He is very, very tired."

How did it happen ? How did he find

you out ? "

It must have been almost by chance. I

was out making some little purchases, when I
suddenly heard a voice behind me saying,
quite naturally : ' It is Nansie ! ' Turning, I
saw him, not clearly at first, because I was
almost blind with joy. You must be very
gentle with him, uncle."

"I will, my dear; but there is something
in your voice — gentle for any especial
reason ? "

Yes, for a special reason, which you
will more fully discover for yourself. I am
glad that I have seen you before he meets
you ; it will be better that you should be
prepared."

Prepared for what, my dear ? "

Kingsley is labouring under an impression
that he has been away from us but a
very short time. What we know to be real
he believes to be fancies. He has made no
reference to his travels abroad with Mr.
Seymour, nor to the railway accident iu
which he was injured. He speaks of dreams,

and even then not clearly. It is difficult forme
to make myself understood "

Not at all, Nansie ; I think I understand.
The accident he met with has affected his
memory ; but it is good that he is with us
now. We can take care of him, we can
nurse him back to strength and health."

"How kind you are, uncle ! Never thinking
of yourself ! "

Nonsense, my dear, nonsense ! It is
entirely of myself that I am thinking, for I
would not lose you and your dear ones for
all the money the world contains. That is
putting a small value upon money, though.
I wish we had a little."

In his mind was the thought : " We need
it all the more now," but he did not give the
thought utterance.

Is he low-spirited, despondent, Nansie ? "

No, uncle, quite the contrary. He is
as light-hearted and gay as ever, and speaks
in the same sweet, hopeful strains of the

future, his anticipations of which led him
into the error of "

She stopped short; she did not complete
the sentence. Her uncle completed it for
her.

Of marrying you, my dear. Do not
regret it ; accept it as a blessing, as it really
is. Short-sighted mortals as we are to so
constantly forget that life is short, and that
its sweetest happiness is to be found in self-sacrifice
— even, Nansie, in suffering ! "

They entered the room together, and found
Kingsley awake. He rose when his eyes
lighted upon Mr. Lovedayay, and, with a bright
smile, said :

Nansie's uncle ? "

"Yes, Kingsley," said Mr. Lovedayay.

And Nansie raised her uncle's hand to
her lips, and kissed it in grateful recognition
of the affectionate greeting.

Now," said Kingsley, to whom strength
seemed to have really returned ; he held

out his hand, and retained Mr. Lovedayay's
in his as he spoke — " now what could be
pleasant, what could be brighter and more
full of promise ? Here, for the first time,
we meet, and I recognise in you a friend.
Believe me, sir, when I say a friend, it is
said once and for ever ; it is meant once and
for ever. I am no butterfly, eh, Nansie ? "

No, dear Kingsley," she replied, pressing
close to him.

He passed his arm round her.

No butterfly," continued Kingsley, " except
in the way of conversation, but that
you will find out for yourself. I fly from
one theme to another in the most inconsequential
manner. A bad habit, sir, if it
really meant anything serious, but it does
not, and I have here by my side a spiritual
support " — he kissed Nansie — " which never
fails to recall me to the straight line at the
precise and proper moment — as it does now ;
for looking at her, I am reminded of all we

owe to you. Let me thank you in our joint
names. I will not say that I hope to live
to repay the debt, because there are some
debts which it is good never to repay, and
this is one. It is sometimes most ungracious
to deliberately cancel an obligation."

The debt is on my side. Kingsley," said
Mr. Lovely, greatly won by the returned
wanderer's speech and manner. "Nansie has
brightened my life."

She could do no less," said Kingsley,
in a tone of grave and tender affection, " to
the life of any person who has the happiness
to know her."

Upon the invitation of Mr. Lovedayay, who
knew, now that Kingsley had joined them,
that certain changes were necessary in their
domestic arrangements, and that Nansie could
more readily effect them if she were left
alone, the two men went out for a stroll.
They returned after an absence of a couple
of hours, and Kingsley presented Nansie

with a few simple flowers, saying as he did
so : "Our honeymoon is not yet over, my
love."

Presently Kingsley, who, it was apparent,
needed repose, was induced to retire to his
bed. No sooner had he laid his head upon
the pillow, than he was fast asleep. Nansie
and her uncle sat together in the adjoining
room, and conversed in low tones.

"It is as you say," observed Mr. Lovedayay,
he appears to have no memory — that is,
no absolute, dependable memory — of what
has transpired from the time he left you.
I have not directly questioned him, feeling
that it might not lead to a good result, and
that he is not yet strong enough to bear
even a slight shock ; but indirectly I threw
out a veiled suggestion or two, and his
responses have convinced me of his condition.
He has a vague impression of a railway
accident in which some person whom he
knew was killed, and some person whom he

knew was injured, but he does not associate
either the one or the other directly with
himself. You will not mind my mentioning
something, my dear, because in our position
there must be between us no concealment.
Kingsley has no money, not a penny."

It is as I expected, uncle ; but how did
you discover it ? Did he say so ? "

"No, my dear, it came when he paused
before a woman who was selling flowers.
He put his hands into his pockets, and was,
I think, more perplexed than distressed.
'Now this is too bad he remarked, and I,
divining, paid the woman for the flowers he
selected. It is wonderful to me how, circumstanced
as he is, he managed to make
his way home."

"Providence directed him, and protected
him," said Nansie, devoutly, " and will surely
smooth the path before us."

"With all my heart I hope so," responded
Mr. Lovedayay ; " meanwhile, until

the better fortune smiles upon us, we must
work all the harder, and bring our best
courage to bear upon the present."

Their conversation was interrupted by a
gentle tapping at the door, and opening it,
they saw Timothy Chance, who had a covered
basket on his arm which he laid upon the
floor, and then respectfully greeted Mr. Love-day
and Nansie, who, however, would not
be content with this, but shook hands heartily
with him.

A word of explanation as to Timothy's
movements will here be useful.

They had not seen him since within a
fortnight of the fire which had plunged
them so low. When he was convinced that
there was no present hope of Mr. Lovedayay
being able to re-establish his business, he had
looked out for a situation in the immediate
neighbourhood, in order that he might be
near the friends to whom he was so devotedly
attached. But his efforts were not successful

; no situation presented itself which he
could accept, and as he was driven by
necessity, which knows no law, he was compelled
to avail himself of an engagement in
the country some fifteen miles away, which
offered itself in the nick of time. What
eventually transpired will be best related in
his own words.

You thought I'd forgotten you, sir," he
said to Mr. Lovedayay.

No, my lad, I did not think that. My
thought was that you had not been fortunate,
and that you kept away out of consideration
for us."

Thank you, sir. You have a happy way
of saying things. True, too, because I was
not very fortunate at first ; but there has
been a turn in the wheel."

"A good turn, Timothy, I hope?"

It will prove so, sir, if I have a head
upon my shoulders ; always trusting that
there are no more fires."

Ah," said Mr. Lovedayay, " we have had
enough of those experiences."

Yes, that we have, sir," responded
Timothy, gravely ; " but what I say is, * Never
despair.' I have not neglected my studies,
sir, and I can give you the Latin words, if
you like — ' nil desperado.' "

Timothy said this proudly, and with a
bright eye.

"Good lad," said Mr. Lovedayay. "It is
not in you to despair, Timothy. You are
the stuff that men are made of, and will run
ahead of all of us."

Never so far ahead, sir," said Timothy,
wistfully, " that I shall lose sight of the
best friends a poor boy ever had ; but that
sounds like boastfulness."

Not at all, Timothy, not at all. You speak
with as much modesty as resolution. This turn
in the wheel, my lad — what kind of a turn ? "

I think, sir," said Timothy, with a gay
laugh, " that you could guess in once."

Mr. Lovedayay glanced at the basket on
the floor, and made a guess in merry mood,
for Timothy's blithe spirits were contagious.

Eggs, Timothy ? "

Yes, sir," said Timothy, laughing again ;
you have guessed it in once — eggs. But
before I tell you about it " — he turned to
Nansie — " how is baby ? "

Thriving beautifully, Timothy," replied
Nansie.

May I see her ? " he asked.

"Wait a moment," said Nansie, and she
went to the inner room, where baby was
lying in her cradle. Returning, she said :
Yes, you may see her ; but you must be
very quiet. Do not make the least noise,
and don't be surprised at what you see. My
dear husband is home."

A bright light came into Timothy's face.

"I am glad," he said, "for your sake and
baby's."

He stepped softly into the bedroom, ac-vol.

II.

companied by Nansie, and stood in silence
for a few moments, gazing affectionately at
the sleeping child.

May I kiss her ? " he said.

Yes, Timothy, but very, very softly."

With the gentleness of a woman he
stooped and kissed the child, and then came
back with Nansie to the sitting-room, closing
the door softly behind him.

Eggs, as you say, sir," he recommenced,
taking up the business part of the conversation
where it had broken off. " You know
that I had to sell off my little stock of fowls
here, so that I might get to the situation I
heard of. It wasn't a very good one, and it
wasn't a very bad one ; I had to work hard,
which is a thing I shall never complain of,
and although, besides my grub, I got very
little a week, I managed to save a little out
of that. Well, sir, six weeks ago I had two
laying hens, and there I was established
again in a small way, doing business for myself

outside the hours I had to work for my
employer. Then came a bit of good fortune,
the turn in the wheel I spoke of. Not far
from my place lives a blacksmith, and to him
I've been going of a night for a little while
past, teaching him to write a bit, teaching
him to read a bit, and reading books to him
myself that made him laugh and cry. He
gets fond of me and we get talking together,,
especially about eggs. Says I, 'There's a
fortune in eggs.' Says he, ' Is there?' Says
I, f No doubt of it.' And three weeks ago —
that is, you know, three weeks after I had
set up in business again with my two fowls
I put it all down in figures one night, and
we went into it seriously. ' It seems all
right,' says he. 'It is all right says I.
Supposing you have not made a mistake,'
says he, ' and that you are not being deceived
by sparks.' He was hammering away on his
anvil, and the sparks were flying up. e Supposing
that says he, c and they are very

o 2

deceptive creatures — sparks — bright as stars
one moment, dead as ghosts the next, how
much would it take to start the business ? '
1 First,' says I, * there's the ground c IVe
got that says he, ' at the back of the forge ;
an acre and a half.' 'Then says I, 'there's
timber for fowl-houses, say enough for thirty
to commence w T with.' ' I've got that says he,
'lying idle on the waste ground behind.'
1 And nails you've got,' says I. You see, sir,
I was speaking with confidence, and rather
boldly, because a voice was whispering tome,
'Here's your chance, Timothy.' 'And
tools to work nails and timber with,' says I.
Labour will cost nothing ; I should be carpenter
and builder ' Should you ? ' says he,
and I could give you a hand. But an acre
arid a half of ground and any amount of
timber and nails won't lay eggs. Come to
the grip — how much money to bring that
about?" '£10 will be ample says I. 'I've
got that,' says he, ' and more at the back of

it. Say £10 then.' ' Do you mean it ? ' says
I, my heart almost jumping out of my body.
I never say what I don't mean,' says he,
though I don't always say what I do. It
is agreed, Timothy, that we go into partnership
; rent of ground to he reckoned, nails
and tools to be reckoned, timber to be
reckoned, and £10 to be reckoned, as the
capital of the firm. The sooner you start,
the better.' I think you know enough of
me, sir," continued Timothy, glowing, " to
know that I didn't waste an hour. Waste an
hour ! I didn't waste a minute ; and before
that week was over the fowl-houses were up,
not far away from the forge — because warmth,
sir, is good for laying hens — and there was
a stock of thirty black Hamburgss to start
with. Now, sir and Mrs. Manners, we have
been in business just one fortnight, and everything
is going on swimmingly. My partner
says he never saw such fowls, and says I deal
in magic ; but the only thing I deal in, sir, is

common sense. So, being fairly started on
my way, and having something good to tell,
I burned to come and tell it to the friends I
honour most ; and now I must go. I have
to get back to-night ; but perhaps you will
let me come to see you again."

Indeed, we shall be delighted to see
you at any time, Timothy," said Nansie, for
he looked at her for an answer. " No one
is more rejoiced at your good fortune, and
at the prospect before you, than ourselves."

"I know that," said Timothy. " Goodnight,
and God bless you."

Your basket, Timothy," said Mr. Love-day.


Oh, if you will excuse me, sir, it is
yours, and not mine. I have bought it for
you, and I hope you will not take it
amiss." And off Timothy went, without
another word.

Opening the basket when he was gone,
they took out a score of new-laid eggs and a

young fowl trussed for roasting. Tears came
into Nansie's eyes.

"Did I not say, uncle," she murmured,
that Providence will smooth the path before
us?"

The week that followed was one of great
anxiety to Nansie, springing less from the
pecuniary circumstances of their position
than from the state of Kingsley's health.
The privations and the sufferings he had
endured told upon him now that the excitement
of the reunion with his wife was over,
and for some days he was too weak to leave
the house. He himself made light of his
sickness, and would not admit that there was
anything seriously the matter with him.
They made no endeavour to impress this
upon him, but he gathered it from the evidences
of care and attention by which he
was surrounded.

There was in the neighbourhood a doctor
of great skill, who could have practised successfully
in fashionable quarters at high fees,
but who had deliberately chosen to remain
among the poor, whom he loved and attended
to with as much devotion as he would have
displayed to the highest in the land. His
fee was fixed at a shilling ; when this was
not forthcoming he was content with sixpence,
and in many cases with nothing,
making no complaints against tardy debtors.
This man was always cheerful, ready, and
willing, at whatever hour of the day or night ;
and, without ostentation, he played the part
of a true minister to those who needed it
most. It is pleasant to be able to limn, even
thus briefly, the character of one in whose
life and career were exhibited the noblest
attributes of human nature. He and Mr.
Lovedayay were friends, and shortly after Nansie
came to live with her uncle Dr. Perriera was
greatly attracted to her, no less by her gentle

manners than by the display of attainments
superior to those amongst whom she lived.
When Mr Lovedayay was burnt out Dr. Perriera
was the first to express sympathy with him ;
he would also have been the first to offer
practical assistance had it not been that he
was very poor, a fact which troubled him not
at all so far as regarded himself, but frequently
disturbed him when he came into contact
with distress which it was not in his power
to relieve. After the fire, when he attended
Nansie of his own free will and prompting,
he declined to receive any fee whatever, and
to this Mr. Lovedayay did not demur.

As his name indicated, Dr. Perriera was of
Spanish descent, and could, indeed, trace his
genealogical record back to the days when
Spain was first amongst the nations of the
world in art, literature, and science. But
the dark and heavy hand of bigotry effectually
scotched the fair promise which lay
before the favoured nation, and with the

exodus of the Jews — to which race Dr. Per -
ribera belonged — commenced the decay of a
mighty nation.

On the day succeeding that of Kingsley's
return Mr. Lovedayay called upon Dr. Perriera,
and told him of it.

I am greatly pleased," said Dr. Perriera ;
it will be better medicine for Mrs. Manners
than the finest drugs in the Pharmacopoeia."

Then, in order that Dr. Perriera might be
in possession of all necessary information,
Mr. Lovedayay made him acquainted with the
particulars of Kingsley's association with Mr.
Seymour, following those up with the intelligence
of the strange hallucination under which
Kingsley was labouring with respect to his
long absence from home. To Mr. Lovedayay's
surprise, Dr. Perriera showed an intimate
knowledge of the movements of the so-called
Mr. Seymour, as well as of the secret societies
in the interests of which it was said that he
travelled.

u Of Mr. Manners," said Dr. Perriera, " I
know nothing. In Mr. Seymour's transactions
he was little better than a cipher, and
was probably used as an innocent decoy, or
as a means to avert suspicion from the doings
of his chief."

How have you become acquainted with
these affairs," asked Mr. Lovedayay ; " you,
who seem to have no spare moments of time
apart from your professional offices ? "

"I have time and to spare for much,"
replied Dr. Perriera, smiling. " I keep up
rather an extensive correspondence with many
European societies which have for their object
the advancement of science and humanity."

Humanity ! " exclaimed Mr. Lovedayay.

I call it by that name," said Dr. Perriera.
"Were it possible that the ends aimed at
could be reached, the toilers of the world
would be undoubtedly benefited. The advocated
means are frequently pernicious and
indefensible ; but this occasionally arises

from the fact that men of keen intellectual
power are goaded to madness by the
tyranny of old systems. However, enough
of this ; I think much but speak little of
such matters. I have my small part to play
in the world, as to the larger and grander
movements of which I can simply look on
and observe."

Dr. Perriera called to see Kingsley, and of
his own accord visited him daily. He gave
Nansie kindly hope and sympathy, but 'did
not enter into the peculiarities of her husband's
case. With Mr. Lovedayay he was more
open.

It is a singular condition," he said.
The loss of memory is not at all uncommon,
nor, either, is its recovery ; but in most instances
this loss is a total loss, time, well-known
incidents, relative circumstances, the
names of friends and acquaintances, even one's
own name, being plunged for a period into
absolute obscurity. But here the loss of

memory is partial, and the singular phase
of it is that it affects only those circumstances
of the past which it would be disagreeable
to recall. He remembers all that is pleasant
and happy in his life, but forgets all that has
brought trouble upon him. It belongs to this
phase that he is incapable of realising the
privations of the life which seems to lie before
him. His temperament is exceptionally bright
and cheerful ; he looks upon the happy side of
nature, and every hopeful sentiment which
passes his lips seems to blossom into flower
at the moment of its utterance. I can imagine
no happier condition of being ; but in a
poor man it has its grave and most serious
side."

How ? " inquired Mr. Lovedayay.

In the fact," replied Dr. Perriera, " that
it allows no room for effort, that it affords
no incentive to it, that it creates a sure contentment
even for a crust of bread, and an
utter obliviousness to what may be necessary

for those who, he being the head of the family,
are naturally dependent upon him."

That is to say," observed Mr. Lovedayay,
that there is no hope of his being the
bread-winner."

"None," said Dr. Perriera, "until there is
a radical change in him ; and I confess to
being at a loss as to how this can be
effected."

The correctness of the good doctor's diagnosis
was verified by an incident which did
not come to the ears of Nansie or her uncle
until after its occurrence. Stronger in body,
and able to walk abroad without assistance,
Kingsley soon made himself acquainted withall
the intricacies of the neighbourhood ; and
on a certain morning he wended his steps to
the West-end of the city, and stood before
his father's house. Without hesitation he
knocked and rang, and upon the door being
opened, pushed his way past the astonished
servant, and walked straight to his father's

study. There sat Mr. Manners, who gazed
at his son with sternness and some inward
agitation which he was successful in concealing.


"Good morning, father," said Kingsley,
drawing a chair to the table, and seating
himself ; then glancing at the papers scattered
about, added in a tone of inquiry: "Fresh
contracts ? "

Mr. Manners did not reply to the question.


"What brings you here ? " he asked.

Kingsley had grown thinner since he last
saw him, and that circumstance and the
shabbiness of Kingsley's appearance suddenly
inspired in the heart of Mr. Manners the
hope that his son had come to him in

submission.

"I was anxious about you, father," said
Kingsley in an affectionate tone, "it seems
so Ion £f since we saw each other. A son must
not be forgetful of his duties."

"Ah," said Mr. Manners, his hope growing,
" you recognise that at last ? "

At last ! " said Kingsley, in a tone of
cheerful surprise. " I have always recognised
it. I cannot recall that I have ever been
wanting in ray duty to you."

Mr. Manners stared at his son, debating
now within himself what kind of part
Kingsley had come to play. There was a
silence of a few moments, during which,
Kingsley gazed at the familiar objects of the
room with great calmness, and quite at ho
ease.

"The object of your visit?" demanded
Mr. Manners.

"I have told you, father. Are you
well ? "

Yes, I am well."

"And happy?"

"Yes," replied Mr. Manners, setting his
teeth, " and happy. That knowledge will
hurt you, perhaps."

VOL. II. p

Why, no, father, it delights me. Everything,
as usual, prospers with you, of course."

Everything, as usual, prospers with
me," said Mr. Manners, mechanically. "Did
you inquire of the servant if I was at
home ? "

No, why should I ? It was my home
once as well as yours."

But is no longer," said Mr. Manners,
with a deepening frown.

Oh, well, no, in a certain sense," said
Kingsley, " not directly, but indirectly still
my home as well as yours. There are ties
which can never be broken, and which you,
in the goodness of your heart, would never
wish to be broken. I should not like to
hear from any man's lips that you think
otherwise ; I am afraid I should say something
unpleasant to him."

Kingsley's cordial manner and cheerful
voice would have mystified most men with
a weaker order of mind than Mr. Manners' :

but although this was not the case with the
great contractor, he was certainly at a loss
to account for them. He knew that Kingsley
possessed a soul of frankness and honesty,
and he could not readily bring himself to
believe that it was cunning and duplicity
which had induced his son to seek this interview.
Still, for the exhibition of these
qualities he would have been, as he always
was with all men, perfectly prepared, but not
for the ingenuousness with which he was now
confronted. He thought to turn the tables
upon Kingsley.

Are you well ? " he asked.

Quite well, father," replied Kingsley.

And happy ? "

Quite happy, father."

And prosperous ? "

"To be quite well and happy," said
Kingsley, in no spirit of evasion, "is not that
a prosperous state ? "

"You are quibbling with me," said Mr.

p 2

Manners, "and I am not in the mood, and
have no time for trifling."

I shall not detain you long, father ; you
have eased my mind, and I shall go away
presently, quite contented. As to quibbling,
you, who know me so well and have been so
good to me, must know that I am incapable
of such conduct."

I decline to argue with you. Come to
the point at once. You wish to make some
kind of appeal to me. I did hope that you
had come in submission."

I have, father ; submission in all things
that accord with one's duty."

With your duty to me ? "

"To you and to others who are dear tome."


I will not listen," said Mr. Manners, " to
anything concerning them."

I will not force it upon you. There
shall be nothing discordant between us. But
what do you mean by ' appeal ' ? "

You are here to ask for money, as those
who have separated us have been here before

you."

Indeed you are quite wrong. There has
been, there shall be, no separation between
us. I love you as I have always done, as
I always shall love you. And they appealed
to you for money ! Did you give it to
them ? "

"No, nor will I to you'

Oh, but I need none. You have been
since my earliest remembrance most liberal
to me, but you cannot accuse me of being
mercenary. I should like you to know my
wife, I should like you to know and love
our child. If you are too busy for that now,
we will wait ; when you visit us, which surely
you will do some day, you will be pleased
at the manner in which we shall receive you ;
all the honour that is due to you shall be
cheerfully rendered."

"This mockery must end," said Mr.

Manners ; " go ! But before you leave, it
will, perhaps, be as well for me to say what
is in my mind."

"Yes, father," said Kingsley, gently.

I do not know," said Mr. Manners, ina
set hard tone, " whether I should ever have
been inclined to forgive your disobedience
and undutifulness ; I do not know, after what
has passed, whether, you being my son upon
whom once all my hopes were centred,
I should have been disposed to once more
hold out my hand to you. I think it would
not have been possible, but there may have
been, at least, some remote chance of a partial
reconciliation. If there was such a chance,
you have utterly destroyed it by your conduct
during the past few months."

"What conduct do you refer to?" asked
Kingsley, smiling. " You surely are labouring
under some delusion ! "

It is no delusion," said Mr. Manners,
"that you have been travelling for sometime

with a person of infamous character
and designs!"

"Surely it must be, father. Does the
man live? If he does, he will disprove it."

"I will fall in with your humour," said
Mr. Manners, " and will pay no attention to
your amazing evasions ; all the more amazing,
all the more inexcusable, when adopted towards
a man like myself. Do you pretend that
you are unacquainted with the person who
travelled under the name of Seymour ? I Do
you pretend that travelling in close association
with him as you did for so long a
time, you had no connection with the designs
he was wishful to promote ? "

You remind me strangely," replied
Kingsley, " of something which has been
troubling me — no, I am wrong in saying
troubling me, I mean that has been interesting
me. There have undoubtedly been some
such designs as you refer to, mysterious and
inexplicable enough to me, but the interesting

part of the matter is, how did it ever come
into niy mind that I could have been associated
with them ? Clearly, I must have
evolved the idea out of a too vivid imagination,
because I cannot trace the slightest
actual connection between me and them.
Similarly, too, with the name you have
mentioned — Seymour. How did it come
into my mind that I knew such a gentleman
? Clearly, he must have existed ; and
now there occurs to me a dim remembrance
of a railway accident in which a gentleman
of the name of Seymour was killed, and
many were injured. How comes the knowledge
of that circumstance to me ? May
I not also have evolved that from my
imagination ? Anyway, I shall not allow
myself to be troubled by matters which I
cannot directly trace, though I cannot avoid
being interested in them. But what you
have said has another bearing, as though I
had done something to disgrace my name.

Of course, such a thing would be impossible,
and if I am indebted to any ill-natured person
for having aroused in you any suspicion to
my hurt, I make him my hearty acknowledgments
without bearing the slightest ill-will
against him, because after all, father, a serious
calumny should not be allowed to have weight
unless an absolute foundation of fact can be
brought forward, as cannot be done in my
case. Man must be judged by his own
actions, not by what people say of him.
You infer that this Mr. Seymour travelled
to promote infamous designs with which you
suppose me to be in sympathy. What designs,
father?"

Republicanism," said Mr. Manners, not
displeased at being brought to the point,
Socialism, Communism, and the overthrow
of existing institutions which are a blessing
to mankind."

"Ah, but there, you know," said Kingsley,
with no departure from his light mood, " you

open up debatable matter. It is not disagreeable
to me. I was always fond of argument,
although I have been accused of too freely
wandering away from one upon the slightest
excuse. You condemn Republicanism, but T
think I would sooner live under a Republic
than a Monarchy."

"What you say confirms the accusation
I and others bring against you. , '

Not at all. I am merely expressing my
view of a large matter. You see, father,
there is so much misery in the world, so
much undeserved suffering, so much compulsory
poverty, such astounding inequalities
in the social condition of the people, that
a fair - minded man cannot possibly avoid
wishing to remedy these ills. What are you
touching the bell for ? "

For the servant to show you to the
door."

"I do not need him ; I know my way
out. Your time is valuable, and it is inconsiderate

of me to take up so much of it. Is
my mother in ? "

No."

I am sorry ; I wished to see her. She
is well, I hope."

Quite well. She has not a sorrow in the
world. And now, for the last time, leave the
room — and the house."

His peremptory harsh tone had no effect
upon Kingsley, who, with a genial nod and a
Good morning, father," left the house with a
light step.

In the evening he informed Nansie and
Mr. Lovedayay of his visit to his father, and to
their astonishment described it as one of a
pleasant character. Their astonishment was
all the greater when they read a letter which
was delivered personally to Kingsley. It was
from a firm of lawyers, and was written in
accordance with instructions received from
Mr: Manners. In the first place it conveyed
an intimation that Kingsley would not be

allowed again to enter his father's house ; in
the second place it contained a warning that
if he made any further endeavour to force
himself into his fathers presence, proceedings
would be taken against him for the trespass.

"I think," said Kingsley, "that lawyers
must have been invented expressly to torment
mankind ; they never can put a thing
pleasantly. My father, I suppose, is too busy
to write to me himself, so he told his lawyers
to do so, and they, wishing to make things as
unpleasant as possible, send me a communication
couched in terms which my father would
certainly resent. Of course I shall not go to
him again until he sends for me."

So saying he tore up the letter and put it
into the fire.

A few days afterwards it was announced
in the papers that Mr. Manners had broken
up his London establishment, and with his
wife and his nephew, Mr. Mark Inglefield,
had started on a foreign tour, which was

likely to be of long duration. This paragraph
was read by Kingsley, and caused in him the
first spark of resentment he had exhibited
since his return.

I am sorry," he said, " that my father
has taken up with such a man as Mark Ingle-field.
He is dangerous and cold-blooded, and
I am afraid no friend of mine. Not that I
want him for a friend, but that, being with
my father, he may say something against us.
However, to use your dear mother's saying,
Nansie : ' Everything will come right in the
end.' "

With this comfortable assurance he dismissed
the matter from his mind, as was his
habit.

And here the course of our story renders
it necessary that the curtain shall fall for a
certain time. When it rises again seventeen
years will have passed away.

Before, however, we join the threads which
link the past with the present, we will briefly
glance through the years during which Nansie's
and Kingsley's daughter grew into the beautiful
springtime of young maidenhood, and
before whom fair visions rose even in the
midst of surroundings pernicious enough to
poison the sweetest dreams. They poison
many, and the awaking would be sad and
bitter were the home influences with which
they were from their birth familiar of a purer
and more refining nature. In judging them
we judge them from our standpoint instead
of theirs, and we too often condemn where
we should pity. In respect of these influences

Nansie's home shone forth a sweet and
bright example of what may be accomplished
when the early training is good. There were
few poorer homes than Nansie's, there were
few lives more full of struggle, but she kept
herself and those most dear to her pure
through all the bitter phases of the battle she
was destined to fight. She worked hard, and
taxed her strength to the utmost, but she
never complained, least of all to or of her
husband, who should by right have been the
bread-winner. The greatness of the sacrifice
he had made for her had, as we have seen,
deeply impressed her. At first, it is true,
the heavenly glamour of true love had wholly
possessed her, but even then, had she known
what she learnt when it was too late, she
would not have accepted the sacrifice, though
her heart had been broken. Indeed, in those
never-to-be-forgotten days the actual responsibility
lay not with her. Kingsley made so
light of the difference in their social positions,

and she was so entirely guided by him whom
she regarded as the king of men, that she had
no idea of the extent of his father's wealth or
of the difficulties in their way. Had she
been aware of these, not alone her love for
Kingsley but her practical good sense and
self-respect would have effectually directed
her not to yield to his imploring. But these
hidden from her, she followed the dictates of
her heart. All the more devoted and considerate
towards him was she when she learnt
the truth; all the more noble did his conduct
appear in her eyes. If reproach lay at
either door, it lay at hers ; if either of them
had the right to complain, it was he. In the
early days of their union she had discovered
that he was deficient in those qualities which
are necessary to fight the hard battle of life
even with moderate success. Should she
blame him for this ? What right had she todo
so ? He had not deceived her, and his
prospects and education had not been of a

nature to render him fit for the cruel battle.
All the more was he to be pitied ; all the
more need was there that she should show
him the tenderest consideration. And she
did so. Willingly did she take upon her
own shoulders the burden of the struggle,
and worked cheerfully and willingly with
heaviest odds against her. From the effects
of the railway accident he never recovered,
and his memory never returned to him.
Although he did little to help the home, his
gentleness, his contentment with a crust, his
light-heartedness, brightened it. And so they
went on to middle age, with a full measure of
love to lighten their lot.

VOL. II.

At the end of seventeen years we renew
our acquaintance with the personages who
play their part in this story ; but before they
are re-introduced it will be pertinent to touch
upon certain political changes which had
taken place in the social condition of the
people during this period. The growth of
these changes had been going on for a great
number of years, and the seeds may be said
to have been sown with the advent of the
cheap press. A slow growth at first, the
slender roots beneath the soil having scarcely
strength to take firm hold ; but as they became
stronger they became bolder, and were
now winding themselves firmly and stoutly

around the roots of old institutions which,
fixed as they had been for centuries, were in
this audacious grasp beginning to show signs
of weakness and decay. There was a time
when what is known as the higher classes
would have regarded as incredibly monstrous
the idea of affinity between them and those
who moved in the lower grooves. There
was a time when the lower classes themselves
would have regarded as the height of effrontery
the idea of raising their eyes in any other
than a timid way to the higher classes who'
ruled and dominated them. That time is
past, never to be revived. There exist here
and there in England instances of feudalism
almost as marked as any that can be drawn
from the time that is gone. In those places
the high hand is still employed to destroy
any hope of progress among the people, but
these instances are rare, and are becoming
still rarer. The penny newspaper has drawn
prince and peasant, noble and serf— for we

Q 2

have the latter even in free England — closer
together, and have taught the multitude that
all men and women are human alike, and
that there exists in the upper grades no
divine right of power and supremacy. And
strangely enough, it is through this very
means that the higher classes have been
forced to recognise the power and the might
of the lower. This new condition of things
has also been promoted by other causes than
the advancement of intelligence. The increase
of population has forced upon reasoning
minds among the people the inevitable
necessity of radical changes in the hitherto
existing order of things; and the scarecrow
of vested interests, which is set up by those
who lay claim to them, will be powerless to
check the onward march. There are, unhappily,
retarding influences, springing from
the very vices of the people, which prove
stumbling-blocks in every step that is taken
or suggested. But for these vices the victims

themselves are scarcely to blame. It is not
an inherent matter, it is a matter of birth
whether one grows up with the courtly airs
of St. James' or with the degrading characteristics
of St. Giles' ; and it is good to observe
that there are statesmen in St. James'
who recognise the fact, and who are working
honestly and earnestly towards a better end
or rather, not to speak paradoxically, towards
a better beginning. And yet, despite
these reflections, society perhaps never laboured
under greater ills than at present.
The ephemeral, vicious fashions of St. James'
were never in greater vogue than now ; the
cunning and vices of St. Giles' were nevermore
conspicuous and apparent. There was
a time when much of this, both in the higher
and lower classes, was hidden, but in the
present day everything is brought to light
in the conflict of testimony which a fair-minded
survey is forced to perceive. There
are cogent and powerful arguments to be

adduced in justification by each side against
the other, but these are small meandering
rivulets which but slightly affect the rolling
of the grand tide. Out of this seeming
chaos good must come. It is, as it has ever
been, still the fashion of the age — even now
that darkness no longer weighs heavily upon
it — to shift and evade a responsibility. Thus,
the owner of a great landed estate, in portions
of which hotbeds of vice and misery
can be found, is in the habit of shrugging
his shoulders when public attention is
directed to them, and of saying in effect :
"It is not my affair, it is the affair of my
agents." But this attitude, which springs
either from fear, cowardice, or indifference,
can no longer be accepted. It is the owner
alone who is responsible ; it is the owner
and the owner alone, who thrives and fattens
upon these systems, who is in justice accountable
for the evils of which he is undoubtedly
the breeder; and the attitude he

assumes proves him to be unfitted for his
responsibilities. The remedy is his to apply,
and if he apply it not in time the power of
doing so will be taken out of his hands. The
present opportunity is his ; the future with
its dark possibilities lies before him. It is
well if he take heed of this before it is too
late. Let us present an illustration bearing
upon our story.

Two years after Kingsley's return, Nansie
and her uncle, who constituted the government
of ways and means of the household,
decided that the rooms they occupied were
too dear; they paid for these rooms five
shillings a week. They looked out for
others, and decided upon two rooms at the
top of a house in a narrow court, in comparison
with which Church Alley was a paradise.
This court was so narrow that the
occupants of the houses on either side could
hold conversation with each other from opposite
windows. The rooms were very small,

the ceilings very low, the ventilation horrible,
the sanitary arrangements disgraceful — a description
of affairs which renders it all the
more wonderful how Nansie's daughter,
Hester, and how Nansie herself, could have
kept themselves pure and sweet in an atmosphere
so inimical to healthful moral and
physical growth. The court — with other
thoroughfares as narrow and stunted and
vicious in its immediate neighbourhood —
was built upon part of an estate which
belonged to a family the head of which sat in
the House of Lords. There was in the house
in which Nansie resided a cellar, politely
called a basement. In this cellar were two
rooms — one back, one front. The back room
had a fireplace, but no window ; what light
filtered into it was filtered through a pane of
glass let into the compartment which divided
it from the front room, and as this front
room itself could boast of but one window,
the light it supplied to its neighbour was of

a character so dismal and forlorn as scarcely
to relieve the darkness into which, by the
laws of its structure, it was plunged. But,
indeed, to call it by the name of light was
the bitterest of mockeries, not alone because
of the small play it had, but because of the
dust and cobwebs which covered both sides
of the pane of glass. In this back room, however,
lived a family of father, mother, and
three children, all pigging together — there is
no other word to describe it — in the narrow
space which may fitly be likened to the
Black Hole of Calcutta. They had certainly
one advantage — that they could run out
when they pleased and breathe the foetid air
of the court, and thence into wider thoroughfares
where the air was not vile enough to
poison them. Had this opportunity not
been theirs they would have died in a week.
The social station of the head of this family
was that of a scavenger, for six months of
the year out of work. His wife occasionally

got half a day's washing to do ; the children
were young and helpless, and the life they
all lived can be more easily imagined than
described. To describe it faithfully would
be impossible in the pages or columns of
any respectable journal, the details were so
frightful and vile. And it is in no class
spirit, in no spirit but that of mournfulness
and amazement, that the fact is repeated —
that the virtual owner of this back cellar
sat in the House of Lords.

The front room of the cellar was occupied
by a cobbler. The window which supplied
light to his room was a practicable one,
resembling a shutter of glass which could be
put up and taken down at will ; and during
the whole of the year, in fair weather or
foul — except upon those occasions, which were
frequent enough, when he was drunk — the
man could be seen by passers-by plying his
thread and awl. Fortunately for himself and
for everybody about him, he was a bachelor.

There were two rooms on the ground-floor,
the front occupied bj a " bakecl-tater
man," his wife, and two young children.
At those periods of the year when baked
potatoes with their seasoning of pepper and
salt were not in request, the man, being
a strict Conservative, was idle, allowing his
wife to accompany a friend of his, who drove
quite a roaring trade in fairly good neighbourhoods
with his barrow of seasonable
flowers. For this labour she was paid in
coin one shilling a day, and a share of his
bread and cheese or bread and meat, as well
as of the sundry pots of beer his thirsty soul
demanded in his peregrinations. Their two
children played in the gutters, being not
exceptional in this respect, because most of
the children in the court found in the gutters
a veritable Crystal Palace of delights.

The back room on the ground-floor was
occupied by a large family — father, mother,
and seven children — all employed from

morning till night, and often from night till
morning, upon the manufacture of match-boxes,
at the rate of twopence three-farthings
a gross. Their united earnings never exceeded
fifteen shillings, often were less. Thus the
grim effort to make both ends meet, no less
than their close and long hours of toil,
rendered them white, pinched, haggard-looking,
and almost fleshless.

On the first-floor front lived a married
couple with an only child. The man had
once been a law-writer, probably not a very
skilful or capable scribe, seeing he had never
been able to save a penny. However, it was
here he found himself plunged into poverty's
depths and unable to follow his calling, the
muscles of his right hand being paralysed.
The wife had become a shirt-maker, and was
assisted by her child, a girl of sixteen.
Neither of these was a skilful workwoman,
and after the payment of their rent there
was seldom left at the end of the week more

than seven or eight shillings to expend in
food.

The first-floor back was tenanted by a
widow with two children, twins, a little more
than a year old. Being unable to find any
other means of living she had, by force of
circumstances, drifted into the rear ranks
of the ballet, where she helped to fill the
stage on a salary of two shillings a night.
Commencing late in life to learn to dance,
there was for her no hope of promotion in the
ranks. Her lot was hard enough, Heaven
knows ; but she would have found it harder,
because of the impossibility of leaving her
babies every night for a good many hours
together, had it not been for the kindness
of the law-writer's wife and daughter, who
often looked after them when the mother
was absent.

In the rooms on the second floor, which
were very small attics with slanting roofs,
lived Nansie, Kingsley, and their daughter.

Mr. Lovedayay took his moiils with them, but
slept elsewhere. The front attic was used
as a living-room during the day, and as a
bedroom during the night — the shut-up bedstead
being sometimes occupied by Kingsley
alone and sometimes by Hester. Altogether
there slept in this small house twenty-eight
persons. The frontage of the house was
twelve feet, its depth twenty feet ; and it
will be gathered from these dimensions how
utterly unsuitable it was in the way of health
and morals for so large a number of occupants.
In this respect, anything more vicious
can scarcely be imagined, and yet this house
was but one of many built upon land owned
by an enormously wealthy man, one who
helped to make laws for the social regeneration
of the people. "Were the facts forced
upon his knowledge in the way of accusation,
he would doubtless plead ignorance
of the circumstances, as others have pleaded
before him ; but this convenient blindness

to the truth will not serve ; this convenient
shifting of responsibility is of no avail ; an
unfaithful steward he has been, and an unfaithful
steward he remains.

It was a great night at the Wilberforce
Club, and the members mustered in force.
Numbers were unable to obtain admission,
and the spaces outside the room in which
the club held its meetings were thronged by
working men and lads, many of them members
of the Wilberforce. These, although
disappointed at being shut out, did not
give vent to their feelings in the shape of
grumbling, but good-humouredly accepted the
position, and split themselves into convenient
knots for the purposes of discussion.

The Wilberforce was a working man's
club, similar in its nature and aims to the
numerous institutions of a like character

which exist in the centres of labour in all
the great towns and cities of the kingdom.
It commenced with small beginnings, the
original number of members being twelve,
who met weekly at the lodgings of one or
the other for the purpose of discussing political
matters affecting themselves. A very
short time passed before others made application
to be allowed to join the band of twelve,,
and then the idea was formed of organising a
working man's club, to be called the Wilberforce.
The originator of this movement was
a man of strong opinions, by trade a carpenter.
He was a ready orator, and he ruled
over his followers by force of this gift, as well
as by the superior knowledge he possessed
of the movements of the age in which he
lived. It may not be uninteresting to place
upon record a report of the meeting at
which the club may have said to have been
born.

By consent of a licensed victualler it was

VOL. II. R

held in a room in the "Three Jolly Butcher
Boys," a noted public-house in the neighbourhood.
There were some thirty persons
present, all humble, earnest, hard-working
labourers in different crafts. Mr. Bartholomew,
the carpenter and initiator of the
movement, elected himself into the chair.

We are only a scattered body as yet,"
he said, "and none of us has the proper
authority to propose and second a chairman,
so by your leave " He moved

to the head of the table and seated himself.
Drawing out his two-foot rule he used
it as a mace to rap the table.

A dozen of us," he said, rising to his feet
when all the others were seated and silent,
"have been meeting for a little while past
at one place and another, with a notion that
opening our minds to each other wouldn't
do any harm. That has been proved ; it
has done good. There ain't one of the dozen
who don't understand the rights and wrongs

of things better than he did before. Now,
this was no hole and corner affair, and as
it's got about, and as there's a wish of a
good many others to join us, why, I say, ' Join
us and welcome.' "

There was a murmur of approval, and
a general rapping of knuckles and scraping
of feet on the part of the original
eleven.

The more the merrier, I say," continued
Mr. Bartholomew. " What we are working
for, or what we are going to work for, is
the general good of all alike — in a fairway,
mind ! Nothing wrong, nothing violent
"

"Hear, hear," from the auditors.

"Everything constitutional. When my
wife doesn't agree with me, I don't knock
her down, as brutes do — I argue with her;
if that don't make her agree with me, I keep
on arguing with her ; and if she's that obstinate
that she won't agree with me even

r 2

then, I go on arguing with her ; and the
upshot of it is that I fairly wear her down,
and in the end she's bound to agree with

o

me."

Murmurs of approval and a little laughter
from the audience, with here and there a
sotto-voce remark : " Bartholomew knows what
he's about."

Now," pursued Mr. Bartholomew, " that's
what I call constitutional. I don't mean to
say that I ain't open to conviction myself,
but when a man knows he's right, all that
he's got to do is to go ahead — always in a
constitutional way. Now there's the Government
— it's right, or it's wrong. If it's right,
let it remain as it is ; if it's wrong, it's got to
be altered."

It's wrong, that's what it is," blurted out
a working man.

Not so fast, not so fast," said Mr. Bartholomew
; " saying it's wrong don't make it
so. We've got to find it out by argument and

open minds, constitutionally, and that ain't a
thing for to-night ; and it ain't a thing that
can be settled in a day, or a week, or a month,
or a year. It'll take time, because — I don't
mind confessing to you my opinion — that
what's got to be done is no trifling matter ;
it's a mighty matter, mates, with kings, and
queens, and princes, and princesses, and prime
ministers, and chancellors of the exchequer,
all mixed up in it. Do you know what I call
those ladies and gentlemen, mates ? I call
them the fallings. The solid mass, the real
body, is here." He gave the table a great
thump with his fist.

Bravo, Bartholomew ! " from many
voices. " We've got a man at the head
of us ! "

The excitement was beginning to rise.

You ain't got anybody at the head of
you. All that sort of thing — forming ourselves
into an institution, election of officers,
and so on — has got to be done. We're just

then, I go on arguing with her ; and the
upshot of it is that I fairly wear her down,
and in the end she's bound to agree with
me."

Murmurs of approval and a little laughter
from the audience, with here and there a
sotto-voce remark : " Bartholomew knows what
he's about."

Now," pursued Mr. Bartholomew, " that's
what I call constitutional. I don't mean to
say that I ain't open to conviction myself,
but when a man knows he's right, all that
he's got to do is to go ahead — always in a
constitutional way. Now there's the Government
— it's right, or it's wrong. If it's right,
let it remain as it is ; if it's wrong, it's got to
be altered."

It's wrong, that's what it is," blurted out
a working man.

Not so fast, not so fast," said Mr. Bartholomew
; " saying it's wrong don't make it
so. We've got to find it out by argument and

open minds, constitutionally, and that ain't a
thing for to-night ; and it ain't a thing that
can be settled in a day, or a week, or a month,
or a year. It'll take time, because — I don't
mind confessing to you my opinion — that
what's got to be done is no trifling matter ;
it's a mighty matter, mates, with kings, and
queens, and princes, and princesses, and prime
ministers, and chancellors of the exchequer,
all mixed up in it. Do you know what I call
those ladies and gentlemen, mates ? I call
them the shillings. The solid mass, the real
body, is here." He gave the table a great
thump with his fist.

Bravo, Bartholomew ! " from many
voices. " We've got a man at the head
of us ! "

The excitement was beginning to rise.

You ain't got anybody at the head of
you. All that sort of thing — forming ourselves
into an institution, election of officers,
and so on — has got to be done. We're just

of uttering this small word which caused
general laughter — "I blame ourselves. I was
saying that every man has the regulation
number of limbs and members, the regulation
measure of appetite, the regulation instincts,
sentiments, and all that sort of thing, and I
was going to say when I was interrupted that
you'll find something in Coriolanus about the
stomach which rather bears upon the point.
I dare say there are one or two in the room
who'll remember my mentioning this at a
meeting before the last general election, when
I spoke against the Conservative candidate.
It was a Conservative meeting, and the hall
was pretty well packed with one-sides, but
the candidate — a gentleman, mates — got mea
fair hearing, and I was listened to. Yes,
you were there, and you " — pointing to two
in the room who nodded gravely. " Well,
when I'd done about this Coriolanus and the
stomach business, up gets the Conservative
candidate and says : ' I don't for a moment

doubt that our good friend, Mr. Bartholomew
' — he knew my name ; I handed it upto
him on paper, not having an engraved
card "

<( Ha! ha! ha!" from the back of the
room.

Mr. Bartholomew looked severely in that
direction, and said :

What are you ha ! ha ! ha-king about ?
Do you think I want to make a point against
gentlemen who carry cards ? You're mistaken,
though perhaps I too was wrong in
the way I put it. ' I don't for a moment
doubt said the Conservative candidate, ' that
our good friend, Mr. Bartholomew, who I
hope one day will blossom into a good Conservative
' — between you and me, mates, that
will be never."

Hear, hear."

' I don't for a moment doubt that he is
right about what he says of Coriolanus and
the application of it. I don't remember the

lines myself, but I will take them from him,
and I will give him an answer in an anecdote.
There was a serpent once, a regulation
serpent, a twining, slimy, creeping, crawling
reptile, with head, and tail, and all other
necessary parts. Now, Mr. Bartholomew
knows that it is a law of nature for serpents
that in going through life the head goes first.
I don't know exactly how old the serpent
was when its tail ranged itself upon what
I may call the opposition side. It said to the
head : " Look here, I ain't going to be dragged
about in this manner all day long, and all
night long, just where you like to take me.
I won't stand it. It's my turn for an innings ;
fair play is fair play." All the other parts
of the serpent joined in the argument, and
the tail was so noisy and blustering that it
carried along with it every bit of the serpent
but the head. Now, it unfortunately happened,'
said the Conservative candidate, ' that

this particular head of this particular serpent
was weak-minded ; anyhow, it was foolish
enough to say : " Put it to the vote, and I'll
stand by it. You shall decide who goes first,
the tail or me." It was put to the vote, and
it was decided by a large majority that the
tail was right, and that it ought to have an
innings. " Very well," says the head, " I resign."
Then the tail, crying, " Come along,"
took command. But, my friends said the
Conservative candidate, ' you don't need to
be told — though perhaps it will enlighten
Mr. Bartholomew — that the eyes of a serpent's
body are in its head, and not in its tail, and
that as the tail dragged its way along it
couldn't see where it was going. It got into
a prickly hedge, and when the other portions
of the body felt the sting and the pain they
cried out : " What are you about ? " li Oh,
that's nothing," answered the tail, working
its way out of the prickly hedge, "lam new

to the business, that's all ; you must put
up with a mistake or two — that's only
fair, you know." " Yes, yes," said the other
parts of the body ; " go on, go on." He did,
and same to a part of the forest where there
was a smouldering fire. Straight into this
fire crept the tail, and, maddened with pain,
crept farther into it, hoping to escape, and in
less than no time the tail and the other rebellious
parts of the body were burnt to ashes.
The head alone remained.' "

Mr. Bartholomew paused for a moment or
two, and then said :

I see some of you fidgeting at your
pipes. Fill 'em and smoke 'em. We're not
regularly formed, and whether we shall
always be at liberty to smoke while we're
talking is a matter for you to settle by-and-by."


The pipes being filled and lighted, Mr.
Bartholomew went on.

"That w T as the story the Conservative

candidate told, and it set the packed meeting
cheering and laughing to that degree that I
couldn't get in another word, and was supposed
to be settled. But the Conservative
candidate made a great many serious mistakes
in that illustration. He intended to liken the
Government of England, and everybody else
in it, to one single being, whether it was
beast, bird, or fish don't matter, because it
won't do, mates, because it doesn't apply.
True enough there must be a head to all
constituted societies, to all forms of government,
but, mates "

And here the speaker rested his two
hands upon the table and bent earnestly
forward.

We who are governed have eyes ; we're
not like the serpent's tail — we can see where
we're going. The road is stretched before us,
and our eyes are open. The serpent's tail
not only had no eyes, he had no brains — we
have, and we can judge. The serpent's tail

not only had no eyes and no brains, it Lad no
heart — we have, and we can see, and judge,
and love, and suffer, and enjoy with as large
a capacity as those who govern us. I don't for
one moment believe that the view the Conservative
candidate took — he didn't get in,
you know, mates "

Ha, ha, ha ! " from the audience.

Is the view entertained by the Conservative
party, the leading members of which
are far too sensible and clever to put forward
such narrow-minded theories. But it must
never be forgotten that they're in the main
looking out more for themselves, and for their
own interests, than for us and ours. That's
human nature, and I don't complain of it ; if
I did, it would be in a measure like cutting
the ground from under our own feet, because
one of the objects of this meeting — the
principal object, I may say — is to look
after ourselves and our own interests, which

we've got the idea has been rather lost
sight of. Now. before I come to the
wind up of my speech — it has been a
great deal longer than I intended to make

it

Not a bit too long, Bart," was the
general cry.

Much obliged, mates. Before I come to
the end of it, I want to impress one thing
upon you. All over the world there are to
be found men who go in for equality, with a
capital E. Some of those men are scholars,
lots of 'em clever and talented ; but, mates,
they've got a warp in their minds. Such a
thing as equality ain't possible. If it was
possible to establish it at nine o'clock tonight,
by nine o'clock tomorrow morning it
wouldn't exist. There must be different
degrees among human beings, there must be
inequalities, like the very world we live
in, which, as we've been taught in school,

resembles the outside of an orange. But our
argument is — because I suppose we're pretty
well agreed upon it — that the inequalities
are now too great, and require to be rubbed
down a bit. It's a difficult question, and it's
got to be treated with good sense. And
now, thanking you for your attention, and
the meeting being regularly opened, we'll
proceed to business."

Mr. Bartholomew sat down amid a volley
of applause, after which there was a long
silence, he being really the only practical
man among them ; or, to speak more correctly,
the only man who had practice in
this kind of movement, and knew how to
conduct it.

The first thing we've got to do, you
know," he said, looking around, " is to propose
a resolution forming ourselves into a
distinct body. As the chairman of the
meeting I can't propose any resolution ; it
is for one of you to do it."

All right, chairman," said a bold boot
and shoemaker, " I do it."

What ? " inquired Mr. Bartholomew.

Propose it," said the bold boot and shoemaker.


Propose what ? " asked Mr. Bartholomew.


That we're a distinct body," said the
bold boot and shoemaker.

"I seconds it," said another boot and
shoemaker, starting up, and sinking instantly
into his chair, covered with confusion. It
was the first public speech he had ever
made.

No, no, that won't do," said Mr. Bartholomew,
"you must put it in words — understandable
words. You propose that we form
ourselves into a working man's club. That's
your proposition, ain't it ? "

That's it," said the bold boot and shoemaker,


"And you second it," said Mr. Bartholomew.

II. S

mew, looking at boot and shoemaker No. 2,
who faintly nodded. He had not the courage
to speak again.

It is proposed by Mr. Richard Chappel,"
said Mr. Bartholomew, " boot and shoemaker,
and seconded by Mr. William Blackmore,
that we form ourselves into a working man's
club, we being all of us Liberals, and our
chief object being the political and social
advancement of working men generally.
Those in favour of the resolution signify
it in the usual manner by holding up their
hands."

Every hand was held up.

On the contrary," said the chairman.


Full half of those present held up their
hands.

No, no, no," cried the chairman, " there
must be something wrong here. You, Stokes,
and you, Manning, and you, Bill Forbes, and

you, William Blackmore, who seconded the
resolution, all voted for it, of course, and now
you vote against it. You can't vote two
ways ! "

Boot and shoemaker No. 2, with a whiteface,
whispered something in a neighbour's
ear, who thereupon said :

Blackmore says he always votes on the
contrary. He does it at home."

But that can't be here," said the
chairman ; "we must all vote one way or
the other. Are you in favour of this
club ? "

Yes," every man cried.

Is there any one not in favour of
it?"

No," every man cried.

Then it's carried," said the chairman,
"unanimously. Now we must give it a

name."

Upon the face of every man present

dwelt a pondering expression, the general
just interpretation of which would be vacuity.
Half-a-dozen put their fingers to their brows,
but not one of them had a name to
propose.

The ever-ready chairman — and be it here
remarked that Mr. Bartholomew was as
good-humoured as he was apt — rose and
said :

It ain't the lightest of matters to give
a fit name to such a club as ours. I think I
can suggest one."

Bart's the cleverest chap in the country,"
said one of the audience. " He ought to be
Prime Minister. "

Mr. Bartholomew resumed.
I don't throw it in your teeth, mates ;
it's only a matter of reading, and I don't
doubt in a year or two that some of you will
know as much as me, and a good deal more.
I don't throw it in your teeth, I say, that

perhaps none of you ever heard the name
of William Wilberforce."

They looked at each other, and shook their
heads.

He wasn't a working man, he was a gentleman
with plenty of money ; born a gentleman,
and bred at college. But, mates, he
was a man who saw things with a clear eye,
and a clear heart that bled at the sight of
oppression, and with a mind steadfast enough
to accomplish what it was set upon. It is
to William Wilberforce that we may say
we owe — not only ice, but all mankind —
the abolition of slavery."

Tremendous applause.

I don't know how many years this grand
gentleman worked for it — worked and fought
for it. He was beat over and over again in
the House of Commons and the House of
Lords, but he stuck to his guns, and on
his death-bed he had the good news brought

to him that the second reading of the
Abolition of Slavery Bill was carried. He
was a man, and every Englishman is proud
of him. He was a man because he worked
and fought on the side of humanity, and
if any one here will propose that our
club be called the ' Wilberforce Club ' I
don't think he could do a much better day's
work."

Up jumped a dozen and proposed it, and
the chairman conducted the question to an
orderly issue. It was carried that the title
of the institution should be the "Wilberforce
Club." Then, pioneered by Mr. Bartholomew,
other small matters of detail were discussed
and settled. Present subscription of members,
one penny per week, and the first
week's subscription was paid into the hands
of an elected treasurer. Sub - committees
were appointed to form rules for the guidance
of the club, and to look out for a

suitable room in which to gather together.
And then the meeting broke up, satisfied
and gratified with the work it had
done.

END OF VOL. II.

CHABLBS^DICKENS AND EVANS, CRYSTAL PALACE Press

a

3 0112 045831549

HI

-

BY

B. L. FAEJEOIT,

Author OP ''BLADE-O'-GRASS," 'Grief," "tHE TRAGEDY OF FEATHERSTONE,'
"in a silver SEA," ETC.

For life the prologue is to death,
And love its sweetest flower ; "

And death is as the spring of life,
And love its richest dower.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. III.

WARD AND DOWNEY,
12, YORK STREET, COVENT GARDEN", W.C.

1888.

All rights reserved.'\

TOILERS OF BABYLON.

CHAPTER I.

From the day of its formation the Wilberforce
Club had prospered, and although
it could never boast of more than sufficient
funds to carry out its modest requirements,
the principal of which were books and newspapers,
it had become in some sense a political
power in the district. As was right, Mr.
Bartholomew, to whom its existence was due,
was elected its first president, a position
which he filled for many years ; but although
he was still in vigour of life, he had resolved
to retire from the office, and in spite of all
attempts to induce him to withdraw his

VOL. III. B

resignation, be insisted that it was time a
new president should be appointed.

*' You want new blood, my lads," he
said; "you might as well have a king over
you as a president who reigns all the years
of his life. A stirring up of the waters is
good for the people. If the new man doesn't
work to your satisfaction I will take office
again, perhaps. The vacation will rub the
rust off me."

It was, therefore, for the purpose of
choosing another president that the Wilberforce
Club mustered in full force. It was
bruited about, and indeed known to some
few, that there was a likelihood of the introduction
of a personal matter at the meeting
which might prove exciting and interesting.
Mr. Bartholomew had found it no easy task
to keep well in hand a strong and full-blooded
team such as the members of this
working man's club. Boys with ideas, and
with a fresher and more advanced kind of

education than their parents had received,
had grown to be men, and were playing
their part at the club meetings, and in the
social gatherings ; and to this younger
element the prospect of a change in the
direction of affairs was not unpalatable.
Upon Mr. Bartholomew the necessity of
keeping a tight hand upon these youthful
members, whose ideas were apt to run ahead'
of the times, had frequently impressed itself.
«

There were two candidates for the presidency.
One was Mr. Eichard Chappel, who
had taken part in the initiatory meeting at
which the club was constituted. He was
then somewhat of a timid orator, but he
was an apt scholar, and was now fully competent
to conduct working men's meetings.
He was fairly popular, and had many supporters.
The other candidate was Kingsley
Manners, who was popular, and a favourite
with all the members of the Wilberforce

B 2

Club. By some he was considered not strict
or strong enough to lead, but a good proportion
of those who entertained this notion had
determined to support him. It was not of
his own wish that he had come forward for the
office. He had been proposed by a powerful
section who believed that through him it
could work its own ends. The backbone of
this section were the young members, who
were always ready to take a foremost part
in any agitation — such as entertainments, in
the heart of which lurked some political
object ; processions against, or in favour of
some measure which was then beinsr discussed
in the House of Commons ; the right of
public meeting in public places, and so forth.
These ambitious and hot-blooded members
had been kept in moderate subjection by
Mr. Bartholomew, and now rejoiced in the
prospect of a president of less force of
character.

Nansie's uncle, Mr. Lovedayay, was also a

member of the Wilberforce. He had joined
it at Nansie's solicitation, who was in
anxiety lest Kingsley, through his easy
nature, should be prevailed upon to take
part in some violent movement. Mr. Love-day's
reports to her had removed this cause
of alarm.

Kingsley does no harm at the club,'^
he said ; *' it is an amusement and a relaxation
to him. He knows that he is liked
by all the members, and the knowledge
affords him pleasure ; and he obtains there
books and papers which occupy his mind,
and which otherwise would be out of his
reach."

Kingsley's candidature for the presidency
had, however, seriously discomposed Mr.
Lovedayay. He saw beneath the surface, and
suspected that Kingsley was simply put forward
to assist the views of others.

Mr. Bartholomew opened the proceedings.

"You know," he said, 'what we are

met to decide. This is the last occasion —
at least, for some time — upon which I shall
take the chair at the gatherings of the
Wilberforce ; but that will not lessen my
interest in its welfare, and I shall work
quite as hard and earnestly as a soldier in
the ranks as I have done in the position of
your chief. Now, I want to give you a
little bit of advice. Times are different
from when this club was first started ; men
and opinions are more advanced ; there is
a better kind of education going on in the
land, and people who, under the old ways,
would never have learnt to read and write
can now do both very well. But I want
to warn you. It's a good thing to be able
to read and write, but it's a better thing
to be able to profit by these advantages.
Go ahead we must ; the onward march
cannot be stopped, but beware of going
ahead too fast. Slow and sure is a motto
I was not very fond of when I was a young

man, but I have learnt its value since,
especially in such movements as ours.
There is no telling what changes the next
fifty years may see ; in my opinion they
will be more startling than any that has
gone before ; but in order that these changes
shall be for the real benefit of the people
that is to say, of us — it will be necessary
to look before we leap. Now, I am not
going to particularise ; I am speaking in a
general sense. There are individual instances
of wrong with which I sympathise as much
as any of you can do, but I don't intend
to make any such instance a ground for
general action. What we have to attend
to is the interest and prosperity of ourselves
as a body. According to the rules, you
are now to elect a president for the year.
You have done me the honour of re-electing
me again and again for a number of years,
and I believe I have given you satisfaction.
I hope that our new president will work

as I have done — for the general good of
all."

Mr. Bartholomew having resumed his
seat, a member rose to propose Mr. Eichard
Chappel as president. He was duly seconded,
and then another member proposed Mr.
Kingsley Manners, who was also seconded.
There being no other candidates, the aspirants
for office addressed the meeting

** I propose," said Mr. Chappel, *' to tread
in the footsteps of our late worthy president,
Mr. Bartholomew. I quite agree with him
in all his opinions, and all he has done.
More haste, less speed. We have never
been in a hurry, and we have done a good
deal since we started. In elections we have
made ourselves a bit of a power, and the
reason of this is that we have always seen
where we were going to fix our nails ; we
have not knocked them wildly about, and
made holes in wrong places. If you elect

me as your president, I will do the best I
can in the office."

'* Good," said Mr. Bartholomew.

Good," also said and thought many of
the elder members ; but the younger ones
looked at each other and shook their heads.

*richard Chappel promises nothing," said
one, starting up.

What do you want him to promise ? "
asked Mr. Bartholomew; and as young Hotblood
could not exactly say, he sat down
abashed, but in no wise satisfied.

That is it," said Mr. Bartholomew ;
and I should like you to bear it in mind.
I don't wish to influence you, nor to say
a word against Mr. Kingsley Manners, who
is a favourite with all of us ; but as a
common member of the club I am entitled,
as every other common member is, to express
my opinion upon this subject. Here is a
candidate for office, Mr. Richard Chappel,

who pledges himself, if elected, to govern the
club in the same way that it has hitherto
been governed ; and here is one of our
members jumping up and saying that he
promises nothing. To that I reply that
Richard Chappel promises a great deal. He
promises to do everything that is constitutional
; he promises to act for the benefit
of the club, as I have acted. If that doesn't
satisfy you, I don't know what will. Mind,
I'm not saying one word against Mr. Manners
; I respect and like him, but I shall
give my vote to Eichard Chappel."

Let us hear Mr. Manners," said a
member.

Kingsley rose and addressed the meeting.
He had for some little while past regarded
this approaching event as of great importance,
and had prepared himself for it. He
said he was in favour of public meeting
in all public spaces. He spoke strongly

against the monopoly of brewers and distillers.
He advocated universal suffrage, and
he characterised as infamous the neglect of
sanitary laws in the dwellings of the people.
The whole aim of government, he said, should
be for the benefit of the many, and not of
the few. There were old - time privileges
which, perhaps, could not be suddenly
abolished, but to which, at all events, a
limit should be set. He spoke for half an
hour, and the tenor of his observations
may be gathered from this brief description.
When he sat down some were pleased, some
were displeased, some did not know exactly
what to think

"Mr. Manners," said Mr. Bartholomew,
"has generalised almost as much as Eichard
Chappel."

"No," cried some of Kingsley's supporters
; " there is a great difference between
them."

"Let US hear, aod discuss," said Mr.
Bartholomew, " it will open our minds."

'^AVhat does Eichard Chappel say about
universal suffrage ? " asked a member.

Eichard Chappel scratched his head. He
had not given the subject that necessary consideration
which enabled him to reply on the
instant. Up jumped Mr. Bartholomew.

*' I like that hesitation on Eichard Chappel's
part," he said. '* Universal suffrage has
bothered cleverer heads than any in this
room."

'* AVhat do you say about it ? " asked a
bold member.

Mr. Bartholomew laughed.

** I would give it to every man who hasa
right to it."

Every man has a right to it ! "

"No, no; there must be qualifications.
The Reform Act did a lot for us, and a lot
has been done since, and a lot more will be

done in the future. There must be electoral
qualification. Even in our little club here,
every man has not a right to become a
member. The difference between some of us
is this — we agree upon the main point,
but we do not agree in the way of
bringing it about. ' Go slow is my
motto."

Yes," grumbled one, '^ and die before wee
reap."

Perhaps," said Mr. Bartholomew, gravely.
But does that lessen the value of our work,
which, I take it, lies greatly in its unselfishness
? We look more to the future than to
the present. We think of our children, and
of the benefits they will enjoy, benefits
brought about by us who may not live to
see the fruit."

Much discussion of a similar nature followed,
and it seemed likely at one time that
the result would be largely influenced by the

private wrongs of a member who had resolved
to take tins opportunity of ventilating his
private wrongs, and had, indeed, been urged
to that course by the more inflammatory
spirits. His story was not an uncommon one,
and may be narrated in a very few words.
He was a working man, of course, with
one child, a daughter whom he idolised.
This daughter, to his grief and despair, had
left her home, and it was, the father said, a
gentleman who had brought the shame upon
them. The man was very eloquent in his
description of the monstrous wrong. He did
not know the name or the whereabouts of the
villain who had inflicted it, and said that if
he could find him he would strike him dead
at his feet. Mr. Bartholomew was too wise
to prevent the father from speaking, although
he strongly disapproved of the intrusion of
this private matter into the club business ; but
he saw that it had been pre-arranged, and

was intended to influence the election in
favour of Kingsley. As a prudent general,
therefore, he proposed the adjournment of
the meeting, which broke up in some slight
confusion.

This meeting led to important results. It
is by small and apparently trivial matters
that the main issues of life are determined.
A fall of rain, the plucking of a flower, the
accidental turning to the right or the left
any one of these trifling incidents is sufficient
to stamp the future with an indelible
impress.

Parkinson was the name of the man
whose daughter had been tempted from her
home by the false wooing of a man in a
superior station of life to her own ; the
daughters name was Mary. The disclosure
of this private wrong proved to be the
most exciting incident in the proceedings

of the Wilberforce Club on the night of
the proposed election, and after the meeting
broke up the grievance formed the subject
of animated discussion all around the neighbourhood.
To feel and express sympathy
for the father was humanly natural, but,
here and there this sympathy was expressed
in an unreasoning and dangerous
manner, and served as a peg — as was-attempted
at the Wilberforce — upon which,
to hang an ominous string of hardships as
between class and class. Dr. Perriera, who
had remained a firm and faithful friend to
Nansie and her family, had just listened to
certain outpourings of this nature mouthed
by a trenchant demagogue to a small band
of working men and lads, among whom,
also, was Mr. Lovedayay. These two more
intelligent of the audience walked away
together.

*' It is remarkable," said Dr. Perriera, " to
note the blindness of these ignorant orators

^ - VOL. III. c

to palpable facts. The way in which Mary
Parkinson was brought up was enough to
ruin any girl. A father at work all day,
and spending his nights at the Wilberforce
Club. A mother, dying when her daughter
was twelve years of age, and leaving as a
legacy to her child a recollection of frivolities.
This was one of the reasons — perhaps the
principal one — why Parkinson spent nearly all
his leisure time away from his home. His
wife had no notion of domestic duties, was a
bad cook, and either would not or could not
make his home attractive to him. Parkinson is
a good and skilful workman, has never been illa
week in his life, has never been out of employment.
This is an unusual record ; but it has
not benefited him. When his wife was alive, she
and he between them spent every penny of his
earnings ; she was fond of incongruous colour
in her dress, fond of mock jewellery, fond
of aping the foolish fashions of her betters.
She was fond of worse things — of music-halls

and their brutalising vulgarity. I am
well aware that it is absolutely necessary
to provide amusement for the people ; without
it life would be unendurable ; but I
have always been of the opinion, and experience
has confirmed it, that amusement ina
worse form than that provided by the
music-hall could scarcely be devised. I speak
of the entertainments as a whole. There
are portions of them which are innocently
amusing and healthful, but the most popular
features are those which the exponents of
coarseness and vulgarity provide. I had some
opportunity of studying Mrs. Parkinson's
character, and I know that it was this coarser
element of the entertainments that attracted
her. I frequently heard her singing verses
of songs which I regret to say were and
are popular, and the true meaning of which
is an offence to decency. The mischief is
that this moral poison is at the bottom

of the cup ; but it is well known toc

2

be there by everybody who partakes of
it ; and even when it is so cleverly veiled
that it can only be conveyed by a motion
or a gesture, this form of expression is
carried away by the audience and used by
them when they sing the song in private.
It is to Parkinson's credit that he preferred
the Wilberforce Club to the music-hall ; but
it is not to his credit that he left the
entire social education and recreation of his
daughter to one so unfitted for these duties
as his wife. I would not make life too
serious, but I refuse to excuse any person
who ignores its responsibility. Parkinson
allowed his wife to take their little Mary to
the music-halls and to implant in her nature
a foundation of frivolity, which has borne
bad fruit ; it could not be hoped that it
would bear good."

*' I agree entirely with you," said Mr.
Lovedayay, 'rand if I take the matter more
closely to heart it is because of the affection

wbicli our Hester bears for the poor girl.
Mary is bright and attractive, and has many
good qualities''

'' Good qualities which needed home training,"
said Dr. Perriera, 'sand which should
not have been allowed to run wild. Bright
and attractive ! Frequently a misfortune
when the early education has been bad. I
will finish my argument. The orator to
whom we have just listened is one of an
unreasoning class who takes into account only
the faults and errors of one side of his case.
That side, in his view, is thoroughly black ;
the other side is thoroughly white. Fair-minded
men are bound to take into consideration
both cause and effect, and men
incapable of doing this are not fitted to lead.
I am sorry that Mr. Bartholomew has resigned
the presidency of the Wilberforce ; in
addition to beings a man of sound advanced
opinions, he was a restraining force. Do you
think Kingsley Manners fit for the position ? "

T do not," replied Mr. Loved ay, firmly,
and I have done all I could to dissuade
him from standing for office. At times I
thought I was succeeding, but some kind of
outside influence has always thwarted me.
'A man must follow his star,' he said, and
he said it, I believe, with but a vague idea
of his meaning."

^* There are members of the Wilberforce,"
said Dr. Perriera, " who want to use Kingsley
Manners as a tool, and he, with his amiable
nature, might easily be led into a false
position. His true friends must save him
from this danger, if possible."

'the difficulty is to find a way," observed
Mr. Lovedayay.

As he made this remark a hand was laid
upon his arm, and turning, he saw Nansie.
From her face the beauty of youth had not
fled ; sorrow and trial had left their traces
there, but her brave spirit and cheerful endurance
of Ions: hours of toil had so chastened

her that no one could be long in her
presence without being made to feel that
here was one in whom the highest attributes
of fortitude, faith, and duty's performance,
were manifest. The time was within a few
minutes to eleven, and Mr. Lovedayay was
surprised to see her out at that hour of the
night.

'* Do you know where Kingsley is ? " she
asked.

No," replied Mr. Lovedayay. "Is he not
at home ? "

*' He has not returned yet," said Nansie,
and I am anxious about him."

'* I will find him for you," said Mr. Love-day.
" He will come home at once when he
hears you are uneasy about him."

** Yes, I know he will do that. I should
like to see him myself, to explain "

Nansie," cried Mr. Lovedayay, as she
paused, "something is troubling you."

"Yes," she answered, frankly; " I cannot

tell you what it is — I do not think I
ought."

"Where is Hester?"

At home, alone. She will not go to bed
until her father returns."

** But you, Nansie, are you not going
back ? "

'* No ; I have something to do that will
keep me out late. That is what I wished
to see Kingsley for — to explain it to him.
Tell him I may not be home till the
morning, and that Hester is waiting for him.
He is not to worry himself; everything is
right."

** There goes a true woman," said Dr.
Perriera, looking after her, *' upon an errand
of mercy and goodness."

Do you know what it is ? " asked Mr.
Lovedayay.

** No, nor can I guess, but I would stake
my life that it is as I say, and that you

believe as I do, notwithstanding that we are
both in the dark."

You are right' said Mr. Lovedayay.
*' Dr. Perriera, misfortune sometimes proves
a blessing. It has been so to me. Had I
been rich and prosperous, I doubt whether
it would have been given to me to know the
perfect sweetness and beauty to be found in
common lives."

"It is the fashion to call them common
lives," responded Dr. Perriera, "though here
and there is a life which an anojel would be
proud to live."

Some three months after this nip'ht a gentleman
was sitting with a friend in a well-appointed
house in Harley Street. The host
was a man in the prime of life, his name
Hollingworth ; the guest was his elder in
years, his name Manners — none other than
the once great contractor — Mr. Valentine
Manners, Kingsley's father. They had dined,
and were sitting over their claret.

Mr. Valentine Manners had honos since
retired from business. For many years he
had travelled the world in search of something
he knew not what — which he had lost, and
had returned home without finding it. Part
of the time his nephew, Mark Inglefield, who

was to be his heir, had travelled with him ;
but the younger man had made periodical
visits to England upon his uncle's private
affairs, of which he had the practical management.
A fortune so vast as Mr. Valentine
Manners had amassed was in itself a business,
the care of which occupied a great deal of
time.

Mr. Hollingworth and his guest had
discussed many matters, the most important
of which was a proposed marriage between



Mr. HoUingworth's only daughter, Beatrice,
and Mark Inglefield, the rich contractor's
heir. The girl was barely twenty, Mark
Inglefield nearly fifty ; but these disparities
are not uncommon in matrimonial unions in
which money and not love is the principal
factor. Mr. Hollingworth had only one
other child, a son of twenty-six, who had
just been elected a member of the House
of Commons. The conversation of the two
gentlemen was interrupted by the announcement

of a servant that a man wished to
see Mr. Hollingworth.

The tone of the servant when he uttered
the words *' a man '* was a sufficient indication
of his opinion of the visitor's
standing. Mr. Hollingworth accepted his
servant's opinion.

Did you say I was busy ? "

I told him so, sir, and that you could
not be disturbed."

Well ? "

He said he must see you, sir, and that
he would come every day and night till he
did."

Mr. Hollingworth groaned.

Did he give you his name ? "

** Yes, sir, and said you would know it.
Mr. Parkinson — a stone-mason, he said he
was."

** Parkinson — Parkinson ! I do not know
the man, and I have not been engaged

in building. More in your way, Mr.
Manners."

His guest nodded, but made no remark ;
there was nothing in the incident to interest
him.

*'He has been here several times this
week, sir," said the servant.

I remember now hearing of it, and I
left instructions that he was to put his
business with me in writing. "

** He paid no attention to that, sir, but
kept on calling."

Well, we must get rid of him somehow.
A stone-mason, eh ? Parkinson — the very
name for a stone-mason. My boy Dick
carried his election on the working man's
interests. A popular cry ; we are becoming
very Radical. Show Mr. Parkinson up. You
have no objection, Mr. Manners ? "

"None at all."

The servant retired, and returned, ushering

in Mr. Parkinson. Mr. Hollingwortli casta

keen glance at his visitor, and saw that he

was to all appearance a respectable workingman.



*' You v/ish to see me ? "

.eyes, sir," replied Mr. Parkinson in a

respectful tone, and yet with something of

defiance. He had repaid Mr. Hollingworth's

keen Dance with interest. He was calmer

now than when he had recounted his wrongs

at the meeting of the Wilberforce Club ; but

although he was holding himself in check, he

was quite as much in earnest.

It seems that a personal interview was
imperative."

'' It was, sir."

"Well, I am not disinclined to listen to
you. Anything respecting politics ? My
son, Mr. Richard Hollingworth, has lately
been returned to Parliament in the interests
of the working man, as I dare say you know."

*eyes, sir, I know it. That is how I

found you out, though I expected to see an
older gentleman than you."

Mr. Hollingworth smiled. " You may do
that in the course of years if I live. Your
expectation is an inexplicable one, however,
and as strange as your expression that you
have found me out. Almost a crime," he
continued, still with a smile on his face, 'sto
be found out in these days. You have come,
then, upon political business ? "

'' No, sir ; I have come upon private
business." *

'' Upon private business ! A singular
time to introduce it. As insular as the
question. What private business can there
be between you and me, who are perfect
strangers to each other ? "

There is private business between us,
sir, of a vital nature. You will understand
if you will listen to me, as you said you
would."

'' Will you be long ? "

I will try not to be, but there s a tale
to tell."

"Tell it, my friend, as briefly as you can.
AVill you wait ? " he asked, turning to his
guest, " or shall we resume our conversation
tomorrow ? "

"I will wait," replied Mr. Manners,
unless you wish to hear this person in
private."

'*I have no such wish."

I think it will be better, sir," said Mr.
Parkinson, " that we shall speak without
witnesses."

*let me be the judge of that," said Mr.
Hollingworth, warmly. "You have chosen
to intrude upon me at an untimely hour,
and if you have anything to say of which
you are ashamed, you have only yourself to
blame for the publicity."

The shame's on your side, not on mine,"
retorted Mr. Parkinson, speaking as warmly

as Mr. Holding worth had done, *' and the
blame rests with you and yours."

Mr. Hollingworth's hand, at this retort,
was extended towards the bell, and but for
the last two words uttered by his visitor
he would have ordered him to the door.
He sank back in his chair, and with some
sternness desired Mr. Parkinson to proceed.

*' I am, as you may see, sir, a workingman,
and have been so all my life. I live
Whitechapel way, and this is my full name
and address." He placed an envelope on the
table. *'I am a widower with one child, a
daughter, just eighteen years of age. My
wife died eight years ago, and I brought up
my girl as well as I could. She is good-looking,
worse luck I and can read and write.
There has never been anything against me ;
I owe no man a penny, and my character
in my line is as good as yours or any
gentleman's in his."

VOL. III. D

"I don't see how all this affects me,"
said Mr. Hollingworth, with an assumption
of weariness. '* Cannot you spare me further
details ? "

I must tell my story my own way,,
sir, and you will soon see how it affects
you.

*' Go on, then, if it must be so."

**If we had been let alone, my girl and
me, there would have been no occasion forme
to be here now ; but we were not let
alone, to live our lives our own way. We
were interfered with by a gentleman."

Come, come, my friend," said Mr.
Hollingworth, "this is a mere clap-trap."

Not a bit of clap-trap about it, sir.
Hard, bitter truth ; that's what it is.
According to the order of things, my girl
would have married one of my sort, one of
her own — there were plenty after her, but
she wouldn't look at 'em — and would have

had her regular ups and downs, and gone
through life respectable."

*'0h," remarked Mr. Holling worth, flippantly,
*' she has spoilt her chance of that ! "

** It's been spoilt for her, sir. When and
where she met this gentleman of hers I've
no means of saying ; she's as close as wax ;
and it is only by a trick — a just trick that
a father has a right to use — that I've come
to some knowledge of things. But I'll tell
my story straight, and won't run ahead
more than I can help. It's months ago how
since my girl run away from me, and left
never a word behind her that I could find
her by."

*' In the name of all that's reasonable,"
exclaimed Mr. Hollingworth, " you have not
come to me to find her for you ? "

'* No, sir ; that's not my business here.
My girl was found and saved by an
angel."

D 2

'' A veritable angel ? " asked Mr, HolliDg-
worth. He was nettled by the tone and
attitude of the man, and was disposed to resent
these signs by a lightness of manner in
his reception of the uninvited confidence that
was being reposed in him.

What do you mean by veritable ? "
demanded Mr. Parkinson ; and quickly himself
answered his own question. " Oh ! I
know ; a kind of mockery of me ! The angel
I mean is a woman with a name which I'll
give you if you like."

'* It's a matter of perfect indifference tome,
my good man."

*' I'll give it you, then. There are not
many like her, and as I come here alone,
unsupported by evidences or witnesses, you
miofht, when I've done, like to find out for
yourself whether I'm speaking the truth.
That would be only fair. The good angel
who found and saved my Mary is Mrs.
Manners, who is something more than loved —

she's worshipped by every one who knows
her."

When Mr. Parkinson uttered the name of
Manners, Mr. Hollingworth started, and
glanced at his visitor ; but the great contractor
made no movement.

Your daughter being found and saved,"
said Mr. Hollingworth, '* there is a pleasant
ending of your story."

*' Not at all, sir. There's been a wrong
done that must be righted ; and before ,we
come to the way of that, there's more to say.
When my girl ran away from her home I
was for a long time fairly mad, and was
ready to strike both him and her dead at my
feet if I had the chance. I was as bitter
against her as against him ; and if I'd known
what I know now, there would have been a
case in the papers, and the boys in the streets
screaming out the news. But I couldn't discover
who the man was ; all that reached
me was through hearsay from one of her girl

companions, who had happened to see her in
the company of a man they called a gentleman.
They didn't know who he was anymore
than I did ; and when I made up my
mind that my girl had been brought to
shame, I swore that she should never darken
my doors again. A good many weeks passed
by, and my feelings against my girl got
harder instead of softer ; and then, sir, the
usual thing happened."

** I understand," said Mr. Hollingworth,
as little of what you mean by ' the usual
thing happened,' as I do of how the story you
are telling can possibly affect me."

*' A little more patience, sir, and it will
be clear to you. The usual thing is, that
the man who wronged my child deserted
her."

Ah ! "

'* She was left pretty well shipwrecked in
this big city of cruelty. Where should she
turn to ? Where do they all turn to in their

thoughts ? To the home they have brought
disgrace upon ; to the father and mother
whose hearts they have broken. But my
girl was afraid to come to me. She had
somehow heard that I had sworn she should
never cross my threshold again ; that I
had sworn to strike her down dead if she ever
came before me assail. So she hid herself

o

and her shame, and fell into a fever, and was
close to the death I had sworn against her.
I knew nothing of it ; the news didn't
reach my ears, but it reached the ears of the
angel woman I spoke of, Mrs. Manners. The
way of it was that, thinking she hadn't many
hours to live, my girl wrote a letter to one
whom she loved and honoured, a girl of her
own age, sweet, and loving, and good, Miss
Hester Manners. * Dear Hester,' my girl
wrote, * come to me, if only for a minute,
and olive me one kind look before I die.
Heaven will reward you for it.' There was
more in the letter that I won't trouble you

with. Miss Hester, as was right and proper,
showed her mother the letter, and her
mother, as was right and proper, said, ' My
dear, / will go and see the poor girl'
Heaven bless her for her merciful act al] the
days of her life ! She is poorer than I an
by a long way, and has had such a battle to
fight as few women have, and has fought it
in a way that no other woman could. I
have been pretty much of a careless, selfish
man, I can see that now ; not through
her telling me of it ; no, sir ; but through
her ways, somehow, that IVe seen so
much of lately. I've been neglectful of
my duty, though I've led an honest life,
which is about the best that can be said
about me, but I'm a different man now
through her, a different and a better man, I
hope, than I've ever been ; and if I could
serve her by suffering any pain that a man
can suffer, I'd do it gladly, and thank the
chance. It was late at night when Miss

Hester gave her the letter from my poor girl,
and her husband wasn't at home, but she
went straight on her errand of mercy, and
remained with my child, nursing and attending
to her till daylight came ; and when she
went away she promised to go again, and
she did, day after day, night after night,
taking her sewing with her, for the minutes
were precious, and bread for her family had
to be earn. This went on, sir, for some time
in secret without me ever knowing it, until
my Mary was snatched from death's door by
this bright angel. Then, sir, Mrs. Manners
began to speak to me of my child ; how she
did it I can't remember, try my hardest ;
there was nothing sudden, no news all at
once that my Mary had been almost dying,
and nursed back to life by her ; she softened
my heart gradually in a cunning and beautiful
way, bringing Miss Hester with her to
my rooms, and making me feel, as the dear
young lady moved about, doing this and that

for me, how happy I might be once more if
I could see my child doing as she was doing.
Mrs. Manners' heart is not only a heart of
love and mercy, it is a heart of wisdom, and
when she had well prepared me, and had
led up to it so that I couldn't have refused
to do the hardest task she set me, then, sir,
it was that she told me all that had happened
to my Mary, and told me, in her loving,
gentle voice, that it was my duty to open my
arms to the child who had been led into
wrong through her own innocence and helplessness,
and perhaps through my own neglect.
She didn't put this last thought into
my mind ; it came there out of my own
sorrow and self-reproach, but it was Mrs.
Manners who planted the seed. I took my
girl home, hoping and believing that everything
would be right, and resolved, too, to do
all I could to make 'em right. But the contrary
has happened, and another disgrace,
that none of us but my Mary knew, is

threatening me now. The companions she
used to associate with won't have anything to
say to her. The poor can be hard, sir, as well
as the rich — I've found that out ; can be hard,
and unjust, and merciless. Perhaps it was
my Mary's own fault. She went away a
merry, chattering magpie, singing, and laughing,
and chirruping like a cricket. She came
back quiet and melancholy, and she moves
about as though she wanted to die. The only
woman friends she has are Miss Hester and
her mother ; she's faithful and loving to them,
but often when they are gone I find her
crying to herself fit to break her heart. Now,
sir, as was natural, I tried to get out of her
the name of the man who has brought this
ruin and shame upon us, but never a word
would she let slip, even to them who proved
themselves better friends to her than I was.
Seeing she was so quiet and shy, I looked
out for letters ; none came, and if she wrote
any she has kept it secret from me. Now,

sir, with the new disgrace threatening us that
only a few days ago came to my knowledge,
I was more determined than ever to find
out the man who must do her justice. I
had never pried into the little box of clothes
she brought home with her, and that she
kept always locked in her bedroom, but I
thought myself justified now ia opening it
unknown to her. It wasn't difficult ; it is a
cheap, common box, and almost any key the
size of the lock would open it. I found no
letters there, but a portrait, with a name at
the back in my girls writing. I went to her
straight, and told her what I had done. ' Is
this the man ? ' I asked her. She said,

Yes,' in a whisper. * Did he give it to
you himself?' I asked. * No,' she answered,

I took it without his knowing, and he
doesn't know now that I've got it.' That
shows the wickedness and artfulness of the
villain — I beg your pardon, sir, for letting
the right word slip."

Why beg my pardon ? " asked Mr. Hole
coldly.

Can't you guess what I'm coming to,
sir i

Indeed I cannot ; and I may add that
up to this point, although I sympathise with
you in your trouble, and wish it were in my
power to relieve you, I have not the remotest
idea why you have inflicted your story upon
me."

Is that true ? "

*^As this is the last time you will have
the opportunity of speaking to me, I forgive
the impertinence. It is quite true."

But you sympathise with me, you
say ? "

'* I have said so. You are yourself aware
that your unhappy story is one which many
poor fathers can relate ; but that does not
render it less detestable. You seem to be
mistaken in me, my friend. You present
yourself here to me, and plainly, although

not in the exact words, you say, * I am a
working man, and therefore an honest man.
You are a gentleman, and therefore a
scoundrel. I credit myself with virtue ; I
credit you with vice. I am a worthy member
of society ; you are an infamous one.' " And
now Mr. Hollingworth spoke with real
dignity: 'you arc absolutely and fatally in
error. The pernicious views you have in
effect expressed are, I am well aware, shared
by many of your class. They are erroneous
views. Among the class I may be supposed
to represent are a number of very worthy
and honest persons who are really earnest in
their desire and endeavours to set right what
is wrong in society. I believe myself to be
one of these persons ; I believe my son to be
another ; and it is you and such as you who
throw obstacles in our way. There is something
too much of this parade of exceptional
virtues on the part of such demagogues as

yourself. Have I made myself clear to
you ? "

Quite clear, sir' replied Mr. Parkinson,
frankly and respectfully. He had listened
with eager attention and interest to Mr.
Holling worth, from whose speech he seemed
to derive satisfaction. " And I am free to
admit that there is some truth in what you
have said."

*' Really ! " exclaimed Mr. Hollingworth,
letting his earnest mood slip from him.
'* Perhaps you are as free to admit that even
onions: the humbler classes such wrong-s are
done as you have come here to descant
upon."

I admit it, sir ; but each wrong must
be treated on its own special ground. Had
a poor man betrayed my child, I should have
gone to him as I now come to you."

'* This is beyond endurance "

''No, sir," interposed Mr. Parkinson, *'do

not summon your servants until you hear
what name is written on the back of the
portrait I found in my poor girl's box'

Let me hear it, then, without any further
beating about the bush."

*sit is that of your son, Mr. Eichard
Hollingworth ! "

Me. HoLLiNGWORTH fell back in his chair,
shocked and horrified, and a panorama of
years of deceit crossed his mind. If what
this man said was true, he had undoubted
justice on his side. If what this man said
was true, the son in whose honour and rectitude
the father had implicitly believed, had
lived a life of treachery, had secretly lived
the infamous life, and had successfully concealed
the knowledge from those who held
him dear.

'when I read the name on the picture,"
said Mr. Parkinson, '' it did not enlighten
me, and as my daughter, after her first
admission, obstinately refused to give me

VOL. III. E

further particulars of her betrayer, I should
have remained in the dark but for one
circumstance. I belong to a working man's
club, the Wilberforce, which is in some
sense a political club, as all such clubs are
more or less. For weeks before my discovery
of the portrait, I had not visited the club,
having no heart to mix in its affairs ; but
it happened that I strolled into the clubroom
on the night the portrait fell into my
hands. Political matters are freely discussed
there, and the effect of every fresh election
is commented upon. The evening papers
contained the result of the election which
has made your son a Member of Parliament,
and then it was that I saw his name in
print. I took counsel with certain friends
upon whose judgment I can rely, and their
advice was that I should come direct to 3''ou.
I have done so, and you will now know
whether I was justified in seeking this interview."


He paused, and it was only after a long
silence that Mr. Hollingworth said :

Quite justified." Mr. Parkinson bent
his head and waited. When Mr. Holdings
spoke again it was in a constrained
voice. ''I should have preferred that your
disclosure should have been made to me
privately."

I wished it, sir," interrupted Mr. Parkinson.


Yes ; I forgot. The fault was mine."
He looked at Mr. Manners, but the contractor's
eyes were averted. Not by word
or motion had he denoted that he had been
an interested listener to what had passed.
Nothing: can be decided in the absence of
my son, and you must not suppose that I
shall condemn him unheard. What reparation
can be made " He could not finish

the sentence ; his agitation was so great that
he scarcely knew what he was saying.

You would not think of offering us

B 2

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS

money," said Mr. Parkinson, in a tone of deep
sternness.

No, no, of course not. And yet but

I can say no more at present. Have you the
portrait with you ? "

*' Yes, I brought it, expecting you to ask
to see it."

He handed it to Mr. Hollingworth,
who, the moment he saw it, gave utterance
to a cry of joyful surprise. It was the
cry of a man who had been suddenly
and unexpectedly released from unendurable
torture.

You are not mistaken ? " he exclaimed.
"This is the picture you found in your
daughter's box ? "

It is," replied Mr. Parkinson, gazing
suspiciously at Mr. Hollingworth. *your
son's name is written on the back."

** I see it, in your daughter's handwriting."
Mr. Parkinson could not understand the
meaning of another strange expression in

Mr. Hollingworth's face as that gentleman
raised his eyes from the picture and partly
turned to the contractor. " You are satisfied
that this is the portrait of the — the gentleman
who has wronged your daughter ? "

'* She told me it was, and I am satisfied."

"You lift a weight from my heart. Mr.
Parkinson, this is not the portrait of my son,
nor of any member of my family."

I'll not take your word for it," cried Mr.
Parkinson, taking, with some roughness, the
picture from Mr. Holling worth. " Tell me,
sir, you," he said, addressing Mr. Manners,
*' whether he speaks the truth."

Before Mr. HoUingworth could prevent
him he thrust the picture into Mr. Manners'
hand, who, gazing upon it, recognised the
likeness of his nephew, Mark Inglefield. Mr.
Manners and Mr. HoUingworth exchanged
meaning glances.

My friend speaks truly," said Mr. Manners,
" and you might have believed him

without appealing to me. This is uot his

son.

'' What infamous plot is here ? " cried Mr.
Parkinson.

None of our making, Mr. Parkinson,"
said Mr. H oiling worth. " With all my heart
I sympathise with you'*

I want none of your sympathy," said Mr.
Parkinson, '^ I want justice, and I will have it.
Whoever this man is, I will drag him into the
light." In his passion he turned from one to
the other with furious looks.

'' You cannot blame the innocent," said
Mr. Hollingworth, pointing to a picture on
the wall. *' That is my son, Mr. Parkinson.
You can trace no resemblance between the
portraits."

No, they are not the same men. What is
the meaning of this mystery ? It shall not
remain a mystery long — I swear it ! "

'' Is there any reason why this interview
should be prolonged ? " said Mr. Hollingworth.

"If you doubt my word, and that of my
friend, you can set your doubt at rest by
looking at the illustrated papers this week,
in which the portrait of my son, a newly-elected
Member of Parliament, will appear.
It would be the height of folly on my part to
attempt to deceive you. I make this promise
to you, Mr. Parkinson. If you prove
the portrait to be that of my son — who is as
dear to me as your daughter is to you — and
if he has done your child wrong, he shall
make her the only reparation in the power of
an honourable man."

'" I hold you to your word, sir," said Mr.
Parkinson, '' and if I have been mistaken, I
ask your pardon. There is, however, something
more for me to say, I am not blind ;
I have watched the faces of you gentlemen,
and I believe you know who this person is.
I may be mistaken in this belief, as I am in
the other, according to you. Will you tell
me if I am right or wrong ? "

Mr. Holling worth made a deprecatory
motion with his hand which the injured
father construed into a refusal. Mr. Manners
was motionless.

Very well, gentlemen," said Mr. Parkinson,
with a gesture, half-despairing, half-scornful,
" I will take your silence for what
it is worth. But listen to me. There appears
to be a double villainy in this affair, and it
shall be brought to light. In my daughter's
belief, the name of the man who betrayed
her is Richard Hollingworth ; and if your
son's name has been so used it has been used
for a vile purpose, and your honour is concerned
as well as my own — if you will excuse
a common working man for speaking of his
honour."

"Nay, nay, Mr. Parkinson," said Mr. Hole
gently, 'surely you will not do mea
further injustice ! "

"It is far from my wish, sir; but it is
natural — perhaps you will admit it — that

words should escape me for which I ought
not to be held strictly accountable. Again I
ask your pardon. You have met me fairly,
and I thank you for it. That is all, I
think."

Good night, Mr. Parkinson," said Mr.
Hollingworth, holding out his hand. " There
are reasons why I should say nothing further
at present. I will make a point of calling
upon you and your daughter, with my son,
if you will permit me. And if I can in anyway
befriend you "

"You can in one way," interrupted Mr.
Parkinson, " and in one way only ; by helping
me unmask this villain and bringing him
to justice. He has ruined my daughters
life, and I will ruin his if it is in my power
ay, I will, though it cost me the last drop
of my blood. Good night, sir."

He turned to go, but stopped at the instance
of Mr. Manners.

One moment," said that gentleman ;

'your visit here is at an end, and mine is
nearly so. Would you have any objection to
waiting for me below for two or three minutes ?
I wish to speak privately with you."

*' Will it serve any good purpose ? " demanded
Mr. Parkinson.

It may," replied Mr. Manners. '' There
are other wrongs than yours."

^' I don't dispute it. But I am concerned
only in my own. Excuse me for speaking
roughly."

'' I excuse you readily, and may perhaps
have cause to be grateful to you. Other
persons whom you honour may also have
cause to be grateful that what you had to
say to this gentleman was said in my presence.
Let this assurance content you, and give me
the favour of your company when you leave
this house."

I'll do so, sir. I seem to be struggling
in a net. A little mystery more or less won't
matter much."

With a rough bow — in which there was
some native grace of manner which well became
him in his grief and perplexity — he left
the room. The two gentlemen, being alone,
waited each for the other to speak ; but the
silence was soon broken.

The man's tale is true," said Mr. boiling
worth ; "of that there can be no doubt.
But I will not rashly commit myself to what
may be an act of injustice. It remains for
your nephew, Mr. Inglefield, to clear himself
from the foul charge. If he cannot do so, he
has played the part of an infamous scoundrel
in the use he has made of my son's name ; it
is conduct which cannot be forgiven. Why,
he might have ruined my lad at the very
outset of his public career ! If you were
in my place, with an only son, upon whom
all your hopes were set — for, although he
has a sister, a girl counts for very little —
would you overlook an act so base ?"

No," replied Mr. Manners. A sharp

pang had passed through him at Mr. Hole
reference to an only son. He
thought of Kingsley, with his bright, ingenuous
face, with his eager voice, and simple,
loving ways, with his clear ideas of duty and
honour. Yes, even duty, which in the years
that were gone, he had accused Kingsley of
forgetting and neglecting, crept into his mind
side by side with honour. A rash act to
marry without a father's consent, against a
father's wishes ; but Kingsley was ever rash
and impulsive, but never in a dishonourable
direction — never ! And the step being taken,
he did not flinch from its consequences. He
had thrown in his hard fortune with the
woman to whom he had pledged his faith,
and had not for one instant wavered in the
course he had believed it was right to follow.
Would his nephew, Mark luglefield, have
stood so unflinchingly firm ; would he have
withstood temptation as Kingsley had done ?

Mentally he surveyed the two men, and a
sound like a groan escaped his lips.

Have I pained you by my decision ? '^
asked Mr. Hollingworth in a solicitous
tone.

'^ No ; it is just. My thoughts were upon
another matter."

The sadness of his voice impressed Mr.
Hollingworth, and he remembered that Mr.
Manners had an only son, whom he had castoff
for disobedience. This remembrance
came to him now with strange significance.
Mr. Parkinson had mentioned the name of
Mrs. Manners, and had described her as an
angel of goodness. Was it possible that some
close relation existed between these two who
bore the same name ?

You had a son," he ventured to say.

"Yes, I had a son," said Mr. Manners,
** who disappointed and disobeyed me."

*' Children have no appreciation of the

sacrifices parents make for them. I am sorry
for you. I should not have spoken of him
but for a reference made by the man who
has just left us."

Yes ; he spoke of a Mrs. Manners. The
name is not a common one, and it maybe

" He broke off here. " Mr. Hole

it is not correct for me to say
that my son disobeyed me, and you must
not suppose that he was guilty of a dishonourable
action. He was incapable of it."

'* Is he living still ? " asked Mr. Holdings
laying his hand sympathisingly on his
guest's shoulder.

*' 1 do not know. I have heard nothing
of him for years. We will not pursue the
subject ; it is too painful, and I am waited
for below. With respect to Mr. Inglefield,
your best course will be to see or write to
him. There need be no disguise. I myself
shall speak to him, and shall mention names
plainly."

I swill write to him to-night ; he must
know at once that his visits here are at an
end, unless he has been maligned."

Mr. Manners found Mr. Parkinson waiting
for him in the street.

'^ I could not stop in the house," he said,
'there is something about it that suffocates

J)

me.

'' I intended to ask you to walk with me
to mine," said Mr. Manners.

I will walk with you, but I refuse to
enter it," rejoined Mr. Parkinson, roughly.
'you are of course a rich man."

Yes, I am rich."

** I am poor, and I will keep my place. It
would be better for all of us if every man
did the same. We can talk in the streets. It
will serve some good purpose, you said. I ask
nothing for myself, mind, nothing but justice."

'' In the sad story you have told," said
Mr. Manners, "you spoke of a woman who
was kind to your daughter."

I did, and what I said of her is true.
She is an angel of goodness, and she saved my
daughter, body and soul. See here, sir. I
am not a church - going man, and I hate
sanctimonious people, but I am not a heathen
either. There's some kind of a power that
made the world and sent us into it for some
purpose. I often wonder what, when I think
of things. And there's a Hereafter, and I'm
glad to know it. I'll tell you why I'm glad.
Because, if that scoundrel that ruined my
daughter escapes his punishment here — and
I'll do my best that he shan't — but if he does
escape it here, he'll meet it there ! That's a
satisfaction to , me, and the thought of it will
make me religious. I'll 2fo to church next
Sunday."

*' My object in speaking to you now," said
Mr. Manners, " is to obtain information of
Mrs. Manners. I gathered from what you
said that she is poor."

"Very poor," said Mr. Parkinson, 'rand

that stands to her credit here, and '11 stand
to her credit in the next world — if there's any
justice there."

In what way does it stand to her
credit?"

Mr. Parker stopped suddenly to look at
Mr. Manners' face, upon which the light of a
street lamp was shining.

You are asking close questions," he said,
** and I'm getting suspicious of people."

You are suspicious of me ? "

Put it as you like. You don't know me,
and never heard of me before to-night, and I
don't suppose you care a brass farthing
whether you ever hear of me again. I never
saw you before to-night, and I don't know
your name even ; so you have the advantage
of me. You're in the light, you see, and I'm
in the dark, and here we are talking together
confidentially, with the difference that you
know what you're talking about, and I don't.
Stop a bit. I see you want to speak ; but I

VOL. III. F

must work off my reel first. I don't care
for interruptions. You've heard me tell my
story ; you've got in your mind my name,
and my girl's name and shame, likewise the
name of the man I'd take by the throat if
he stood before me now and I knew it. Likewise
the name of the angel woman who saved
her, and who'd stand by her — I'll take my
oath on it — if all the rest of the world was
hounding her and throwing mud at her.
Likely as not you're a friend of the scoundrel
that's brought this upon us. I saw something
in your face that makes me sure now
he's not a stranger to you. He was a gentleman,
so called ; you're another. I've only
got your word for it that the talk you're
having with me is for a good purpose. It
may be for a bad one. I've no call to trust
you that I can see. Give me a reason."

'' I find no fault with you for your suspicion
of me. My name is Manners."

'* Oh ! And is the woman I'd die to serve
a connection of yours ? "

"■'^ She may be. It is to ascertain whether
she is that I am questioning you now."

For a good purpose, you said ? "

*' What I said I mean."

'' Let me have another look at you."

Again they stopped, and again Mr. Parkinson's
eyes fixed themselves on Mr. Manners'
face. He was to some extent apparently
satisfied. ^

*' Go ahead," he said.

*' You said," resumed Mr. Manners,
steadily, *That her being poor, very poor,
stands to her credit here, and will stand to
her credit in another world, and I asked in
what way."

'' All right. You've got a clear head on
you. In this way. She's got nothing to
gain by it. What she does is done out of
pure goodness — not only what she's done for

F 2

me and my girl, but what she does for
every one who's in trouble. There isn't a
face that don't light up when she comes by ;
there isn't a lodging, the commonest you can
think of, that isn't brightened when she
opens the door. If she was to die tomorrow
the good Lord forbid that she should ! but
I'm putting it that way to make it plain to
you — if she was to die tomorrow, there'd be
hundreds of us, men, women, and children,
who'd follow her to the grave, and know
that they'd lost a friend that could never be
replaced. There would be no money to pay
for a stone, but she'd have one in our hearts.
God Almighty bless her and hers ! "

The earnest sincerity of the grateful man
shook Mr. Manners to the soul, and for once
in his life his self-control slipped from him.
He recovered himself quickly, but the impression
produced by Mr. Parkinson's swords
remained.

** You speak," he said, " of a woman and
her daughter who have laid you under an
obligation "

"A moment, if you please," interrupted
Mr. Parkinson ; *' I spoke of a lady and her
daughter. Mrs. Manners is a lady ; we all
know that, every one of us, and we've often
wondered how she found her way among
us, and how it is she is almost as poor as

the poorest of us. I object to your calling
her a woman in a tone that means, if it
means anything, that she is no better than
the rest of us. It's clear enough to me that
you look down on us. Well, look down. It
doesn't hurt us, any more than it's to your
credit."

'you are mistaken," said Mr. Manners,
gently; " I do not look down on you. I
was once a working man myself." He sighed
as he made the admission, at the thought
that in those early days when he was
struggling and making his way up the
ladder, he was a happier man than he had
ever been since.

Were you ? " exclaimed Mr. Parkinson,
in wonder. " Let me think a bit. I remember
when I was a boy hearing of a Mr.
Manners, a great contractor, who was once
no better than "a bricklayer, and who had
made himself a millionaire by his cleverness.
It may be that you're the gentleman."

I am he."

I take off my hat to you. I'm not one
of the envious ones. You made your money
fairly, I've heard, and though you drove hard
bargains, you didn't cut down wages."

That is true. I shall be pleased if you
will reckon it to my credit now."

"I'll do that — it's no more than fair.
And the lady I speak of may be a connection
of yours, you say. That's interesting,
though I never thought of linking you. two
together."

She never gave you cause to suspect
it?"

"Never. If she had it would have been
known and talked of. These things get
about, you see."

"What you say makes me think all the
better of her. May I proceed with my
questions ? "

"You may."

Had Mr. Manners been inclined to reflect,

ill his usual spirit, under the peculiar nature
of this conversation, he would have loftily
resented Mr. Parkinson's occupation of the
higher ground ; but in truth there was that
stirrings within him which humbled him : and
it is good to know that it humbled without
mortifying him.

"Are Mrs. Manners and her daughter,"
he asked, '' living alone ? Is she a widow ? "

"No," replied Mr. Parkinson. "She is
married, and lives with her husband."

"Are you acquainted with his Christian
name (

"Yes. It is Kingsley."

A sigh of relief escaped Mr. Manners.
He was not childless, then. It was still in
his power to make reparation, or if not to
make, to offer it. The latter alternative trod
close upon the heels of the new-born impulse
to atone for his harshness ; the reflection
intruded itself that his overtures towards a
reconciliation might be declined. Many

years had passed since there was peace
between him and his son, and during all
those years he had been, figuratively speaking,
rolling in gold. So vast was his fortune that,
living the life he did, he could not spend
one-half of it, and every day of his existence
its colossal proportions grew. To Mark
Inglefield he had made a most liberal allowance,
and Inglefield, cunning and careful of
the future, had occasionally drawn largely
upon the great contractor's generosity. The
requests he made were never refused, the
reasons for them never inquired into. Mr.
Manners had set store upon his wealth before
he discarded his son ; it meant then distinction,
fame, political power, in Which he
would have a share. Kingsley's sense of
riofht, no less than the ingenuousness and
unselfishness of his nature, would have caused
him to lay at his father's feet the honour and
glory which he would assuredly have won
had he been allowed to follow the career

which, in his young manhood, had been
mapped out for him. The rich man's heart
was tortured as the image of Kingsley rose
before him ; the frank, laughing mouth, the
bright eyes, the eager manner, smote him
now with more than the force of actual
blows. Those he could have parried or
returned ; not so the accusing voices from
the past which proclaimed him tyrannical,
ruthless, and unjust. The manner of
Kings] ey's life, as indicated by Mr. Parkinson's
championship of his wife and daughter,
was an added sting to the torture he was
suffering. Kingsley and those with whom
he had, without a murmur, thrown in his lot,
had borne privation and poverty cheerfully,
and had won a place in the esteem and
affections of the poor people around them of
which the liio;hest in the land mio;ht have
been proud. And all this time it had been
in his, the father's, power to have lightened
and brightened their lot without in the

remotest degree feeling the loss ; and all this
time they had lived and laboured without
uttering one word of reproach against him
whose unreasoning, dictatorial conduct had
made their life a life of daily, hourly
struggle ; and all this time they had made
no appeal to him upon whom they had a
just claim, but trod, with courage and resignation,
the thorny paths into which he had
thrust them. Well might he hide his face
in his hands with shame. He thought of
Nansie, and of the surprise he felt when
he first saw her— surprise at her modesty
and gentleness of manner, surprise at the
soft pleading voice, surprise that she was a
lady, fitted to grace any position to which
wealth could raise her ; to grace and adorn
it, and to bring into it qualities of goodness
which would have made her a shining example
amid the follies and frivolities of
fashionable life. What were the grounds
of his anger against her and his son ? That

Kingsley, meeting her, had fallen in love
with her, and had wooed her honourably,
and that she, urged in some degree by youth
and love, and in some degree by Kingsley 's
confident view of the future, had accepted
him and become his wife. How, then, was
Nansie to be blamed ? How had she merited
the lot to which he had condemned her ?
And wherein lay Kingsley's misconduct ?
In that having wooed and won a lady, ho
had held an opinion of his father which
placed Mr. Manners above the sordid considerations
of a sordid age. That surely was
not a crime ; but the father and judge had
viewed it as such, and had meted out a
cruel punishment. Kingsley might have
acted differently ; he might have acted
towards Nansie as Mark Inglefield had
acted towards the working man, whose visit
to Mr. Hollingworth had brought about disclosures
which had led — and perhaps happily
led — to the contemplations in which Mr.

Manners indulged as he stood in the dark
night with Mr. Parkinson. The conversation
between them had been continued, and Mr.
Manners, anxious to obtain as much information
as it was in Mr. Parkinson's power
to impart, had been told of Kingsley's connection
with the Wilberforce Club, and of
the project to make him president in the place
of Mr. Bartholomew. This project Kingsley
himself had relinquished, further experience
of the violent views of his partisans having
convinced him that their methods were not
such as he could approve of. Mr. Parkinson,
being led on by Mr. Manners, dilated at some
length on working men's politics in connection
with Kingsley.

Not so easily led as you would imagine,
sir," observed Mr. Parkinson, referring to
Kingsley's characteristics. '* Sympathising
with all who suffer from unjust and unequal
laws, but staunch in his belief that those
wrongs can only be set right by temperate

means. Mr. Kingsley Manners lias a will
of his own."

The father had already been compelled
to acknowledge that. Strikingly different
as he and his son were in their dispositions,
they resembled each other in one respect ;
having resolved upon what they deemed
rio^ht to do, they walked straight forward,
regardless of consequences. Kingsley had
done this in his relations with Nansie, and
Mr. Manners had done this in his relations
with his son. But Kingsley had sacrificed
everything, his father nothing ; and yet, of
the two, Mr. Manners could not help confessing:
that the lot of the man who had
cheerfully embraced poverty was the higher
and nobler of the two.

And now," said Mr. Parkinson, after
further questions had been asked and
answered, " I've told you all I know about
Mr. and Mrs. Manners and their daughter,

and I should like to know what good it is
going to do me."

I do not follow you," said Mr. Manners.

"You've been so much occupied," explained
Mr. Parkinson, "in the object
you've been driving at, getting all you can
out of me, and telling me precious little to
enlighten me, that maybe you've lost sight
of my story."

'* I acknowledge it," said Mr. Manners.

I told you," proceeded Mr. Parkinson,
when we were in Mr. Hollingworth's house,
that I believed you knew who the man is
who has wronged my child. I say so again.
You do know him. Come, come, sir, I've
played fair with you ; play fair with me."

If the portrait you showed Mr. Holdings
said Mr. Manners, " is that of the
man who has done you this wrong, I do
know him."

"Thank you for that much. I'll trouble

you for his name. I don't want any one
to take my quarrels on himself ; I'm equal
to them, and can carry them through. His
name, sir, if you please."

*' At present I must decline to give it
to you," said Mr. Manners, and would have
proceeded had he not been interrupted
roughly by Mr. Parkinson, who exclaimed :

'that's the thanks I 2:et! I miorht
have known what to expect ! But I'll find
out where you live, and I'll dog you like
your shadow till I come face to face with
him."

There is no cause for you to speak
to me like that. I have told you who I
am, and wished you to come with me to
my house. Mr. Parkinson, you have done
me a great service, and in return I would
give you all the assistance in my power.
But threats and violence will not help you
here. For the present, leave your wrongs
to me ; it is not unlikely I may be able

to render you an infinitely greater service
than you dream of. I ask you to trust
me."

*' For how long ? "

** For a few days."

** Have you influence with the scoundrel
? "

''I have."

A queer smile played about Mr. Parkinson's
lips. *ran infinitely greater service
than I dream of," he said, repeating Mr.
Manners' words. " Of course there's but
one way of setting this thing right, and
then I should lose my daughter. That's
what we have children for — to plague, or
torment, or disgrace us."

Mr. Manners laid his hand gently on

Mr. Parkinson's arm, and said, " We bring:

such punishment upon ourselves often.

Perhaps it is the parents, not the children,

who are chiefly to blame. Good night, Mr.

Parkinson. Here is my card ; if you wish
VOL. III. a

to see me you are welcome at any time.
If you do not come to me I will come
to you. There is one other favour I would
ask of you."

Name it, sir."

Say nothing to Mr. and Mrs. Manners
of what has passed between us to-night ;
regard our interview as private, for a time
at least."

*' All right, sir. It shall be so. Goodnight."


Mr. Manners had not far to go before he
reached his house, but he lingered somewhat
on the road, wrapped in thought.
Had what was passing within him been
revealed to any person long familiar with
him, it would have inspired feelings of
wonder and surprise. In truth, a great
change was taking place in this man's
nature ; he was no longer stern, self-willed,
and arrogant ; he was conscious of a certain
humbleness of spirit, and he yielded to its
influence. His thoughts were chiefly upon
Kingsley and Nansie ; what he had heard
concerning them had touched him nearly ;
it had, as it were, opened a window in

G 2

this soul which had been darkened all his
life. But now and again his thoughts
wandered to Mark Inglefield, and he dwelt
upon the contrast between this man and
his son. Kingsley so impetuous, open-minded,
and frank, Inglefield so cool,
methodical, and wary ; the one wearing his
heart upon his sleeve, the other keeping
strict watch upon it, so that he might not
be tempted to follow its impulses to his
own disadvantage. The links which united
Mr. Manners and Mark Ino^lefield were strong
ones, and had been forged by Mr. Manners
himself. When he discarded his son, and
made up his mind to leave England, perhaps
for ever, he had made certain propositions
to Mark Inglefield which had been eagerly
accepted. Inglefield was to be his companion,
his second son, and was to devote
himself entirely to his patron, to be as it
were at his beck and call, and subservient
and obedient in all things. That the companionship

had been productive of little
pleasure was perhaps as much the fault of
one as of the other. Disappointed in his
dearest wishes, Mr. Manners' principal desire
was to be left to himself, and Mark Ingle-field
humoured him ; careful ever to be
ready when called upon to perform some
duty, never contradicting his patron, never
arguing with him ; a willing, submissive
slave, waiting for his reward in the future.
This reward had been promised him ; he
was to be Mr. Manners' heir. The prospect
was a glowing one, and he revelled
in it, although there were occasions when
a great wave of discontent swept over him.
He was not a young man ; how long would
he have to wait ? Mr. Manners was his
senior by twenty-five years, but his health
was perfect. It was his boast that he had
never had a day's illness in his life, and
his habits were such that there seemed little
probability of his breaking down before he

was a very old man. Luxuriousness of
living had no temptations for him ; plain
fare sufficed for his needs. Mark Inglefield,
on the contrary, was fond of rich food and
rich wines, and he indulged in them ; his
tastes (in which may be included his
vices) were the very reverse of Mr.
Manners', and if he chafed under the restraint
in which he was held he was careful
not to betray himself to his patron. He
took his pleasures in secret, and was not
sparing of them ; and it was a proof that
he was an able and astute man, cunning
in device and richly capable in deceit, that
not a whisper of those doings which would
have been reckoned to his disadvantage
had ever reached Mr. Manners' ear.

Is Mr. Inglefield in his room ? " asked Mr.
Manners of the servant who opened the door.

*' No, sir," was the reply.

Mr. Manners passed up to his own, in
which the gas was lighted, and paced it

slowly in deep thought, with his hands
clasped behind him. The house was the
same he had built during the time he was
resolving upon Kingsley's future and the
position he was to occupy in the world.
He remembered that then he had in view
a lady whom Kingsley was to wed, and
through whom he was to obtain immediate
entry and recognition into the highest
circles of society. All the years that Mr.
Manners had been abroad the magnificent
house had been left in the charge of caretakers,
the owner not caring to let or part
with it. There was another motive. Despite
the apparent irrevocableness of the break
between him and Kingsley, there lurked in
Mr. Manners' mind the latent hope that
something — he knew not what, and had
not the courage to mentally inquire — might
occur which might bring them together
again. He would do nothing to bring this
about, but the possibility existed, and for

awhile was dimly recognised. Gradually it
faded into mere nothingness and was lost
sight of, but by that time Mr. Manners
had become too indifferent to the making
of money to turn his investment to account.
He had left this house with his wife
and Mark Inglefield. He returned with
Mark Inglefield, having buried his wife ina
foreign country. Between her and him no
mention had been made of their son from
the day of the renouncement. On that day
he had said to his wife, ''I will not allow
his name to be uttered in my presence."
He was her master as well as her husband,
and she had grown to fear him. Whether
in the depths of her heart she had preserved
some touch of that most sacred of human
attributes, a mothers love for her only
child, was never known to Mr. Manners.
She obeyed him implicitly in this as in all
other matters, and even on her deathbed
Kingsley's name did not pass her lips. But
now, in the solitude of his room, Mr. Manners

recalled those last minutes on earth of the
woman he had sworn to cherish, and it
came to his gentler self to place a new
meaning on the wistful look in her eyes
as she turned them upon him for the last
time. " She was thinking of Kingsley."
He did not speak the words, but they
could not have been plainer to his sense
had he uttered them aloud.

He went up to his wife's room, the room
in which he had deposited all the mementoes
of her silent life which he had brought
home with him. Her jewels were there, her
desk, and an old trunk which from sentiment
she had preserved from the days of
her maidenhood. In her desk he found
a bunch of keys, and one of these fitted
the trunk, which now lay open before him.
He had never before looked into this
trunk, and he could not have told what
he expected to find there ; but what he saw
now stood witness against him. From the
grave in a foreign land came the accusation.

Nothing of his dead wife's was in the
trunk, nothing that she had worn or that
he had given her. Everything it contained
had belonged to Kingsley. Portraits, schoolbooks,
articles of dress, and many items
insignificant and worthless in themselves,
but deeply precious in their spiritual significance.
Here was the mother's heart portrayed,
here the record of her inner life
and sufferings, to which she had never
given utterance. All the more potent now
in their silent testimony. The proud man
read in these trifles his condemnation. With
a little quivering of his mouth which he
made no effort to control, he closed the
trunk and locked it, and left the room,
treading softly.

In the passage he lingered a few
moments, wrestling with an inward urging
to visit the room which Kingsley used to
occupy, and which was situated on the floor
above. With something of his old masterfulness

he wheeled suddenly round, and
returned to his own apartment. There,
however, the desire manifested itself more
strongly, and yielding to it he soon found
himself in Kingsley's room, which he had
not visited since the day on which ho had
conducted Nansie thither, with the endeavour
to impress upon her the great sacrifice which
she would force Kingsley to make if she did
not herself take steps to separate from him.
Here, again, Mr. Manners was confronted
with accusing testimony, for, from surrounding
evidence, he saw that his wife had been
in the habit of sittings in this room, and
frequently occupying it after their son's
departure. These signs of suppressed suffering,
of anguish borne in silence, could not fail to
impress him ; nor could he fail to be impressed
by the once familiar objects in which
Kingsley took pride. The books, the bed,
the articles of taste and value, the pipes, even
some bits of jewellery — it seemed as if

nothing had been removed or disturbed. Mr.
Manners was both surprised and touched ;
these things were Kingsley's own, and he
might have taken them and converted them
into money, which the father knew had been
sadly needed. '' Kingsley was never mercenary,"
thought Mr. Manners, with a pitiful
smile of mingled pride and humiliation.
The soul of honour and generosity ! "

He returned again to his room, and had
not been in it a minute before he heard
the sound of a step on the stairs. He
threw open the door, and Mark Inglefield
appeared.

'*I hardly knew whether you would be
home so early," said the expectant heir.
Did you leave Mr. Hollingworth well ? "

The object of Mr. Manners' visit to that
gentleman was, of course, known to Mark
Inglefield, who looked upon this day as the
red-letter day of his life. In the event of
Mr. Manners arrano^iner the marriage between

him and Mr. Hollingworth's daughter, all
anxiety for the future was at an end. Mr.
Manners had promised to make at once a
settlement upon him which would place him
above all the chances and caprices of fickle
fortune. For some time past he had found
the ties which bound him to his patron
irksome and disagreeable ; he was hardly his
own master ; and to all the hints he had
thrown out that he might fairly claim to be
placed in a more independent position, Mr.
Manners had replied :

Wait till you are settled."

It was, indeed, this consideration that had
impelled him to urge on the marriage. He
had as little true love for Miss Hollingworth
as the young lady had for him. She plays
no part in this story, but it is necessary to
say that she was a thoroughly worldly young
person, with a full appreciation of the worldly
advantage of marrying the heir of a millionaire.
In their matrimonial views, therefore,

she and Mark Inglefield were on an
equality ; the marriage into which they were
william' to enter was a marriage of convenience,
and they were content to leave the
preliminaries in the hands of their elders.

Mark Inglefield put on an air of anxiety
as he asked Mr. Manners if he had left Mr.
Hollinoworth well. He knew the exact value
of his part in the projected alliance, but he
had represented to Mr. Manners that his
heart was deeply engaged, and he laboured
under the belief that he had succeeded in
throwing dust into his patron's eyes. Mark
Inglefield had a remarkable opinion of his
own capacity and capabilities, and, during
his long relations with Mr. Manners, had
grown extremely confident of himself and
his powers, and somewhat scornful of Mr.
Manners' force of character. The reason
for this was that the two men never came
into collision ; their opinions never clashed.
This might have occurred in the early years

of their association had not Mark Ingle-field
tutored himself into complete subservience
to a will which he had reason
to know was imperious ; but as time wore
on Mr. Manners' interest in the affairs
of life grew weaker, and Mark Inglefield
made the mistake of attributing this indifference
to failing mental power. Hence
the growing scorn of his patron's character,
which, once respected and feared, he now held
in small esteem.

Mr. Holling worth is well in health," said
Mr. Manners.

Mark Inglefield detected nothing significant
in the tone, and was not in the least
disturbed.

*' I hope the interview was satisfactory,"
he said.

'not entirely," replied Mr. Manners.

This did produce some slight discomfiture
in the younger man.

I thought," he remarked, *' that everything

was understood, and that it was a
mere matter of arrangement of practical
details."

I thought so, too," said Mr. Manners.
*' Something else, however, has cropped up,
which needs explanation."

From me ? " inquired Mr. Inglefield.

** From you," said Mr. Manners.

All Mark Inglefield's astuteness came instantly
into play ; no wariness was expressed
in his face, for the reason that he had complete
control over himself, and, on his mettle,
was seldom, if ever, to be taken at a disadvantage.


' I am ready to give any explanation that
may be required," he said, in a tone of modest
assurance. " Perhaps it was hardly to be
expected that an affair of such importance
could be settled without some trifling
hitch."

It was in his mind to say that the
required explanation was nothing that affected

his character, but he was prudent enough to
arrest the words. No one knew better than
himself that this was dangerous ground to
approach. If anything was to be said upon
the point, it must not come from him.

I was not prepared for any hitch," said
Mr. Manners. " When I visited Mr. Holdings
this evening, I believed that everything
would be arranged as you wished."

'' And as you also wished," said Mark
Ingiefield, quickly.

'^ Yes ; although my interest in* the
negotiation was naturally less than yours.
Do not stand, Ingiefield ; what we have
to say to each other will occupy a few
minutes."

Mark Ingiefield, with inward anxiety and
a cheerful exterior, drew a chair to the table
-and sat down.

Do you love the young lady ? " inquired
Mr. Manners.

If I did not," replied Mark Ingiefield,

VOL. III. H

wondering at the strangeness of the question,
should I desire to marry her ? "

"That is scarcely an answer," observed
Mr. Manners.

And now Mark Inglefield suspected that
a battle was impending, and that something
serious was coming.

Certainly I love her," he said. *' Is
there any doubt of it, and is that the
difficulty ? "

That is not the difficulty, but it strikes
me now as singular that love was never
mentioned in the course of the interview."

For the life of him Mark Inglefield could
not help remarking :

I was not aware that you were given
to sentiment."

"Nor am I," retorted Mr. Manners. ''I
have been all my life a practical man, until
lately, when life seems to have been valueless
to me."

I am sorry to hear you say that,"
said Mark Inglefield, with well - simulated
sympathy.

*' The sentimental view of a question,"
continued Mr. Manners, "is a view I have
always ignored. I set my own course, and
rightly or wrongly, have followed it.
Whether it has brought me happiness or not
affects myself only.^'

Pardon me for venturing to differ from
you," said Mark Inglefield, thinking he saw
what might be turned to his advantage ;
"what you decide upon may affect others
as well as yourself."

I am corrected ; it may, and has."

Mark Inglefield inwardly congratulated
himself. Not a suspicion crossed his mind
that he and Mr. Manners, in this contention,
were mentally travelling different roads. He
was thinking only of his own interests ; Mr.
Manners was thinking of Kingsley.

H 2

'^Ma}- I ask," said Mark Inglefield,
"whether Miss Hollingvvorth was present
during your interview with her father ? "

*' She was present at no part of it," replied
Mr. Manners.

Then the difficulty you refer to did not
spring from her.

-at did not."

Nor from you, I hope, sir ? "

"No, nor from me."

'' Surely Mr. Hollingworth raised no
objection ? "

He was not the originator of it."

Mark Insjlefield took heart of ofrace.
Whatever grievance had arisen — and he was
too wary to demand its nature with any
show of indignation ; it might lead to the
idea that he himself was conscious of something
blamable in his conduct ; it was by
far the best to avoid anything that savoured
of heat, and to maintain the attitude he had
always assumed with Mr. Manners — whatever

grievance, then, had arisen must be purely
imaginary, and could be easily explained
away.

'* I await your pleasure," he said, 'rand
am ready, as I have already stated, to give
you any explanation you require."

'' The interview between Mr. Hollingworth
and myself," said Mr. Manners, his eyes
fixed upon Mark Inglefield's face, in which
no trace of discomposure was visible " was
nearly at an end, when a visitor was announced.
It is not my habit to beat aTaout
the bush, Inglefield. The name of this
visitor was Parkinson."

Not a muscle in Mark Inglefield's features
twitched, although he recognised at once the
precipice upon which he was standing.

Parkinson," he repeated, in a tone of
unconcern.

Do you know a man of that name ? "
asked Mr. Manners.

*' Parkinson I Parkinson ! " said Mark

Inglefield, as though searching his memory.
No. I am not acquainted with any man
bearings that name."

*' Nor with any woman ? "

Nor with any woman," replied Mark
Inglefield, coolly.

It is only fair that you should be told
what this man revealed."

"If it affects me, certainly, though I am
completely in the dark. The person was
admitted, then ? "

'* He would not be denied. It appears
that he has called repeatedly at Mr. Holdings
house, with the purpose of seeing
that gentleman, and he refused to go away
now without being satisfied."

As you evidently suppose me to be
implicated in the revelation — I adopt your
own term, sir — he made, I am entitled to
ask whether he is a gentleman."

He is a working man."

Mark Inglefield leant back in his chair

with an air of content, expressing in this
action a consciousness of complete innocence.

I was really beginning to fear," he said,
that a charge had been brought against
me by one whose words would have some
weight."

Mr. Parkinson's words had considerable
weight," said Mr. Manners, ** and the tale he
related was true."

It is not for me to dispute with you,
but I am all curiosity, sir."

'before I recount the shameful story he
related, of which you appear ignorant "

"Of which I am ignorant," interposed
Mark Inglefield.

It is but right," continued Mr. Manners,
ignoring the interruption, *that I should
make reference to a certain understanding
between ourselves. I refer to the promise
I gave you to make you my heir." Mark
Inglefield caught his breath, and his face
grew a shade paler. *this promise, in

effect, as we sit together here to-night, is
already fulfilled. My will is made out to
that end."

Mark Inglefield recovered himself. AVhat
need was there for anxiety ? The blow was
unexpected and crushing, but he would prove
himself a clumsy bungler indeed if he were
unable to parry it.

*' I have never had any uneasiness on that
score, sir," he said. *' Your promised word
was sufficient assurance. The trust, the confidence
you reposed in me cannot be shaken
by false statements."

"It is not for me to say," remarked Mr.
Manners, "at the present juncture, whether
the statements made by Mr. Parkinson are
true or false ; but as they stand they affect
you vitally, so far as worldly circumstances
go. I do not hold myself bound by my promise
if I find I have been deceived in you.
It was given to a man of honour. Prove

yourself so, and you shall not be disappointed,
although some small share of my
wealth may be otherwise bestowed. But
I tell you frankly that I intend, quite
apart from what you may have to say, to
sift this man's story to the bottom, and to
come to the truth of it. You have not lived
with me all these years, Inglefield, without
ivuowino^ that when I announce an intention
I shall carry it out to its end. Mr. Parkinson's
story, and other disclosures of which it
formed the groundwork, have deeply affected
me, and may have a strong bearing upon the
small span of life which is yet left to me.
I am speaking to you openly, because the
occasion demands it. Quite independent of
the wrong of which Mr. Parkinson justly
complains, there are matters of which I
intend to speak to you. Shall we go into
them to-night, or would you prefer to defer
their consideration till the mornings ? "

''To-night, sir, to-night," exclaimed Mark
Inglefield, with an exhibition of great indignation.
" I could not sleep until I have
removed from your mind the unjust suspicions
which have been planted there by a
man who is an utter stranger to me."

Mark Inglefield's assumption of virtuous
indignation would have been supplanted by
a feeling of veritable consternation, had he
been aware of what was passing through the
mind of his patron. Mr. Manners owed it
to himself, and was fully determined, to lay
bare the naked truth of Mr. Parkinson's
story ; but, true or false, it was of small
importance to him, in comparison with the
feelings which had been aroused within him
by the description which Mr. Parkinson had
given of Kingsley and Nansie. He had
promised to make Mark Inglefield his heir,
and if this man succeeded in freeing himself
from the charge which had been laid

against him, the promise should be fulfilled.
But he had not pledged himself to leave
Inglefield the whole of his property. There
was enough and to spare for ample provision
for the son he had discarded, and to
whom now, at the eleventh hour, his heart
was turning. He had never entertained any
strong affection for Inglefield. In the early
days of their association he had endeavoured
to acquire a feeling of sentiment towards
his nephew, in order that the alienation
between himself and Kingsley should be complete
and irrevocable ; but Inglefield was
not gifted with the qualities to win such an
affection. Failing this, he and Mr. Manners
travelled together more as ordinary acquaintances
than warm friends ; and as time wore
on the opportunity of drawing them closer
together was lost.

'ewe will first," said Mr. Manners, 'dispose,
as far as we can, of the wrongs of
which Mr. Parkinson complains. I say as

far as we can, because I wish you to distinctly
understand that I intend myself to investigate
the matter."

*' I understand so, sir," said Mark Ingle-field,
inwardly cursing Mr. Manners for his
obstinacy.

'^ You should be glad that I have resolved
upon this course. Declaring yourself innocent,
as you do, the result should more
completely exonerate you. In which case
Mr. Hollingworth will doubtless adhere to
the alliance which I went to this house* tonight
to complete."

Otherwise he will not ? "

Otherwise he will not," said Mr.
Manners. "Do you wish to hear the words
he uttered with respect to you ? "

It will be best," said Mark Inglefield.

Mr. Parkinson's story being told, he left
"the house, and Mr. Hollingworth and I remained
in conference for a few minutes. It
was then that Mr. Hollingworth said : ' It

remains for your nephew, Mr. Inglefield, to
clear himself from this foul charge. If he
cannot do so, he has played the part of an
infamous scoundrel.' Strong words, Ingle-field."


Yes, sir," said Mr. Inglefield, *' and that
they should be used towards me fills me with
indignation and amazement."

Innocent, your feelings are justifiable,
and you will find Mr. Hollingworth ready to
make amends. In what he said I fully concurred.
I will explain as briefly as possible
the matter of which Mr. Parkinson complains.
He is a working man, living in the east of
London. He has one child, a young woman
named Mary." Mr. Manners paused ; Mark
Snowfield never winced. " This daughter, it
appears," continued Mr. Manners, *has fallen
a victim to the designs of a scoundrel. She
fled from her home at this scoundrel's instigation,
who, wearying of her, deserted her

and left her, ruined and penniless, to die or
pursue her life of shame'*

It is not at all an unusual story," said
Mark Inglefield, apparently listening to the
narrative with great interest, 'but I fail to
see its relation with me."

"Had it not been," continued Mr. Manners,
" for the kindness of a lady who,
according to Mr. Parkinson, is universally
beloved for her goodness of heart, the unhappy
girl, driven to despair, would
probably have committed suicide ; but this
lady "

Lady, sir ? " interrupted Mark Inglefield,
noting with curiosity a certain emphasis of
tenderness which, unconsciously to himself,
Mr. Manners put upon the word.

*^ I said a lady, although she is as poor as
those among whom she lived."

*' Ah," sneered Mark Inglefield, *' a piece
of working man's claptrap, introduced for

the purpose of imposing upon your benevolence.


'*I am not noted for benevolence," said
Mr. Manners, drily; "it would not have
been to my discredit had I been more charitable
m my career."

Mark Inglefield stared at his patron.
This was a new phase in the rich man's
character, and, with his altered demeanour,
for which Inglefield could discover no explicable
reason, boded changes. Still he did not
lose his self-possession.

'* Of every twenty who beg of you," he
said, "nineteen are rank impostors.'^

"Possibly; but that does not affect our
present business. The lady I refer to stepped
in at a critical moment, nursed the poor girl
and brought her to reason, and finally succeeded
in reconciling her father with her,
who received her again in his home."

'' Ah ! " thought Mark luglefield, '* Mary is
at home, then. I shall know where to find

her*' Aloud he said : " Why do you pause,
sir ? "

*' I supposed you were about to speak,"
replied Mr. Manners.

No. I was only thinking that this
Mr. Parkinson was not a bad sort of
fellow."

Because of his reconcilement with his
only child' asked Mr. Manners, '^ who not
only offended but disgraced him ? "

** Yes, because of that," said Mark Ingle-field.


'* It speaks well for him ? "

"Yes." Almost upon the utterance of the
word there came to Mark Inglefield the recollection
of the estrangement between Mr.
Manners and his only child ; and now
there occurred to him that behind this story
of Mary Parkinson there lay something which
might be of almost equal consequence to his
prospects. All the cunning forces of his
nature took array within him, and stood on

VOL. III.

the alert for the protection of their wily
master. The affair was besjinninoj to assume
a more serious aspect. Well, he was prepared
to battle with it.

I am pleased to hear your opinion, Ingle-field,"
said Mr. Manners; "it coincides with
mine." ("I was right," thought Inglefield.)
*' The daughter, however," pursued Mr. Manners,
" again in her home, was most unhappy,
from a cause which her father had not suspected.
He set a watch upon her, to discover
the cause of her unhappiness, and soon found
that he was threatened by another disgrace.
Maddened by this discovery, he questioned
his daughter, and pressed her to give him
the name of her betrayer. She refused."
(•' Good girl ! " thought Mark Inglefield ;
'^ staunch girl ! I am safe") " Mr. Parkinson
was not the kind of man, with this
additional disgrace hanging over him, to
rest contented with the refusal, and he
adopted the extreme measure of breaking

open his daughter's box, in which he found

the portrait of a man, a stranger to him.

On the back of this portrait a name was

written." (Mark Inglefield smiled placidly.

*' I never gave her a portrait of myself," he

thought, " thrush she beo^o^ed often for one.

Nor has she a scrap of my writing to bring

against me. You were ever prudent, Mark.

You will get over this difficulty, have no

fear") Mr. Manners had observed the placid

smile, but he made no comment on it. " It

happened that the name written on the back

of the picture has just been brought into

prominence, and with this double clue in his

possession, Mr. Parkinson sought, and after

some difficulty obtained, an interview with

Mr. Hollingworth, in which he told the story

I have narrated to you. Are you curious to

learn the reason of his desire to speak with

Mr. HollinQ;worth ? "

"It would be strange," said Mark Insolent

"if I were not interested in anything

I 2

concerning a family with which I hope to be
soon connected by marriage."

Mr. Parkinson accused Mr. Holdings
son, Richard, who has just won his
election, of being Mary Parkinson's betrayer.
Shocked at the charge, Mr. HoUinixworth demanded
some better proof than Mr. Parkinson's
bare word, and the wronged father produced
it. He handed the portrait he had found
in his daughter's box to Mr. Hollingworth, and
stated how it had come into his possession.
The name written on the back of the photograph
was Eichard Hollingworth."

*' In whose writing?" asked Mark Incjle-

O CD

field.

In Mary Parkinson's. But the portrait
was not that of Eichard HoUino: worth."

*' Whose then, sir ?"

'* Yours."

Mark Inglefield started, and could have
lashed himself for this exhibition of surprise.


*•' Surely," he said, '' upon such evidence
you do not accuse me ? "

** I accuse no one. I must not forget to
inform you that when Mr. Parkinson found
the portrait he forced from his daughter the
confession that it was that of her betrayer,
who had the audacity and the infamy to
present himself to her under the guise of a
friend. Mr. Richard Hollingworth was your
friend. Inglefield, I have purposely used
these two strong words ' infamy ' and ' audacity.'
Do you agree with me that such
conduct on the part of any man was audacious
and infamous ? "

I agree with you entirely," replied Mark
Inglefield, who, although he felt as if he
was being caught in a trap, still spoke in a
calm voice, and was busily casting about for
ways and means to get out of it. '' But I
repeat, you would surely not accuse — nay,
not only accuse, but convict me upon such
evidence ? "

I have already told you that I accuse no
one ; still less would I convict without absolute
proof. Very little more remains to be
told of this shameful story. Mr. Holdings
upon seeing the portrait, indignantly
defended his son, whose prospects of a public,
honourable career would have been blasted
had he been dragged into the courts, charged
with a crime so vile, and he made the promise
to Mr. Parkinson that if it should be proved
that Richard Hollingworth was the betrayer,
the young gentleman should make the girl the
only reparation in the power of an honourable
man."

Marry her ? "

That was his undoubted meaning."

It was a convenient promise," said Mark
Inglefield, with easy assurance. "Had the
portrait been that of his son he would not
have made it. Mr. Hollingworth is a man of
the world."

"There is no need for us to discuss that

point. Your remark does you no credit,
Inglefield."

*'' It was founded, sir'' said Mark Inglefield,
in a tone of respectful deference, *' upon a
knowledge of Mr. Holling worth's character."

Mr. Hollingworth would not thank you
for that."

'* Possibly not. Still I speak as a man of
the world, as you know me to be, and as you
are yourself. A man's experience must count
in such matters. Is your story ended, sir ? "

Very nearly. When I left Mr. Holdings
he expressed the intention of writing to
you to-night, to the effect that your visits to
his house must cease until you have cleared
yourself. You will receive his letter in the
morning. Mr. Parkinson also said something
with which you should be made acquainted.
He said you had ruined his daughter s life,
and he made the solemn declaration that he
would ruin yours if it cost him the last drop
of his blood."

*' He knows my name, then ? "

He does not. Neither Mr. Hollingworth
nor I enlightened him."

*that was only fair to me, sir. My good
reputation is as dear to me as any man's. All
the time you have known me there has been
nothing dishonourable laid to my charge."

I know of nothing, Inglefield ; but then
our courses have lain somewhat apart.
There should certainly, in our relations, have
been a closer confidence. However, all that
is past, and it is not given to us to recall
our actions. Now that we are speaking
together, openly and frankly, there must be
no reservations. I have plainly indicated to
you the course I have resolved upon with
respect to the story of Mary Parkinson. I
have pledged myself to assist him in obtaining
justice, and you know that I shall
keep my word. Let me tell you that there
appears to be something strange in your
attitude on this question."

*' What do you expect of me ? I can
afford to treat with quiet scorn the accusation
which you seem to favour against
me.

'you are still on the wrong tack — a surprise
to me in a man of so much intelligence.
I expected from you something more than
general statements."

If you would put direct questions tome,"
said Mark Inglefield, who all this time
was in serious mental debate with himself,
I should cease from unconsciously offending
you. I owe you much, sir, and all my future
prospects depend upon you. Recognising and
acknowledging this, it would be the height
of folly in me to disappoint you in any way ;
but I repeat, I am in the dark as to what you
expect from me."

*you would prefer that I should ask
straight questions ? "

It is my wish."

*' I will do so. You are now acquainted

with the disgraceful story which has caused
both Mr. Hollingvvorth and myself to assume
an attitude towards you for which we shall
fully atone if we are satisfied there are no
grounds for it. You do not know any
person, male or female, bearing the name of
Parkinson ? "

'' I do not"

*'Do you deny that you are, directly or
indirectly, connected with the wrong of which
Mr. Parkinson complains ? "

*' I deny it emphatically." Mark Ingle-field
said it boldly, and met Mr. Manners'
gaze unflinchingly.

That is plain speaking," said Mr. Manners.
'you must pardon me if I widen the
matter a little. It is far from my wish to
pry into your private concerns, but to some
extent they affect me."

You have every right to inquire into
them," said Mark Inglefield ; and now that
he was launched on a full tide of deceit and

treachery, determined to override every
obstacle and to overcome every danger, there
was nothing in his voice or manner to which
the most suspicious person could take exception.
" Every action in my life is open for
your inspection."

*' The man who has wronged Mr. Parkinson's
daughter presented himself to her under
a false name. She may have done the same
to him."

*' I understand what you mean, sir," said
Mark Inglefield, not giving Mr. Manners lime
to finish, '^ and I declare, upon my honour
as a gentleman, that there lives not a woman
in the world who can complain of wrong at
my hands. Is that sufficiently comprehensive,
sir ? "

So far as Mary Parkinson is concerned,"
replied Mr. Manners, "it covers the whole
ground, although it does not clear up the
mystery."

What is it that remains to be cleared ?

Is not my word of honour as a gentleman of
more \veii]^lit than the false statements of a
shallow, ignorant woman ? "

'* You are speaking with unnecessary-heat,"
said Mr. Manners, calmly. "In a
few hours, by a very simple process, the
matter can be settled. To-morrow mornings
you will accompany me to Mr. Parkinson's
home — I have the address — and there, face to
face with him and his daughter, you will be
able in a moment to convince them how you
have been maligned."

Surely, sir," remonstrated Mark Ingle-field,
to whom this proposal brought a feeling
of consternation, " you do not really mean to
drag both yourself and me personally into
this disgraceful affair ? "

*' What can you find to object to in it ? "
asked Mr. Manners. " I have pledged myself
to sift the matter to the bottom, and I
am not the man to depart from my word.
The course I propose is an honourable course,

and the result must be your complete vindication.
At the present moment you are
under suspicion ; you cannot wish to remain
so. Of course, Ingiefield, I cannot compel
you to accompany me. If you refuse "

Mr. Manners paused, but the uncompleted
sentence was sufficiently comprehensive.
Thus driven, there was no alternative before
Mark Ingiefield than to cry with great
warmth :

I do not refuse."

*' You will accompany me ? "

"Yes, sir, willingly, as you attach so
much importance to it."

I attach the most serious importance toit.
We will start at eleven o'clock in the
morning, and will go by train. To drive
there would attract notice, which it is my
desire, for more reasons than one, to avoid.
It is agreed, then ? "

'* Yes, sir, it is agreed."

** There is an aspect of this unfortunate

affair' said Mr. Manners, "which seems not
to have occurred to you."

'what is it, sir?" asked Mark Inglefield,
whose inward perturbation was not lessened
by the continuance of the conversation.

*' Think, Inglefield. I would prefer that
it should come from you, instead of from
me.

*' I can think of nothing," said Mark
Inglefield, speaking now with sincere ingenuousness.
'' So far as I can see, we
have threshed it completely out."

"Take a moment or two to consider. I
am really anxious that it should occur to
you."

Mark Inglefield pondered ; but so entirely
engrossed was he by the main issue — which
now, indeed, he recognised was vital to his
prospects — that there was no room in his
mind for small side issues. He found himself
incapable of wresting his thoughts from
the one grand point — how was he to avoid

this personal meeting with Mary Parkinson
in the presence of her father and Mr.
Manners ?

I can think of nothing," he said, presently.


'then I must remind you," said Mr.
Manners, coldly, 'that Mary Parkinson has
your portrait in her possession."

"True, sir, true," exclaimed Mark Ingle-field.
*' How could it have escaped me ?
And now that you have reminded me, I
believe you said that the girl herself unblushingly
proclaimed that the portrait was
that of her betrayer." He said this glibly ;
a plan was forming in his mind by which
he could avert the threatened danger.

She proclaimed it," responded Mr.
Manners, " so Mr. Parkinson informed me,
but I do not think I said she proclaimed
it unblushingly ; I had no warranty for
saying so."

The expression is mine, and fits thea

'V]

case ; she has trumped up the story, very
likely at the instigation of her accomplice."

If that is so he proves himself a clumsy
scoundrel. Your statements established,
Inglejfield, you must bring this man to
justice. It is a conspiracy to ruin you,
therefore a criminal offence."

You may depend," said Mark Inglefield,
vivaciously — his plan was formed, and he
was confident of success — " that I shall not
allow this scoundrel to escape me."

We will dismiss the matter for tonight,"
said Mr. Manners ; *' be sure that
you are ready at eleven in the morning.
And now I wish to speak to you upon
another matter."

*' Very well, sir," said Inglefield, and
thought : " What is the old fool going to
brings forward now ? "

^ I TOLD you' said Mr. Manners, 'that
the matter we have left is one vital to
your interests. The matter we are now
approaching is vital to mine."

I am sure, sir," said Inglefield, wondering,
anything I can do to serve you "

The truth will serve me ; nothing less.
How long is it since you saw my son,
Kingsley ? "

A great many years," replied Inglefield,
with a fainting heart.

Here was another unforeseen danger threatening
him, for there was nothing of harshness
or severity in Mr. Manners' voice ; it was,
indeed, gentle and tender.

VOL. III. K

How long since you have heard of
him ? "

*' Nearly as long. I never corresponded
with him, you know. It was enough forme
that he offended and deceived you — you,
the best of men and fathers ! "

Mr. Manners gazed at Mark Inglefield in
surprise. This reference to himself as the
best of men and fathers was new to him,
and from such a quarter quite unexpected.

"I do not deserve your good opinion," he
said ; " I am not the best of men, and have
not been the best of fathers."

Let others judge," murmured Inglefield.

*•' They would condemn me, but not more
strongly than I condemn myself."

Why do you agitate yourself, sir ? "
said Inglefield. "The affair is dead and
buried long ago. You have no cause for
reproach."

"It is because I have true cause for reproach
that I am tortured now. Wrongs

may be buried, but they do not die. They
live to bear after-fruit."

He leant his head upon his hand, and
a thought flashed suddenly into Mark Ingle-field's
mind.

The past has been recalled to you, sir,"
he said, in a tone of false commiseration, " in
some special way."

"Yes, Inglefield."

** Through this Mr. Parkinson?" asked
Inglefield.

"Yes, through him."

Ah," cried Inglefield, " then these men
are acquainted with each other."

"These men?" repeated Mr. Manners,
in inquiry.

Mr. Parkinson and your son," replied
Inglefield, somewhat confused by the
question.

"Yes, they are acquainted with each
other."

'* Then it is your son," exclaimed Ingle

2

field, starting to his feet with a show of
passion which was not entirely simulated,
I have to thank for the vile accusation
which has been brought against me ! It
is him I have to thank for blackening my
character ! And it is by these means that
he, after all these years, endeavours to
supplant me in your respect ! "

Restrain yourself," said Mr. Manners.
'you are doing Kingsley an injustice. With
what has passed between us he has nothing
whatever to do."

'then how comes it, sir'* demanded
Inglefield, speaking still with violence, ** that
this Mr. Parkinson, this sham working man
oh, I know them, sir ; they trade upon
the term, and twist it artfully to their own
advantage — how comes it, I ask, that this
Parkinson visited Mr. Hollins^worth with
this trumped-up story while you were with
that gentleman ? Ashy, the plot is as clear

as daylight I I see it all. The shameless
villains ! "

"Stop, luglefield," said Mr. Manners,
sternly ; " I will not allow you to brand
my son with such an epithet. Recall it."

'' At your bidding, yes, sir. But none
the less am I amazed that you should permit
yourself to be duped by such a barefaced,
superficial trick."

'* How was it possible," asked Mr.
Manners, " that Mr. Parkinson knew that
I was with Mr. HoUingworth when he
called ? "

How was it possible, sir ? There was
no difficulty in ascertaining a fact so simple.
It belongs to the deep-laid plot by which
my enemies hope to ruin me."

Once more I tell you," said Mr.
Manners, ^'that the expectations I have held
out to you shall be fulfilled to your satisfaction,
if you clear yourself of the charge

in relation to Mary Parkinson. Be wise,
Inglefield ; I am not a man to be lightly
trifled with, especially at a time like this,
when you can see I am deeply moved.
Whether Mary Parkinson's story affects you
or not, it is a true story ; there is no room
for doubt ; and the introduction of my son's
name into it was not premeditated."

** What is it you wish of me ? " asked
Inglefield, seating himself sullenly.

Some assistance in recalling what I
learnt from your lips with respect to my
son and his wife."

'well, sir, I am bound to obey you,
though the subject is intensely painful tome.


'* How much more painful must it be
to me when I have heard that which leads
me to doubt the justice of an act which
condemned my son to a life of privation ! "

*what you have heard from Mr. Parkinson
to-night, sir ? "

Yes, from Mr. Parkinson. Inglefield,
I remember that you spoke of the lady who
won Kingsley's love as an artful, designing
woman. If I am exaggerating, correct me."

I certainly said little in her favour,"
replied Mark Inglefield, sullenly and ungraciously.
There could have been no more
unwelcome topic than this, and it was
broached at a time when all his attention and
skill were required to ward off impending ruin.
It proved that he was a man of infinite
resource that two such blows dealt at once
and so unexpectedly, did not completely
confound him.

You must be a great deal more explicit
with me, Inglefield," said Mr. Manners.
"You said nothing in her favour."

*wel], sir, if you will have it so."

Mr. Manners frowned.

** It is not as I would have it ; it is
or is not the truth."

I have no intention of denying it ; " and

here came a cunning stroke. " Consider,
sir. Is it not natural that I should be
to some extent unbalanced by what has
transpired ? "

"Yes, it is natural, Inglefield, and I will
excuse much. But I must have plain answers
to my questions, or I shall ask you nothing
further."

The turn which this conversation had
taken, and the unexpected nature of the
disclosures which Mr. Manners had made,
were indeed surprises for which Mark Ingle-field
could not possibly have been prepared.
He had entered the house in a condition of
mind which may be designated beatific. All
his plans had prospered, and he had expected
to hear from Mr. Manners a thoroughly
satisfactory account of the interview between
his patron and Mr. Hollingworth. The celebration
of the contemplated union with Miss
Hollingworth would have been the crowning
triumph of all his scheming. From the day
when he first instilled into Mr. Manners'

ears the poisoned insinuations which were to
effect the separation of father and son, success
had attended him. Wary, cunning, and
most painstaking in the early years of his
association with Mr. Manners, he believed
that he had so firmly established bis position
that there was no possibility of his being
shaken from it. Gradually he had allowed
himself to be lulled into a state of perfect
security — to such an extent, indeed, that he
no longer took pains to make himself more
than ordinarily agreeable to the man upon
whose word his future prospects depended.
But now, in this startling manner, and at
this unexpected time, the storm he had not
foreseen burst upon him. He did not pause
to consider that the Nemesis which threatened
him was the outcome of his own evil, and
that it sometimes happens that wrong-doers
themselves forge bolts which destroy them.
The idea of anything like justice or Providence
did not occur to him. He was

angry, but his conscience was not disturbed.
His inherent and perfect selfishness led him
straight to one incontrovertible view of the
difficulty in which he found himself. He
had enemies who, nettled and wroth at his
approaching triumph, had suddenly banded
themselves together for the purpose of
trampling him in the dust. It was, therefore,
a battle to the death between him
and them, and recognising that this was the
supreme moment in his career, he determined
to stop at nothing which would avert defeat.
In the heart of this determination there
lurked a ruthlessness of spirit which would
lead him to any extreme of crime and
duplicity. For the unhappy girl whom he
had brought to shame and ruin he felt not
one spark of compassion ; his own safety
was his only consideration. As for Kingsley
and Nansie, if a wish of his could have
destroyed them, it would have been breathed
without compunction.

Between Mr. Manners' last words and his
response there was not a moment's pause.
Swift as lightnings's flash his resolution was
formed.

*' I scarcely know, sir," he said, " how to
convince you that 1 have no other desire than
to satisfy you. I can only repeat what I
have endeavoured already to make clear, that
you shall have plain and honest answers to
everything you ask of me. But for all that,
you must make some allowance for my natural
feelings of surprise and indignation, that
after all these years, I find my integrity
and honour doubted, and matters suddenly
and strangely revived which I thought where
settled long ago."

I will make every reasonable allowance,"
said Mr. Manners. " At present, so far as
you are concerned, I am animated by no
other spirit than that of being strictly just
towards you — even though finding that
through some mischance I have drifted into

error, I shall be compelled to deprive him who
is nearest to my blood of the chief portion
of his patrimony. I am ready to take upon
myself the whole of the blame ; but I must
be satisfied that I have not been wilfully
deceived."

Deceived by whom, sir ? By me ? "
*' By you," replied Mr. Manners, calmly.
You were the first to impart to me information
concerning the lady my son
Kingsley married. Your reports aggravated
the feelings I entertained towards her because
of the disappointment I experienced by my
son marrying without my consent and approval.
No other person spoke to me of
her but yourself, nor did I seek information
elsewhere. You cannot fail to remember the
nature of the charges you brought against
her."

'that is asking me a great deal," said
Inglefield. "Do you expect me to remember
faithfully every trifling detail of circumstances

which I have not thought of for a Ion or
Dumber of years ? "

'* I do not," said Mr. Manners, observing
with displeasure that Mark Inglefield continued
to fence with the most important
issues of the conversation ; " but the
principal of them cannot have escaped your
memory."

^' Being, as it seems to me, upon my

trial " said Inglefield, and paused, for the

purpose of ascertaining whether this statement
was in consonance with Mr. Manners'
intention.

Mr. Manners nodded, and said :

'eyes, Inglefield. You may consider that
to some extent you are upon your trial."

"That being the case, sir, it strikes me
that you have already formed a judgment,
without hearing what I may have to say."

'' I should be sorry to think so. Tell
me in what way you suppose I have done
this."

You speak of the person your sou
married as a lady."

'* Well ? "

That is not how I should describe
her."

'your remark tallies with what you said
against her many years ago. But I shall continue
to speak of her and to regard her as a lady
until I have evidence to the contrary."

*' Have you seen her, then, lately," asked
Inglefield, *' as well as the scoundrel who
has brought these monstrous charges against
me ? "

"You are overtaxing my patience, Ingle-field,"
said Mr. Manners. '' You assert that
you are anxious to satisfy me upon certain
points which I consider vital, and yet you
take advantage of any slight word or remark
which offers the opportunity of evasion. If
this opinion is unpalatable to you, thank
yourself for it. I have seen the lady of
whom we are speaking but once in my life,

and on the occasion she visited me I was
surprised at the impression she produced
upon me. I expected to see a woman whose
appearance would have justified the opinion
I had formed of her through your statements.
I saw, on the contrary, a lady of gentle
manners, a lady of culture and refinement,
who received with dignity and respect the
reproachful w words I addressed to her. She
needed to be accomplished, indeed, in
duplicity and artfulness to have so successfully
simulated the air of modesty and
gentleness which distinguished her."

You are not versed in the ways of such
women, sir," said Inglefield. " They can
deceive the cleverest of men."

P possibly. I am waiting to ascertain
whether I have been so deceived. At
present, everything is in her favour. You
informed me that she was a vulgar, showy
person whose appearance in good society
would bring ridicule upon my son."

'' That is the opinion I formed of her, sir,
from more complete evidence than you are
supplied with."

I understood that you were very well
acquainted with her ; intimately, I think, you
said."

I knew her very well, sir."

*' Intimately ? You told me so at the
time."

Yes, sir, intimately," replied Ingle-field,
inwardly cursing his patron's faithful
memory. •

I am glad to be corroborated ; it shows
that you are speaking frankly. You related
to me a story of the arts she used to entangle
you, of your seeing through them, and
escaping. Is that correct ? "

Yes, sir."

'' As she could not ensnare you, she turned
to Kingsley, and got him into her toils.
Correct me if I am wrong in my memory of
these matters."

VOL. m. L

I cannot say you are wrong, sir, but I
will not pledge myself to the precise words
you are using."

"I do not ask you to do so. So long as
we are agreed upon the general view I shall
be satisfied. For my own part, I may say,
Inglefield, that I am quite certain I am
putting it fairly. Most distinctly did you
call her an adventuress."

Was she not one, sir, in entangling your
son because he had a wealthy father ? "

"If that was her motive, yes, she was an
adventuress ; but it scarcely accords with
the character of an adventuress that she
should be content with making but one
appeal to the man upon whose money she
had designs."

"You have a very positive and decided
manner, sir, from which she might naturally
infer that further attempts would be useless."


** I cannot agree with you. Such a

woman as you described would not so easily
relinquish lier designs. It was all she had
to depend upon. Failing success, a life of
poverty was before her. She certainly would
have tried again."

Surely you would not make me accountable
for her actions, sir ? "

'' No ; I am simply arguing the question
logically — not as regards you, but as regards
her. At the time she made her modest
appeal my judgment was clouded with
passion ; it is now clear, and the course I
took does not commend itself to me. Her
uncle also made an appeal to me — only
one. He had fallen into sudden misfortune ;
on the day before he came to me he had
been burnt out, and was not insured."

*'A trumped-up story, I have no doubt,
sir.

'' Not so. A true story, as I saw in the

papers afterwards. Neither in his manners

was there anything vulgar or objectionable.

L 2

Although a poor man, he was well educated,
and spoke with discretion and intelligence.
Had he appealed to me for a large sum
of money I might have had reasonable
grounds for suspicion ; but all he asked for
was either five or ten pounds, and that
was to send to my son, who was in a
state of poverty abroad. I declare," said
Mr. Manners, rising, and pacing the room
in agitation, '^ now that I am opening my
mind upon these matters, now that I hear
myself speaking of them, I cannot justify
my conduct. It was monstrous, monstrous.
Had I given them a thousand times as
much as they asked for I should not have
missed it. My heart must have been made
of stone ! "

Do not distress yourself, sir," said
Inglefield, with a fawning attempt at
sympathy. 'you could not have acted
otherwise."

*' I could. I could have acted both justly

and mercifully, and so have lightened their
lot. I drove the uncle away from the house,
and he, too, never made another appeal tome.
Their conduct from first to last was
dignified and independent ; mine was dastardly.
You see how little disposed I am
to spare myself. Let us put an end to
this conversation ; I am afraid to trust myself
further."

Mark Inglefield was too discreet to offer
any opposition, and too glad to escape to
put into operation the plans he had formed.
With a gentle ** Good night, sir'* he was
about to leave the room, when Mr. Manners
said :

"Do not forget that we have to inquire
into the treacherous story related to me
by Mr. Parkinson. You will be ready to
accompany me at eleven o'clock in the
morning."

I shall be quite ready," said Mark Ingle-field.
And thus the interview terminated.

Being alone in his room Mark Ingiefield
set to work at once. The first thing he
did was to write a letter, which he addressed
to Mary Parkinson. The purport of this
letter was that difficulties which had stood
in his way were fortunately removed, and
that he was now in a position, or would be
in a very short time, to fulfil the promise he
had made to her. This promise was that
he would marry her. Appearances, he said,
tad been against him, but he would explain
all to her personally. The past had been
sad, the future should be bright. She could
trust him implicitly, and it was a proof of
his anxiety to do what was right that he

asked her to leave her father's house the
moment she received this letter. He was
waiting for her, and would take her away
at once to commence a new and better life.
She must leave the house quietly and secretly,
and no one must know of her movements.
In a little while," he wrote, " when you
are my wife, we will either send for your
father, or you shall go to him and bring
him to the home I shall prepare for you.
Do not delay ; there is not a moment to lose.
I have much to tell you, and I cannot rest
till I see you." Having reached this point
in his letter, he was about to add an instruction
to bring this letter with her from
her father's house ; but he did not write
the words. " It might arouse her suspicions,"
he thought. " She is sure to bring the
letter." He signed himself, " Your faithful
lover and husband," and then paused again,
doubting whether this would be sufficient
without a name. He could not put his own,

for the reason that she was not acquainted
with it. With the boldness of desperation
he wrote the name he had assumed when
he first introduced himself to her, " Richard
Rolling worth," and thought as he did so
what a fool he had been not to have assumed
a name which was entirely false. But he
had not then reckoned with the future, and
had not dreamed that an exposure could
ever occur. It was too late now to repent ;
with all these chances against him he had
little doubt that he would ultimately
triumph.

If he could succeed in conveying this
letter to her to-night all would be well.
Mary Parkinson would only be too glad
to obey him, would only be too glad to
fly into his arms. She had no one else in
the world to depend upon but herself; her
honour, her good name, her future happiness,
were in his hands.

The letter finished, and placed in an

envelope, at the head of which he wrote :
** Read this immediately. R. H.," he looked
through his wardrobe, and selected a suit
of clothes which would in some measure
disguise him. These he put on, and then
enveloped himself in an ulster which would
render the disguise more complete. Carrying
the letter in his hand, he stole stealthily
out of the house, locking the door of his
bedroom, and taking the key with him. He
had provided himself with a latch-key, so
that he could leave and enter the house
without attracting attention.

Safe so far," he muttered, when he
found himself in the dark street. When he
was at a safe distance he hailed a cab, and
was driven to the east of the City, within
a quarter of a mile of Mr. Parkinson's house.
He was too cunning to drive nearer. Paying
the cabman liberally, he strolled away with
apparent carelessness. The next thing to be
done was to convey the letter to Mary

Parkinson without any one but themselves
being the wiser. A difficult undertaking at
such an hour ; he was not even sure of the
house in which Mary lived. It was necessary,
therefore, he decided regretfully, to obtain the
assistance of a stranger. He arrived at
the street in which Mr. Parkinson lived,
and he looked about him. A policeman
passed him, but he dared not seek the aid of
a public officer. The policeman being out of
sight, fortune favoured him. Wretched wayfarers
w4io had no roof to cover them, and
no money to pay for a bed, are not uncommon
in these poor thoroughfares, and
one approached him now and looked into
his face. She was, alas ! a young woman,
scarcely twenty years of age. He accosted
her without hesitation.

*' Do you want to earn half-a-crown ? "
he asked.

She laughed hysterically, and held out
her hand. He put sixpence into it, saying :

The other two shillings if you can tell
me what I want to know."

Eight you are," she said, recklessly ;
fire away."

Are you acquainted with this neighbourhood
? " he said.

What game are you up to ? " she
cried.

'* Never mind my game," he said, " but
answer my questions. Do you know these
streets ? " •

*' Do I know 'em ? Why, I was born in
em !

*' In which one ? "

"In this; and wish I hadn't been."

Never mind that. You know the people
who live in these houses, then ? "

** Know 'em ? By heart ! And they
know me — rather ! Ask any of 'em what
they think of Blooming Bess. "

Can you keep a secret ? "

"Make it worth my while."

Will a crown be worth your while ? "

'' Depends."

You shall have a crown, and if you
hold your tongue, in a fortnight I'll come
and find you and give you another crown.
I suppose you'll be hereabouts."

** Unless I'm in gaol, or dead ! I don't
much care which."

'^ It isn't much of a secret, only don't
talk about it to any one. You know this
street, you say, and everybody in it. Just
walk along with me, and tell me who lives
in the houses."

That's a lot to make a fuss about,"
said the wretched girl, and walked past the
houses in his company, and said, here lives
such and such an one, here lives so-and-so,
here's a dozen of 'em living together, and
so on, and so on. Now and again, to put
her off the scent, Mark Inglefield asked
questions concerning strangers, as to their
trade, families, and other particulars. At

length she came to Mr. Parkinson's house,
and said ,

"Here lives old Parkinson."

*' And who is he ? "

Oh, one of us," replied the girl.

*one of us ! "

Leastways, no better than the others.
No more is his gal. I'm as good as she is,
any day."

His daughter, do you mean ? "

'' Yes. Stuck up, she used to be. JSFot
stuck up now, not a bit of it. That's her
room, on the first floor, with a light in it.
Afraid to go to bed in the dark. A nice
lot she is ! "

Mark Inglefield, having ascertained what
he wanted, marked the number of the house,
and congratulated himself on the lighted
candle. Then he walked to the end of the
street, listening to the account the girl gave
of the residents, and when he came to
the end of it he handed her four-and-sixpence,

and said that was all he wanted to
know.

You're a rum 'un," said the girl. She
had enough to pay for a bit of supper and
a miserable bed. Late as it was, she knew
where to obtain them.

All was silent and dark as Mark Ingle-field
wended his way back to Mr. Parkinson's
house. Making sure that he was alone, he
stepped back and threw a small stone at
the window. Mary Parkinson was awake,
for he had but to throw another before
the sash of the window was raised, and the
girl looked out.

Who's there ? " she asked.

'hush!" said Mark Jnglefield. *' Head
this."

He had the letter ready, with a stone attached
to it, and he threw it skilfully almost
into her hand. The girl retreated into her
room, and Mark Inglefield waited. He had
purposely disguised his voice, fearing that in

the excitement of recognising it, Mary might
have screamed out and alarmed the house.
He had not long to wait. He heard the key-being
softly turned in the street door, and
the next moment Mary Parkinson was by his
side.

^^ Oh, Eichard ! " she cried ; 'ris it you — is
it you ? "

'' Yes," he said, hurriedly. "Don't make
a fool of yourself. No, no, I don't mean
that ; I mean, speak low. You're a good
girl ; you've got your hat on ; now, let us get
out of this. You thought I was going to
leave you in the lurch. See, now, how you
were mistaken in me. I will explain all as
we go. I couldn't help acting as I did. My
whole future and yours, Mary, depended on
it. But everything is right now, and you will
not have any reason to complain of me again.
It did look bad, I admit ; but all your trouble
is over now."

He was hurrying her away as he spoke,

and already they were at some distance from
her father's house.

Oh, Richard, Richard, it is all so
sudden ! " sighed the girl. *' I have been so
unhappy — so unhappy ! "

Yes, yes," he said, interrupting her,
having no desire to encourage her to talk,
but you are happy now, and everything
will be well. You read my letter, didn't
you ? All that I wrote in it is true. Ah,
here's a cab. Get in."

Shall we never part again, Richard ? "
asked Mary, trembling so in the sudden happiness
of this adventure that he had to
support her into the cab.

** Never again, Mary, never again. Never
mistrust me again."

I won't, I won't ! " said the girl, and burst
into a fit of passionate weeping.

Mark Inglefield gave an instruction to the
driver, and they rattled along at a great pace
through the City.

At eleven o'clock punctually the next morning,
Mark Inglefield knocked at the door
of Mr. Manners' study. They were not in
the habit of taking their meals together ;
this was the reason of their not meeting at
the breakfast-table.

Good morning, sir," said Inglefield.

Good morning," said Mr. Manners.

Mark Inglefield was cheerful and composed,
and Mr. Manners, gazing at him, could not
help thinking that he must be mistaken in
suspecting him of wrong-doing.

Shall we start at once, sir ? "

** At once."

*'I have been thinking," said Mark Ingle-vol.

III. M

field, " of what took place last night, and I
almost fear that I laid myself open to misconstruction."


*' In what way ? "

**By my manner. I was nervous and
agitated, and I am afraid I expressed myself
badly. It was not quite unnatural. The
shock of finding myself charged with a crime
so vile was great. Stronger men than I
would have been unnerved. Indeed, sir, I
could bear anything except the loss of your
esteem."

It will soon be put to the proof, Ingle-field."


Yes, sir, and I am truly glad that I shall
be brought face to face with my accusers.
When the poor girl who has been wronged
sees me you will be immediately undeceived.
Let us go, sir."

This," thought Mr. Manners, " is innocence
; I have done Inglefield an injustice."
His manner insensibly softened towards the

schemer who up till now had so successfully
plotted ; but this more lenient mood was
attributable only to his stern sense of justice.
It was this which induced him to say aloud ;
*' Inglefield, you gathered from what I said
last night that it is not unlikely I may take
steps to reconcile myself with my son and
his wife."

If Mark Inglefield had dared he would
have denied that he had gathered any such
impression, but so much now depended upon
his keeping his patron in a good humour
with him that he merely said : '' Yes, sir,"
and waited for further developments.

Should this take place," continued Mr.
Manners, *' we shall both have to confess ourselves
in the wrong. Your mistake may have
been only an error of judgment; mine was much
more serious ; but that is a matter with which
you have nothing to do. If Kingsley is
willing, I should wish you and he to befriends."



M 2

I am ready to do anything," said Ingle-field,
" to please you. But may I venture to
say something ? "

*' Say whatever is in your mind, Ingle-field."


"Nothing, believe me, sir, could be farther
from my desire than that you should find
yourself unable to carry out your wishes.
No effort shall be wanting on my part to
bring happiness to you, quite independent of
any reflection that may be cast upon my
truthfulness and single-mindedness in what
I unhappily was compelled to take part in
many years ago. I waive all selfish considerations.
I feel that I am expressing
myself lamely, but perhaps you understand
me."

Yes, and I appreciate your delicate position.
Go on."

Having, then, made this clear to you,
having as it were consented to have a false
light thrown upon my actions, you cannot

doubt my sincerity when I say that you have
my warmest wishes towards the success of
what you desire. But this is what I wish to
say, and I beg you will not misconstrue me.
The new impressions you received were gained
from this Mr. Parkinson, whom you so unexpectedly
met at Mr. Hollingworth's house
last night."

eyes."

Heaven forbid that I should step between
father and son ! The duty that I once felt
devolved upon me was a most painful one,
but I did it fearlessly, in the hope that the
disclosures it was unhappily in my power to
make might have been the means of assisting
you to the accomplishment of your wishes
with respect to your son. As I did my duty
then, fearless of consequences, so must I doit
now."

Well, Inglefield ? "

**I repeat, sir, that the new impressions
you gained were gained from statements

made by Mr. Parkinson. I have no hesitation
you must pardon me for being so frank —
in declaring him to be a slanderer. I have
no key to the mystery of the plot which, in
the hands of a man lest just than yourself,
would almost surely have been my ruin, and
I should be wanting in respect to myself were
I not indignant at the monstrous charge of
which it seems I stand accused, and of which
I am now going with you to clear myself.
That will be a simple matter, and I will pass
it by. But, sir, if it is proved that Mr.
Parkinson is wrong in my case, if it is proved
that for some purpose of his own, and perhaps
of others, he has invented an abominable
story, and committed himself to abominable
statements, may he not also be wrong in the
statements he has made respecting persons
whom, out of consideration for you, I will
not name ? "

"You refer to my son and his wife," said
Mr. Manners. Inglefield was silent. " I can

cast no blame upon you, Inglefield. I can
only repeat that everything shall be put to
the proof."

With this remark, Inglefield was fain to
be satisfied ; but he inwardly congratulated
himself that he had done something to throw
doubt upon Mr. Parkinson's eulogies of
Kingsley and Nansie.

They did not walk all the way to the
east of London, but, as Mark Inglefield had
done but a few short hours ago, they rode
to within a quarter of a mile of Mr. Parkinson's
residence, to which they then proceeded
on foot. As they drew near they became
aware that the neighbourhood was abnormally
excited. It was past twelve o'clock
when they reached the street in which Mr.
Parkinson resided, and this was the dinner
hour of a great many of the working men
and women roundabout. The majority of
these were standing in groups, talking excitedly
of an event in which it was evident

they were hugely interested. Mark Ingle-field
guessed what it was, but Mr. Manners
had no clue to it. He inquired his way to
Mr. Parkinson's house, and, at the moment
he reached it, was confronted by Mr.
Parkinson himself.

The man was in a violent state of agitation.
His limbs were trembling, his features
were convulsed with passion, and he gazed
upon Mr. Manners without recognising him.

*' I have come," said Mr. Manners, " in
accordance with my promise "

'what promise?" cried Mr. Parkinson.
*' I want my daughter — my daughter 1 "

It is about her I have come," said Mr.
Manners, in great wonder.

'what of her?" cried Mr. Parkinson.
You have come about her ? Well, where
is she — where is she ? But let her be careful,
or I may be tempted to lay her dead at
my feet ! "

I do not understand you. Do you not

remember what you and I said to each other
last night ? I said I would see you righted.
I said I would bring the man whom you
accused."

I remember, I remember," interrupted

Mr. Parkinson, in a voice harsh with passion.

"You made fair promises, as others have

made before you ! But what does it matter

now ? My daughter is gone — gone ! Runaway

in the night, like a thief ! She maybe

in the river. Better for her, a great deal

better for her ! Stop ! Who are you ? " He

advanced to Mark Inglefield, and, laying his

trembling hands upon him, peered into his

face. '' I know you, you black-hearted

scoundrel ! You are the man whose picture

I found in my daughter's box. Give me my

daughter — give me my Mary ! ''

Mark Inglefield shook him off, but with
difficulty, and the man stood glaring at him.
Already a crowd had gathered around them ;
the words, '* black-hearted scoundrel," caused

them to cast angry glances at Mark Ingle-field.
Mr. Manners looked in astonishment
at one and another, utterly unable to comprehend
the situation.

The man is mad," said Mark Inglefield.

"Yes, I am mad," cried Mr. Parkinson,
striving to escape from those who held him
back from springing upon Mark Inglefield,
and therefore dangerous. What ! Is a
man's home to be broken up, is he to be
robbed of his only child, and disgraced,
and is he to stand idly by when the
scoundrel is before him who has worked
this ruin upon him ? As Heaven is my
judge, I will have my revenge ! "

"Come, come," said a working man, "this
violence will do no good, Parkinson. Be
reasonable."

If violence will do no good," retorted
Mr. Parkinson, still struggling, 'what will?"

The truth," replied, the working man
who had interposed.

Ah, yes, the truth," said Mr. Parkinson ;
and when that is told, let us have justice ! "

'* Spoken like a man," murmured some in
the crowd.

*but what kind of justice?" demanded
Mr. Parkinson. " A cold-blooded law court,
with cold-blooded lawyers arguing this way
and that, while those who have been brought
to ruin and shame sit down with their wasted
lives before them ? No — not that kind of
justice for me ! I will have the life of the
man who has cast this upon me ! And
that " — pointing with furious hand towards
Mark Ing-lefield — *that is the monster I will
have my justice upon, without appeal to
lawyers ! "

I give you my word of honour," said
Mark Inglefield, appealing to those by whom
he was surrounded, and who hemmed him
and Mr. Manners in, determined that they
should not escape, '* I give you my word of
honour that I have not the least idea what

this man means ? I do not know bim, nor
any person belonging to him."

You lie ! " cried Mr. Parkinson.

'*I speak the truth," said Mark Inglefield,
perfectly calm. " This gentleman who has
accompanied me here will testify to it. If I
did not suspect that this man is not accountable
for his words, 1 would not remain
here another moment."

*but you must," said a friend of Mr.
Parkinson ; and, " Yes, you must, you must ! "
proceeded from others in the throng.

*' I will," said Mark Inglefield, " because
I have come here for the express purpose of
unmasking a foul plot "

Eighty put," shouted Mr. Parkinson.
A foul plot — a foul plot I And it shall be
unmasked, and the guilty shall suffer — not
the innocent ! For, after all, mates," — and
now he, in his turn, appealed to the
crowd — '* what blame lies at the door of
a weak, foolish girl, who is led to her ruin

by the lying, plausible words of gentlemen
like these ? "

But here the unreasoning torrent of his
wrath was stemmed by many of his comrades,
who said :

•' None of that, Parkinson. It won't help
you, and it won't help us. The gentleman
speaks fair. He says he has come here to
unmask a foul plot."

"That is my intention, and the intention
of my friend here," said Mark Inglefield,
and as you say, it will not help him or any
of us to be violent and abusive. Why, does
it not stand to reason that we could have
kept away if we had chosen ? Does it not
prove, coming here of our own accord as we
have done, that we are of the same mind
as yourselves ? "

Yes," replied one, struck, as others were,
with this plain reasoning, *' let us hear what
this gentleman has to say."

'' It is not for me," said Mark Inglefield,

who, although he had won the suffrages of
his audience, was not disposed to be too
communicative, *' to pry into any man's
family affairs, but when he makes them
public property and brings false accusations
against the innocent, he is not justified in
grumbling if he is hauled over the coals. My
friend here was compelled last night to listen
to charges which seemed to him to implicate
me in some trouble into which Mr. Parkinson
has fallen."

How do you comedy know his name ? "
inquired a man.

*' He gave it last night to this gentleman,
who communicated it to me. Besides, it has
been mentioned half-a-dozen times by yourselves.
The charges I referred to coming to
my ears, it was arrangedj'.between my friend
and myself that we should present ourselves
here this morning for thejpurpose of confuting
them. I suppose you don't expect anything
fairer than that ? "

"Nothing could be fairer."

I am sorry to learn," continued Mark
Inoflefield, " that this man has been wronged,
and sorry to learn that trouble has come to
him through his daughter. They are both
entire strangers to me. What I ask is that
he bring his daughter forward now to corroborate
my statement that she and I never
saw each other in all our lives."

*but that," said one of Mr. Parkinson's
friends, " is just what he can't do. His
daughter has strangely disappeared in the
night."

Mark Inglefield turned towards Mr.
Manners, with a smile of incredulity on his
lips.

"Our errand here seems to be wasted.
Let me speak to you a moment out of hearing
of these people."

The working men moved aside to allow
the two gentlemen to pass, and when they
were a little apart, Mark Inglefield said :

I hope you are satisfied, sir.'^

'^ So far as you are concerned," replied
Mr. Manners, " I cannot help being. But
there is something still at the bottom of
this that I would give much to get at the
truth of."

Why, sir," said Mark Inglefield, scornfully,
'can you not see that the whole affair
is trumped up ? "

"No, I cannot see that. These men were
not aware that we were coming here this
morning, and even if they were it is not
likely that they would have got up this
excitement for our especial benefit."

Mark Inglefield bit his lip.

I am not quite right, perhaps, in saying
that the whole affair is trumped up, but undoubtedly
it is much exaggerated, and more
importance is being attached to it than it
deserves. You must not mind my saying
that I cannot form the same opinion of Mr.
Parkinson as yourself. It seems to me that

he is desirous of making capital out of his
calamity. I have done all I could, have I
not, to clear myself of the charge ? "

'' I do not see that you could have done

more."

There is nothing more to stop for, then.
Shall we go ? "

"Not yet. You may, if you wish, but
I shall remain to make inquiries."

"I will remain with you, sir, of course
It would not be safe to leave you alone in
such a neighbourhood as this."

It would be quite safe. You forget that
it was in just such neighbourhoods I passed
my young days. I know them better than
you appear to do, Inglefield. The people
we see about us are respectable members of
society — quite as respectable as ourselves. As
to remaining, please yourself. I do not feel
at all out of place in such society."

'nor do I, sir," said Mark Inglefield,
with a frank smile. "It is only my

VOL. HI. N

anxiety for you that made me say what
I did."

*' There is another matter which you seem
to have forgotten. It is in this neighbourhood
that my son and his wife and daughter
live. If I am not mistaken, Mr. Parkinson
wishes to say something to us."

During this colloquy Mr. Parkinson had
calmed himself greatly, and now, followed by
his friends, approached the gentlemen.

I should like to ask you a question or
two," he said, addressing himself to Mark
Inglefield, "if you have no objection."

"Of course I have no objection," said
Mark Inglefield. "I will do whatever I canto
help you ; only come to the point."

"I'll do so, sir. Your visit here, on the
face of it, seems fair and above-board. What
I want to know first is, how it happens that
my daughter had a portrait of yours in her
possession ? "

"My dear sir," replied Mark Inglefield,

blandly, " you are putting a conundrum tome."



^^You don't know how she got hold of
it, sir ? "

I haven't the remotest notion."

'how comes it that, when I taxed her
with it, she confessed that it was the portrait
of the scoundrel who had brought her shame
upon her ? "

At this question all eyes were directed
towards Mark Inglefield. Nothing daunted,
he said :

'that is a question it is impossible forme
to answer. She must, of course, have
had some motive in giving utterance to so
direct a falsehood. My only regret is that
she is not here to tell you herself that weare
complete strangers to each other. Has
your daughter always told you the truth ?
Has she never deceived you ? " Mr. Parkinson
winced ; these questions struck home.
Why, then," continued Mark Inglefield,

N 2

perceiving Lis advantage, *' should she not
have deceived you in this instance ? Perhaps
she wishes to screen the man against whom
you are justly angered ; perhaps she still
has a sneaking fondness for him, and
protects him by throwing the blame upon
a stranger."

I don't dispute," said Mr. Parkinson,
that you may be right. But are you public
property ? "

I fail to understand you."

Are you a public man, sir ? "

Thank Heaven, no. I am a private
gentleman."

"Your portraits are not put in the shop
windows for sale ? "

'' No."

Then what I want to know is," said Mr.
Parkinson, doggedly sticking to his point,
*' how your portrait fell into her hands."

"And that, I repeat," said Mark Inglefield,

impatiently, '^ is exactly what I am unable to
tell you."

*' She couldn't have bought it. She must
have had it given to her by some one."

*well?"

'' Whoever gave it to her must know you,
and you must know him."

A murmur of approval ran through the
throng. Nothing better pleases such an
audience, as was now assembled, than an argument
logically worked out.

That does not follow," disputed Mark
Inglefield, annoyed at Mr. Parkinson's pertinacity,
but seeing no way to avoid it without
incurring the risk of reviving Mr. Manners'
suspicions.

*' That's where the chances are, at all
events," said Mr. Parkinson. '' You see, sir,
that you can't help being dragged into this
bad business."

And if I decline to be drao^s^ed into it ? "

It is what very few men would do, sir.
I should say — and I think most of those
round us will agree with me — that you are
bound to do all you can to assist me in discovering
the scoundrel who would ruin you as
well as me."

Mr. Manners looked straight at Mark
Inglefield. Mr. Parkinson's view tallied with
that which he had expressed to Inglefield in
their interview.

I will do what I can," he said, '' but I
really am at a loss how to take even the first
step."

'* Thank you for saying so much, sir. Weare
all at a loss, but I don't intend to rest
till I discover the scoundrel. You'll not object
to giving me your name and address."

'' What for ? " demanded Mark Inglefield,
wishing that the earth would open and swallow
up his tormentor.

Give it to him," said Mr. Manners,
quietly.

Thus forced to comply, Mark Inglefield,
with a show of alacrity, handed Mr. Parkinson
his card.

*' I am obliged to you, sir," said Mr.
Parkinson.

A possible road of escape presented itself
to Mark Inglefield.

Who saw this portrait ? " he asked.

No one in this neighbourhood," replied
Mr. Parkinson, " that I know of, except me
and my daughter."

'* It may not be my portrait, after all,"
suggested Mark Inglefield.

There isn't a shadow of doubt, sir," said
Mr. Parkinson, '' that it is a picture of you.
I'm ready to swear to it."

It was at this precise moment that there
occurred to Mark Inglefield a contingency
which filled him with apprehension. From
what Mr. Manners had told him, Kingsley's
wife had befriended Mary Parkinson, and
was doubtless in the confidence of the poor

girl. Suppose Mary had shown his portrait
to Nansie, would she have recognised it ? It
was long since he and Nansie had met, and
time had altered his appearance somewhat,
but not sufficiently to disguise his identity.
He did not betray his uneasiness, but a new
feature was now introduced that caused him
to turn hot and cold. This was the unwelcome
and unexpected appearance of
Blooming Bess upon the scene.

The wretched girl did not come alone. A
woman dragged her forward.

'* Here you are, Mr. Parkinson," said the
woman. " Blooming Bess can tell you
something about Mary's disappearance last
night."

'*I am ruined," thought Mark Inglefield,
and hoped that Blooming Bess would not recognise
him. There were chances in his favour.
It was night when they met, and he had
taken the precaution to change his clothes
and wrap himself in an ulster. To these
chances he was compelled to trust ; and perhaps
he could keep himself out of the girl's
sight.

What do you know about it ? " asked
Mr. Parkinson in great excitement.

Oh, I don't mind telling," said the girl.
'^ Here, you ! Just let go of me, will you ? "

She released herself from the woman's
grasp.

"Do you want the lot," she asked of Mr.
Parkinson, *from beginning to end ?"

I must know everything," he replied,
everything."

"You must, must you ? Well, that's forme
to say, not you. I could tell you a lot of
lies if I wanted to."

He made a threatening motion towards
her, but was held back by his mates. "You'll
only make things worse," they said.

"A precious sight worse," said Blooming
Bess, with a reckless laugh. " Oh, let him
get at me if he likes ! Who cares ? I don't.
But I'll tell him what he wants, never fear.
She's a respectable one, she is ! When I went
to the bad, passed me by as if I was so much

dirt. Wouldn't look at me — wouldn't speak
to me ; holding her frock like this, for
fear I should touch it. And now what is
she, I'd like to know ? Better than me — or
worse ? "

Mr. Parkinson groaned.

*' Groan away ; much good it'll do you.
It won't bring her back ; and if it did, who'd
look at her ? Not me. She's come down,
with all her stuck-up pride. I'm as good asher,
any day of the week ! "

'* Come, come, Bess," said a man in the
crowd, " you're not a bad sort ; let us have
the truth, like a good girl."

'' Oh, yes, I'm a real good 'un now you
want to get something out of me ! But never
mind ; here goes. It was in the middle of
the night, and I didn't have a brass farthing
in my pockets. They turned me out because
I couldn't pay for my bed. It wasn't the
first time, and won't be the last. So out I
goes, and here I am in the middle of this

very street, when a swell comes up to me,
and says, says he : * Do you want to earn
half a bull ? ' I laughs, and holds out my
hand, and he puts sixpence in it, and says,
says he : ' The other two bob when you tell
me what I want to know.' "

Are you making this up out of your
head, Bess ? "

Not me ! not clever enough. Never was
one of the clever ones, or I'd be a jolly sight
better off. Then the swell asks me if I can
tell him the names of the people that lives in
the street, and plump upon that asks me if I
can keep a secret. I thought he was kidding
me, I give you my word, and I says : ' Make it
worth my while.' With that he promises me
five bob, and I walks with him, or he walks
with me — it don't matter which, does it ? —
from one end of the street to the other, and
I tell him everybody that lives in it. ' Who
lives here ? ' says he, and ' Who lives here ? '
says he ; and thinks I, this is a rum game ;

wonder what he's up to ! But it ain't my
business, is it ? My business is to earn five
bob, and earn it easy ; and when I have told
him all he wanted, he gives me four bob and
a bender, and sends me off. What can you
make of all that ? '^

'' Not much," said the man who had taken
her in hand. Mr. Parkinson could not trust
himself to speak, and Mark Inglefield did
not dare. " What time was it when this
occurred ? "

By my gold watch," replied the girl,
with a fine sarcasm, " it was half-past the
middle of the night. Perhaps a minute or two
more. I like to be particular."

And that is all you know ? You can't
tell us anything more ? "

'' Oh, I didn't say that, did I ? All ? Nota
bit of it. Why, the cream's to come. It's
only skim milk you've got as yet."

*' Let's hear the end of it, Bess," said the
man, coaxingly.

"That's the way to speak to me. Be soft,
and you can do what you like with me ; be
hard, and to save your life I wouldn't speak
a word. The end of it was this. The swell
had done with me, and thought I had done
with him. Never more mistaken in his life.
I was born curious, I was ; so thinks I to
myself, ' I'm blowed if I don't see what he's
up to ; ' and when I turned the corner of the
street and he thought I was o-one for o;ood, I
come back, and there I was, you know,
standing: in the dark, out of sio'ht. He walks
back to the middle of the street, and stops
right before this house, and looks up at
Mary's — I beg her pardon, at Miss Parkinson's
window. There's a light burning there,
you know. He's got a letter in his hand,
and what does he do but pick up a stone
and tie them together. Then he picks up
another stone, and throws it at Mary's
window, and it opens and she looks out.
I'm too far off to hear what they say to each

other ; but I suppose lie says, ' Catcli/ as he
throws the letter up, and catch she does.
And would you believe it ? A little while
afterwards down she comes and takes his
arm as natural as life, and off they go together.
1 follow at a distance ; I didn't
want my neck twisted, and he looked
the sort of cove that wouldn't mind doing it,
so I keep at a safe distance, till he calls a
growler, and in they get and drive away.
And that's the end of it."

'* It's a true story," said mr. Parkinson.
*' When I went into her bedroom this morning,
her window was open."

Those who had heard it shattered into
groups, and discussed its various points ;
some suo^o-estino; that it looked as if the
police were mixed up in it ; others favouring
Mark Inglefield's view that Mary Parkinson's
statements to her father were false, from
first to last. Meanwhile Mark Inglefield
and Mr. manners were left to themselves,

the younger man congratulating himself that
he had escaped being seen by Blooming Bess.
His great anxiety now was to get away as
quickly as possible, and, at the risk of
offending Mr. Manners, he would have chosen
the lesser evil, and have made an excuse
for leaving him, had it not been that he
was prevented by Blooming Bess, whose
aimless footsteps had led her straight to
Mark Inglefield, before whom she now stood.
She gazed at him, and he at her. Her look
was bold, saucy, reckless ; his was apprehensive
; but knowing, if she exposed him,
that there was no alternative for him but
to brazen it out, he did not decline the
challenge expressed in her eyes. She said
nothing, however, but slightly turned her
head, and laughed. As she turned she was
accosted by Mr. Parkinson, who had joined
this group.

'did you see the man?" asked Mr.
Parkinson.

Did I see him ! " she exclaimed. ** Yes ;
though it was the middle of the night, and
dark, I saw him as plain as I see you. Why,
I could pick him out among a thousand."

Bat to Mark Inglefield's infinite relief,
she made no movement towards him ; she
merely looked at him again and laughed.

"Describe him," said Mr. Parkinson,
roughly. '^ It may be a laughing matter
to you, but it is not to us."

To us ! " retorted the girl. " What have
these gentlemen got to do with it ? "

We are interested in it'' said Mr.
Manners.

Oh ! are you ? And are you interested
in it too, sir ? " she asked, addressing Mark
Inglefield.

I am," he replied, finding himself compelled
to speak.

That's funny. You're the sort of gentleman,
I should say, that would pay well for

anything that was done for him."

VOL. in.

"I an," said Mark Inglefield, growing
bold ; her words seemed to indicate a desire
to establish a freemasonry between them, of
which neither Mr. Parkinson nor Mr. Manners
could have any suspicion.

"That's a good things to know," said
Blooming Bess, " because, you see, I should
be an important witness — shouldn't I ? "

"Very important," said Mr. Manners,
*sand I would pay well also."

*you would, would you, sir?" She
looked from one man to the other.

Allow me to manage this, sir," said
Mark Inglefield. " It is more to my interest
than yours."

Mr. Manners nodded acquiescence.

I asked you to describe the man," said
Mr. Parkinson.

*' I can do that. He was short and fat,
and his face was covered with hair. Oh, I
can spot him the minute I see him."

Mark Inglefield gave the girl a smile of

encouragement and approval. The description
she had given could not possibly apply
to him. Every fresh danger that threatened
vanished almost as soon as it appeared.

** There seems to be nothing more to stop
for, sir," he said to Mr. Manners ; '' with
respect to this man's daughter, we have learnt
all that we are likely to hear. It occurs tome
that you might prefer to carry out the
second portion of your visit to this neighbourhood
alone."

** You refer to my son," said Mr. Manners.

*' Yes ; and I might be an |^ incumbrance.
Whether justly or not — out of consideration
for you I will not enter into that question —
your son and his wife would not look upon
me with favour if they were to see me suddenly
; and the circumstance of my being in
your company might be misconstrued. I am
willing, sir, that the past should be buried ;
your simple wish that your son and I should

become friends again is sufficient for me. I



will obey you, but a meeting between us
should be led up to ; it will be more agreeable
to both of us. Do you not think so ? "

You are doubtless right, Inglefield," said
Mr. Manners. " I appreciate your delicate
thoughtfulness."

Thank you, sir. There is another reason
why I should leave you now. The story that
girl has told may be true or false. You
must not mind my expressing suspicion of
everything in connection with Mr. Parkinson's
daughter. It is even possible that she
and that girl may be in collusion for some
purpose of their own, and that they have
concocted what we have heard. I have cleared
myself, I hope'*

It would be unjust to deny it' said Mr.
Manners.

"But I shall not allow the matter to end
here," said Mark Inglefield, warmly. " I shall
put it at once in the hands of a detective,
who will, I dare say, be able to ascertain

how far we have been imposed upon. The
sooner the inquiry is opened up the stronger
will be our chances of arriving at the truth.
Do you approve of what I propose ? "

'^ It is the right course," said Mr. Manners.
*' I was about to propose it myself."

I will go then at once. In simple
justice to me, sir, if you see Mr. Holdings
you should tell him how cruelly I
have been suspected."

You shall be set right in his eyes
Inglefield. If I can find time to-day, I will
make a point of paying him a visit."

''My mind is greatly relieved, sir. Good
morning."

Good morning, Inglefield."

Mark Inglefield, without addressing a
word to Mr. Parkinson, went his way. The
conversation between him and Mr. Manners
had been quite private. Before he left the
street he looked to see if Blooming Bess was
still there, but she had disappeared.

He did not proceed to the oflSce of any
detective. Slowly, and in deep thought, he
walked towards the Mansion House ; the
crowds of people hurrying apparently all
ways at once disturbed and annoyed him ; it
was impossible to think calmly in the midst
of such noise and bustle. If ever there
was a time in his life when he needed quiet
and repose to think out the schemes which
were stirring in his cunning mind, that time
was now. The danger was averted for awhile,
but he could not yet regard himself as safe.
He had to reckon with Blooming Bess.

That she had recognised him was certain
as certain as that she had played into his
hands, and put his enemies off the scent.

"I wonder," he thought, *that she did
not ask my name and address. What a misfortune
that she should have presented herself
when I was in the street ! "

He was not aware that the girl of whom
he was thinking was following him stealthily,

and had never for a moment lost sio^lit of
him.

He turned to the left, and reached the
Embankment. It was quieter there. Blooming
Bess followed him. There were few
people about, and he strolled leisurely along,
looking at the river. The principle of evil
was strong within him. He belonged to that
class of men who will hesitate at nothing that
can be done with safety to protect themselves.
He was not bold enough for deeds
of violence ; his nature was sufficiently ruthless,
and he was not troubled with qualms of
conscience ; but his first consideration had
ever been to keep himself on the safe side.
In his methods he was sly, cunning, deceitful,
treacherous ; but physically he was a
coward. He had, however, the greatest confidence
in his resources. *' I shall beat them
all yet," he thought ; and thought, too, what
a stroke of fortune it would be if sudden
death were to overtake those who stood in

his path. He had passed "Waterloo Bridge
when he felt a touch upon his arm. He
looked down and saw Blooming Bess.

Oh," he said, with no outward show of
displeasure.

"Yes," she said, with a smile.

To strangers this simple interchange of
greeting would have been enigmatical, but
these two understood each other, though
socially he stood so high and she so low.

'* Have you been following me ? " he
asked.

"Of course I have," she replied. "Too
good to miss. I'm in luck. I say, you area
gentleman, ain't you — a real swell ? "

"I am a gentleman, I hope," he said,
with perfect sincerity.

I hope so too. You've got plenty of
tin ? "

Very little."

All right. I'll go off to the other

one."

He caught her arm.

'' Don't be a fool ! "

** That's just what I ain't going to he.
"Well, you're a nice one, you are! Not
even, a thanked for standing by you as I
did."

"You will not be content with thanks,"
he said, gloomily.

Not likely. Want something more solid.
Now, didn't I stand by you like a brick ?
Just one word from Blooming Bess, and your
whole box of tricks would have been upset.
But I didn't let on, by so much as a wink.
We took 'em in nicely between us, didn't
we ? ' You're the sort of gentleman,' says
I, 'that would pay well for anything that
was done for him.' 'I am,' says you. I
say, if they'd guessed the game we were
playing there'd have been a rumpus. I want
to know your name, and where you live."

You don't," he retorted. " You want
money."

I want that, too ; but I want your name
and address, and I mean to have it. I won't
use it against you so long as you square
me.

She spoke with so much determination
that he gave her what she demanded.

Mr. Parkinson knows the other one,"
she said ; " and if I don't find you at home
when I want, I'll find him. Have you got
a sovereign about you ? "

Surprised at the moderateness of the
request, he gave her a sovereign.

How's Mary ? " she asked.

The question suggested to him a plan
which offered greater safety than allowing
her to go away with money, and perhaps
drinking herself into dangerous loquacity.

Would you like to see her ? " he asked.

I wouldn't mind," she replied.

Come along with me, then," he said.
I'll take you to her."

Mr. Manners experienced a great sense
of relief when Mark Inglefield had taken his
departure. The presence of that person had
hampered not only his movements, but sis
will. Now that he was alone, he felt himself
absolutely free. He exchanged a few words
with Mr. Parkinson, in which he expressed
again his good intentions towards the distracted
father, and he spoke also to two or
three other of the working men, who, when
he moved away from them, looked after him
with marked favour. It chimed with his
humour not to be known, and he was pleased
that Mr. Parkinson had not made free with
his name. The reminiscences attaching to

him, from a working man's point of view,
would have caused him to be followed and
gazed at with curiosity The name of
Manners was a name to conjure with ; the
great fortune he had made caused him to
be regarded as a king among the class from
which he sprang, and it was to his credit
that he had amassed his wealth fairly, according
to the conditions of things. Perhaps in
the not far-off future these conditions will
be changed, and it will be recognised that
labour has a right to a larger proportion of
its profits than at present falls to its lot.
Meanwhile it may be noted that, despite the
private wrong which lay at the door of Mr.
Manners, and which he was happily stirred
now to set right, despite the fact that in
his business relations he had driven hard
bargains, his public career was one of
which he might be justly proud. Hard as
were the bargains he had driven, he had not
ground his workmen down ; if they did a fair

day's work, they received a fair day's wage ;
he had made no attempt to filch them of their
just due. In contrast with many a hundred
employers of labour, who grind the men and
women they employ down to starvation point,
Mr. Manners stood forth a shining example.
As for his private affairs, they were his, and
his alone, to settle. Whatever changes for
the better may come over society in the
coming years, the purely human aspect of
life will never be altered. There will always
be private wrongs and private injustices ; and
although it is to be hoped that the general
inequalities of mankind may be lessened, the
frailties of our common nature will ever
remain the same.

Mr. Manners strolled slowly through
streets and narrow ways with which, in his
youth, he had been familiar, and he derived
a sad pleasure in renewing his acquaintance
with the aspects of life which characterised
them. He noted the changes which had

taken place. Here, a well-known street had
disappeared ; rows of private dwellings had
been turned into shops ; but for the main
part, things were as they used to be. He
searched for a certain house in which he had
resided as a boy, and, finding it, gazed upon
its old walls as he would have gazed upon
the face of an old friend who had long since
passed out of his life. He recalled himself
as he had been in the past, a brisk, stirring,
hard-working lad, taking pleasure in his work,
eager to get along in the world, keen for
chances of promotion, industriously looking
about for means to improve himself. Between
that time aud the present was a bridge which
memory re-created, and over that bridge he
walked in pensive thought, animated by
tenderer feelings than he had experienced for
many, many years. Once more he felt an
interest in the ways and doings of his fellowmen,
and it seemed to him as if he had long
been living a dead life. The crust of selfishness

in which he had been as it were entombed
was melting away, and even in these
humble thoroughfares the sun was shining
more brightly for him. Such a simple thing
as a geranium blooming in a pot on the
window-sill of his old home, brought an unwonted
moisture to his eyes. He knocked at
the door, conversed with the woman who
opened it, ascertained her position, listened to
what she had to say about her children, wrote
down their names, and left behind him some
small tokens for them from one who once was
as they were now.

You shall hear from me again," he said
to the surprised woman ; and as he left her
he felt new channels of pleasure and sweetness
were opening out to him. He was becoming
human.

When he started with Mark Ino;lefield
from his home in the west of the city, he had
formed no plan as to the means by which he
should approach Kingsley and Nansie ; but

after some time spent in wandering among
the thoroughfares and seeking old landmarks,
he resolved not to present himself to them
until evening. It would be a more favourable
hour for what he purposed to do. Until
then he could profitably employ himself in
ascertaining how they stood in the neighbourhood,
and whether Mr. Parkinson's report
of them was correct. It was three o'clock
in the afternoon before he felt the necessity
of eating:, and then he entered a common
eating - house and sat down to a humble
meaL It was strange how he enjoyed it,
and how agreeable he felt this renewal of
old associations. When he had finished, he
took out his pocket-book and made some
rough calculations. The poverty of the neighbourhood
had impressed itself upon him, and
he thought how much good the expenditure
of money he could well spare would do
for the children who were errowine: into men
and women. He remembered the want of

rational enjoyment he had experienced occasionally
in his boyhood. He had not then
many spare hours ; but there had come
upon him at odd times the need for social
relaxation. There was only one means of
satisfying this need — the public-house — and
that way, as he knew, led to ruin. From
what Mr. Parkinson had told him, Nansie
was untiring in her efforts to ameliorate and
smooth the hard lot of the wretched and
poverty-stricken ; and, poor as she was, had
succeeded in shedding light upon weary
hearts. If, in her position, she could do so
much, how vast was the field before him todo
more !

He made his calculations, and was surprised
to find, when the figures were before
him, that he was richer than he had supposed
himself to be. In former days he was in the
habit of making such calculations ; but for a
long while past he had not troubled himself
about them — a proof how truly valueless his

VOL. III. p

great store of wealth was to him, and how
scanty was the enjoyment he derived from
it. Supposing that Mark Inglefield justified
and cleared himself in this affair of Mary
Parkinson — of which, notwithstanding all
that had transpired, Mr. Manners was not
yet completely satisfied — half of his fortune
should go to the redeeming of his promises
to that person in respect of the expectations
held out to him. The remaining half would
he ample for the carrying out of schemes as
yet unformed, in the execution of which, if
all went well, Kingsley and Nansie would
assist him.

Issuing from the eating-house with a light
step, he proceeded to make his inquiries
respecting his son's family. What he heard
made him even more humble and remorseful.
Every person to whom he spoke had affectionate
words for them ; nothing but good
was spoken of them. They were not only
respected, but beloved.

'^ If you want to know more about them
than I can tell you, sir," said one poor woman
to whom Nansie had been kind, '^ go to Dr.
Perriera."

Receiving Dr. Perriera's address, Mr. Manners
wended thither, and found the worthy
doctor, who was now a man well advanced
in years, in his shop. With Dr. Perriera he
had a long and pregnant interview. In confidence
he told the doctor who he was, and
Dr. Perriera's heart glowed at the better prospect
which seemed to present itself to friends
whom he honoured. Forces which had long
lain dormant in Mr. Manners came into play ;
always a good judge of character, he recognised
that he was conversing with a man of
sterling worth and honour.

'* I have been informed," he said, 'that

you are a doctor of great skill. You would

have succeeded in more flourishing: neighbourhoods

than this."

I preferred to stay here," said Dr.

p 2

Perriera. "' Elsewhere I should not have found
the happiness I have enjoyed among these
poor people."

'* But you would have been rich."

It would have marred my life," was
the simple rejoinder. " You and I are on
equal ground, about the same age, I judge.
We have not many years to live. Of what
use presently will much money be to you and
me ? Men and women grow into false ideas ;
most of those who become rich become slaves.
Gold is their master — a frightful tyrant,
destructive, as it is chiefly used, of all the
teachings of Christianity. But then, Christians
are scarce."

Mr. Manners hinted at his unformed
schemes, and Dr. Perriera was greatly
interested.

What the poor and wretched want," he
said, " is light, first for the body, afterwards
for the soul. Not the light of gin-shops,
which arc poisonously planted by the wealthy

at every convenient corner. Sweep away
the rookeries ; purify the gutters ; commence
at the right end. There are darksome spaces
round about, in which only vice and crime
can grow ; and they are allowed to remain,
defiling and polluting body and soul. There
is a false, convenient theory, that you cannot
make people moral by Act of Parliament.
My dear sir, you can. Cleanliness is next
to godliness ; that is a wiser saying ; and
Governments would be better employed sin
enforcing this than in ninety-nine out of
every hundred of the Acts they waste their
time in discussing."

What do you mean," asked Mr. Manners,
by your remark, commence at the right
end ? "

Commence with the children," replied
Dr. Perriera, " not neglecting meanwhile those
who are grown up. These children presently
will become fathers and mothers, and their
early teaching bears fruit. It is impossible

to train anew firmly-rooted trees, but they
can be gently and wisely treated. With
saplings it is different."

They remained in conversation until
evening fell. Mr. Manners had received
Kingsley's address, and the two men were
standing at the door of the doctor's shop
when an elderly man and a young girl
passed. In the elderly man Mr. Manners
recognised Mr. Lovedayay, Nansie's uncle, who
had once paid him a visit in his grand
mansion. But it was the girl who chiefly
attracted him. Her sweet face, her gentle
bearing, impressed him, but more than all
was he impressed by a likeness which caused
his heart to beat more quickly. It was a
likeness to his son.

Dr. Perriera glanced at Mr. Manners, and
called the girl, who, with her companion,
paused to say a word or two.

Is your mother well ? " asked the
doctor.

*' Quite well, thank you," replied the
girl.

And your father ? '*

*^ Quite well."

*^ How is business, Mr. Lovedayay ? "

** So-so," said the old book-man. "I
can't compete very well with the youngsters.
Their brazen voices beat me."

He said this quite good-humouredly.

"We must make way for the young,"
observed the doctor.

'* Yes, yes ; but the necessity of living is
upon the old as well."

'rare you going home now?"

"Yes," said the girl, answering for her
uncle. " We have been to see the new
shop''

"Whose?"

"Timothy Chance's."

She laughed kindly as she spoke the
name.

See," said Mr. Lovedayay, opening a small

parcel lie held in his band, " we have been
making a purchase there."

What he disclosed to view was half a
cooked fowl. Dr. Perriera appeared to be
greatly interested in this simple food.

'* How much did you pay for it ? "

** One and four."

"That is cheap. A fat fowl, too."

'eyes. The shop is crowded; people are
buying like wildfire. Timothy will make
a fortune."

"He has pretty well made one already.
Sharp fellow, Timothy Chance, and a worthy
fellow, too."

The girl nodded, and Mr. Lovedayay
observed :

"He is just the same as ever. Not a bit
altered. Never forgets old friends, and never
will forget them. That come-mischance waif
is of the right mettle. He is with Nansie
now. We are going to see him. Come
along, Hester.'

*can you guess who that young lady
is ? " asked Dr. Perriera of Mr. Manners.

** I am almost afraid to guess. Tell me."

"Your grandchild. Have you never seen
her before ? "

Never."

*' If I had a daughter," said Dr. Perriera,
*'I should esteem it a great blessing if she
were like Hester Manners. She has all the
virtues of her mother, all the simplicity and
nobility which distinguish her father. She
has been trained in the right school. I regard
it as an honour that I am privileged to call
myself her friend. Do you wish to proceed
at once to your son's poor dwelling ? "

I would prefer to see him alone. This
friend whom my grandchild spoke of is there ;
I will wait awhile."

It will be best, perhaps. My place is at
your service. If it accords with your desire
you can remain here, and I will bring your
son to you."

I thank you," said Mr. Manners, *' and
accept your kind offer."

His heart was stirred by hopes and fears.
It went out to the sweet girl he had seen
for the first time ; she was of his blood ; but
had he any claim to her affection ? How
would her parents receive him — her parents,
to whom she was bound by the strongest
links of love, and whom he had treated so
harshly and unjustly ? There was a time
when he thought he could never bring himself
to forgive the son who had disappointed
his worldly hopes ; but now it was he himself
who needed forgiveness. The happiness of
his brief future depended upon the son he
had wronged ; if Kingsley and Nansie
rejected him, the anguish of a lonely,
loveless life would attend him to his last
hour.

I should advise," said Dr. Perriera, " that
you wait awhile before the interview takes
place. Timothy Chance and your son's
family are much attached to each other, and it

will be an act of delicacy not to immediately
intrude upon them."

An act of delicacy ? " repeated Mr.
Manners, looking at Dr. Perriera for an
explanation.

I have an idea," said the doctor, " that
Timothy Chance has a tender feeling for your
grandchild. Whether it is reciprocated or
not, I cannot say. There is a disparity in
their ages of fourteen or fifteen years, but
that should be no obstacle. I hold that in
married life the man should be some years
older than the woman."

You have hinted that this Timothy
Chance is well-to-do."

He is more than that. He is on the
high road to a fortune. I am curious to
see the shop he has opened. Will you come ?
We have time. On the road I will relate
to you Timothy Chance's story. It is in its
way remarkable."

They started out together, and, with a
heart gloomed by the intrusion of this friend

of his son's family, Mr. Manners listened to
the doctor's narrative. In Kingsley's eyes,
his money had never been deemed of importance
; Kingsley had never stooped or
crinojed before that universal idol. How
much less was he likely to do so now that he
had by his side a friend who could lift him
from the state of poverty to which the hard
lather had condemned him ? Not purse-strings,
but heart-strings, would decide the
issue of his heart's desire.

Up to the point with which we are familiar
there is no need to set down here what Dr.
Pereira imparted to his companion. We will
take up the thread from the time of Timothy
Chance's last appearance upon the scene.

" Timothy has made the best use of his
opportunities," said the doctor. *' From the
small bes^innins^s which I have recounted he
has risen by slow and sure steps to be, I
should say, the largest poultry breeder in
the kingdom. He has farms in half-a-dozen
different places, and it is necessary, of coarse.

that at stated intervals he should get rid of
old stock to make room for new. His contracts
are really important ones, and he turns
over a large amount of money during the
year. Lately an idea occurred to him, which
he is now turning to practical account. Instead
of selling his old stock to hotels and
shopkeepers, he believes it will be more profitable
to speculate in it himself. As a trial,
he has opened a shop in the neighbourhood
here, which I regard as a boon to the people.
He will send so many fowls there every day,
and they will be cooked and disposed of to
those who can afibrd to buy. I think his
idea was inspired by something of a similar
nature which he saw in France. You can
purchase a whole roasted fowl, a half, a wing
and breast, or a leg. The prices are very
moderate, the poultry is of good quality,
the cooking is sure to be excellent, for
Timothy is perfect in all his arrangements.
Here we are at his trial shop."

It was, indeed, a notable establishment,

and, as Hester had said, was crowded
with customers. The predominating features
of the shop were light and cleanliness.
At the rear of the shop were the stoves
at which the fowls were roasted, and these
were cut up, or arranged whole, upon marble
slabs. The attendants were all females, and
wore light print dresses and spotlessly clean
white aprons and caps ; order and system
reigned, and the money was rolling in. It
was an animated scene, made the more agreeable
by the pleasant faces and the civility
which distinguished those who were attending
to the customers.

'rit will do," said Dr. Perriera in a tone of
approval. 'before the year is out, Timothy
will have a score of such shops in poor
localities. He is made of the right stuff;
his future is assured. Let us return now,
and I will bring your son to you."

Mr. Manners sat alone in Dr. Perriera's living-room,
awaiting the arrival of his son. The
last twenty-four hours had been the most
pregnant in his life ; in a few minutes his
fate would be decided ; in a few minutes he
would know whether the years that remained
to him would be brightened by love, or made
desolate by loneliness — loneliness in which
reigned a terror and despair he had never yet
experienced. Hitherto he had been a law
unto himself; hitherto he had born the fate
he had courted with a stern implacable spirit,
bearing with bitter resolve the burden he
had inflicted upon himself. There had been
no resignation in his soul to soften his

sufferings, and he had not sought the consolation
which charity or religion would have
shed upon him. His heart had been as a
sealed box, into which no ray of light had
entered ; all was dark and desolate. He
would soon learn whether this would continue
to be his fate. Some savage comfort had
come to him in the past from the belief
that he was in the right, and Kingsley in
the wrong, but this would be denied to
him now. The thought had occasionally
intruded itself that Kingsley would come to
him as a suppliant, begging for mercy and
forgiveness ; but the positions were reversed ;
it was he, not his son, dio was the suppliant
; it was he, not his sou, who pleaded for
forgiveness.

Each moment seemed prolonged. *' He
refuses to come," thought the repentant man.
I am to my only child as one who is dead.
It is a just punishment." It was in accordance
with his character that he should recognise

the justice of the position in which he
stood.

When he heard footsteps in Dr. Perriera's
shop, he rose to his feet and looked towards
the door as a criminal might, awaiting his
sentence. The door opened, and Kingsley
entered.

His face was radiant ; a tender light shone
in his eyes.

Why, father ! " cried Kingsley, and
opened his arms.

Thank God ! "

He did not speak the words aloud ; they
were spoken by his grateful heart as he
pressed his son to his breast. Then he gently
released himself, and gazed with tearful eyes
upon the son he had turned from his home.

Kingsley was much altered. His hair was
grayer than that of his father ; his face was
worn and thin ; but the tender whimsical
spirit of old dwelt in his eyes.

At the present moment it was only the

VOL. III. Q

sympathetic chords in his nature which found
expression.

*' I knew you would come, father," said
Kingsley, and at the tender utterance of the
word Mr. Manners' heart was stirred by a
new-born joy ; "I always said you would
come to us one day. And Nansie, too ; she
never wavered in her belief that we should see
you. ' The time will be sure to arrive,' she
often said to me, ' when we shall be reunited ;
and when your dear father comes to us, we
have a home for him.' Yes, father, our home
is yours. A poor one, but you will not mind
that. It needs but little for happiness, and
we have been happy, very happy."

Oh, Kingsley," said Mr. Manners, " can
you, can your good wife forgive me ? "

Forgive you, father ! " exclaimed Kingsley,
in a tone of surprise. " For what ? You
have done nothing but what you thought
was right. Indeed, the fault has been on our
side, for not coming to you. It was our duty,

and we neglected it. Father, I do not think
you know Nansie as well as I should wish."

I do not' said the humbled man. *' Oh,
Kingsley, that I should ever have shut you
from my heart ! "

I declare," said Kingsley, putting his
hand fondly on his father's shoulder, ** if
any man but you said as much, I should feel
inclined to quarrel with him. Shut me from
your heart ! I am sure you have never
done that. I am sure you have thought of
us with tenderness, as we have thought of
you. Yes, father, in our prayers you have
always been remembered. And we were
content to wait your will, which was ever wise
and strong. Not like mine — but that is my
loss. A man cannot help being what he is,
and I am afraid that I have been wan tin o^ in
strength." He passed his hand across his
forehead, half sadly, half humorously. ^' But
I am truly thankful that I have had by
my side a helpmate who has strewn my life

Q 2

with flowers. Dear Nansie ! Ever patient,
ever hopeful, with her steadfast eyes fixed
upon the light which you have brought to us
now ! Then, there is our dear daughter, your
grandchild, father — ah, what a blessing
she is to us ! You will love Hester. Beautiful
as her mother was — and is, father — with a
nature as sweet and gentle, and as trustful,
and confiding, and pure."

A sudden weakness overcame him here
and with a little pitiful motion of his arms,
he sank into a chair.

'' Kingsley ! " cried Mr. Manners, alarmed.
*' Kingsley — my dear son ! "

"It is nothing, father," said Kingsley,
looking up, and pressing his father's hand to
his lips. " The shock of happiness is so great!
I scarcely expected it to-night. I was thinking
of Nansie. She will be so grateful — so
grateful ! "

Does she not know ? "

*' She knows nothing of this sweet joy.

Nor did T when Dr. Perriera called me from
the room. I am orlad he told me as we came
along. You will remain with us a little
while ? "

'* We will never part again, Kingsley, if
sou, and Nansie, and Hester will have me."

If we will have you ! Why, father,
how can you ask that ? Nansie will be overjoyed,
and Hester will go wild with delight
and happiness. How often has the dear child
asked : ' When am I going to see grandfather?'
Well, now her desire will be gratified. She
will see you, and will love and honour you,
as we have always done, and we always
shall do. Hush ! Is not that Nansie's voice
I hear?"

It was, indeed, Nansie who was speaking
softly to Dr. Perriera in the shop without.
Anxious about Kingsley, she had slipped on
her hat and mantle, and had followed him.
In a few hurried words the good doctor
had told her all, and she was now standing

in trembling hope to learn the best or
worst.

*kingsley," said Mr. Manners, "if it is
your wife outside, go to her, and ask her if
she will see me. Let her come in alone."

'' As you wish, father. I will remain with
Dr. Perriera while you speak to her."

With a fond look at his father he left the
room, and a moment afterwards Nansie and
Mr. Manners stood face to face. Tearfully
and wistfully she stood before him. Better
than Kingsley did she recognise what this
meetings mio^ht mean to her and her beloved
ones. He held out his hand, and with a
sudden rush of joy she bent her head over
it.

Had any barrier remained standing in the
proud man's heart, this simple action would
have effectually destroyed it. He could
more easily have borne reproachful words,
and was ready to acknowledge them his due,
but this sweet and grateful recognition of a

too tardy justice almost broke him down.
He turned his head humbly aside, and

said :

Can you forgive me, Nansie — my

daughter ? "

'' Father ! " she cried, and fell sobbing in

his arms.

It was a night never to be forgotten. In
his heart of hearts Mr. Manners breathed a
prayer of thankfulness that the flower of
repentance had blossomed for the living,
and not for the dead. Often it blossoms
too late, and then it is a fateful flower, and
leaves a curse, and not a blessing, behind it.

But this night was not only to bear the
sweet fruit of goodness and self-denial ; it was
to bring forth a fitting punishment of a life
of cunning and duplicity.

Linked close together, Mr. Manners and
his children walked to Kingsley's humble
rooms, and there the old man received his
grandchild's kiss. Instinctively he was made

to feel that, through all this long and bitter
separation, no word of complaining had ever
reached Hester's ears. All the brighter in
bis eyes shone the characters of Kingsley and
Nansie, and readily did he acknowledge that
never was nobility more truly shown. The
little room in which they sat was a garden of
love.

Nor was the old book-man forgotten. He
and Mr. Manners, in one firm hand-clasp,
forged a link which even the grave would
not sever.

Timothy Chance was not with them ; he
had other business to see to. What that
business was, and to what it led, will now be
told.

The clock struck nine when a knock was
heard at the door. Hester rose and opened
it, and Dr. Perriera appeared. He looked
round upon the happy group and smiled ;
but when the smile faded they observed an
unwonted gravity in his face.

"What has happened?" asked Nansie,
solicitously. Her sympathetic nature was
ever on the alert to detect signs of trouble in
her friends.

Hester," said Dr. Perriera, ** leave us fora
moment or two. I wish to speak to your
parents alone."

The girl retired to the inner room, and
shut herself in.

It is best to keep it from her ears," said
Dr. Perriera ; he addressed Mr. Manners.
*' You are as much concerned as any here in
the news I have to impart. I was not
present when you and a friend came to the
neighbourhood this mornings to see Mr.
Parkinson, but if I am not mistaken, you
are interested in the misfortune which has
fallen upon him."

"I am deeply interested in it," replied
Mr. Manners, " and have pledged myself
to sift the unhappy matter to the
bottom. But unfortunately the poor girl has
disappeared."

The truth may be made clear this very
night," said Dr. Perriera. " Strange news has
strangely reached me. May I ask if this is
the portrait of the friend who accompanied
you?

He handed to Mr. Manners the portrait of
Mark Inglefield which Mr. Parkinson had

shown to him and Mr. Hoping worth on
the previous night, when he came to seek
redress.

Yes, it is he," said Mr. Manners.

I obtained it from Mr. Parkinson," said
Dr. Perriera, *' and promised that I would
return it."

*' But your reason ? " asked Mr. Manners.

If you will come with me," replied Dr.
Perriera, *' all shall be explained. No, not
you, or you " — Kingsley and Nansie had both
risen, in token of their willingness to assist
him. '* Leave the matter in our hands.
I am at present," he added, glancing at Mr.
Manners, *^ somewhat in the dark, and
perhaps I have small right to inquire into
your motives. What chiefly concerns me, as
taking what I may call a vital interest in
the poor people among whom I have passed
my life, is that a worthy man has been foully
wronged, and a weak - minded girl beguiled

by the arts of a scoundrel. To right this
wrongs I am willing: to make some sacrifice,
if only in the cause of justice."

While he spoke, Mr. Manners, without
thinking, had laid the portrait of Mark Ingle-field
on the table, and Kingsley, looking
down, recognised it. A sudden paleness
came on his face, and Nansie, following the
direction of his eyes, also looked at the
portrait and recognised it. For a moment
or two no one spoke, and then Kingsley
whispered a few words to Nansie, and she
left the room in silence.

Before you go with Dr. Perriera," said
Kingsley to his father, '* there is something
that must be said. It refers to this man, in
whose company I now learn you came here
this morning."

** Speak, Kingsley," said Mr. Manners,
extending his hand to his son ; but Kingsley
did not attempt to take it. '* Do you doubt
me, Kingsley ? "

*' No, father," said Kingsley, with a
certain decision in his voice and manner
which surprised his listeners, '* I do not
doubt you ; I never have, and I never shall.
Most earnestly do I hope that we shall never
be separated again."

We never shall, Kingsley," said Mr.
Manners, "if it rests with me. You have
no reason to trust my word "

I have every reason," interrupted Kingsley,
impetuously. '' You have never swerved
from it; you have been always just. It* is
not " — and now there was a heightened
colour in his face as he pointed to the portrait
— "because this man was my enemy
that I regard him with horror, but because
I have grounds for suspicion that he sought
to defame the dearest, purest woman that
ever drew the breath of heaven. For me,
he may pass by unscathed, though I would
not defile myself by touching his hand ;
but for another, whom I love and honour as

an aiig:el on earth, I would cras: his foul lie
to light, and throw it in his teeth ! I have
erred, but never in my life have T done
conscious wrongs. What there is best in me,
father, I draw from you." Mr. Manners
served and turned his head. "You never
deceived man or woman, and you transmitted
to me an inheritance of right-doing, which
has been more precious to me than gold.
Answer me candidly, father. Did not this
man traduce my wife ? "

'* He did — and heaven forgive me, I
believed him."

And now ?"

And now," said Mr. Manners, stretching
forth his hands, " there is no penance I would
deem too great to repair the injustice I have
committed. The man who traduced you and
your honoured wife is no longer my friend.
Without you, my son, and Nansie, and
Hester, I should be alone in the world."

This appeal was sufficient for Kingsley,

whose manner instantly softened. He passed
his arm affectionately round his father's
shoulder.

^' After all," he said, '' why should we be
troubled by the knowledge that there are
men living who find pleasure in base actions ?
Let us pity even while we condemn them."

But there was no pity in Mr. Manners'
heart towards Mark Inglefield. His suspicions
were revived by what Dr. Perriera had
said, and the true nature of the man seemed
to be revealed to him.

You will return to-night, father ? " said
Kingsley.

Mr. Manners looked at Dr. Perriera.

*' I cannot tell," said the doctor. " It will
depend upon what you resolve to do."

Can I find a bed in the neighbourhood ? "
asked Mr. Manners.

I can offer you one," replied Dr. Perriera.

Early or late," said Mr. Manners to
Kingsley, " I will return to-night."

We will wait up for you," said Kingsley.

Lieu Mr. Manners called Nansie and
Hester, and, kissing them with much affection,
departed with Dr. Perriera.

As they walked to the shop, Mr. Manners,
without reserve, imparted to Dr. Perriera the
nature of the connection between him and
Mark Inglefield. The confidence was a great
relief to him. Hitherto he had taken pride
in keeping his private affairs close shut in
his heart, and now that the flood-gates were
open, a strange feeling of satisfaction stole
over him. Truly he was no longer alone.

Dr. Perriera did not interrupt him with,
questions, and when Mr. Manners ceased
speaking he said : " I will not assist you to
prejudge the case. You shall hear from
Timothy Chance's own lips the story he
related to me."

"It is he, then' said Mr. Manners, " who
has stirred up this matter afresh ? "

** Timothy," said the doctor, '* is one of us.

He passed many years of his life in these
streets, and he is acquainted with nearly every
person round about. He knew Mary Parkinson
as a child, and, sharp business man as he
is, he is keen in matters of justice."

Does he know anything of my intimacy
with Mr. Inglefield ? "

*' No ; nor does he know that Kingsley is
your son. It will be strange news to him,
and he will rejoice in the good fortune of the
dearest friends he has. T bade him await my
return in my shop."

Mr. Manners was scarcely prepared to see
in Timothy Chance a man who won his regard
the moment he set eyes upon him. Timothy
had grown into something more than a respectable
man ; his appearance was remarkable.
He was tall and well proportioned, and there
was a sincerity and straightforwardness in his
manner which could not fail to favourably
impress strangers with whom he came into
contact for the first time. Being introduced,

VOL. III. R

lie and Mr. Manners shook hands with cordiality.
" Here is a man," thought Mr.
Manners, " who, like myself, has carved his
way upwards." That fact was in itself
sufficient to ensure respect.

Mr. Chance," said Dr. Perriera — he usually
called him by the old name Timothy,,
but on this occasion he considered it would
add weight to Timothy's character to address
him by a more ceremonious title — " relate to
Mr. Manners what you have told me of
Mary Parkinson. It may lead to a result
you little dream of."

Will it lead to justice ? " asked Timothy.

It shall," said Mr. Manners.

These two practical men immediately
understood each other.

*' It saddens me," said Timothy, addressing
himself chiefly to Mr. Manners, " to see
those I have known from childhood on the
wrong path. Generally these things come
home to one, but they appeal to us more

closely when there is a personal connection.
The lot of the j)ooi-' is hard enough, without
those who should know better making it
harder. I do not speak as a class man, but
as a man who is desirous to mend social
grievances. Perhaps by-and-by I may be
able to do something in a public way."

'*Mr. Chance is ambitious," observed Dr.
Perriera.

"Not for myself, nor from vanity, am I

so. I have nothing to boast of in my parents,

for I never saw their faces. I have lifted

myself out of the evil they might have

brought upon me. These things lie deep,

sir, deeper than most people consider. But

that is not to the point. This is what I

have to say with respect to Mary Parkinson.

I have a poultry farm in Finchley, and I

attend to my business. I am up early and

late. It happened last night that I had

much to look after, and my affairs kept me

up till the small hours of this morning.

R 2

Within a Imnclred yards of my farm is a
public-house, the 'Three Tuns/ At four
o'clock this morning I walked from my office
into the fresh air, before retiring to rest. I
do this often ; it freshens me up. When I
was within a few yards of the ' Three Runs,'
my attention was attracted to a cab which
had just driven up to the door. It was an
unusual hour for such a elinor to occur. A
man got out of the cab, and knocked at the
door, and after some delay it was opened.
Exchanging some words with the person who
answered this summons, he returned to the
cab, and assisted a woman to alight. I did
not catch sight of her face, but I saw the
man's ; it was strange to me. The woman
appeared to be in great agitation, and it
seemed to me that she had been crying.
Presently they entered the public-house, the
door of which was closed upon them. I got
into conversation with the driver of the cab,
and learnt that he had had a long drive from

the east end of London, quite close to this
spot. He was to drive the gentleman back
to London, he said ; and soon the gentleman
came out, entered the cab, and was driven
away. I don't know why this simple adventure
should have made an impression
upon me, but it did. However, I had other
things to think of, and I went to bed. I
was up early, and in London here, to see to
the new shop I have opened. I was due
in Finchley again this afternoon — I am a
busy man, you see, sir — and it happened that
when I arrived there I saw another cab
stop at the 'Three Tuns.' But though
it was another cab, it was the same man
who got out of it, and I saw his face
very clearly. It was not the same woman,
though, that jumped out, and I knew her
well. It was a poor, foolish girl, almost a
child in years, but a woman in sin, who
goes by the name of Blooming Bess. Both
the man and the girl went into the 'Three

Tuns.' My curiosity was aroused ; my suspicions
also. I did not like the face of the
man ; it was cold, heartless, cunning. He
had cast looks about hin in which I seemed
to discern evil ; he came from a quarter, or
at least his companions did, with which I
was intimately acquainted. AVe don't live
in the world without learning, and I have
learnt something of the ways of scoundrels.
If chance had put it into my power to unmask
one — and I had a strange idea that it
might be really so — I resolved not to throw
it away. I hung about the place for sometime,
and at length bribed a servant to tell
Blooming Bess secretly that a friend wished
to speak to her in private. Out she came
in a few minutes, and 1 had talk with
her, and learnt that the woman who had been
brought to the ' Three Tuns,' in the middle
of the night, was no other than Mary
Parkinson. Blooming Bess is a careless,
reckless soul, the sort of girl who might

have grown into an honest, respectable
woman if she had had fair chances. She
hadn't, and that is why she is what she is.
I don't say it as a boast that I have helped
her out of hunger sometimes, and I know
she is grateful to me. This afternoon I
promised her something which I shall fulfil ;
she shall have the chance that has never yet
been put in her way of becoming a decent
member of society. And upon the strength
of that promise she told me all I wished to
know. It seems that the man, whose name
she had obtained, bad come in the dead of
night to the street in which Mr. Parkinson
lived. He did not know the house, and
he bribed Blooming Bess to point it out to
him. When he thought he had got rid of
her, he threw a letter up to Mary Parkinson,
whom he had succeeded in awaking, and she
came down to him. They went away together,
and Blooming Bess saw them drive
off in a cab. She had kept watch upon his

movements. This morning the scoundrel
came to the neighbourhood for the purpose of
clearing himself from some kind of suspicion
which had attached itself to him in
relation to Mary Parkinson. He came with a
friend."

** With me," said Mr. Manners.

*' I guessed as much. The scoundrel professed
absolute ignorance of the whereabouts
of Mary Parkinson, and had it not been for
what happened to me last night, might even
now have been regarded as an innocent man.
I will not lengthen the story. Blooming*
Bess expressed her opinion of the man in
terms which he would not have regarded as
flattering. ' He's promised me I don't know
what,' she said, ' to keep his secret ; but I
know the sort of man he is. When he's got
all out of me he can, he'll throw me away like
an old glove — as he'll throw away Mary. The
fool believes in him even now !' Then she told
me that he had tried to disguise himself in

the night by putting on another suit of
clothes — I had observed that myself — and
that if it hadn't been for her, his villainy
would have been exposed this morning when
he came here with you. These are the main
lilies of the story, and I determined to bring
the scoundrel to book. I gathered from
Blooming Bess that the three of them were
to remain at the ' Three Tuns ' to-night, and
were all to go away together to some place

or other ; but where she did not know. He

•

refused to tell her when she asked him.
However, my intention was to take Mr.
Parkinson to the ' Three Tuns ' to-night,
and see what could be done. But I have not
spoken to him yet of my plan. Dr. Perriera,
to whom I have told the whole of the story,
has persuaded me to be guided by him ti
the affair ; he has a wise head and a kind
heart, and 1 am satisfied that he will do
what is right. The first thing he did was to
go to Mr. Parkinson and obtain a portrait of

the scoundrel who has brought Mary to
shame. This I recognised as the man who
brought Mary Parkinson and Blooming Bess
to the ' Three Tuns.' Then he desired me
to wait here until he returned. He has
returned, with you, sir. That is all I have
to say for the present."

'^ I need no farther assurance," said Mr.
Manners; *but you may as well mention the
name which that girl Bess gave you."

Mr. Mark Inglefield," said Timothy
Chance.

'' It is enough. You have rendered me a
ffreat service, for which I cannot be sufficiently
grateful. I will go to this man
myself to-night, and he shall learn from my
lips that his knavery and villainy have been
brought to light. I hold a power over him
which I can serviceably use."

'your plan is a good one, said Dr.
Perriera. " It would never do to take Mr.
Parkinson to his daughter. There would be

mischief done. He has been heard to say, a
dozen times to-day, * If I meet the villain who
has ruined my daughter, and if he will not
make an honest woman of her, I will hang
for him.' You will not go alone ?"

Mr. Manners looked at Timothy Chance
inquiringly.

Yes, sir," said Timothy, " if you will
allow me, I will accompany you."

'' I thank you," said Mr. Manners, and
again the two men shook hands. ^

Then Mr. Manners desired Dr. Perriera to
go to Kingsley, and tell him that he might
not return till morning, and that it would be
best not to wait up for him. After which, he
and Timothy set out on their errand.

'' I will drive you," said Timothy ; "I
have a fast-trotting mare that will skim over
the ground."

The fast-trotting mare being harnessed,
they started off at the rate of ten miles an
hour.

It was closing time at the "Three Tuns," and
some tipplers were being bundled out, much
against their will, when Timothy Chance,
entering with Mr. Manners, called the landlord
aside, and had a hurried conference with
him. The result was satisfactory.

They are having supper in a private
room," said Timothy to Mr. Manners, " and
the landlord will take us up, unannounced."

They ascended the stairs, and the landlord,
without knocking, throwing open the door,
Timothy and Mr. Manners entered the room.

Mark Inglefield was sitting at the supper
table ; by his side sat Mary Parkinson ;
opposite to them sat Blooming Bess. Mark

Inglefield, looking up, with angry words on
his lips at the intrusion, was about to utter
them, when, seeing who his visitors were, he
fell back as if suddenly paralysed. His face
was of a deadly pallor, his limbs trembled,
he was speechless. Mr. Manners gave him
time to recover himself, but the detected
villain did not speak. He felt that retribution
had overtaken him.

** I wish to say a word to you," said Mr.
Manners, sternly. " Do you prefer it should
be said here or in private ? "

Mark Inglefield, shaking like a man in an
ague, rose to his feet and staggered to the door.

'* In private ? " asked Mr. Manners.

In private," replied Mark Inglefield, his
Voice scarcely rising above a whisper.

Remain here," said Mr. Manners to
Timothy, " and explain to Miss Parkinson
why we have come'

Then he followed Mark Inglefield from the
room. The landlord was on the stairs, and

at Mr. Manners' request he conducted the two
to another room, saying :

"You will not be disturbed."

Summoning all his courage, Mark Ino:le-
field said :

*' This is an unexpected honour, sir.
Your errand is probably the same as mine."

What may your errand be ? " asked Mr.
Manners.

I said this morning," replied Mark
Inglefield, striving to believe that the game
was not yet lost, and that he could still
continue to deceive the man upon whom he
had imposed for so many years, '* that I
would find Mary Parkinson, and endeavour
to extract the truth from her. With the aid
of a detective I succeeded in tracking her
here."

Yes," said Mr. Manners, inwardly resolving
to ascertain to what further lengths
in the art of duplicity Mark Inglefield would
go ; " was she surprised to see you ? "

Very," said Mark Inglefield, beginning
to gain confidence. '' Very much surprised."

She did not know you ? "

How could she, sir ? It was a bold plan
of mine, but I have hopes that it will be
attended with the happiest results. To restore
an erring child to her father's arms is
a task of which I am sure you will approve."

"I do."

'perhaps," continued Mark Inglefield
(thinking to himself, "what a fool I was to
exhibit any sign of fear ! "), " perhaps to bring
her back to the path of virtue and make an
honest woman of her — this is what I hope to
achieve. Then I could come to you, and say:
1 have done this good action in return for
the slander which an enemy dared to breathe
against me.* "

** It would be a good action. To bring a
weak, erring child back to the path of virtue,
and make an honest woman of her. Is that
really your wish ? "

What other wish can 1 have, sir, with
respect to Mr. Parkinson ? Would it not
entirely clear me from suspicion ? "

Mr. Manners ignored the question. '' She
did not know you, you say. How did you introduce
yourself to her ? In your own name ?"

** Of course. It would have been wrong
to use another."

'' Did the detective you employed accompany
you ? "

He did ; else I should hardly have
found this out-of-the-way hole — in which,
sir, I am surprised to see sou. But I need
not express surprise. Your decision of character
and kindness of heart are well known
to me."

"My decision of character — yes; my
kindness of heart — those are meaningless
words in your experience of me. But the
past can be atoned for."

You have nothing to reproach yourself
with, sir."

My conscience answers. Bat it is not to
speak of myself that I have come to-night.
Is the detective who conducted you here now
in the house ? I should like to speak to him."

How unfortunate ! It is but a few
minutes since he left us. Had I known "

"Bat you did not know."

No, indeed, sir."

*' Did you disclose to Miss Parkinson the
nature of your errand ? "

'' Yes, sir."

What was her answer ? "

She was grateful, truly grateful."

*' Was it your intention to take her back
to her home to-night ? "

Scarcely to-night. Early in the morning,
after she was calmer, and prepared to
meet her father."

She has a companion with her ? "

It was this question which caused Mark
Inglefield to suddenly recollect that Mr.
Manners had seen Blooming Bess earlier in

VOL. III. s

the day. Up to this point he had not given
her a thought.

"Ah, yes, sir, a companion, who gave
us certain information when we paid our visit
to Mr. Parkinson. It was a happy thought
of mine to take the poor girl with us ; it
would inspire Miss Parkinson with confidence
in me. Besides, sir, it would not have been
proper for me to visit Miss Parkinson alone."

Shall I call her down to test the truth
of your statements ? "

Surely, sir, you do not doubt me 1 "

*' I ask again, shall I call her down to test
the truth of your statements ? "

Shall I go up and bring her down to
you J

In order," said Mr. Manners, " that you
may have time to concoct some story which
you can prevail upon her to adopt, so that
I may be the further deceived ? "

'' Sir, you wrong me," stammered Mark
Inglefield.

Mr. Inglefield," said Mr. Manners, " let
us throw aside the mask of treachery and
deceit. The questions I addressed to you
were put for a purpose. Is it sufficiently
explicit to you if I tell you that you have
betrayed yourself ? "

^' I do not understand you."

"That is not true. You understand me
well enough, though yet you do not know
all I have resolved upon. It is I, not you,
who will take Miss Parkinson to her father
to-night. It is for you, not for me, to make
an honest woman of her."

Then, indeed, did Mark Inglefield know
that the game was up.

If you are determined not to believe
what I say, sir "

Not one word. All your statements are
false — in the present, as they have been in
the past. It was you who stole Miss Parkinson
from her home last night, and the poor
girl who is now with her was bought over

by you. Be thankful that you are spared
a visit from Mr. Parkinson. But for me,
you would be face to face with him, and
would have had to answer for your crime.
Mr. Inglefield, evil can be atoned for. For
the evil I have done in the past it shall
be my endeavour to atone. It will be
to your interest to come to the same
resolve."

Can nothing I can say convince you that
you are doing me an injustice ? "

*' Nothing. So much has been revealed
and made clear to me that only one course
remains open to you, so far as I am concerned."


Perhaps," said Mark Inglefield, in a tone
which he vainly strove to make defiant, '* you
will explain yourself ? "

'' I will do so. You will marry the girl
you have brought to shame."

*' I, sir, I ! It is a monstrous idea ! "

Knowing you as I know you now, there

is indeed something revolting in it — and it
may be that she will not give you the opportunity
of making atonement." Mark Ingle-field
smiled scornfully. *^ There is a road,"
pursued Mr. Manners, 'rout of evil, and for a
little while this road will be open to you.
Turn your back upon it, and go forth into the
world, a beggar ! Enter it — with a purified
heart, if you can — and I will make you
recompense."

*' You will fulfil the expectations you have
always held out to me ? "

No. My promise was given to a man of
honour, as I believed. I will not bring my
tongue to utter what you have proved yourself
to be. But I will give you a competence,
which my lawyers shall arrange with you.
For myself, after this night I will never see
you again, nor shall you ever again darken
my door. There is something more, and it
may weigh with you. For years past you
have transacted certain business matters forme.

I have not too closely looked into them.
Refuse the offer I have made to you, and they
shall be searched into and examined with
but one end in view — punishment. Accept
it, and all that has passed between ns in
connection with these matters shall be buried
for ever. You will know how best to decide.
I give you " — he took out his watch — " five
minutes to decide. Your fate and future are
ill your own hands."

Then there was silence. With his back
turned to Mr. Manners, Mark Inglefield debated
with himself. He knew that the matters
to which Mr. Manners referred would not
bear investigation, and that he was in
danger of the criminal dock ; he knew that
Mr. Manners would show him no mercy.
He shrugged his shoulders savagely, and
said :

What do you call a competence ? "
"It shall be decided between you and my
lawyers at three o'clock tomorrow afternoon,

by which time they will have received my
instructions. You have barely half a minute
to arrive at a decision. I am inexorable."

'' I accept your offer," said Mark Ingle-field.


'you will find Miss Parkinson in her
father's home. There must be no delay.
FarewelL"

At nine o'clock the following morning
Mr. Manners sat at breakfast with Kingsley,
Nansie, and Hester. There were no traces
of fatigue on Mr. Manners' face ; on the
contrary, it looked fresh and young. A new
and better life was before him. Mr. Lovedayay,
the good old book-man, kept purposely away ;
he would not intrude upon a meeting which
he deemed had something sacred in it. And
indeed it had. Hearts that should never have
been separated were united, and love shone
within the little room.

It was a humble meal, but the sweetest
that' Mr. Manners had tasted for many, many

years. Nansie's face was bright, and now
and then her lips were wreathed in happy
smiles, and now and then her eyes were filled
with tears. And so, we leave them. Flowers
are blossoming ; there is good in the future
to be done.

It may be, also, in the future, that Hester
Manners and Timothy Chance may come
together for weal or woe. Words have yet
to be spoken, but in their hearts love has
already found its nest. May their lives be
as sweet and pure as the lives of Kingsley and
Nansie ! There will be manna for the hungry,
and light will be shed upon the dark spaces of
the east.

THE END.

CHA.BLSS Dickens i.KU Brand, CBVSTA.L Fallacy PBBSS.
