



as

iixiuii\r

OF THE

U N Diversity

or Ill Noise

Fb59€

V.1

ELI'S Children.

YOL. I.

Croisades of mx iiil^iijpg |amilg,

GEORGE MANVILLE Penn,

AUTHOR OF
'the vicar's PEOPLE;" "THE PARSON o' DUMFORD," ETf.

LONDON :
CHAPMAN & Hail, Limited, 11, Henrietta ST., W.C.

1883.

lAU Rights reserved.'}

F3se)e>

CONTENTS OF VOLUME I.

CHAPTER I.

PAGE

HOT WATER IN LAWFORD . . . 1

CHAPTER II.

THE RECTORY GIRLS . . . 15

CHAPTER III.

THE STATE OF LAWFORD . . . 33

CHAPTER IV. ^

AT LAWFORD SCHOOL . . . 48

CHAPTER V.

ONE OF THE BOYS .



CHAPTER YI.

PAGE

MAGISTERIAL FUNCTIONS . . . 83

CHAPTER VII.
Polly's surprise . . . . 100

CHAPTER VIII.

THE BLACK SHADOW . . 116

CHAPTER IX,

ORTHODOX TO A DEGREE . . . 136

CHAPTER X.

ANOTHER TROUBLE FOR DISCUSSION . . 162

CHAPTER XI.

THE NEW MASTER FOR LAWFORD . . 174

CHAPTER XII.

A QUESTION OP INCOME . . . 190

CHAPTER XIII.

VISITORS AT THE FARM . . . 212

CHAPTER XIV.

THE BAD SHILLING . . . . 232

CHAPTER XV.

Page

THE PRODIGAL SONS . . . 248

CHAPTER XVI.

AT THE king's HEAD . . . 264

CHAPTER XVII.
THE governors' meeting . "^ . . 277

CHAPTER XVIII.

DOUBTS . . . . . 290

CHAPTER XIX.
Julia's horror . . . . 307

BOOK I.— THE Rectory FOLK.
CHAPTER I.

HOT WATER IN LAWFORD.

Eh ? AYliat ? "

I say, why don't you give it up quietly ? "
'' Speak up ; Fm a little hard of hearing."
I say, why don't you give it up quietly ? "
roared the speaker to a little bent old man,
with a weak, thin, piping voice, and a sharp
look that gave him somewhat the air of a
very attenuated sparrow in a severe frost, his
shrunken legs, in tight yellow leather leggings,
seeming to help the idea.

VOL. I. B

/

*' Don't shout at me like that, Master
Portlock. I ain't deaf, only a trifle hard of
hearing when I've got a cold — just a trifle,
you know."

Have you got a cold ? " asked the man
addressed, a sturdy-looking, fresh-coloured,
middle-aged man, with a very bluff* manner,
and a look of prosperity in his general appearance
that made him seem thoroughly adapted
to his office. In fact, he was just the man that
a country clergyman would be glad to elect
at a vestry meeting for vicar's churchwarden.

Eh ? "

"I — say — have — you — got — a — cold ?
Hang him, how deaf he is 1 "

''Oh, no! oh, no!" chirped the little old
man, sharply ; " I'm not deaf. Just a little
thick i' the ears. Yes ; I've got a cold. It's
settled here — just here," he piped, striking
himself upon his thin chest with the hand
that held his stick. " A lead cold — a nasty
cold as keeps mc awake all night, doing nowt

but cough. It's that stove, that's what it is,
Master Portlock/'

Nonsense, man ! It would keep the cold
off."

Eh ? "

'' I say it would keep the cold off."

Nay, nay ; not it. A nasty, brimstone-smelling,
choking thing, as sends out a reek
as settles on your chest. Stove, indeed !
What do we want with your noo-fangled
stoves ? We never had no stoves before.
Here he stops away from town all these
years, only coming now and then, and now all
at once he's back at the Rectory, and nothing's
right. Mr. Paulby never said a word about
no stoves."

No ; but see how damp the church was."

"Eh?"

Damp," roared the Church warden ; "church
damp. Cush — shuns — soul — dee."

Chap ! Nonsense, Master Portlock. Damp ?
Suppose it was ? A clutch ought to be damp,

2 B

and smell solemn like of owt age and venerations.
Mouldy ? Ay ; why not ? " he piped.
'* 'Mind ta chut eh folk o' decay, and what
they're coming to some day. I once went
to London, Master Portlock — forty year ago
now, sir— forty year ago. It was cold
weather, and I got 'most froze a' to]? o' the
coach, and it was a 'main place. Ay, that
it was. But you've been there ? "

'ray, lots o' times in my life."

Never been in your life ? Then don't go.
Never go if you can help it. Owt ]mr. Burton
paid for me to go, he did — owt vicar's father,
you know — and he said to me a did, ' Mind ta
go and see some o' the London clutches,
Warmoth,' he says ; and I did, and bless thou,
pretty places they weer. I never see a playhouse,
but Sammy Mason went to one i'
London, and he told me what it were like,
and the clutch I went into i' the City weer
just like it. Why, nun, their were a big
pictor over the 'monuments, and carpets on

the floors, and all the pews was full o' red
cushions an' basses, just as if they was all
squires sittings, and brass rails and red
curtains an' strand candlesticks. Then right
up i' the gallery wheel the singers sit was a
great thing all covered wi' golden pipes, ana
man i' the front sitting' lookin' at his self i' a
lookin' glass. That was t' organ, you know,
and eh, but it was a strange sort o' place
altogether to call a clutch."

'^ Not like our old barn, eh, Sammy ? "
shouted the Churchwarden.

"Nay, not a bit. Master Portlock/' piped
the old man. " Give me whitewash, and neat
clean pews and a plait-straw cushion and bass.
Folk don't go to sleep then, and snore through
t' garment. If I had my way. Master Portlock,
I wouldn't lev a things changed."

No, I suppose not, Sam," said the Churchwarden,
nodding.

Sixty years have I been clerk o' t' owt
clutch, and hae buried generations of them as

corned to the owl place — christened 'em, and
married 'em, and buried 'em, Master Portlock.
They didn't like me being made clerk so
young in them days. Jacky Robinson, as
wanted to be clerk when father died, said I
was nobbut a boy, but t' owt vicar said — owt
Master Willoaghby,^you didn't know him ? "

The Churchwarden shook his head.

No ; he died eight and fifty year ago.
He said, ' No ; let Sammy Warmoth step into
his father's shoes, same as him as is dead
stepped into his father's shoes. I find,' he
says, ' there's been Warmth clerks here fora
hundred years at least ; ' and now, Master
Portlock, sir, I can say there's been Warmth
clerks here for a hundred and sixty year, an'
if my life is spared I'll make it two hundred,
for they cim't turn me out, and 1 w^ean't go."

How old wert ta when you was made
rlcrk, Sammy ? " said the Churchwarden,
looking at the old man with a pitying smile.

Tlirutty-three, and 1 was just married,

Master Portlock, and thirty-three and sixty
makes ninety-three, eh ? "

Fine owt age, Sam."

Eh 1 "

A fine owt age, I say."

Chap ! Not it. Head your Bible more,
man. Ninety-three's as good as nowt to what
men used to be. Nay, nay, nay, I shan t give
up. Yow may go and tell parson as their's
lots o' life in me yet, and that he'd best go
back again to London and foreign parts, and
leave us alone here wi' Mr. Paulby. He'll
drive all the consternation over to the Dissenters,
they're talking already o' building
noo chapel for ta Wesley folk."

Ay, they're going ahead, Sammy, but we
don't care for the opposition shop. We've
got the old established bank, eh ? "

That's a true word, Master Portlock," piped
the old man, " and we can pity 'em, wi' their
plans and local preachers, a set o' nobodies,
o' sons o' Levi, taking off their aprons and

running fro' behind their counters to usurp
the priest's office ; but you mark my words,
and you may tell parson what I say ; if he's
cominfT^ down here thinking to do must as he
likes, he'll be driving all folk to chapel."

No, no ; not he, Sammy."

Ay, but he will, altering ta clutch service,
an' upsetting all that's owt — schoolmaster,
and clerk, and clutch. You tell him that
he may keep his man till I'm dead, and then
put him in, for I nivver had a boy o' my own
to tak' my place."

But he hasn't got a man."

Eh ? Not got a man '? Good job too.
He don't want one ? "

No. He isn't going to have a clerk anymore."


Eh ? "

I say you'll be the last clerk o' Lawford.
There'll nivver be another."

"Nivver be another? What dost ta
mean ? "

*' Mr. Mallow is going to do the service
wi'out a clerk," roared the Churchwarden.

*' Do service wi'ont a clerk ! " piped the old
man, indignantly ; " who's to say t' ' Amens ' ? "

Congregation and singers."

An' what 'bout t' 'spouses ? " quavered the
old clerk.

People ! "

They were standing in the churchyard,
walled up high above the town street, and
as the Churchwarden spoke the old clerk
placed his left hand across the small of his
back, and stamping his stick on the cobble
stones of the path, he made an effort to
straighten himself up so as to gaze at the
venerable mouldering' square-towered church,
taking it in from end to end with his pale
grey eyes before resuming his former attitude
with his head on one side.

*' Not going to have another clerk ? " he
quavered.

No," roared the Churchwarden.

'' No one to say t' amiens and 'spouses ?"

'' No."-

*' Who's t' help him on wi' his gown ? "

The Churchwarden shook his head.

Who's going to shut pulpit door ? "

There was another shake of the Churchwarden's
head.

Then who'll give out t' psalms ? "

Parson."

Ah ! " ejaculated the old man, staring
down at his feet.

"Look here, Sammy," said the Churchwarden,
kindly, and with his lips close to
the old man's ear ; " Mr. Mallow's a nice
sort o' man, and means kindly."

"No one to say t' amiens ? '* said the old
clerk, softly.

He thinks you're getting too owt for the
work."

Nobbut t' people to say the 'spouses,"
continued the old clerk, without seeming: to
hear the Churchwarden's words.

"He's been talking to us at sort o' meeting:,
and he wants to get up testimonial for thee.
Says we owt to make un new to mak' thee
comfortable to end o' thee days, and hell give
twenty pounds towards it, and you're to have
one of the Bede Houses."

Howe's he going to bury them as dies ? "
piped the old man, suddenly.

The Churchwarden shook his head.

Old Sammy Warmoth took a couple of
feeble steps towards the edge of the path,
and began to poke at the loose, friable
earth of the grave nearest to him with
the Ion or brass ferrule of his stick, taking
two hands to the task, and making quite a
little hole.

It's gotten time I was put down their," he
said, in a low voice that was very pathetic in
its tones. " There's a sight o' my owl friends
I've seen put down here, and its gotten time
for me to be put along wi' 'em, sown a corruptible
body to be raised an incorruptible.

for I repose I'm gotten owt and good for
novvt."

'' Oh, nay, nay, Sammy," said the Churchwarden,
warmly. *' Don't take on about it.
Tak' my advice. Don't be obstinit, but just
go up and see parson quiet like, "an say you
give up, and tak' it kindly, an' I'll see as you
don't come to no wrong."

No one to say t' amiens," muttered the
old man — '' no one to say t' 'spouses — no one
to give out t' psalms. Why," he cried, raising
his voice, '* I believe it now."

'' Believe what, Sammy ? "

That he's going' to have t' owt pews out,
and put i' benches ; and t said dien I heard
it as the dead wouldn't rest i' their graves if
he did."

*' It's all true, Sammy. They're going to
spend three thousand pounds i' doing up t'
owt church, and young Lord Artingale's
going to give us an organ."

Then I weaned go," cried the old man.

stamping his stick down on the stones. " I'll
nivver do it. I've been here clerk and saxton
these sixty year, and I helps wi' very grave
even now. It weaned do. It's a revvylootion,
and a sweeping away of t' owt clutch, like
they did among the French, and I'll be one
o' the faithful while I live."

Nonsense, man ; come, say thou'lt give up
quiet like," said the Churchwarden, soothingly.

Eh ? "

Say thou'lt give up quietly."

Nivver, nivver ! " quavered the old man,
angrily. '' It's as much my clutch as his,
and if he goes wrong wi' his new notions and
idees, I'll stand by mine. There's nivver been
a clerk o' Lawford as didn't die a clerk, and
dost ta think I'll be the first. Master Portlock ?
Nivver. I'll how by clutch till t' last, say
what thou will ! "

Poor owt boy ! " said the Churchwarden,
as he stood watching the tottering figure
descending the slope on the farther side of

the churchyard, till it seemed from where the
gazer stood as if the old man were sinking
slowly into a grave. First he disappeared to
the middle, then the path line was level with
his shoulders, and a few moments more and
his head had gone.

Poor owt boy ! " said the Churchwarden,
musingly. " It can't be for long. I'll ask
parson to let him stop."

CHAPTEE 11.

THE RECTORY GIRLS.

I LOVE the country ! I love the country ! "

Hush, hush, Cynthy ! don't be so childish ;
some one will hear you."

No one is near us, Ju. That's why 1 like
being down here."

But it is so childish to keep running up
the banks and shouting like that."

'well, but that's what I like. It's the
country air makes one feel so young, and I am
so, so glad that we are going to stay at home.
I want to know the people. Oh, I was tired
of the Continent. I want to be free."

Now, Cynthy, wdiat would papa say if he
saw you climb up on that gate ? "

Don't know — don't care ! "

"Well, then," said Julia Mallow, smiling,
what would Lord Artingale say ? "

"That I was a jolly little girl, and come
and sit beside me."

Oh ! Cynthy ! "

'^ And put his arm round my waist to keep
me from falling off. Oh, I say, Ju, he did
once, and it was so funny."

'* Cynthy, I'm ashamed of you," cried her
sister, and there was a slight deepening of
the colour in her sweet English face.

'well, 1 am ashamed of myself," cried
Cynthia, springing lightly off the gate, and
passing her arm round her sister as they
walked on along the rutty lane. " But I do
feel so happy, Ju. So will you some day, when
you meet the special him. Not Perry Morton
though. Ha, ha, ha! How stupid papa is!
I say, Ju, though, who shall we go and
see ? Papa says we are to visit the people
a OTcat deal, and set them to know more of

US, but I shan't go near any of the horrid
Dissenters."

Don't call people horrid because they don't
think the same as we do, Cynthy."

Well, but it is horrid. Papa says it's
dreadful, the opposition that is in the town.
I heard him say to mamma yesterday that he
couldn't understand the people a bit, and that
though he had now come to settle down
amongst them for good, only when we go to
town for the season, everybody seemed so
independent, and they were all in opposition
to him."

Yes, he was talking to Mr. Paulby about
it at dinner on Tuesday."

Papa is going to improve everything, he
says. The place must have been terribly
neglected by Mr. Paulby. Oh, what a funny
little man he is ! "

*' I think him very nice and genuine," said
Julia, quietly.

"But you mustn't fall in love with him,

VOL. I. c

Ju. He's too old. But I say, what was the
real reason 'of our being away from Lawford
so much ? "

Money matters," said her sister. " Papa
got to be very much behindhand through
Frank and Cyril."

'' Oh, I wish I were a man ! " cried Cynthia,
with her pretty fair young face flushing. '^ How
I would have whipped those two fellows and
made good boys of them ! They've half
broken poor mamma's heart."

I'm afraid papa indulged them too much,"
said Julia, quietly, and the two girls walked
on for some little distance in silence, enjoying
the briskness of the morning air.

"Now where are we going ? " cried Cynthia
suddenly. " Oh, I know. Down that lane
leads to the ford, where the wheelwright's is.
Let's go and see Polly Morrison."

Shall we ? " said her sister, smiling.

Oh, yes. Tt will be a parochial visit all
the sam<\ Only fancy, Polly with a baby !

What a little stupid she was to leave us to
come back here and marry a wheelwright 1 "

T don't know," said Julia quietly; " perhaps
she is very happy."

Oh, of course. People are when they get
married. Come along ; I want to see Polly's
baby. I wish she had not left us. She was
such a clever maid."

I was very glad she went," said Julia
gravely.

Glad ? Why ? "

Because of Cyril. He was always following
her about. She complained to me several
times."

Cyril is a wretch ! " said Cynthia, with
heightened colour. " Papa ought to whip
him. He always would look at pretty girls.
I say, Ju, did you see Miss Portlock, the
schoolmistress, on Monday ? Was she nice ? "

"Yes, I thought her very nice and superior.
She is the churchwarden's niece. Hush !
here is Mr. Paulby."

C 2

"Good morning, ladies," said a little plump
man, raising his hat and showing his slightly
]bald head. " What a lovely morning ! I think
I dare prophesy where you are going."

If you prophesy Morrison's cottage, Mr.
Pulley, you are right," said Cynthia, merrily.

Then I am right," said the curate. " I have
just come from there, and Mrs. Morrison has
been chatting about old times, and how she
went all over the Continent with you."

She didn't tell you about Cyril, I know,"
said Cynthia to herself.

I'm really very, very glad, ladies, that the
rectory is inhabited again," said the curate,
and I hope you will help me a great deal."

That indeed we will, ]mr. Paulby,"said Julia.

*eyes, and visit, and do needlework, and
he]}) in the schools, and everything," said
Cynthia, quickly. " And now we must say
good morning, Mr. Paulby. Come, Julia."

There was the customary hand-shaking and
raising of the curate's hat, and then they

separated, the little plump rosy man looking
very thoughtful as he made some observation
to himself, and that observation was " Hah 1 "
a remark that evidently meant a great deal.

I'm not going to allow that, Ju," said
Cynthia, decidedly. " The little man is quite
smitten with you, and if Frank or Cyril
were to know "

Don't be absurd ! " said her sister, colouring
a little.

That would be as bad as Perry Morton.
Oh, here we are. Why, what a pretty little
place Polly has got ! "

The sisters stopped at the road-side to gaze
at the long low ivy-covered cottage, with a
broad patch of green in front, upon which
was a lumber of broken carts and waggons
waiting: to be doctored. There was a shed
at one end, from which came the sound of
sawing, for which job there was a good-sized
pit, while farther on the road dipped suddenly
down and passed through a little river, which

foamed and bubbled and sparkled as it turned
the gravelly shallows into liquid silver in the

morning sun.

Oh, what a funny little thing ! " cried
Cynthia, as they were welcomed into the
neat cottage. " Look at its little button-hole
of a mouth. Let me take it, Polly."

The young mother, quite a rustic beauty,
with a touch of refinement in lier appearance,
picked up during her stay on the Continent as
maid to the rector's daughters, handed her
plump little baby to the extended arms; watchfully,
though, and as if afraid the treasure
might be dropped upon the red brick floor.

And how are you, Polly ? " said Julia,
looking rather searchingly at the young wife
as she set chairs for her visitors. " I hope
you are very happy ? "

''Oh, as happy, Miss Julia, as the day is
long, and I'm so busy that the days are never
long enough."

Coney, coney, coney, coney ! " cried Cynthia

to the baby in a very dove-like manner, as she
kissed and fondled it, laughing merrily the while.

'' I was so surprised, Miss, to hear that you
had come back to the rectory."

Not going to stop very long this time,
Polly — I mean Mrs. Morrison," said Cynthia,
without raising her face from the baby. " Weare
going to town for the season. Oh, you,
you, you funny little thing ! There's a wet
mouth. Oh, I say, Ju, I wonder whether I
shall ever have a baby of my own."

'' Cynthia ! " cried her sister, reproachfully.

'' It would be such fan. I say, Polly, is it
good ? "

"Oh, there never was such a good baby.
Miss, and Tom worships it. She's as good
as gold."

She ? " cried Cynthia. " Is it a she ? "

Oh, yes. Miss," cried the young mother,
proudly.

How funny ! " said Cynthia. " It might
be anything, it is so round and soft."

"Would you mind feeling how heavy she
grows, Miss Julia ? " said the young mother
and the baby was duly handed to Julia, who
held it to her cheek, and then gazed lovingly
at the little thing, her eyes wearing a curious
wistful aspect, full of tenderness, while the
young mother's face lit up with pleasure.

Isn't it heavy, Miss ? " she said.

Wonderfully," replied Julia quietly, and
with as much decision as if her life had been
spent in the management of babies.

She don't know ! " laughed Cynthia.
'' I don't believe she ever had hold of one
before. Here, give it to me."

No ; let it stay," said Julia softly, and to
the young mother's great satisfaction, for she
seemed rather scared lest Cynthia should let
it fall in tossing it up and down.

She gets heavier every day, Miss, and Tom
says it's wonderful now for a baby a month old."

You must introduce us to your husband,
PoJlv."

Yes, Miss, Til call him in. Or no. Miss,
not this mornings' said the young wife, rather
hurriedly ; "he is very busy."

Some other time then," said Julia. " I
suppose you are very fond of it, Polly ? "

Fond of it. Miss Julia '? Oh, you can't
think how I love it."

No," said Julia, softly, and looking curiously
at the young mother, " I suppose not."

Oh, here is Budge," said little Mrs.
Morrison, as a heavy, stolid-looking girl
entered the room. " She will take baby now,
Miss. There, Budge, take her in the kitchen,
and don't go too near the fire."

No, missus," said the girl, taking the
well-wrapped-up baby in her red arms, staring
heavily the while at the visitors, and consequently
nearly bringing her charge to grief
by stumbling over a stool.

"Oh, Budge !" cried little Mrs. Morrison.

I ain't hurt, missus," said the girl coolly,
and she allowed herself to be piloted out of

the room by her mistress, when a chair was
heard to scroop.

Ob, bow funny it does seem ! " cried
Cynthia.

"Hnsb! don't talk like that," said her
sister ; *' here she is."

Little Mrs. Morrison came into the room
again, looking very red-faced and hot.

'* What a funny little maid you have got,
Polly ! " cried Cynthia.

Yes, Miss Cynthia ; she is from the workhouse,
and she is a little clumsy, but she is
very faithful, and so fond of baby."

*' And what is to be its name 1 " cried
Cynthia.

Rose, Miss ; and — and," stammered the
young wife, looking very hard at Julia.

*' And what, Polly ? "

*' I — I had a sort of idea, Miss Julia,
that "

That what, Polly ? Speak out ! "

*' Of asking you and ]\Iiss Cynthia if "

"If what?"

'* You wouldn't mind being little Rose's
godmothers."

Oh, no, Polly," said Julia, " I think not."

Oh, yes, Ju, it would be good fun," cried
Cynthia.

I told Tom it would be too "much to ask,
Miss Julia ; but he said you could only
say no

Of course," said Julia, thoughtfully. " And
he is very kind to you ? "

Oh, kind isn't the word, Miss Julia," cried
the young wife.

And are his relations kind to you too ? "

He has no relations, Miss, but one brother,"
replied Polly, '' and he is a good deal of
trouble to him — I mean to us," she added,
correcting herself.

*' Trouble to you, Polly ? "

Yes, Miss ; he won't work, and he has
taken to a gipsy sort of life, and goes
poaching, I'm afraid."

'' That's very, very sad," said Julia, remembering
that her father had must been made
chairman of the bench of magistrates.

*' Yes, Miss, very, very sad, for we are
always afraid of his getting into trouble ; but
there, you know, Miss, what brothers are."

'eyes, yes," said Julia, hastily. "I will
think about what you said, Polly," she added,
risings, and holdings out her hand, " and if
papa does not object, Cynthia and I will be
godmothers to baby."

Oh, if you would. Miss ! " cried the young
wife, flushing with pride ; and then, in a
low voice, as Cynthia went on out of the
room, *you always were kind to me. Miss
Julia, and more like a sister than a mistress.
May I kiss you, Miss ? "

"Oh, yes, Polly," said Julia, kissing her
smilingly.

*you always were kind to me, Miss, and
there's nothing in life T wouldn't do for you
if you wanted it."

Come, Ju," cried Cynthia, from without.

*' Oh, thank you, Polly, I know you would''

And you'd come and ask me. Miss, if you
wanted help, wouldn't you ? '^

Indeed I would, Polly ; but why do you
ask me in that strange way ? "

'* Because — because, Miss, I want to ask a
favour of you now," cried the young wife,
desperately.

What is it, Polly ? " said Julia, showing
deep interest now.

Please, Miss, you — you remember when
we were at Dinan.'^

Yes, yes ; what 'i " cried Julia.

"About Mr. Cyril."

Yes," cried Julia, catching her hand ; "he
has not dared ? "

He — he came here yesterday, Miss, while
Tom was out," cried Polly, bursting into
tears, " and he came once before ; and it
frightens me. Miss — it horrifies me ; for Tom
loves me so dearly, Miss ; and it would make

liii angry, and break his heart if he thought
ill of rae, Miss Julia."

'^ But did you encourage him to come
again ? " cried Julia, angrily.

No, Miss Julia, I nearly went on my
knees to him, and begged him not to come
again, but he only laughed, and — and called
me a little fool."

You shall tell your husband, Polly," cried
Julia, hotly.

I — I ^Yas afraid. Miss Julia," sobbed Polly.
I was afraid of making mischief. I dared
not tell him. If he thought Mr. Cyril
came here and troubled me, he would be
ready to kill him. Miss, and me too. Oh,
what shall I do, what shall I do ? "

I'll tell papa," said Cynthia, who had
come back unseen. " I declare it's shameful,
and 1 — 1 wish my brothers were both dead.
Oh, Ju, papa must know."

No, no," said Julia, holding the sobbing
little woman to her breast ; " Poilv is right.

It would be making terrible mischief. I'll
speak to Cyril myself, and if he will not
listen to me, mamma shall try. But, Polly,
you will tell me if he comes again ? "

Oh, yes, yes. Miss Julia," cried the
young wife, gazing up passionately in her
visitor's face.

And always tell me the whole truth ? "

'* Indeed — indeed I will. Please, Miss
Julia," she said simply, "I don't think I
ever told a lie."

I don't believe you ever did, Polly,"
said Julia, kissing her, and turning to the
door to go. " There, good-bye, and don't be
low-spirited. Cyril is soon going away again,
and even if he is not, he shall not trouble

you."

Thank you, Miss Julia, and you too, Miss
Cynthia," said the young wife, wiping her
eyes ; " and perhaps you will be at baby's
christening ? "

If papa doesn't object, indeed we will,"

cried Julia, smiling, and the sisters went back
along the lane.

I would — I would indeed," said the
young mother, softly ; "I'd do anything to
serve dear Miss Julia, and I hope and pray
she may never feel such trouble as I do now.
Oh, if only they had stopped away ! "

She was standing in the little porch, listening
to the regular harsh sound of a saw in the
work-shed, some fifty yards away, gazing
after the sisters, till a step coming in the
other direction made her sharply turn her
head, and then, as she shrank back, her whole
aspect seemed to change. She turned ghastly
white, her eyes dilated, and she trembled
visibly, as if at the sight of some great horror.

It was nothing so very terrible approaching
either, being only a tall, well-built, handsome
young man of six or seven and twenty, his
hands in the pockets of his loose jacket, and a
cigar in his mouth.

CHAPTEE III.

THE STATE OF LAWFORD.

Only some twenty years ago, but from the
streets and surroundings of the place the date
might have been in the last century. For
Lawford was in an out-of-the-way part of
Lincolnshire towards which one of the main
northern lines had been running straight, but
the company were beaten in Parliament, and
the iron road curved off, leaving Lawford
where it was — all behind.

When the new rector was appointed to the
living he resolutely refused to go without a
fresh rectory was built, for the old house, with
its low rooms, was ten yards from the churchyard,
which in the course of centuries had

VOL. I. • p

gone up, while the old rectory seemed to
have gone down, so that you walked along
a slope and then descended three steps into
the ancient, damp, evil-smelling place, which
had more the aspect of a furnished mausoleum
than a house.

The consequence was that a grant was
made for the building of a new rectory, which
was erected a mile and a half out of the town ;
and as the living was rich, the Rev. Eli
Mallow borrowed a couple of thousand pounds
to have the house made handsomer, and to
add conservatories and greenhouses to the
place, got it all in excellent order, and then
went on the Continent for a few years, when
the old rectory did very well for Mr. Paulby,
the curate who was left in charge.

Difficulties of pocket had certainly had
something!: to do with the absenteeism of the
Rev. Eli Mallow, but there had been other
troubles as well in connection with his sons,
whom he had made several efforts to start in

life and get away from Lawford. They were
the sons of a clergyman, but two more
clerical youths never troubled father, and
so unfortunate were his efforts, so persistently
did the young men return home to their fond
and indulgent mother and their proud weak
father, that the Lawford people, famous among
themselves for nick-naming those that they
did not like, called Frank Mallow, the elder
brother, *' The Bad Shilling," while Cyril, consequent
upon a visit to Australia, they named
The Boomerang."

They were an old-fashioned people at
Lawford, and the " owt rector" had been old-fashioned
too. It was past the year of our
Lord eighteen hundred and forty, and Victoria
was seated upon the throne, but the old
rector thought it no wrong to go to one of
the inns and sit and drink his mug of ale
and chat and gossip* with any townsman who
came in.

As to the church, a colder, damper, more

D 2

musty-smelling place could not have been
found. Its glory was its whitewash, which
was so rich and fat and thick that every here
and there it bore a crop of curious spindly
mushrooms, which grew and flourished and
died, leaving great black patches on the walls
like hatchments to record their vegetable
deaths, till about once in a generation the
whitewash brush came into use asjain, and a
new coat was laid on to moulder and grow
damp, and fall in patches of a goodly thickness
upon the stained stone pave.

The worst of that whitewash was that it
was not white, only a dirty wash that covered
the ceiling and face of the wall, great blank
patches of which used to be mentally studied
by the schoolboys as maps of unknown
regions, for the moisture that streamed down
from the roof soon marked black rivers, while
dark boundary lines seemed to be traced by
cracks and mould of strange continents,
islands, and seas, upon which in summer-time

bluebottle flies and spiders made islands or
cruising barks.

In the moist autumn times the place always
broke out into a cold perspiration, the wet
standing in great tears upon the flat tombstones
and even upon the broad slab of old
blackened oak that served for Sammy Warmoth's
desk, where his books, like those above
his head, were patterned on their covers with
white mould-spots exhaling an odour of mushrooms
not fit to eat.

The pews were of dull white deal ; the
sacramental table was covered with a ragged
green baize in the sere and yellow leaf, and
as worthy of being called green as the church
whitewash was of being termed white. Taken
altogether, there was a strong suggestion on
entering Lawford church of going into a cellar
without the sawdust, and wanting in the
wine ; and old Mrs. Marley, lately gone to her
rest, and over whom as a very ancient friend
Sammy Warmoth had affectionately patted

down the earth with his spade, moistening ita
little with his tears to make it stick, afterwards
building-up her grave with a mound of
the finest, most velvety turf he could cut, that
he protected with brambles from the sheep —
old Mrs. Marley, when she was schoolmistress,
always made a point iu winter of taking a
large stone bottle of hot water with her to
the church, smuggling it regularly beneath her
cloak, and pitying the four-and-twenty blue-nosed
little children, whom she led, because
only two could sit by her at a time and
warm their hands.

Humphrey Bone, the schoolmaster, also
made a point of taking a bottle to church,
but his was small, and he made occasions
for bending; his head beneath the front of the
pew and imbibing portions of its contents
through a very long turkey quill.

The church had remained in statu quo
during the Rector's stay abroad, but now that
he had returned, it was with ideas similar to

the new broom — he meant to sweep clean.
Perhaps the Eev. Eli Mallow was a little
conscience-stricken for past neglect. At all
events the Eector had now set himself to work
on a general reform, but his absence had
embittered a by no means friendly people.

Taking that great wage out of the place
year after year," said Tomlinson, one of the
townspeople, " and leaving that curate todo
all the work on eighty pounds a year ; I
haven't patience with him."

Several other fellow-townsmen expressed
their opinions that it was a shame, and
declared that they had not patience with the
parson, and the consequence was that he was
so talked over, that when he came back and set
about his work of reformation he was met at
his very first movement by a hedge of thorns
that regularly surrounded the church. Everyone
of these thorns was a prejudice which he
had to fight.

Church did very well for t' owt rector,

and always has done," was the cry ; '*' why
won't it do for he ? "

Festina lente'' said the Reverend Eli to
himself ; and he set to work slowly, cautiously,
and well, making such advance in his undertaking
that plenty of money was promised,
and he saw in the future a handsome, well-warmed
church, with all the surroundings for
reverent worship.

Poor old fellow ! " he had said to himself
as he listened to the clerk, for the old man
would utter the three first words of a response
in a shrill tenor, and then drop his voice,
nothing else being heard until it came to
the end, when to a new-comer his peculiar
*' Hup-men " was almost startling in its
strangeness.

Week week, leek ; louhhle, bubble, while''
the school-children always declared he said,
no matter what was the response ; and then,
after giving out the psalm or hymn so that no
one could hear, the poor old fellow would sing

in a shrill unmusical voice from behind a huge
pair of tortoiseshell framed spectacles, holding
his great hymn-book with both hands, and
emphasizing the words he sang by raising and
lowering the book ; turning to right and left,
singing to the people below his desk, and then
at the huge whitewashed beams of the ceiling,
before turning three parts round to send his
voice into the chancel, for the benefit of the
old women from the Bede houses who sat
there upon a very uncomfortable bench.

I dare say it is very wrong," said Lord
Artingale, who had ridden over from Gaston
one Sunday to welcome the Mallows back
to Lincolnshire, '' but much as I want to
be reverent, I really don't think T could goto
your church again, Mr. i\l allow, without
laughing in the middle of the service."

The Rector looked grave, for poor old Warmoth
was a great trouble to him, and, as maybe
gathered, he had consulted the churchwardens
on the question of the alterations,

and among other things suggested that the
old clerk should be asked to resign.

The effect we have seen, and that same day
P()rtk)ck, the farmer, went up and told the
result of his chat with the old clerk.

"It is very provoking, Mr. Portlock, very.
I want the old man to go quietly — in fact, to
resign," said the Rector. " If I send him away
the people will say that he is ill-used."

That they will, depend on 't," replied the
Churchwarden. " Our folk take a deal o'
driving."

Well, well ; what is to be done ? "

Best let things bide as they are, sir ; you
weaned do any good by trying to alter 'em."

Oh, but that is absurd, Mr. Portlock,
highly absurd. No, I regret it very much,
but he must go. There, I will see him
myself."

The Rector saw the old clerk sooner than
lie expected, for in crossing the churchyard
next day he met him going up to the church.

Poor old fellow ! ninety-threes' said the
Eector to himself, as he looked curiously at
the strange old figure tottering up the rough
cobble-stone path.

.Good morning, Warmoth," he said.
Here, give me your hand."

The old man stopped short, thumped his
stick down, and peered up fiercely.

Nay, nay, nay," he groaned, '* not so owt
as all that, mester. I can do it yet. Let
me bide, I'm right yet. Yow want to get
shut o' me — to drift me off. Yow thow^t wi'
your new ways that I wasn't good new fort'
church, but revvylootion or no revvylootion,
I stick to church as my fathers did afore me.
When I'm down their, and can how out no
more, thou nun do thy worst."

That's all put aside, Mr. Warmoth," said
the Eector, smiling. " I do want to make
improvements here, but not to that extent.
I did not want to hurt your feelings. Come,
shake hands."

"Nay; I'll not," cried the old man, fiercely,
his bearing seeming to have wonderfully
altered now. '' Thou want'st to get round
me wi' soft words, but I'll how thee off —
I'll how thee off. There ain't every servant
of t' owt church like me, and I'll how my
own unto the last."

My good old fellow, Heaven forbid that
I should be guilty of so unkind an act. You
shall stop on, Warmoth, till the last, for no
act of mine shall remove you from your post."

The old man's jaw fell, and he stepped
back, slipped, and would have fallen, but
for the Eector's hands, to which the old fellow
clung spasmodically, his face working, his
lips twitching in his efforts to speak. But
for a long time no words would come, and
then but two, twice repeated, though with
earnest emphasis —

Bless thee ! Bless thee ! " s

Then, quickly snatching his hands awgty,
the old man turned aside, leaned his trembling

arm against a tombstone which had gradually
encroached upon the path, and stood with his
head bent down, trying to recover his strength.

It was a strange contrast : the thin, sharply
featured old man, and the handsome portly
figure of the Eector, as he stood there vexed
with himself at having, as he called it, been
so weak as to give way at the first difficulty
that he had to encounter ; and he afterwards
came to the conclusion that he might just
as well have held out, for the people gave
him the credit of killing old Warmoth so as
to have his way.

'' Let me help you into the church to sit
down for a bit," he said to the trembling
old man.

Old Warmoth turned and laid one hand
upon the Eector's, gazing up in his face, and
there was a piteous smile upon his withered
lips.

I was afraid thou'd want me to go as
soon as I heard thou was coming back ;

and they said shouldst get shut o' me. But
sixty year, sir ! It would have killed me. 1
couldn't have feared to go."

Two Sundays later the congregation had
just left the church, and Portlock was going
up to the vestry, when he saw" there was
something wrong in the clerk's seat.

Why, Sammy, owt man," he cried, " what
ails "

He did not finish his broken sentence, but
tore open the door of the clerk's desk, the
Eector coins forward to where the old man
knelt in his accustomed narrow place, his
hands upon his book, his head upon his
breast, as he had knelt down after the sermon.

He's like ice," whispered the Churchwarden,
putting forth his great strength,
and lifting the old man bodily out, to hiy
him by the stove, the Rector placing a cushion
beneath his head.

The motion seemed to revive the old man
for a moment, and he opened his eyes,

staring strangely at the Rector, who held one
Land.

Then his lips moved, and in a voice hardly
above a whisper they heard him say —

Bless — thou ! — Bless — thou ! -^ those

words would — have killed me."

There was a pause, and the Churchwarden
was hastening forth to fetch help, when
there arose in the now empty church a shrill
'' AmenT

It was the old clerk's last.

CHAPTER IV.

AT LAWFORD SCHOOL.

'* Oh ! " in a loud shrill voice ; and then a
general titter.

Silence ! who was that ? "

Please, Miss, Cissy Hudson, Miss. Please,
Miss, it's Mr. Bone."

This last delivered in a chorus of shrill
voices ; and Sage Portlock turned sharply from
the semi-circle of children, one and all standing
with their toes accurately touching a thickly-chalked
line, to see a head thrust into the
schoolroom, but with the edge of the door held
closely against the neck, pressing it upon the
jamb, so that the entire body to which the
head belonged was invisible.

The head which had been thus suddenly
thrust into the schoolroom was not attractive,
the face being red and deeply lined with marks
not made by age. The eyes were dull and
watery, there was a grayish stubble of a
couple of days' growth upon the chin, and
the hair that appeared above the low brow
was rough, unkempt, and, if clean, did no
justice to the cleansing hand.

How tiresome ! '' muttered Sage Port-lock,
moving towards the door, which then
opened, and a tall man, in a very shabby
thin great-coat which reached almost to his
heels, stumped into the room.

Stumped or thumped — either word will do
to express the heavy way in which Humphrey
Bone, thirty years master of Law ford boys'
school, drew attention to the fact that he
had one leg much shorter than the other, the
difference in length being made up by a sole
of some five inches' thickness, which sole

VOL. I.

came down upon the reel brick floor like the
modified blows of a pavior's rammer.

Such a clever man ! Such a good teacher !
the Lawford people said. There was nothing
against him but a drop of drink, and this
drop of drink had kept Humphrey Bone a
poor mail, dislocated his hip in a fall upon
a dark night, when the former doctor of the
place had not discovered the exact nature of
the injury till it was too late, and the drop .
of drink in this instance had resulted in the
partaker becoming a permanent cripple.

Lawford was such a slow-moving place in
those days, that it took its principal inhabitants
close upon twenty years to decide that
a master who very often went home helplessly
intoxicated, and who had become a
hopeless moral wreck, living in a state of
squalor and debt, could not be a fitting
person to train and set an example to the
boys left in his charge. And at last, butin
the face of great opposition from the

old-fashioned party arrayed against the Ev.
Eli Mallow and his friends — the party who
reiterated the cry that Humphrey Bone was
such a clever man, wrote such a copperplate-like
hand, when his fingers were not palsied,
and measured land so well — it was decided
that Humphrey Bone should be called upon
to resign at Christmas, and Luke Eoss, the
son of the Lawford tanner, then training at
St. Chrysostom's College, London, should take
his place.

It was only natural that Sage Portlock,
as she advanced to meet Humphrey Bone,
should think of the coming days after the
holidays, when Mr. Ross, whom she had
known so well from childhood, should be
master of the adjoining school, and that very
unpleasant personage now present should cease
to trouble her with visits that were becoming
more and more distasteful and annoying.

"Morning Ink!" said Mr. Bone, shortly.
Ours like mud. How are you ? "

E 2

'' Ink, Mr. Bone ? " said the young mistress,
ignoring the husky inquiry after her health.
Yes ; one of the girls shall bring .some in."

This and the young mistress's manner
should have made Mr. Humphrey Bone retire,
but he stood still in the middle of the room,
chuckling softly ; and then, to the open-eyed
delight of the whole school, drew a goose-quill
from his breast, stripped off the plume
from one side of the shaft, and, with a very
keen knife, proceeded to cut, nick, and shape
one of the pens for which he bore a great
reputation, holding it out afterwards for the
young mistress to see.

'' That beats training, eh ? Didn't teach
you to make a pen like that at Westminster,
did they, eh ? "

'' No," said Sage, quietly ; " we always
used steel pens."

Hah — yes ! " ejaculated the old schoolmaster,
with a laugh of derision. " Steel
pens — steel teaching — steel brains — they'll

have steel machine teachers soon, who can
draw a goose like that on a black board
with a bit of chalk. Fans^h ! "

He pointed to one of a series of woodcuts
mounted on mill board and hung; against the
white-washed wall, stumped away three or
four yards, and then returned.

New ways — new theories — new machines !
Wear the old ones out and chuck 'em away —
eh ? "

I do not understand you, Mr. Bone," said
the young mistress, longing for the interview
to come to an end ; but he went on, speaking
angrily, and ignoring her words —

When old Widow Marley died, I said to
Mallow and the rest of 'em, ' Knock a hole
through the brick wall,' I said ; * make one
school of it ; mix 'em all up together, boys
and gals. Give me another ten a year, and
I'll teach the lot ; ' but they wouldn't do it.
Said they must have a trained mistress ;
and here you are."

"Yes, I am here," said Sage Portlock,
rather feebly, for she had nothing else to
say.

Only the other day you were a thin strip
of a girl. Deny it if you can ! "

'' I do not deny it, Mr. Bone," said Sage,
determining to be firm, and speaking a little
more boldly.

*'No," he continued, in his husky tones,
"you can't deny it. Then you leave Miss
Quittenton's school, and your people send you
to town for two years to be trained ; and nowhere
you are again."

Sage Portlock bowed, and looked longingly
at the door, hoping for some interruption,
but none came.

And now " beo[an the old master.

*mary Smith, take the large ink-bottle
into the boys' school," said the young mistress,
quickly ; and the girl went to the
school cupboard, took out the great wicker-covered
bottle, and was moving toward the

door, when the old master caught her by the
shoulder, and held her back.

Stop ! " he said sharply. " Take it myself.
Ha! ha!"

Sage started and coloured, for the children
were amused.

'' Ha, ha ! — Ha — ha — ha — ha — ha ! "

The old man continued his hoarse cachinnation,
ending by wiping his eyes on a washed-out
ragged old print cotton handkerchief.

"It makes me laugh," he said. "Young
Boss — him I taught to write — evenings lessons
up at his father's house. Young Luke Eoss !
warmed him up like a viper in my breast to
turn and sting me. Ha, ha, ha ! Master
here ! "

For shame, Mr. Bone," exclaimed the
young mistress, indignantly. " Mr. Eoss never
sought for the engagement. It was only after
Mr. Mallow's invitation that he accepted the
post."

Mr. Mallow's invitation, eh ? The Ev.

Eli Mallow, ell ? Better look after his sons.
Nice wild sons ! Nice old prophet he is.
Better look after his boys."

And only the other day when he was
down, young Mr. Ross said that he was doubtful
about taking the post, and thought of
declining it after all."

Told you so, eh ? Ha— ha— ha ! Not
he. Sweet-hearting, eh ? Ha — ha — ha ! Very
well, when he comes, knock a hole through
the wall, and make one school of it, eh ? Get
married. Fine thing for the school. Faugh ! "

Sage Portlock's face was now scarlet, and
she was about to utter some indignant remonstrance
against the old man's words, when,
to her intense relief, he took the ink-bottle
roughly from the girl's hand, and stumped
with it to the door.

Before he reached it, however, there was a
sharp rap. It was opened, the latch rattling
viciously, and a common-looking woman, whose
face told its own tale that its owner had been

working herself up ready for the task in hand,
entered, dragging behind her a freshly-washed
girl of eleven or twelve, whose face bore the
marks of recent tears.

'^ Youkem here's exclaimed the woman,
dragging in the unwilling child, and finishing
by giving her a rough shake. " Youkem here,
and I'll see as you're righted. Miss."

To Sage Portlock's great disgust, instead.
of the old. schoolmaster passing through the
open door, he carefully closed it behind the
woman, set the ink-bottle down upon a form,
and, taking out his knife, began to remake the
pen, well attend the while to what went on.

'* Now, Miss, if you please," said, the woman,
'^ I want to know, why my girl was kep' in
yesterday and punished. I told my master
last night I'd. come on wi' her this morning,
and see her righted ; and, if you please, I
want to know what she's done."

I am sorry to say, Mrs. Searby "

began the young mistress.

"Ob, you needn't-be sorry, Miss. Strike
u[) and down's my motto. I want to know
what my 'Elizabeth's done. There's no getting
her to school nowadays. When Mrs. Marley
was alive all the gals loved to come to school,
but now they hates it, and all the noo-fangled
ways."

As the woman spoke, she darted a glance
at the old schoolmaster, who chuckled softly,
and shook his head.

If you will allow me to speak " began

the young mistress.

Oh, lor', yes. Miss, I'll allow yer to speak.
I don't forget my position. I'm only a humble
woman, I am ; but I says to my master only
last night, the trouble there is to get them
gals to school now is orful. When ]airs. Marley
was alive "

Your daughter, Mrs. Searbv " bes^nn

the young mistress, again.

Yes, Miss, my daughter went to Mrs.
Marley, she did, and there was never no

trouble with the gal then. As I said to Mrs.
Marley, I said, all she wants is properly putting
forward, that's all she wants ; for there
couldn't be a quicker gal wi' her book ; but
nowadays there's no getting' of her to come :
and when she do come she don't larn a bit,
with the noo-fangled ways, and getting up and
sitting down, and holding' out their hands, and
being drilled, and stood out, and kep' in for
doing nowt. I say it isn't fair to a child, for
as I said to Mrs. Marley, I said, and she said
to me, all my gal wanted was putting forward,
for a quicker gal with her book there never
was, and now there's no getting of her to
school of a morning, and never no getting her
back when she does come ; and the boys as
goes to Mr. Bone a loving their master and
their books, and a getting on wonderful. And
now, if you please, Miss," said the woman,
with a derisive curtsey, and so far run down
that she had to keep taking up the tantalizing
iteration of uneducated people in a fit of

temper, " I want to know, if you please, what
mv gal has clone."

Your daughter was very rude, very inattentive,
refused to learn the lesson I set, and
incited some of the older girls to insubordination,
Mrs. Searby, so that I was compelled,
most reluctantly, to punish her as an example."

The old master went on carving the quill to
pieces, making and remaking it,- till the amount
of useful pen was getting very short, chuckling
the while, and evidently enjoying the
side wise compliments directed at him and his
old system by the irate woman.

My gal not behaving herself! Why, she's
as good in school as her brothers is. She's the
best o' gals at home ; and poor old Mrs. Marley,
who used to keep the school here, said as my
gal was one of the best behaved and nicest
children she ever see."

Then she must have altered very much
in her opinion, Mrs. Searby," said a quiet,
deep, rich voice ; and the woman and the old

schoolmaster started to see the Rector stancliDg
in the open door. " Mrs. Marley consulted
me several times upon the advisability of
expelling your child from the school, and, for
my part, I must say that she is the most
tiresome girl that attends the Sunday
classes."

'* My gracious, sir ! " exclaimed the woman,
curtseying humbly.

"Leave her a little more to Miss Portlock
here, and don't interfere," continued the Rector.
Elizabeth Searby, you had better go to your
class. Mr. Bone, I have been waiting in the
boys' school to see you. Mrs. Searby 's two
sons are heading a sort of insurrection there,
and the boys, when I went in, were pelting
each other with pieces of coke from the
stove."

Let 'em," said Humphrey Bone, snapping
his fingers in defiance, as Miss Elizabeth Searby
took the opportunity of her elders' backs being
turned to put out her tongue at them, as if for

medical inspection, and then sought her class,
while her mother beat a hasty retreat from the
Rector s presence.

Let 'em ! " said Humphrey Bone again ;
I've done with 'em all. I defy you all. I've
worked for this school," he cried, raising his
voice, " for thirty years, and trained boys to
make good men. As for you, Rev. Eli Mallow,
head of the parish as you call yourself, you
haven't."

"Don't be foolish, Humphrey Bone," said
the Rector, with a grave smile. " Don't try
to quarrel about the past. What I did was
as my duty ; and when you arc calm you
must know that it was inevitable. Forbearance
has its limits."

Quarrel ! Forbearance ! " cried the old
schoolmaster, furiously. " How have you
done your duty ? I'm not afraid of you ; you
shan't kill me like you did old Warmoth ; and
I'll speak now."

"My duty ? Not so well as I should," said

the old clergyman, sadly. " We all have onr
reo-rets, Bone, for the Last."

"Yes, for what you've neglected," cried the
master, furiously. 'you're not pitched out
of your living in your old age ; I am. T
trained my boys well. How about the training
of yours, Eev. Eli — old prophet ? How
about your boys ? Say, if you can, they are
not a disgrace."

The old clergyman started as if he had been
stung ; his handsome, florid face turned deadly
pale, but the next moment the hot flush of indignation
suffused his countenance, mounting-right
up amongst the roots of his silver hair.

How dare " he began; but he checked

himself by an effort, and the colour faded
slowly from his face.

Bone," he said, sadly, " you are angry,

• and in no fit state, mental and bodily, to talk

about these matters. I will forget what you

have just said. Now, back to your school ;

but before you go, let me tell you that I am

not the enemy you seem to think. I liavo
here," he said, drawing a blue envelope from
his breast, " a list of contributions, which I
am getting towards a testimonial to our old
schoolmaster for his long services.* I hope to
make it reach a handsome sum."

Humphrey Bone's lips were parted to speak,
but these words disarmed him, and, muttering
and shaking his head, he turned and left the
place.

'' Poor fellow ! " said the Rector, calmly.
I fear that at times he hardly knows what
he says."

Sao^e Portlock looked at him wonderingly
for a few moments, and he stood gazing at her,
his countenance growing less troubled the
while ; and no wonder, for Sage Portlock's
was a pleasant face. She was not handsome,
but, at the same time, she was far from plain ; •
and there was something attractive about her
broad forehead, with its luxuriant, smoothly -
braided hair crossing each temple — for young

ladies in those days had not taken to either
cutting their hair short, or to wearing fringes
or hirsute hysterics on their fronts. There
was a pleasant regularity in her by no means
classical features ; her eyes were large and
winning, and her well-cut mouth, if too large
according to an artist's ideal, curved pleasantly,
and displayed on parting the whitest of teeth.

"Well, Miss Portlock," said the Eector,
smiling, " what a bad mistress you must be ! "

Indeed, sir," she exclaimed, colouring, " I
try very hard to "

Of course — of course," he said, laughing,
as he walked up the schoolroom by her side.
My dear child, it is the old story."

But was Mrs. Marley so good a mistress,
sir ? " asked Sage, eagerly.

My dear Miss Portlock, she was one of
the most amiable of old women ; but it was
quite shocking to see the state of the school.
Steeped in ignorance ' is about the best
description I can give you of its condition.

VOL. I. F

Such encounters as you have had this morning
fall of necessity to the lot you have embraced,
and, as you see, one of my doth is not exempt
from such troubles."

The old man started and frowned, for just
then the door was once more opened in reply
to a summons, and the gentleman who had
troubled Polly entered the school, took off his
hat politely to the mistress, replaced it, and
then, apparently feeling that he had done
wrong, took it off once more.

I heard you had come to the school," he
said, "and I thought I would follow you.'

You might have known, Cyril, that I
should not be long," said the Eector coldly.
'* Good morning. Miss Portlock," and without
another word he went to the door, pausing to
hold it open while the new-comer passed out,
saluting the mistress as he did so ; and then
Sage Portlock was left to continue her task.

CHAPTEE V.

ONE OF THE BOYS.

''Mr. Mallow seemed displeased with Mr.
Cyril," thought Sage Portlock, as she went
on with her duties. " He must have done
something to annoy his father."

Her thoughts left the subject the next
moment, as she casually glanced at the window,
through which the sun was streaming, for it
was one of those glorious days when the dying
year seems to flicker up, as it were, into a
hectic glow, and for the time being it seems
as if summer has come aorain.

In the schoolroom there was the busy hum
of some sixty girls, reading, repeating, answering
questions, and keeping up that eternal
whispering which it is so hard to check, and

F 2

the sun's rays as they streamed across the
room made broad, bold bars full of dancing
dust. Outside there was the pleasant country,
and, in spite of herself, the thoughts of the
young mistress strayed away a couple of miles
to her home, where on such a day she knew
that they would be busy gathering the late
apples, those great, red-streaked fellows, which
would be laid in the rack and covered with
straw till Christmas. The great baking-pear
tree, too, would be yielding its bushels of
heavy hard fruit, and the big medlar tree
down by the gate — she seemed to see it, as
she thought — would be one blaze of orange
and red and russet gold.

It would be delicious, she thought, to run
home at once instead of being busy there ;
but the next moment a calm, satisfied smile
came across her face, as she recalled the loner
tedious days she had passed the year before
at Westminster, and began thinking and wondering
about some one else.

I wonder how he is getting on ? " she
thought ; " and whether he will get one of the
highest certificates. He tries so hard, I should
think it is almost certain."

There was a pause here — a busy pause,
during which a change of duty was instituted
in two or three classes ; but Sage Por dock's
thoughts went back soon after, in spite of
herself, to the progress of Luke Eoss at the
London training; college.

As she thought her cheeks reddened slightly,
and she could not help recalling the spiteful
words of the old master ; and, as thoughts
will, hers bounded on ahead faster and faster,
till in effect she did see the day when her old
friend and companion would be settled at
Lawford, and perhaps a closer connection than
that of master and mistress of the schools have
come to pass.

Meanwhile the look of displeasure upon
the Rev. Eli Mallow's countenance had grown
deeper and more marked as he walked away

from the school with his son, and angry
words had taken place.

Why, what nonsense, father ! " exclaimed
the young man. " I heard that you had just
entered the schoolroom, and I followed to
speak to you, that's all ; and here you turn
rusty about it. Hang it all, a fellow comes
home for a little peace, and the place is made
miserable."

'* By you, Cyril," retorted his father, sharply.
Home is a calm and peaceful place till you
come back, and then — I grieve to say it —
trouble is sure to begin."

'' Why, what have I done now ? "

^' Done ? " said his father, bitterly, as they
walked up the long town street. " Why,
given up another chance in life. Here, at
the expense of a thousand pounds, you are
started upon this Australian expedition, to
become a settler, but at the end of two years
you are back home, with the money gone,
and as unsettled as ever."

"" Well, we had all that over last night and
the night before. You need not bring it up
again. That is not why you have turned
rusty," said the young man, sulkily.

I think I will ask you to speak respectfully
to roe, Cyril," said his father, with
dignity.

Respectfully ! " said Cyril, with a mocking
laugh. " Why, I'm behaving wonderfully.
If I had stayed out at the sheep farm for
another year I should have been a perfect
boor."

And I must request, finally, that you
interfere no more in any of the parish
matters."

*' Well, who has interfered, father ? "

To put it plainly, then, my boy, I insist
upon your keeping away from that school."

And for goodness* sake, father, why ? "

'^ I will tell you," said the old clergyman,
with no small show of excitement. " I have
been reviled this morning, and accused of

being wanting in duty, especially in the
management of my sons."

'who dared to be so insolent? " cried the
young man.

I was compared to Eli of old, my boy ;
and I fear only too justly."

Let's see ; Eli's sons were very naughty
boys, weren't they ? " said the young man,
laughing.

Silence, sir ! " cried his father, flushing ;
"these are not matters for your idle jests. I
acknowledge that, for your poor mother's
sake, I have given way, and been weak and
indulgent to the boy she, poor invalid, has
ever worshipped ; but the time has come now
for me to make a stand, ere worse befall our
house."

Why, father, what do you mean ? "

"This, my son," cried the old clergyman,
sternly. "You left home two years ago,
wild and fio;htinor against restraint. You have
come back now rougher in your ways "

'* No wonder. You should have led such a
life as I have amongst sheep farmers and roughs,
and you wouldn't wonder at my ways."

And far less amenable to discipline."

Why, what do you want, father ? " cried
the young man, impatiently.

Strict obedience in all things, but more
especially in those where any lapse might
reflect upon my conduct as the clergyman
of this parish."

Why, of course, father — what do you
suppose a fellow is going to do ? "

"Do you think I'm blind, Cyril? " said his
father, sternly.

'' Not I, father. Why do you ask ? "

Answer me this question. Why did you
follow me to the school ? "

To have a chat with you. It was precious
dull at home."

'every. It must be," said the old clergyman,
ironically. " You have been away
from home two years, and after a few

days' return, its calm and peaceful life is
found dull."

'^ Well, so it is ; plaguy dull."

Your mother has been confined to her
couch ever since Cynthia was born, Cyril.
I have never yet heard her complain of home
being dull, or repine at her lot."

Ah, well, I know all that ! Poor
mamma ! " exclaimed the young man.

And you make that pitiful excuse to me,
Cyril," cried his father : " you stoop to deceit
already."

Who does ? " cried the young man fiercely.

'• You do, sir, and I tell you this shall not
be. Sage Portlock is a pure, sweet-minded
girl, in whom both your sisters and I take
the greatest interest; and I tell you that, if
not engaged, there is already a very great
intimacy existing between her and Luke Ross."

"Phew!" whistled Cyril. "What, that
young prig of a fellow ! I say, father, he's
turning schoolmaster, isn't he ? "

"It is settled that he shall succeed Mr.
Bone as soon as he has finished his training
said Mr. Mallow, quietly.

Poor old Bone ! — dry Bone, as we used to
call him, because he was such a thirsty soul.
ind so Luke Koss is to be the new man,
eh ? I congratulate Lawford," he added, with
a sneer.

You have never liked Luke Eoss since
he gave you so sound a thrashing'' said his
father, quietly.

"He? Thrash me ? Absurd, father ! Pooh I
the fellow is beneath my notice."

I think we understand each other now,"
said Mr. Mallow, with quiet firmness. " While
you stay here, Cyril, there is to be no trifling
with any one. You can share our home for
the present — that is, until you obtain some
engagement."

Oh, hang engagements ! " cried the young
man, impatiently. " You have plenty of
money, father, both in your own right and

mamma s. Why should I be constantly driven
from home to some menial work ? "

*' Because it is time that your spoiled life
of indulgence should cease. There is nothing
degrading in work ; it is idleness that
degrades."

Oh, yes ; you've lectured me enough about
that," said the young man, rudely.

'sand you may take it for granted that
as soon as an opening can be made for
you "

'' Opening wanted for a pushing young
man," cried Cyril, mockingly.

I shall ask you to leave home and try todo
your duty in this busy world."

"Thanks, father," said the young man,
roughly. " What am I to be ? "

"Three years ago I felt that I was doing
wrong in keeping you in idleness at home."

Idle ? Why, I was always busy, father."

"Yes — hunting, shooting:, fishing, and the
like ; but you did not stop there."

Oil, nonsense ! "

To-day I feel certain that I should be
doing a great injustice to the parish — to your
mother — to your sisters "

•' Any one else ? " said the young man,
mockingly.

To you," replied his father, sternly.

Any one else ? "

And to Miss Portlock and Luke Ross by
allowing you to stay here."

They had reached the rectory, and the
Eev. Eli Mallow, who had paused with one
hand upon the oaken bar to finish his sentence,
now pushed open the quaintly-made
gate, held it for a moment as if for his son to
follow ; but as he did not, the Rector allowed
it to close, and, placing his hands behind him,
walked slowly up the well-kept gravel walk,
too intent upon his thoughts to give heed to
his favourite flowers, or to enter the conservatory,
according to his custom, on his way to
his own snug room, whose walls were well

stored with works on botany and his favourite
pursuit, gardening.

Cyril Mallow gave his long moustache a tug
as he watched his father's bent back till it
disappeared amongst the choice shrubs and
evergreens ; then, taking out his cigar-case,
he selected one from its contents, bit off the
end viciously, and there was the petulance of
a spoiled child in his action as he struck one
of the old-fashioned Hat fusees upon the rough
oaken gate-post till he had torn the match to
razors without obtaining a lio^ht, another and another
f olio win o; before he could ignite his cigar.

Confound the place ! " he exclaimed. " It's
as dull as ditch water. Pretty state of affairs,
indeed ! One can't look at a soul without
being jerked up short. Luke Ross, eh ? I'd
like to "

He did not say what, but he gave his teeth
a grind, and, thrusting his hands deep down
into his pockets, he walked on towards the
fields beyond the little town.

I declare everybody's hard on me," he said
aloud. " Just because I'm a bit unlucky and
want change. Here's the governor rolling inriches,
and might make me a handsome allowance,
and yet I'm always to be driven out into
the world. Hanged if it isn't too bad."

He leaped over a stile and strolled a little
way on across a field, beyond which was a
patch of woodland, all aglow with the rich
tints of autumn, but Cyril Mallow saw them,
not, his thoughts being elsewhere.

I won't stand it," he cried suddenly, ashe
stopped short. " A man can't always be
in leading-strings, and I'm old enough now,
surely, to strike for my liberty, and "

His hand went involuntarily to his vest
pocket, from which he drew a delicately-made
lady's gold watch, whose presence was
accounted for by the fact that Cyril's own
stout gold watch had passed into the hands
of a station shepherd out at a place called
Bidgeewoomba, in Queensland, and Cyril's

indulgent mother had insisted upon his using
hers until it was replaced.

Beastly dull place ! " he muttered, gazing
at the watch. ** It's of no use to go across to
the ford ; ' our master ' will be coming in to
dinner. Little fool ! why did she go and
marry that great oaf '? "

He turned the watch over and over, laughing
unpleasantly.

Pretty Polly ! " he said out aloud, but,
ended by opening and snapping to the back
of the watch.

Five minutes to twelve," he exclaimed,
involuntarily. " The children will be coming
out of school directly."

He made a sharp movement in the direction
of the town — stopped short — went on again —
stopped to think of the words he had had
with his father, and then, with an impatient
"pish!" thrust his hands into his pockets,
and walked quickly in the direction that he
knew Sage Portlock would take on leaving

the school, bent on the mission of causing
misery and dissension between two young
people just making their first start in life,
and sowing the seed of certain weeds that
would spring up to the overtopping of much
goodly grain.

He paused again, hesitating as he neared
the rectory gates, and for a moment he
seemed as if he would enter.

But just then the church clock struck
twelve, and the deep-toned bell, as it slowly
gave forth, one by one, the tale of strokes
announcing that the day had climbed to its
greatest height, seemed to bring before Cyril
Mallow the scene of the schoolgirls racing-out,
panting and eager, while Sage Portlock
was putting on that natty little hat and long-silk
scarf she wore when going to and fro.

Oh, what nonsense ! " ejaculated Cyril.
What harm ? Perhaps I shan't see her
after all."

He strode off hastily back towards the

VOL. I. G

town, for it was now five minutes past
twelve, and just at this time Sage was locking
the school door, and enjoying the fresh
air, as she thought of Luke Koss with a
pleasant little smile upon her lip, and a
ruddy tint on the cheek ; while just a hundred
and twenty miles away Luke Eoss had
shouldered a spade on his way to the great
garden for the hour's manual labour prescribed
by the rules of the training school ; and,
oddly enough, he was not thinking of the
piece of earth he was about, in company
with many more, to dig, but of Sage Portlock,
and the pleasant days when he should be
down in the country once again.

CHAPTER VI.

MAGISTERIAL FUNCTIONS.

People had always said that the Rev. Eli
Mallow was a most fortunate man, but somehow
fate gave him his share of reverses. He
had been born with the customary number
of bones in his vertebra, wonderfully joined
together after Dame Nature's regular custom
and good style of workmanship, with suitable
muscle and nerve to give proper pliability.
The nurse who used to wash and wipe and
then powder his delicate young skin considered
that he was a beautiful baby, and
certainly he had grown up into a very handsome
man, an ornament, with his portly form
and gray head, to the county bench, to his

G 2

seat on which he was warmly welcomed back
by his neighbours, for however unpopular he
might be in the dissent-loving town of Lawford,
the Rev. Eli Mallow was a favourite in
his part of the county.

The late Lord Artingale had always been
one of the loudest in his praise.

He is a man of breed, sir," his lordship
would say. " There's blood and bone in the
man. I wish we had more clergymen of his
kind. There'd be less poaching in the country,
I can tell you, and fewer empty bags."

For the Rev. Eli Mallow worked by rule,
that is to say, by law. Secular and ecclesiastical
law were to be obeyed to the letter, and
he was most exacting in carrying out what
he considered to be his mission, with the
result that, however well he stood in favour
with his friends, his popularity did not
increase.

He was not a bad man, for he was strictly
moral and self-denying, fairly charitable, had

prayers morning and evening, always walked
to church on Sundays, kept a good table,
and was proud of having the best horses in
the neighbourhood. He did his duty according
to his light, but that light was rather a
small one, and it illumined a very narrow
part of the great book of life. There were
certain things which he considered duties,
and his stern obedience to cut-and-dried law,
rule, and regulation made him seem harsher
than he really was.

During his absence from Langford something
approaching to economy had been
practised, and his wife's and his own property
had been nursed ; but now the family
had returned there was no sign of saving,
for, in addition to being a clergyman, the
Rector devoted himself largely to the carrying
out of what he called his role as a country
gentleman, and at whatever cost to his pocket
and general strain upon the property, this
he did well as a rule. Now, for reasons of

his own relating to his two daughters, he
was launching out to an extent that made
a second visit to the Continent a very probable
matter before many years were past.

Breakfast was over at the rectory. There
had been words between master and Mr. Cyril,
the butler said, and master had been very
angry, but, as was usually the case, Mr. Cyril
had come off victorious ; and now, as it was
market-day at Lawford, the bays were at the
door, champing their bits, the butler and footman
were in the hall waiting, and punctual
to the moment the young ladies came hurrying
down the oak staircase just as the Rev.
Eli received his gloves from the butler and
put them on, the domestic waiting to hand
him his hat. This was carefully placed
upon his head, and then there was a little
ceremony gone through of putting on the
glossy black overcoat, as if it where some
sacred garment.

The Kev. Eli did justice to his clothes, looking

a thoroughly noble specimen of his class,
and once ready he unbent a little and smiled
at his pretty, ladylike daughters, whom he
followed down to the handsome barouche,
which it had always been a custom to have
out on bench days, the appearance of the
stylish turn-out lending no little eclat to the
magisterial proceedings.

It was certainly not a mile and a half to
the market-place, but though that distance
might be traversed again and again upon
ordinary days, this was out of the question
when the magistrates were about to sit.

So the steps were rattled down, the young
ladies handed in, Cyril Mallow, with a cigar
in his mouth, watching the proceedings from
his bed-room window. The Kev. Eli followed
and took his seat with dignity ; the steps
were closed, the door shut, the footman
mounted to the box beside the coachman,
both stretched their legs out rigidly, and set
their backs as straight as their master's, and

away the carriage spun, through the avenue,
and out at the lodge gates, where the gardener's
wife was ready to drop a curtsey
and close them afterwards, and then away
through the lanes by the longest way round,
so as to pass Portlock's farm and enter
Lawford by the London road.

Market-day was a busy day at Lawford,
and the ostler at the King's Head had his
hands full attending to the gigs of the
farmers and the carts of the clergy and
gentry round.

The word " cart " seems more suggestive of
the vehicle of the tradesman ; but it was the
custom around Lawford for the clergy to use
a capacious kind of spring cart, neatly painted
and padded within, but in other respects
built exactly on the model of an ordinary
butcher's or grocer's trap, save that it had a
door and step behind for access to the back
seats, while, below the door, painted in regular
tradesman style for the evasion of tax, would

be, in thin white letters, the owner's name
and address, as in the case of the vicar of
Slowly, whose cart was lettered —

"Arthur Smith, Clerk, Slowly."

There were several such carts in the inn
yard on this particular morning, for the ladies
of the clerical families generally shopped on
market-days, and fetched the magazines from
the bookseller's if it was near the first of the
month.

The farmers' wives and daughters, too, put
in a pretty good appearance with their egg
and butter baskets, which were carried in
good old style upon the woman's arm, irrespective
of the fact that she was probably
wearing a velvet jacket, and had ostrich
feathers in her bonnet.

Tomlinson, the draper, was answerable for
the show, and he used to boast that the
Eector might preach as he liked against
finery ; his shop-window could preach a far

more powerful sermon in silence, especially
with bonnets for a text.

Some of the farmers had protested a little
against the love of show evinced by their
wives and daughters, but in vain. The
weaker vessels said that the egg and butter
money was their own to spend as they
pleased, and they always had something nice
to show for their outlay, which was more
than the husbands and fathers, who stayed
at the King's Head so long after the market
ordinary, could say.

The Eev. Eli Mallow was dropped at the
town-hall, where a pretty good group of
people were assembled. There were the
rustic policemen from the various outlying
villages and a couple of Lord Artingale's
keepers in waiting ready to touch their hats.
Then the ladies went off in the carriage
to make a few calls before returning topick
up papa after the magistrates' sitting
was over.

The usual country town cases : Matthew
Toiling had been drunk and riotous again ;
James Jellicoe had been trespassing in search
of rabbits ; Martha Madden had assaulted
Elizabeth Snowball, and had said, so it was
sifted out after a great deal of volubility, that
she would "do for her" — what she would do
for her not stated ; a diminutive being, a
stranger, who gave his name as Tompkins, had
torn up his clothes at the workhouse, and now
appeared, to the great delight of the spectators,
in a peculiar costume much resembling a sack ;
another assault case arising out of the fact
that Mrs. Stockade had "called " Mrs. Stivvison,
spelled Stockton and Stevenson, — with the
result that their lawful protectors had been
dragged into the quarrel, and " Jack Stivvison
had 'leathered' Jem Stockade."

Upon these urgent cases the bench of magistrates,
consisting of the Eev. Eli Mallow,
chairman, the Eev. Arthur Smith, Sir Joshua
St. Henry, and the Eevds. Thomas Sampson,

James Lawrence Barton, and Onesimus ,
solemnly adjudicated.

Then came the important case of the day ;
two men, who gave the names of Robert
Thomas and Jock Morrison, were placed at
the table.

The first was a miserable, dirty looking
object, who seemed to have made a vow somewhere
or another never to wash, shave, or
sleep in anything but hay and straw, some
of which was sticking still in his tangled hair ;
the other was a different breed of rouo^h.

Rough, certainly, a spectator who had
judged the two idlers would have said ; but
he was decidedly a country rough, and did
not belong to town. His big, burly look and
length of limb indicated a man of orient
strength ; at least six feet high, his chest was
deep and broad, and in his brown, half gipsy-looking
face, liberally clothed with the darkest
of dark-brown beards, there shone a pair of
fierce dark eyes. Scraped and sand-papered

down, and clothed in brown velveteen, with
cord trousers and brown leather gaiters, he
would have made a gamekeeper of whose
appearance any country magnate might have
been proud. As it was, his appearance before
the country bench of magistrates was enough
to condemn him for poaching.
• There was something of the keeper, too, in
his appearance, for he had on a well-worn
velveteen coat and low soft hat, but his big,
soft hands told the tale of what he was — a
ne'er-do-well, who looked upon life as a career
in which no man was bound to work.

Such was Jock Morrison.

The case was plain against them, and they
knew that they would have to suffer, for
Jock was pretty well known for these affairs.
Upon former occasions his brother Tom, the
wheelwright, had paid guineas to Mr. Ridley,
the Lawford attorney, to defend him, but there
were bounds to brotherly help.

I can't do it for ever," Tom Morrison had

said to his young wife. " I've give Jock every
chance I could ; now he must take care of
himself."

Big Jock Morrison looked perfectly able todo
that, as he now stood with his hands in
his pockets, staring about him in a cool defiant
way. It seemed that he had been warned off
Lord Artingale's ground several times, but
had been too cunning for the keepers, and
had only been taken red-handed the previous
day, very early in the morning, so evidence
showed ; and he and his companion had upon
them a hare, a rabbit, and a couple of
pheasants, beside some wire snares and a
little rusty single-barrelled gun, whose barrel
unscrewed into two pieces, and which, so the
head-keeper deposed, was detached from the
stock and stowed away in the inner pocket of
the big prisoner's coat.

Gun, powder-flask, tin measure, and bag of
shot, with game, placed upon the table.

And what did the prisoners say when you

came upon them by — where did you say,
keeper ? " said one magistrate.

Eunby Spinney, Sir Joshua, just where the
Greenest lane crosses the long coppice. Sir
Joshua."

And what did the prisoners say ? " said
the chairman stiffly.

Said they was blackberries, Sir."

Oh ! " said the chairman, and he appeared
so stern that no one dared laugh, though a
young rustic-looking policeman at whom Jock
Morrison winked turned red in the face with
his efforts to prevent an explosion.

Did they make any — er — er — resistance,
keeper ? " said the chairman.

"The big prisoner, sir, said he'd smash my
head if I interfered with him."

Dear me ! A very desperate character,"
said Sir Joshua. " And did he ? "

No, Sir Joshua, we was too many for him.
There was me, Smith, Duggan, and the two
pleecemen, so they give in."

«

And so on, and so on.

Had the prisoners anything to say in
their defence ?

The dirty man had not, Jock Morrison had.
Lookye here : he didn't take the game,
shouldn't ha' taken it, only they found' 'em
all lying aside the road. It was a casement
o' the keeper's, that's what it was. They was
a pickin' blackberries, that's what him and
his mate was a coin' of, and as soon as the
'ops was ready they was a going down south
to pick 'ops."

The magistrates' clerk, the principal solicitor
in the town, smiled, and said he was
afraid they would miss the hop-picking that
season, as it was over.

There was a short conference on the bench,
and then the Kev. Eli Mallow sentenced the
prisoners to three months' imprisonment, and
told them it was very fortunate for them that
they had not resisted the law.

'' You ain't going to quod us for three

months along o' them birds and that hare, are
you ? " said Jock Morrison.

Take them away, policeman."

Hold hard a moment," said the big fellow,
so fiercely that the sergeant present drew back.
** Look here, parsons, you'll spoil our hop-picking."


Take them away, constable," said the Kev.
Eli. "The next case."

Hold hard, d'ye hear ! " cried the big
ruffian, in a voice of thunder. " I repose,
parson," he continued, addressing the chairman,
" if I say much to you, I shall get it laid
on thicker."

My good fellow," said the Eev. Eli, " you
have been most leniently dealt with. I am
sorry for you on account of your brother, a
most respectable man, who has always set you
an admirable example, and "

"I say," exclaimed Jock, 'this ain't clutch,
is it ? "

VOL. I. H

There was a titter here, Jut the chairman
continued : —

I will say no more, as you seem in so
hardened a frame of mind, only that if
you are violent you may be committed for
trial'

All right," said the great fellow, between
his getting teeth ; " I don't say no more, only
all right : come along, matey ; we can do
the three months easy."

There was a bit of a bustle, and the prisoners
were taken off. The rest of the cases were
despatched. The carriage called for the chairman,
and on the way back it passed . the
police cart, with the sergeant giving the two
poaching prisoners a ride, but each man had
his ankle chained to a big ring in the
bottom of the vehicle, where they sat face
to face, and the sergeant and his man were
driving the blackberry pickers to the county

gaol.

What a dreadful-looking man ! " said Julia,

as in passing Jock Morrison ironically touched
his soft felt hat.

"Yes, my dear — poachers," said the Kev.
Eli calmly, as one who felt that he had
done his duty to society, and never for a
moment dreaming that he had been stirring
Fate to play him another bitter turn.

H 2

CHAPTER VII.

Polly SURPRISE.

There was a dark shadow over Polly
Morrison's mind, and she started and shivered
at every step when her husband was away at
work, but only to brighten up when the great
sturdy fellow came in, smelling of wood, and
ready to crush her in his arms with one of
his bear-like hugs.

Polly had been furtively gazing from the
window several times on the afternoon of that
market-day, and turned hot and cold as she
had heard steps which might be those of someone
coming there ; but the cloud passed away
in the sunshine of Tom Morrison's happy
smile, now that he had come in, and she felt,
as she expressed it, ^' oh ! so safe."

There, let me go, do, Tom," she cried,
merrily. "Oh, what a great strong, rough
fellow you are ! "

No, no ; stop a minute," he said here.
I oughtn't to be smiling, for Fve just heard
something, Polly''

Heard something, Tom ! " she faltered, and
she turned white with dread, and shrank away.

Here, I say," he cried, " you must get up
your strength, lass. Why, what a shivering
little thing thou art ! "

"You — you frightened me, Tom," she
gasped.

"Frightened you ? There, there, it's nothing
to frighten thee. I have just heard about
Jock."

Oh ! about Jock," cried Polly, drawing a
breath full of relief. " I hope he has got off."

Well, no, my lass, he hasn't, and I'm
sorry and I'm not sorry, if thou canst understand
that. I'm sorry Jock is to be punished,
and I'm not sorry if it will do him good.

Ain't you ashamed of having a husband with
such a bad brother ? "

Ashamed ! Oh, Tom ! " she cried, thro win cr
her arms about his neck.

'' Well, if you are not, I am," said Tom,
sadly; "and I can't help thinking that if old
Humphrey Bone had done his duty better by
us, Jock would have turned out a different
man."

^' But tell me, Tom, are they going to do
anything dreadful to him ? "

Three months on bread and water, my
lass," said Tom Morrison, — " bread of repentance
and water of repentance ; and I hope
they'll do him good, but I'm afraid when
lie comes out he'll be after the hares and
pheasants again, and I'm always in a fret lest
he should get into a fight with the keepers.
But there, my lass, I can't help it. I'd give
him a share of the business if he'd take to it,
but he weaned. I shan't fret, and if people like
to look down on me about it, they may."

"But they don't, Tom, dear," cried Polly,
with her face all in dimples, the great trouble
of her life forgotten for the time. " I've got
such a surprise for you."

Surprise for me, lass ? What is it ? A
custard for tea ? "

No, no ; what a boy you are to eat!" cried
Polly, merrily.

Just you come and smell sawdust all
day, and see if you don't eat," cried Tom.
Here, what is it ?"

Oh, you must wait. There, what a shame !
and you haven't kissed baby."

She ran out to fetch the baby and hold it
up to him to be kissed, while she looked at
him with all a young mother's pride in the
little one, of which the great sturdy fellow
had grown so fond.

*' It makes me so happy, Tom," she said,
with the tears in her eyes.

Happy, does it, lass ? "

Oh, yes. So — so happy," she cried,

nestling to bim with her baby in her arms, and
sighing with her sense of safety and content,
as the strong muscles held her to the broad
breast. " I was afraid, Tom, that you might
not care for it — that you would think it a
trouble, and — and "

That you were a silly little wife, and
full of foolish fancies," he cried, kissing her
tenderly.

"Yes, yes, Tom, I was," she cried, smiling
up at him through her tears. "But come —
your tea. Here, Budge."

Budge had been a baby herself once — a
workhouse baby — and she looked it still, at
fourteen. Not a thin starveling, but a sturdy
workhouse baby, who had thriven and grown
strong on simple oatmeal fare. Budge was
stout and rosy, and daily putting on flesh at
Tom Morrison's cottage, where her duty was
to *' help missus, and ness the bairn."

But nearly always in Polly's sight ; for the
first ba])y was too sacred a treasure in that

cottage home to be trusted to any hands for
long.

She was a good girl, though, was Budge ;
her two faults prominent being that when
she cried she howled — terribly, and that " the
way " — to use Tom Morrison's words — " she
punished a quartern loaf was a sight to see."

Budge, fat, red-faced, and round-eyed, with
her hair cut square at the ends so that it
wouldn't stay tucked behind her ears, but kept
coming down over her eyes, came running to
take baby, and was soon planted on a three-legged
stool on the clean, red-tiled floor, where
she began shaking her head — and hair — over
the baby, like a dark brown mop, making the
little eyes stare up at it wonderingly ; and
now and then a faint, rippling smile played
round the lips, and brightened the eyes, to
Budge's great delight.

For just then Budge was hard pressed.
Workhouse matron teaching had taught her
that when she went out to service it would

be rude to stare at people when they were
eating ; and now there was the pouring out
of tea, and spreading of butter, and cutting
of bread and bacon going on in a way that
was perfectly maddening to a hungry young
stomach, especially if that stomach happened
to be large, and its owner growing.

Budge's stomach was large, and Budge was
growing, so she was hard pressed : and do
what she would, she could not keep her eyes
on the baby, for, by a kind of attraction, they
would wander to the tea-table, and that loaf
upon which Tom Morrison was spreading a
thick coating of yellow butter, prior to hacking
off a slice.

Poor Budge's eyes dilated with wonder and
joy as, when the slice was cut off, nearly two
inches thick, Tom stuck his knife into it, and
held the mass out to her, with —

sphere, lass, you look hungry. Tuck that
away."

Budge would have made a bob, but doing

so would have thrown the baby on the floor ;
so she contented herself with saying " Thanks,
sir," and proceeded to make semicircles round
the edge of the slice, and to drop crumbs on
the baby's face.

Well, lass," said Tom, as Polly handed
him 'his great cup of tea, '' about the
christening[ ? When's it to be ? "

On Sunday, Tom, and that's what I
wanted to tell you — it's my surprise."

What's a surprise ? "

Why, about the godmothers, dear. Why,
•I declare," she pouted, " you don't seem to
mind a bit."

Oh, but I do," he said, " only I'm
so hungry. Well, what about the godmothers
? "

Why, Miss Julia and Miss Cynthia have
promised to stand. Isn't it grand ? "

Grand ? Oh, I don't know."

Tom ! "

"Well, I suppose it is grand, but I don't

know. It's all right if they like it. But
about poor Jock ? "

Oh, that won't make any difference, dear.
They've promised, and I know they won't go
hack. They'll be the two godmothers, and
you the godfather."

"Of course," cried Tom, eating away;
two godmothers and a godfather, eh, lass ?
that's right, isn't it ? "

'^ Yes, Tom," said the little woman, eagerly
attending to her husband's wants, " and
two godfathers and a godmother if it's a
boy."

'^ It'll be a grand christening, won't it,
Polly?" said Tom.

"Oh, no, dear. Miss Julia and Miss Cynthia
are the dearest and best of girls, and they
have no pride. Miss Julia talked to me the
other day just like a friend."

I say," cried Tom, eagerly.

What, dear ? "

Why not do the thing in style while we're

about it. What do you say to asking young
Mr. Cyril to be godfather ? "

If Tom Morrison had looked up then he
would have been startled at the livid look in
his young wife's face, but he was too intent
upon his tea, and Polly recovered herself and
said —

Oh, no, dear, that would not do, and the
young ladies would not like it. Look here,
Tom."

Polly tripped to a basket, from which she
produced a white cloak and hood, trimmed
with swan's-down ; and these she held up
before her husband, flushed and excited, as,
in her girlish way, she wondered whether he
would like them.

Budo;e left off eating, and wished for a
white dress on the spot, trimmed with silk
braid, like that.

Say," said Tom, thickly, speaking with his
mouth full, " they're fine, ain't they ? — cost a
lot o' money."

'' No," said Polly, gleefully, " they cost
nothing, Tom. Miss Julia made me a present
of the stuff, and I made them."

Did you, though ? '^ he said, looking at her
little fingers, admiringly. " You're a clever
girl, Polly ; but I often wonder how it was you
came to take up with a rough chap like me."

Polly looked up in his steady, honest eyes,
and rested one hand upon his, and gazed
lovingly at him, as he went on —

My old woman said it was because Fd got
a cottage, and an acre of land of my own."

'* Did she say so, Tom ? "

Yes," he said, taking her hand, patting it,
and gazing up in the pretty rustic face he
called his own ; '" but I told her you were a
silly little girl, who would have me if I'd got
a cottage and an acre less than nothing to call
my own."

'sand you told the truth, Tom, dear," she
whispered. " Tom, you make me so happy in
believing in me like this."

Polly SURPRISE. Ill

Tilt, tut, my girl, rm not clever ; but I
knew you."

^* And married me without anything, only
enough to buy my wedding dress and a little
furniture."

*^ Dryer call that nothing ? " said the hearty,
Saxon-faced young fellow, pointing to the
baby ; " because I don't. And I say, Polly,
dear," he whispered, archly, *' perhaps that's
only the thin end of the wedge."

Hush, Tom, for shame ! " she said, trying
to frown, and pointing to Budge ; while he
took a tremendous bite of bread and bacon,
and chuckled hugely at his joke.

The old lady used to have it that you
were too fine for me, Polly, and would have
been setting your cap at one of the young
gentlemen at the rectory when you was
abroad with them."

Tom ! " she panted, as his words seemed to
stab her, and she ran out of the room.

Why, Polly, Polly," he cried, following

her and holding her to his breast, " what a
touchy little thing thou art since baby
came ! Why, as if I didn't know that ever
since you were so high you were my little
sweetheart, and liked great rough me better
than the finest gentleman as ever walked.
There, there, there ! I wa a great lout to
talk like that to thee. Come, wipe Ihy eyes."

I can't bear it, Tom, if you talk like
that," she sobbed, smiling at him L^ 'ough her
tears. " There, it's all over now."

There was a little cold shiver at Polly
Morrison's breast, though, all the same, and
it kept returning as she sat there over her
work that evening, rocking the cradle with
one foot, and wondering whether she could
gain strength enough to tell her husband all
about Cyril Mallow, and the old days at
Dinah.

But no, she could not, and they discussed,
as Tom smoked his pipe, the state of affairs
at the rectory ; how Mrs. Mallow remained as

great an invalid as ever, and how they seemed
to spare no expense, although people had said
they went abroad because they had grown
so poor.

*' Folk seem strange and sore against
parson," said Tom at last.

Then it's very cruel of them, for master
is a real good man," cried Polly.

They don't like it about owt Sammy
Warmoth. They say he killed him," said
Tom, between the puffs of his pipe.

'* Such nonsense ! " cried Polly ; " and him
ninety-three."

Then they are taking sides against him
for wanting to get rid of Humphrey Bone."

And more shame for them," cried Polly,
indignantly.

Well, I don't know," said Tom ; " Fve rather
a liking for old Humphrey. He taught me."

*' He's a nasty wicked old man," cried
Polly. " He tried to kiss me one day when
he was tipsy."

VOL. I. I

He did ?" cried Tom, breaking his pipe in
the angry rush that seemed to come over
him.

Yes, Tom, and I boxed his ears," said
the little woman, shivering again, for the fit
of jealous anger did not escape her searching
eyes.

That's right, lass. I'm dead on for a new-master
now."

Then a discussion arose as to the baby's
name, Tom wanting it to be called after his
wife, who was set upon Julia, and she carried
the day.

There," said Tom, " if anybody had told
me a couple of years ago that any bit of a
thing of a girl was going to wheedle me, and
twist me round her finger, and do what she
liked with me, I should have told him he
didn't know what he was talking about."

*' And you don't mind, Tom, dear ? "

No," he said, smiling, " I don't mind, if
it pleases thee, my lass."

"And it does, dear, very, very much," she
said, kissing him.

But Polly Morrison did not feel happy, and
several times that nio^ht there was the little
shiver of dread at her heart, and she wished
she could tell Tom all.

I 2

CHAPTER Vii

THE BLACK SHADOW.

It was, as Julia Mallow said, a very pretty
baby, that of Polly Morrison and ber husband,
when she spoke to her invalid mother, lying
so patiently passive upon the couch in her
own room ; but that weak little morsel of
humanity had a part to play in the troubles
of the Rev. Eli Mallow's life. For hardly
had the tiny babe sent to the care of Tom
Morrison and his young wife begun to smile
upon them, than it was taken suddenly ill.

No childish ailment this, brought on by
careless attendance ; but the cold gray hand
of death was laid upon the fragile form, its

little eyes — erst so bright and blue — sunken?
and the tiny nose pinched and blue.

Julia and Cynthia Mallow had been in to
see her, and found the little woman prostrate
with grief, and then hurried to the town for
medical advice, though that of fifty doctors
would have been in vain. '

Pray, pray, Tom, go and ask Budge not
to cry," sobbed Polly, as her husband knelt
at her side ; for ever and again, from below,
came a long, dismal cry, that almost resembled
the howl of a dog in a state of suffering.

Tom Morrison rose in a heavy, dull way,
and slowly descended the stairs, returning ina
minute to resume his place beside his wife,
turning his eyes to hers, as they looked up to
him in mute agony.

They could not speak, but they read each
other's hearts, and knew full well that nothing
could be done ; that the tiny life that had
been given to them to have in charge was
passing fast away — so fast, and yet so gently

that neither knew it had gone till, alarmed
by the slow dilation of the little eyes, and
their fixed and determinate look, Polly bent
over the waxen form in eager fear, caught it
tightly to her breast, and then sank back in
her chair, crying —

Tom, Tom, God has taken it away ! "
An hour later, husband and wife were
sitting hand in hand by the little couch on
which their darling lay, so still and cold, its
tiny face seeming restful, free from pain,
and almost wearing a smile, while on either
hand, and covering its breast, were the best
of the simple, homely flowers the garden
could produce.

There was a heavy, blank look upon the
parents' faces ; for even then they could not
realize their loss. It was so sudden, seemed
so strange ; and from time to time Polly
got softly up, to lean down and hold her
cheek close to the little parted lips, to make
sure that the infant did not breathe ; but

there was no sign, and when she pressed
her lips to the white forehead, it was to find
it cold as ice.

Budge had been silent for some time, going
about the house on tiptoe, and, like those
above, too stunned to work ; but her homely
mind was busy for a way to show her sympathy,
and this she did by making and taking
up on the little tray two steaming cups of
tea, each flanked by a goodly slice.

Poor Budo^e ! she had not calculated her
strength aright ; for on softly entering the
room, and setting down the tray, she turned
her head, and saw the simple flower-strewn
bier, gave a long, loving look, and then,
sinking on her knees, with her hands to her
eyes, burst forth into a wild and passionate
wail.

It was even ludicrous, but it touched the
hearts of those who heard ; for with it came
the passionate yearning of the desolate child
for the love and sympathy it had never

known, but for which its young heart had
hungered so long. It told of nights of misery,
and a desire for a something it felt it ought
to possess but had never had, as now, raising
her hands, she wailed forth her prayer —

Oh, please, God, let me die instead, let me
die instead."

As she finished, there was another]* wild
burst of hysterical sobbing, and Polly had
flung herself in the child's arms, clinging to
her, kissing her passionately, as she cried —

Oh, Budge, my poor girl ! Oh, Budge,
you'll break my heart ! "

Tom Morrison could bear no more, but
stumbled heavily from the room, down-stairs,
and out into his garden, where daybreak found
him sitting, with his face buried in his hands,
on the bit of rustic seat beneath the old weeping
willow that grew in the corner, with its
roots washed by the river that formed one of
the boundaries of the little freehold.

The sun was rising gloriously, and the east

was one sheet of gold and orange damask, shot
with sapphire, as the sturdy workman rose.

I must be a man over it — a man's he
faltered, " for her sake." And he slowly
strode into the house, and up-stairs, to find his
wife kneeling where he had left her, wakeful
and watching, with poor Budge fast asleep,
with her head upon Polly's lap, and her two
roughened. hands holding one of those of her
mistress beneath her cheek.

The wheelwright walked up to the sleeping
babe, and kissed it ; then, gently taking
Budge's head, he placed it upon a pillow from
the bed ; while, lastly, he raised poor Polly
as though she had been a child, kissed her
cold lips, and laid her down, covering her
with the clothes, and holding one of her hands,
as he bade her sleep ; and she obeyed, that
is to say, she closed her heavy eyes.

In the course of the morning, stern, crotchety
old Vinnicombe, the Lawford doctor, sought
out the stricken father, finding that he had

not been to his workshop, but was down his
garden, where, after a few preliminaries, he
broke his news.

AVhat ? " he said, starting. " There, sir,
I'm dazed like now ; please, say it again."

'' I'm very sorry, Morrison — very," said the
doctor, " for I respect you greatly, and it must
be a great grief to your poor little wife ;
but I have seen him myself, as I did about
Warner's child, and he is very much cut up
about it ; but as to moving him, he is like iron."

I can't quite understand it, sir," said
Tom, flushing. " Do you mean to say, sir,
that parson won't bury the child ? "

Well, it is like this, Morrison," said the

doctor, quietly, "he is a rigid disciplinarian —

a man of High Church views, and he says it is

• impossible for him to read the Burial Service

over a child that was not a Christian."

*' That was not a Christian ? " said Tom
slowly.

'^ He says he condoles with you, and is very

sorry ; that the poor little thing can be buried
in the unconsecrated part of the churchyard ;
but he can grant no more'

"Doctor' cried the wheelwright, fiercely,
I don't be — There, sir, I beg your pardon,"
he continued, holding out his rough hand ;
*' but it seems too hard to believe that any one
could speak like this. The poor little thing
couldn't help it, sir ; and we should have had
it done next Sunday. Why, sir, the poor girl
was only showing me the little — don't take
notice o' me, sir, please ; I'm like a great girl

now."

As he spoke, he sank down upon an upturned
box, and, covering his face with his
hands, remained silent ; but with his heaving
shoulders telling the story of his bitter
emotion.

*' Be a man, Morrison — be a man," said the
doctor, kindly, as he laid his hand upon the
stricken fellow's shoulder.

'* Yes, doctor," he said, rising and dashing

away the signs of his grief — " this is very
childish, sir ; but it's a bit upset me, and now
this news you bring me seems to make it
worse. I'll go up and see parson. He won't
refuse when he knows all."

Yes, go up and see him," said the doctor,
kindly. " Can I do anything for you ? "

No, sir, thanks," said the wheelwright,
meekly ; " you couldn't do what I wanted, sir
save that poor little thing's life. There's
nothing more."

No," said the doctor ; *' our profession is
powerless in such a case. The child was so
young and tender that "

Don't say any more, sir, please," said
Morrison, with his lip quivering. And then
he turned away from the house, so as to avoid
Biggins the carpenter, who had just come in at
the garden gate, and walked on tiptoe along
the gravel walk, up to the door, where he
was met by a neighbour, who led him
up-stairs.

Biggins, the Lawford carpenter, was the
newly-appointed sexton of the church, and
between him and Tom Morrison there was
supposed to exist a bitter hatred, because
Biggins the carpenter had once undertaken to
make a wheelbarrow for the rectory garden,
and Morrison had made a coffin for one of the
Searby children who died of a fit of measles.

The feud seemed to be a bitter one, for
when he came out of the cottage five minutes
later, he turned down the garden, seeing
which, the doctor shook hands with Morrison,
and at parting said —

Let me give you something to do you
good, Tom."

What, sir, doctor's stuff ? " said the wheelwright,
with a look of wonder. '* I want no
physic."

Yes, you do," said the doctor, smiling, ashe
laid the silver knob of his stick on the stout
fellow's breast — " yes, you do. I can minister
to a mind diseased as well as to a body. Look

here, my lad, you must bear your suffering
like a man ; so, now go and do this "

Tom made an impatient movement to go,
but the doctor stayed him.

There is nothing like work at such a time
as this," he said. "Go and see the parson,
and then set to and work harder than ever you
worked before in your life. It will give you
ease."

*' You're right, Mr. Vinnicombe, you're
right," said Tom, bluntly. " Thanks, sir —
thanks. Good-bye."

As the doctor walked out of the gate,
Biggins the carpenter, a hard-faced man, who
emitted a strong odour of glue from his garments,
walked up, tucking a piece of sand-paper
upon which he had been writing, and
his square carpenter's pencil, that he had
pointed with four chops of his chisel ]before
starting, into one of his pockets.

Thy savoy cabbages look well, neighbour,"
he said quietly, as being the most sympathetic

thing he could think of at the moment. Then
he held out his hand, shook the other s warmly,
without a word, and then stood by him,
breathing heavily, and looking down at the
ground.

Five minutes passed like this, without a
word on either side, Morrison manifesting no
impatience, and Biggins showing no disposition
to go ; for it was his way of showing
sympathy to a friend in distress, and Morrison
felt it so to be, and thanked him in his
heart.

At last the carpenter, who was used to
funerals, and ^vho was now next door to
being clerk, heaved a heavy sigh, stooped
down, picked a strand from the grass plot,
and held it at arm's length, looking at it
fixedly for a minute or so, before saying,
huskily —

All flesh is grass, Tom Morrison — flowers
of the field — cut down — withered. Amen."

He said it in a slow, measured way, and

with a nasal twansj, the last word closing his
disconnected speech after quite an interval ;
and then the two men stood together for some
minutes in silence.

At last Biggins spoke again, but without
raising his eyes, looking down at the garden
path, as if for a place to plant the bent he
had broken from its roots.

'' Poor wife ! She's terribly cut up,
Tom."

There was another interval of silence, and
then Biggins said, as if to himself, and still
gazing at the path —

White cloth, and silver breastplate and
nails ? "

There was another pause, and then Tom said
in a weary, dull way —

As if it was one of your own, my lad — as
if it was one of your own."

*' Good-bye, Tom Morrison — good-bye, lad,"
said Biggins, holding out his hand once more,
but with his back half turned to his neighbour

Good-bye," said Tom, squeezing the honest,
hard fist held out to him in a manly grip ;
and, with a sigh, Biggins was turning off,
when a word from the wheelwright arrested
him. *' Come down here, lad, away from the
house," said Tom, huskily.

Biggins looked up now, his heavy face
lighting up. Tom Morrison wanted him to do
something for him. He could do that, if he
could not show sympathy.

They walked down the neatly-kept garden,
till they stood under the willow tree, whereafter
a f§^->fi51nutes' silence, Tom Morrison said
huskily —

"They've made you saxon now, haven't
they, Joe ? "

"Yes, and ought to be clerk as well, but
it don't seem like being saxon in these newfangled
days, when the ground's cut f^:oTn
under a man, and there's no chances df putting
in a simple, honest amen anywhere. Ah,
I don't know what poor, dear old parson

VOL. I. *• R

would have said to see the change. He'd
think wed all gone over to Popery."

Tom waited till his friend, now suddenly
grown voluble, had ceased.

Joe Biggins," he said, '' didst ever know
old parson — God bless him! — to refuse to
bury any one out of the place because —
because they wasn't baptized ? "

'^ Never," said Biggins — '' never," energetically.


He never had such a case, perhaps," said Tom.
''Oh, but he did," said Biggins — "even in
my time. Why, there was poor Lizzy Baker's
child. You knew Sam Baker ? "
Tom nodded.

'' Well, when their little one died it hadn't
been christen'd, I know. I remember father
talking about it while he made the coffin, and
I recollect it so well because it was the first
coffin I ever put the nails in all by myself.
Let's see, that's a good fifteen year ago now,
Tom, that it be."

And he buried it ? "

''To be sure he did. Why, I remember as
well as if it had been yesterday. He says to
my father, he says, ' I never like to be too
particlar about these baptismal matters. It's
not 'cording to church law, but I couldn't
put such a sorrow on the poor father and
mother as to refuse the service, and I hope
I'm rio^ht.' "

He said so ? " whispered the wheelwright,
half turning away his face.

I can't as a man, Tom, sweet to the act
words," said the carpenter, earnestly ; " but
I'll sweet as they meant all that, long ago as

it IS.

God bless him ! " muttered Tom, with his
lower lip working.

Old parson wasn't particular about those
sort o' things. Don't you remember about
poor old Dick Granger ? To be sure — yes — we
were boys then, and went to Humphrey Bone.
Aye, and what a rage he do wax in again

K 2

parson now, toe be sewer. I reflect father
talking about it. You remember, sewers, old
Granger went off his head, and drowned himself
in Cook's mill dam, and the jury said it was
felo de so; and Johnson up at the Need Cow
was foreman, and wanted him to be buried
at the cross roads, with a stake drum through
his heart. Why, it's all come back now. I
reflect it all ; how old parson went to the
poor old widow, and talked to her ; and there
was a big funeral. Everybody went to see
poor old Granger buried in the churchyard ;
and he was buried all regular, and parson
preached the next Sunday about brotherly
love and Christian charity. Why, Tom, you
and I was about seventeen then. How time
do go ! "

"Yes — I remember," said the wheelwright,
bowing his head.

Ah," said Biggins, " those were the days,
Tom ; even if one did get to know some
of poor old parson's sermons. We sang the

old psalms and hymns then, and Miss Jane
used to practise twice a week with us boys
at the little organ that old Davy, Franklin's
gardener, used to turn the handle on. There
was no choral service then, and white gowns
for the children. Ah, a clerk's place was
worth having then. It wasn't many on 'em
as could roll out Amen like poor old Sammy
Warmoth."

Joe Biggins," said the wheelwright, checking
the flood of recollections — " doctor says
J-ev. Mallow won't — won't "

Won't bury the little one I "

Tom's voice failed him, and he nodded
shortly.

"Phew!"

Biggins gave a low, sibilant whistle. Then,
flushing up, he exclaimed —

D — n him ! No — I don't mean that.
Lord forgive me for speaking so of a parson.
But, I say, Tom — oh, no, he can't mean it,
lad. Tell you what, he's a queer one, and as

proud as a peacock, and his boys ain't what
they shoidd be. You needn't tell him what I
say, for I don't want to offend nobody, that's
niy matter through life ; but parson's a parson,
and he's bound to prac/M^ what he preaches.
You go and see him."

'* I mean to."

Shall I go with thee, lad ? "

No. I'll go alone."

Perhaps you'd better, lad. If he makes
any bones about it, ask him as a favour
don't be hot with him, Tom, but a bit
humble. I know thee don't like to ask
favours of any man ; but dort for her sake,
Tom — indoors."

Biggins pointed over his shoulder with his
thumb, and the wheelwright nodded.

"When is the best time to see him '? " said
Tom, after a few moments' silence.

"Well, it's no good to go till 'bout two
o'clock, after his lunch. He won't see me,
even on parish matters, in the morning."

The wheelwright nodded, and, without
another word, Biggins went away, passing the
cottage, with its drawn-down blinds, on tiptoe*
and shaking his fist at a boy who was whistling
as he went along the road.

CHAPTER IX.

ORTHODOX TO A DEGREE.

The Rev. Lawrence Paulby looked rather
aghast at the changes Mr. Mallow was effecting
in the church, and sighed as he thought of
the heart-burnings that were ever on the
increase ; but he said nothing, only went on
with his daily routine of work, and did his best,
to use his own words, *' for everybody's sake."

Joe Biggins, as we have learned, had succeeded
old Sammy Warmoth as far as a
successor was wanted, and he now, in a most
sheepish manner, looking appealingly at the
Curate, wandered about the church as a verger,
in a long black gown, and carrying a white
wand, to his very great disgust and the

amusement of the schoolboys, several of whom
had tested its quality. The little old organ
had been brought down from the loft where the
singers used to sit, and placed in the chancel,
where there was no room for it, so a kind
of arched cupboard had been built expressly
to contain it ; and where the Eector's and
churchwardens' families used to sit, close up
by the communion rails, was now occupied
by the surpliced choir, who weekly attempted
a very bad imitation of a cathedral service.
They chanted all the psalms to the Gregorian
tones, item, the responses and the amens ;
and beginning always very flat, they gradually
grew worse and worse, till, towards the close
of the service, they would be singing a long
way on towards a semitone beneath the organ,
which always gave a toot to pitch the key
for the Eector or Curate to start in intoning
his part.

The very first Sunday that this was tried, Mr.
Lawrence Paulby broke out into a vexatious

perspiration that made this head shine ; for in
spite of all his practice at the schoolroom, no
matter how he tried to draw their attention
to the coming task, dwelling as he did upon
such words at the end of a prayer as '^ Be
with us all — ever — m — o — r — e," the chanted
"Amen," delivered out of tune by the inattentive
young surpliced choir, aided and
abetted by the schoolmaster Bone's bass,
was something so shocking that, if it had
been anything but a sacred service, it might
have been called a burlesque.

It did not matter whether he was himself
intoning, or listening to Mr. Mallow's rich deep
voice, the Curate always sat in agony lest
any one should laugh, a horror that he could
not contemplate without a shudder, and he
wished in his heart that the Eector would
take it into his head to o^o ao-ain.

Parish business took the Curate over to the
rectory on the morning succeeding the death
of Tom Morrison's little one. He had been

up to town, and returned only late the past
nio^ht, the result beings that he had not heard
of the wheelwright's trouble, or he would at
once have called.

He was a very nervous man, and the
probabilities were that had he known what
was about to happen, he would have stayed
away. He had expected to be asked to stay
lunch, and he had stayed. Then conversation
had ensued on the forthcoming visitation of
the bishop of the diocese. Cyril Mallow
had made two or three remarks evidently
intended to "chaff the Curate," as he would
have termed it, and to provoke a laugh from
his sisters ; but in neither case was he successful,
and as soon as lunch was over, the
Rector rose and led the way to his study,
where he waved his hand towards a chair.

The Curate had hardly taken his seat,
feeling rather oppressed at his principal's
o^rand surroundings as contrasted with his own
modest apartments at the old rectory, when

the butler entered softly to announce that the
wheelwright wished to see him.

The Curate rose to leave.

No, no, sit still," said the Rector. " That
will do, Edwards ; I will ring," and the butler
retired.

I am glad you are here, Paulby ; I was
going to speak upon this business. You have
heard of it, I suppose ? "

Heard ? Of what ? " said the Curate.

Morrison's child is dead," said the Rector.

The baby ! God bless me ! " ejaculated
the Curate. " I beg your pardon, Mr.
Mallow," he continued, blushing; like a oriel.
It was so shocking. I was so surprised."

The Rector bowed gravely, and went and
stood with his back to the fireplace, and
rang.

You can show Mr. Morrison in, Edwards,"
said the Rector, and poor Tom Morrison was
ushered in a few moments later, sto stand
bowing as the door was closed ; but in no

servile way, for the sturdy British yeoman
was stamped in his careworn face, and he was
one of the old stock of which England has
always felt so proud.

The Rector bowed coldly, and pointed to
a seat — standing, however, himself behind his
writing-table.

Ah, Morrison," exclaimed the Curate,
after an apologetic glance at the Rector, " 1
cannot tell you how I am shocked at this
news. I did not know of it this morning, or
I would have come down."

He held out his hand to the visitor ashe
spoke, an act Mr. Mallow forgot, and it
was gratefully pressed.

Then feeling that he was not at home,
Mr. Paulby coughed, and resumed his seat.

I've come, sir," said the wheelwright,
about a little business."

He hesitated, and glanced at Mr. Paulby
as if he did not wish to speak before him.

I think, sir' said the Curate, respectfully,

Mr. Morrison wishes to speak to you in
private."

I believe it is on a church question," said
the Rector, sternly. " Mr. Morrison, you
need not be afraid to speak before him."

I'm not, sir, on my account," said the
wheelwright, bluntly. " I was thinking of
you, sir."

*' What you have to say can be said before
Mr. Paulby. It woukl be affectation on my
part not to own that I know the object of
your visit."

Well, sir, then, to be plain," said Tom,
clearing his throat, but speaking very humbly,
I thought I should like to know, sir, whether
what I heard from doctor was true."

"First let me say, Mr. Morrison, that I
heard with deep sorrow of the affliction that
has befallen you. I am very, very sorry "

<< Tl

Thank you, sir, thank you," said Tom,
with his under lip working.

I say I am sorry that the chastening

hand of the Lord has been laid upon you
so heavily. But you must remember that
it is not for us to question these chastisements.
Whom the Lord loveth, he chastened.
1 hope your wife seeks for consolation in
prayer."

"Yes, sir, I know all that — thank you, sir
yes, sir — poor lass ! — yes," he said, or rather
murmured, with his lower lip quivering at the
allusion to his wife.

The Curate fidgeted in his chair, and kept
changing the crossing of his knees, his fingers
moving uneasily, as if they longed to go and
lay themselves on the poor fellow's shoulder
while their owner said a few kindly words.

I intend to call upon your wife this
afternoon," continued the Rector.

No, sir — thank you, sir — please, don't —
at least not yet," said Tom. " The poor girl
is so broken down, she could not bear it."

The more need for me to come, Mr.
Morrison," said the Rector, with a sad smile.

.^'i:

Then, seizing the opportunity to deliver the
first thrust after all his fencing, he continued,
reproachfully, '' I am sorry I did not know,
Morrison, how ill your infant was. You
should have sent to me ; it was your duty."

Yes, sir, I suppose it was," said the wheelwright,
humbly. '* But, gentlemen," he continued,
looking from one to the other, *' I
was in such trouble — my poor wife — we
thought of nothing but saving the poor
child's life."

There is a life beyond the grave, Thomas
Morrison," said the Rector, whose voice grew
firmer as he found that his visitor seemed
awed at what he said. "The duty of man
is to think of that before the world. I am
sorry that you and your wife — such respectable,
well-educated people — should have put
off your duty to your offspring so long, neglecting
it even at the very last, when I was
but a few hundred yards from your door.
I am grieved, deeply grieved. It has been

to me a terrible shock, while you and your
wife have incurred an awful responsibility by
wilfully excluding your first-born from the
pale of Christ's Church."

The stricken man looked from one to
the other — the tall, portly, calm clergyman,
standing behind his table, with one hand
resting upon a large open book, the other
upon his heart, his eyes half closed, his face
stern and composed, and his words falling,
when he spoke, in measured cadence, as if
they had been studied for the time.

The Curate uncrossed his legs, and set his
knees very wide apart, resting his elbows upon
them, and joining his fingers very accurately,
as he bent down his head, till Tom Morrison
could see nothing but his broad, bald, shining-crown.


"Not wilfully, sir — not wilfully," said the
wheelwright, appealingly, and his voice grew
very husky. " The poor girl, sir, had set her
mind — on the christening — Mr. Paulby was to

VOL. I. L

do it, sir, as lie married us — next Sunday ;
and now — "

The poor fellow's voice shook, and his face
grew convulsed for a moment ; but he clenched
his fists, set his teeth, and fought hard to control
his orgies. The Curate drew a honos breath
and bent down lower.

But, sir," said Morrison, after a few
moments' pause, during which the library,
with its rows of books, looked dim and misty,
while the clergyman before him stood as if of
marble — " but, sir, I know I deserve it — and
suppose I have neglected my duty; but the
poor innocent little one — don't say as it's true
that you won't bury it in the churchyard."

The Rector sighed and coughed vaguely.
Then, in a low, sad voice, he said —

'* Morrison, I am grieved — deeply grieved
and mine is a most painful duty to perform ;
but I stand here the spiritual head of this
parish, a lowly servant of Christ's Church, and
T must obey her laws."

But, sir," said Tom, " that tiny child, so
innocent and young — you couldn't be doing
wrong. I beg your pardon, sir, Fm an ignorant
man, but don't — pray, don't say you won't
bury it."

*' Mr. Morrison, you are not an ignorant
man," said the Rector, sternly. "You know
the laws of the Church ; you know your
duty to that unfortunate child — that you
have wilfully excluded it from the fold of
Christ's flock. I cannot, will not, disobey
those laws in departing from my duty as a
clergyman."

The Curate moved his fingers about an inch
apart, and then re-joined them, in time to a
deep sigh, but he did not raise his head ;
while Tom Morrison stood, with brow contracted,
evidently stricken by some powerful
emotion which he was struo^s^linor to master :
and at last he did, speaking calmly and with
deep pathos in his appealing voice.

Sir, I am a man, and rough, and able to

L 2

light hard and bear trouble ; but I have a wife
who loved, almost worshipped "

Set not your affections upon things on
earth," said the Rector, in a low, stern voice,
as if in warning to himself.

Tom paused a few moments, till the speaker
had finished, and then he went on —

She almost worshipped that child — I ask
you humbly, sir, for her sake, don't say no
At a time like this she is low, and weak, and
ill. Parson, if you say no, it will go nigh to
break her heart."

Morrison," said the Eector, slowly, with his
eyes still half closed — *^ as a man and a fellow -
Christian, I sympathize with you deeply. I
am more grieved than I can express. By your
neglect you have thrown upon me a painful
duty. The fold was open — always open —
from the day of its birth for the reception of
your poor lamb, but in your worldliness you
turned your back upon it till it was too late.
I say it with bitter sorrow — too late. Let thisbe

a lesson to yon both for life. It is a hard
lesson, but you must bear it. I cannot do
what you ask."

The wheelwright stood with the veins in his
forehead swelling, and his clenched fists trembled
with the struggle that was going on within
his breast ; but the face of his sorrowing wife
seemed to rise before him, and he gained the
mastery once more, and turned to the silent
Curate.

'*Mr. Paulby, sir, you married Mary and
me, and we seem to know you here, sir, as
our parson "

The Rev. Eli winced as he heard the emphasis
on the you.

Please help me, sir," continued Morrison,
appealingly ; '' you've known me many years,
and I hope you don't think I'd be the man to
wilfully refuse to do my duty. Will you say
a word for me, sir ? You understand these
things more than me."

The Curate raised his head sharply, and as

bis eyes met those of the suffering man, they
were so full of sympathy, that the look was
like balm to the poor fellow, and he took heart
of grace.

I will, Morrison — I will," said he, huskily ;
and he turned to his brother clergyman.

*' Mr. Mallow," he said, gently — and there
was as much appeal in his voice as in that
of the suppliant before them — " forgive me
for interfering between you and one of your
parishioners, but I do it in no meddling spirit,
only as a servant of our Great Master, when I
ask you whether in such a case as this the
Church would wish us to adhere so strictly to
those laws made for our or ui dance so many
years ago. I think you might — nay, as a
Christian clergyman, I think you should —
accede to our suffering brother's prayer."

*god bless you, sir, for this!" ejaculated
Morrison, in a broken voice.

The Rector turned slowly round, and
his eyes opened widely now as they fixed

themselves upon the countenance of his
curate.

For a few moments he did not speak, but
panted as if his feelings were too much for
him. Then, in a voice faltering from emotion,
he exclaimed —

Mr. Paulby, you astound me. You, whom
I received here with testimonials that were
unimpeachable, or I should not have trusted
you as I have, — you, a priest of the Church of
England, to counsel me to go in direct opposition
to her laws ! "

I ask you, sir," said the Curate, gently, '^ to
perform, at a suffering father's prayer, the last
duties to the dead, over the body of an innocent
babe, freshly come from its Maker's hands,
freshly there returned."

Sir," exclaimed the Eector, and there was
indignation now in his words, ** well may the
enemies of the Church triumph and point to
its decadence, when there are those within the
fold who openly, and in the presence of backsliders,

counsel their brother priests to disobey
the sacred canons of her laws. I feel sure,
however, that you have been led away by your
feelings, or you would not have spoken so."

*' Yes," said the Curate, sadly. " I was led
away by my feelings."

I knew you were, sir," said the Rector,
sternly. " Sir, it was time that a party should
arise in the Church, ready and strong, to repair
the broken gaps in the hedges, and to protect
the sheep. I grieve to find that I have been
away too long. I thought, sir, you would have
been ready to stand fast in the faith, when
assaulted by the worldly-minded who would
lead men astray ; ready to "

Forget the dictates of humanity, for the
hard and fast laws made by men who lived
in the days of persecution, and before the
benignant, civilizing spread of education had
made men to know more fully the meaning of
brotherly love."

Sir "

I beg your pardon, Mr. Mallow," said the
Curate, whose face was now flushed. "You
seem to forget that we do not live now in the
days of the faggot and the stake. But, there,"
he said, gently, " I think you will accede to
the wishes of my poor friend."

Sir," said the Eector, " I can only repeat
that I am grieved beyond measure at this
expression of opinion. What you ask of me
is impossible."

The wheelwright had listened with growing
indignation to these words on either side, and
now, flushed and excited, he spoke out.

You will not do this, then, sir ? " he said,
hoarsely.

'' You have had my answer, Mr. Morrison,"
was the cold reply, and he walked towards
the bell.

Stop, sir — a minute," exclaimed Morrison,
panting. "You called me an educated man
time back ? "

The Rector bowed coldly.

'' You're not right about that, sir ; but I
have read a little, and so as to behave as a
decent man, as I thought, next Sunday, I read
through the christening service, and what it
says about children who have been baptized
dying before they sin being certain to be
saved."

That is quite right," said the Rector,
gravely ; and he now seemed to ignore the
Curate's presence.

And do you take upon yourself to say, sir,
that, as my child was not baptized, it goes
to — the bad place ? "

I am not disposed to enter into a controversy
with you. My duty is to obey the
canons of the Church. ' He that believeth
and is baptized shall be saved : he that believeth
not shall be damned,' " he added, only
to himself, but heard by the others.

"How could that tender child believe ? "
said Morrison, fiercely.

There was no reply.

"Mr. Mallow, sir' exclaimed Morrison,
difference of grade forgotten in his excitement,
you refuse my child Christian burial, and you
speak those dreadful words. I say, sir, do
you wish me to believe that my poor, tender
infant, fresh given to us by God, has gone to
everlasting punishment for what it could not
help — my neglect, as you call it ? "

I have told you that I cannot enter into
a controversy with you ; these are matters
such as you cannot understand."

Then I swear " roared Morrison.

'^ Stop ! " exclaimed the Curate. '' Thomas
Morrison, my good friend, you are angry and
excited now, and will be saying words that,
when cooler, you may repent."

This is little better than an outrage,"
said the Eector, in whose cheeks two angry
spots now glowed.

Allow me to speak, sir," said the Curate,
firmly. " I speak on behalf of that fold
whose fences you accused me of neglecting."

The Rector turned upon him wonderingly,
while the wrath of the wheelwright was quelled
by the calm, stern words of the little man
who now stood before them.

Morrison," he continued, " I have been a
clergyman many years, and, God helping me,
it has been my earnest work to try and
convince my people of the love and tenderness
of the Father of all for His children.
Whenever a doo:ma of the Church has been
likely to seem harsh to our present day ideas,
I have let it rest, knowing; how much there is
of that which is just and good in our grand old
religion. Mr. Mallow, as your subordinate,
sir, I may seem presumptuous. You are an
older man than I, and perhaps a wiser, but I
ask you, sir, with no irreverent feeling, whether,
if it were possible that He dio said, * Suffer
little children to come unto Me, and forbid
them not,' were howling your position here —
the God as man and teacher of the people of
this parish — He would act as you are acting ?

Would He not deal with such a canon as He
did with the teachings of the Pharisees ?
Why, sir, He took little children into His
arms, and blessed them, and said, ^ Of such is
the kingdom of heaven.' "

He paused for a moment, while the Rector
stood calm, stern, and cold, with his eyes once
more half closed, covered in his cold church
armour, and a pitying smile of contempt upon
his lip ; while Morrison stayed, angry still, but
with quivering lip, and his hand upon the
door.

A dead silence *fell upon the little group
when Mr. Paulby had done speaking, and
both the Curate and Tom Morrison watched
the Rector, expecting him to make some reply,
but none came.

At last the silence was broken by the
wheelwright, out of whose voice every tinge of
anger had now gone, and he spoke in tones
which sounded deep, and trembled exceedingly
at first, but gained strength as he went on : —

''Mr. Paulby, sir," he said, " I thank you.
I can't say all I feel, sir, but my poor wife
and I thank you with all our hearts for what
you've just said for us. I'm only a poor
ignorant man, sir, but if I couldn't feel that
what you've said is just and true, I should be
ready to do what so raau}' here have done — goto
the chapel. That wouldn't be like the
Morrison thrush, sir. We've been church
sir, for a couple of hundred years, and if
you go round the churchyard, sir, you will see
stone after stone marked with the name of
Morrison, sir ; some just worn out with age,
and others growing plainer, till you come to
that new one out by the big tower, where
my poor old father was laid five years ago.
There's generations and generations of my
people, sir, lying sleeping there — the whole
family of the Morrison, sir, save them as left
their bones in foreign lands, or were sunk in
the deep seas, sir, fighting for their country.
And now my little one is to be kept out. Oh,

parson, it's too bad, and you'll repent all this.
Mr. Paulby, sir, God bless you for your words.
Good-bye ! "

He strode out of the room, and the two
clergymen stood listening to his heavy feet ashe
crossed the hall and passed out of the
house. For a few minutes neither spoke.

At length the Curate broke the silence. The
fire had gone out of his voice, and the light
from his eye, as he said in a low voice —

Mr. Mallow, I am very, very sorry that
this should have occurred."

'rand at a time when I am fio^htin^ so
hard to win these erring people to a better
way, Mr. Paulby," said the Rector, sternly.

And I have tried so hard too, Mr.
Mallow," said the Curate, plaintively. " When
they all seem bent on going to one or the
other of the chapels here."

I do not wonder, sir," said the Rector,
"but I do wonder that my own curate should
turn against me."

No, 130 ; not turn against you, sir. 1
wished to help."

"Mr. Paulby, I regret it much, but I shall
be obliged to ask you to resign."

*' No, no, sir ; I beg you will not," cried the
Curate, excitedly. " I have grown to loveth*
people here, and "

Mr. Paulby," said the Rector, "our opinions
upon the duties of a priest are opposite. You
will excuse me — I wish to be alone."

The Curate stood for a moment or two with
his hand extended, then he let it fall to
his side.

As you will, sir," he said, sadly. " But
there, you will think about this. Let me
come over tomorrow, and see you. Will you
be at home ? Let us talk the matter over."

No response.

I spoke hotly, perhaps, sir. I ought not
to have done so, but I was moved. Forgive
me if I was wrong — let us part friends."

Still no reply.

'^ I will leave you now, as you wish it, sir.
Drop me a line, and send it by one of the
school-children, and I will come over and see
you.

The Eector might have been made of stone
as he stood there motionless, till, with a heavy
sigh, his visitor slowly left the room, and
trudged across the fields to his gloomy little
room in the old, half-buried rectory.

VOL. I. M

CHAPTER X.

ANOTHER TROUBLE FOR DISCUSSION.

That night, just at dark, Joe Biggins
walked on tiptoe along the little gravel walk,
bearing something beneath his arm ; and, ashe
tapped at the door, the wheelwright rose
and led his sobbing wife to an inner room,
where he held her tenderly, with her head
resting upon his breast, as they stood listening
to the opening door, the creaking stairs, and
the smothered, heavy step in the bed-room
overhead. Then, after a few minutes, there
was the sound of descending footsteps, the
creaking of the cottage stairs, a whisper or two
in the little entry, the closing door, the step
upon the gravel, and all was still.

The sad hours glided by in the little darkened
house, till Saturday arrived. There had
been gossip enough in the place, and endless
messages, fraught with good feeling, had come
to the stricken couple from far and near ; but
there had been no sign from the rectory, and
it was the general belief that the wheelwright
would take the infant to the graveyard at the
Wesley an Chapel at Gatton. For somehow the
whole affair had been well spread, and, as
Humphrey Bone, the schoolmaster, said with
a hearty chuckle of delight, it was a glorious
chance for the Rector's enemies to blaspheme,
and there and then, in the presence of several
witnesses, he took advantage of the glorious
opportunity.

Both Julia and Cynthia had called and
sympathized very warmly with their old maid,
to have the door opened to them by Tom
Morrison himself, who frowned when he saw
who were the visitors ; but as Julia laid her
hand upon his arm, and he saw Cynthia with

M 2

her eyes overflowing, lie drew back, and somehow
the wheelwright's heart was softened,
and grew softer still as he saw his young wife
sob bin o; in Julia Mallow's arms.

Both Julia and her sister tried to mediate,
but were sternly forbidden to interfere, and
though they tried again through the interposition
of Mrs. Mallow, she shook her head.

No, my dears," said the patient invalid,
looking at her daughters with her great
wistful eyes, "it is of no use ; papa will never
give way upon a matter of the Church. He
says "

Mrs. Mallow paused, for she felt that she
ought not to repeat her husband's words,
which were to the effect that he had been
neglectful for years, and that now nothing
should turn him from the path of duty.

Towards evenings Joe Bis^oins went softly
along the lane, and on seeing him at the gate,
Tom Morrison went to meet him, and returned
his friendly grip, the visitor standing afterwards,

as before, perfectly silent and looking
down at the walk.

'' You've come to say something to me,"
said Tom at last, in a quiet, resigned
way.

Amen to that, Tom ; I have," said the
other, in a low voice. '' I thought I should
see you here. About tomorrow afternoon."

Yes," said the wheelwright, quietly.

■' I don't like troubling you about it, lad,"
said Biggins, " only I must. I wanted to tell
you, you know. You see, I must be up at
church, and if you hear from parson, why, I
shall meet you all right ; if you don't hear
from him, there'll be the little mourning coach
all ready waiting to take you all to Gatton.
I've seen to everything. That's all."

He was going off on tiptoe, but Morrison
stopped him, to press his hand with a strongman's
hearty grip ; and he walked with him
to the gate.

Call in when you go up to the church in

the morning," he said, quietly ; and then they
parted.

It was quite dark before the wheelwright
had finished his work in the garden, and went
in to the evening meal, to be met by his wife's
searching look.

He shook his head sadly, as he bent down
nd kissed her.

No, my lass," he said, " Joe brought no
message."

Polly began to weep, the tears flowing fast,
till she saw Budge's face working, ready for a
tremendous howl, when, mastering her emotion,
she sat down with her husband to the table
where their evening meal was spread.

An hour later, husband and wife, hand in
hand, ascended to the death chamber, wherewith
the moonlight full upon it, lay the
tiny coffin, bathed in a silvery flood of
light.

Biggins had obeyed his friend's instructions,
even as if it had been for one of his own, and

the simple silver ornamentation shone upon
the coarse white cloth.

The tear-blinded pair lingered for a few
moments without approaching their sacred
dead ; but at last they stood beside it, and the
young mother removed the lid that lightly
pressed the flowers which covered the tiny
breast.

Their loving lips kissed, for the last time,
the cold, waxen forehead ; and a groan escaped
from Polly's heart as the lid was replaced
closely, this time by the father's hands.

Hush, Polly," he whispered, " you said
you would be strong."

I will, I will " she sighed. And they stood
for a few moments, hand clasped in hand, with
the silence only broken by a smothered sob
from below.

At last, reverently taking the little coffin
in his arms, Tom Morrison bore it slowly
down the stairs, followed by his weeping
wife, who held something white in her hands,

and this she laid over the coffin like a little
pall.

Poor Budge was there, trying hard to keep
down her grief, but a wail would burst forth ;
and covering her mouth tightly with her
hands, she darted away into the back kitchen.

It was the little christening robe, that was
to have been worn next day ; and drip after
drip, to form dark spots in the moonlight, the
hot, burning tears of anguish fell from the
mother's eyes as they slowly bore the little
burden out into the garden, down the neat
path, and away to the corner where the willow
laved its long green branches in the brook — a
veritable stream of silver now, dancing and
sparkling in the beams of the broad-faced
moon.

Where Tom Morrison stopped at last, beneath
the willow, was his evening's work — a small,
dark trench, lying amidst the mellow, sweet-scented,
newly-turned earth ; and here, upon
his own land, he was about to lay the dead —

to be sown in corruption, to be raised in incorruption
— in soil unconsecrated, and without
the rites of the Church.

Unconsecrated ? No, it was consecrated by
the loving tears that bedewed the earth, and
fell upon the little white coffin as it was tenderly
lowered to its resting-place ; and, failing
rites, the stricken pair kneeled on either side
in the soft mould, and, joining hands, prayed
that they might meet again.

Tom's words were few ; but simple and
earnest was his prayer as ever fell from the
lips of man ; while, kneeling at the foot of the
grave was poor Budge, who only burst forth
with a sob when all was over. For the
mother stayed while the earth was reverently
drawn over the cold bed, till a little
hillock of black soil lay silvered by the dropping
moonbeams falling through the willow
boughs.

It was poor Budge who laid her offering —
a bunch of daisies — upon the little grave,

while Tom led his trembling wife back to their
desolate home.

Joe Biggins, true to his word, called at
the wheelwright's next morning on his way to
church, and on coming within sight of the
house he took off his hat to indulge in a good
scratch, for he was puzzled on seeing that
the blinds were all drawn up.

Replacing his hat very carefully, he softly
entered upon tip-toes, and walked up the little
path, where he was met by Tom Morrison,
looking pale and worn, but with a restful lookin
his fa(^e that had not been there for days.

They shook hands warmly, for Joe Biggins
had resolved never to think about that coffin
Tom Morrison had made again, and just then
fresh steps were heard, and they saw old Mr.
Vinnicombe coming up.

I thought rd call, Morrison," he said,
and ask you tp let me be the bearer of a
message to the rectory. Let's make a last
appeal to the bigot."

'' Hush, sir ! — don't call him names," said
Tom. '' He thought he was right, no doubt."

"Then you've heard from him."

'' No, sir, no," said Tom, sadly ; *' but I forgive
him all the same, though I could never
bear to g^o and hear him more."

The doctor and Biggins looked at each other,
and the latter shook his head till his white
cravat crackled, for he was got up ready for
his verger's gown.

Will you walk down the garden, doctor ? "
said the wheelwright, quietly.

They both followed him, wonderingly, till,
nearing the willow, they heard a low, wailing
sob ; and, drawing nearer, found poor Budge
crouching in a heap upon the ground, her face
buried in her hands, sobbing as if her desolate
young heart would break.

They approached her unheard ; and, at the
scene before them, they involuntarily took off
their hats, and stood watching, as Tom. bent
over the weeping girl.

I did, oh, I did love you so ! " they heard
her sob in broken accents. And then, as
Tom touched her gently on the shoulder, she
started up in a frightened way, staring at him
wildly, and, but for his firm grasp, she would
have fled.

By many a scene of sorrow had old Winnie
stood untouched, but his eyes were
moistened now, and a choking sensation
seemed to affect his throat, as Tom looked
kindly down on the poor rough girl, and,
bending over her, lightly pressed his lips upon
her brow.

Thank you, my little lass. Don't cry no
more," he said. "Poor baby's happy now,
and quite at rest."

There was silence for a moment or two in
the little shady garden, for the tinkling
streamlet seemed to be at rest as well. Then
came the soft buzzing; of a bee seeking a fresh
flower ; from the fields beyond, a lark shot up
in the blue sky, lay-laden, and flashed a fount

of sparkling notes upon the morning air ; a
creamy white butterfly flitted through the
trees, poised itself for a moment, lit upon the
bunch of daisies lying on the little grave, and
then rose and rose till hidden from their sight,
as they stood where the dark soil was dappled
now with the morning sunbeams glancing
through the willow bougies.

^' Yes," said Tom, with a smile, as the
breeze brought a waft of flowery scent to
mingle with the newly-turned earth, '^ perhaps
Parson Mallow is quite right, but I feel as if
my little one's at rest."

CHAPTER XL

THE NEW MASTER FOR LAWFORD.

Oh, that bell ! A clanging, jangling, minor-sounding
bell that always sounded so harsh
and melancholy at six o'clock, if the particular
morning happened to be dark, wet and wintry
in chill December, and he who heard it was
rudely awakened from pleasant dreams of
home and country and those he loved, to the
fact that if he got up then he would have sometime
to wait, and that if be dropped asleep
again he might sleep too long.

The warm bed was very tempting as Luke
Koss lay gazing at the spot where he knew the
window must be, but where there was no light
of coming day, and listened to the hissing,

fluttering noise made by the gas-jets just
turned on to enable the students to dress and,
such of them as had beards, to shave, for it was
in that happy, blissful time when the natural
growth of hair upon a man's chin was spoken
of as " filthy," and, if the beard was at all full,
said to look "like some old Jew."

The warm bed, it is repeated, was very
tempting ; but after a few minutes' hesitation,
and just as that fatal drowsiness was coming
on, Luke Koss rose, tried to repress a shiver,
failed, and began to dress hastily by such light
as came over the open partition from the
corridor, where the four gas-jets sang and
sputtered and sent a blue glare into the
twenty-four dormitories — very prison-like,
with their sham stone walls, narrow barred
windows, and iron bedsteads — that this
corridor contained.

For some minutes the hissing of the gas was
the only sound heard, till the trickle of water
into Luke Ross's basin, and sundry panting,

sighs, and splashing, seemed to arouse others
to their fate, when there was a thud as of
some one leaping out of bed, a loud yawn
prolonged into a shivering shudder, and an
exclamation of " Oh, that blessed bell ! "

A more thorough scene of discomfort than
St. Chrysostom's on a dark winter's morning
one of those mornings that might be midnight
— it would be impossible to conceive, and
the students seemed to feel it, and try to vent
their feelings upon their fellows.

'* Here, 1 say ! " said a voice, " I know these
beds are damp. I've got my hands covered
with chilblains. '^

Get out ! " cried another — conversation
being easy, from the fact that every dormitory
opened for a space of a couple of feet above its
door on to the passage. ^' Damp don't give
chilblains. Oh, I say, how miserable it is to
have to shave with cold water in the dark ! "

** Serve you right for having a beard ! '
cried another.

Which you'd give your ears to own. Oh,
hang it ! now I've cut myself. Here, who's
got a silk hat ? Pull us out a scrap of down,
there's a good fellow."

Wipe it dry, and stick a bit of writing-paper
against it."

Will that stop it ? "

*^ Yes."

Mind and get your hair parted right, lads.
Examination day ! "

ril give any fellow a penny to clean my
boots."

Why don't you let Tycho clean 'em ? "

'shot water, gentlemen! hot water! Any
gentleman who wants his boots cleaned please
to set them outside the door."

There, get out. It won't do, Tommy
Smith hers. I'd swear to that squeak of yours
from a thousand." '

If you come that trick again. Tommy,
well make you clean every pair of boots in
the corridor," shouted a fresh speaker, for by

VOL. I. X

degrees the yawning, and creaking of iron beds
and thuds of bare feet upon bare floors had
grown frequent, with shuffling noises, and
gurgling, and splashing, the chinking of ewers
against basins, the swishing of tooth-brushes,
and the stamping of chilblained feet being
thrust into hard, stout boots, and all done ina
hurried, bustling manner, as if those who
dressed were striving by rapid movement to
get some warmth into their chilly frames.

Luke Ross was one of the first dressed : a
well-built, dark-eyed, keen-looking young man
of five-and-twenty, with a good deal of decision
about his well-shaped mouth.

The noise and bustle was on the increase.
With numerous grumbliuors and unsatisfied
lonofino^s floating about his ears, he stood gazing
at the square patch of yellow light near
his door, thinking of the trials of the day to
come, till, apparently brought back to the
present by the shudder of cold that ran
through him, he turned and began to pace

rapidly up and down his little room, from the
dark window covered with soft pats of sooty
snow to the dormitory door.

That brought no warmth, and, knowing
from old experience that the fire in the theatre
stove would only be represented by so much
smoke, he began to beat his chest and sides in
the familiar manner by flinging his arms across
and across to and fro.

This set ofi" others, and then there was the
stamping of feet and the sound of blowing of
hands to warm them, mingled with which was
the scuffling noise made by late risers who had
lain until the last minute, and were now
hurrying to make up for lost time.

The clanging bell once more, giving eye
minutes' law for every student to be in his
place by ten minutes to seven, at which time,
to the moment, the little self-possessed principal
would walk into the theatre, with his
intellectual head rigidly kept in place by the
stiffness of white cravats.

N 2

Upon this particular morning the vice-principal
had the first lecture to deliver, and
the very last man had scuffled into his place,
ink-bottle and note-book in hand, and a
buzz of conversation had been going on for
nearly a quarter of an hour before the little
well-known comedy of such mornings took
place.

Then enter the vice-principal, looking very
Ijrisk and eager, but particularly strained and
squeeze about the eyes, and he had nearly
reached the table and was scanning the rows
of desks and their occupants, rising blue cold,
tier above tier, into the semi-gloom beneath
the organ, when a broad face that was not
blue, cold, nor red, but of a yellowish white,
stared him full in the eyes from the whitewashed
wall, and mutely reproached him for
being late.

Dear me ! " he exclaimed, " that clock is
not right ! "

"Yes, sir, quite right," exclaimed half-a-dozen

eager voices, and their owners consulted
their watches.

Oh, dear me, no ! " exclaimed the vice-principal,
sharply ; " nearly a quarter of an
hour fast."

No one dared to contradict now, and the
lecture by gaslight, in the cold, dark morning,
went on till nearly eight, when those who
assisted at tables left to look after the urns
and cut the bread-and-butter.

A dozen students hurried off for this task,
glad of the chance of feeling the fire in the
great dining-hall ; and, intent as he was upon
the business of the exciting day to come, Luke
Eoss was not above sharing; with his fellow-students,
in providing a more palatable meal
for himself and the head of his table by washing;
the coarse salt butter free of some of its
brine.

The bell once more, and the rush of students
into the dining-hall in search of the warmth
that a couple of cups of steaming hot coffee,

fresh from the tall block-tin urns, would
afford.

The students assembled at the two long
boards, and looked strikingly like so many
schoolboys of a larger growth ; there was the
sharp rapping of a knife-handle upon a little
square table in one corner, the rustling noise
of a hundred men rising to their feet, grace
spoken by the vice-principal, in a rich mellifluous
voice, followed by a choral " Amen " from
all present, and then the rattling of coffee cups
and the buzz of conversation, as the great subject
of the day — the examination — was discussed,
more than one intimating in a subdued
voice that it vas a shame that there should
have been any lecture on such a morning as
this.

Breakfast at an end, there was the regular
rush again, schoolboy like, out into the passage,
where a knot of students gathered round one
of the masters, who was giving a word or two
of advice.

Ah, Eoss," he said, smiling, " I have been
saying now what I ought to have said before
breakfast, that no man should eat much when
he is going in for his examination. Brain
grows sluggish when stomach is full."

*' I'm afraid we have all been too anxious to
eat much, sir," replied Ross.

I'm sure you have, Ross ; but don't overdo
it. Slow and steady wins the race, you know.
Ah, here comes some one who has made a good
meal 111 be bound. Well, Smithers," he continued,
as a remarkably fast-looking young man
came up, " have you had a good breakfast ? "

Yes, sir, as good as I could get."

Thought so," said the assistant master,
smiling. " Well, what certificate do you mean
to take, eh ? First of the first ? "

Haven't been reading for honours, sir,"
said Smithers, grinning.

No, indeed," said the assistant master,
shaking his head. " Ah, Smithers, Smithers !
why did you come here ? "

To be a Christian schoolmaster, sir," was

the reply, given with mock humility by about

as unlikely a personage for the duty as ever

entered an institution's walls.

The bell once more ; and at last, feeling like

one in a dream, and as if, in spite of a year's

hard training and study, he was no wiser than

when he first commenced, Luke Koss was in

his place with a red sheet of blotting-paper

before him, and the printed set of questions

for the day.

The momentous time had come at last, a
time which dealt so largely with his future ;
and yet, in spite of all his efforts, his brain
seemed obstinately determined to dwell upon
every subject but those printed upon that great
oblong sheet of paper.

He had no cause to trouble himself. All he
had to do was to acquit himself as wtII as he
could as a finale to his training: ; but in the
highly-strung nervous state to which constant
study had brought him, it seemed that his

whole future depended upon Ms gaining one
or other of the educational prizes that would
be adjudged, and that unless he were successful,
Sage Portlock, his old playmate and friend —
now some one very far dearer — and for whose
sake he had striven so hard, would turn from
him with contempt.

At another time the questions before him
would have been comparatively easy, and
almost, without exception, he could have
written a sensible essay upon the theme ; but
now Sage, his old home at Lawford, the school,
the troubles in the town and opposition to the
Eector, and a dozen other things, seemed to
waltz through his brain.

He had several letters in his pocket, from
Sage and from his father, and they seemed to
unfold themselves before him, so that he read
ao^ain the words that he knew bv heart : how
indignant the people were at the death of
poor old Sammy Warmoth and the appointment
of Joe Biggins ; the terrible quarrel that

there had been between :Mr. Mallow and the
Curate about the burial of ]Tom Morrison's
child, and how the quarrel had been patched
up again because Mr. Mallow had not liked
Mr. Paulby to leave just when people were
talking so about the little grave in Tom
Morrison's garden. There was the question
of the wretched attempt at choral singing too
on Sunday — singing that he was to improve
as soon as he was master ; for Sage said it did
not matter how well she taught the girls,
Humphrey Bone made his boys sing badly out
of spite, so as to put them out.

Then he had a good look at the examination
paper, and tried to read, but Humphrey
Bone's threat to expose him and show him upas
an ignoramus before all the town, — a clod
who ought to go back to his father s tannery,
all duly related in one of her letters by
Sage Portlock, came dancing out of the page
before him.

Again he cleared his head and took up his

pen, but he felt that he could not write. And
now came up the letter which told how Cyril
Mallow had come back from Queensland —
handsome Cyril, whom he had severely punished
some time before, just, in fact, as he was
about to sail for Australia.

Luke Eoss did not know why he should feel
uneasy about Cyril Mallow being back ; it was
nothing to him. He was a bit of a scamp, and
so on, but he was not so bad as Frank Mallow,
who had been obliged to get wolf to New
Zealand after the scandal about a couple of
the Gatton village girls, and the fight with
Lord Artingale^s keepers, in which he was said
to have joined Jock Morris. The Lawford
people said it was from this that the Eector
became non-resident, as much as from having
overrun the constable.

It was tantalizing to a degree, for, strive
hard as he would, these things seemed to dance
before Luke Boss's eyes ; while as to the
questions themselves, as he read them through

and throui^jli, not one did it seem that he
could answer.

And so it was morning after morning during
the few busy days that the examination lasted.
Every night he went to bed almost in despair ;
every morning he gazed blankly at the various
questions.

But, in spite of his self-depreciation, first
one and then another of the masters, who
gathered up the papers at each sitting's end,
gave him a friendly nod of approval, and
glanced with interest at the closely written
sheets.

Fve made a dismal failure, sir," he exclaimed
at last, as night closed in upon his
fifth day's work.

The assistant-master in whose hands lay the
everyday subjects taught at the institution
laughed as he clapped the young man upon
the shoulder.

'* I wish every man in the college had made
as great a failure, Ross," he said. " There,

there, you are weary and nervous. Get out of
doors aDd have a good blow and as much
exercise as you. can till you have regained your
tone. I ought not to say so, perhaps, hut,
Eoss, you might, if you liked, look higher thana
schoolmaster's life ; that is, if you have any
ambition in your soul."

At that moment Luke Eoss's highest ambition
was to win Sage Portlock's regard, and
to acquit himself so creditably as the new
master of Lawfoid School, that there might be
no room for that modern Shine, Humphrey
Bone, to say hard words against his management
and power of training the young. Later
on circumstances caused him to undergo a
complete revolution of thought.

CHAPTEE XII.

A QUESTION OF INCOME.

They were busy times at Kilby, the farm
occupied by the Portlocks, and Sage was
laughing and merry in her holiday enjoyment
of domestic duties.

A few friends were expected next night, and
busy preparations were being made by Mrs.
Portlock and her niece, whose pleasant-looking,
plump, white arms were bloomed to the elbow
with flour, to which was soon to be added the
golden-looking yolks of a dozen eggs, being
beaten up in a large white basin in the most
unmerciful way by Mrs. Portlock herself.

It was a comfortable-looking country kitchen
where they were busy, in thorough, old-fashioned
style. Not from necessity, for from

the back kitchen and room beyond came the
sound of voices where the two maids were
engaged over other household duties. In the
low, wide window in spite of the season, were
some brightly blooming geraniums, between
which could be seen the home close, dotted
with sheep, and through which field meandered
the path leading down to the town.

Don't forget the salt. Sage," said Mrs.
Portlock, " and put in a dash of carbonate.
For goodness' sake let's have the cake light,
and why, what ails the girl now ? "

Sage had darted back from the table, and
torn off the large ribbed apron she wore so
roughly that she snapped one of the tape
strings, before hastily wiping the flour from her
arms, and pulling down her pinned-up sleeves.

The reason was plain enough, and to be seen
through the geraniums, where Luke Eoss was
making his way across the home close, looking
fresh and eager in the crisp January air, as he
gazed straight before him at the farm.

There, get on with thy work, child," cried
Mrs. Portlock, in a half-petulant, half-laughing
way ; *' there's nothing to be ashamed of in
making a cake. If you marry Luke Ross you
won't have many cakes to make," she added
petulantly.

Oh, for shame, aunt ! How can you ? "
cried Sage, looking conscious and uncomfortable,
as her cheeks turned scarlet.

Because that's what he has come for, I'll
be bound. There, go and let him in."

Oh, no, aunt ! I'd — I'd rather not,"
faltered Sage.

Such stuff, child ! Just as if I couldn't
see you were longing to go. There, if you
don't run and open the door, I'll go myself,
and tell him you were ashamed."

I'll go and open the door," said Sage,
(piety ; and there was a curious, introspective
look in her countenance, as, after waiting till
the imperative rap of the young man's knuckles
was heard, she hastily replaced the apron,

turned up her sleeves, and floured her hands,
before going to let the visitor in.

I'm not ashamed of making cakes, aunt,"
she said, quietly.

'* Bless the girl, what a strange one she is ! "
muttered Mrs. Portlock, apostrophizing the
great eight-day clock, and then pausing in the
beating of eggs, to listen, with the greatest
eagerness, as Luke Eoss's voice was heard at
the door, and Sage's directly after, but in
quite a low buzz, for the intervening door
was shut.

I don't know what to say to it," said Mrs.
Portlock, querulously. " He's very nice, and
kind, and good-looking, but I'd a deal rather
she married a farmer. Schoolmaster! ng don't
fill bacon-racks, nor the tub with pickled
pork."

The buzzing at the front door continued,
and the increased current of air made the fire
to roar up the wide kitchen chimney.

For goodness' sake, why don't they come

VOL. I. O

in?" exclaimed Mrs. Portlock "That girl
will catch her death o' cold"'

She made this remark also in confidence to
the brass-dialed eight-day clock, at the top of
which a grotesque looking human-faced sun
was just peering over an engraved arc, above
which it revolved in company with various
other planets when the mechanism within
properly worked ; and, after making the
remark, Mrs. Portlock^s wooden spoon began
once more to batter the already well-beaten
eggs, between pauses to listen what was going
on at the door.

I hate such shilly-shallying ways," she
muttered. " He's come on purpose to see us,
so why does he loiter there at the door ? I'll
be bound to say if it was young Cyril Mallow
he'd have been here bv now."

The mention of this name made Mrs.
Portlock pause and rub her face thoughtfully
with one corner of her apron.

I don't see why not," she muttered. " I'm

sure lie likes her, or else lie wouldn't be so
fond of coming out here to smoke a pipe with
Joseph. And if they are gentry, why, gentry
are only human flesh ; and as to their money,
I'll be bound to say they're not so much better
off than we are, in spite of their show."

There was another fierce attack upon the
golden fluid in the white basin.

"He seems nice, does Cyril ; very different
to his brother. Poor Rue, she had an escape
there ; and I dare say this will only be a bit of
a flirtation with both of them. I shall not
interfere, and matters may go as they like."

The eggs once more suffered from the severe
attack.

*' It's my belief Sage don't know her own
mind," exclaimed Mrs. Portlock. " Here,
Anne, bring some more coals to this fire ; I
want the oven to be well hot."

Just then there was the sound of the
closing door, and Luke Ross entered, followed
by Sage, looking more conscious than before.

O 2

Morning, Mrs. Portlock," cried the young
man frankly.

Good morning, Luke," she replied. '' Why
didn't you take him in the parlour, Sage ?
There's a good fire there."

Because I begged to be allowed to come
here, Mrs. Portlock, so as not interfere with
the preparations. My father said he would
be glad to come."

Ah, that's right ! " exclaimed Mrs. Port-lock.
" There, sit down by the fire ; you
must want a bit o' lunch. Sage ! — why, bless
the girl, I didn't see her go."

*' She has gone up-stairs, I think," said Luke.

To put her hair straight or some nonsense,
when we are that busy that we shall never be
ready in time."

'' No, no, Mrs. Portlock," said Luke, who
looked hot and nervous, and instead of taking
a chair by the fire, he edged away to stand by
the crockery-covered dresser, with his back
half turned from the light ; "I think she

has gone up-stairs on account of what I wanted
to say."

There, there, there," said Mrs. Portlock,
labouring frantically now at the egg-beating,
I think I know what's coming, and I'd a
deal rather you wouldn't say a word to me
about it."

Luke Eoss looked discomfited and troubled,
and became exceedingly interested for a moment
in the little silk band of his soft felt hat.

*but surely, Mrs. Portlock," he began at
last, " you must have known that I was deeply
attached to Sage ? "

Well, yes, I suppose I did," 'replied Mrs.
Portlock ; and this time some of the yellow
egg flew over the basin side ; " but it's a very
serious matter."

Indeed, yes," said Luke, quietly, " I look
upon it as the turning-point of my life."

And I don't believe that Sage half knows
her own mind yet. She's too young, and it's
not as if she was my own child."

But we can wait, Mrs. Portlock/' said
Luke, gaining confidence, now that he had
made the first plunge. " Of course we should
have to wait for some time."

Won't say anything about it," cried Mrs.
Portlock, as the sturdy red-faced servant-maid
entered to pour a half-scuttle of coals on the
roaring fire. ^' If you want to talk about
it

Mrs. Portlock here began to work viciously
with a piece of nutmeg, the eggs being considered
enough beaten.

I should be sorry to hurt your feelings

about this matter, Mrs. Portlock," continued

Luke ; " but I have always thought you

looked upon Sage and me as being as good

• as engaged."

Oh, I don't know.! I can't sa.}^ ! There,
I won't say anything about it. Oh ! here's
Master, and you must talk to him."

Luke Ross's face wore a particularly troubled
look, as a hearty, bluff voice was just then

heard bidding a dog lie down, and, directly
after, the kitchen door was thrown open, and
the broad-shouldered bluff Churchwarden, in
his loose brown velveteen coat and cord
breeches with leather leo^o[inors, entered the
room. His clear blue eyes and crisp gray
hair made him look the very embodiment of
health, and his face lit up with a pleasant
smile as he strode in with a double guu
under his arm, while his pockets had a
peculiarly bulgy appearance at the sides.

*' Ah, Luke, my lad ! how are you ? " he
said, bluffly, as he held out his hand. " Glad
to see you, my boy. Why, you ought to
have been out with me for a run. Thy face
looks as pasty as owt."

I should have liked the walk immensely,"
said Luke, brightening up at the warmth of
his reception, and he wrung the other's hand.

Schoolmastering don't improve thy looks,
Luke, my lad," continued the Churchwarden.
Why, you are as pale as if you had been bled.

Hang that London ! I don't care if I never
see it again."

There's worse places than London, Joseph,"
said Mrs. Portlock, who had a weakness for an
occasional metropolitan trip.

'tell me where they are, then," said the
Churchwarden, "for I don't know 'em. Got
two hares," he said, standing the gun in the
corner by the dresser.

Ah ! we wanted a hare," said Mrs. Port-lock,
busying herself over the work her
niece had left undone.

There you are, then," said the Churchwarden,
drawing them, one at a time, from
the inner pockets of his shooting-coat.

But is that gun loaded, Joseph ? " cried
Mrs. Portlock, who had been to the dresser
and started away.

Yes, both barrels," said the Churchwarden,
with a comical look at the visitor. " I wouldn't
touch her if I were you."

"I touch the horrid thin or ? " cried Mrs.

Portlock. " There, for goodness' sake unload
it, Joseph, before we have some accident."

All right," said the Churchwarden, tossing
the hares out into the stone passage at the
back, and taking up the gun just as Mrs. Port-lock
had raised the great white basin of well-beaten
egg to pour into a flour crater which
she had prepared. Stepping to the window,
the head of the house turned the fastening
quietly, and opened the casement sufficiently
wide to allow of the protrusion of the barrels
of the gun, when —

Bang ! Bang !

Crash !

All in rapid succession, for the double
report so startled the good housewife that
she let the great white basin slip through
her fingers to be shattered to atoms on the
red brick floor, and spread its golden treasure
far and wide.

Joseph ! " exclaimed Mrs. Portlock.

Say, Luke, IVe done it now," he cried.

There's nothings the matter, lass, only a
basin broke."

'* And a dozen eggs destroyed," cried Mrs.
Portlock, petulantly.

Here, let's go into the parlour, Luke," continued
the Churchwarden, after a merry look at
Sage, who had run down-stairs, looking quite
pale. " Sage, my dear, send Anne in with
the bread and cheese, and a mug of ale.
Luke Eoss here will join me in a bit of lunch."

He led the way to the parlour, Luke
following him, after pausing a moment to
obtain a look from Sage : but she was too
conscious to glance his way, and had begun
already to help Mrs. Portlock, who looked
the very picture of vexation and trouble
combined.

The parlour was a fine old oak-panelled,
low-ceiled room, with dark beams reflection
the flaming fire, whose ruddy light danced
in the panes of the corner cupboard and
glistening sideboard and polished chairs.

** Sit down, my boy, sit down," cried the
Churchwarden, as he stooped to toss a piece
of oak root on the flaming fire. *^ What with
Christmas-keeping, I've hardly seen thee since
you came back. My word, how time goes I
Only the other day thou wast a slip of a
boy helping me to pick the apples in the
orchard and playing with Sage, and now
thought a grown man."

The Churchwarden seated himself, took his
tobacco-jar from a bracket, his pipe from the
chimney-piece, and proceeded to fill it.

You won't smoke, I know. Good job,
too. Bad habit, lad. But what's the matter
anything wrong ? "

'' Only in my own mind, sir," said Luke,
rather excitedly, as he sat opposite the farmer,
tapping the table.

Out with it, then, Luke, my boy, and
I'll help thee if I can. AVant some money ? "

Oh, no, sir," said Luke, flushing. *' The
fact is, I have finished my training, and I

am now down home expecting to take the
management of the school as master."

Ha ! yes ! " said the Churchwarden softly,
leaning forward to light a spill amongst the
glowing logs. '* There's a bit o' trouble about
that. Half-a-dozen of 'em's taking Humphrey
Bone's side against parson, and they want me
to join.'^

But you will not, I hope, sir ? " said Luke,
anxiously.

I should, my lad, but for Master Humphrey's
drink. He's not a man to have the
care of boys."

No, sir, indeed," said Luke, who paused,
while the ruddy servant lass brought in a
napkin - covered tray, with the bread and
cheese, and a great pewter tankard of home-brewed
ale.

Help thyself, lad," said the Churchwarden ;
and now what is it ? "

I must speak out plainly, sir, or not at
all," said Luke, excitedly.

** Surely, my lad' said the other, watching
him keenly, as he poured out some ale.

Luke hesitated for a few moments, and
then tried to clear his voice, but failed, and
spoke huskily as he rose from his seat.

"Mr. Portlock," he said, "you have known
me from a boy."

And always liked thee, my lad, and made
thee welcome," still watching him keenly.

Always, Mr. Portlock, and you will agree
that it is not strange that now I am grown
a man I should love my little playmate Sage,
whom I've known ever since the day you
called at our house with her and Eue — poor
little orphans, looking so pretty and helpless
as they sat in black in your gig."

Aye ! aye ! that was a sad time, Luke
Ross," said the Churchwarden, thoughtfully.
Poor little bairns ! mother and father in one
sad week, Luke. Hah ! well, I've never had
any of my own, and I never think of 'em now
but as if they had been born to me."

No, sir, I know that," said Luke, smiling.

'^ And you want me to say thou mayst have
Sage for thy wife. That's the plain English
of it, lad, eh ? '^

Yes, sir — yes, sir," cried Luke, excitedly ;
but delighted to have his task cut short.

Ha!" said the Churchwarden, thoughtfully.
'' I expected as much. I said to myself that
was what you would ask me when you came
back."

"x\nd you consent, sir ?" cried Luke, joyously.

There was a moment's silence, while the
Churchwarden crossed a sturdy, well-shaped
leg over the other, Luke gazing the while upon
his lips, until he spoke, and then sinking back,
as if smitten, into his chair.

No, my lad, I do not give my consent. 1
like thee, Luke, almost as well as if thou wast
my own son, and I believe you'd make Sage a
good husband ; but, to be plain with you, I
don't like this schoolmaster's and mistress

o

work.

You don't like it, sir ! "

No, my lad. It was against my wist that
Sage took to it. I would rather have seen
her making the bread-and-butter at home ;
and there was no need for her to have gone
into the world ; and as you know, it was then
I set my face against your going in for it
as welL"

Indeed, sir ! "

'^ Yes, my lad. You'd a deal better have
been content to take up with your father's
honest old business of tanning. There's a
good trade to be done."

Yes, sir, but I felt myself so unsuited for
the trade, and I liked books."

And didn't care about dirtying thy hands,
Luke. No, my lad, I think it was a
mistake."

A mistake, sir ? ^'

Yes, and I'll show you. Now, look here,
my boy," continued the Churchwarden, pointing
with the waxy end of his pipe. " No lad of

spirit thinks of taking help from his father,
after his first start in the world."

*' Of course not, sir."

And a lad of spirit don't go hanging on to
his wife's people."

No, sir."

Then, look here, my boy. What is your
salary to be, if you get Lawford School ; I
say, if you get it ? "

Seventy pounds per annum, sir, with a
house, and an addition for my certificate, if I
have been fortunate enough to win one."

Seventy pounds a year, with a house, if
you get the school, and some more if you win
a certificate, my lad ; so that all your income
is depending upon ifs."

I am sure of the school, sir," said Luke,
warmly, as he coloured up.

^' Are you, my lad ? I'm not," said the
Churchwarden, drily. " No, Luke Ross, I like
you, for I believe you to be a clever scholar,
and — what to my mind's ten thousand times

better than scholarship — I know you to be a
true, good-hearted lad."

*' I thank you, sir," said Luke, whose heart
was sinking ; and Portlock went on —

I'm not a poor man, Luke, and every
penny I have I made with my own hand and
brain. Sage is as good as my child, and
when we old folks go to sleep I dare say she
and her sister will have a nice bit o' money
for themselves."

I never thought of such a thing as money,
sir," cried Luke, hotly.

I don't believe you ever did, my boy,"
said the Churchwarden. *^ But now listen.
Sage is very young yet, and hardly knows her
own mind. I tell you — there, there, let me
speak. I know she thinks she loves you. I
tell you, I say, that I'd sooner see Sage your
wife than that of any man I know ; but Ism not
going to keep you both, and make you sacrifice
your independence, and I'm not going to have
my child goto a Life of drudgery and poverty."

VOL. I. P

•' But you forget, sir, we should be both
having incomes from our schools."

No, I don't, boy. While you were young.
How about the time when she had children —
how then ? And I don't believe in a man and
his wife both teaching schools. A woman has
trot enough to do to make her husband's home
SO snug that he shall think it, as he ought todo,
the very best place in the whole world,
and she can't do that and teach school too.
Do you hear ? "

Yes, sir," said Luke, very humbly, though
he did not approve of his old friend's opinions.

Then look here, Luke Eoss, I like you,
and when you can come to nee and say,
Joseph Portlock, I have a good permanent
income of five hundred a year,' Sage, if she
likes, shall be your wife."

Five hundred a year, sir !" faltered Luke,
with a strange, unreal dread seeming to rise
before him like a mist of the possibility that
before then Sas^e's love might chancre.

*' Yes, my lad, five hundred a year."
'' Uncle," said Sage, opening the door, " Mr.
Mallow has called to see yon ; " and a strange
look passed between the two young men, as
Cyril Mallow entered the room.

P 2

CHAPTER XIII.

VISITORS AT THE FARM.

The morning of Mrs. Portloek's party, and
Uncle Joseph just returned from his round in
the farm, to look smilingly at the preparations
that were going on, and very tenderly at Sage,
who looked downcast and troubled.

Well, girls," he cried, ^' how goes it ?
Come, old lady, let it be a good set out, for
Sage here won't have much more chance for
helping you when these holidays are over."

I wish she'd give the school teaching up,"
said Mrs. Portlock, rather fretfully, as she sat
gathering her apron into pleats.

She can give it up if she likes," said the
Churchwarden, heartily. " It's her own whim."

Well, don't you fidget, Joseph, for Sage
and I will do our best."

Of course you will, my dears," he said.
Here, Sage, fill me the old silver mug with
ale out of number two."

But it is not tapped, uncle."

Ah ! " he shouted, *' who says it isn't
tapped ? Why I drove the spigot in night
before last on purpose to have it fine. And
now, old woman, if you want any lunch, have
it, and then go and pop on your black silk
and bonnet, while I order round the chaise,
'• and I'll drive you in to town."

No, Joseph, no," exclaimed Mrs. Portlock,
who had now gathered the whole of the
bottom of her apron into pleats and let them
go. "I said last night that I would not go
with you any more unless you left the whip at
home. I cannot bear to sit in that chaise and
see you beat poor Dapple as you do."

But I must have a whip, old girl, or I
can't drive."

Fm sure the poor horse goes very well
without."

But not through the snow, my dear," said
Sage's uncle, giving her another of his droll
looks. " Eeally, old girl, I wouldn't answer
for our not being upset without a whip."

But you wouldn't use it without you were
absolutely obliged, Joseph ? "

On my honour as a gentleman," said
Uncle Joseph ; and his wife smiled and went
up-stairs to get dressed, while Sage took the
keys to go down to the cellar and draw the
ale, as her uncle walked to the door, and she
heard him shouting his orders to Dicky Dykes
to harness Dapple and bring him round at
once.

Sage stood in the low-ceiled, old-fashioned
parlour, with the quaintly-made silver tankard
in her hand, waiting for her uncle to come
in. There was a smile upon her lip, and as
she listened now to the Churchwarden's loud,
hearty voice shouting orders to the different

men about the yard, and now to her aunt's
heavy footsteps overhead, she was gazing
straight into the great glowing wood fire,
whose ruddy flames flickered and danced in
the broad, blue-tiled chimney ; and though it
was so cold that the frost was making silver
filigree upon the window panes, she felt all
aglow, and kept on picturing in the embers
the future that might have place.

*' By George ! '^ roared the Churchwarden,
coming in. '^ Hallo ! didn't kick all the snow
oS. Here, let's melt it before the tyrant comes
down ;" and he shone all over his broad face,
and his eyes twinkled with mirth, as he held
first one boot and then the other to the blaze.
Now, the ale. Sage, my pet. Give's a kiss
first, darling, to give it a flavour."

He hugged her to his side, and gave her a
loud-sounding smack upon the lips, holding
her close to him as he smiled down in her
eyes.

And I used to grumble, my pet, because I

had no children," he said, tenderly, " little
thinking I should have Sage and Rue to take
care of till — Oh ! I say. Ha-ha-ha ! Look
at the colour. Poor little woman then. Was
he coming to-day ? "

^' Please don't tease me, uncle dear," she
whispered, as she laid her head upon his
shoulder, and hid her burning face.

^' I won't then," he said ; but she could feel
him chuckling as he went on. " I say
though. Sage. I've been thinking one ought
to have asked him to come and stay here for a
few days. Very hospitable, eh ? But hardly
conventual. That's not right, is it, schoolmistress
? No, no ; I mean conventional. No
you don't. I've got you tight," for Sage had
tried to run away.

Then please don't tease me, uncle."
But what will old Vinnicombe say ? "
Uncle dear," she whispered, appealingly.
There then, my pet, I won't," he said.
What time do you expect Jack and Rue ?"

By about four o'clock, uncle dear."

"That's right, my pet, and now you must
Justly. See that there's plenty of jolly good
fires, for I hate people to come and find the
place chilly. Let's give 'em a warm reception,
and I'll see if I can't fill up some of old
Yinnicombe's wrinkles out of his face. Let
me see, I want some more tobacco. Hah ! "
he cried, after a deep draught, " that's good
ale. Taste it, pet."

Sao^e took the tankard with a smile, raised
the creaking lid, and put her lips to it to
please him.

Fine, ain't it, lass ? "

'* Capital, uncle."

I say, Sage, if that don't make old
Vinnicombe smile I'm a Dutchman. By the
way, my dear, shall I ask Cyril Mallow to
drop in ? "

Uncle ! " cried Sage, turning pale.

Well, why not ? He has no pride in him,
not a bit. And if he wants gentlemen to

meet, why, there's Paulby and Vinnicombe.
Hang it all, my girl, if I liked to set up fora
gentleman I dare say I could, after you had
toned me down ^ and mended my manners, and
oiled my axles with grammar grease, eh ? "

Oh, no, no, uncle ; don't think of it," she
said, imploringly.

Just as you like, my dear ; 'tis your party
like, and it's for you to choose. He is a
bit cocky and priggish, and a bit gallant, but
my darling knows how to keep him in his
place."

'^ Oh, yes, uncle, of course," said Sage,
hastily ; " but Rue will be here, you know, and
it might set her thinking of his brother
Frank."

Hah ! Yes ; I had forgotten that," said the
Churchwarden, thoughtfully. " To be sure !
she did think a little about him, didn't she ?
Hullo ! "

'' I want Sage," cried Mrs. Portlock down
the stairs.

Yes, aunt, dear."

Hold that wrapper to the fire, my dear,
ready for your uncle," and she threw down
a great white cashmere beecher to her niece.

Here ! Hoi ! I say, old girl, I'm not
going to wear that thing."

Yes, dear, it's a very long drive, and the
air is very cold."

The Churchwarden sank into a chair, and,
raising the lid of the tankard, gazed into it
despondently.

Tyranny, tyranny, tyranny ! " he groaned.
Oh ! why did I ever marry such a woman
as this ? "

Now don't talk nonsense, Joseph," cried
his wife, rustling down into the room so
wrapped up that she looked double her natural
size, what with cloak, and boa, and a large
muff. ^' Put it round your uncle's neck, Sage,
the frost is very severe."

The Churchwarden threw his head back
ready for Sage to tie on the wrapper, uttering

a low moan the while, and then sighed ashe
stood up and walked — at first slowly and
then with alacrity — into the hall to put on
his hat.

'^ I can't get into my coat with this thing
on," he roared. " Come and give us a lift."

Sage ran laughingly into the hall to help
the great-coat on to his broad shoulders just
as the four-wheeled chaise came crunching to
the front door, Dapple giving a loud snort or
two, and stamping upon the frozen gravel.

Just then the Churchwarden gave a comical
look at his niece, rushed to the corner by the
eight-day clock, and made a great deal of
rattling as he took up the whip and gave ita
sharp lash through the air, and a crack on
the broad balustrade.

Sage heard her aunt start, and her uncle
chuckled.

"Now, old lady," he said. 'that's right,
Sage, plenty of rugs, or we shall have her
frozen. That's it, old sfirl, rio-ht leer first. Hold

his head still, Dicky. There you are ; tuck
that rug round you. There, that's better,"
he cried, taking his seat and fastening the
apron. " Let him go, Dicky. Tck ! "

He started Dapple, and then stood up in the
chaise with a quick motion, raising the whip
as he set his teeth, and seemed about to strike
the cob a tremendous blow, making Mrs.
Portlock jump and seize his arm, when he
subsided, looking round at Sage with a comical
expression in his eye, but pulled up short.

Here. Hi ! I say. Yah ! artful. Here
you, Luke Ross, you're three hours before
your time," he cried.

Yes, sir. I thought I might help a little,

and "

You thought you might help a little, and

G'on with you — get out. Belong ! " and

the Churchwarden flicked and lashed at Luke
Eoss, as he stepped to the side of the chaise
and shook hands, while Sage, with her heart
beating fast, drew back into the porch, seeing

her uncle begin poking at the new arrival
with the butt of the whip-handle.

Then the cob was started again with another
pretended furious cut, which made Sage's
aunt catch at her uncle's arm ; and then as,
frightened, fluttering, and yet happy, she saw
Luke coming towards her, the Churchwarden's
voice came roaring through the wintry air —

Here ! I say, Luke Ross, remember what
I said. I mean it — seriously."

Sage, my dear Sage 1 "

Those were the next words Sao^e Portlock
heard, as Luke took her hand to lead her,
trembling and nervous, into the hall.

I hardly hoped for such good fortune," he
cried, as Sage gently disengaged herself from
his clasp, and stood gazing rather sadly in his
face ; ** but oh ! pray, pray don't look at
me like that, darling. I'm here to go down
on my knees to you. Sage. There," he
cried, " I will, to beg pardon — to tell you I
was a weak, jealous fool — that I know you

could not help Cyril Mallow coming and
admiring you (he'd have been a fool if he
hadn't 1) — that you're the best, and dearest,
and truest, and sweetest, and most innocent-hearted
of girls — that I love you more dearly
than ever, and that I've been a miserable
wretch ever since last night."

Don't do that, Luke," she said, as he
literally went upon his knees ; "it hurts me."

And I'd suffer anything sooner than give
you a moment's pain," he cried, springing to
his feet ; and they stood now in the middle
of the old parlour. " But you haven't forgiven
me. Sage," he said, piteously.

Yes, Luke, I've forgiven you, but I want
you to know and trust me better. Your
words seemed so cruel to me, and if you knew
me you would not have said them. I did
not know that Cyril Mallow when he called
did so that he might see me, and we hardly
exchanged a dozen words."

And if you had exchanged a thousand.

sweet, what then ? " cried Luke, proudly. " T
was a jealous idiot, and ought to have known
better ; but it has been a lesson to me on
my weakness, and now I am going to wait
patiently till I can say what your uncle wishes."

Sage was silent, for she was thinking it washer
duty to tell him that, after the sad little
trouble that had come between them, it would
be better for them to be more distant for a time ;
but she could not say it with his eyes looking
appealingly at her. She had felt so proud
of him for his manly bearing and straightforward
honesty of purpose. The words would
not come, and somehow the next minute she
was sobbing in his arms as he whispered those
two words, but in such a tone —

''My darling!"

She started from him guiltily the next
moment, and ran up-stairs, and stayed till
there was a fresh crunching of wheels and the
trampling of a horse's hoofs, when nie came
down again to welcome her sister and her

husband, Holm Berry — a bluff, middle-aged
farmer to whom Kue had been married some
five years, and they had come now to spend
a few days, bringing their two little girls.

Ah, Luke, my man of wisdom, how are
you ? Sage, my dear, give us a kiss. Bless
you, how well you look. How am I ? Hearty,
and so's Rue.^'

Sage was kissing her sister affectionately
the next moment, heartily glad to see her
looking so rosy and well, but blushing redder
as she whispered merrily — •

Oh ! I am sorry we came and interrupted
you. You look so guilty, Sageyy. When's it
to be ? "

Not for years to come, dear," said Sage,
as she busied herself with Lofty and Totty,
their two golden-haired little children, who
were so wrapped up that they were, as John
said, warm as toasts.

He plumped himself into a chair directly,
to take one on each knee. Then Sage and

VOL. I. Q

Rue busied themselves in taking off pelisses
and woollen leggings, and reducing the little
things into a less rounded shape, while John
sat as stolid and serious as a judge, evidently
being very proud of his two little ones, ashe
was of his handsome young wife.

*' And now, John, you'd like a tankard of
ale, wouldn't you ? " cried Sage.

"Well, I don't know," said John, quietly;
a mug of squire's ale is nice, if Luke there
will have one too."

"Oh ! I'll join," said Luke, heartily ; and,
after drawing it. Sage went up with Rue
to her room, and she began to tease her about
Luke, but ended with an affectionate embrace.

I'd marry him any time, dear," she said,
'for I think he's a o:ood fellow and if you
are as happy as I am with dear old John
you will be satisfied."

But uncle has said that it is not to be
till Luke has five hundred a year," said Sage,
dreamily, " and that will not be for a longtime

; and — and, Eue, dear," she faltered, " I
I don't think I feel quite happy about it."

Stuff and nonsense, Sageyy ! Uncle will
come round. He wants to see us quite
happy."

But you misunderstand me, dear," said
Sage, thoughtfully. " I mean that I'm half
afraid I'm not doing right in letting Luke
Eoss believe I love him, because — because — "

Because — because you are a goose," cried
Eue, merrily. " I felt just the same about
John, and was ready to break it off, and now
I think him the dearest and best fellow under
the sun. Sage, dear."

"Yes, Rue."

'you are in the sugar-plum stage just now,
and don't know your own mind. I like Luke
Ross. He's frank and straightforward. Don't
play with him, for he's a man to be trusted,
and you're lucky to have him care for you."

Yes, I suppose so," said Sage, dreamily ;
but it is not to be for a long time yet."

Q 2

As she spoke she was t]] inking of the past,
and her sister's love affair with Frank Mallow,
who used to follow her whenever she was out
for a walk ; and then about the trouble at the
rectory, when Frank Mallow went off all on a
sudden. Of how poor Kue was nearly heartbroken,
and used to tell Sage that she would go
after him if he sent for her ; but he never even
wrote to her in spite of all his professions ; and
then they learned how badly he had behaved ;
and after that Rue never mentioned his name
but in a cjuiet subdued way, and at her uncle's
wish accepted John Berry — a man of sterling
qualities — and she had grown brighter and
happier ever since she had been his wife.

The final preparations were made and the
table spread long before the Churchwarden
and his wife came back, with the chaise loaded
up, and Mrs. Portlock protesting that she
would never go again if Joseph took a whip.

The culprit chuckled as Sage helped him
with his overcoat, shouting orders all the whiles

to Luke and John Berry, who were busy
bringing in the load of parcels till it seemed
wonderful how they could all have been
packed into the chaise.

At last the final packet was in, and the
cold air shut out : but hardly had the door
been closed, and they were standing laughing
at Rue's little girls, who were staggering in
and out of the great parlour with packets
which they carried by the string, than the
bell rang.

"Here's Yinnicombe !" cried Portlock, and
the doctor, in a fur cap tied down over his
ears, blue spectacles over his eyes, and his
tall lean form muffled in a long thick greatcoat,
came in, stamping his feet.

Here, help me off with this coat, somebody,"
growled the doctor. '' How do, girls ?
Take away those children, or I shall tread on
'em. Hate youngsters running about under
one's feet like black beetles. What have you
got there ? " he added, pointing to the parcels.

"Fal-lals and kickshaws. The old woman's
been pretty well emptying the grocer's shop."

Now, Joseph, that is really too bad," said
Mrs. Portlock, full of mild indignation. " Now
you know you would persist in buying three-parts
of what is there."

Humph ! Thought you fancied you were
going to be snowed up," growled the doctor,
shaking himself free of his coat, and holding
out first one leo; and then the other for Luke
to pull off his goloshes. " That's right, Luke
Ross ; I don't see why you young fellows
shouldn't wait on us old ones. I had lots
of trouble with you, you young rascal ;
fetched out of bed for you often."

Well, doctor," cried Luke, *' you see I'm
willing enough," and his cheeks flushed with
pleasure to find that in spite of the Churchwarden's
serious treatment of his proposals, he
was warmer than ever he had been before.

There, look sharp, girls," cried the Churchwarden.
" Come, old lady, take off" your

things. Sage, put the doctor in the chimney-corner
to thaw. He'll soon come round."

Dr. Vinnicombe shook his fist at the
speaker, and let Sage lead him to the glowing
fire, while the next moment the Churchwarden
was having what he called ^' a glorious cuddle,"
four little chubby arms being fast about his
great neck, and a couple of pairs of little
red lips kissing him all over his rugged,
ruddy face.

CHAPTER XIV.

THE BAD SHILLING.

Michael Ross, Luke's father, came soon
after with a couple of fellow townsmen, and
their chat about the state of affairs, social and
political, that is to say, the state of affairs in
connection with the rectory and the price of
corn, was interrupted by the call for tea.

The warm fire and the pleasant social meal
did make the doctor come round, and very
pleasant everything seemed as they afterwards
sat about the blazing fire. Sas^e noted how
happy and contented her sister was, with her
pretty young matronly face, as she sat by her
husband's side and seemed to glow with content,
as first one little golden-haired cherub

and then the other was seated on Dr. Winnie
knee, the soured old cynic telling
them tales to which they all listened with
almost childish delight.

Luke's heart was full of joy, and he kept
glancing across at Sage, who avoided his
gaze in a timid, cast-down manner ; but it did
not displease him, for he thought she was all
that was modest and sweet, and told himself
that he was proud indeed to have won such a
woman for his future wife.

Then there seemed to be a blank in the
room, for Sage left with her sister to put the
little ones to bed, Eue sending the blood
flushing into her cheeks as she half mockingly
said —

'^ How long will it be. Sage, before T am
helping you to put a little Luke and a little
Sage to sleep ? "

They were very silent directly after, and
Sage felt a kind of wondering awe as, in
obedience to a word from their mother, the

two little white-robed things, with their fair
hair like golden glories round their heads,
knelt at Aunty Sage's knee to lisp each a
little simple prayer to God to send his angels
to watch round their couch that nidit ; and
then back came Eue's merry words, and with
them wondering awe, almost dread, at the
possibility of such as these at her feet ever
calling her mother, and looking to her for
help.

They stayed for a few minutes to see the
children sleep, with their rosy little faces on
the same pillow, and then, with their arms
around each other, Sage and Eue, happy girls
at heart once more, descended to the diningroom,
where their aunt was telling Doctor
Vinnicombe about her troubles with her garden,
while their uncle's face was full of good-humoured
wrinkles as she spoke.

Here, girls," he said, putting down his
pipe, " come and comfort me while I'm being
flogged."

I'm not flogging you, Joseph," said Mrs.
Portlock, speaking in a serious, half-plaintive
way ; " but it will soon be time for Dicky to be
doing up my garden again, and I do say that
it is a shame that in my own ground you will
be always planting seeds and things that have
no business there."

"Never put in anything that isn't useful,"
chuckled the Churchwarden, with his arms
round his nieces' waists as they stood by his
side.

*' Useful, yes ; but you ought not to sow
carrot-seed amongst my mignonette, and plant
potato-cuttings in amongst my tulips and
heartless. I declare, doctor, if my verbena-bed
was not full of cabbage plants one day,
and when I pulled them up he had them set
again, and often and often I've allowed swedes,
and mangoes, and rape to get ever so big in
the garden before I've known what they

were."

He's a terrible rascal, Mrs. Portlock, that

lie is ; and if I were you Vd have a divorce,"
said the doctor.

Ah, do, old lady," chuckled the Churchwarden,
but he became serious directly as his
wife rose from her seat and went and stood
behind his chair, with her hands upon his
shoulders.

'^ A divorce ? " she said, smiling. " Thirty
years we've been man and wife, Joseph ; " and
he leaned back his head and said softly —

"Aye, dear, and I worked five years till I
was well enough off to give you a good home,
and please God we'll have thirty more years
together —-here, or in the better world."

Luke Ross felt that the words were meant
for him, and he tried to catch Sage's eye, but
she would not raise her face, and he sat
thinking that after all the farmer was
right.

There was a dead silence in the room
for some minutes, and then Dr. Vinnieombe
exclaimed —

Come, Churchwarden, here are Michael
Ross and I famishing for a game at whist."

"To be' sure," cried the Churchwarden.
Now, girls, let's have the card-table. My
word, what a night ! It's a nipper indeed.
Let's have another log on, old lady, and —
What the dickens is the matter with those
dogs 1 "

For just then, as the flames and sparks were
roaring up the chimney, the two dogs in the
yard set up a furious barking, growing so
excited, and tearing so at their chains, that
the Churchwarden went out to the door, opened
it, and a rush of cold, searching wind roared
into the room as he shouted —

Down, Don ! Quiet, Rover ! Who's there ? "

Port — lock, ahoy ! " came in reply, and
Rue turned pale, uttered a low moan, and
clung tocher sister, who trembled in turn as
another voice shouted —

"Call off the dogs, Mr. Portlock ; it is
only I."

Sage," whispered Kue, with her face close
to her sister's ear, " let us go away."

"Why, it must be Mr. Frank Mallow,"
cried Mrs. Portlock, excitedly, and she glanced
in a frightened way at her nieces.

Yes, that it is," she said, beneath her
breath, as a tall, dark man with a heavy beard
entered the room, closely followed by Cyril
Mallow.

Beg pardon," he said, in a curious, half-cynical
way. *' Didn't expect to see me, I
suppose. Only got back this afternoon ;
thought I should like to see all old friends."

Hearty glad to see you back again," said
the Churchwarden, frankly. "Sit down, Mr.
Cyril," he continued, as the new-comer shook
hands. " Take a chair, Mr. Frank. It's like
old times to see you here again."

Hah ! yes. How well you look, farmer,
and you too, Mrs. Portlock. Miss Sage, I
presume ? Why, what a change ! Grown from
a slip of a girl to a charming woman. And

how is Miss Eue Portlock ? " he said, with
mock deference, as he fixed the pale, shrinking
face with his dark eyes.

I am quite well, Mr. Frank, '^ said Eue,
making an effort to be composed, but not
taking the visitor's extended hand. '' John,
dear," she continued, turning to her husband,
'this is Mr. Frank Mallow, of whom you
have heard me speak."

Ah 1 to be sure," said John Berry. /' Glad
to know my little wife's friends. How are
you, sir — how are you ? "

Frank Mallow's eyes closed slightly, and
he gazed in a half-curious, contemptuous way
at John Berry as he shook hands, and then
turned to Luke Ross.

And is this Miss Sage's husband ? " he
said, laughingly, but in a sarcastic way that
turned Sage cold.

Well, no ; I am not Miss Portlock's
husband, Mr. Mallow," said Luke, smiling,
and taking the extended hand, his tone

saying plainly enough that he hoped soon
to be.

Ah, well, we all get married some time or
other," said the visitor, in a careless, unpleasant
way.

Have you got married then, my lad ? "
said the Churchwarden, reaching a cigar-box
from the fireplace cupboard.

'^ No, not yet," he replied, '* not yet. Cyril
and I are particular, eh, Cil, old man ? Become
over to fetch myself a wife perhaps.
Cigar ? Yes ; thanks. Take one, Cil ? Hah !
low cosy this old room seems ! I've spent
some pleasant hours here."

Aye, you've smoked many a pipe with me,
Mr. Frank. That was dien you were in your
farming days."

Farming days ? "

"Aye," chuckled the Churchwarden, 'sowing
thy wild oats, my lad."

Ha, ha, ha ! Why, Portlock, you're as fond
of a joke as ever. Ladies, I hope you won't

mind so much smoking," he said, puffing away
vigorously all the same, while Luke Eoss
gazed uneasily from one brother to the other,
till he caught Cyril looking at him in a
haughty, offended manner, when in spite of
himself his eyes fell.

Old folks surprised to see you, eh, sir ? "
said the Churchwarden, to break the blank in
the conversation.

'' Yes, preciously," was the short reply.

Humph ! ''

Frank Mallow, who was staring at Rue,
while his brother was trying to catch her
sister's eye, turned at this loud grunt and
smiled.

Oh, you're there ! " he exclaimed. " And
how is Doctor Vinnicombe ? "

'doctor Vinnicombe is in very good health,
and in the best of spirits," said the doctor,
sarcastically, *' for one of his old patients has
come back, evidently to pay a heavy bill that
his father refused to acknowledge."

VOL. I. R

Glad to hear it," said Frank Mallow.
And how have you got on, Mr. Frank ? "
said the Churchwarden. " I hope you've made
a better hit of it than Mr. Cyril there, and
after all the teaching I gave him about sheep."
*' Better hit ? Well, I hope so. Nice fellow
he was to come out to the other side of the
world, and never call upon his brother."

You took precious good care not to let
us know your address," retorted Cyril.

And what may you have been doing, Mr.
Frank ? " said the Churchwarden, who was
beginning to have an uneasy idea that the
visitors were not adding to the harmony of
the evening, and also recalling the ugly little
affairs that had to do with Frank's departure.
Doing ? "

*' Yes, sir ; did you try tillage ? "

Not I, farmer," exclaimed Frank Mallow,

staring hard at Rue, who kept her eyes fixed

upon the carpet, or talked in a low voice to

Sage, while bluff John Berry listened eagerly

for what seemed likely to be an interesting
narrative.

Let's see, Mr. Frank, you went to New
Zealand ? "

Yes, but I did not stay there ; I ran on to
Australia, and tried the diggings."

And did you get any gold, sir ? " said
John Berry, eagerly.

Pretty well," replied Frank Mallow ;
enough to buy and stock a good sheep farm ;
and now I'm as warm as some of them out
there," he added, with a coarse laugh, '' and
I've come back home for a wife to take care of
the house I've built."

" That's right, sir," said John Berry, nodding
his head, and smiling at Eue ; "nothing like
a good wife, sir, to keep you square."

Then you are not going to stay ? " said
the Churchwarden.

Stay ! what here ? No thanks ; I had
enough of England when I was here. Other
side of the world for me."

K 2

The Churchwarden was right in his ideas,
for, as the night wore on, Frank Mallow
seemed to be trying to pique Kue by his
strange bantering ways, while all the time he
was so persevering in his free attentions to
Sage that Luke's face grew red, and a frown
gathered upon his forehead.

Cyril saw it too, and as he found that
his brother's conduct annoyed both Sage and
Luke, he increased his attentions, laughingly
telling Frank not to monopolize the ladies,,
but to leave a chance for some one else.

And they call themselves gentlemen ! "
thought Luke Ross, as he listened gravely
to all that was said, and tried to keep from
feeling annoyed at the free and easy way of
the two brothers, who seemed to have put on
their Australian manners for the occasion, and
refused to believe in Mrs. Portlock being
troubled and her nieces annoyed.

They had the greater part of the conversation,
and thoroughly spoiled the evening, so

that it was with a feeling of relief that Luke
heard Cyril Mallow say —

Well, come along ; we must get back.
Past twelve ; and the governor likes early
hours in the country. '^

"Let him," said Frank Mallow, lighting his
fourth cigar.

*' But the mater said she should wait up to
see you before she went to bed," said Cyril.

Poor old girl ! then I suppose we must
go," said Frank, rising. '^ Ladies, I kiss your
hands, as we say in the east. Good night ! "

He shook hands all round, holding Eue
Berry's hand very tightly for a moment, at the
same time that her brother had Sage's little
trembling fingers in his clasp.

Good night, gentlemen ; you don't go our
way."

The next minute Mrs. Portlock uttered a
sigh of relief, for the dogs were barking at the
visitors whom Churchwarden Portlock was
seeing to the gate.

There's a something I like about that
young fellow," said John Berry, breaking the
silence, as the sisters stood hand clasped in
hand, with Mrs. Portlock looking at them in a
troubled way. " I've heard a good deal of evil
spoke of him, but a young fellow who is fond
of his mother can't be so very bad. Goodnight,
doctor ; good night, Mr. Ross ; goodnight,
Luke Ross. I'll walk with you to the
gate."

The " good night " between Luke and Shore
was not a warm one, for the girl felt troubled
and ill at ease, but Luke was quiet and
tender.

She's very tired," he said, " and I promised
her — yes, I promised her "

He did not say what he promised her, as he
went thoughtfully home, leaving his either
and Doctor Vinnicombe to do all the talking ;
but as they parted at the doctor's door in the
High Street, the latter turned sharply, and
said —

Good night, Luke Ross. I say, Michael
Ross, I don't think you need envy the parson
his good fortune in the matter of boys."

"I don't envy him, Luke, my boy," said
the little thin, dry old man, as soon as they
were out of hearing ; " and if I were you, my
boy, Ld have precious little to do with these
young fellows."

Don't be alarmed, father," said Luke,
laughing ; " they would think it an act of
condescension to associate with me."

No," he said to himself, as he stood at last
in his clean, plainly-furnished bedroom in the
quaint little market-place, ''I should be insulting
Sage if I thought she could care for
any one but me."

But all the same Luke Ross's dreams were
not of a very pleasant kind that night ; and
those of the two sisters of a less happy
character still.

CHAPTER XV.

THE PRODIGAL SONS.

To look at the red-brick gabled rectory,
with its rose and wistaria-covered trellis-work,
the latter at its season one mass of lovely
pendent lavender races, and the former in
some form or other brightening: the house
with blossoms all the year round, it might
have been thought that it was the home of

o

peace and constant content. The surrounding
gardens were a model of beauty, the Eector
sparing no expense to make them perfect in
their way ; but he had long enough before
found that beauty of garden and choicest
interior surroundings would not bring him
peace.

His' first crreat trouble had been the illness
of his wife, who, after the birth of Cynthia,
had for years and years been taken to this
famous specialist, to that celebrated physician,
and from both to springs all over the Continent,
till, finding no relief, Mr. Mallow had
yielded to the suffering woman's prayer.

"It is hopeless, dear," she had said, with a
calm look of resignation in her pensive eyes.
Let us go home, and I will pray for strength
to bear my lot."

They returned then, and it was for her sake
that the garden was made to bloom with
flowers, and the hothouses to produce the
most delicious fruits. Their income was arose
from private resources, while the Lawford
living was good, so that all that money could
bring to alleviate the suffering woman's trouble
was there, and the Rector was almost constantly
at her side.

But Fate, as has been said, who had endowed
the Rev. Eli Mallow with wealth, a

handsome presence, and with good intellect,
had not been chary in the matter of what commercial
people term set-offs. Trouble besides
his wife's sickness came upon him thickly,
principally in the persons of his handsome,
manly-looking sons.

Frank had been a difficulty from childhood.
He had not been more spoilt than most boys
are, though certainly his invalid mother had
l:>een most indulgent ; but there was a moral
bias by nature in his disposition, which somehow
seemed to make him, just as he 'was
apparently going straight for a certain goal,
turn right off in a very unpleasantly-rounded
-^ curve.

Quite early in his youth he had to be
recalled, to save expulsion from a certain
school, on account of his heading a series of
raids upon various orchards, and in defiance of
divers corrections on the principal's part.

He had to return home from his two next
schools for various offences against their rules,

and finally his college career came to an end
with rustication.

Frank laughed, and said that he did not
know how it was. One thing, he said, was
evident : he was not cut out for the church,
and he would not go back to college when the
term of his rustication was at an end.

A clerkship was obtained for him then,
through great interest, in the Treasury, and
here for three or four years he got along pretty
well, the confinement not being great, and the
number of friends he met with being of a
character to suit his taste.

There were bounds, though, even in those
days, to the limits accorded to a gentlemanly
clerk of good birth, and when Frank took to
absenting himself from the office for a week at
a time, matters became serious.

For the first time or two the plea of illness
was accepted, but when another absence
occurred, also from illness, and Mr. Frank
Mallow was seen by his superiors riding a

showy-looking hack in the park, and was
known to have given a bachelors' party in the
same week, to which several fellow-clerks were
invited, it became necessary to hint to the
peccant youth that the next time he was
unwell, a certificate to that effect would be
necessary from some well-known medical man.

Frank was ill again, so he sent in word to
the office, and stayed away for another week,
after which, on presenting himself, he received
a warning — one which he bore in mind for a
couple of months, and then his head must have
once more been very bad, for there was a fresh
absence, and this endured so long that Frank's
seat in the Treasury knew" him no more.

Well, it don't matter, mother," he said.
*' It was a wretched set-out, and I was sick
of the eternal copying."

^' But it was such a pity, dear," his mother
said, in a tone of remonstrance.

"Pity? Stuff! Eighty pounds a year,
and a rise of ten pounds annually ! Not

bricklayer's wages, and all the time people
think it's such a tremendous thing to be a
Treasury clerk."

Poor papa is so vexed and grieved, for he
took such pains to get you the appointment."

Then poor papa must get pleased again,"
said the young man, petulantly. " T cannot,
and I will not, stand a clerk's desk. I'd
sooner enlist."

Frank ! " cried his mother, reproachfully.

Well, r declare I would, mother," he said,
thrusting his hands into his pockets, and
walking up and down the room.

To find freedom ? " said his mother, with
a smile.

Oh ! I dare say there would be discipline
to attend to, and officers to obey; but there
would be some change. I should not have
to be tied down to a wretched writing-table,
copy, copy, copy, the whole day long."

Change 1 " said Mrs. Mallow, and she gazed
wistfully in her son's face.

Yes, of course ; one must have some
excitement."

He stood gazing out of the window, and
did not notice the strange despairing look in
his mother's eyes, one which seemed to tell
of her own weary hours — weary years, passed
upon that couch, with no hope of change save
that of some day sinking into the eternal
rest. It was evident that she was contrasting
the selfishness of her son and his position
with her own, and she sighed as she closed
her eyes and lay there in silence for a time,
uttering no reproach.

Then came the day when the Rector was
goaded almost to madness by the young man's
follies, and the reports constantly reaching his
ears of Frank's exploits at the principal hotel
in billiard-playing and various unsavoury pursuits
with one or other of the young farmers
round. Reports these that lost nothing doubtless
in the telling, and which never failed to
reach the Rector in a way that seemed to

suggest that he was answerable for his son's
misdoings.

Then followed other troubles, culminating
in an affray with the keepers, an affair which,
from the family friendship with old Lord
Artingale, could easily have been hushed up;
but the Rector jumped at the opportunity he
round in his son's dread and evident anxiety
to get away from the neighbourhood, so quite
in a hurry Frank was shipped off to New
Zealand.

And there was peace at the Rectory ?
Nothing of the kind. There was the misery
of hearing endless little stories of Frank's
carrying on," as they were termed ; some
bill was constantly being brought to the
house, with a request that the Rector would
pay it, and, to hide his son's disgrace, this he
sometimes did. But the annoyance was none
the less, and the Rector used to declare plaintively
to his wife that if it were not for Julia
and Cynthia he would run right away.

And for me, Eli," said the suffering woman,
with a smile.

And for you, dear," he said, tenderly, and
there was peace until some new peccadillo of
the eldest son was discovered.

Then to the Eector's dismay he found that
Cyril — his mother's darling — seemed to have
taken a leaf out of his brother's book. If
the younger brother's career had been to run
upon a tram-line laid down by his elder
brother, he could not have followed in the
course more truly, and just as the Rector
was beginning; to feel calmed down and
happy in the society of his two pretty
daughters, troubles concerning Cyril kept
cropping up.
^ " Nice chaps for a parson's sons," said

Jabez Fullerton, the principal draper at Lawford,
who could afford to speak out, as Mrs.
Mallow and her daughters sent to Swan and
Edgar's for everything. And he did speak out ;
for, as deacon at his chapel and occasional

preacher, he never lost an opportunity of
saying a few words by way of practice.

Nice chaps for a parson's sons ! This is
the sort of stuff they send to college, and
then send back to teach us, in their surplices
which we have to pay for the washing of,
though we never go to church. Nice fellows
they'll be to preach sermons — out of books
too — read 'em. We at chapel never read our
sermons, eh ? "

There was a murmur of acquiescence here,
and Mr. Jabez Fullerton felt happy.

Not that the Eev. Eli Mallow had thought
of making his sons clergymen after testing
them for a short time. Cyril had, like his
brother, been to college, and with a view to
his succeeding to the living of Lawford, but,
as in the case of Frank, the Rector soon gave
him up in despair.

Matters grew worse ; then worse still.
Expostulation, prayer, anger, all were tried
in vain, and, having to bear the trouble to a

VOL. I. S

great extent in silence, so as to hide it from
the sick mother, who idolized Cyril, the Rector
was at times almost beside himself.

At last there came a crash, and the Rector
determined to get this son away before 
should result.

Emigration was being much talked of just
then, and plenty of young men were going
out to the various colonies to commence life
as squatters both in the far east and west.
A couple of the young farmers of the neighbourhood
of Lawford were about to start, and,
after a stormy scene with his father, Cyril
came one day to propose that he should be
furnished with a little capital and an outfit, so
that he could go and try his luck in Australia.
For a few moments the Rev. Eli Mallow
was aghast at the idea. He wished Cyril to
leave the town, but not to go abroad.

I don't care where I go," said Cyril ; '* I'll
either try Australia, or go and hunt out Frank
and chum with him."

"But we don't know where he is," said
the Eector.

New Zealand."

Yes, but New Zealand is large."

"Not so large but what a fellow might
find out Frank. Everyone would know him."

The Eector sighed, and wished his sons
were not so popular with a certain class, and
then he thought over the position, and shrank
from giving his consent. Knowing the
mother's intense love for her son, he felt that
the parting would nearly break her heart,
and after a few moments' pause he said so.

Oh, you need not fidget about that," said
the young man. '' I've talked to her about
it for days past''

'^ And what does she say ? "

*' Well, it upset her a bit at first, but she
soon came round, and she thinks it would bethe
best thing I could do."

It was then with a sense of relief that made
him feel ashamed, that the father, after a

S 2

liberal endowment of money, saw his son
sent from Liverpool, after the heartiest
promises on the part of the young man to do
battle with life and make himself a name and
a position in the colony.

*' If not for my sake, Cyril, for your
mother's,'^ the father had said, as he held
his son's hand upon the deck of the Great
Central liner.

Depend upon me this time, father," was
the earnest reply, and Cyril went his way
across the sea, fully believing in himself that
his wild oats were sown, and that now he
was about to make a position of substantial
basis for himself.

It was a strange thing, and as if a curious
kind of clairvoyance made him prophetic, for
the Rev. Eli Mallow want home, and that
evening busied himself over his next Sunday's
sermon, involuntarily choosing the parable of
the Prodigal Son, and not waking up to the
fact of what he had done till he sat there in

his study reading the manuscript over by the
light of his shaded lamp.

Give me the portion of goods that falleth
to me," he muttered in a low voice, as, with
the manuscript in his hand, he sat gazing
straight before him into the darker part of
the room, and then became silent.

And took his journey into a far country,"
he muttered again, in the same dreamy abstracted
manner, and then there was a longer
pause, followed by a deep sigh.

The Rev. Eli Mallow rose slowly from his
seat, and, with an agonized look in his face,
walked up and down the room for some time
before sinking back into his chair.

"And there wasted his substance with
riotous living."

It did not seem to be his voice that spoke in
the silence of that room ; but he knew it was
his that exclaimed piteously as the king of old —

Ah, Cyril, my son, my son 1 "

Again there was absolute silence in that

room, till, quoting once more from the parable
which he had made the subject of his discourse,
the Rector said softly —

Father, 1 have sinned against heaven and
before thee, and am no more worthy to be
called thy son'

"Yes, and I should forgive him'' he continued,
after a pause. " I do try to practise
as I preach. Poor Cyril ! poor wilful boy.
1 pray heaven that my thoughts have been
doing thee wrong."

There was a gentle smile upon his lips then
as he took the manuscript of his sermon and
tore it up into very small pieces before consigning
it to the wastepaper basket.

'* No," he said, " I must not preach a
sermon such as that : it is too prophetic of
my own position with my sons ; " and as we
know this prodigal did return penniless, having
worked his way back in a merchant brig, to
present himself one day at the rectory in
tarry canvas trousers, with blackened horny

hands and a reckless defiant look in his eyes
that startled the quiet people of the place.

He made no reference as to his having
wasted his substance ; he talked not of sin,
and he alluded in nowise to forgiveness, to
being: made as one of his father's hired
servants, but took his place coolly enough
once more in the house, and if no fatted calf
was killed, and no rejoicing held, he was
heartily welcomed and forgiven once again.

He was his mother's favourite, and truly,
in spite of all, there was forgiveness ready in
the father's heart. As there was also for
Frank, who after some years' silence had
suddenly walked in at the rectory gates,
rough-looking and boisterous, but not in 'such
a condition as his brother, who had quite
scandalized the men-servants, neatly clad in
the liveries, of which a new supply had come
from London, greatly to the disgust of
Smithson in the market-place, who literally
scowled at every seam.

CHAPTER XVI.

AT THE king's HEAD.

*' What I say is this," exclaimed Jabez
Fullerton. ** Justice is justice, and right is
right'

Hear, hear ! " murmured several voices, as
Mr. Fullerton glanced round the room, and
drew himself up with the pride of a man
who believed that he had said something
original.

I hope I'm too good a Christian to oppose
the parson," he continued, '' and I wouldn't
if it had been Mr. Paulby, but it's time we
stopped somewhere, gentlemen."

'* Hear, hear ! " again ; and several of the
gentlemen addressed took their long pipes

from their mouths to say it, and then, replacing
them, continued to smoke.

*sever since parson has been back he has
been meddling and interfering. First he kills
poor old Sammy Warmoth. Broke his heart,
he did. Then he makes Joe Biggins saxon, a
man most unfitted for the post, gentlemen. I
say a man most unfitted for the post."

Hear, hear ! "

Chap as is always looking at you as if he
wanted to measure you for a coffin," said
Smithson, the tailor.

"Natural enough," said the Churchwarden,
chuckling; 'you always look at our clothes,
Smithson, ehV

Aye, I do. Master Portlock, sir ; but I
don't want you to die for it. I want you to
live and grow stout, and want new suits, nota
last one." ^

'"' Stiff", hard suit o' mourning, eh, Smithson,
made o' wood ? "

Yes, sir, well seasoned ; vellum, eh ? "

There was a general laugh at this lugubrious
joking, and Fullerton tapped impatiently with
his pipe-bowl upon the table.

I say, gentlemen, a most unsuitable man,"
he continued.

Who would you have had then ? " said
(churchwarden Portlock.

** Why Thomas Morrison, the wheelwright,"
said Fullerton, "if you must have a churchman."

Yes, a good man," was murmured in
assent.

Then he must be pulling the church all to
pieces, and quarrelling with the curate, and
refusing to bury his dead. We wouldn't have
refused to bury our dead at chapel, gentlemen."

"Not you," chuckled Portlock. "You'd
like to bury the lot of us, parson and all."

Gentlemen, this is begging the question,"
said Fullerton, with plump dignity, and he
settled his neck in his white cravat. " What
I say is, that I have no enmity against the
parson, neither have you."

Nay, ii^y/' said Wanton, the saddler, who
had the rectory pair-horse harness on his mind,
the new double set, that he saw, by the name
on the packing-case, came from Peak's ; " we
only pity him. He has plenty of trouble wi'
those two boys of his. I hear the Bad Shilling's
come back now."

"Aye, he's back," said Smithson. " I've got
a pair of his trousers to mend. One never
gets anything to make. Up at thy place last
night, wasn't he, Master Portlock ? "

The Churchwarden nodded.

*' Nice boys ! " said Smithson. " Essay the
father was like 'em, for the girls really are
nice, like their mother."

Then he was twice as hard as he need be
on Jock Morrison," continued Fullerton, who
would finish. "Fancy sending a man to gaol
for three months just when his brother's got a
death in the house."

Fair play," cried Portlock. " The bairn
died afterwards."

Well, maybe it did," said Fullerton, " but
he needn't have been so hard on the poor
bairn's uncle. Why not give him another
chance ? He's no worse in his way than the
parson's boys are in theirs."

Boys will be boys," said Smithson, who
wondered whether that pair of trousers to
mend might result in an order for a suit.

Fullerton was impatient, and cut in almost
before the tailor had finished.

'clergymen's all very well in their way,
gentlemen, but the dismissing of old schoolmasters
and appointing of new ones don't seem
to me to be in their way, especially where
there's governors to a school."

Parson's a governor too," said War ton,
the saddler.

Ex officio' said Tomlinson, the ironmonger,
who kept the bank.

Of course, of course," acquiesced Fullerton,
who had not the least idea of what ex officio
meant ; " but 1 said it before, and I said it to

parson's own face, just the same as I'm saying
• it here behind his back, and any man who
likes can tell him what I sid," and he looked
round defiantly as he spoke ; " what I say is,
that, whatever Humphrey Bone's faults may be,
he's as good a land measurer as ever stepped."

'* Yes, he is that," said a broad farmer-looking
man. *' Joseph Portlock, you said the
very same thing to me yesternight."

He's a first-class penman."

Capital," said Tomlinson.

** And if you know a man with a clearer
head for figures," continued Fullerton, " I
should be glad to see him."

'' Capital man at ciphering," said Smithson,
the tailor, whose yearly accounts Humphrey
Bone always made up.

Then, what do you want ? " said Fullerton,
angrily. " We've all got our faults, and if
Humphrey Bone does take a little too much
sometimes, hasn't he been master of Lawford
school these thirty years ? "

The latter part of Jabez Fullerton's argument
was not very clear to his fellow-townsmen
assembled at their weekly social meeting
at the King's Head ; but they all granted that
they had their faults, and Jabez Fullerton
waved the spoon with which he had been
stirring his bran dy-and-water in a very
statesmanlike way.

Look here," he said, " I never go to
church, for chapel's good enough for me ; but
all the same I don't bear enmity against the
church, and never would."

But you did oppose the church rates,
Fullerton," said Tomlinson, with a chuckle.

On principle, neighbour, on principle ; I
couldn't help that. But in this case wdiat I
say is, that though I'd be the last man in the
world to oppose parson, it would be a disgrace
to the town if we let poor Humphrey Bone be
pitched out of the living, just because parson
wants the place for Churchwarden Boss's boy

"Well, I don't know what to say about it,"

said Tomlinson, smoking meditatively at his
pipe. " Michael Ross is a very good neighbour
of mine, and brings | his money to our
bank regular. I should be sorry to hurt his
feelings, 'specially as his boy has been to
London on purpose to be trained."

Let him get a school somewhere else.
There's always plenty on the way, I'll be
bound."

Don't seem to me as the boys '11 take to a
lad as was brought up, as you may say, among
'em," said Smithson. " Bless my soul, gentlemen,
I made that boy his must suit with three
rows o' brass buttons, with marigolds stamped
on 'em. Bottle-green the suit was, and the
trousers buttoned over the jacket. You
know, Fullerton ; I had the cloth of you."

Oh, yes, I know," said the draper suavely.

Well," continued Smithson —

Excuse me, Smithson," said Fullerton,
we're just discussing the question of Mr.
Mallow carrying everything with a high hand,

and turning out old Humphrey Bone without
our consent."

Smithson, the tailor, jumped up, scowled
round at the assembled company, stuck his hat
upon his head with a bang, and walked straight
out of the room.

He's huffed," said Fullerton, with a side-wise
wag of the head, *' but I can't help his
being offended. When a man becomes a
public man, he's got a public man's booty todo
to his fellow townsfolk, and at times like
this he's bound to speak. So what I say,
gentlemen, is this ; will you all come to the
meeting tomorrow, and back me up ? "

No one spoke, and it was remarkable that
every man present just then seemed to feel his
mouth dry, and reached out his hand for
his glass.

I say again, gentlemen," cried Fullerton,
will you all come and back me up ? "

Every man present seemed to consider that
it was the duty of the others to speak out and

tackle Fullerton — so they mentally put it —
and each looked at the other in turn without
avail, till the regards of all present seemed to
be concentrated upon Tomlinson, the ironmonger,
who after a little hesitation said —

I don't think it was wise to upset Smithson.
It's like sending a man over to the enemy."

*^ I hope he hasn't got a long bill against
you for clothes, Fullerton," said Wanton, the
saddler, with a chuckle. "You'll have it in
before it comes due."

If I owned my tailor a bill I dare say I
could pay it, Mr. Wanton," said Fullerton,
haughtily ; " and I should be glad to know,
gentlemen, whether you mean to discuss the
question of the appointment of a new master,
because if you don't I shall throw the whole
matter up."

Oh, no, no, no," came in a murmur ;
"don't do that, Fullerton," and an appealing-look
was directed at Tomlinson, who drew a
long breath, refreshed himself, and went on.

VOL. I. T

*' You see I don't think it would be wise to
go and upset Mr. Mallow if we could help it,"
he said ; " he's a \»ery good customer of mine,
and very neighbourly. I don't think he's a
bad sort of man."

"Not a bad sort of man !" cried Fullerton,
indignantly ; " why, it's a burning shame for
him to have charge of this parish at all.
What's a parson for ? "

Well," said Tomlinson, mildly, " I suppose
to have the care of the parish."

Yes, and to rule and manage it," said
Wanton.

Yes," cried Fullerton, " of course ; and
here's a man who can't raanas^e his own
household, which is the wastefulest in the
place."

"Might keep your family on what they
waste, eh, Fullerton ? " said Wanton, the saddler,
With a chuckle, for he was a ojreat friend
of Smithson ; and it was a fact often commented
upon by neighbours, that Fullerton's

domestic economy was of the most parsimonious
character.

I'm not the man to eat the parson's
leavings," said Fullerton, angrily, " nor yet
the man to go cringing and touching my hat
to him in hopes of getting a harness-mending
order."

Mr. Wanton refilled his pipe.

I say," continued Fullerton, " that a man
who can't rule his own sons can't properly
rule a parishes

Nay, nay, nay," cried Tomlinson ; " don't
be too hard upon him, man. He's a very
good sort of fellow is Mallow, and I should
be very sorry to go against him."

But you will go against him," said
Fullerton, triumphantly ; and he looked very
hard in the ironmonger's face.

Mr. Tomlinson's pipe needed seeing to just
then, and he let his eyes rest upon the
glowing fire therein, as he recalled certain
little speculative money transactions that had

T 2

taken place between him and Fullerton, and
felt how awkward it might be if he offended
his fellow-townsman.

It would be very awkward to have to side
against the Eector, but of two evils Tomlinson
felt bound to choose the least.

I'm afraid that in this instance I must
go against Mr. Mallow," said Tomlinson,
deliberately ; and Fullerton gave a triumphant
glance round the room.

Hah ! " he said to himself, *' there's a
wonderful power in money, and one never
knows what it will do."

Chapter XVII.

THE governors' MEETING.

Market morning again at Lawforcl, and the
customary business going on. There were a
few pigs in the pens ; a larger amount of
butter than usual at the cross, some of it
holding a good two ounces of salt to the
pound. A sale by auction of some old furniture
was to take place, and gigs, cars, and
carts were coming in.

The rectory carriage, with Julia and Cynthia
Mallow looking sweet and attractive enough
to tempt the tradespeople who quarrelled
with the father to touch their hats, came in
quite early, setting down the Eector, who had
to visit the bookseller's and order a new

volume for the society library, and soon after
he was on his way to the chief point of
attraction that morning, to wit, the special
meeting of the governors of Lawford School,
with the Eector in the chair.

The meeting, according to custom, had
been called for the vestry-room, which would
only comfortably hold six, and then adjourned
to the King's Head, where the townspeople
and those interested in the important event
were gathered in force.

Thirty years before, when Humphrey Bone
obtained his appointment, only three people
were present — to wit, the then rector of the
parish and a couple of governors. But there
was no opposition in those days. Dissent had
not taken so strong a hold on the little town,
and the disposition for making a party fight
over every trifling matter had not grown
into the ascendant.

On this particular day, however, though
to a man every one present, whether Nonconformist

or supporter of Church and State,
would have stoutly denied that party feeling
or local politics had anything to do with
his presence, it was very evident that there
were two opposing sides, and that the meeting
was pretty evenly divided between the supporters
of the Rector, who believed in the time
being come for the appointment of a new
master, and those who nailed their colours
to the mast old style, and openly declared
that any change made must be for the worse.

Humphrey Bone was there one of the first,
making the boards echo with his thick boot,
and it was noticed that the said boot had
been thoroughly blacked, that Humphrey was
well shaved, his hair had been cut, and that
he had on a clean white shirt.

Fullerton was there, too, talking to him
aside, and Tomlinson, Smithson, and Wanton
soon put in an appearance, one and all looking
as important and solemn as if the constitution
of the country were at stake, in place of so

mild a question as that which was to he
settled — whether Humphrey Bone was to be
superseded, or not.

The room was growing pretty full. Michael
Boss, the tanner, had entered, followed by
his son, who looked very pale and determined,
speaking in a quick, decided way to Portlock,
the churchwarden, who came up and shook
hands with both his father and him in turn.

Then the Rector entered, followed by Cyril,
who sauntered into the room with a careless
air, nodding at first one and then another,
till his eyes met those of Luke Ross, when
he started slightly, but returned the keen
fixed gaze with one full of angry resentment
before looking down.

Then there was a little bustle and settling
down in seats as the Rector took the chair.
The vestry clerk opened a big calf-skin
covered book, stuck a new quill pen behind
his ear, and drew the ink a little nearer to
him, when there was a breathless pause,

during which all who could looked from Luke
Eoss, the young, to Humphrey Bone, the old
as if they were the champions of the two
causes assembled here, and as though they
were expected to come forward in front of
the Eector's chair and do battle manfully for
the post.

Then the Eector quietly announced that
the meeting that day was for the purpose
of confirming the appointment of the new
master to the boys' school, and also to accept
the resignation of the late master, Mr.
Humphrey Bone.

Never resigned," shouted that individual ;
and he involuntarily wiped his mouth, as if
to remove all traces of his having been
seeking for support at the King s Head bar.

Mr. Mallow frowned slightly, and there
was a low buzz of satisfaction on one side
of the room.

Didn't resign, and don't want to resign,"
said Humphrey Bone more loudly, being

encouraged by the looks of approbation lie
received.

And to confirm the dismissal of Mr.
Humphrey Bone from the office of master
of the school," said the Eector, firmly. " I
beg pardon, gentlemen, I was under the
impression that Mr. Bone had resigned. I
may add, gentlemen, that the preliminaries
have been settled at the former meeting, and
all that is requisite now is for a majority of
the governors to sign the minute that the
clerk to the vestry will prepare. If any
gentleman has a remark or two he would like
to make, we shall be most happy to hear him."

Yes, that's easy enough to say," whispered
Wanton to Smithson. " He's used to speaking
in public. I always feel as if my heart's
getting into my mouth."

'* Mr. Fullerton, I think, wishes to address
you, gentlemen," said the Eector, smiling and
sitting down.

Mr. Fullerton looked as if he would have

liked to strangle the Eector for that smile.
It was a perfectly innocent smile, in no wise
directed at the would-be speaker, but it
seemed to Fullerton that the Rector was
ridiculing him, and it put him off his text
for the moment, but he recovered himself,
and in a very florid speech, full of wanderings
from the point, opposed the appointment of
a new master on the ground that Humphrey
Bone having been duly nominated and
appointed, unless he had in some special way
become unfit for his post, the Rector had
no right to dismiss him.

Mr. Bone uttered a very loud " Hear, hear ! "
Two more of the townsmen, followers of
Fullerton, rose in turn to speak, but were
silenced on the spot by the announcement
of the Rector, that this was not an ordinary
meeting of ratepayers, but of the governors
of the school, who alone had a right to
make any motion and speak to the proposition
before the meeting.

This being so, Tomlinson was forced into
action by his neighbour, and in smooth tones
regretted that he was compelled to go in
opposition to " our worthy Rector," but,
etcetera, etcetera, etcetera, he must object
to the appointment of so young a man as
Mr. Luke Ross to so important a post, and
after a long speech, in which he went round
and round the subject a dozen times, he ended
by declaring that he should vote against the
appointment.

To his annoyance, the Rector, as the
meeting went on, found himself undoubtedly
in the minority, and he felt bitterly the
position in which Luke Ross had been placed.

Just then, however, a couple of the
governors, upon whom he knew that he could
depend, entered the room, and the tables, he
felt, were turned.

Luke had been sitting, chafing at every
word that had been said against his appointment,
and every now and then, as he met

Cyril Mallow's eye, it seemed to him to be
full of triumph at his discomfiture.

Then, too, he kept glancing at Portlock,
and as he did so the bluff, wealthy farmer's
words came back, mingled with the contempt
he seemed to feel for the pittance that was
to be the young master's for the first few
years.

Five hundred a year — eye hundred a year
seemed to keep repeating itself to Luke
Ross, as his eyes once more met those of
Cyril Mallow, whose countenance wore a
decided sneer.

Then now, gentlemen, I think," said the
Rector, " we will proceed to vote."

Stop ! " cried Luke Ross.

It was on the impulse of the moment. He
had had no such thought when he entered
the room.

We will hear you, Mr. Ross, after the
voting is over," said the Rector, quietly.

No, sir," replied Luke, ** I must ask you

to hear me first. I have decided not to
accept the post."

There was a dead silence in the room fora
few moments after Luke Eoss's decisive
words, a silence broken by Humphrey Bone,
who relieved the excitement under which he
laboured by starting from his seat, and bringing:
his thick-soled boot down with a tremendous
clump upon the floor.

Do I understand you to say, Mr. Eoss,
that you decline the post ? " exclaimed the
Eector.

'' Yes, sir, definitely," replied Luke. '' I
could not, under the circumstances, think of
accepting the appointment."

There was another pause here, and then,
led by Fullerton, the opposition party broke
into a loud cheer.

"Silence if you please, gentlemen," exclaimed
the Eector, with a greater show of indignation
than any one present remembered him to have
displayed. " This is no time for showing

party feeling. Of course, as Mr. Ross declines
to accept the appointment "

"But he don't," cried old Michael Ross,
he wants time to think it over."

Hush, father," exclaimed the young man,
firmly, " I know my own mind, Mr. Mallow,
I am sorry to have given all this trouble, and,
as it were, placed you in a false position ; but
until a few minutes back I did not see this
matter in the light I do now, and I definitely
decline the post."

Your action does you great credit, young
man," said Fullerton, pompously ; '' and I am
glad to congratulate my fellow-townsman,
Michael Ross, on the possession of such a son."

Your compliment is misplaced, sir," said
Luke, coldly, " for my action in this matter is
in nowise creditable to me. But that is my
affair, and it need not be discussed."

Mr. Fullerton scowled on receiving this
snub, and he was about to make some angry
retort, but the Rector said at once —

a ri

Then, gentlemen, we need say no more,
unless you wish to discuss the question of Mr.
Bone's dismissal." •

I claim," said Fullerton, " that he cannot
be dismissed."

A majority of the school governors have
the power to dismiss him, Mr. Fullerton,"
replied the Rector, with dignity ; and after a
few more words he left the chair, the meeting
being declared adjourned until application had
been made to one of the institutions for
another master.

'^ I am sorry to find that you have come to
such a decision, Mr. Eoss," said the Rector, ashe
encountered Luke outside the inn.

'^ I was sorry to come to such a decision,
sir," replied Luke ; " but, believe me that I
have been in no way influenced by those who
seem to be in opposition to you, and I hope
that you will persist in Humphrey Bone's
dismissal, and the appointment of another

man."

The Rector bowed and walked on with his
son, who raised his hat slightly to Luke, that
salute being returned as the young men's eyes
met once more, each reading in those of the
other a growing dislike which must some day
ripen into enmity.

Then they passed on their several ways,
both having the same object in view.

VOL. I. u

CHAPTER XVIII.

DOUBTS.

It was nearly twelve o'clock, and m spite of
her efforts, Sage Portlock's thoughts had wandered
a good deal from the work she had in
hand. It was the morning upon which Luke
Ross's appointment was to be confirmed, and
her face flushed as she thought of the time
when he would be conducting the next school,
and the future looked very rosy and bright,
for she told herself that in secret she was very
fond of Luke.

Julia and Cynthia Mallow had been thereto
take a class and chat with her for a few
minutes, Cynthia being ready with a sly allusion
to the business upon which papa had
been left.

We are going to pick up papa after he has
fastened your schoolmaster. Sage," she said ;
but first of all we are going to drive over to
the farm and see Mrs. Berry and the little
ones. When does she go away ? "

To-morrov\^, Miss Cynthia," said Sage,
turning rather white, '* and — and she is not
very well. Would you mind not calling,
Miss Julia ? "

Oh, no, certainly not'' said Julia ; " but I
am sorry. Give our kind love to her, Sage,
and say we will drive over to Lewby some day
and see her there."

Thank you. Miss Julia," said Sage, and
she gladly saw the school visitors depart, with
the intention of o;oino^ on to the ford.

Sao^e sighed as she stood at the door and
saw the sisters get into the handsomely appointed
carriage that was waiting, and then
she wished that she had asked them when
they were going back to London, for it
seemed to her that both she and Eue would

U 2

feel happier and more at ease if the Mallow
family were gone.

Then she recalled her last meeting with
Luke at home, and his words upon learning —
a short conversation interrupted by her aunt
that there was to be no engagement until
he had realized a better income than would
accrue from the schools.

That does not matter," she said, brightening
up. " Luke is so brave and determined,
and has such spirit, that he will soon become
rich enough for us to marry, and, of course,
we can wait."

There was no impatience in Sage's love for
Luke Ross. She told herself that she was
very fond of him, and some day they would beman
and wife, but when did not seem to her
to matter, and she busied herself once more,
light-hearted enough, with the children.

Then came the beginning; of another train of
thought, and there was once more a slight
flush in her cheeks as her mind turned to

Cyril Mallow, his coming to the school with his
father, his meeting and speaking to her once
or twice when she was leavings school, and
then, too, of his coming to the farm to sit, and
smoke, and talk with her uncle.

The colour deepened in her cheeks a little
more as she thought of all this ; but, directly
after, she drove these thoughts away, and
busied herself with the conclusion of the
morning lessons.

Twelve o'clock, and the buzz and hurry of
the dismissal, and then the pleasant scent of
the cool outer air as the windows were thrown
open, and again the bright elasticity of feeling
as, well wrapped in warm furry jacket and
with her natty little, not-unfashionable hat
setting off the freshness of her complexion and
youthful looks, she started for her brisk walk
along the lane and across the field to the
farm.

She had to pass Mrs. Searby's cottage on
her way, where that worthy woman with

upturned sleeves was standing at the open
door in converse with another of the mothers
whose children attended the school.

Good morning," said Sage, as she passed
them, and the second woman returned the
salutation ; but Miss Searby's mamma replied
by giving her an uncompromising stare, and
saying aloud before the young mistress was
out of hearing —

Ah, she's going to meet young Cyril
Mallow. Nice goings on, indeed, for one like
her."

Sage's cheeks turned scarlet as she hurried
on, and a strange feeling of shame and confusion
troubled her. It was nothings that she
was perfectly innocent of any such intent, she
felt horribly guilty all the same, and it was
only by a great effort that she kept back the
hot tears of indignation.

Then her conscience smote her with the
recollection that she had thought a good deal
of Cyril Mallow lately, and she asked herself

whether she was turning traitorous to Luke
Ross, but only to indignantly repel the self-inflicted
charge.

It was monstrous, she told herself. She was
sure that she loved Luke very dearly, as she
always had from a child, when he had beeii
like a brother to her. Some day when he had
climbed higher she would be his wife, for she
was sure her uncle never meant all that he
had said. He was too fond of her, and too
eager to do all he could to make her hajDpy.

Such a shameful thing to say 1 A wicked
woman ! " exclaimed Sage then ; " as if I ever
thought Oh ! "

She quickened her steps with her face growing
scarlet once more, the red flush having
died out to leave it pale, for there were footsteps
behind her coming on quickly, and it
was Cyril Mallow, she felt, hurrying to catch
her ; and that was why the spiteful woman
had spoken in that bitter way.

The steps were coming nearer in spite of

Sage's efforts to get home before she was overtaken.
Pat, pat, pat, pat I just as her heart
was beating with excitement. She felt frightened,
she hardly knew why, and dreaded being
overtaken by Cyril, who seemed to have obtained
some power over her that she could
not understand.

He was very pleasant spoken, and frank,
and manly-looking, but she did not like him
nor his ways, for she was sure that he was a
bad son.

I wonder whether he would try to improve
if I asked him, and pointed out how wrong it
is of him to be so much trouble to his parents,"
thought Sage ; and then she shivered with a
strange kind of dread.

Why had she thought all that ? What was
Cyril Mallow to her ? It was only out of
civility that he had spoken to her as he had,
but she felt that it was out of place, and that
Mr. Mallow would not have approved of it at
all, and — and it was very dreadful.

As a rule, Sage Portlock was a firm, determined
girl, full of decision and strength of
character, but the words of the spiteful woman
seemed to have quite unnerved her, and With
the sense of being very guilty, and of having
behaved treacherously to Luke Eoss, she had
hard work to keep from starting off, and
breaking into a run.

'' And he is coming on so quickly," she
thought. " He will overtake me before I get
to the gate. How dare he follow me about
like this, aud why is not Luke here to protect

me !

Sage Portlock's excitement had thoroughly
mastered her, and she uttered quite a hysterical
little cry, as the steps drew quite near now,
and a voice exclaimed —

Why, Sage, I almost had to run."

"Luke!"

Yes ; Luke," he replied, smiling, as he
took her hand in his. " Who did you think
it was ? "

'' I — I — didn't know ; I wanted to get home
quickly," she faltered. " I did not know it
was you."

I know that," he said, drawing her hand
through his arm, " or else you would have
stopped, wouldn't you ? "

"Why, of course, Luke," she said, smiling
in his face, and with a calm feeling of rest and
protection coming over her disturbed spirit.

I'm glad I caught you," he said. " Let's
walk slowly, for I've a great deal to say to you
before you go in."

But, first of all, tell me, Luke, dear," she
cried eagerly, " is the appointment confirmed ?"

''No."

No ? Not confirmed ? Then, that wicked
old Bone "

"That wicked old Bone of contention," he
said, laughingly taking her up, '^ has had very
little to do with it. At one time I thought
that it would be very cruel to take his post,
but I do not think so now."

But not confirmed, Luke ? " she cried,
stopping short and clinging to his arm, the
picture of bitter disappointment. " Why, this
is the meaning, then, of the opposition uncle
spoke of yesterday. Who has dared to stop
you from having the school ? "

You," said Luke, as he gazed admiringly
in her animated face.

'^ I, Luke ? I ? " she exclaimed, in a puzzled
way.

Well, it is through you, dear," he said,
smiling.

"But I have done nothing, Luke," she cried.
You are teasing me ! Has the meeting
taken place ? "

'' Yes ; I have just come from it."

Well ? Mr. Bone was there I know, for
he gave the boys a holiday, so that he might

come."

Yes, he was there, evidently looking upon
me as the greatest enemy he had in the world
till he heard me decline the post."

You ? — you declined the post, Luke ? "

'^ Yes, I declined the post''

And you told me you loved me," she said,
reproachfully, as she drew back.

"As I do with all my heart," he cried,
taking her hand, and drawing it through his
arm once more. " Sage, dear, it is because I
love you so well that I have declined to take
the school."

When it was so near," she cried ; and her
tears seemed to have stolen into her voice.
*' And now you will go and take a school ever
so far away. Oh, Luke," she cried, piteously,
'^ it is too bad I "

*' Hush, little one," he said, firmly. " It is
not like you to talk like that. I shall not
take a school far away, though I shall have
to leave you. Sage, dear, I have felt that
I must give up present pleasure for a future

joy."

I — I — don't understand you," she cried ;
your talk is all a puzzle to me."

Is it, dear ? There, it shall not be long.
You know what your uncle said to me the
other day ? "

*' Oh, yes, Luke ; but I don't think he
quite meant it."

** I am sure he did mean it," he replied ;
and he is quite right. For the past year I
have been learning lessons of self-denial, and
been taught to place the schoolmaster's duty
above questions of a pecuniary kind ; but your
uncle has placed my position in a practical
light, and, Sage, dear, it is as if all the past
teachings has been undone."

'* Oh, Luke, Luke," she cried, ^' don't talk
like that ! "

I must. I have had another talk with
your uncle. This morning I overtook him, and
he asked me, as a man, whom he says he can
trust, to set aside all love-making, as he called
it in his homely Saxon-English, and to treat
you only as a friend ! ' Let matters stand for
the present, and see what a couple of years

bring forth, if you are doing well he said, ^ in
your new position.' "

^' In your new position, Luke ? Why, what
do you mean ? "

Sage, dear, I have decided to set aside the
idea of beinsr the master of a school."
Oh, Luke ! "
And to read for the bar."
'' Head for the bar ? "

Yes, read for the bar : become a barrister ;
and I shall work hard to win a name."

*' But the school, Luke — the training college.
It is not honest to take advantage of their
teaching, gain all you can, and then take to
some other career."

You think that ? " he said, smiling.
Yes, of course," she said, indignantly.
*' The principal at Westminster spoke very
warmly about two of the students giving up
their schools directly, and taking situations as
governesses in o^ood families."

I quite agree with her," said Luke, quietly ;

and I have appraised the cost to the institution
at fifty pounds. That sum I feel bound to send.
It is quite as much as so bad a master as I
should have turned out is worth."

Oh, Luke, that is nonsense' she cried, as
she looked proudly in his face.

*nay," he said, 'rit is truth. And now
listen to me. This has all been very sudden."

Yes, and you never said a word to me."

I came and told you as soon as I knew,"
retorted Luke, firmly. 'rand now I say once
more this has been very sudden, but it is
irrevocably in obedience to your uncle's wishes.
I shall exact no promises from you, tie you
down in no way, but go away in perfect
faith that in a few years as the reward of my
hard struggle, and when I can go and say to
your uncle, ' See, here, I can command the
income you said that I ought to have ! ' you
will be my little wife."

But must you go away, Luke ? " she said,
with a pitiful look in her eyes.

'' Yes, it is absolutely certain. How could
I climb up in the world if I stayed here ? "

But I don't want you to go," she cried,
excitedly.

And I don't want to leave you," he said,
fondly*

I want you to stop and protect me, and
take care of me and keep me for yours, Luke."

Don't — don't talk like that," he cried,
speaking hoarsely, " or you will make me
forget my promise to your uncle. Let us be
firm and true, and look the matter seriously in
the face. It is for our future, and I pray and
believe that I am acting wisely here."

But you weill be away," she said, with
a piteous look in her eyes. *' There will be
no one to take care of me when you are
gone."

Nonsense, little one," he exclaimed.
There is your uncle. What have you to fear ?
Only be true to me."

Oh, yes, yes," she sobbed ; " but you do

not know, Luke. I might be tempted, I
might be led away from you — I might "

Might ! " he said, with scorn in his voice.
"My little Sage, whom I have known from
the day when she gave me first her innocent
sisterly love, could not be untrue to the man
she has promised to wed. Sage, dear," he
continued, holding her hands in his, and
gazing in her agitated, tearful face, " look at
me — look me fully in the eyes."

Yes, Luke," she said, hesitatingly ; and her
pretty, troubled face looked so winning that it
was all he could do to keep from clasping her
in his arms tightly to his own trusting breast.

Now," he said, smiling, " you see me.
Can you doubt, dear, that I should ever be
untrue to you ? "

"No, no ! oh, no, Luke," she cried.

Neither could I, dearest," he said, softly.
I am a very plain, impulsive man, wanting,
perhaps, in the soft speech and ways that are
said to please women ; but I think my heart

VOL. 1. X

is right, and that in spite of my quiet ways I
love you very, very dearly."

*' I know, I know you do," sobbed the girl.

Yes, and I trust you, my dear," he said.
I know that you could never give look or
word to another that would cause me pain."

"No, no, dear Luke, I could not," she
sobbed ; " but I want you with me. I cannot
bear for you to leave me helpless here."

Nonsense, my little pet," he said, tenderly.
The years will soon slip by, and then all will
be well. There, we understand each other, do
we not ? "

Yes, yes, Luke, I think so," she sobbed.

One kiss, then, darling, the last I shall
take, perhaps, for years, and then "

Oh, no, not now — not now," she cried,
hastily, as he sought to take her in his arms in
the sheltered lane. " Uncle is comines with
Mr. Cyril Mallow ; " and then she manned
passionately to herself, " Him again ! Oh,
like, Luke, I wish that T was dead."

CHAPTEE XIX.

Julia HORROR.

Two young men leaning over the park
railings on a bright spring morning, when the
soot-blacKened, well-worn grass that had been
suffering from a winter's chronic cold was
beginning to put forth its tender green shoots
and dress itself for the season.

The rather muddy drive was on one side,
the Serpentine on the other, and indications
that London was coming to town could be
seen in the increasing string of carriages.

One of the young men was undoubtedly
dressed by Poole — well dressed ; and he looked
worthy of his tailor's care. Frank, manly,
handsome, there was a pleasant look in his

X 2

grey eyes ; and if his fair moustache had not
been quite so heavy, a well-cut firm mouth
would have been better seen. Perhaps that
very glossy hat was worn a trifle too much on
one side, and with the well set up appearance
it suggested military, but the gold horse-shoe
pin with diamond nails directly after hinted
equine : the result being a compromise, and
the looker-on concluded cavalry.

The other was of a heavier build, and was
decidedly not dressed by a good tailor. He
was not shabby, but careless ; and while his
companion was carefully gloved, he carried his
hand-shoes in his hands, and certainly his hat
had not been touched by a brush that morning.
He was a good-looking, manly fellow, with
very short hair and a very long beard, thick
enough to hide three parts of his chest.

The judge of human nature who had tried
to read him at a glance, would, if right, have
said, '' Good fellow, somewhat of a cynic, don't
care a sou for appearances."

Two of the characters in this comedy, to wit,
Henry Lord Artingale, man of fashion with a
good income ; and James Magnus, artist of a
manly school, who had cut deeply his mark
upon the time.

Another character was seated upon a bench
some twenty yards away, cutting his mark,
not on the time, but upon the park seat, with
an ugly, sharp-pointed clasp-kni.^o, which he
closed with a snap, and then threw one great
leg over the newly-cut wood, as he seemed to
feel more than see the appearance of a policeman,
who ran his eye shrewdly over the fellow
as if considering him a " party " likely to be
"wanted."

Jock Morrison looked decidedly like the
proverbial fish out of water as he stared sullenly
about, but not as one might stare who
finds himself in an incongruous position by
accident. About the only ill-dressed person
in his neighbourhood, Jock seemed in no wise
abashed, nor yet the worse for his course of

imprisonment, his dark beard having rapidly-grown
and got well over the blacking-brush
stage so affected by the Parisian *' swell."
Far from seeming abashed, Jock Morrison was
ready with a cool, defiant look for every one
not in the law, and as a rule those who stared
at the great swarthy fellow once were satisfied
not to repeat the look.

Jock was evidently in the park for a purpose,
and every now and then his eyes wandered
over the lines of carriages, but without seeing
that of which he was in quest, and as soon as
the policeman was gone he once more opened
his knife, and began to carve, handily enough,
a new design — this time a couple of hearts
locked together after the time-honoured
fashion shown in a valentine.

That's about as picturesque-looking a
blackguard as I've seen for months," said
Magnus, looking across the road at where the
fellow lounged. " I wonder whether he'd
come and stand for me."

H'm, yes," said his companion ; " nice-looking
youth."

He'd make a splendid bull-fighter in a
Spanish scene."

H'm, bull-dog fighter, I should have said,
Mag. By the way, I'd have a certificate from
the baths and wash-houses before I admitted
him to the studio. He looks disgustingly
dirty."

Yah 1 horrible 1 Take me away, Harry.
I feel as if I were going to be sick."

*' Why, what's the matter now ? "

Talk about that great blackguard looking
disgusting : here's my great horror ! "

What, Perry-Morton ? "

Yes. Look at his hideously fat, smooth
face, and his long greasy hair tucked behind
his ears. Look at his open throat, and —
confound the animal, yes — a crimson satin tie.
Harry, I shall be had up one of these days
for an atrocious assault upon that creature.
1 shall lie in wait for him like a bravo, and

armed with a pair of new scissors I shall
cut his hair. Is it possible to prevail upon
him to go about clothed, and in his right
mind ? "

'* For shame, Jemmy ! and you a brother
artist."

'' Brother artist be hanged ! You don't call
that thing an artist."

*' Why, my dear boy, he's acknowledged in
society as the apostle of the poet-painters'
school."
"Good God!"

My dear boy, do restrain yourself," laughed
the other.

I can't help it. I do like a man to bea
man, and for goodness' sake look at that
thing."

That thing," as Magnus so contemptuously
dubbed him, was certainly striking in appearance,
as the open carriage in which he was
riding came to a standstill, and he signed
to the footman to let him out. For as he

descended it was to stand upon a very thin
pair of legs that in no sense corresponded
with his plump, white, boyish face.

It was a handsome, well-appointed carriage
from whose front seat he had alighted, the
back being occupied by two ladies of between
twenty and thirty, who looked as if their
costume had been copied from a disinterred
bas-relief; so cold and neutral were
their lines that they might have been lady
visitors to the Grosvenor Gallery, instead of
maidens to whom the word " aesthetic " was
hardly known. For the Grseco-Eoman extended
to their hair, which stood out from
their foreheads, looking; sinned and frizzed
as if scorched by the burning thoughts that
were in their brains ; for even in those days
there were ladies who delighted to belong to
the pre-raphael cum fleshly school of painting
and poetry, and took pains to show by
their uniform that they were of the blessed.

As the footman folded the steps and closed

the door, the gentleman — to wit, Mr. Perry-morton,
of St. Agnes', Park Road — posed
himself in an artistic attitude with one arm
upon the carriage-door, crossed one leg over
the other, and gazed in the faces of his sisters,
one delicately gloved hand in correct harmony
of tint playing with a cambric handkerchief,
specked with toy flowers of the same tone.

As he posed himself, so did the two ladies.
The nearer curled herself gracefully, all but
the legs, in a catherine style in the corner
of the carriage, and looked at her brother
sweetly through the frizz of hair, as if she
were asking him to see if there were a
parting. The further drooped over formally
in a manner that in another ordinary being
would have suggested crick in the neck, but
here, as with her brother and sister, everything
was so deliciously unstudied — or well studied
that she only gave the idea of a bending
flower — say, a bud — or a pallid virgin and
martyr upon painted glass.

Oh, Lord ! " said Magnus, aloud.

'* Hush ! don't. Come along, though.
Gently, man, or they'll see us, and we shall
have to talk to the girls."

Fm an ostrich," said the artist ; " my head
is metaphorically buried in sand. Whatever
my pursuers see, I am blind."

As it happened a group of people came
along, and under their cover the two young
men escaped.

He is an awful fool," said Artingale, '^ but
the people believe in him."

*' Bah ! so they will in any lunatic who
makes himself fashionably absurd. I'll be
reasonable, Harry, though that fellow has half
driven me wild with his airs and patronage.
He gave me a thumping price for one of
my pictures, for he's immensely rich. Then
he had the impudence to want me to alter it
the composition of months of hard, honest
study — and began to lecture me on art,"

From his point of view."

'' Yes, from his point of view. But as I
said, I will be reasonable. There is a deal
in this pre-Raphaelitism, and it has done
its part in reviving some of the best of the
ancient art, and made its mark on our schools
of to-day. But there it was not allowed to
stop. A pack of idiots — there, I can call
them nothing else — go into frantic worship
of all the worst portions of old art, and fall
down and idolize things that are ugly, ill-coloured,
and grotesque'*

True, magnate ! and they'll grow worse."
"They imitate it in their paintings, drawing
impossible trees, landscapes, and houses for
backgrounds, and people their foregrounds
with resurrections in pigment of creatures
that seem as if they had been dead and
buried for a month, and clothe them in
charnel-house garb."

"Bravo I charnel-house garb is good."
'' Thankye, Colonies junior," said the artist ;
I tell you, Harry, I get out of patience with

the follies perpetrated under the name of art,
to the exclusion of all that is natural and
beautiful and pure. Now I ask you, my dear
boy, would you like to see a sister of yours
dressing up and posing like those two guys
of girls ? "

** Haven't got a sister, worse luck, or you
should have her, old fellow."

"Thanks. Well, say, then, the woman you
loved."

Hush ! stop here, old fellow. Here they

come."

Who ? Those two stained-glass virgins ? "
No, no, be quiet ; the Mallow girls."
There was so much subdued passion in the
young man's utterance that the artist glanced
sidewise at him, to see that there was an
intensity of expression in his eyes quite in
keeping with his words, and following the
direction of his gaze, he saw that it was
fixed upon a barouche, drawn by a fine
pair of bays, which champed their bits and

flecked their satin coats with foam as they
fretted impatiently at the restraint put upon
them, and keeping them dawdling in a line
of slow-moving carriages going east.

There was another line of carriages going
west between the two young men and the
equipage in question, and Magnus could see
that his companion was in an agony of dread
lest his salute should not be noticed, but,
just at the right moment, the occupants of
the barouche turned in their direction,
acknowledged the raised hat of Lord Artis
and, the pace just then increasing, the
carriage passed on.

Feel better ? " said Magnus, cynically.

Better ? yes," cried the young man,
turning to him flushed and with a gratified
smile upon his face. " There, don't laugh
at me, old fellow, I can't help it."

I'm not going to laugh at you. But you
seem to have got it badly."

'' Awfully," replied the other.

Shouldn't have thought it of you, Harry.
So those are the Mallow girls, eh ? "

"Yes. Isn't she charming ? "

What, that girl with the soft dreamy
eves ? Yes, she is attractive."

No, man," cried Artingale, impatiently ;
that's Julia. I mean the other."

What, the fair-haired, bright-looking little
maiden who looks as if she paints ? "

'' Paints be hanged ! " cried Artingale,
indignantly, " it's her own sweet natural
colour, bless her."

Oh, I say, my dear boy," said Magnus,
with mock concern, '^ I had no idea that you
were in such a state as this."

'' Chaff away, old fellow, I don't care. Call
me in a fool's paradise, if you like. I've
flirted about long enough, but I never knew
what it was before."

"Then," said Magnus, seriously, "you are
what they call — in love ? "

'' Don't I tell you, Mag, that I don't care

for your chaff. There, yes : in love, if you
like to call it so, for I've won the sweetest little
girl that ever looked truthfully at a man."

And the lady — does she reciprocate, and
that sort of thing ? "

I don't know : yes, I hope so. I'm afraid
to be sure ; it seems so conceited, for I'm not
much of a fellow, you see."

Let's see, it happened abroad, didn't
it?"

'' Well, yes, I suppose so. I met them
at Dinah, and then at Baden, and afterwards
at Rome and in Paris."

Which means, old fellow, that you
followed them all over the Continent."

Well, I don't know ; I suppose so," said
the young man, biting his moustache. " You
see, Mag, I used to know Cynthia when she was
little and I was a boy — when the governor was
alive, you know. I was at Harrow, too, with
her brothers — awful cads though, by the by.
She can't help that, Mag," he said, innocently.

Why, Artingale, it makes you quite
sheepish," laughed the artist. ''I wish 1
could catch that expression for a Corydon."

For a what ? "

Corydon — gentle shepherd, my boy."

Get out ! Well, as I was telling you, old
fellow, I met them abroad, and now they've
come back to England, and they've been down
at the rectory — Lawford Rectory, you know,
six miles from my place. And now they've
come up again."

So it seems," said Magnus, drily.

Chaff away, I don't mind," said Artingale.

Not I ; I won't chaff you, Harry," said the
other, quietly. **'Pon my soul I should miss
you, for you and I have been very jolly
together ; but I wouldn't wish you a better
fate than to have won some really sweet,
lovable girl. It's a fate that never can be
mine, as the song says, and I won't be envious
of others. Come along."

**No, no, don't let's go, old fellow. They'll

VOL. I. . Y

only drive as far as the corner, and then come
back on this side. Perhaps they'll stop to
speak. If they do, I'll introduce you to Julia ;
she's a very nice girl."

'* But not so nice as, as "

Cynthia," said the other, innocently,
No : of course not."

Magnus burst out laughing, and his friend
looked at him inquiringly.

I could not help it, old fellow," exclaimed
Magnus ; " you did seem so innocent over it.
Put never mind that. Plunge head foremost
into the sweetest life idyll you can, and,
worldly-minded old sinner as I am, I will
only respect you the more."

He spoke so sincerely, and in such a feeling
tone, that the younger man half turned and
gazed at him, saying directly after —

'* Thank you, old fellow ; I'm not demonstrative,
so just consider that I have given
you a hearty grip of the hand."

All right," was the gruff reply. " Hallo !

here comes my brigand. By Jove, he's a fine-looking
specimen of the genus homo. He's six
feet two, if he's an inch."

Jock' Morrison, who seemed at home beneath
the trees, came slouching along with his hands
deep in his pockets, with a rolling gait, the
whole of one side at a time ; there was an
end of his loose cotton neckerchief between his
teeth, and a peculiar satisfied smile in his eye
which changed to a scowl of defiance as he
saw that he was observed.

I say, my man," said Magnus, " would
you give me a sitting, if I paid you ? "

*' Would I give you what ? " growled the
fellow. " I don't let out cheers."

Before Magnus could explain himself, the
man had turned impatiently away, and gone
on towards Kensington Gardens.

Ha ! ha ! ha ! " laughed Artins^ale. '' Our
friend is not a model in any way. Have a
cigarette, old fellow ? "

The artist took one, and they stood smoking

Y 2

for a few minutes, till Artingale, who had
been watchfully looking in the direction of
the Achilles statue, suddenly threw down his
half-smoked cigarette, for the Mallow carriage
came into sight, and, as the young man had
hoped, a voice cried " stop ! " and the coachman
drew up by the rails.

Ah, Harry ! " cried Cynthia, leaning
forward to shake hands, and looking very
bright and charming in the new floral
bonnet that had caused her such anxiety
that morning ; "I didn't know you had come
up to town."

Didn't you," he replied, earnestly. " I
knew you had. I went over to the rectory
yesterday, and saw your brothers."

Oh, Harry ! " cried Cynthia, blushing with
pleasure.

It didn't matter ; I drove over to do the
horse good," said the young man, shaking
hands warmly with Julia in turn. " Here,
let me introduce my friend Magnus. Julia,

this is James Magnus. Cynthia, Magnus the
artist."

Lord Artingale has often spoken of you,
Mr. Magnus," said Cynthia, looking at him
rather coquettish, in fact as if she was better
used to London society than the quietude of
a country rectory. " He has promised to
bring me some day to see your pictures."

I shall only be too proud to show you
what I am doings," said the artist, meetings
frankly the bright eyes that were shooting
at him, but which gave him up directly as a
bad mark, as he turned and began talking to
Julia Mallow, who seemed to have become
singularly quiet and dreamy, but who brightened
up directly and listened eagerly, for lie
found that Magnus could talk sensibly and
well.

** Are you going to stay up long ? " said
Lord Artingale, gazing imploringly in Cynthia's
eyes.

*' I don't know, indeed," she replied,

pouting. ^' Papa has brought mamma to see
a fresh physician, but is so cross and strange
now. He has been reforming the parish, ashe
calls it."

'' Yes ; so I heard," said Lord Artingale,
laughing.

And that has meant quarrelling with all
the stupid townspeople, and setting them
against us."

Not against you, Cynthia," said the young
man in a low voice. " I don't believe that."

Don't talk nonsense, Harry," she replied,
laughing ; " not now. But really it is very unpleasant,
you know, for it makes papa so cross."

Of course it would," said Lord Artingale,
sympathizing.

And he talks about being so poor, and
says that we shall all be ruined, and makes
poor mamma miserable."

But he is not in want of money, is he ? "
cried the young man, eagerly.

Nonsense ! No : that's how he always

talks when Frank and Cyril are at home.
Oh, Harry, I'm afraid they are dreadful boys."

Well, let's try and make them better, eh,
Cynthia ? "

I said you were not to talk nonsense now,"
said Cynthia, shaking her pretty little head
at him.

Oh, murder ! " he exclaimed, suddenly.
Hadn't you better drive on ? Here's
Perry-Morton."

No, no," exclaimed the younger girl, " it
would look so rude. You silly thing, don't
blush so," she whispered to her sister ; " it
looks so strange."

'' Good — morning — " said the subject of the
thoughts of the group ; and Mr. Perry-Morton
descended poetically upon them, for he did
not seem to walk up like an ordinary being.
"Cynthia," he continued, with an air of affectionate
solicitude, and leaving out the full-stops
he had placed after his two first words,
*' you look too flushed this morning, my child.

Julia, is not the morning charming ? Did you
notice the effect of light and shade across the
water V

Julia Mallow, who looked troubled and
bored, replied that she had not.

"You observed it, of course, Mr. Magnus?"
continued the new-comer, with a sweet smile.

No," said the gentleman addressed, shortly.
I was talking to the ladies."

Ah ! yes," said Mr. Perry-Morton, sweetly ;
and he held his head on one side, as if he
were posing for a masculine Penseroso. " But
Nature will appeal so to our inmost heart."

"Yes, she's a jolly nuisance sometimes,"
said Lord ArtiDgale, but only to evoke a
pitying smile from Mr. Perry-morton, who,
in spite of the decidedly annoyed looks of
Cynthia and her lover, leaned his arm upon
the carriage door, and began talking to Julia,
making James ]magnus look like Harry Hotspur
must have appeared when the " certain
lord" came to him, holding the " pounce

Ijox, which ever and anon he gave his

nose."

Cynthia Mallow made a pretty little grimace
at Artingale, and, then turning with a smile
to the worshipper of Nature, she stretched out
her hand for the check-string so unmistakably
that the gentlemen drew back, and raised their
hats as the carriage rejoined the stream.

Won't you come and speak to the girls,
Artingale ? '' said Mr. Perry-Morton in a softly
imploring tone ; and suppressing a sigh of
annoyance, the young man suffered himself
to be led off with his unwilling friend, while
the carriage went slowly on towards Kensington
Gardens, stopping with the stream again and

again.

*' Julia," cried Cynthia, flushing with annoyance,
as soon as they were alone, " has papa
gone mad ? "

Hush ! the servants will hear you," said
her sister, reprovingly.

I can't help it, dear, it makes me so

excited that I can't bear it. How you can let
that hateful creature come and patronize and
monopolize, and seem to constrict you as he
does, like a horrible short fat snake, I can't
imagine. Papa must be going mad to encourage
it. If he were as rich as Cassius or
Croesus, or whatever the man's name was, it
ought to be no excuse. I declare if you do
not pluck up spirit and make a fight, I will.
You can't like him." '.

Oh, no," cried her sister, with a look of
revulsion.

Then you must —-you shall put a stop to
his pretensions. Why, I declare to-day he
behaved before Harry's friend as if he were
engaged to you. I felt as if I'd have given my
pearls to have been at liberty to box this ears."

*' I think him detestable," said Julia, sadly.

"Then you shall speak up, dear, or I w411.
I declare I'll revolt, or no — carry shall shoot
him. I shall command him never to approach
our presence again till he has rid society of

that dreadful monster with his Nature worship
and stuff. Good gracious, Julia, what is the
matter ? "

The carriage had stopped, as the younger
sister prattled on, close by the railings near
the Gardens, and Julia Mallow crouched
shrinking in the carriage, gazing with a horrified,
fascinated fixity of eye at the great half-gipsy
-looking vagabond, who, with his folded
arms resting upon one of the iron posts, and
his bearded chin upon them, was staring at
her in an insolent mocking fashion.

The spell only lasted for a few moments
before the carriage went on, and with a low
hysterical cry, Julia caught at her sister's hand
to whisper hoarsely —

Oh, Cynthia, that dreadful man again ! "

END OF VOL. I.

3 0112 045832455

h:'" 15^' ^

I!h:

■(»-•

!ii:

f-ij:.

^<^^

t^:

OF THE

U N Diversity

or ILLINOIS

cy o

ELI'S Children

FOL. JL

SALISBURY

Mnrkbig Hl^n's f liberal Club.

This Book must not be kept longer than

fourteen days, or a fine of 3d. will be

inflicted.

^i %'oiitcUs of ail aiv^iipH larailg.

GEORGE MANVILLE Penn,

AUTHOR OF
"THE VICAR'S people;" "THE PARSON O' DUMFORD," ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOLUME II.

LONDON :
CHAPMAN & HALL, Limited, 11, Henrietta ST., W.C.

1883.

{^All Rights reserved

CONTENTS OF VOLUME 11.

^00 k I. — (Continued.)

CHAPTER XX.

PAGE

JOCK Morrison's threat . . . 1

CHAPTER Xxi,'

AT Kirby FARM . . . . 16

CHAPTER XXII.
Cynthia's knights . . . . 27

CHAPTER XXIII.



clerical difficulties . . . 42

CHAPTER XXIV.

Page

A Now " . . . . .t4

CHAPTER XXV.

WHERE CYRIL WExVT . . . . . - . 77

CHAPTER XXVI.

AX Interruption . . . . 87

CHAPTER XXVII.

AFTER A PIPE . . . . 114

CHAPTER XXVIII.

.JOCK MUSES . . . . 128

CHAPTER XXIX.

MR. AND THE MISSES PERRY-MORTON " AT HOME " 144

CHAPTER XXX.

A LITTLE NARRATIVE . . . 1G()

CHAPTER XXXI.

IN THE DEN . . . 176

CHAPTER XXXII.

Page

MAGNUS MAKES CONFESSION . . . 188

CHAPTER XXXIII. .

THE RECTOR GIVES WAY . . . 202

CHAPTER XXXIV.

AN INVITATION . . . . 219

CHAPTER XXXV.

WELCOMED . . . . 235

CHAPTER XXX VI.

AT THE TURNING . . . . 244

CHAPTER XXXVII.

LUKE ROSS's RECEPTION . . . 254

CHAPTER XXXVIII.

A WILLING INVALID . . . 262

CHAPTER XXXIX.
FULLERTON's PROPHECY . . . 427

took II.— " Forsaking i'll other."
CHAPTER I.

Page

AFTER A LAPSE . . . . 290

CHAPTER 11.

THE stray LAMB . . . . 305

CHAPTER III.

PLAYING DETECTIVE .



CHAPTER IV.

LET SLEEPING DOGS LIE . . . 329

BOOK I.— [Continued.)

CHAPTER XX.

JOCK Morrison's threat.

The visit to town was but a flying one upon
this occasion. The poverty at the rectory did
not seem to be extreme, for the horses and
carriage were sent up for the fortnight's stay,
and Mrs. Mallow had her interview with the
new specialist, who talked to her as some
specialists do talk, and then she returned to
the house taken for the short stay, and her
girls had the use of the carriage.

It was a curious thing, and at first it had

VOL. II. ^ I ^ 13

passed almost unnoticed, but just before the
Mallows left the rectory, undergoing a process
of smoking out, Frank and Cyril being the
smoke producers, Jock Morrison, whose three
months had been over now for some time,
appeared once more in the neighbourhood of
Lawford.

Julia and Cynthia met him one day by
Tom Morrison's cottage, leaning against the
doorpost and talking to little Polly.

He had stared hard at them and then
slouched away, Polly apologizing for his
presence.

You see, Miss Julia, Miss Cynthia, he's my
husband's owen brother, and we don't want him
to feel that we turn our backs upon him."

"No, of course not," said Cynthia, "but I
wish he would keep away ; " and then they had
a long; chat with the little wife. She looked
very pretty and pathetic in her deep mourning,
and they parted very tenderly, Julia's heart
bleeding for the stricken woman.

"I'd have given any thing, to have asked her
to show me where they buried poor baby,"
said Cynthia, "but I dare not even allude
to it."

*'No, of course not," said Julia, with a
shiver. " It was very sad; I can't bear to think
of it at all. Keep close to me, Cynthy," she
whispered.

They had suddenly come upon Jock Morrison,
smoking his pipe as he sat upon a stile by
the side of the lane, and as they passed he
stared hard at Julia and laureled in a half
mocking way.

*' How dare he stare at us like that ! "' said
Cynthia haughtily, and then she began chatting
about Polly Morrison's trouble, and
wishing that papa had not been so strict, and
the meeting was forgotten till, three days
later, when they reached London, and as they
got out of the train, Julia started, for there,
leaning: against a barrier with his hands in
his pockets, was Jock Morrison again.

B 2

The next clay she saw him staring up at the
house, and day after day afterwards she was
sure to encounter his bold fierce gaze somewhere
or another, till she grew quite nervous,
telling her sister that she was certain that the
man was meditating some form of revenge
against their father for sending him to prison.

Nonsense ! " cried Cynthia. " Papa is a
magistrate, and he would not dare."

Back at Lawford, and they were free of the
incubus, in fact Jock Morrison passed out of
mind ; for in spite of his breathing out threatening
of poverty, the Reverend Eli Mallow,
now that he found his eldest son had not
come to him for money, had opened the rectory
doors to receive visitors.

We must entertain a little while we are
down here, my dear, for the girls' sake. Perhaps
it is as well too for the boys."

"Yes, dear," said Mrs. Mallow, looking up
from her sofa with her customary patient
smile ; and the company arrived, and was

entertained in a manner that made Fullerton
hope that no one would suffer for it, that was
all he could say.

Among the guests who had been staying
at the rectory were the Perry-Mortons — the
Perry-Mortons in society meaning Mr. Perry-morton
and his two sisters, for though it was
believed that they had, or had had, a father
and mother, the seniors were never even heard
of, much less seen. Ill-natured people said
that Perry-Morton the elder had been a pawnbroker
who had made money largely. Be
that as it may, Perry-Morton the younger was
very rich, and never mentioned any relatives
but his sisters.

Lord Artingale was there from Gatton everyday,
but his friend and companion, James
Magnus, was in the North sketching, so the
young man, having no restraining arm on
which to lean, fell more in love as fast as he
could with little Cynthia.

Claudine Perry Morton — by the way, there

was a o'oocl deal of familiar nickname; at the
house of the Perry-Mortons, Mr. Perry-Morton
having been known to call Claudine — Bess,
and the younger sister — Faustine Judy. But
that was in the privacy of their home life, and
showed the simplicity and deep affection of
their natures.

Claudine Perry-Morton had made a dead set
at the young nobleman, but finding at once that
her chance was nil, she graciously made way
for her sister, who sang " Jock of Hazeldine " at
him, in a very deep contralto voice, and with
a graceful stoop over the piano ; but Faustine
Perry-Morton was woman of the world enough
to see that Lord Artingale's thoughts ran in
quite another direction, so she also resigned
herself to circumstances, and thought him a
man of exceedingly low tastes.

So all the smiles and sweetness of the sisters
were lavished upon the rectory girls for their
brother's sake. Nothing particular was said,
but it soon became evident that Perry-Morton

found favour with the Eector, and it was quite
understood that the wealthy visitor would,
sooner or later, propose for his elder daughter's
hand.

She was nearly as bright at this time as her
sister, and Artingale declared that she was
the dearest girl he knew, not from any amiable
passages between them, but because she
laughingly helped him to pleasant little 
with her sister, especially when they were
out riding ; horse exercise and good long gallops
being a great deal in vogue, when the weather
was mild and clear.

Lord Artingale would canter over from
Gatton, sending two or three or more horses by
his grooms, an arrangement highly approved
of by Frank and Cyril Mallow, who were very
civil to him, though in private they compared
notes, and said that he would be an awful fool
if he had not borne a title and kept such good

cigars.

Sometimes the Rector joined the equestrian

parties upon a quiet cob, but he generally
turned homeward after two or three miles,
either to make a call or two at the outlying
farms, or to meet the carriage. Then, to make
things pleasant, poor Julia talked art on horseback
with Mr. Perry-Morton, while her sister
and Lord Artingale had a brisk canter over some
heath, and the groom behind sat and grinned.

"Talk about the guv'nor," said the last-named
individual, as he returned to the stables
with the horses, and compared notes \\'ith Lord
Artingale's man, " he is a sight on horseback.
That there old cob holds him on a most. But if
you want to see riding you should go behind
that there Perry-Morton."

This was in the midst of a chorus of hissing
from the helpers, who were rubbing down the
horses after one of the morning rides.

*' He do look a rum un," said one of the men.

Look ! " said the groom ; " he is a rum un.
He gets them little thin legs of his one on each
side of the horse, and keeps yer altering his

stirrups for ever so long. Now they're too
long, and now they're too short, and when we
starts he holds his reins one in each hand, and
bends forward so that if his horse didn't have
on a martingale he'd always be finding his
nose between its ears."

*' Can't he ride, then ? "

*' Ride ! Yes ; like a sack o' sharps on a
miller's pony. It's freezing work going outwith
him, worse than with the guv 'nor, for he
keeps his 'loss at a walk the whole time. Lor,
I'd give something to see him on his lordship's
Mad Mr

But the groom was not destined to see Mr.
Perry-Morton upon that greyhound-framed
hunter, which was full of fire and fidget
with every one but Cynthia, who could have
curbed her with a silken thread, for that gentleman
was an admirer of repose even on horseback,
and would only ride the quietest horse he
could hire at the Kings's Head, although Lord
Artingale offered him the pick of his little stud.

Repose, too, gave him so many excellent
opportunities for putting forward bis suit with
Julia, upon whom he beamed in a mezzo-tinto
style, the lady hardly realizing his meaning,
only thinking him very absurd, and laughingly
telling; her sister that she owed, her a long; debt
of gratitude for giving her so many opportunities
for a long canter — one of those
delightful long canters from which Cynthia
used to come back with a delicious glow upon
her cheeks, and with eyes that literally sparkled
with health and pleasure combined.

Looking like a wild gal," Mr. Jabez
Fullerton said, as he stood at his shop door.
I declare it's immoral, that's what it is ; a
parson's daughter gadding about like a jockey,
Smithson : it's diso^ustino^.'^

Yes," said Mr. Smithson, who was calculating
how many yards, at how much a yard,
were in Cynthia's well-fitting riding-habit.

There's a horse — look at it — for a young
gal to ride ! AVell, all I can say is that I

hope his lordship means to many her. I
never saw such goings on."

That there habit do fit well though, I
must say that," said Smithson.

*' Fit ? " said Fullerton. *' Hah ! The rectory's
a disgrace ! "

But it so happened that riding was not
always the order of the day. Long brisk
walks were taken at times, much to the
bearing of Mr. Perry-Morton's patent leather
shoes ; and upon one of these occasions it had
been arranged that Julia and Cynthia were to
make a call or two upon some of the poor cottagers,
who had been rather neglected during
the past two weeks. Lord Artingale was going
to ride over, and he and Mr. Perry-Morton
were to bring forward the ladies to meet them,
if the Misses Perry-morton could walk so far.

*' Why, Julie, it's quite a treat to be alone
once more'' said Cynthia, merrily, as they
walked briskly along the sandy lanes, calling
at first one cottage and then another.

Treat ! " said her sister, smiling, " I
thought "

Hush ! I won't be teased. But, Julie
dear, I won't be a hypocrite to you. I do
tease him and laugh at him, but he is nice,
and I think I'm beginning; to like him
ever so."

"I like him very, very much," said Julia,
naively. " He's a very pleasant, manly fellow."

Yes, isn't he, dear ? But, Julie, it's too
bad, I know, of me to leave you so long
with that dreadful bore. What does he say
to you ? '^

Say ! " said Julia, with a smile ; '^ really I
hardly know. Talks about art and nature's
colour, and asks me if I do not find a want
of thoroughness in our daily life."

Thoroughness ! why that's what his sisters
are always talking about. I think it thorough
nonsense. Oh, I shall be so glad when
they're gone."

Yes, it will be nicer," said Julia, thoughtfully

; " but papa seems to like them very
much."

'* Yes, isn't it extraordinary? " cried Cynthia.
He wants papa to take a house in town, and
to furnish it upon plans designed by him.
I heard them talking about it, and papa seems
to be guided by him in everything. And
what do you think ? "

I don't know, dear."

I'm as good as certain that that wicked
Cyril has been borrowing money of Perry-morton."


Why do you think that ? " said Julia,
quickly.

Because Cyril does not make fun of him
a bit, but both he and Frank are wonderfully
civil."

Julia sighed.

Hadn't we better turn back now, dear ? "

Oh, no ! let's go as far as old Mrs.
Meadows's, poor old lady ; she'll think we are
never coming again."

They walked a few hundred yards farther
on, and sat for a quarter of an hour to learn
how the poor old lady's jyntes was uncommon
painful just now, thanks, and that she hadn't
seen them since before Christmas, and that
it had been the mildest Christmas she had
snowed this sixty year ; and then the old
lady sent her visitors on their return walk,
with the cheerful announcement that a green
Christmas " allers made a full churchyard,
my dears," which well she snowed it to
be true.

Oh, what a dreadful old woman, Julie,"
cried Cynthia, merrily.

"Poor old thiuo- ! but how well she is for
eighty."

No troubles but her jyntes to harass her,"
laughed Cynthia.

*' How long will it be before we meet
anybody ? "

A much shorter time than they either of
them anticipated, for as they turned a bend

in the road, two rouo-li-lookiiior men who had
been leaning against a gate came towards
them, making no movement to let them pass,
but staring offensively.

"Don't be frightened, Julie," whispered
Cynthia, with spirit, "I'm not afraid."

She walked on boldly, and darted such an
imperious look at the lesser of the two men,
that he slunk aside to let her pass, but the
other, Jock Morrison, stood his ground. He
stared in a peculiar, half-smiling way at Julia,
making; her shrink aside, and following her
up, as, turning pale, her lips parting, and with
dilated eyes, she felt as it were fascinated by
his gaze, shuddering the next moment as he
exclaimed with a coarse laugh —

Bob, old matey, I mean to have this girl."

Chapter Xxii



AT Kirby FARM.

'' Well— well— well— well," said Mrs. Port-lock,
folding her apron full of pleats, as Luke
Ross sat talking to her for a while, and
ended by telling her his intentions for the
future. " Barrister, eh ? Well, of all the

trades I ever heard tell of but can barristers

make a livings ? "

Yes, and a good one, too," said Luke,
laughing.

Then you are not going to take to the
school after all ? "

No, I have quite altered my plans, and
I hope all will turn out for the best."

Ah, I hope so, I'm sure," said Mrs. Port-lock,

smoothing down her black silk dress,
and then arranging a necklace of oblong
amber beads, which she wore on market-days,
one which bore a striking; resemblance to a
string of bilious beetles. '' But what does
your father say ? "

*' I have not told him my plans yet, for
they have only been made since the governor's
meeting."

'' Well, Luke Ross," said Mrs. Portlock,
in a resigned fashion, " I'm sure I don't wish
you any harm."

I'm sure you do not'' he said, laughing.

"Indeed I do not," she continued: 'but,
for my part, I think you had a great deal
better have kept to your father's trade. Such
a business as that is not to be picked up everyday.
But there, I suppose you know best."

Of course he does," said the Churchwarden,
who heard the latter part of her sentence.
You let Luke Ross alone for that. His
head's screwed on the right way."

VOL. II. c

"Don't be so foolish, Joseph," cried Mrs.
Portlock. ''Do talk sense. Has Mr. Cyril
Mallow gone ? "

"Yes, he's gone back home," said the
farmer.

Why didn't you ask, him to stay and have
a bit of dinner with us ? "

Because I didn't want him, mother. He
only walked home with me to ask about a
bit o' rabbit shooting."

But still, it would have been civil to
ask him to stop. It's market-day, and there's
the hare you shot on Friday, and a bit o'
sirloin."

Tchah ! he wouldn't have cared to stay.
He dines late and fashionable-like at home."

I'll be bound to say he'd have been very
glad to stop," said Mrs. Portlock, bridling.
*' fashionable, indeed ! He got no fashionable
dinners when he was working; his wav home
at sea, nor yet when he was out in the
bush."

Where lie had much better have stayed —
eh, Luke ? " said the farmer. " He does no
good but idle about here."

Idle, indeed ! " cried Mrs. Portlock, taking
up the cudgels, rather indignantly, on the
young man's behalf. " It might be idling
if it was Luke Eoss here, but Mr. Cyril
Mallow's a gentleman and a gentleman's son,
and he has a right to work when he likes
and leave off when he likes."

Oh ! has he ? " said the Churchwarden,
smiling at their visitor, as much as to say,
Now, just you listen.' " Well, I'm not a
learned man, like Luke Eoss here, who has
got his Bible at his tongue's end."

'' As every man who calls himself a goodman
ought to," said Mrs. Portlock, tartly.
Sage ! '*

Yes, aunt," came from the next room,
where the speaker could hear every word.

Tell them to take the dinner in directly.
And, for my part, Joseph, I think if you'd

C 2

read your Bible a little more o' Sundays you'd
be a better man."

You wouldn't like me so well if I was
a better man, old lady," be laughed ; " but,
as I was going to say, when I used to read
of such things I got it into my head that
the first specimen of a man as was made was
a working man, to till the ground, and not
idle and loaf about, and eat the fruit and
shoot the rabbits in the Garden of Eden."

For shame, father, to talk in that way ! "
cried the lady. *' And I wonder that you
speak so disrespectfully of Mr. Cyril Mallow.
For my part, I think he's a very nice, gentlemanly
young fellow, and it's too bad for
people to be always sneering about him as
they are."

And, for my part," said the Churchwarden,
good-hum surely, '^ I'm a bit of a Radical,
and don't believe in taking off your hat to
a man because he happens to have a few
thousand pounds more than one's got oneself.

If he's a wonderful clever chap, with more
brains than I've got, why, I do look up to
him ; but I'm not going down on my knees
to a set of folks who yawn through their
lives, doing nothing, except telling you byword
and look that they are a better class
of people than you are ; and as for Master
Cyril Mallow, he's a well-built, strapping
young fellow, dio can talk well, and shoot
well, but if he had happened to be my son,
instead of old Mallow's, I'd have licked him
into a different shape to what he's in now, aye,
and his brother too, or I'd have known the
reason why. Dinner in, my lass ? That's
well. Come along, Luke. Tchah ! nonsense !
you shall stay. You can tell the old man
your reasons better when you've got a bit
of roast beef under your waistcoat, and some
of my ale. Why, Sage, lass, what ails you ?
Your face is as white as a bit o' dough."

*' Oh, nothing, uncle, nothing," she replied,
forcing a smile, as she hurried to a tall press

to get out a napkin for their visitor, and soon
after they were seated at the hospitable meal,
which was more bounteous on a market-day,
the nearness of the farm to the town making
it always probable that the Churchwarden
might bring up a friend.

But Luke Eoss was the only stranger on
that occasion, and he sat opposite Sage, whose
countenance, though less troubled than when
she had overheard her uncle's words, was
lacking in its ordinary composure.

Luke saw this, and attributed it to their
conversation, and the interest she took in
his affairs. Her aunt saw it, too, and, with
the idea of comforting her niece, kept turning
the conversation to the Rector and his family,
but not to do any good, for out of mere contrariety,
and with a twinkle in his eye as he
glanced at Luke, the Churchwarden set to and
roundly abused the Rector and his sons for
their ways.

'' Come, Luke," he said, " you are not

making half a meal. I suppose by and by, sir,
you will be as fashionable as Master Cyril
Mallow, and won't eat a bit at dinner-time
without calling it lunch. Ha, ha, ha ! "

There, do have done, Joseph," cried Mrs.
Portlock. *' What have you got to laugh
at now "? "

'* I was thinking of the horse whipping I
gave the young dogs — aye, it's twelve or
fourteen years ago now —-that night I caught
them in the orchard."

There, do let bygones be bygones, Joseph,"
cried Mrs. Portlock, sharply. " Boys will be
boys. I'll be bound to say you stole apples
yourself when you were young."

Aye, that I did, and got thrashed for it,
too. But I must say that Cyril Mallow don't
bear any malice for what I did."

A regular duel was fought over that meal
between the heads, Sage hardly raising her
eyes, but looking more and more troubled
as the Mallow attack and defence went on,

while Luke Ross was so intent upon his own
thoughts that he hardly heard a word.

It was with quite a feeling of relief, then,
that Sage heard her uncle say —

I like parson, not as a parson, but as a
man : for the way in which Le has tended
that poor sick woman 's an honour to him ;
but, as for his way of bringing up children,
why, if I had carried on my farm in such a
fashion I should have been in the Court
o' Bankruptcy years ago. Best thing Mallow
could do would be to put the fellow with
me to learn farming, and me have the riorht

to do what I liked with him, and five-and-twenty

to two ? Is it, my dear ? I didn't

know it was so late and make us truly

thankful. Amen."

There was a general scooping of chairs after
this condensed grace, Sage hurrying off to put
on her hat and jacket, and her aunt running
after her to say, in a mysterious whispered
confidence —

Don't you take any notice of uncle, my
dear. He don't mean half lie says."

You'll walk back with Sage, of course,
Luke ? " said the Churchwarden, quietly, ashe
drew his chair to the fire for his after-dinner
pipe. " Well, my boy, I think you're
right about what you settled ; but I suppose
I had something to do with your altering your
mind ? "

** Yes, sir, I must own to that."

Well," said the Churchwarden, thoughtfully,
" I hope it's for the best ; I meant it
to be. You'll go back to London, then,

soon :

Almost directly, sir, to begin working
hard."

That's right, my boy. I believe in work.
Come over here whenever you are down at
Lawford. I shall be very glad to see you, my
lad, very."

Then, pulling out his watch, he consulted it,
and went on chatting for a few minutes as if

to keep Luke from speaking about the subject
near to bis heart, but at last he broke in —

I need hardly say, sir, that I go meaning
to work up to the point you named, and "

'' Yes, yes, yes, my lad ; let that rest. Let's
see how things go. You're both young," he
cried, pulling out his big silver watch once
more. " I say, mother," he shouted, " tell
Sage that Luke's waiting to walk back with
her. She'll be late for school."

Then like a chill to Luke Eoss came back
Mrs. Portlock's voice —

Sage 1 Oh, she went out by the back way
ten minutes ago."

CHAPTER XXII.

CYNTHIA S KNIGHTS.

That was all — those few insolent, grossly-insulting
words — and then the big fellow
stood staring after the frightened girls.

Take my hand, Julia," whispered the
younger sister ; and if, as we read in the old
novelists, a glance would kill, the flash of
indignant lightning that darted from her
bright eyes would have laid Jock morrison
dead in the road.

But, powerful as are the effects of a lady's
eyes, they had none other here than to make
the great picturesque fellow smile at her mockingly
before turning his hawk-like gaze on the
frightened girl who (flung to her sister's hand
as they hurried away.

Has he gone, Cynthy 1 " whispered Julia,
at the end of a few moments.

T don't know. I can't hear them, and I
won't look back, or they'll think we are afraid
and we are not."

I am — horribly afraid," said Julia, in a
choking voice.

I'm not," said Cynthia. '' A nasty, rude,
impudent pig that he is. Oh, if I were a man,
I'd whip him till he lay down on the ground
and begged for mercy. To insult two inoffensive
girls like that ! Harry shall beat him
well, that he shall, or I'll never speak to him

moraine



Make haste," whispered Julia. ^' Let's

run."

I won't run," cried Cynthia. " I wouldn't
run away from the biggest man that ever
lived. I never heard of such a thing. Oh,
how cross papa will be."

'' We had better not tell him," said Julia,
faintly ; and her face was deadly pale.

Not tell papa ? Why, you foolish little
coward, Julie ! But only to think of the
insufferable impudence of the wretch. I wish
he had said it to me."

'' No, no : don't wish that," cried Julia,
excitedly. "It is too horrible. Oh, Cynthy
dear, I shall dream of that man."

You shan't do anything of the kind," cried
her sister, whose eyes sparkled and face flushed
with excitement. " Such nonsense ! Two unprotected
maidens walking through the forest
met a wicked ogre, and he opened his ugly
great mouth, and gaped as he showed his big
white teeth like a lion, and then he said, I am
going to gobble up the prettiest of those two
little maids ; and then they ran away, and a
gallant knight coming along, they fled to him
for help, and fell upon their poor knees in a
wet place, and said, ^ Oh, brave and gallant
paladin, go and smite down that wicked ogre,
and wee "will give you smiles, and gloves to
wear in your helm, and tie scarves round your

waist, and if you will promise not to eat us,
you shall some day have one of us for a pet ! '
x\nd the name of the gallant knight was Sir
Perrin Morton, and "

Oh pray be quiet, Cynthy, I feel so upset
you cannot tell."

'' Stuff and nonsense ! Don't interrupt my
story. The ogre has gone."

I shall always be afraid of meeting that

man."

What, after the gallant knight has killed
him? Oh, I see, you are afraid that Sir
Perrin would not slay him, but would bind
him in chains, and keep him at his castle for
an artist's model. Then we will appeal to
another knight. Lord Harry the Saucy, and he
shall do the deed. Where is the gallant I wis
not," she added, laughing.

"I know who he is," said Julia, who was
trembling still.

"So do I," said Cynthia, merrily. " Well,
never mind, my darling sissy ; don't let a

thing like that upset you. Come : be brave.
They are gone now, and we shall never see
them again."

Never see them again," said Julia, with a
wild look in her eye. " That man will haunt
me wherever I go."

Will he, dear ? " said Cynthia, merrily ;
"then the gallant knight shall not quite kill
him, though I don't believe in haunting
ghosts. Here they are."

** Cynthia!" gasped Julia, with a cry of
horror.

I don't mean the ogres, you little coward ;
I mean the gallant knights."

Why, we began to think we had missed
you," cried Lord Artingale, who, with Mr.
Perry-morton, met them at a turn of the road,
the latter gentleman's patent leather shoes
being a good deal splashed, in spite of the care
with which he had picked his way.

Oh, Mr. Perry-Morton," cried Cynthia,
ignoring Artingale, and, with a mischievous

light in her eye, addressing their artistic
friend, " my sister has been so shamefully
insulted by a great big man."

*who? where? my dear Miss Julia?
Where is the scoundrel ? " cried Perry-Morton,
excitedly.

Just down the road a little way," said
Cynthia. " I hope you will go and beat him
well".

'' A big scoundrel of a fellow ? " cried Mr.
Perry-Morton.

'* Yes, and he looks like a gipsy," said
Cynthia, innocently. " He said something so
insulting to my sister."

Hush, pray, Cynthia," cried the latter,
faintly.

Oh, poor girl, she is going to faint. Miss
Mallow, pray look up. I am here. Take my
arm. Let me hasten with you home. This
scoundrel shall be pursued, and brought to
justice."

*' I am better now," said Julia, speaking

more firmly. " No, thank you, Mr. Perry-morton,
I can walk well enough."

Oh, I cannot leave you like this, clear
Miss Julia," whispered Perry-Morton, while
Cynthia's eyes were sparkling with malicious
glee, as she turned them upon Artingale,
whose face, however, startled her into seriousness,
as he caught her arm, gripping it so hard
that it gave her pain.

Tell me, Cynthia," he said, hoarsely, 'That
sort of a fellow was this ? "

^' A big, gipsy-looking man, and there
was a dirty-looking fellow with him," faltered
the girl, for her lover's look alarmed her.
But stop, Harry ; what are you going todo?"


Break his cursed neck — if I can," cried
Artingale, in a low, angry growl.

No, no : don't go," she whispered, catching
at him. " You may be hurt."

One of us will be," he said, hoarsely.

'' But, Harry, please ! " .

VOL. II. D

She looked at him so appealingly that he
took her hands in his.

'' Cynthia^my darling ! " he whispered ;
and if they had been alone he would have
caught her in his arms.

But they were not alone, and bending down
he whispered —

'you have made me so happy, but you
would not have me be a cur. Take your sister
home."

Without another word he turned and started
off down the lane at a trot, Cynthia watching
him till he was out of sight.

Oh, Harry ! If you are hiirt ! " she
whispered to herself; and then, recalling
her sister's trouble, she ran to her side,
where Perry-Morton was making a pretence
of affording support that was not
required.

We can soon get home, Mr. Perry-Morton,"
said Cynthia, with the malicious look coming
back into her eyes, and;chasing away one that

was very soft and sweet. " Wouldn't you
like to go after Lord Artingale ? "

What ! and leave you two unprotected ? "
said the apostle, loudly. '' No, I could not, to
save my life."

He did not, but attended the ladies right up to
the rectory, sending their father into a fury, and
then leading a party of servants to the pursuit
of the tramps, as they were dubbed, but only to
meet Lord Artingale at the end of a couple of
hours returning unsuccessful from his chase.

For he had not seen either of the fellows,
from the fact that as soon as the ladies had
gone they had quietly entered the wood, to lie
down amongst the mossy hazel stubbs, from
which post of vantage they had seen the young
man go by.

Hadn't we better hook it, Jock ? " said the
lesser vagabond.

Hook it ? No. What for ? We haven't
done nothings ao^en the lor."

There was hot indignation at the rectory,

D 2

and Frank and Cyril went straight to Tom
Morrison's cottage, frightening the wheelwright's
wife, and making her look paler as
she took refuge with Budge in the back, only-coming
forward after repeated summonses,
and then keeping the girl with her, as she
said, truthfully, that Jock Morrison had not
been there for days.

What's the matter ? " said Tom, coming
from his workshop, and looking sternly at the
two visitors.

Matter ! " cried Frank, fiercely ; " we want
that brother of yours ; he has been insulting
my sister."

Then you had better find him and punish
him," said Tom, coldly.

'' Where is he ? "

"You are a parson's sons," said Tom,
bitterly, " and ought to know Scripture.
Am I my brother's keeper ? ' "

'' Look here, you 1 om Morrison," cried
Frank, " no insolence ; Fve only just come

back home, but while I stay I'll not have
my sisters insulted by a blackguard family
who have got a hold in the parish, and do it
out of spite because my father could not act
as they wanted."

Out of my place ! " roared Tom, fiercely.
How dare you bring up that, you coward ! "

Tom ! Tom ! oh, for my sake, pray ! " cried
Polly, throwing herself upon his breast just ashe
was about to seize Coil, who had stepped
before his brother.

"Well, for thy sake, yes," said Tom, passing:
his arm round his wife. "Frank and
Cyril Mallow, don't come to my place again,
or there may be mischief."

Do you dare to threaten ns, you door ? "
cried Frank.

He ouo^ht to know what a magistrate's

power " began Cyril, but he glanced at

Polly and checked himself. " Here, come
away, Frank. Look here, Tom Morrison, where
is your brother Jock ? "

I don't know," said Tom, sternly, " and if I
did I should not tell you. This is my house,
gentlemen, and I want neither truck nor trade
with you and yours."

I'll have you both flogged," cried Frank.
'' A pretty thing that two ladies can't go
along the lanes without being insulted ! By
G— d, if "

"Look here," said Tom Morrison, stoutly,
dio are you and yours that they are not to
be spoken to ? How long is it since a respectable
girl couldn't hardly walk along one of
our lanes for fear of being insulted by the
parson's sons ? I tell you "

Tom ! Tom ! '^ moaned Polly, " I— I "

Hush, bairn ! " he whispered, and Frank
hustled his brother out of the cottage, angrily
threatening punishment to the brothers Morrison
before many days were over their heads,
and went back to the rectory, where Mr.
Perry-Morton informed Lord Artingale, in
confidence, that Ite would have liked to delete

such creatures as that ruffian. They were
only blurs, spots, and blemishes upon the
face of this beautiful earth, marring its serenity,
and stealing sj^ace that was the inheritance
of those who could appreciate the gift.

I can handle my fists," said Artingale, in
reply, " for we had a good fellow to teach us,
and nothing would have given me greater
pleasure than to have had ten minutes' interview
with that blackguard."

o

It is very brave and bold of you," said
Mr. Perry-Morton, holding his too fleshy head
up with one white hand, as it drooped sidewise,
and supporting his elbow with another
white hand, as he gazed at him with a kindly,
patronizing, smiling pity, '* but it would be
better to hand him over to the police."

Oh, the police might have had him when
I had done with him," said the young man,
nodding. '' I should have liked to have had
my bit of satisfaction first."

The sisters, that is to say, Mr. Perry-morton's

sisters, wound their arms round each
other, the elder laying her head upon her
sister's shoulder, so that arms, hair, and
dresses were intertwined and mingled into
a graceful whole. Doubtless their legs would
have been woven into the figure, only they
were required to stand on ; and then with a
series of changes passing over their faces
with beautiful regularity, and with wonderful
gradations by minor tones or tints, they suggested
horror, fear, dread, suffering, pity, pain,
with a grand finale representing wakeful repose,
as they listened to Cynthia's history of
the encounter, while their brother, after gazing
at them diagonally through his eyelashes,
softly crossed the room, touched the Rector
upon the arm, and pointed to the sisterly
group with a smile of satisfied affection.

Heaven has its reflections upon earth,"
he said softly, "and the poetic mind reads
rapture in angelic form," he added, with a fat
smile of serene satisfaction and repose.

Quite so' said the Eector, and he balanced
his double eyeglass upon his nose ; '' but really,
Mr. Perry-Morton, I have so many troubles
and petty cares upon my mind, that this
new one has filled me with indignation, and
I hardly know what I say or do. Whether
as clergyman or county magistrate, I am sure
no one could be so troubled as I have been."

But the indignation even of a county magistrate
availed nothing, although it took the
form of a hunt about the place with the
resident rural policeman, supplemented by
the presence of two more resident rural policemen
from two neighbouring villages. Lord
Artingale's keepers, too, were admonished to
be on the look-out, but Jock Morrison was
not seen, though his companion was traced
to one or two casual wards, and then seemed
to have made for London.

Morton's sisters, wound their arms round each
other, the elder laying her head upon her
sister's shoulder, so that arms, hair, and
dresses were intertwined and mingled into
a graceful whole. Doubtless their legs would
have been woven into the figure, only they
were required to stand on ; and then with a
series of changes passing over their faces
with beautiful regularity, and with wonderful
gradations by minor tones or tints, they suggested
horror, fear, dread, suffering, pity, pain,
with a grand finale representing wakeful repose,
as they listened to Cynthia's history of
the encounter, while their brother, after gazing
at them diagonally through his eyelashes,
softly crossed the room, touched the Rector
upon the arm, and pointed to the sisterly
group with a smile of satisfied affection.

Heaven has its reflections upon earth,"
he said softly, "and the poetic mind reads
rapture in angelic form," he added, with a fat
smile of serene satisfaction and repose.

Quite so' said the Rector, and he balanced
his double eyeglass upon his nose ; '' but really,
Mr. Perry-Morton, I have so many troubles
and petty cares upon my mind, that this
new one has filled me with indignation, and
I hardly know what I say or do. Whether
as clergyman or county magistrate, I am sure
no one could be so troubled as I have been."

But the indignation even of a county magistrate
availed nothing, although it took the
form of a hunt about the place with the
resident rural policeman, supplemented by
the presence of two more resident rural policemen
from two neighbouring villages. Lord
Artingale's keepers, too, were admonished to
be on the look-out, but Jock Morrison was
not seen, though his companion was traced
to one or two casual wards, and then seemed
to have made for London.

CHAPTEE XXIII.

CLERICAL DIFFICULTIES.

The Fullerton party .proved triumphant in
the struggle which ensued, and in spite of
the Rector's efforts to produce a better state of
things at the boys' school, Mr. Humphrey Bone
kept on teaching in his good old-fashioned
way — good in the eyes of many of the Law-fortes
— when he was sober, but breaking outwith
a week's drinking fit from time to time,
when the school would be either closed or carried
on by the principal monitors. Sage Portlock
o:oin2j in from time to time at the Rector's
request when the noise became uproarious.

Those who had been the most determined on
Bone's retention shut their eyes to these little

weaknesses on the master's part ; and, if the
boys were not well taught, the tradesmen's
accounts were written in a copperplate hand,
while the length and amount of the bill was
made less painful to its recipient by finding
his name made to look quite handsome with
a wonderful flourish which literally framed it
in curves — a flourish which it had taken Mr.
Bone years to acquire.

The Rector resigned himself in disgust to
the state of things, and devoted his attention
to the girls' school.

It can't be helped. Miss Portlock," he said,
with a smile ; ^' if we cannot make good boys
in the pace we must make super excellent
girls, and by and by as they grow up they'll
exercise their influence on the young men."

He thought a great deal of his words ashe
went homewards, according to his custom,
with his hands behind his back, holding his
walking-cane as if it were a tail, thinking
very deeply of his sons, and whether some

day good, true women would have a-n influence
upon their lives and make them better men.

The Rector never knew why the boys
laughed at him, setting it down entirely to
their rudeness and Humphrey Bone's bad
teaches:, for no one ever took the trouble
to tell him it was on account of that thick
black stick he was so fond of carrying,
depending from his clasped hands behind.

Upon the present occasion, as he walked
homeward, and in fact as he would at anytime
when excited by his thoughts, he now
and then gave the stick a toss up, or a wag
sideways, ending with a regular flourish, after
the manner of a cow in a summer pasture
when much troubled by the flies, adding
thereby greatly to the resemblance borne by
the stick to a pendent tail.

The Rector was more than usually excited
on the morning of his remark to Sao;e Portlock.
There had been something tender and paternal
in his way of addressing her, and she had a

good deal filled his thoughts of late. There
were several reasons for this.

He had had no right to plan out Sage's
future, but somehow he had thoroughly mapped
it out long before.

He knew of Luke Ross's attachment to ber,
and from his position as spiritual head of the
parish, it was only natural that he should
think of the duty that so often fell to his
lot — that of joining couples in the " holy
estate of matrimony."

But a short time back and in Sage's case it
all came so natural and easy. Luke Ross had
been trained, he was to have the boys' school,
he would soon marry her, the schoolhouses
would be occupied, and the schools be as } effect
under such guidance as schools could be.

Everything had been gliding on beautifully
towards a definite end, and then there had
come stumbling-blocks. Luke Ross had gone
back to town ; the girls' schoolhouse remained
unoccupied, as Sage went home for the

out of the fireside cupboard, extolling the
wine the while.

I'm sure you'd like it," she said. ^' Your
.son had some only last night, and he said it
was better than any sherry he had ever
tasted."

My son — last night ? " said the Rector,
quickly. " Which son ? "

Mr. Cyril; he drank four glasses of it, and
praised it most highly."

She poured out a glass, and the Rector
drew it to him, and sat gazing at the clear,
amber liquid, hesitating as to how he should
begin, while Mrs. Portlock stole a glance at
the mirror to see if her cap was straight, and
wished she had known of her visitor's coming,
so that she might have put on a silk dress,
and the cap with the maroon ribbons and the
o[old acorn.

Cyril said that he was down the town
last night with Frank," said the Eector to
himself. " He fears my words, and he is

playing false, or he would not have been
ashamed to answer that he was here."

How the time seems to fly, Mrs. Portlock ! "
said the Rector at last, biting his lip with
annoyance at the want of originality of the
only idea he could set forth.

*' Dear me, yes. I was saying so only last

week to Mr. Cyril. ' Four months,' I said,
since you came back ; ' and he looked up at
Sage and said that the time seemed to go
like lightning."

By the way, Mrs. Portlock," said the
Rector, hastily, "have you heard from Luke
Ross lately 1 "

*' Oh, dear me, no," said the lady, rather
sharply. " I never call at the Ross's now."

'^ I thought, perhaps, the young people
might correspond."

*' Oh, dear me, no ; neither Mr. Portlock
nor myself could countenance such a thing
as that."

The Rector was at a loss to see the

VOL. II, E

impropriety of such an intercourse, but he
said nothing — he merely bowed.

That was only a boy-and-girl sort of thing.
Our Sage knew Luke Eoss from a boy, but
now they are grown up, and as Joseph — Mr.
Portlock — said they were too young to think
about such-things as that."

But I understood that they were engaged,"
said the Rector, who felt startled ; and he
gazed very anxiously in Mrs. Portlock's face
for her reply.

Oh, dear me, no, sir, nothing of the kind."
For want of something to say, the Rector
sipped his wine.

My husband very properly said that
under the circumstances no engagement
ouo^ht to take place, and it was not likely.
For my part I don't agree with the affair
at all."

The Rector felt that his position was growing
more unpleasant than ever. He had come
to say something, but that something would

not be said ; and at last when lie did speak
his words were very different from what he
had intended they should be.

]\[y son, Cyril, has taken to coming here
a good deal lately, Mrs. Portlock," he said.

Well, yes, sir," she said, with a satisfied
smile ; " he has."

I am sorry to have to speak so plainly
about him, Mrs. Portlock, but I hope you will
not encourage his visits. Cyril has travelled
a good deal, and has imbibed, I am afraid, a
great deal of careless freedom."

Indeed ? " said the lady, stiffly.

I'm afraid that he is too ready to laugh
and chat with any girl he meets, and I should
be sorry if — er — if "

** If you mean by that, Mr. Mallow, sir, that
you don't consider our niece good enough for
your son," said Mrs. Portlock, tartly, 'please
say so downright."

" I did not wish to imply anything of the
kind, Mrs. Portlock," replied the Rector,

E 2

mildly. " I wish merely to warn you against
his foolish, frivolous ways."

"If there's a difference at all it's on your
side, Mr. Mallow, sir," continued the lady.
'* Mr. Cyril has been a deal too idle and roving
to suit me, while our Sage r"

"Miss Portlock is a most estimable young
lady, for whom I entertain the highest respect,
Mrs. Portlock," said the Eector, warmly ; "and
it was on her behalf, knowing as I do how
foolish Cyril can be, that I came to speak to
you this morning."

1 don't know anything about his foolishness,
Mr. Mallow," said the lady, who was
growing irate ; " but I've got to say this, that
he comes here just as if he means something,
and if he does not mean anything he had
better stop away, and not behave like his
brother Frank."

Exactly so, my dear madam," cried the
Rector, eagerly. " I am going to talk seriously
to him."

This did not seem to meet the lady's ideas,
and she looked hot and annoyed, beginning to
stir the fire with a good deal of noise, and
setting the poker down more loudly.

I should he deeply grieved, T am sure?
Mrs. Portlock," began the Eector ; " it is far

from my wish to really, my dear madam,

this is a very unpleasant interview."

The lady said nothing ; but she was so
evidently of the same opinion that the Eector
was glad to rise and offer his hand in token of
farewell.

She shook hands, and the visitor left, to
hurry home with his black stick hanging
behind, and his soul hot within him as he
mentally accused Cyril by his folly of getting
him into the unpleasant predicament from
which he had so lately escaped.

CHAPTER Xxii.

"a nowhere

are you going, Frank ? "

"Don't know; perhaps as far as Lewby.
John Berry said he would be glad to show me
round his farm."

** Oh ! " exclaimed Cyril, with a meaning. look.

'* Well, what do you mean by ' Oh ' ? '' said
Frank, roughly.

Nothing at all, my dear boy — nothing at
all," said Cyril.

I never grin like an idiot at you when you
are going over to Kilby, do I ? "

Oh, no : not at all. It's all right, I suppose,"
laughed Cyril. " But, I say, hadn't
you better be off amongst the blacks ? You
have grown rather uncivilized lately,"

Mind your own business," growled Frank
Mallow. " I say ! "

." Well ? "

'' That blackguard regularly frightened Ju.
She hasn't looked the same girl since."

No," said Cyril. " Pity the shooting
season's over."

'' Why ? "

We might have peppered the blackguard
by accident if he had shown himself here

again."

Master would like to see you, sir, in my
mistress's room," said the butler, entering the
study where the young men were smoking.

Oh, all right, I'll come," said (cyril, impatiently.
" Hang it, Frank, if you were half a
brother you'd go halves with me, and take me
back to your place. I'm sick of this life.
There's a lecture about something, I suppose."

'* Caning, I should think," said Frank,
with a sneering laugh. ^' There, go and get it
over ; and look here, I'll give up Lewby to-day,

and drive over with you to Gatley. Let's
get a game at billiards and dine with Artis
It's no use to have a lord after your
sister if you don't make use of him."

All right. No. I've an engagement tonight."


Go and keep it then, and be hanged. I
shall go to Lewby," growled Frank.

Blackberries ? " sneered Cyril. " I say,
mind you don't ' Rue ' going."

If you say that again, Gil, I'll get up and
kick you," growled Frank. " Every fellow isn't
such a blackguard as you."

Oh no," laughed Cyril, " especially not
dear brother Frank. There, I'm off."

You're a beauty, Gil ! " growled Frank, and
he lit a fresh cigar. " Share ! Go halves
with me ! Ha, ha, ha ! I dare say lie would.
How people do believe in stories of the gold
mines. I wonder whether anything is to be
made out of that poet fool."

'* Want to talk to me, father ? " said Cyril,

entering the room where his mother lay upon
the couch, with a terrible look of anxiety upon
her pallid face. "Oh, let's see ; will my
smoking worry you, mamma ? "

"Always so thoughtful for me," said the
fond mother to herself. Then aloud —

** I don't mind it, Cyril, but I don't think
your father "

She stopped short, for the Rector interrupted
her, sternly.

"Is an invalid lady's roorn a suitable place
for smoking pipes, Cyril ? "

"Don't see that it matters what the place is
so long as the invalid don't mind. But there,
don't make a bother about it," he cried, tapping
the burning tobacco out on to the hob ;
I can wait until I go down again."

Shall we go down, papa ? " said Julia,
rising with Cynthia from where they sat in
the window.

No, my dears ; you must hear what I am
going to say, so you may as well hear it now."

'' Oh, no, Eli," moaned the invalid.

'' Very well, my dears, you had better go,"
said the Rector, and he led his daughters to the
door, which he opened and closed after them
with quiet dignity.

"Eow on!" muttered Cyril. "Well, ma,
dear, how are you ? "

"Not — not quite so well, Cyril," she
said, fondly ; and her voice trembled, as she
dreaded a scene. " Will you come and sit
down here by me?" she added, pointing to
a chair.

Yes, I may a^ well," he said, laughingly,
and you can take care of me, for I see somebody
means mischief."

The Eector bit his lips, for his was a painful
task. He wished to utter a severe reprimand,
and to appeal to the young man's sense of
right and Wrong, while here at the outset was
the mother bird spreading her protecting wing
before her errant chick, and ready, the Eector
saw, to stand up boldly in his defence.

'* Let me punch up your pillow for you,
dear," said Cyril, bending over the couch, and
raising the slight frame of the sick woman,
whose arms closed softly round the young
man's neck, while he beat and turned the soft
down pillow, lowering the invalid gently back
into her former place, and kissing her tenderly
upon the brow.

That's better," he said. " I hate a hot
pillow, and it's so comfortable when it's
turned."

Mrs. Mallow clung fondly to her son for a
few moments, smiling gratefully in his face ;
and the Rector sighed and again bit his lip ashe
saw how moment by moment his task was
growing more difficult.

If he would only study her feelings in the
broader things of life," he said to himself; and
he took a turn or two impatiently about the
room.

Now, governor, I'm ready," said Cyril,
facing round suddenly, his mother holding his

hand between hers. " What's the last thing
I've done amiss ? "

Heaven knows," cried the Rector, startling
his wife by the way in which he suddenly
flashed into anger. "The last thing that I
have to complain of is that I cannot trust my

own son."

Ah, you mean with money, father," said
the young man, lightly. " Well, it does go
rather fast."

I mean my son's word," said the Rector,
quickly. " Cyril, last night you told me a lie."

Oh, no, no, no," cried the mother, quickly.
"It is some mistake, dear. Cyril would not
tell you what was not true."

The Rector, after years of patience, was so
thoroughly out of temper with the discovery
of that day that he retorted hotly —

A lie — I say he told me a deliberate lie."

Nonsense ! " said the young man. " People
tell lies when they are afraid to tell the truth.
I'm not afraid to tell you anything."

You told me last night, sir, that you had
been down in the town with Frank, whereas
I find this morning that you had been at
Kilby Farm."

"Ha, ha, ha!" laughed Cyril. "Why,
what a discovery, father. You asked me
where I had been, and I told you — ' down the
town.' So I had. You did not ask me
whether I had been anywhere else, or I might
have added, to the Churchwarden's.-'

And pray why did you go there, sir ? "
cried the Rector.

Come, father, don't talk to me as if I were
a naughty little boy about to be sent to bed
without his supper."

Pray be calm, dear," cried Mrs. Mallow.
Cyril gives a very good explanation. Surely
it was natural that he should walk over to
Kilby."

I say why did you go over there, sir ? "

To smoke a pipe with old Portlock, if you
must know, and have a glass of his home-brewed

ale. It's dull enough here with the

girls."

It is false, sir' cried the Eector, excitedly.

Well," said Cyril, coolly, " you may not
find it dull, but I do."

I say, sir, it is false that you merely went
there to drink and smoke."

'^ Very well, father," said Cyril, in the most
nonchalant way, as he lay back in his chair
and played with his mother's rings. '* Perhaps
you know, then, why I went."

Oh, hush. Cyril, my boy," panted the
invalid. "Eli, my dear, pray be calm. This
hurts me — hurts me more than I can tell you."

I am sorry, my dear, very sorry," cried
the Rector, excitedly; "but it must be
stopped. I cannot allow matters to go on as
they do. It is terrible. I feel at every turn
as if I were being disgraced. I shiver as I go
down the town or make a call, for fear that I
should have to encounter some fresh disgrace
brought upon us by our own boys."

AVhat's the matter with the governor, ma,
dear ? " said the young man, mockingly. '^ Has
Frank been up to some fresh games ? "

Oh, hush, my dear boy' cried the poor
woman, imploringly.

ril be as quiet as I can, dear," replied
Cyril ; " but there are bounds to everything,
I am not a child."

No, sir, but you act like one — like a disobedient
child," cried his father. '' No matter
what is done for you, back you come home to
idle and lounge away your existence. The
idea of the nobility of labour never seems to
have dawned in your mind."

Never," replied Cyril, calmly. " Nobility
of labour, indeed ! Why, father, what's the
good of quoting stuff like that to me out of
one of your old sermons ? "

You are utterly wasting your life, sir."

Not I, father," retorted Cyril. " I am
rather enjoying it. Let those work who are
obliged. Why should I make myself a slave ?

I like my existence very well as it is, and
<lon't mean to bother."

It is disgraceful," cried the Eector, whose
usually bland face was now fierce with anger.

"Don't see it. I don't spend much, nor
yet get into debt. You've got plenty of
money, so why should I trouble myself about
work ? "

I'd forgive that," cried the Eector — '' I'd
forgive your idleness, but when I find that
you cannot be trusted, I am compelled to
speak. '*

But, my dear," remonstrated the invalid,
what has poor Cyril done ? He did not like
the wretched slavery out in the colony, and he
could not content himself with the drudgery
of a clerk's desk. Do not be so severe. Be
patient, and he will succeed like Frank has
done."

What has he done ? " cried the Rector.
What is he doing; but leading such a life as
must disgrace us all."

Nonsense, father ! " cried the young man.

"It is no nonsense, sir. Months ago I
spoke to you about your conduct, but it has
been in vain. People in all directions are
noticing your behaviour towards Miss Port-lock.
Just, too, when your sisters are about
to make excellent matches."

Miss Portlock ! " cried Mrs. Mallow, starting.
" Oh, Cyril ! "

Cyril acted like an animal brought to bay.
He began to fight. While there was a chance
of his father not being aware of his proceedings,
he fenced and parried. Now he spoke
out sharply —

Well, what do people say about my
behaviour with Miss Portlock ? She's a very
nice ladylike girl, well educated, and sweet
and clever, and if I like to chat with her, I
shall."

Oh, Cyril ! " cried his mother again ; and
then she added, " Is this true ? "

True ? Is what true ? That I have been

VOL. II. F

to Kilby sometimes to have a chat with Sage
Portlock ? Of course it is. Why not ? "

You own to it, then ? " said his father.

Own to it, if you like to call it so, sir.
And now, pray, where is the harm ? "

Mrs. Mallow withdrew her hand from her
son's grasp, and looked in his face with a
terribly pained expression, for, with all her
gentleness of disposition, the sense of caste was
in her very strongly ; and with all his failings,
she had looked upon Cyril as a noble representative
of the mingled blood of the old
family Mallows and the Heskeths from whom
she sprang.

I am to understand, then," said the
Rector, '' that you propose honouring us with
a daughter chosen from the people here."

I don't say yes, and I don't say no,"
replied Cyril, cavalierly. " I think I have
heard you say often that Sage was a very nice
girl."

Sage ? "

*' Yes, Sage. I think you had the pleasure
of baptizing her by her herbaceous name, so
you ought to know."

The Rector exchanged glances with his wife,
whose face wore a very pitiable look.

I have — yes — certainly — often said that
Miss Portlock was a very good, sensible girl,"
he said at last.

Well, then, what more do you want, sir ?
I suppose you expect a man to think about
such things at some time in his life ? "

"But have you proposed for her hand?"
said his mother, faintly.

Proposed for her hand ? Nonsense,
mamma. People of their class don't understand
things in that light."

This was a false move, and the Rector took
advantage of the slip*

People of that class, sir ? Then you
acknowledge that you are degrading yourself
by these proceedings."

*' Oh, I don't know about degrading myself,

sir. YoTi know what they say. If a lady
marries her groom she descends to his level.
If a man marries his cook he raises her to his."

But does Mr. Portlock — my Churchwarden
— know of your intentions 1 "

"How can he," said Cyril, coolly, "when I
have none ? "

"But Mrs. Portlock believes that you are
paying your attentions to her niece."

Yes, I repose so," he replied. " Terribly
silly woman."

Oh, Cyril, Cyril," said his mother, " this is
very, very shocking."

Stuff and nonsense, mamma. Why,
what a tremendous fuss about a little bit of
flirtation with a pretty little schoolmistress.
You nearly had her sister for a daughter-in-law
when Frank was after her."

"Frank saw the folly of his proceedings,
and grew sensible," said the Rector.
Oh, did he ! " muttered Cyril.
The word flirtation, Cyril," said the Rector,

A ROW. 69

firmly, "is a disgrace to our civilization, and
one that ought certainly to be heard from no
decent lips."

Matter of opinion, of course," said Cyril ;
and he placed his hands under his head and
stared straight out of the window, while the
Rector and his wife exchanged glances.

"Cyril," said the former at last, after a
struggle to keep down his anger, " I will not
quarrel with you."

That's right, governor. I hate quarrelling."

But while you are under my roof I must
be obeyed. ''

Don't think any man has a more obedient
son," replied Cyril.

"The time, however, has now come when
some plan must be devised for you to make a
fresh start in life upon your own account."

'Pon my word, father, I don't see it. I'm
very comfortable as I am."

But I am not, sir," replied his father,
firmly. "For years past it has been thrown

in my teeth that I am rightly named Eli.
You know why. It is time, now, sir, that
we took care not to be ashamed of the enemy
in the gate."

Please don't preach, father," said the
young man, in a tone of protestation.

The Rector paid no attention to his words,
but went on —

'let me ask you first," he said, 'one
question."

Go on," said the young man, for his father
had stopped.

Has Miss Portlock accepted your attentions
? "

There was a pause here.

I say, Cyril, has Miss Portlock accepted
your attentions ? "

Matter of confidence," replied the young
man. " Question I would rather not answer."

Then she has not," said the Rector, quickly,
and I am very, very glad,"

^' Why, father ? "

Because, as I have told you before, she is
receiving the attentions of Mr. Luke Ross."

'^ Oh, nonsense ! " cried Cyril, flushing.
'' That's all off now."

I heard something of the kind ; but what
do you mean ? Have they quarrelled ? "

Oh, no. Old Portlock wouldn't have it :
and quite right, too. Girl like that to be
engaged to such a clod ! "

*' Cyril," said his father, angrily, " I would
to heaven that I had as good a son."

'* Complimentary to your boys, sir. Let's
see, he threw you over very shabbily about
the school, didn't he ? "

"He declined the post, certainly."

"Then even Mr. Luke Ross is not perfect,
sir." L

''I am not going to criticize his conduct
over that matter, sir, beyond saying that he
had no doubt good reasons for declining the
post. On further consideration I think he
was right, for unless he felt his heart to be

in his work, he would have been wrong to
venture upon binding himself to the school."

Most worthy young man, I've no doubt,"
said Cyril, with a sneer.

^* A young man for whom I entertain a
great respect'' retorted the Rector.

'sone of those highly respectable young
men who push their way on in the world,"
sneered Cyril.

And often become great with the poorest
of means for pushing their way," said the
Rector, " while those well started miserably
fail."

Oh, yes ; I know 'em," said Cyril. '^ One
reads of them in the nice books. Bah ! I
haven't patience with the prigs ; and as for
this Luke Ross," he cried, with the colour
burning as two spots in his cheeks, '^ I look
upon him as one of the most contemptible cads
under the sun. You talk of wishing that you
had such a son, father ! Why the fellow is
utterly beneath our notice."

Why ? " said his father, in a sharp, incisive
tone.

'^ Why ? " replied Cyril. '^ Because he is."

A pitiful reply," said the Eector, angrily.
Can you give me a better reason for your
dislike to Luke Eoss ? "

Not I. He is not worth it."

Then I'll give you one," replied the
Rector. "The true one, Cyril, though it cuts
me to the heart to have to speak so to my son,
aud before the mother who has worshipped
him from his birth."

Oh, Eli, pray, pray spare me this," cried
Mrs. Mallow, supplicatingly.

"No," he said, " I have been silent too long
I have given way too much. It is time I
spoke out with no uncertain sound. Cyril,
you hate this man because he is your rival
in the affections of a good, true girl. Your
anger has taught me so far, and I rejoice
thereat. Your suit has been without success.
You teach me, too, that you would stop at

nothing, even blackening your rival's character,
to gain your ends ; but this must not be. I
look upon Sage Portlock as in my charge, and
I tell you, once and for all, that you must stop
this disgraceful pursuit. I say that it shall
not go on."

And how will you stop it, sir ? " cried
Cyril, springing to his feet, while the mother
lay back with clasped hands.

I don't know yet, but stop it I will," cried
Mr. Mallow. " You shall disgrace your mother
and sisters no looser — insult Miss Portlock no
more by your pursuit."

Insult her ? "

"Yes, sir, insult her. She is too good and
pure-hearted a girl for her affections to be
tampered with by such a heartless fellow
as you."

"Eli, Eli," moaned Mrs. Mallow, but her
cry was unnoticed by the angry men.

Tampered with ! Heartless ! Bah ! You
do not know what you are saying."

I know, my son, that the time has
come for me to strike. You must leave
here, and at once. Sage Portlock is not for
you. If you do not know your position in
life and your duty to your class, you must
he taught."

'' Then hear me now," cried the young man,
defiantly. "Luke Eoss is no rival of mine,
for he has never won Sage Portlock's heart.
That belongs to me ; and as to duty, caste,
and the like, let them go to the devil. Have
her I will, in spite of you all, and "

Silence, sir ! " cried the Rector, beside himself
with passion — the rage kept down for
years ; and he caught his son by the throat.
Man grown — no, you are a boy — a child,
Avhom I ought to soundly thrash for your
disobedience and shame. Son ? you are no
son of mine."

Loose me, father," cried the young man.
I will not bear this. Loose me, I tell you,
or "

Father and son had forgotten' themselves,
and in those brief moments of their struggle a
strange blindness had come over them. They
swayed to and fro, a little table covered
with china was overset with a crash, and,
at last, getting one hand free, Cyril clenched
his fist and struck out fiercely, just as a
wild and piercing scream rang through the
room.

CHAPTER XXV.

WHERE CYRIL WENT.

Mrs. Mallow's cry of horror as, after
struggling for the first time for many years
into an upright posture, she fell back, fainting,
had the effect of bringing father and son back
to their senses. Another second and CyriFs
clenched hand would have struck down the
author of his birth ; but at that cry his arm
fell to his side, and he stood there trembling
with excitement as the Rector quitted his hold,
and flung himself upon his knees by the couch.

He rose again on the instant to obtain water
and the pungent salts which were close at
hand, striving with all the skill born of so
many years' attendance in a sick room to
restore the stricken woman to her senses.

Frank had already left the house, but the
cry brought Julia and Cynthia into the room.

''Oh, mamma, mammal" wailed Julia, and
she too busied herself in trying to revive the
stricken woman.

Not so Cynthia, who took in the situation
at a glance, .and burst into a passion of sobs,
which she checked directly, and with flushed
face and flashing eyes she crossed to her
brother.

This is your doing," she cried ; ^' you will
kill mamma before you've done ; and Harry
mio"ht have been here and heard all this.
Cyril, I hate you ; you're as wicked as Frank ; "
and to her brothers utter astonishment she
struck him sharply in the face.

Little fool 1 " he growled fiercely, as he
caught her by the wrist, but only to fling her
ofl" with a contemptuous laugh. He made no
motion to help, but stood with frowning brow
and bitter vindictive eye watching his parents
alternately ; but though he went to and fro

many times, and passed close to his son, the
Rector never once looked at him, seeming
quite to ignore his presence there.

Constant efforts had their due effect at last,
for the unhappy mother uttered a low wailing
cry, and then, as her senses returned and she
realized her position, she began to sob bitterly,
clinging to Iter husband as he knelt by her,
bending his face down upon her hands as he
held them tightly in his own.

From where Cyril stood he could see his
father's face, that it was deadly pale, and that
his lips were moving rapidly as if in prayer,
and thus all staved for some little time, till the
laboured sobbing of the invalid died off into an
occasional catching sigh.

At last she unclosed her eyes, to fix them
appealingly upon her son, her lips moving,
thrush no audible words followed ; but the
look of appeal and the direction of her pathetically
expressive eyes told her wishes as she
glanced from Cyril to the carpet beside her

couch — told plainly enough her wishes, and
the young man read them aright — that he
should come there and kneel down at his
father's side.

"Not I," he muttered. "The old madman
! How dare he raise his hand to me
like that ! "

He thrust his hands in his pockets and
remained there with a look mingled of contempt
and pity upon his face as he watched the prostrate
figure of his father, while, as his mother's
appealing eyes were directed to him again and
again, he merely replied to the dumbly-uttered
prayer by an impatient shake of the head.

At last the Eector raised his eyes, and ashe
met his wife's agonized look, he smiled
gently, and then bent over her and kissed her
brow.

"It is passed, my love," he whispered.
God forgive me, I did not think I could
have sunk so low."

Julia passed her arm round her sister, and

drew her to the window, to lay her head upon
her shoulder and weep silently and long.

Cyril," said the Eector, in a broken voice,
as he rose and stood before his son, '^ you have
tried me hard, but I have done wrong. My
temper gained the better of me, and I have
been praying for strength to keep us both
from such a terrible scene again. Come down
with me to the study, and let us talk of the
future like sentient men. God forgive me,
my boy ; I must have been mad."

He held out his trembling hands, and Cyril
saw that he was evidently labouring under
great emotion, as he absolutely humiliated
himself before his son, his every look seeming
to ask the young man s forgiveness for that
which was past. But Cyril's anger was, if not
hotter, more lasting than his father's, and
rejecting the offer of peace between them, h(*
swung round upon his heels and strode out of
the room.

For a few minutes there was absolute silence,

Vt>L. II. G

as mother and father gazed at the door through
which the son had passed. Then, with a
piteous sob, Mrs. Mallow exclaimed —

Oh, Eli, Eli, what have we done ? "

Commenced the reaping of the crop of
weeds that are springing up in our sons' neglected
soil. Laura, I have tried to be a good
father to our boys, but my weakness seems to
stare me now in the face. I have been fond
and indulgent, and now. Heaven help me, I
have been weaker than ever in trying to amend
the past by an outbreak of foolish violence."

Go to him ; ask him to come back," sobbed
the mother.

Did I not humble myself to him enough ? "
said the Rector, with a pathetic look at his
wife.

Yes, yes, you did," she wailed ; " but this
is all so dreadful. Eli, it will break my
heart."

And yet I ought to be strong and stern
now, sweet wife," he said tenderly. " Authority

iras long[ been thrown to the winds. Had I
not better strive hard to gather up the reins
and curb his headlong course ? "

It will break my heart' the unhappy
woman sobbed. "It is so dreadful — so horrible,
to me, love. Eli, husband — my patient, loving
husband, bring him back to me or I shall die."

I will fetch him back, Laura," said the
Rector, softly, as he bent down once more and
kissed the cold, white forehead of his wife.

Then, rising with a sigh, he softly moved
towards the door, turning once to smile at the
troubled face he left behind.

As he turned, the suffering woman held out
her arms, and he walked back quietly to sink
upon his knees by her side.

Pray," she said, softly. " Pray for help
and guidance in this storm." And once more
there was silence in the room.

"He is our boy," whispered Mrs. Mallow,
as the Eector rose. "Be patient with him,
Eli, and all will yet be well. Indeed, indeed,

he is good and true of heart. See how tenderly
he waits on me."

Just for a minute, now and then," the
Eector thought ; *' and only when it does not
clash with some selfish object of his own."
And then he fell to thinking of his own years
upon years of constant watchfulness and care,
and smiled sadly as he saw how that at times
the little far outshone the great.

But nothing in his countenance betokened
aught but the tenderest sympathy and love for
her he was leaving behind, as, once more going
to the door, the Eector passed through, and
descended to his study, leaving Mrs. Mallow
weeping in her daughters' arms.

Here he shut himself in for a few minutes,
and rapidly paced the floor, holding his hands
the while to his rugged brow.

*rit is too much — it is too much!" he



groaned, panting with the great emotion to
which his soul was prey. "If it was not for
my girls ! If it was not for my girls ! "

Then lie threw himself into his chair, and
sat leaning forward with his fingers seeming
to be driven into the soft padding of the arms,
which he clutched with fierce vehemence.

But by degrees the gust of passion passed
over, leaving him calm and cool as, once more
rising, he smoothed his countenance, and went
out of the room in search of Cyril.

He was not in the dining-room, nor yet in
the little room where he was in the habit of
sitting to read and smoke, while the state of
the garden was not such as to induce him to
wander there.

The Eector went up softly to his son's room,
but without finding him ; and at last he went
into the dining-room and rang the bell.

Where is Mr. Cyril ? " the Eector asked.

He went out about half-an-hour ago, sir."

"With Mr. Frank?"

'*No, sir; Mr. Frank went out before that."

"Did he say what time he would be back ?"

*' No, sir ; but Williams came in just now.

sir, with Lord Artingale's mare for Miss
Cynthia."

Yes ? "

"And said he met Mr. Cyril in the lane
leading to Kilby Farm."

*' Indeed ! "

Yes, sir ; and he was walking up and
down as if he expected somebody to come."

CHAPTER XXVI.

AN Interruption

From the way in which people talk of the
tender passion it might be supposed to be one
long dream of bliss ; but a little examination
of other people's hearts, and the teachings of
the knowledge thus obtained with the experience
of years, will go far to show that it is as
often as not very far from being a dream, being,
in fact, a time of misery, disappointment, and
oftentimes of despair.

The earlier days of Sage Portlock's maidenhood
had glided peacefully away. She had
had her troubles and annoyances like the
rest of the world, but they were little, and
barely ruffled the even current of her life.

She bad been troubled somewhat over her
sister's love affair with Frank Mallow, and had
been Rue's confidante. Now that stormy time
had passed away, and she had smiled over the
wedding with John Berry, and laughingly
accepted her position of Aunt Sage to the two
little children that were born.

Luke Ross had been her playmate till a
tenderer attachment had sprang up as girlhood
passed into womanhood, and the boy
became a thoughtful man. There was a thrill
of pride ready to run through her, making
the colour suffuse her cheeks, as she knew
that she was loved ; and with the thought
came a proud elation that made her feel
happier than she believed she had ever felt
before.

But that was all. She loved Luke, she
told herself, very dearly, and some day she
would be his wife ; but she felt happy enough
when he went away to London, and somehow,
though she used to consider that she was the

happiest of women, this calm, trusting letters
did not seem to awaken any echoes in her
heart ; while hers to him were pleasant little
bits of gossipping prattle, ending with "the
dear love of yours very, very affectionately,
Sas^e."

o

Yes, she was very fond of Luke, she used
to say to herself, and by and by they would
be so happy together ; but she felt in no
hurry for by and by to come. Existence was
very pleasant as it was, and once she was
back in Lawford from the training institution
and enraged in the school, she seemed to wish
for nothing more.

Luke Eoss wrote, and twice during his
absence there he came home, and. they had
very pleasant walks and chats, and were very
boy-ands girlish together, laughing away till a
serious fit would come on, when they discussed
the future, the cost of housekeeping, and she
laughed merrily again at the idea of being
Luke's little housekeeper and wife.

But there was no passionate attachment on
her side — no tears at meeting or at parting.
All was wonderfully matter-of-fact. She was
very happy, she felt, and she could see that.
Luke was, and what more could she desire ?

Then came the change, and Sage was face
to face with the fact that she had promised
herself to a man for whom she had never
entertained a warmer feelings than that of
friendship, or the love of a sister for brother,
and that at last she had found her fate.

Was it a feeling of rapturous delight ?

Far from it ; for from that day her nights
were sleepless, and too often her pillow was
wet with the hot tears of her misery and
distress.

On the day of the serious quarrel between
father and son Sage was in better spirits than
she had been in for some days. A letter had
come from Luke telling her of his progress
in London ; of his father's willingness to make
him a sufficient allowance for the object he

had in view, a matter which had been settled
since he came up, and that he had taken
what his landlord called " chambers " in a
legal part of town.

So light-hearted was Sage that day that
she laughed over Luke's merry description
of his chambers as being so many square feet
of emptiness, with a cupboard in which he
had to sleep.

He gave her a very graphic account of the
way in which he had furnished his rooms, of
how he walked into Fleet-street every day to
have a chop for this dinner, and how the
woman who made his bed prepared his breakfast
and tea, and then followed a sentence
which made Sage laugh merrily — a laugh
that was repeated several times during school
hours, to the great astonishment of the
girls.

And it is wonderful what a very little
while half-astound of tea seems to last."

That was the sentence which amused her,

and fur a time Cyril Mallow passed from ner
thoughts.

'' What a little time it lasts ! " she said
merrily, as soon as the school had been dismissed,
and she was putting on her hat.
Poor boy ! of course, he knows nothing at
all about housekeeping ; and only to think,"
she mused, "how dreadful it must be to goon
living every day upon chops."

She started for home, thinking a great deal
of Luke, and telling herself that the fancies
that had of late come into her head were as
foolish as they were wicked, and that now
they were dismissed for ever.

What would Mr. Mallow himself think of
her? What would Mrs. Mallow say? She
shivered, and felt that unless she sternly
determined never to think of Cyril again,
she could not meet the Rector, who had
always been so kind and fatherly in his ways.

This had been a nasty dream — a day-dream
that had come over her, fostered by Cyril

Mallow's looks and ways. For he had followed
her about a great deal : watched for her so
that they might meet, and had constantly
been coming up to the farm of an evening,
where, though ostensibly chatting with lier
uncle, she could not raise her eyes without
encountering his.

She could not have explained it to herself,
but somehow Cyril Mallow had seemed to
influence her life, being, as it were, the very
embodiment of sin silently tempting her to
break faith with Luke Ross, and think only
of him who had come between.

She told herself constantly, when the
thoughts of Cyril Mallow intruded themselves,
that she loved Luke better than ever, and
that the coming of Cyril was hateful to her ;
but, al] the same, there was a strange liorht
in her eyes whenever she thought of him,
and her cheeks would burn and her pulses
flutter.

It was a strange way of hating, but she

told herself that it was hate, and on this ,
particular day the coming of Luke's letter
had seemed to strengthen her, and she began
planning what she would say in return ; how
she would give him good advice about his
housekeeping, say words of encouragement to
him about his studies, and praise his determination.
For was he not striving with all his
might ; had he not determined upon' this long
struggle for position that he might win her ?

And how could she do anything but love*
him '? Dear Luke I Indeed she would be
true to him, and write him such encouraging
letters — help him all she could. It was her
duty now, for though they were not regularly
affianced with her friends' sanction, she told
herself that her promise to him was sacred.

Yes," she said, half aloud, as she walked
thoughtfully on, "I love Luke very dearly,
and that other was all a bad, feverish kind
of dream, and I'll never think about it more.
It was wicked of Mr. Cyril, knowing what he

does, aud weak of me, and never again

Oh ! "

Did I make you jump, Sage ? " said a low
voice ; and Cyril came from the gate over
which he had been leaning, and jerked the
stump of a cigar away.

I — I did not see you, Mr. Cyril," she
said, faintly, and the tears sprang to her eyes.

And I frightened the poor little thing, did
I ? There, I'll be more careful next time ;
but. oh, what a while you have been''

Don't stop me, Mr. Cyril," she said, with
trembling voice ; " I must hurry home."

Well, you shall directly ; but. Sage, don't
please be so hard and cruel to me. You know
how humble and patient I have been, and yet
you seem to be one day warm, the next day
cold, and the third day hot and angry with
me. What have I done ? "

I do not understand you, Mr. Cyril," she
said, trying to speak sternly, and walking on
towards the farm.

'^ Then I will speak more plainly," be said,
suddenly dropping the bantering tone in
which he had addressed her for one full of
impassioned meaning. '' Sage, I love you withall
my heart, and when you treat me with
such cruel coldness, it makes me half mad,
and I say to you as I say now, what have
T done ? "

Oh, hush ! hush ! " she panted. '* You
must not speak to me like that. Mr. Cyril,
I beg — I implore you — never to address me
again. You know — you must know — that I
am engaged to Mr. Ross."

Engaged to Mr. Ross ! " he said, bitterly.
^' It is not true. There is no engagement
between you."

It is true," she panted, hurrying on, and
trembling for her weakness, as she felt how
strongly her heart was pleading for him who
kept pace with her, and twice had laid his
hand, as if to stop her, upon her arm.

^' I have your aunt's assurance that it is

not true," he continued; "and I have hoped,
Sage, I have dared to believe, that you were
not really fond of this man."

"Mr. Cyril, I beg — I implore you to leave
me," she cried.

If I left you now," he said, hoarsely,
feeling what I feel, knowing what I know,
it would be to plunge into some miserable,
reckless course that might end who can say
how ? What have I to live for if you refuse
me your love ? "

How can you be so cruel to me ? " she
cried, angrily. '* You insult me by these
words, Mr. Cyril. I am alone, and you take
advantage of my position. You know I am
engaged to Mr. Eoss."

I do not," he retorted, passionately. " I
do not believe it ; and I never will believe
it till I see you his wife. His wife ! " he continued.
" It is absurd. You will never be
Luke Ross's wife. It is impossible."

I will not — I cannot — talk to you," she

VOL, TI. H

cried, increasing her pace. It was on her lips
to add, " I dare not " ; but she checked herself
in time, as she glanced sidewise at him, for
with a feeling of misery and despair, strangely
mingled with pleasure, she felt that all her
good resolutions were being swept away by
her companion's words, and, in an agony of
shame and dread lest he should read her
thoughts, she once more hurried her steps.

'' You cannot throw me off like that," he
said, bitterly. "I will not be pitched over
in this contemptuous manner. Only the
other day you looked kindly and tenderly
.at me."

'* Oh no, no, no," she cried, *' it is not true."

"It is true enough," he said, sadly, " and
I mean to be patient. I cannot believe you
care for this man. It is impossible, and I
shall wait."

No, no, Mr. Cyril' she pleaded. " I can
never listen to such words again. Think of
your father and your mother. Mr. Mallow

would never forgive me if he knew I had
listened to you like this."

"Let him remain unforgiving, then," cried
Cyril. " As for my mother, she loves her son
too well not to be ready to do anything to
make him happy."

Pray, pray go," she moaned.

No," he said, sternly, " I will not go.
You torture me by your coldness, knowing
what you do. Do you wish to drive me to
despair ? "

I wish you to go and forget me," she
cried, with spirit. "As a gentleman, Mr.
Cyril, I ask you, is such a course as this
manly ? "

He was silent for a few moments, glancing
at her sidewise the while.

"No," he said, "it is neither manly nor
gentlemanly, but what can you expect from
a miserable wretch against whom all the
world seems to turn ? Always unsuccessful
—always hoping against hope, fighting against

II 2

fate, I find, now I come home, that the little
girl I always thought of when far away has
blossomed into a beautiful woman. How, I
know not, but I wake to the fact that she
has made me love her — idolize her — think of
her as the very essence of my being."

"Mr. Cyril," pleaded Sage ; but he kept on.

*^ A new life appears to open out to me, and
my old recklessness and misery seem to drops
away. I waken to the fact that there is
something to live for — something to rouse
me to new effort, and to work for as an
earnest man should work. I did not seek
her out ; I did not strive to love her," he
continued, as if speaking to some one else ;
'' but her love seemed to come to me, to
en weave itself with my every thought."

I will not listen," panted Sage, but her
heart whispered, " Luke never spoke to me
like that."

*' I fought against it for a time," he went
on, dreamily, " for I said to myself this would

be wronging her. She is engaged to another,
and I should only make her unhappy and
disturb the even tenor of her ways."

Which you have done," she cried, in
piteous tones.

Do not blame me," he said, softly. " I
fought hard. I swore I would not think of
you, and I crushed down what I told myself
was my mad love within my breast ; but
when, by accident, I found that I was wrong,
and that no engagement existed between you
and Luke Eoss "

But there is, there is," she cried. " Once
more, Mr. Cyril, pray leave me."

"A few mere words of form, Sage. You
do not love this man ; and, besides, your
relatives have not given their consent. Oh,
listen to me. Why should you condemn me
to a life of reckless misery ? You know how
I have been drifting for years without an
anchor to stay me. You are that anchor
now. Let me cling to you for my father's.

mv mother's sake : for if you cast me off,
continue this cruel wrong, you drive me once
more from home, to go floating aimlessly,
without a chance of becoming a better man.
You cannot be so harsh."

I cannot listen to you," she murmured.

"I tell you," he cried, "that if you cast
me off you condemn me to a life of misery
and despair. Sage, dear Sage," he cried,
catching her hand, " I have been wild and
foolish, but I have the making in me of a
better man. Help me to live aright. You
are so good, and pure, and sweet — so wise
and gentle. Be my guide and helpmate, and
those at home will bless you. Am T always
to plead in vain ? "

How can I look Luke Ross in the eyes
aojain if I listen to svich words as these ? ''

'' Luke Ross ? Am I to stand idly by and
let Luke Ross, the cold, careless cynic, snatch
you from my arms ? "

How dare you speak of him like that ? "

she cried, angrily. " He is all that is wise
act good."

And worships you so dearly that he has
gone away for three years, at least, to prove
to you his love."

"It is a great act of noble forbearance,"
she said, proudly, ^' and you slander him by
your words."

I hope I do," he said ; " but they were
wrung from me by my misery and suffering.
But no, I will not believe you can be so cruel
to me. I know that I may hope."

They were nearing the gate leading into
the treat home field, and Sas^e, trembling and
agitated to a terrible degree, hurried on, feeling
that, once within sight of the house, Cyril
Mallow would leave her. Her mind was confused,
and the struggle going on between
duty and inclination was terrible ; while the
knowledge that she was so weak and yielding
towards her companion half maddened her for
the time.

Why do you hurry on so ? " he pleaded.
*' Am I to be driven away ? Am I to leave
home, and go anywhere that fate may drift
me i

Oh, no, no, no," she moaned. " This is
too cruel to me. Pray, pray leave me now."

Then I may hope ? "

No," she cried, with a fresh accession of
strength, as she laid her hand upon the
gate ; " I have promised to be Luke Eoss's
wife."

His you shall never be," he said, in a
hoarse whisper. " You do not love him, and
you shall not fling yourself away. Sage, you
shall be mine, and "

Well, young man, are you obliged to
whisper what you say to my niece ? Come,
Sage, my girl, it's time you were indoors."

"Uncle!" cried Sage, joyously, as she
sprang to his side with a sigh of relief.

"Yes, my girl," he said, coldly, "it is
uncle;" and he stuck his thistle staff down

into the soft earth, and leaned his hands upon
the round top. '' You can go on," he continued
; " I'm not coming home yet."

'' But, uncle," she cried, excitedly.

Go home, my lass," he said, imperatively.

Yes, dear," she half sobbed ; " but you
will not "

I say go home ! " he shouted ; and, with a
low wail, she turned off, and walked hurriedly
towards the farm, her uncle standing watching
her, while Cyril Mallow coolly took a cigar-case
from his breast pocket, opened it, carefully
selected a cigar, picking, choosing, and
returning; one after the other till he had
found one to his fancy, when he snapped to
the case once more and thrust it back in his
pocket, afterwards biting off the cigar-end
and proceeding to light it with a fusee that
evinced a strong dislike to burst into sparks
and then smoulder away.

As he did this, however, he kept glancing
furtively at the Churchwarden, who was

watching the retiring form of Sage ,lier troubled
mien winning a glance or two from Cyril as
well.

The cigar burned badly, and had to be
lit again, this time being watched by the
Churchwarden with a kind of good-humoured
contempt for the man who could smoke those
rolls of tobacco-leaf in place of an honest pipe.

At last the cigar drew freely, and the eyes
of the two men met.

*' I'm in for another row now," said Cyril,
to himself. " Awkward ; very. Never mind ;
I don't care."

Now, young man," said Portlock, at last,
in a very short, blunt fashion, '' it seems tome
that you and I had better have a few
words together of a sort."

When and where you please," said Cyril,
carelessly.

Let's walk along here, then," said the
Churchwarden, pointing down the lane with
his thistle staff.

Away from the farm, eh ? " thought Cyril.
All right, old friend." Then aloud, " Whichever
way you please, sir."

I didn't know things had gone so far as
this," continued the Churchwarden, leading
the way. *' People say that you are the idlest
chap in these parts ; but it seems to me that,
with the work thou likest, thou canst be as
busy as the best."

Cyril flushed a little, and bit his lip, for he
told himself that he was a gentleman, and the
farmer was making far too free in his way of
address ; but he checked his annoyance, and
said quietly —

Perhaps, sir, you will kindly explain what
you mean." Then, after a furtive glance at
the stern, angry-looking man, he muttered to
himself —

You dare not strike me ; and, as to your
words, say what you like — little Sage is

mine."

Now, sir," exclaimed Sage's uncle, after

a few moments' pause, "will you have the
goodness to explain the meaning of the scene
I have just witnessed ? '^

Explain, sir ? " said Cyril, coolly ; " surely
it needs no explanation. I am young, and
of one sex ; Miss Portlock is young and of
the other sex, and a mutual attachment lias
sprung up." -)

Mutual ! "

Well, yes; I hope so, sir. Perhaps, though,
I ought to be content with alluding to my own
feelings."

Humph ! Your own feelings, eh ? And
pray does Mr. Cyril Mallow mean to say that
he has become attached to my niece ? "

Certainly he does, sir. You are not surprised
? "

But T am surprised," said the farmer,
angrily, " and I am very glad to have witnessed
what I did before the mischief went
further. Now, look here, Mr. Cyril Mallow, I
am a man of business, and when I have an

unpleasant matter to tackle I go straight to it
at once."

'* A very good plan," said Cyril, calmly.

I'm glad you think so, sir," said the
Churchwarden, ironically. "And now, if you
please, we'll walk straight up to the rectory."

What for ? " cried Cyril, who was startled
by his words.

What for ? Why to talk this matter over
with your father."

But suppose he does not approve of the
engagement, Mr. Portlock ? " said Cyril, who
was taken somewhat aback by this very
prompt way of treating the affair.

'* Approve ? Whoever thought he would
approve, sir ? Of course he does not, anymore
than I do. What I want is for you to
be given to understand in a quiet way that it
is time you gave up visiting at my place exchanging
about to catch sight of my little
girl, when she is leaving or going to the
school."

*'Mr. Portlock!" exclaimed Cyril, haughtily.

"Mr. Cyril Mallow!" cried the Churchwarden.
" Now just look here, sir. If I
were one of your set, should you be making
approaches to my niece in the way you have ?
Not you : it would not be considered proper.
Aunt's and uncle's consent would be asked
first ; but as I'm only a farmer, I'm hardly
worth notice. It seems that my little lassie
has taken your fancy, and so you come
running after her ; but not a word tome.


But hear me a minute," protested Cyril.

No, sir; nor yet half a minute. A farmer's
a man, if he is not what you call a gentleman,
and thinks as much of his people as the highest
in the land. I dare say, in your high and
mighty way, as our rector's son, and a gentleman
who has been at college, you think you
are stooping to notice my niece ; so let me tell
you, once for all, I don't think you are ; and,
what's more, it will be a far better man than

you have shown yourself to be who gets my
consent to make her his wife."

I can assure you, Mr. Portlock — ■ — " began
Cyril ; but the farmer would not hear him.
He was thoroughly angry, and his face flushed
up a deep red.

And I can assure you, sir, that I want no
such reckless, idling fellow seeking after my
niece. AYe had bother enough when your
brother was after Sage's sister. I tell you,
then, plainly, once for all, that I won't have
it ; so don't show your face at my place
again."

He turned sharply round and strode off",
leaving Cyril mortified and angry ; for, in his
way, he had felt that he was stooping, and
falling away from his position, in noticing the
little schoolmistress, so that this sharp rebuff
came like a rude shock to his feelings, and
made the eiid at which he aimed seem less
likely to be achieved.

Confound his insolence ! " he cried, as he

saw the broad back of the farmer disappearing
through his own gate. "It is too bad to be
borne'

But in a few minutes' time, as he walked
slowly homeward, he began to smile and think
over his position.

"Let him talk and speak loud," he said.
1 thought he was going to threaten me once.
What does it matter ? My father is dead
against it, and he and Master Portlock will
make common cause against me. But what
does it matter when Aunt Portlock is on
my side, and little Sage is as good as won ?
Then, as to madame, my poor mother ? Pish !
she will refuse me nothing. So, Master
Churchwarden, I have three women on my
side, and the game is mine, do what you
like."

He walked on a little way, amusing himself
the while by thinking of the divided sides,
and how much stronger his must be.

Let them fight us," he said, laughing.

We shall be four to two, and we must
win ; but stay, I had forgotten another enemy
Master Luke Ross. Poor fellow ! " he said,
contemptuously, " his chance against me is
about the value of nil'

VOL. II.

CHAPTER XXVII.

AFTER A PIPE.

Mrs. Portlock was in the great kitchen of
the farm as Sage hurried through, and she
stared with astonishment at the girl's excited
way.

'' Why, heyday ! Sage " she began.

Don't stop me, aunt," cried Sage, excitedly ;
and, running up-stairs, she shut herself in the
room, threw herself upon her knees by her
bed, and covered her face with her hands,
sobbing as if her heart would break.

She's been having a quarrel with him,"
said Mrs. Portlock to herself, " or she wouldn't
take on like that. They must be getting on
then, or they wouldn't quarrel."

Mrs. Portlock paused here to go and scold
one of the maids for picking out all the big
lumps of coal and leaving the small, but she
came back into the kitchen to think about her
niece.

"He's a deal better than Luke Eoss," she
said to herself, "for Luke's only a tradesman
after all. There's no mistake about it, he
means our Sage ; and where, I should like to
know, would he find a better girl ? "

There was a pause here, during which Mrs.
Portlock indulged in a few retrospects concerning
Eue, and the time when she was in
such trouble about Frank.

But Cyril is a better disposed young man
than his brother, I am sure," she said, half
aloud. "He is his mother's favourite too.
I wonder what Mrs. Mallow will say ! "

Mrs. Portlock said this aloud, and then
stopped short, alarmed at her own words, for
she called up the face of the calm, dignified
Rector entering the place, looking at her

I 2

reproachfully, and ready to blame her for her
assumption in encouraging his son's visits.

Oh, my gracious ! " she ejaculated, half in
horror, for her imagination for the time began
to run riot, and she saw that, even if Cyril
Mallow was very fond of Sage, and even if
Same returned his love, matters would not run
quite so smoothly as she had anticipated.

"I'm sure she's as good as he," she exclaimed,
by way of indignant protest to the accusations
of her conscience ; but, all the same, she was
now brought face to face with the consequences
of her tacit encouragement of Cyril Mallow's
visits.

And I'm sure we're as well off as they
are," she added, after a pause. But, all the
same, her conscience would not be quieted,
and Mrs. Portlock was on the point of going
up to her niece's room, when, with a fresh
qualm of dread, though she hardly knew why,
she saw her husband come striding up toward
the house.

Meanwhile Sage's breast was racked by
conflicting emotions, chief amongst w^hicli was
that suggested by a self accusation from her
wounded heart ; and she knelt there, sobbing
and praying for help, feeling that she was
intensely wicked, and that the hopeless misery
of her case was greater than she could bear.

Her mind was in a chaos, and she shuddered
as she clung to the coverlet, and dragged it
over her drawn and excited face, as one
moment it was the stern, reproachful figure of
Luke Ross asking her if this was her faith —
this the meaning: of her tender, loving; letters
this the reward of his chivalrous determination
to give up everything to the one
idea of making himself a worthy suitor with
her relatives ; the next it was Cyril, gazing
at her with despairing eyes, which seemed to
say that if she cast him off he should drift
recklessly through the world, and come to
some bad end ; while, did she bless him with
her love, he would become a worthy member

of society, a happy man, and one of whom she
(hould feel so proud.

Then her heart began to plead for him so
hard that she trembled, for she seemed to be
awakening, as it were, into a new life, and
her dread increased as she more fully realized
the power Cyril Mallow had gained over her.
She fought hard, and set up barrier after
barrier, called up by her intense desire to be
honourable and true to her trust. But as fast
as she set these up they seemed to be swept
away ; and, as the excitement brought on by
her misery increased, she felt ready to cry
aloud to Luke to come back to her and protect
her from Cyril Mallow and from her owA
weak self.

"Sage! Sage!"

It was her uncle's voice calling up the stairs
a voice by which she could interpret every
mood of his spirit ; and she knew now that
he was very angry.

^' Sage ! " came again in a voice of thunder,

and so full of impatience that she was forced
to cross to the door, open it. and answer.

I want my tea," came up in an angry
roar.

It was in Sage's heart to say she was too
unwell to come down, but in her then agitated
state she could only falter that she would not
be a minute, and, hastily bathing her eyes and
smoothing her hair, she descended, pale and
trembling, to where her aunt was looking very
white and startled, and her uncle walking up
and down the old-fashioned parlour, impatient
for his evening meal, one of which he would
rarely partake unless his niece was there to
attend to his wants.

The Churchwarden's lips parted, and he was
about to speak out angrily, but the woe-begone
looks of the girl silenced him.

I'll have a cup of tea first, and do it over
a pipe," he said to himself. Then aloud —

Come, my girl, I'm hungry ; it's past teatime,"
and he took his place at the foot of the

table, the others seating themselves, after
exchanging a scared glance ; and then the
meal went on much as usual, only that Mrs.
Portlock tried to calm herself by constant applications
to the teapot, while, in spite of her
efforts, Sage could hardly partake of a morsel,
for the food seemed as if it would choke
her.

" Come, come, lass, you don't eat," her uncle
kept saying ; and the poor girl's struggles to
keep back her tears were pitiable.

But at last the weary meal came to an end,
and as the table was cleared both aunt and
niece grew hopeful, for the Churchwarden's
brow was less rugged as he went to the ledge
where his pipe lay, took the tobacco-box placed
at his elbow by his niece, and calmly proceeded
to fill his pipe.

Don't look so frightened. Sage," whispered
her aunt. *' He won't say any more now."

"Yes, I shall," cried the farmer gruffly, for
his hearing seemed to have become preternaturally

sharpened. " Wait till the room's
clear."

The troubles of that one afternoon seemed
to have wrought quite a change in Sage, for as,
according to her custom, she took a folded
spill from the mantelshelf, and lit it ready to
hold to her uncle's pipe, her eyes looked wild
and dilated, while her usually rounded cheeks
seemed quite hollowed, giving her a wild,
haggard aspect, such as is seen in one newly
risen from a bed of sickness.

Yes, I'm going to talk seriously to both
of you," continued the Churchwarden ; '' but
I'm not going into a passion, now. That's
over. Get your work, both of you, and sit
down."

The trembling women obeyed, after exchanging
quick glances ; Mrs. Portlock's being accompanied
by a movement of her lips, which
Sage interpreted to be " I can't help it."

The work-baskets were brought to the table,
and as the Churchwarden sat placidly smoking

and staring at the fire, the sharp twit of needle
against thimble was heard in the stillness,
which was not otherwise broken till the farmer
took his pipe from his lips and uttered a
stern —

Now then."

Sage started quickly back from where her
thoughts had wandered after Cyril Mallow,
whom in imagination she had just overtaken
and brought back from a wandering life, to
bless him and make him happy, while Luke
Ross had forgiven her, and every one was
going to be happy once again.

'' Hold your tongue, mother," said the
farmer, sharply. '^ I've given you a bit of my
mind."

Indeed, you have," she cried, querulously,
and, I must say, soon "

'^No, you mustn't," he shouted. "I'm
going to talk this time. You generally do all
that ; but it's my turn now."

Oh, just as you like, Joseph," said Mrs.

Portlock, in an ill-used, protesting tone ; "but
I must say ''

No, you mustn't," he cried again, bringing
his hand down heavily upon the table with
such an effect upon his wife, whose nerves
were still shaken by the verbal castigation she
had received before tea, that she started from
her chair, hesitated a moment, and then ran
sobbing out of the room.

For a moment the Churchwarden sat frowning.
Then he half rose as if to call her back,
but directly after he subsided into his place,
and sat frowning sternly at his niece.

'' Let her go," he said. " I've said my
mind to her. Now I want to talk to you."

Sage hesitated, with her work in her hand ;
then, letting it fall, she went to the other side
of the table and knelt down, resting her
elbows upon her uncle's knees, and gazing
appealingly in his face.

The Churchwarden in his heart wanted to
clasp her in his arms and kiss her pale, drawn

face, but he checked the desire, and, putting
on a judicial expression —

Now," he exclaimed. " So you are playing
fast and loose with Luke Eoss ? "

No, uncle," she replied, softly.

What do you call it, then ? Of course
there is no engagement between you, but
Luke expects that some day you will be his
wife."

Yes, uncle'

*' And as soon as his back is turned, I find
you encouraging this fellow, Cyril Mallow."

No, indeed, uncle, 1 have not," cried Sage.

I don't be "

He stopped, for there was something in his
niece's eyes which checked him.

^' Well, it looks very bad," he said ; " and
one thing is very evident — he, after a fashion,
thinks of you, and he has the impudence to
say that you care for him."

Oh ! "

It was more like a sigh than an ejaculation.

and Sage's eyes seemed to contract now with
pain.

I've given aunt a good talking to, for she's
more to blame than you. She thinks it a fine
thing for the parson's boy to be coming hanging
about here after you, same as Frank did
after E,ue, and much good came of it. She
had the impudence to tell me that he was a
gentleman, while Luke Ross was only a tradesman's
son. As if that had anything to do
with it. * Look here,' I said to her : ' whenever
our girl weeds, it shall be to some one with a
good income, but he shall be a man.' Gentleman,
indeed ! If Cyril Mallow is a gentleman,
let my niece marry a man who is nothing
of the sort."

Sage's eyes closed, and there was a pitiful,
pained expression in her face that told of
the agony of her heart. So troubled was her
countenance that her uncle was moved to pity,
and spoke more tenderly.

"I don't like him well enough for you, my

girl, even if there were no Luke Ross in the
way. I've sent him off to work for thee, like
Jacob did for Rachel, and if he's the man I
think him, some day he'll come back in good
feather, ready to ask thee to be his wife, and
you'll neither of you be the worse for a few
years' wait''

Sage's eyes remained closed.

I was going to scold thee," he said, tenderly,
" but my anger's gone, and 111 say but
little more, only tell me this — You don't care
a bit for this young spark of the Rector's."

Sage's face contracted more and more, and
the Churchwarden cried, impatiently —

Well, girl, why don't you answer ? " ,

She gazed up in his face with a pleading
expression of countenance that startled him,
and he placed his hands upon her shoulders,
and looked fully in her eyes.

'why, Sage 1" he cried, " you don't mean
you don't say that you like him instead of
Luke ? "

She covered her face with her hands, and
burst out into a violent fit of sobbing:.

I don't know, uncle. I don't know."

Don't know ! " he cried, angrily.

Pray ask me no more," she cried, as her
uncle started from his seat, thrusting back the
chair in the act. She crouched down upon
the carpet, weeping bitterly, for she did know
now, though no pressure would have torn the
secret from her heart.

CHAPTER Xxviii

JOCK MUSES.

There was a troubled heart at the rectory
as well as at the farm, where Julia Mallow, Id
spite of having been so far a firm, matter-office
girl, had found her meetings with the
wheelwright's bis: ruffian brother make so
strong an impression that although she made
a brave effort to cast it all aside as unworthy
of her, she was always living under
the idea that this man was at her elbow, ready
to meet her with his intent, half-mocking gaze.
Once or twice she had nervously alluded toit
when chatting with her sister, but Cynthia
had merrily told her not to be so silly, for

papa said the man must have just come out of
prison, and spoken like that out of spite.

Depend upon it, Julie, you'll never see
him again."

Julia said nothing, but went to the window
of her room, and sat there reading, and now
and then lifting her eyes to gaze out at the
pleasant prospect right across the fields to the
ridge about a quarter of a mile away, beyond
which the land sank at once towards Kilby
Farm.

The next moment with a faint cry she
shrank back, for even at that distance she
seemed to recognize the burly form of the
rough fellow, seen boldly standing out against
the sky as he appeared to be crossing the
ridge. Then as she gazed at the figure with
starting eyes it went over the edge of the hill
and was gone.

'' I shall never dare to go out alone," she
said hoarsely. *' Heaven help me ! What
shall I do ? "

VOL. II. K

This was quite a couple of montis after the
meeting in the lane, during all which time the
poor girl felt as if she were haunted by the
fellow's presence, and his words were always
ringing in her ears.

The time had slipped away, and company
had come and gone. The Perry-Mortons had
been down for a second visit, ostensibly for
discussions with the Rector concerning the
decorations of the town house, but Cynthia
read it — and told Lord Artingale her reading
that it was to worm round poor Julia, and
that was what papa meant. Didn't he think
it was a shame ?

Lord Artingale agreed with her that it was,
and between them they decided in alliance todo
all they could to prevent it ; but unfortunately
for Julia, this pair of egotists thought
of little else but themselves — thoughts that
were varied by a little squabbling when
Cynthia showed what a peppery temper she
possessed.

Julia was looking languidly forward to the
middle of May, when the town house was to
be ready, and in busy London she felt that
she should be free from the haunting presence
which afflicted her so sorely that she even felt
glad of Mr. Perry-Morton's poetical rhapsodies
as a kind of protection, though there was something
terrible in his presence. In fact, this
gentleman showed his admiration in a way that
Was painful in the extreme. He said little, but
he loved her with his eyes, and when Mr. Perry-morton
loved he did it in a sculpturesque
manner, sitting or standing in some wonderful
position, at a short distance, and then
gloating — no, a Philistine would have gloated
he, one of the chosen of the Eaphaelistic
brotherhood, dreamed over his beloved, mentally
writing fleshly poems the while — wondrous
visions of rapt joyousness, mingled with ethereal
admiration.

But it wanted a month yet to the time for
leaviijof the rectory, and though Julia had not

K 2

seen her horror again, she felt that he was
near, and that at some unexpected moment he
would start up, perhaps when she was alone.

Matters there as regarded Cyril were in
abeyance. He was, as he told himself, playing
a waiting game. Sage would have a nice
bit of money, he knew, and he thought it
Avould be a pity to spoil his prospects by hurried
play.

Besides, he was in no hurry, for he had the
companionship of Frank, and together they
went a great deal to the King's Head, where
there was an old billiard-table. At other
times they drove over to Gatley, where Lord
Artingale placed everything he possessed at
their service. There was a good billiard-table
there, horses, and wine, and cigars to their
hearts' content.

Then each had a little private business
to attend to, about which they made no
confidences, and rarely interfered with or joked
each other, it being a tacit arrangement that

no questions should be asked if Frank was
going over to Lewby for a chat with John
Berry, or Cyril had made up his mind for a
stroll down by the wheelwright's, where there
were a few dace to be whipped for in the
stream.

Spring had come earlier that year, and
while Luke Eoss thought the Temple gardens
and the trees in Gray's Inn poor dejected-looking
affairs, down by Lawford everything
was looking its best, for Spring's children were
hard at work striving; to hide the rusty traces
of the wintry storms.

Early in April the banks and the edges of
the woods were alive with flowers, glossy-leaved
celandines showed their golden stars,
brightly-varnished arms peered up with their
purple-spotted states and leaves, the early
purple orchids brightened the dark-green here
and there. Clusters of soft pale lilac cuckoo-flowers
were springing up amongst the clumps
of catkin-laden hazels, oak saplings with bark

like oxidized silver, and osiers with orange
stems and polished silver buds, while every
bank and coppice was sprinkled with sulphur
yellow where the primroses bloomed. There
was mating and marrying going on in feather-land
to the blackbird's fluting, and the twittering
of many throats, and one soft, warm day,
when the east wind had been driven back by
a balmy breathing from the west and south,
Cynthia made a dash at her sister, and laughingly
passed the string of her hat over her
head, thrust a basket in her hand, and led
her off" to gather violets.

** Let's be little children once again, Julie,"
she cried. *' I want a rest. It has been
nothing but spooning, and nonsense lately
with Cyril and the pretty schoolmistress."

Papa has been in sad trouble about it
lately, Cynthy," said Julia, thoughtfully.

Yes, but let's hope it is all over now ; I
think it is."

T don't know," said Julia, thoughtfully.

I think I do," cried Cynthia. " Papa
frightened him. But how wonderfully quiet
our dear brother Frank is. I hope he is
not hatching some mischief."

"Don't be uncharitable, Cynthia," said
Julia, with a sad smile ; '* think the best of
your brothers."

"I do try to, Julie, but I'm afraid I'm not
very fond of my brothers."

Cynthia t"

Well, I'm not, dear. I feel quite ashamed
of them sometimes. It's quite shocking the
way they are imposing upon Harry, and he
takes it all so good-naturedly for my sake, but
he don't like it I'm sure."

"You are making the worst of it, Cynthy."

No, I'm not, for Harry — there, I won't talk
about it ; I'm tired of all the nonsense, spooning
and flirting with Harry and that fat-featured
oh ! why is it rude for a young lady to slap
such a fellow's face, Julie 1 If you marry that
Perry-morton I'U never speak to you again."

I shall never marry Mr Perry-Morton,"
said Julia, dreamily.

No, no ; we don't want to marry any one
at all," said Cynthia, merrily. '' Come and
let's be children in the wood again. It's
heavenly out of doors, dear. Come along."

Heavenly it was, as they got out of the
fields, and struck out through the woods,
where the soft moss was like a carpet beneath
their feet, and the air was redolent with scents
and suggestions of the spring. For it was one
of those days, of those very few days, that
come early in the year, when the senses seem
to be appealed to, and, in a delicious calm, the
worries and cares of life roll away, and the
spirit seems even troubled with the sweet
sense of joy.

The sisters had wandered far, and filled
their baskets, but still there were always fresh
blossoms to pluck, odorous violets or primroses,
and delicate scraps of moss or early leaf.

Cynthia was a couple of score yards away

from her sister, in the budding copse, trilling
a merry song, as if in answer to the birds, and
Julia, with a bright, happy flush upon her
face, was still eagerly piling up fresh sweets,
when a clump of primroses, fairer than any
she had yet gathered, drew her a few yards
further amongst the hazel stems.

She was in the act of stooping down topick
them when her flushed face became like
marble, her lips parted, her eyes dilated, and
she stopped — leaning forward — motionless —
fascinated by what she saw.

And that was the face of Jock Morrison, ashe
lay amongst the leaves and flowers, prone
upon his chest, his arms folded before him,
his chin resting upon them, and his eyes
literally seizing hers, not a yard away.

He did not speak or move, only crouched
there, staring at her as if he were some philosopher
trying the effect of the stronger eye
upon the weaker. Neither did Julia speak,
but stood there bending down, her eyes fixed.

her body motionless, while you might have
counted twenty.

Julie ! Where are you ? Coo-ee ! "

cynthia's bright young voice broke the spell,
and Julia's eyes closed as she backed slowly
away for a few yards before she dare turn and
run towards her sister.

Oh, there you are, Julie. If I did not
think you were in the other direction ! Why,
what's the matter ? Are you ill ? "

"No, no," said Julia, hastily; "I think I
am hot ; it is tiring out here. Let us go
home ; I — I want to get back."

Why, Julie, you don't come out enough ;
you are done up directly. There, come along
out into the fields, there's more fresh air there.
I say, did I tell you that we are to go to town
next week ? "

No," said Julia, who shivered at every
sound in the copse, and glanced from side to
side, as if she expected to be seized at any
moment.

But we are, and I don't know but what
I long to be up in London to get away from
Harry Artingale."

To get away ? " said Julia, making an effort
to be composed, and wondering why she had
not told her sister what she had seen.

Yes, I want to get away ; for of course''
she added, archly, " he will have to stay down
here."

She spoke loudly, and all that had been
said and left unsaid appealed very strongly to
the senses of the great fellow in the copse.

Julia need not have felt afraid that he was
about to rise up and seize her ; he remained
perfectly still for a few moments, and then
rolled over upon his back, laughing heartily,
but in a perfectly silent manner, before having
a struggle with himself to drag a short pipe
and a tobacco-pouch out of his pocket.

Filling his pipe quietly, he struck a match
and lit it, placed his hands beneath his head,
and stared straight up through the tender green

leaves at the bare sky, while a robin came
and perched upon a branch close by, and
kept watching the ruffian with his great
round eyes.

This is jolly," he said, in a bass growl ;
'* better than having places of your own, and
being obliged to work."

Then he smoked for a few minutes before
musing once more aloud.

Women ain't much account," he said,
oracularly ; " and the younger and prettier they
are, the worse they are."

There was another interval of smoking.

What a deal a fellow sees by just doing
nothing but hang around. Frank Mallow, eh ?
Ah, he cuts me now. If I was John Berry,
farmer, I'd cut him, that's what I'd do."

Another interval of smoking.

^* Why don't young Serrol " (so he pronounced
it) " go after the school missus now,
I wonder ? Tired, I repose."

Another smoking interval.

Hah, if it's cause he prefers going down
to the ford "

He stopped short.

I tell you what it is ; if I thought "

Another pause, during which Jock Morrison
made his short pipe still shorter by biting offa
piece of the stem and spitting it out.

Shall I tell Tom— shan't I tell Tom ? Tom
don't like me, and tells me to keep myself to
myself. He'd about smash him, that's what
Tom would do, if he snowed, and then he'd
be miserable for ever and ever, amen, as owt
Sammy Warmoth used to say."

Another smoking fit.

She's a good little lass, and the trouble
she was in about her bairn was terrible."

More smoking, and the robin looking
wondering on.

Polly don't like me, but she's a kindhearted
little lass, and has give me many a
hunk of bread and meat unknown to Tom, and I
never see but that she was as square as square."

Another long smoke.

Master Serrol, eh ? Why, of course ! She
must ha snowed him when she lived at
parson's. I'll tell Tom."

More smoking, and the pipe of tobacco
burned out.

'' No, I won't tell Tom," said the big fellow.
If I did he wouldn't believe me, and it would
only make him and Polly miserable too, and

I don't want to do that. I tell you what — if I
see Master Serrol go down there again when
Tom's out of the way I'll pretty well break
his neck."

He uttered a low chuckling laugh as he lay
prone there, catching sight now of the robin,
and chirruping to it as it watched him from
its perch.

Pretty Dick ! " he said. " Going up to
London, are they "? All right ! Anywheres

II do for me, parson. I wonder whether
Serrol and Frank '11 go too."

Jock Morrison did not pretty well break

Cyril neck, for a very few days after Mr.
Paulby had the full management of Lawford
Church again, the family at the rectory being
once more in town.

"It is worse for the boys," said the Rector,
'but it will keep Cyril away from her. I
must get him something to do."

CHAPTER XXIX.

mr. and the misses perry-morton
"at home."

It was a lovely and sculpturesque attitude,
that which was taken up by the " stained-glass
virgins," as James Magnus called them, on the
nio^ht of their first "at home" of the season,
for at every opportunity, when not otherwise
engaged, they joined their hands together,
raised them over their left or right shoulder,
as the case may be, and then drooped a head
against them till an ear just touched the
finger-tips, so that they seemed to be saying
their prayers all on one side and writhing over
the Amiens ,

Claudine and Faustine Perry-Morton were

thorough types of the ladies who have of late
taught society how to indulge in the reverent
worship of the human form. Their hair was
too fearful and wonderful to be described.
The nearest approach possible is to compare it
to the gum mop of some Papuan belle, who
had been chivied during her toilet in the
eucalyptus shade, and, consequently, had only
managed to get the front part done.

Since dress is made so great a feature in a
modern lady's life, no excuse is surely needed
for saying a few words regarding the costume
of these gifted sisters. A desire is felt to do
justice to those robes, but to give a perfect
idea would be extremely difficult.

As it happened, the colour was but one,
and it was that of the familiar household tap-rooted
vegetable botanically named caucus, but
hight the carrot, when seen reposing in sweetness
in a dish.

These dresses were, of course, ingeniously
contrived to keep on the persons they, enfolded,

VOL. II. L

but their aspect was as if a length of many
yards of this ruddy orange saffron material
had been taken, and one end fastened to an
ivory shoulder with a tin^ack of enormous
size, the other end being held under the foot
of some one far away. Parenthetically, let it
be remembered that this is all surmise, as no
doubt the costumes were built by one of the
highest authorities in fashionable garb. But
to resume.

The ends of the dress being thus secured
upon the shoulder and beneath a distant foot,
it seemed that the lady must then have commenced
a slow movement, revolving gently
and winding herself in the web till it formed a
regular — or rather, irregular — spiral bandage
from shoulder to ankle, leavings the long: thin
arms bare, and, after being secured at the feet,
trailing far behind and spreading out like a fan.

Perry-Morton walked to the fireplace, laid
his head sideways against a large blue plate,
which gave him the appearance of a well-fed

saint with an azure halo, closed his eyes like a
vicious critic on varnishing clay, and uttered a
low sigh full of rapture, after which he seemed
to bless his sisters for giving him a sensation
that was perfectly new.

Of the decorations of that suite of rooms it is
needless to speak. Every visitor said they were
perfect. Even James Magnus told Lord Artis
they were not half bad, " only there's too
much suo^o^estion of the kitchen-dresser with
the dinner-plates ranged all a-row."

Harry Artingale thought it a polished
pantechnicon-inferno till the Mallows were
announced, and then it seemed transformed
into a paradise of delight, where every one
walked on air, and the sweet essence of pretty
little Cynthia pervaded all.

For Mr. Perry-Morton and the Misses Perry-morton
were " at home," and the big butler
was pretty well occupied in announcing the
names called to him by the footman, who stood
down amonfy the azaleas with which the hallo



L 2

was half filled, ready to open the door and
rearrange the roll of horsehair matting which
would keep getting out of place.

Lord Artingale and his artist friend arrived
early, Magnus to be button-holed and taken
aside to see his picture hung with a gaslight
and reflector before it, to show it to the best
advantage ; and yet he was not grateful, for
when he returned to Harry Artingale he
growled, as the latter, who was very lighthearted
and happy, said, " like a sore torn " —
cat, of course, understood. .

Perry-Morton was standing with his blue
china halo behind his head, and with a
fleshly poetic look in his eye ; and his sisters
were each posed before a big Benares brown
dish, etherealizing her lambent curls and pallid
face into virgin and martyr beauty, when
the butler announced the Mallows, the girls
looking very natural and charming, and Frank
and Cyril creating quite a sensation with their
sunburnt, swarthy faces and rugged bearing.

THE Peer-MORTONS 'eat HOME. 149

Oh, Claudine," whispered Faustine, " look
at Julia," and her sister uttered a tragic
''Ah!" as she advanced with her brother to
receive the new arrivals.

Certainly Julia looked deadly pale, for as
she descended from the carriage she had
caught sight of a great burly fellow bearing a
lantern, which he ostentatiously held low, so
that her little pale blue satin rosette shoes
should not go astray from the carpeted path,
and the sight of his dark eyes had sent the
blood rushing to her heart. But this pallor
rather added to than took from her beauty,
as, simply dressed in the palest of pale blue
satin, and her throat and arms wreathed with
lustrous pearls, she seemed to stand alone
amidst the throng of strangely grotesque
costumes by which she was surrounded.

The sisters changed their key instanter
upon seeing the effect produced upon their
brother, whose eyes half closed once more ashe
greeted his guests. In fact, he treated the

Hector with such deference, that for a moment
it seemed as if he were going to sink upon his
knees, and in true patriarchal style ask for his
blessing.

But he did not, neither did he raise Julia's
hand to his lips. He merely beamed upon her
rapturously, led her to a seat after the congratulations
of his sisters had had due course,
and then, as a kind of hum went through the
rooms, proceeded to hover over his choice.

A melody in heaven's owen azure," whispered
Perry-Morton. 'julia, your costume is
perfection."

The pallor on poor Julia's cheeks had been
giving place to a vivid blush, but her host's
words and manner once more drove the blood
to her heart, and she sank back ujDon the
lounge, glad to use her fan, for she thoroughly
realized that she was looked upon by all
present as the future mistress of the place.

Magnus, my dear boy," whispered Artis
" have you any charity in your nature ? "

Heaps. Why ? "

Because I want you to go and cut that
fellow out. Julia really is a nice girl."

"Don't be a fool' was the answer, given
with such intensity that Artingale was startled.

Fool, be hanged ! I'm in earnest. Wait a
bit, and we'll go up to her together, and then
I'll be off and leave you. You'd stand no end
of a chance, for Cynthia likes you ever so."

"Don't be an ass, Harry," said Magnus,
you seem to be happy enough. Let the
poor little body be."

"Well, I don't want to quarrel," said Artis
" but if ever a fellow was a fool or an ass I
should think it would be when he turned up his
nose at the chance of winning a little woman
who has not been spoiled by the world."

Oh, she's nice enough," said Magnus,
gruffly. " Are those two brothers going to
marry those stained-glass virgins ? " he continued,
as Cyril joined Frank, who was bending
impressively towards Faustine,

"I wish to heaven they would' said Artium
earnestly. '' Hang the brothers ! What
a thing it is that pretty girls are obliged to
have brothers ! At last ! — I'm off. There's
the telegrams'

The message came alone; a beam of lisrht,
and that little bright beam stretched from
Cynthia Mallow's eye to that of the speaker ;
and the message was, —

^' You dear stupid old goose ^ why dont you
come r

For Artingale had held rather aloof until
the fair young hostesses had withdrawn.

Why didn't you come before, sir ? " said
the lady, looking very severely at her swain.

I was afraid," he said.

What, of me, sir ? "

No, no," he w^hisjDcred, " I've been longing
to get near you, but I dared not. Oh, my
little darling;, how beautiful you look tonight."


'•' For shame, Harry ; now look here, sir, I

will not permit you to be so familiar. The
idea of addressing me in such a strain."

o

There," he sighed, " now you are getting
on stilts again, and we were so happy down at
Lawford."

Yes, but that's country, and this is town.
We are in society now, sir, and we must be
very proper."

There, my beautiful little tyrant," he
whispered, " I am your slave. I won't rebel ;
only reward me sometimes for my patience
with a kindly look."

'^ Well, if you are very good, perhaps I
will," said Cynthia. "But you did not tell
me, Harry, why you were afraid. Ah, that's
right, that tall thin ghost is going to sing, so
we can talk."

In effect, a very cadaverous-looking lady,
with an exceedingly startled air, was led by
Mr. Perry-Morton to the piano, and after he
had screwed his eyes up, glanced round the
room, and held up a white finger to command

silence, the tliia lady, who evidently purposely
lived upon an unwholesome regimen, to keep
herself graceful, fixed her eyes upon one particular
piece of blue china near the corner of
the room, and began to sing.

Now, sir," whispered Cynthia, " you must
not speak loud. Tell me quietly."

May I sit down ? "

If that is enough room for you, sir. Now
0^0 on."

Artino;ale would have thought the eds^e of a
knife room enough, so that he could be near
Cynthia, so he sat down in a very uncomfortable
position, and received such a merry,
mischievous look that he sighed with content.

The fact is — oh, murder ! '^

Hush, Harry ! What is the matter ? "

Would it look rude if I were to cork my
ears with glove-fingers, Cynthy ? "

^' Of course, sir ! For shame ! You have
no soul for music."

Not a bit," he whispered ; " only when

you warble one of those little ballads of yours,
I shut my eyes and wish you were a brook."

Wish I were a what, you foolish boy "? "
whispered Cynthia, looking up at the great
hoi who towered over her.

A brook, my darling, to go on for ever,"
he whispered back so earnestly, that Cynthia
felt a little thrill of pleasure run through her,
and her pretty face became slightly suffused.

Now you are talking nonsense again," she
said. " Oh, I do wish that dreadful romance
would end. Harry, if you speak to me again
like that, I shall send you away. Now, sir,
why were you frightened ? Did I look so
fierce and majestic ? "

'^ No : only more beautiful than ever."

"Harry!"

Fact. Well, I'll tell you : Claudine Perry-morton
was by you."

Well, what of that, sir ? "

"And I felt as if I dared not come near incase
of an accident."

'' An accident, Harry ! What, to the gas ?
Oh fie ! what a silly old joke ; you mean her
hair would set it alight."

No, I don't ; I don't mind red hair. After
yours, it's the prettiest there is."

Don't stoop to compliments, sir. Now tell
me why you were afraid of an accident ? "

Why I feel sure that some time or other
she'll come undone. Look at her dress. I
wouldn't be there for the world."

"Harry!"

There was a very genuine blush as she
looked at him reproachfully ; but her face
softened directly as he whispered in such a
low, earnest tone that it thrilled her once
more —

Forgive me, darling, it was too bad, I
know ; there, we won't talk about ourselves, I
only want to be near you. Let me take you
down to supper."

Would you like to ? "

Yes."

Very much ? ''

Darling ! "

What wonderful emphasis an engaged couple
can put into their words. Evidently that last
noun uttered by the young fellow opened out
a vista of future bliss to Cynthia, who answered
him with a look which was a perfect bond in
its way, engrossed in parchment, sealed, signed,
witnessed, endorsed, and tied with dark green
silk in proper legal style.

I haven't been to dear Julie yet," he said.

What a shame ! Go at once, sir."

No, no ; don't send me away at present."

Well, you must go presently, Harry," she
said, softly ; " I'm so glad you are fond of
Julie."

Bless her ! I love her very much," he said.
She's the dearest, sweetest, sisterly little
body I ever met. I always feel as if I should
like to kiss her when I shake hands, and her
pretty little lips seem to look up to one so
naturally. Cynthy, darling, I often wished I

had a sister, and — and now I'm to have one,
am I not ? "

T don't know — perhaps," she said, looking
down.

I told Magnus one day I wished J had a
sister for his sake. Thank goodness the song's
done. Let's clap our hands, for joy."

They clapped their hands, as did every one
else, but of course not for joy.

I like Mr. Magnus," said Cynthia, thoughtfully.


'' He's the best and truest-hearted fellow in
the world," cried Artingale, enthusiastically.

And if you had had a sister, what then,
sir ? "

I should have made old Magnus marry
her."

Indeed, my lord bashaw ! And suppose
the lady did not approve ? "

But she would approve. No really sensible
girl would refuse Manus, if she came to
thoroughly know him."

There was silence here, during which a very
pale gentleman with a very large aquiline
nose, which seemed to be his feature, the rest
of his face merely representing base or pedestal,
threw his long black hair behind his ears, and
recited a portion of one of Rosette's poems.

"Harry," said Cynthia then, "go and see
Julie now."

Must I ? "

Please. Poor girl, she is so unhappy ; I'm
in great trouble about her."

Poor darling ! " he replied.

You know I told you about our being out
in the woods collecting flowers ? "

"Yes."

And how Julia came upon that great fellow
lying amongst the moss and primroses ? "

Yes ; I wish I had been there ! " and the
young man's teeth gave a grit together. " But
he did not say anything to her ? "

No ; only stared in a way that frightened
her horribly, and it seemed to have such an

effect upon her wtieii she dragged herself
away, that she was quite ill, and it was hours
before I found out what it was."

Poor child ! But she must not think
about it. She may never see him again. '^

But she keeps seeing him, so she says.
He seems to haunt her. She saw him in the
park again a few days ago."

'' But did she see him, or was it fancy ? "

** Oh, no, it was not fancy ; I saw him too.
A great big leering fellow."

Oh, but it must be stopped ; your brothers
and I must thrash him."

"And I half think she saw, or fancied she
saw, him to-night, for she was so bright and
cheerful when we started, and when we came
in she seemed to have turned to stone."

Well, poor child, she will soon have a
manly protector now," he said, rather bitterly,
as he glanced at where Perry-morton was
hovering' over Julia, while the Rector stood
by smiling rigid approval.

Don't talk like that, Harry," said Cynthia,
quietly ; " you hurt me."

"Forgive me," he whispered, "but it makes
me mad to see your people ready to sell her
to that man."

Papa thinks it right, and for the best.
And it is not selling, Harry, for papa is rich."

But surely Julia cannot care for him ? "

She does not say so, but she loathes him,
Harry."

Then why in the name of common sense
does she not strike against it, or fall in love
with some trump of a fellow who would stick
up for her and take her part ? "

I wish she would, Harry. But, there,
oro to her now. She is miserable. Go and
stay w'oh her. Send Mr. Magnus to talk tome.
No, take him with you, and let him chat
to her about his pictures. Here is Mr. Perry-morton
coming to beam on me, Harry."

Yes."

Don't you feel jealous ? "

VOL. II. M

Horribly," he said, with a look that contradicted
his word ; and getting up, he went
to where James Magnus was talking to a
brother artist about their host's last purchase,
an early specimen of Burne Jones, full of wonderful
realistic trees, and a group of figures,
who were evidently all in pain.

'there," he whispered, catching him by the
sleeve, " I want to take you to a lady."

No, no — nonsense. I don't like ladies,
Harry."

Don't be stupid. I want you to come and
chat with Julia Mallow, and take her down to
supper. Why, what's the matter with you ? "

Nothing, nothing at all. There— no. Get
some one else."

'come along, old man. Cynthia sent me.
And I say, talk about your pictures to her.
Poor girl, she's miserable. They are trying to
hook her on to Perry-Morton."

"Why, of course. People say they are
eng^ao^ed."

And I say she isn't. She hates the fellow.
Why, Magnus, old fellow, why not ? "

Why not what ? "

Oh, nothing. Come along."

The artist, after a moment's further hesitation,
allowed himself to be led off, and the rest
of that evening passed very pleasantly to Julia,
who listened eagerly to the quiet, grave conversation
of Lord Artingale's friend.

Like all evenings, this memorable one came
to a close, amidst the shouting of linen, for
the carriage of Mr. this, and my Lord that,
and the clattering of uneasy horses' feet on the
paving fronting the poet's home.

At last the cry arose —

Mr. Mallow's carriage stops the way; " and
the voice of a footman, like that of an archangel
of fashion, came from inside the magnificent
hall, where he stood amidst the flowers,
with a deep-voiced " Coming down."

There was a little craning forward of the
heads of the two rows of servants and idlers

M 2

running from the kerb right up into the great
hall, forming a moving human wall on each
side of the striped Addington canopy put up
for the occasion. The two policemen mildly
suggested something about keeping back, but
the big burly fellow with a lantern stood his
ground, as he had stood it ever since the party
had arrived.

The carriage steps were rattled down, the
host came delicately tripping like a fat faun in
evening costume, and handed Cynthia in. Lord
Artingale being apparently quite content.
Frank and Cyril were by the door waiting
for a cab, there being some talk of calling at
a club.

Why didn't Artingale bring down Julia 1 "
said Frank, scowling at James Magnus.
Perry-Morton ought to have handed her
down."

'' Oh, it's all right," said Cyril, whose face
was flushed with champagne. " Come along."

The brothers were moving off, but they

stayed ; for just then, as Artingale's friend
was handing Julia in, softening his voice involuntarily
as he bade her good night, an
importunate linkraan thrust himself forward,
ostensibly to hold his lantern to make the
carriage steps plainer, and to keep the ladies'
dresses from the wheels.

James Magnus saw it, quick as was the act
in the semi-darkness, for as Julia was on the
last step a great muscular hand grasped her
soft white arm.

She turned sharply, and then uttered a cry
of dread as she saw a brown bearded face close
to hers.

It was the work almost of a moment ; then
she sank back in her place in the carriage ; the
Rector followed ; the steps had been rattled
up, the door closed, the footman shouted
"Home," and the horses sprang forward, hiding
from the frightened girl the struggle taking
place in the little crowd, as James Magnus
seized the great ruffian by the throat.

CHAPTER XXX.

A LITTLE NARRATIVE.

Really, Cynthy, it is not a pleasant
thing to talk to you about."

I insist upon knowing all, sir. Please tell
me, Harry."

That first order would have been obeyed,
Cynthy ; but that last appeal makes me try to
tell you with all my heart."

Now, Harry, once for all, I won't have it,"
said the little maiden, holding up a tiny white
warning finger, which, as they were alone in
the drawing-room. Lord Artingale seized and
kissed. " I want you to be straightforward
and sensible when you talk to me, sir, and if

you do really like me, don't pay me silly,
sickly compliments."

*' I'll never pay you another, Cynthy, as
long as I live," he said, eagerly ; and the lighthearted
girl burst into a merry fit of laughter.
*' Oh, Harry, what a dear, stupid old boy
you are. There, now, that will do — well, only
one more. Now be serious, and tell me, for
really I am in very, very great trouble."

*but would you like me to tell you all
about it ? "

Every word, Harry," said Cynthia, with a
quiet, earnest look, as she laid her little white
hand in his.

For, saving an occasional rebuff by teasing,
Lord Artino'ale's love affairs seemed to be
progressing in the most unromantic fashion.
Cynthia had made a very pretty little confession
to him ; the Eector had been appealed
to, and had become for the moment a little
less rigid ; and Mrs. Mallow had sighed and
then smiled.

'' Well, dear. No : let me hold your hand
like that, I can talk so much better."

Oh, you foolish boy ! "

It was very foolish, no doubt ; but Cynthia
let her hand rest where it was.

Well, it was like this," said Artingale.
*' James Magnus saw that great fellow with
the lantern take hold of Julie's arm."

Then you see now, sir, that it is not
fancy."

Not much fancy about it, certainly," said
the young man, grimly, " unless it's P.E. fancy."

'^ Per. fancy, Harry ; what's that 1 "

*' Oh, nothing," he replied, hastily. " It's a
term they give to fighting. Well, Magnus
says he felt as if he could have killed the
scoundrel."

That's well," said Cynthia, flushing scarlet,
and with her eyes sparkling ; " I like that."

''Do you?"

Oh, yes," she whispered, nestling up to
her companion, and letting him draw her

nearer, till her shiny little head rested against
his breast.

Yes, Harry, I like it — it sounds so brave
and manly of him. Harry, dear, can't you
make James Magnus fall in love with Julie ? "

o

"No."

'' You can't I "

'' No, Cynthy. Shall I tell you a secret ? "

I thought there were to be no secrets
between us, Harry," said the maiden, archly.

Of course not. Well, little one, I think —
no, I'm almost sure — that he has fallen in love
With her already, without any making."

'' Oh, Harry, dear, how delightful. Here, I
must go and tell her."

'not for the world, darling."

And pray why not, sir ? "

'' Because, Cynthy," he said, raising her
little face so that he could gaze seriously into
her bright eyes, " because, dear, I should feel
as if I had been betraying the confidence of
my best friend."

But I should tell her, not you, Harry."

'' Is there any difference ? " he said, quietly.
Isn't it all one now, Cynthy ? "

There was a slight pause, during which
Cynthia's eyes drooped beneath the searching
gaze. Then she raised them, and returned his
look with one so frank and full of loving
trust that the young man's heart gave one
great throb, and the silence seemed likely to
be lasting.

"Did James Magnus tell you he loved
Julie, Harry ? "

No ; but I feel sure he does."

I'm so glad, Harry, '^ said Cynthia, softly ;
"so very, very glad. But now tell me all. I
saw a sort of scuffle, and then we were out of
sight, with poor Julie in a dead faint."

There isn't much to tell you, Cynthy, only
that Magnus seized the scoundrel by the throat
as the carriage dashed off; then there was a
moment's struggle, and the fellow threw him
by some clever wrestling dodge, and he fell

with his bare head a most awful crash upon
the kerbstone."

'' Oh ! "

"That made me feel mad, and I went at
the fellow, but he was off like a shot, dashed
down the road through the gateway ; and as
I ran after him, followed by a lot of people
and two policemen, I saw him cross the road,
go right at the park railings, and he was over
in a moment, and right into the shrubs."

And did you follow ? " said Cynthia,
excitedly.

*' Didn't I ! But I couldn't get over so
quickly as he did, and when I dropped on
the other side I was half hanging by one of
the tails of my coat, for a spike had gone
through it."

"Oh, what fun," laughed Cynthia; "how
droll you must have looked."

I dare say I did," he said, good-humoured
; 'but it gave the rascal time to get a
good start, and when I was free and ran on

with the police and two more men, the
scoundrel had gone goodness knows where."

And you did not catch him, then ? "

''No, he had got clean away, Cynthy, and
after we had been hunting for above an hour
we had to give it up."

"Oh, what a pity."

Yes, wasn't it."

I don't know, though," said Cynthia,
softly ; "if you had caught him he might
have hurt you, too, Harry."

'Til give him leave to," said Artingale, "if
I can only manage to make my mark upon
him."

Oh, Harry, don't look like that ; you
frighten me."

Do I ? — there ; but don't you be alarmed
about me, little one, I can take care of myself,
and I don't mean to rest till I've paid that
fellow my debt."

Paid your debt, Harry ? " said Cynthia,
with a look of alarm.

Yes, little one ; I owe him something for
frightening you, too, down at Lawford ! — if it
is the same man," he added.

Oh, yes, Harry ; I saw his face last night
quite plainly," cried Cynthia, excitedly.

*' Then he has frightened little sister twice
since. I say, Cynthy, I may call her little
sister now ? "

Of course you may ; but go on with
what you are saying. Oh, Harry, dear," she
whispered, " I wish I was as big and brave
as you."

"And," he whispered, " I wish that you
were always just as you are now, so sweet and
bright and loving."

Well, sir, go on."

"That's about all," he said, "only that I
owe my fine fellow for last night's affair as
well."

And about Mr. Magnus ? "

Well, I went back, of course, to Sunflower
Oil-soap."

Went where ? " cried Cynthia, in astonishment.
" Oh, I see, you had made your hands
dirty getting over the railings'

No, no," said Artingale, laughing, '' I
mean I went back to Perry-Morton's. "|

'* Oh, what a shame, to call him such a
name," said Cynthia, solemnly, but with her
eyes sparkling with delight.

'' And there was poor Magnus lying on the
sofa in the dining-room, and a couple of
doctors bandaging his head, after which he
insisted upon being taken back to his chambers,
and that's about all."

But you've been to see him this morning,
Harry ? "

** I sat up with him all night, and he grew
quite delirious, and talked a good deal about
Julia."

"Oh!" and a pause. "And is his hurt
very bad, Harry ? " said Cynthia, looking now
rather white. " Will it kill him ? "

Oh, no," said Artingale, " he was a good

deal hurt, and lost a lot of blood, and — oh,
what an idiot I am ! "
"No, no, Harry. I'm not so silly. Tm
not ofoinor to faint. Hush, here's Julia'

For just then the door opened, and, looking
very pale and wistful, the elder sister came into
the room — smiling, though, as her eyes lit on
the young couple ; and as Artingale jumped
up to greet her, there was something very
loving and sisterly in the way in which she
gazed in his face, and let him lead her to the
couch upon which they had been sitting.

Here she inquired very anxiously after Mr.
Magnus, showing that she knew a good deal
about the previous night's affair ; but Artis
noted her shudder and look of horror
when her assailant was mentioned.

That fellow must be stopped," said the
young man, as he went thoughtfully away.
Poor girl ! she seems thoroughly afraid of
him. Oh, hang it all, it must — it shall be
stopped, or he'll drive the poor child mad."

CHAPTER XXXI.

IN THE DEN.

YoQ had to pass through James Magnus's
studio to get to his sitting-room, and through
the latter to get to his bed-room, and the task
was not an easy one. Lord Artingale knew his
way by heart, but a stranger would have been
puzzled from the moment he entered the lobby
or hall. For the place resembled a Wardour-street
old curiosity shop more than the abode
of a well-known artist. A woman with the
bump of order thoroughly developed would,
if she had been placed in charge, have immediately
invested in a dozen dusters, a turks
and a feather brush, and gone to the
attack, but only to sink down in utter despair.

Chaos seemed to have come back again at
the abode of James Magnus, and modern
nature and art to have joined hands to cover
the aforesaid' chaos with dust. For there was
dust everywhere ; thick, black, sooty dust of
that peculiar kind that affects Fitzroy-square.
It was never removed, save when a picture,
chair, or. " property " was taken from one part
of the place to another, and the dust thus set
floating, floated and settled upon something
else. Certainly there was some kind of order
in the sitting and bed-room, where the artist's
man attended, but it was mostly disorder.

I hate having my things moved," said
Magnus. " When I set to work, I like to be
able to begin at once, and not have to hunt
for everything I want."

I think the place is just perfect," said
Harry Artingale. ^' One can get plenty of
tidiness everywhere else, Jemmy, and I like
coming to the den to be a beast."

So to make matters more comfortable

VOL. II.

Artingale, at first out of fun, later on from
habit, used to carefully place all his cigar
ashes and ends wherever he could find a ledge
on the chimney-pieces, on the tops of upturned
canvases, on the inner parts of their
frames, and balance soda-water and beer or
hock corks upon the properties.

You entered the lobby or hall to be confronted
by dusty busts and casts, and you
went thence into the studio to be confronted
by more dusty busts and casts. There were
life-sized plaster figures of plenty of well-known
antiques mixed up with a heterogeneous
collection of artistic odds and ends. There
were canvases new and old, with charcoal
drawings, sketches, and half-finished paintings,
costumes of all kinds, savage weapons, arms
and armour, easels from the simplest to the
most modern with its screws, and racks and
reflectors, and tubes for gas. Rich pieces of
carpet partially covered the floor. On one
side stood a large raised dais for sitters, and

for non-sitters who wished to sit down there
were quaint old carven chairs.

The value of the contents of that studio
must have been great, for James Magnus
earned a great deal of money, and never
grudged spending it upon what he called
necessaries for his art. Hence it was that
handsome vases and specimens of bronze and
brass work were plentiful, but they were stuck
anywhere, and as often as not held empty or
full paint tubes, or served as supports to great
palettes covered with pigments of every hue.

The sitting-room was almost a repetition
of the studio, but it was thickly carpeted, and
contained more furniture, with easy-chairs, a
dining-table of massive oak, and had a free
and easy, chaotic comfort about it that would
make a bachelor feel quite at home.

The walls bore plenty of pictures, mostly
from the brushes of brother artists, and these,
with the great full folios, formed a most
valuable collection.

N 2

It was here that Harry Artingale had taken
most pains, as a very old friend and constant
companion, to embellish the room with his
cigar ends. Here, too, he had at odd times
shown his own love and reverence for art by
improving some of the antique casts with
whiskers and mustachios. There was a cast
of Venus quite life-size, which, evidently for
decorous reasons, he had dressed in a 
brocade silk dress, from which
she looked naively at a lay figure in Spanish
costume and mantilla ; while close by there
was an Apollo Belvedere, half garbed in
sixteenth-century armour, standing behind a
large pair of jack boots that could not be
put on.

There were, in fact, a hundred playful little
relics of Lord Artingale's diversions when in
idle mood ; one of the latest being the boring
of a hole in a plaster Cly tie's lips, for the
insertion of a cigar, and another the securing
of a long clay pipe and a beer bock in the

hands of a Diana, from which a bow and
arrow had been removed.

You see, he is sech a gent for his larks,"
said Burgess, a nobly bearded, herculean, ungrammatical
being, who looked big and bold
enough to attack a Demean lion, or stride to
an encounter in a Woman amphitheatre, but
who had about as much spirit as a mouse.

Burgess was Magnus's factotum, valet and
houseman ; and an excellent cook. He was
not clever at cleaning, but the artist rather
liked that, especially as he could admirably
make a bed, and in addition was one of the
noblest-looking and most patient models in
London.

But now Burgess was developing a fresh
facet in his many-sided character, namely
that of nurse ; and he had shown a sleeplessness
and watchful care that were beyond
praise.

How is he, my lord ? " he said, as he
opened the door to Artingale, some months

after the occurrences in the last two chapters.
Well, my lord "

Now look here, Burgess ; haven't I told
you a dozen times over to say * sir ' to me
when I'm here ? " *

Yes, sir, but these are serious times, and
I only meant it out of respect."

I know — of course. Burgess ; but isn't
he better ? "

He says he is, sir ; and the doctor — he's
only just this minute gone, sir."

Yes, I know. I saw his brougham."

The doctor says he's better, sir, as he has
for months ; but he do keep so low, and," continued
the man in a despairing tone, " it ain't
no matter what I cook or make up, or try to
tempt him with, he don't seem to pick a
bit."

Poor fellow ! " muttered Artingale, hand-nor
his overcoat and hat to the man.

I did think this morning that he was
coming round, sir, for he has had his colours

and a canvas on the bed, and I had to prop
him up. I don't know, sir, I 1 "

The great Hercules of a fellow's voice
changed, and he turned aside to hide the
weak tears that gathered in his eyes, and
began to trickle slowly down his cheeks,
though they had not far to go before they
were able to hide themselves in his beard.

"Oh, come, come. Burgess," cried Artingale,
who felt touched at this display of affection
on the part of servant towards master, " it
isn't so bad as that'

The man hastily threw the light overcoat
upon a chair, and turned sharply round to catch
the visitor's arm, and gaze earnestly in his eyes.

Do you — do you really think, sir, that
poor master will get well ? "

Yes, yes, of course I do. Burgess. I feel
sure of it, my clear fellow. There, shake
hands, Burgess. 'Pon my soul I like you, I
do indeed."

And him a real true lord ! " thought

Burgess, as he gingerly held out a great hand,
which the other shook.

Get well ? of course he will, if it's only
to help me break that scoundrel's neck, — a
blackguard ! "

^' I only wish I had my will of him, sir,"
cried Baroness, oTindino^ his teeth : " I'd serve
him out."

Would you ? " said Artingale, smiling.
^' What would you do ? "

'^ I'd make him stand for the old man in
the Laocoon sixteen hours a day for students.
He wouldn't want anything worse. But
please go in gently, sir, and don't wake master
if he's asleep."

"All right," was the reply; and the young
man made his way carefully amongst the
artistic lumber, and through the studio into
the dining-room, at one corner of which was
the artist's chamber.

Artingale sighed as he went silently across
the thick carpet, for that room was full of

memories of numberless merry evenings, and
as he paused for a moment beside his friend's
empty chair, a dull sense of pain oppressed
him, and he found himself wondering whether
he was not taking too sanguine a view of his
old companion's state.

Poor old chap ! " he said. ^' How nice
it would be if that could come off. Cynthy
says it shall, and I don't see why it shouldn't.
Let's see ; I'm to give him Cynthy's love and
this rosebud. She said he would be sure to find
out that it was one that Julie had worn. I
wonder whether old Mag does care for her ; he's
such a close old oyster, and never did makeup
to women. Well, for the matter of that,
no more did I till I met Cynthia — not much."

He went gently on to the door in the
corner, and listened, but all was very still,
and he paused for a few minutes in .a state
of hesitation, for which he could not account,
and with one hand raised to open the door.

*' He must be asleep," he said to himself.

'' Poor old boy, only to think of it. One
moment bright and happy and full of life's
and the next moment a helpless mass, with
hardly the strength to move. Well, poor
fellow, Cynthy is right. If he does care for
Julie he has just gone the way to find a
tender spot in her heart'

He took hold of the handle and turned
it, to find that Burgess had been so busy
with a feather and the salad oil flask, that
the door yielded without a sound, and he
glided into the darkened room.

It was handsomely furnished, but its occupant's
profession could be seen at every turn,
for the rich litter of the studio that had
overflowed into the dining-room, had come
in here, and covered walls and filled corners
with artistic trifles.

The room had been built for a smaller
studio, and was lit from the roof, blinds being
contrived so as to draw like a Roman velum
across the glass.

These were partly undrawn now, giving
a weird effect to the half-dark room, across
whose gloom a boldly defined broad bar of
light, full of tiny dancing motes, shone down
upon the artist's bed.

The for was by the head of the couch, and
the figure of its occupant was hidden by the
hangings, as well as by a carefully-arranged
screen covered with fantastic Japanese designs,
but Artingale felt a strange thrill run through
him as he caught sight of the lower portion
of the bed, and took a couple of steps rapidly
forward, but only to stop short the next
moment, as if paralyzed by what he saw.

CHAPTER XXXII.

MAGNUS MAKES CONFESSION.

Not many moments before, Artingale had
wonderingly asked himself whether Magnus
cared for her whom he regarded quite as a
sister, and about whose state he was troubled
in no small degree. The question was answered
now without room for a doubt.

Poor fellow ! It had been a terrible cut he
had received upon his head in the fall that
night. There had been concussion of the
brain, with fever and delirium, and for a longtime
his state had been very serious. Then
came some slight amendment, but only to be
followed, for months, by a depression which
seemed to master the strong man's spirits ;

/

and this, too, in spite of the efforts of the
medical men, constant nursing, and the companionship
of Artingale, given to such an
extent that Cynthia had pouted, and then
thrown her arms round " dear Harry's " neck
and told him she loved him ten thousand
times better for his devotion to his friend.

Artingale had been with Magnus the night
before, but had been kept away that morning,
and it was now close upon five o'clock when
he stood as it were petrified at the sight
which met his eyes.

As has been said, the greater portion of the
chamber was in a state of semi-obscurity ; buta
broad band of light fell direct from the skylight
upon the bed where James Magnus had
been propped up with pillows before a dwarf
easel and canvas, upon which, rapidly dashed
in by his masterly hand, showing in every
line the inspiration that had been thrown
upon the canvas by the artist's mind, was the
work upon which he had been engaged.

Had been engaged, for, palette in one hand,
brush in the other, he had sunk back, his
pallid face, with the hair cut closely now,
giving him in the gloom wherein he lay the
aspect of some portrait by Rembrandt or
Velasquez, the stern lines cut by sickness
softened by a contented smile.

He must have fallen back as he was raising
his hand to continue his work, for the colour-charged
brush in his thin white fingers had
fallen upon the white sheet, making a broad
smear, and as he gazed Artingale thought that
he was dead.

It was but for an instant though, for the
loose open collar of the shirt was rising
and falling gently at each respiration, and
even as the young man went over towards
the bed a low sigh escaped from the invalid's
lips.

Satisfied upon that point, Artingale's eyes
were turned upon the canvas illumined by the
soft white light ; and for the moment, simple

and unfinished as the portrait was, he coukl
almost have fancied that it was Julia s self
gazing up at him with a sweet pensive smile
upon her lips, but with the strange nameless
horror in her appealing eyes.

It was wonderful. He had often watched
with interest the way in which some face
would grow up beneath the pencil of his friend,
but in this case there was the effort of genius
at its best, and he stood there gazing in rapt
admiration at the portrait.

His question was answered, for no one buta
man who loved could so perfectly have
reproduced those features from memory;

I wish Cynthia could see it," he thought ;
and he took another step forward.

That broke the sick man's slumber, for he
started into wakefulness, and made a snatch
at the canvas, to hide it from his friend, two
red spots burning in his pallid cheeks, and a
look of anger flashing from his sunken eyes ;
but Artingale laid a hand upon his arm.

'' Don't hide it, old fellow' he said. '' Why
should you ? "

Magnus looked at him as if in dread and
shame.

Why should you mind ? " continued Artis
" I've never been ashamed to confess
to you. But how wonderfully like."

Magnus still gazed at him in a troubled
way, but he did not speak, and the two men
remained looking into each other's eyes as
Artingale seated himself upon the edge of
the bed.

*' Mag, old fellow," said Artingale at last,
I'm very, very glad."

Why should you be ? " said the other, ina
low, weak voice. *' It is only an empty
dream."

No, no. Nonsense, man. Why, come,
with that idea in your brain you ought to be
up and doing."

What ! " said Magnus, bitterly ; " trying
to make her life unhappy by my mad love ? "

Mad love ! Is it mad to love a beautiful
woman with all your heart, as I'm sure you
do, with that confession before my eyes ? "

Yes, when she is engaged to be married
to another."

*' But that would never be if she knew of
your love."

Harry, my dear boy," said the artist sadly,
'' it comes very easy to you to make sketches
or build castles in the air. You love little
Cynthia, and your love is returned."

Yes ; of course."

'^ And you both think how pleasant it
would be for the sister of both to become the
wife of the friend."

'^ Yes. Well, where's the madness ? "

Magnus shook his head sadly.

'' Why should I tell you ? " he said. ^' I

have studied nature too long not to know

something of women. Do you think I could

see and converse with — with — her without

knowing something of her heart ? "
VOL. n. o

Her heart is untouched. Of that I am
sure," cried Artingale.

I don't know that," said Magnus, sadly ;
but this I do know — that no word. I could
utter, no look I could give, would ever make
it throb." ,

Nonsense, man," said Artingale, merrily.
'• Why, Mag, where's your courage ? Up, lad,
and try. Don't lie there and let that piece of
imitation human being carry her off."

Magnus, who was very weak, lay back
thinking.

Why," continued Artingale, '' you are
bound to succeed. What could be better ?
She was insulted, and you seized the scoundrel
who insulted her, and became seriously injured
in her service. Nothing could be more fortunate."


Have you found out anything more about
that fellow ? " said Magnus, at last.

"No: nothing; and the police have given
it up. I want you to get well and help me."

** Nothing more lias been seen of him,
then ? "

Indeed but there has," said Artingale ; " he
has turned up no less than three times by the
carriage when the girls have been out, and
poor Julia has been frightened almost into
hysterics. Come, you must get well, Mag,
for if ever poor girl wanted a stout protector,
it is Julia Mallow'

Tell me about her engagement."
What for ? To make you worse ? "
"It will not make me worse, Harry. Tell
me. She is engaged to Perry-Morton, is she
not?"

Hang him ! Well, I suppose there is
something of the kind. My respected 
seems to have run mad over the
fellow, and suffers himself to be regularly led
by the nose. But it can't last ; it's impossible.
No sane man could go on long without finding
out what an ass the fellow is, with his vain
conceit and pretensions to art and poetry. It

O 2

is all the Eector's doing, and he is everything ;
poor Mrs. Mallow, as you know, never leaves
her couch."

'' You said the other day that they were
going back into the country."

Yes, and I shall be obliged to go too."

Masons smiled.

'' Well, yes, of course," said Artingale,
quickly, " I want to be near Cynthy. There,
I'm not ashamed ; I am very fond of the little
girl. I must be, or I should never stand those
brothers of hers."

Anything fresh about them ? " said Magnus,
who seemed deeply interested in the
conversation.

Fresh ? Yes — no — only the old game.
Being so near down there, my people hear
everything at Gatley, and though I don't
encourage tattling, I can't help hearing a lot
about my beautiful brothers-in-law, and yours
too if you like."

Don't be foolish. Go on."

Well, 'pon my soul, Mag, they're a pair
of scamps, and once IVe got my little Cynthia,
hang me if I don't cut them. They haven't
the decency to wait till I am their brother, but
are always borrowing money. Sort of blackmail
for letting me court their sister," he added,
bitterly. '' Ton my word, Mag, it would bea
charity to get Julia away as well."

'' It is a great pity," said Magnus, thoughtfully.
" What an anxiety to the poor sick
mother ! "

'• Who is quite an angel of goodness in her
way, Mag, only too ready to look over those
two fellows' faults. Bah ! I haven't patience
with them."

Why does not the Eector get them
away ? "

Get them away ? Well, he has, over andover
again, but they always come back. The
townspeople call them Tie Bad Shilling anil
The Boomerang on that account. The Eector 's
a good old fellow, only obstinate and weak,

and with too big an idea of his sacred prerogative,
which the folks down there won't stand.
Here, get well, Mag, and come down and help
me rout the enemy. "

'' I wish I could," sighed Magnus.

Only wants will, my lad. If you are using
my billiard-table and horses it will keep those
fellows off, but mind they don't rook you."

"I thought you told me that Frank had
made a lot of money at the gold fields ? "

So he gives it out, but I don't believe it.
If he had he wouldn't be borrowing of me and
getting Perry-Morton to do bills for him."

'^ It seems strange."

Strange ! yes. I believe it's all gammon.
Hang that fellow, I don't like him at all.
Of course this is all in confidence, Mag."

Magnus looked up at him with a smile.

My people tell me that he is always going
over to Lewby, close by my place. It's one
of the farms that came to me. Nice jolly
farmer fellow there. Bluff chap, John Berry,

with a pretty little wife fifteen years younger ;
and it seems there was something on between
the lady and Master Frank before he went to
the antipodes."

*■' That's bad," said Magnus, frowning.

'' D n bad," said Artingale ; "but I try

to make it smooth by thinking he is interceding
for his brother."

Interceding for his brother ? What do
you mean ? "

Well, you see, Mrs. Berry was Rue Port-lock,
and Cyril has been paying attentions
to her sister Sage."

Rue ? Sage ? "

Yes ; rum idea. Two such pretty girls.
I call 'em the sweet herbs. Quaint idea of
their father."

And Cyril is paying attentions to one of
them ? "

Yes ; little Sage. She is the Lawford
schoolmistress, and engaged to some one
else."

Humph ! Better than paying attentions
to a married lady, as his brother does."

Oh, bless him, he is not perfect. Master
Cyril has an affair on at the ford just outside
Lawford. There is a pretty wheelwright's
wife — no, hang it, I mean the pretty wife of a
wheelwright there. She used to be Julia's and
Cynthia's maid, you know, and I hear that
Master Cyril has been seen hanging about."

*' They seem to be a nice pair," said
Magnus, gruffly.

Beauties," said Artingale, sharply. " Hang
'em, they shall have it warmly when once I
have got Cynthia away. Of course I have to
swallow it all now. There, you see how badly
you're wanted. It's an unhappy family, and
you would be doing a charitable act in giving
Julia a good husband."

Let her marry Perry-Morton," said Magnus,
changing his position with a weary sigh.

Bah ! you need not mind that, my dear
boy. I feel certain that some fine morning

the Eector will prick Perry-Morton and find
out what a bag of wind he is. Besides, see
what allies you have — Cynthia, your humble
servant, and the lady's heart."

Magnus shook his head sadly.

"But I say you have, and that it is waiting
to beat to any tune you like to teach. Come,
the will has no end to do with the body.
Just swear you will get well and come and
help me put those big brothers in order, and
thrash the big rascal who — No, I say though,
Magnus, 'pon my word, I think you ought to
bless that fellow, for he will frighten poor
little Julie right into your arms."

Whether it was his friend's encouraging
words, and that hopes were raised in the
artist's breast, or whether it was simply the
fact that he was already mending fast, at all
events James Magnus rapidly got better now,
and at the end of another two months he was
about once more, though still weak from his
injury, and likely to be for months,

CHAPTER Xxxii.

THE RECTOR GIVES WAY.

Cyril Mallow was rio^ht. He had three
women to fight upon his side, and he was
not long in bringing their power to bear.
Petted, spoiled son as he was, literally idolized
by the patient invalid, to whom his presence
formed the greater part of the sunshine of her
life, he was not honos in winning; her to his
side.

"It is no light fancy, dear," he said tenderly,
as he sat beside her couch. " She is to me the
woman who will bless my life as you have
blessed my father's."

The sick woman shook her head mournfully.

1 repeat my words," he said : "as you

have blessed my father's life. Well, I have
been restless and foolish, perhaps, but I am
sobered down now, and I mean to marry. I
cannot help it, mamma, and I am quite prepared
to have plenty of opposition to my
proposal, and to be told that I am marrying
beneath me ; all the same, I mean to marry
Sage Portlock, and I ask you to help me."

Mrs. Mallow tried persuasion, pointed out
how directly this would be in opposition to
his father's wishes, and how the Churchwarden
had set his face against it : but all she said
only seemed to strengthen her son's desire,
aud the natural consequence was that very
soon Mrs. Mallow began to talk earnestly to
the Rector, but for quite a month without
any other effect than angering him more
against his son, whom he accused of fighting
against his sisters' prospects.

But when the father began to find that
with patient pertinacity the son was keeping
up his pursuit of Sage, the words of his wife

began to have more effect, and one day,
during a visit to the school, the old gentleman
found himself speaking to Sage with greater
deference, and thoughtfully musing over the
possibility of her becoming his son's wife.

'* It is terrible though," he mused; 'just
as his sisters are about to make brilliant
matches. It is like degrading them."

That night, however, the Eector heard
something about Cyril having been seen a
great deal down by the ford lately, and quick
to take alarm, warned as he had been by
earlier escapade, he began to think more
seriously, and went down to the school a
great deal more.

*' Better that than disgrace," he said; "a
fresh scandal would almost kill her, poor
sweet. Ah, me ! she has much to bear'

He sighed weakly and went to the school
again, setting Sage Portlock in a flutter by
his quiet paternal ways, and he came away at
last avowing that if the object of his son's

affections had been the daiio^hter of a brother
clergyman, he would have been delighted to
find in her the child his son should brine:
to him to take a place within his heart.

Then he began thinking about Lord Artis
and Mr. Perry-Morton, and he grew
angry ; but again he was obliged to say to
himself. It would settle Cyril perhaps. Better
that than a fresh scandal.

He tried to find failings in Sage — seeing in

o o o

her conduct cause of offence — but without
avail, for she gave him no hold whatever, and
he went away thinking of her deeply, and
wondering what was to be the end.

Cyril Mallow smiled as he saw that he was
right, and that it was only a matter of time.
He liked Sage Portlock, and he told himself
that he loved her passionately, and that without
her he should die, and then he entered into
pecuniary calculations.

The old man must leave her at least half
of what he has and every one in Crawford says

lie is well off, so that it will be a pleasant
little bit of revenge to spend the old hunks's
money for the way in which he abused me.
Then there is poor mamma's money. That
must come to me, so that we shall be pretty
well off. Bah ! it will all come right in time.
But I hope Frank is not playing the fool
about little Eue."

After the stern encounter with the Churchwarden,
and the angry words with his father,
Cyril thought it prudent to keep away from
Kilby Farm, and ceased to watch for Sage
as she was going to or leaving school ; but
he rearranged his seat in the rectory pew,
so that he could see her where she sat in
church, became more regular than ever in his
attendance, and sat through his father's
sermons gazing pensively at the young schoolmistress.


People said he was growing pale and thin,
which was a fact easily explicable, for he
smoked from morning to night, and the

healthy brown of the last sea voyage was
fading away consequent upon his indoor life.

If I kick up a row I shall do no good,"
he argued, " so I may as well wait. I could
persuade her to run away with me, but then
we should be confoundedly short of money till
the old folks forgave us, and I'm sick of that
sort of thing. No, I think the injured dodge
is best, for it pays all round."

He was quite right ; and while he shut
himself up with his brother in the room
devoted to their personal use, read Beds Life
in London, and sent communications to one
or two betting men in town whenever he
had the necessary funds at his disposal,
everything was working steadily to the end
he sought to gain.

His quiet acceptance, as it seemed to the
Rector and Portlock, of the commands which
he had received, gave him, in the eyes of the
other interested parties, an injured, martyr-like
air, and, though she did not meet him

now, Sage's thoughts were none the less buss
about him. His every word had impressed
her deeply, and day by day, in spite of her
efforts to be true to her promise, she felt
that she was falling more aud more away.

This was plainly shown in her letters to
Luke Eoss, to whom she wrote weekly, hearing
from him regularly in return. But he noted
the gradual change in her communications.
They grew shorter by degrees ; less full of
chatty little paragraphs about herself and her
daily life. Still she did not fail to send to
him once. It had become a habit — a duty
and while she did this she told herself that
she was making a brave fight against her
weak heart, and hiding the truth from Luke,
little thinking that her notes laid her heart
quite bare to the reader.

For it is a very strange thing how the
feelings of a writer at the time of writing
infuse themselves in the words. A note may
contain only a thousand, and those thousand

words relate certain matters, but from one
writer they will seem to flow with affection,
from another be calm, cool, and simply matter-of-fact.
The sentences shall be almost the
same, the words be very little varied, and
yet, even without endearing expressions, one
letter shall breathe and emanate affection, the
other be friendliness alone.

So, by slow degrees, it was with Sage's
letters to her lover ; and at first, as the idea
stole upon him that she was growing colder,
Luke Koss fought back the cruel thought,
telling himself that he was wrong, and that
hard study was souring his disposition, making
him exacting and strange.

But as time went on he was olio-ed to
realize the truth, and he wrote reproachful
letters, but only tore them up again, to write
others in his old, simple, confiding strain.

He longed to go down and see her more

often, but kept putting it off till she should

express a wish for him to come, hinting at it,
VOL. II. r

and expecting that some such invitation would
be contained in the next letter ; but he hoped
against hope.

Then a week passed without any communication
from Lawford, and Luke packed up a few
things in a bag, and started for his old home,
but only to return directly to his chambers.

*' She is not ill," he said to himself. " If
she had been some one would 'have written
to tell me. I'll wait."

He waited, and at the appointed time —
at the end of another week — a letter came,
very similar to the last, and in which she
said that she would have written as usual,
only that she was very busy.

*' Very busy," said Luke to himself, as he
sat in his dingy room, gazing straight before
him, through the dull window, at the smoky
chimney-pots, but seeing, as in a picture, the
interior of Lawford Girls' School, with its
mistress moving from class to class. '' Very
busy." '~\

He sighed deeply, and went on with his
readings.

From that time Sage's letters came fortnightly,
Luke sending two for one, but he
made no complaint, keeping rigidly to his old
stern determination.

I said I would place myself in a worthy
position to win her," he said. '^ That I will
do. What is more, I will be faithful, come
what may — faithful, even in my belief in
her."

He sat, hot of eye and weary of brain,
thinking whether he ought not to go down
and see why this gradual change was taking
place, but in his stern repression of self he
felt that to go down unexpectedly would belike
mistrusting the woman he hoped to make
his wife, and this he could not bear.

Study — hard study — was Luke Ross's medicine
for a mind diseased, and whenever
doubting thoughts and mistrust came hand
in hand to torture him he forced himself to

P 2

attend to his studies, making, by prodigious
efforts, great advances in the learned treatises
he was striving to master, but only at the
expense of his health.

"It is for Sage," he said, by way of encouragement,
and when doubts became very
strong he held up the shield of his faith.

'* No," he would say aloud, " writing is,
perhaps, irksome to one who has so much
to do, but her heart is mine, and save from
her own lips I would never believe that she
could let it stray."

In his stern determination to master the
profession for which he was reading, Luke
Ross only allowed himself a very rare visit
home ; and though he had felt frequent
urgings of late he fought them down, setting
his teeth, and vowing that he would not go
before the appointed time.

It was a terrible fight when once the dire
attacks of doubt were made, and repeated
from day to day, for during the weeks of the

past month Sage's letters had grown more
irregular still, as if she felt emboldened to be
more careless from that absence of reproach.
But the truth was that every letter from
London was read by Sage with bitter misery
and reproach, and her replies were often so
blotted with tears that they were destroyed
instead of being posted, and it was only those
which escaped the fire which he received.

It only wanted a week of the time he had
settled in his own mind, and in spite of
his efforts to be calm, it was almost more
than he could do to keep on with his task.
A strong feeling was urging him to go down
at once, see Sage, and learn the worst, for a
fortnight had again passed and no letter.

Twenty times over he threw his books aside
and started up to go, but upon each occasion
the indomitable power of will that helped him
to make the great efforts to master his profession
— a power of will that had already stood
him in such good stead during his stay at St.

Chrysostom's — came to his aid, and lie fought

out the miseries of that last week and won. " I

will — not — show — mistrust," he said, sternly,

as if addressing an unseen accuser of Sage ;

I gave — her — my — love — and — I — will —

never — take — it — from — her. If — she — cast
it — away — then — the — act — is — hers — not

-mine."

This, slowly repeated, with a pause between
the words, became, as it were, a formula
impressed in his mind, and it seemed to him
that he had become Sage's advocate, bound
to defend her against unseen accusers.

At last, having no longer any conscientious
reasons for deferring his visit, he hastily packed
his bag and closed up his dreary little chambers,
feeling, as he went out into busy roaring
Fleet-street, that the rest was absolutely
necessary, for his head throbbed and seemed
confused, troubled as it had been with . conflicting
emotions.

It was winter once more, but one of those

mild seasons when balmy winds from the west
tempt the wild flowers into a belief that it is
spring, and sweetly-scented violets make the
air redolent of their homely, heart-appealing
fragrance, when from amongst the dark dead
leaves the tender green of the crinkled primrose
roots could be seen surrounding here and
there a pale sulphur blossom.

It was such a change from the smoke-haunted,
soot-dotted city region of the law,
that fifteen mile coach ride, after the run down
by fast train, that as Luke gazed over the flat
landscape illumined by the mellow glow of
the wintry suu, and noted the silvery bronze
of the young oak stems, and the ruddy birch
and ashes grey, he felt a joyous elasticity of
frame ; his pulses throbbed with pleasure, and
before they reached the town he determined
to alight and follow the mossy lane to the
left, two miles of whose windings would take
him within a hundred yards of Kilby, the
time fitting so well that he knew he should

intercept Sage as she left the school, which
would Dot break up for the holidays until the
following day.

Home again, after many months' absence —
months of stern self-denial ; and as he leaped
down from his seat on the coach, leaving his
portmanteau for delivery at the inn, he felt so
boyish and light-hearted that he began to run
along the lane.

'^ AVhat nonsense!" he said, half aloud.
'' One shuts oneself up in that little hole and
reads and reads till one's brain gets clogged,
and full* of unwholesome fancies. What a
brute I am to let such thoughts creep in, when
I'll wager anything that my darling is longing
to see me back."

He stopped to pick a primrose, then another,
and a violet. Walked rapidly on again, but
paused to select a couple of bramble-leaves
of a most glorious deep green bronze. Then
there was a beautiful privet spray, and another
primrose or two, and by degrees, as he hurried

on with little pauses, a goodly wild bouquet
had been culled and he smiled as he saw in
imagination Sage's delight at his present.

Heaven bless her ! " he said, half aloud,
and, all unpleasant suspicions gone, he walked
on with his eyes half closed, revelling in a
kind of day-dream full of delights, the only
iarrino^ thought beinor that he was coming to
see Sage before paying his duty to his father
at home.

He'll forgive me," he said. ^' He knows
how I love her. Why, what a boy I feel
to-day ! It's this delicious air that has not
been breathed by two million sets of lungs."

There's the farm," he said. " How clean
the windows must be to reflect the setting sun
like that. Different to mine. I wonder how
Mrs. Portlock is, and what the old lady will
say ? "

He hurried on, eager to reach the narrow
cross where the Kilby lane and the one he
was in intersected, and, once there, he meant

to mount the high bank, and wait by the old
mossy oak pollard, watching for Sage's steps,
so as to give her a surprise by throwing the
bouquet of wild flowers at her feet, and

then

And then ? Alas ! how pleasant is that

habit of castle-building in the air. How
brightly the edifices are raised, how quickly,
how dismally they fall ! Luke had planned
all so well, and hurried on along the soft,
mossy border of the lane, heedless of the
winter's dirt, till he reached the cross, turned
sharply, and then stopped short, uttering a
low moan as he reeled against the hedge,
clutching at the thorns for a support.

CHAPTER XXXIV.

AN INVITATION.

Cyril Mallow's plan of playing what he
called a waiting game had the effect he anticipated,
and when he thought that the time
was ripe he sent a very tenderly-worded letter,
full of gentle reproach, to Sage, telling her that
he had fought, no one knew how hard, to
master his feelings, but that it was all in vain ;
that he could not bear his existence there, and
that he was going abroad — anywhere, he said
and he wished it was out of the world.

It was just at a time when the Rector was
in high glee, for there had 'been no parish
troubles for some time. He was beginning
to make the people understand him, he told

the curate, who bowed and said nothings
he did think about his efforts to preserve
peace. Julia and Cynthia were staying
in town with Claud fine and Faustine Perry-morton,
an act of kindness those ladies said,
while their dear brother was forced to be in
Some, where the new art. society had invited
him to be president and inaugurate their proceedings.
Then, although Frank was still at
home, leading a life that, if he had been a poor
man's son, would have been called " loafing,"
there was hope for Cyril, and a chance for
weaning him from this attachment for Sage
Portlock. In fact, jumping at a hint from the
Eector, Lord Artingale had gone to Magnus
and asked his advice, which was freely given,
with a good idea or two how to set about it,
and the result was that he had the pleasure of
writing: down to the "Eector that the Duke of
Berwick had given him an excellent post for
his friend.

"It is only five hundred a year," wrote

Lord Artingale, " but I dare say something
better will come."

The Eector took the letter into Mrs. Mallow's
room after reading it in the grape house,
where he had been busy trimming special
bunches intended for the invalid's use.

He's a good fellow, Artingale, a thoroughly
good fellow," he said. " Sunshine at last for
that unhappy boy."

Our son, Eli," said Mrs. Mallow, reproachfully.
^' If he is unhappy, may not we be to
blame ? "

The Rector's delight was of short duration,
for Cyril's next move was to tell his father
flatly that he had not been consulted, and that
he should decline the post.

'' But you must take it, Cyril," said his
father. " Why, my boy, I have been so full
of hope that since our last quarrel you had
seen the folly of your ways, and were becoming
obedient, and willing to take your place in the
duties of the world."

I have tried," said Cyril, mournfully.

*' You have, I know, my boy," cried the
Eector, *' and conquered."

Conquered ! " said Cyril, tragically. " No,
father, I have obeyed you, and kept away
from Slope Portlock, but I am more than ever
her slave."

He strode out of the room, leaving the
Rector wishing that the Portlocks had never
come to Kilby, and that he had never made
such a py'otegee of Sage, ending by going into
Mrs. Mallow's room to pour out his plaints in
her willing ear.

"What is to be done with the boy?" he
said, dolefully. " I will never get into a
passion with him again. But what is to be
done ? He has some plan in view."

Let me see him," said Mrs. Mallow. " Give
me some latitude, dear, and I will try to bring
him to a better way of thinking."

"Do what you will," said the unhappy
father, " only bring him to his senses. Here

have I been almost on my knees to Artingale
to get him this post, and now h^ says that he
will not have it."

"He would take it if we consented to his
marrying Sage Portlock."

But we can't, my dear. It is impossible,"
cried the Eector.

Mrs. Mallow was silent, and the Eector left
the room.

Five minutes later, in obedience to her
summons, Cyril was at his mother's side, talking
to her in a depressed but very determined
way.

Go back with Frank, Cyril ! " she said,
piteously. '' It would break my heart."

You said that it would break if I were to
die."

Yes," she faltered.

Well, I shall die naturally or unnaturally
if I stop here," he said coldly. " I cannot
bear it any longer. You know how I have
tried."

Mrs. Mallow laid her hand upon her
side.

Then you must fight against all that pain
and suffering for my sake, mamma dear,"
he said, bending over her, and kissing her
tenderly.

'^ But you will take this post, Cyril ? '' she
said, imploringly

"What?" he cried, angrily. "No, I am
troino; back to the other side of the world."

He strode out of the room, and for the
next two or three days there was misery in
the house. Cyril was ill, and kept his bed,
and his fond mother, who believed in him
thoroughly, seeing nothing in his nature buta
little wilfulness, was in agony till, after a
series of Ions; consultations with the Rector,
the latter gave way.

If we do consent, I am sure all will be
well," said Mrs. Mallow, feebly.

If I give way, will he promise to take the
clerkship ? " said the Rector. " Artingale will

never forgive me if it is thrown up. He said
that he had to beg for. it humbly, and that he
would never have done it but for me."

'' I will undertake to sav that he will," said
Mrs. Mallow.

Just then the Rector sniffed.

What is it, dear ? " exclaimed the invalid.

I smell burning," he said.

*' Fire, dear ? " she exclaimed, excitedly, as
she thought of her helpless condition.

No, dear," he said : ^* smoke."

Then there must be fire," she cried, clinging
to his hands.

No, no," he said, trying to soothe her
alarm. " It is tobacco. Surely Cyril would
not smoke up-stairs ? " •

Oh, no, dear ; and he is too ill," said the
fond mother. '' Poor boy ! "

Then it must have been Frank down-stairs,"
said the Rector. " But to go back. Now,
look here, dear, can you guarantee that ? "

I am sure I can."

VOL. II.

But it is such a descent. Think of Lord
Artingale."

"Don't say that, dear' said Mrs. Mallow.
I have thought over it so long. You say
yourself that she is a good, sweet girl, and I
am sure when I saw her I thought so, too.
Well, then, why should pride stand in the
way ? "

Yes, she is very nice," said the Rector,
and I am willing to forget all about birth
and position; but then there are our girls."

'' But if it is to be the winnings of our bov
to the life we wish him to lead ? I'm sure he
loves her very dearly."

Better than himself," said the Rector,
bitterly. • ^

Oh, Eli, do not talk like that," sighed the
invalid. " For my sake and his let pride beset
aside. If Henry Artingale really cares for
Cynthia he will not mind, and as for Mr.
Perry-Morton, I heard when we were in town
that his father made an immense fortune in

some very low class trade. Say yes, and let
us hope that Sage "

'' Same ! " said the Hector. '' Bitter herb !
A pity it is not Rue. Bitter herbs for us to
eat. Height ! nothing but troubles, I suppose.
Then you quite adopt her now ? "

'^ For my boy's sake — yes," said the invalid.
'* Then you do give way ? "

*for the last time — yes."

And you will go and see the Portlocks ? "

'' Yes."

'' And I may tell Cyril this ? "

'' Yes."

God bless you, Eli ! You are always good
to me," sobbed the poor woman ; and the tears
stood in her husband's eyes as he knelt down
and took her in his arms. At that time Mr.
Cyril Mallow, the sick, sat n^ in bed and lit
a fresh cigar before comfortably rearranging
himself for a good skim of the sporting papers.

xlbout a couple of hours after, as th(3
Churchwarden was returning from a round

Q 2

amongst his sheep, he caught sight of the
Rector coming to meet him, when a long
conversation took place, one that ended by the
gate leading into the home close.

Well, parson," said Portlock, as they
parted, " as I said before, Til make no promises
but this — I won't be hard. My niece's
happiness is what I wish to bring about before
I die ; and if she wants to have him, and he
really will steady down and make her a good
husband, why, I suppose it must be. Now I
must go away and think."

They shook hands and parted, the Rector
going thoughtfully home with his hands behind
him, and his stick whisking right and
left, tail • fashion, and up and down, while he
talked to himself about his weakness in giving
way, and wondering what was to be the outcome
of an arrangement that seemed like
breaking faith on his part with Luke Ross.

As he reached the gate he smelt the smoke
of a cigar, and, in spite of his knowledge of

this son's ways, he could not help feeling surprised
at the sight of Cyril coolly walking up
and down, the message he had had from his
mother having apparently effected a miraculous
cure.

•'* Better, Cyril ? " he said, drily,

*' Yes, sir, I'm pretty well all right now,"
was the reply ; and the Rector sighed, and
began to feel a strange sensation of regret

o o o

stealing over him, as once more he asked
himself what was to be the end.

Meanwhile, the Churchwarden had gone onto
the farm, and entered by the kitchen door,
where Mrs. Portlock was busy dividing her
attention between scolding the maids and
mincing meat for sausages.

He gave her a short nod, and went on into
the parlour, treading upon the mats so as to
make no sound, and there finding Sage so
preoccupied that, as she sat with her back
to him, she did not notice her uncle's
entrance.

Pen, ink, and paper were before her, and
on her right an envelope.

This was directed in a plain, clear hand — so
plain that the farmer could easily read it from
where he stood.

It bore the name of Luke Eoss, and she had
prepared the envelope before writing her
letter, for upon the sheet of paper was the
date, and then came the three words, "My
dear Luke."

That was all, and the marks that followed
upon the paper were made by tears.

'^ It is like living a lie," he heard her say,
with a passionate sigh ; and then she started
-ap, for she became aware of her uncle's
presence in the room.

Why, Sage, lass," he said, gently, " do
you always cry over your letters to Luke
Ross ? "

She looked piteously in his face, but said
no word.

Is it because he is so long away, my lass ?

Well, well, we shall have him back these
holidays, and it won't be long."

He was watching her intently as he spoke,
and he saw that not only did she turn pale,
but a spasm as of pain crossed her face.

^' Thou dost not look well, my pet," he said,
gently. " There, there, put the writing away,
and come and sit by me while I have my pipe.
I. don't like my little one to be so dull. Why,
Sage, what's come of all the songs ? You
used to be always singing and making the
house cheery. I'm thinking you work too
hard."

Oh, no, no, uncle," she cried, forcing a
smile.

Then you think too much, child. You
must have more change. Parson didn't come
in here, did he, my lass ? "

No, uncle," she said, starting.

No, I thought he wouldn't ; but he came
to meet me, and he brought a message for
thee, my girl."

For me-ancle ? " she cried, crimsoning to
the parting of her hair.

Aye, he did. He says he has to be out
a deal, and Mrs. Mallow finds it lonesome at
times without her girls ; and he said, as a
favour, would you mind going up and seeing
her, and sitting with her and read in o[ a bit 1 "

Oh, no, uncle," faltered Sage, crimsoning
more deeply, every trace of emotion being
duly noted by him who was probing her to
the quick. *' But would Mrs. Mallow ? "

She paused without finishing her sentence.

Like it ? " he said, finishing the sentence
for her. "To be sure she would, my pet.
What a one I am to deliver a message. It
was her who asked the Eector to bid you
come ; and, as I thought you wouldn't mind,
I just said that you would go."

Oh, uncle, but I — I dare not," cried Sage,
excitedly.

Stuff I Tchah ! Nonsense, my dear.
What's to be afraid of ! They're gentlepeople,

T spoke, but they're only human beings after
all, and you've nothing to be ashamed of, I'm
sure. I told parson you'd go on this afternoon,
as there was no school, and he said I
was not to be uneasy, for some one should see
you home."

Sage's colour came and went as she sat
there trembling, and painfully conscious.

Some one should see her home — some one
should see her home. The words kept repeating
themselves in her ears till she felt
giddy.

What did it all mean ? Why did her
uncle speak to her in this gentle way ? What
more had passed between him and the Rector ?

She gazed in his face at this, and a score
more such questions repeated themselves,
while the answers seemed far away.

Go up to the rectory to-day, uncle ? " she
faltered at last. ** I dare not go."

'' But I wish you to go," he said, decidedly
and Sage's heart gave one great joyful throb.

Had it been left to her lie would have
stayed away, but her uncle wished her to go —
he literally bade her go.

The end of the matter was, that after being
egged on by her aunt to dress herself in the
showiest things she possessed, and having the
good sense, in spite of the feeling of delirious
joy that had taken possession of her, to attire
herself with great simplicity, she walked with
fluttering heart, up to the rectory, where the
Kev. Eli Mallow himself met her at the door
with a paternal em-prescient of manner that
was quite tender in its way, as he drew her
hand through his arm, and led her upstairs to
Mrs. Mallow's room.

CHAPTER XXXV.

WELCOMED.

Sage trembled as lie accompanied the
Ecctor, and in lier agitation everything seemed
unreal and strange. A mist floated before her
eyes, and the room seemed to be sailing round,
till she felt herself led to a chair, and a thin,
soft, cool hand take hers, drawing her forward,
till she bent down, and felt a pair of lips
press her cheek, and sigh gently.

^' I am very glad to see you. Miss Portlock
I think I may call you Sage now."

She answered something that was inaudible
to herself, feeling angry the while at what she
called her awkwardness and confusion, as she
longed for confidence, and the power to be

more at her ease, little thinking; that her timid,
modest behaviour was winning a way for her
rapidly in the poor invalid's heart ; while, in
spite of the pride that interfered somewhat
with the Rector's generosity of feeling, he
could not help thinking that after all, with
such a woman for his wife, a chase for the
better must follow in his son.

By degrees Sage grew more composed,
especially when the Rector patted her gently
on the arm, and asked her to excuse him
while he wrote a letter or two for that day's
post ; "to my daughters in town, my dear,"
he said ; and she was left alone with Mrs.
Mallow, whose careworn but sweetly-pensive
face looked up, smiling tenderly in hers.

It was a delightful afternoon, and Saoje
would have been truly happy if she could have
stood out fully in the sunshine instead of in
the shadow cast across her thoughts by the
remembrance of Luke Ross.

Nothing special was said, but it was quite

patent to the visitor that all objection to Cyril
Mallow's attentions to her had been withdrawn
on either side, and that she had been asked
up there that Mrs. Mallow might welcome her
as her son's future wife.

Sage's heart beat fast, for she owned to it
most fully now. It was wrong. She was
faithless, but she did love Cyril, and giving
herself up to the current of joyous thoughts,
she allowed it to bear her softly on.

The interview grew more dream-like to her
minute by minute as she listened to the
burden of Mrs. Mallow's discourse, and fetched
for her books, pictures, little drawers, and
folios, whose contents the fond mother never
wearied of displaying. Always the same tune,
My sons," and ever something fresh to display.
Cyril's first copybook, his early letters
to her from school, the sketches Frank had
made, a little piece of poetry he had tried to
write and never finished, broken toys, Cyril's
baby shoes, one after the other, an endless

list of little trifles, all of which had to be
carefully returned to their places in the
treasured store.

Then the fond mother poured into the
nowise unwilling ears anecdote after anecdote
of Cyril's goodness, the endless little attentions
he had paid her, and the presents he had
brought again and again — anecdote and present
being of the most ordinary type, but gilded
and burnished by motherly love till they
shone with glowing lustre in Sage's eyes.

It was a delicious time, and there was a soft,
warm glow in her cheeks as she entered so
thoroughly into the mother's feelings, gaining
confidence by degrees, but only to blush with
confusion, and then turn pale with the pang
she felt as Mrs. Mallow drew her down into a
close embrace, and whispered, softly —

'^ Bless you, my child ! I am not surprised
that Cyril should love you with all his
heart."

The tears of both were flowing, and the

aching pain increased as Sage thought that
Luke Eoss also loved her with all his heart.

But there was no time for such thoughts,
for just then the door opened softly, and the
Rector entered, Sage starting up and looking
confused ; but she was set at ease directly,
for he took her tenderly in his arms and kissed
her, saying —

God bless you, my child ! We must have
no half welcome now. I see you have won
poor mamma's heart, so I surrender mine.
There, there, my dear ; don't cry ! You have
a pleasant little mission here."

Sage looked up at him wonderingly.

'' To make three people very happy, my
dear, and that I am sure you are going to do."

And so am I," said Mrs. Mallow, fondly.
Where is Cyril ? Ask him to come to us
now."

I — I don't know," said the Rector, hesitatingly.
'* I did look round, but not seeing
him, I thought he would be here."

He did not know. You did not tell him,"
said Mrs. Mallow.

That Sage would be here ? Oh, no. I
left him to find that out," said the Eector,
playfully. " But I am not sorry, my dear,
for I feel as if we ought to monopolize someone's
attentions ourselves to-day. The next
time she comes we shall be set aside, being
only the old folks."

He smiled at Sage, and in a timid way she
smiled back at him : but the same thought
was in both their breasts, and each tried to
read it through the other's eyes.

The thought was of Luke Ross, which was
agitating them both, for they were thinking
of the day when they would have to face him,
and give account of that which had been done ;
and as this dark shadow loomed up in the
distance, the question arose —

What shall I say ?

Cyril did not put in an appearance that day,
and Mr. and Mrs. Mallow had their visitor

entirely to themselves, with the result that
when it was time for her to go, all thoughts
of pride and differences in caste were gone,
Mrs. Mallow kissing her very affectionately.

I can't come to you, my dear ; but you
will come to me often — very often — promise
me that."

The answer trembled upon Sage's lips. It
was " Yes," but she hardly dared to utter it,
and it was taken from her.

I will say it," said the Rector. " Yes ;
she will come very often. Sage, my child, I
never thought of this, but the future is hidden
from all our eyes. You have been here today
to see us in the character of the woman
our son has chosen for his wife. Heaven's
blessing be on you, my child ; he could not
have made a worthier choice."

Sage placed her hands in his, and once more
he drew her to his breast, and kissed her
broad white forehead.

*•' There," he said cheerily, and with a smile,

VOL. II. R

*' kiss mamma, and then I'll trot down home
with you, for it is too dark for yon to go
alone. I think, mamma, dear, we'll set aside
all form and ceremony from now. What do
you say ? '^

"Oh yes, yes. Let there be no scruples to
keep you away, my dear. Of course," she
added, smiling, "you will come to see this
poor invalid. Come and read to me as often
as you can, for my daughters are beginning to
forsake me a great deal now. Ah I you young
people, you get strange fancies in your heads.
You promise 1 "

She promised, and soon after the Eector
was taking her home, chatting to her pleasantly,
as if there was to be no more constraint;
but all the same he could not help thinking
about him who filled his companion's thoughts,
to the exclusion of Cyril.

How was Luke Eoss to be met ?

And at the same time, the fond mother,
lying upon her couch, had her shadows to

darken the happy thoughts that were brighten-ins:
her life.

Was it just to Sage Portlock to let her
become the wife of such a son as hers ?

She trembled and grew agitated at the
thoughts, which were cleared away as Cyril
suddenly entered the room.

Here, I say," he cried, " what does this
mean ? "

"What does what mean?" said Mrs. Mallow,
smiling affectionately.

"They say clown-stairs that Sage — Miss
Portlock — has been here."

"Yes, my son, and she has just gone back
with your father. Come and sit down by me,
Cyril."

If her words were heard, they were not
attended to, for Cyril darted down the stairs
and out of the house, leaving Mrs. Mallow to
sigh, and, as a despondent fit came on, to
wonder whether they had done right after all.

R 2

CHAPTEE XXXVI.

AT THE TURNING.

Cyril had his run for nothing more than to
accompany his father, whom he met returning
home. But the Eector was in a most genial
frame of mind, and father and son came, back
to the rectory in the highest of spirits, Cyril
bounding up to his mother's room without a
trace of illness left.

"Take the post? That I will, and we'll
forget all about the past," he cried. " I am
glad you like. her. She's the dearest and best
of girls, and I love her. There, I'm not
ashamed to say so. I do love her dearly, and
ten times more for her nice, modest, retiring
ways. Father, I'm going to settle down with

the best of wives, and — oh, hang it all, I wish
I'd known you were going to bring her here.
I say, what a good old fellow you are I "

And plenty more in the same strain, so that
as the question was discussed the hours flew
by, and Mrs. Mallow, weary though she felt
with extra exertion, felt that happy days were
comines once again, and she went at last to her
pillow to dream of the girl who was to bring
peace to her home, and restore her errant boy,
bringing him from a reckless, careless life to
one that was to do honour to them all.

Quite well, thank you ! " said Cyril to
himself, as he leaped out of bed the next
morning, and, after dressing, lit a cigar for
what he called a matutinal whiff, but really
under the impression that he could think
better under its influence.

For there was a o^ood deal to be thought
about that day, and a good deal to be
done.

I shall have to talk pretty seriously to

Master Frank," lie said. [' There must be no
nonsense if Sage is to be my wife. Let's see
if he is up. No, I'll leave it for the present ;
I don't want him to turn nasty if I can help
it."

He knew, from the previous night's conversation,
that the Churchwarden had made no
further objection to his suit, and, under the
circumstances, he felt that the proper course
would be for him to go straight over to Kilby
Farm, and in a frank, manly way thank him,
and talk to him of the future.

'hang it all, though," he cried, pettishly,
I hate the very idea. It makes a fellow
seem such a fooL As^papa! Hang papa. I
don't think I shall go."

He went down to breakfast, and when it
was over the Rector said —

By the way, Cyril, I think I'd walk over
and see Mr Portlock. He would like the
attention, and it is your duty to pay him all
respect,"

Oh, yes ; of course, father," he said,
impatiently.

But don't go down to the school, Cyril,"
said the Rector, rather anxiously.

Oh, no ; of course not," said the son.

We need not mind what people say, but
it is as well not to give them cause for chattering:.
There is nothing; to be ashamed of, but
while Sage has the school we'll let, matters goon
as usual."

But she must not stay there, father."

Certainly not, Cyril. I'll chat the matter
over with Portlock, and see about a fresh
mistress as soon as possible."

*' That's right," said Cyril ; and before his
father could say more he was gone.

Get a new mistress — get a new master,"
muttered the Rector, tapping the table with
his well-pared finger-nails. " Why, it is near
the time when Luke Ross will be back. Tut —
tut — tut ! It is a most unfortunate affair."

It was so near the time that Luke Ross was

already on his way to the London terminus,
and a few more hours would see him at
Lawford.

*' Well, well, JVe nothing to do with that,"
said the Rector, impatiently. *' Sage and he
must settle the matter between them. She
evidently never cared for him, and — tut — tut
tut ! Wei], there, I've done all for the
best."

He went oft' to solace himself with a look at
his flowers, and tried to forget what entanglements
might ensue ; while Cyril, with his
hands in his pockets, smoked cigar after cigar,
as he fidgeted about in his own room, trying
to screw his courage up to the proper point
for a visit to Kilby Farm, for, truth to tell,
the nearer the necessity for an interview with
the Churchwarden, the less he felt disposed to
undertake the task.

There," he said, impatiently, " morning's
a bad time. He's sure to be busy. I'll go
after lunch."

Lunch-time came, and the Eector smilingly
asked him how he got, on with Mr. Portlock.*

Haven't been yet. Going directly after
lunch," he said shortly ; and, to prepare
himself for his task, he paid a good deal of
attention to the sherry decanter, and, after
lunch, smoked a couple more cigars, as he
hesitated and huno^ about.

"AVell, I wall go now," he exclaimed, and,
rousing up his courage, he went across the
fields towards Kilby Farm, but turned off
before he got there, and went strolling along
the lane.

Hang the job," he muttered. " I hate it,
but I must go, though, I suppose."

He turned back, and somehow began thinking
of Luke Eoss, who was speeding lighthearted
enough upon his journey.

Poor cad ! " he said, half aloud. ^* How
wild he will be ! "

Once more he neared the farm, and once
more he hesitated and turned off.

I can't face the old boy alone," he cried,
impatiently. " What does it matter ? He
knows nothing of etiquette. I shall go and
meet Sage and then we can go in together.
It's ail nonsense to be so formal."

He seemed to be quite relieved upon coming
to this determination, and, seating himself
upon a gate, he sat swinging his legs to and
fro, whistling, and consulting the watch he
carried from time to time, till, coming to the
conclusion that it was just about the right
moment for meeting; Sao^e as she left the
school, he leaped down and made off in the
direction of the town.

What a good, obedient son I am," he said,
with a mocking laugh. " Here I promised
that I would not go to the school, and I have
waited like a lamb until she comes out.

'well, the trouble's over, and I've won," he
said, as he walked on. ''' Has the game been
worth the candle ? She's very nice, and the
old folks will come down handsomely, of

course, and I shall have to go up to town to
this precious office. Hang the office ! Well,
it won't be so dull as it is down here."

Little wench is late," he muttered, gazing
at his watch, and yawning. '^ Hang it, I've
smoked too much to-day. Wonder whether
she'll smell my breath. She's a nice little
lassie after all. Ha, ha, ha ! Poor old Luke
Eoss — what a phiz he will pull when he finds
that he has been cut out ! There she comes ! "

He hastened his steps as he caught sight of
Sage, and the next minute he was at her side.

Why, Sage," he said, " did I startle you ? '•'

Yes," she said, trembling. " No, I am
not startled ; " and her blushing confusion
made her look so charming that a good deal of
Cyril Mallow's indifference was swept away.

If I had only known that you were coming
to our place last night ! " he said, tenderly.

Didn't you go away on purpose to avoid
me ? " she said, with a touch of coquetry.

Go away ? For shame ! " he said. " When

I have thought of nothing, dreamed of nothing
but you, Sage, all these long weary days. Oh,
my darling, now the difficulties are all over
what am I to say ? "

In her happiness and excitement there was
a strange mixture of yielding and confusion
in Sage's manner ; she glanced at him proudly,
her heart bounding with joy at his every
word, and then she felt that she was being
maidenly, and tried to be more reserved.

But she could not help his drawing her
hand through his arm, and though she tried to
pull it away from his grasp, he would hold it ;
and at last, ready to cry hysterically — ready
to laugh with joy, she walked on by his side,
feeling happier than she had ever felt before.

For Cyril Mallow knew how to woo, and ashe
lowered his voice to a low, impassioned
tone, he told her of his love, and how he was
I coming straight on with her to the farm.
That he was the happiest of men, and that if
she was cold and distant to him now it would

break his heart. With all this breathed
tenderly in her ears by one she really loved,
it was no wonder that she grew less distant,
and ceased to try and draw her hand away.
Indeed, somehow poor Sage did not in her
agitation seem to know it when a strong, firm
arm was passed round her waist in the narrow
part of the lane, down between the banks,
where no one was likely to see.

All was a delicious dream, full of oblivion
of the past, till in one short moment, as
with head drooping towards Cyril Mallow, she
hung upon his words, her heart throbbing, her
humid eyes soft and liquid with the light of
her young love, she felt turned, as it were,
to stone, and stood with parted lips, staring
at Luke Eoss at the turning as he reeled
against the hesse.

CHAPTER XXXVII.

LUKE Loss's RECEPTION.

It was as if nature sorrowed o'er the scene,
for as the encounter took place the rich, warm
glow of the winter sunset passed away, and
with the black clouds rising in the west came
a chilling wind, and a few scattered drops of
rain pattered amidst the fallen leaves where a
short half-hour before there were the warmth
and suggestions of spring. Now it was winter
bitter, depressing winter — all around, and in
the hearts of those who stood there pale and
gray as the gathering night.

Luke Ross was the first to recover himself
as the giddy sensation passed away. The
blood seemed to surge to his brain, and, with

a cry of rage, lie clashed at Cyril, and seized
him by the throat.

How dare you ! " he cried. " You have
insulted her."

Almost as he spoke his hands dropped to
his side, and he stood motionless, gazing, from
one to the other, at Sage shrinking back, with
her hands covering her face ; and Cyril, who
had now got the better of his surprise, standing
in a menacing attitude, ready for his
assailant.

For the moment, now, Luke seemed stunned;
he could not'realize the truth of what he saw.
Either, he told himself, it was some mistake,
or his eyes deceived him, and he had not
seen Sage Portlock — the woman who had promised
to be his wife — half embraced by Cyril
Mallow, to whom she seemed to cling.

At last he found his power of speech
return, but so unreal did everything seem
that he hardly knew his own voice as he
exclaimed —

Sage, speak to me. What does this
mean ? "

Her hands fell from her face, and she started
violently at the bitter tone of reproach in his
words, gazing wildly in his face, her lips
parting, but no sound coming from them.

Tell me that this is not true — that I was
half blind — that you do not care for him —
Sage, Sage — my darling ! "

There was a piteous appeal in his words that
made her shiver ; and her eyes seemed rivetted
to his, but she did not speak.

Tell me, Sage ! For heaven's sake speak ! "
he cried, in a low, hoarse moan. " Sage —
I cannot bear it. Sage — come to me — my

own."

He held out his hands to her as he spoke,
and took a step towards her, his anguished
face working with the agony of his soul.

But as he gazed yearningly in her eyes with
his, so full of love, forgiveness, and tender
appeal, she covered her face once more with

her hands, and seemed to cower in her abasement
as she shrank away.

Cyril had been too much startled to speak
at first ; and the rude attack had sent a thrill
through his nerves that was not the feelings
experienced by the brave when suddenly moved
to action ; but now he began to recover his
equanimity, and, taking a step in front of
Sage, he made as if to take her hand.

Really," he said, ''^ my good fellow, you

have no right to "

Stop ! " cried Luke, in so fierce a voice
that Cyril remained for the time as if turned
to stone, staring at the speaker, whose whole
manner changed. He looked taller; the
appealing gaze was gone, and his eyes seemed
to flash, while his chest heaved, and his hands
clenched, as he stood before them — no mean
adversary for one who encountered him hand
to hand.

Sage," he cried, and his voice was stern,
fierce, and commanding. " A minute ago I

VOL. II. s

could not believe this. Tell me I was deceived.
No : not now. Come with me to the farm." I

He tried to take one of her hands, but she
shrank, shuddering, away.

You shall speak," he cried.

Oh, come," said Cyril, in a blustering tone,
I'm not going to stand by and listen to this.
Sage, dear, this man has no hold whatever
upon you. Come home with me."

"No hold?" cried Luke, quickly. "Why
but no ; I will not speak to him. Sage,
take my arm. I will not reproach you now.
Come with me."

He caught her wrist, trembling the while
with suppressed passion. But, with a quick
flash of anger, she tore it away.

Cyril," she cried, " protect me from this
man."

Her words seemed to strike Luke Koss like
blows, for he staggered back, his lips parted,
his face ashy gray, and a look of despairing
horror starting, as it were, from every feature ;

but as he saw Cyril Mallow take her haud
when Sage turned from him, Luke's whole
aspect changed, and, with a cry like that of
some infuriated animal, he literally leaped at
Cyril's throat.

Sage shrieked, and then staggered to the
bank, cowering against the hedge, as, recovering
himself from the attack, and driven to
defend himself, Cyril seized his assailant, and
for the next few minutes there was the sound
of hard breathing, muttered ejaculations, the
scuffling noise of feet upon the gravelly road,
and then a heavy fall, Luke Boss Seing seen
in the gathering gloom of the winter's evening
to be above his rival, who lay motionless, with
Luke's knee upon his chest, his hands upon his
throat.

The sight before her nerved Sage to action,
and she tottered to where the two men were.

Luke," she cried ; " Luke, are you mad ?
Oh, help, help, help ! "

'•' Mad ? Am I mad ? " he said, hoarsely, asa

2

Sage's shrieks rang out shrilly on the evening
air. " Yes, I must be mad," he muttered, ashe
rose slowly to his feet, and stood gazing
down at his lost love, who now threw herself
frantically upon her knees, and raised Cyril's
head upon her arm.

And I came back for this," said Luke, in a
husky whisper — " for this ! "

But she did not hear him ; her mind being
taken up with the horror of her position.

I came back for this," he continued, in the
same low, husky tone. '^1 would not believe
it true. Oh, Sage, Sage ! " he groaned aloud,
"it is more than I can bear."

He staggered away along the lane by which
he had come, hatless, his coat torn, his throat
open, and the rain, that had now begun to
fall, beating upon his fevered head. Footsteps
were hurrying towards the spot where he had
encountered her he loved and his rival. But
he heard them not ; he only staggered on — on
into the gathering night, with a vague feeling

that he must go away somewhere to find rest
for his aching brain — anywhere to be away
from her.

One moment he stopped, for he heard Sage's
voice raised in a loud cry ; but it was not
repeated, and with a bitter laugh, he now
tore on at headlong speed, running not from
pursuit, but from sheer desire for action. On
and on, quite heedless of the direction he
took, so that he might get away — onward and
onward through the wind and rain.

CHAPTER Xxxvii

A WILLING INVALID.

The footsteps heard as Luke Ross hurried
away were those of the Churchwarden. He
had been round the farm according to his
custom when his after-dinner pipe was ended,
and then spent his usual amount of time over
scraper and mat, getting rid of the superabundant
earth that always seemed to cling
to his boots.

Shortest day, mother," he said, entering
the long parlour where Mrs. Portlock was
seated watching the fire, with her knitting
upon her knees. '' Be dusk directly. Sage
come in ? "

No, not yet. It is hardly her time," was

the reply. " But you need not fidget about
her."

Wasn't fidgeting about her," said the
Churchwarden, shortly, for the meaning tone
in his wife's words annoyed him. All that
afternoon he had been thinking of Luke Koss,
and it had struck him that it was just upon
the young man's time for paying a visit
home.

^' And then we shall be having him up here,
and he'll learn all about Sage. Hang me if I
think that I ought to have listened to parson
as I did ! "

These thoughts had come to him over andover
again, troubling him more than he cared
to own, for there was something frank and
manly about Luke Eoss that he had always
liked, and in spite of his own uncompromising
refusal to sanction any engagement, he did
not feel happy in his mind about the treatment
the young man had received.

'' Look here, mother," he said, sharply, after

standing at the front door for a few minutes,
watching for Sage's return, " this is your
doing."

"What is my doing?" she replied; 'but
there, for goodness' sake, Joseph, do come in
or stop out. You've done nothing but open
and shut that door."

The Churchwarden shut the front door with
a bang, and strode up to the fire.

I say this is your doing about Sage, and I
don't half like it after all."

There, there, there ! " she cried. " I wish
to goodness you'd mind the farm, and leave
women and their ways alone. What in the
world do you understand about such things ? "

I don't think we've been doing right," he
said ; " and I'm afraid that no good will come
of it."

Stuff and nonsense, dear. Why any one,
with half an eye, could have seen that the
poor girl was fretting her heart out about
young Mallow."

She didn't fret her heart out about Luke
Eoss," said the Churchwarden, sturdily.

About him ! " said Mrs. Portlock, in a
tone of contempt. 'how could she? Cyril
Mallow's worth a dozen of him''

"Proof of the pudding is in the eating,"
said the Churchwarden, kicking at a piece of
blazing coal with his boot toe.

Yes, and a very unpleasant bit of pudding
Mr. Luke Eoss would have been to eat There,
you hold your tongue, and let things go on.
You ought to be very proud that matters have
turned out as they have."

Humph ! Well, I'm not a bit proud," he
replied ; " and I'm very sorry now that I have
let things go on so easily as I have. You
may see Luke Eoss when he comes down, for

wont.

"Oh! I'll see him," she replied. "That's
easily done. Why, Joseph, you ought to be
ashamed to think of them both on the same day.
Our Sage will be his lordship's sister-in-law."

Hang his lordship ! Well, perhaps I am,
wife, and it's because I'm afraid that Luke
Eoss is the better man of the two. Why, look
here, it's getting quite dark, and that girl not
home," he cried, angrily, as he strode towards
the front door.

Do come and sit down," said Mrs. Portlock.
She's all right I tell you. I'll be bound to
say that some one has gone to meet her and
see her home, and, look here, Joseph, don't
be foolish when Mr. Cyril comes, but make
yourself pleasant to him for Sage's sake. She
quite worships him, poor girl."

Hah ! " said the Churchwarden, with a
grim smile upon his lip. " No one ever worshipped
me," and he opened the front door.

Now don't keep letting in the cold wind,
Joseph," cried Mrs. Portlock, and then,
Gracious ! What's that ? "

She heard the faint scream of some one at a
distance, but almost as it reached her ears the
Churchwarden had gone off at a heavy trot

across the home field, in the direction from
whence the sound had come, and he burst
through the gate, to find Sage upon her knees,
nursing Cyril Mallow's bleeding head, as the
sound of steps was heard from the side lane.

** What's this ? Who did this ? " cried the
Churchwarden. '* Is he much hurt ? "

"I I don't know," faltered Sage. "Oh,
uncle, uncle, is he killed ? "

Killed — no," said the Churchwarden, going
down on one knee, " cut — stunned. How was
it— a fall ? "

No, uncle," sobbed Sage, who was now
half beside herself with grief — " they — they
fought."

Who did ? Who has been here ? "

Don't — don't ask me," she sobbed.

'* But I do ask you," cried the Churchwarden,
sharply. *' Why," he cried, struck as
by a flash of inspiration, '' Luke Eoss has comedown
? "

Yes," moaned Sage, with a sigh of misery.

And he did this ? '\

"Yes, uncle."

"Humph! Then he's a plucked un ! "
muttered the Churchwarden, with a low
whistle. "Well, anyhow we've got it over."

"Is — is he dead, Uncle?" whispered Sage,
hoarsely.

Dead — no. I tell you his head's too
thick. AVell, you've done it, young lady.
There, I'll stop with him while you run up
and tell Tom London and Jack Jennie to
bring the little stable door off the hinges.
We must get him up to the farm."

Can't — can't I carry him, uncle ? " said
Sage, naively.

Pish ! what nonsense, girl. I don't think
I could carry him myself. Let's try."

He placed his arms round Cyril's chest,
and raised him into a sitting posture, the act
rousing Cyril from his swoon.

"That's better. How do you feel now?"
cried the Churchwarden. " He'll be able to

walk, and it will do him good. Come, Master
Cyril, how do you feel ? "

"Sick — faint," he replied. 'cowardly
assault on a fellow."

He clung to the Churchwarden, for his head
swam, but the sickness passed off in a few
minutes, and then, leaning heavily upon the
Churchwarden's strong arm, the injured man
walked slowly across the field to where Mrs.
Portlock was standing at the open door. Sage
feeling: sick and faint herself, as she followed
close behind, bearing both Cyril's and Luke
Ross's hats, that of the latter having been
picked up by her without any knowledge of
what she had done.

What is it ? What is the matter ? " cried
Mrs. Portlock.

"Help with thy hands, wife, and let thy
tongue rest," said the Churchwarden, sharply ;
and iu answer to the rebuke, Mrs. Portlock did
help by drawing forward the great couch near
the fire, and sending Sage for some pillows,

after which the latter supported. Cyril, while
Mrs. Portlock, with a good deal of notable
quickness, bathed the cut at the back of the
injured man's head, afterwards cutting away
a little of the hair, and strapping it up with
diachylon in quite a business-like way.

Mother's good as a doctor over a job like
this," said the Churchwarden, cheerily. " So
am I. Here's your physic, squire. Sip that
down."

The medicine was a good glass of brandy
and water, of which Cyril partook heartily ;
and then, in obedience to the tender request
of Sage, he lay down on the pillows, and
half closed his eyes.

Now, then," said the Churchwarden, bluffly,
*' what do you say ? Shall I send over and tell
them at the rectory you've had a tumble and
cracked your crown, or will you have a cup of
tea with us and then walk up ? You don't
want a doctor."

Cyril opened his eyes languidly, and gazed

at the Churchwarden. Then he let them rest
on Mrs. Portlock with a pitiful gaze, finally
turning them upon Sage, who was kneeling by
him holding one hand.

Cyril Mallow's thoughts were that he should
prefer to stay where he was, tended by the
women, and he said, faintly —

'^ Doctor — please."

"Nonsense, man," cried Portlock, bluntly.
Why, where's your heart ? Pluck up a bit.
You don't want a doctor for a bit of a crack
like that."

'' Oh, uncle, you are cruel ! " cried Sage.
'' I am sure he is very much hurt."

Her hand received a tender squeeze in response
to this, and, in spite of her present
misery, Sage felt her heart begin to glow.

Not I, my lass," said the Churchwarden,
in his bluff way. " Perhaps some one else
thinks that you are."

Sage sank lower, and hid her face upon
Cyril's hand.

Let us send one of the lads," said Mrs.
Portlock.

All right' said the Churchwarden, good-humouredly.
" Send word up to the rectory
that Mr. Cyril has had a bit of an accident
mustn't say you've been fighting, eh ? "

Cyril moaned softly, but did not speak.

Say that he has had a bit of an accident,
and that he won't be home for an hour or two.
Would you like him to come round by the
town and tell Vinnicombe to come up ? "

"Oh, yes, yes, uncle," cried Sage, pitifully;
and the messenger was sent off.

The doctor and the Eector arrived almost
together about an hour later, during which
interval Portlock had made himself acquainted
with the circumstances of the struggle.

And was Luke Ross hurt ? " he asked.

I — I think not, uncle," said Sage, colouring
deeply, and then turning pale.

Humph ! Poor fellow ! " said the Churchwarden.
" Sage, my lass, you've behaved very

badly to that young chap, and no good will
come of it, you'll see."

Mr. Vinnicombe did not consider that there
was much the matter, that was evident ; but
he apparently did not care to tell his patient
that this was the case, and consequently it
was arranged that Cyril should stop at the
farm, the best bed-room being appointed to
his use ; and he amended so slowly that he
quite fulfilled a prophecy enunciated by the
Churchwarden.

Strikes me, mother," he said, " that yon
chap will be so unwell that he won't go away
for a fortnight ; and if you let Sage nurse him
he'll stop a month."

Sage, to Cyril's great disgust, was not
allowed to nurse him ; but he stayed for a
month all the same, fate having apparently
arranged that, if Luke Ross's cause was not
hopeless before, it was now wrecked beyond
the slightest chance of behoof saved.

VOL. II.

CHAPTER XXXIX.

fullerton's prophecy.

In a place like Lawford, where every one
knew more of his or her neighbour's affairs

o

than the individual could possibly know for
him or herself, the encounter near Kilby Farm
soon had its place as the chief item of news,
and was dressed and garnished according to
the taste of those who related it.

The principal version was that, stung by a
letter sent by Sage Portlock, Luke Ross had
come down from town and purposely left the
coach at Cross-lane, so that he could waylay
and murder Cyril Mallow with a huge hedge-stake
which was picked up afterwards near
the place.

For a short time the gossips were at fault
for a reason, but they only had to wait
patiently for a while, and then it was known
throughout the place that Cyril Mallow was
engaged to marry Sage — a matter so out of all
reason to the muddled intellect of Humphrey
Bone, the old schoolmaster, that he said* it was
enough to make widow Marly turn in her grave.

Why, he did not explain. It could not
have been from jealous disappointment, for
widow Marly had had a very fair share of
matrimonial life, having married at the early
age of sixteen, and being led twice afterwards
to the hymeneal altar before dying at a very
good old age.

"But it's a wrong thing," he said, at the
King's Head, during a course of potations —
a wrong thing ; and no good will come.
Two sorts, oil and water, and they won't mix.
Tell parson I say so, some of you, if you like.
It's his doing to get the girl's money, and ita
wrong thing."

T 2

In the midst of the many discussions in
Lawford it was asked why Luke Eoss was not
to be prosecuted for assaulting the parson's son.

'^ Nice sort of fellows said Fullerton ; " goes
to learn to be a lawyer, and comes down here
and breaks the law."

All ! it's been a strange bad case," said
Smithson, the tailor.

Anybody seen owt of him since ? " ventured
Wanton, the saddler.

There was silence for a few moments, and
then Tomlinson spoke.

I haven't seen him down," he said. " In
fact, I know he has not been, for old Michael
Ross has been up to see him and hear the
rights of the case."

Yes '? " said two or three, eagerly.

Ah ! he don't say anything about the
rights and wrongs ; only that he doesn't think
Joseph Portlock's girl behaved well to him."

"Oh! 1 don't know," said Fullerton. "What
call had a girl like that to consider herself

bound to a wandering man who couldn't settle
down like a Christian ? I think she did quite
right to give him up."

And marry young Mallow ? "

But they are not married yet, my boy,"
said Fullerton, shaking his head ; " and it's »
my belief that they won't be. He's a flyaway,
wild, scapegrace of a fellow. It'll come to
nought, but I do think young Eoss ought to
be punished same as any other man. Fair
play and no favour for me."

Very good sentiment, Mr. Fullerton," said
Wanton.

Make it your own motto, then, Mr. wanton,"
said Fullerton, proudly. " As I says to
Michael Eoss, when I was talking to him,
yesterday — no, it was the day before yesterday
— no, stop, it was yesterday. ^ I believe
in fair play,' I said.

' So do I, Mr. Fullerton,' he said ; ' but I
don't think my poor boy has got it here.' "

'' Did he say that ? " said Wanton.

Aye, that he did, and pst — here he is ! "

There was a murmur in the inn room where
the principal Lawford tradesmen were assembled,
as old Michael Ross, the tanner, came in,
looking very keen and dark, and as if close
application to his trade had heightened the
colour of his skin.

The old man seemed nervous, and as if he
feared that he would not be counted welcome ;
but he soon found that if he would only
discuss his son's conduct no one would be
looked upon as a more welcome addition to
the weekly meeting.

There was a pause for a few minutes, during
which old Ross gave his orders to the landlord,
and lit his pipe, smoking afterwards in quiet
consciousness that he was being furtively
glanced at by all assembled, and that it was
only with the expectation of hearing more
that they were so quiet of tongue.

Been having a ran up to London, Master
Ross, I hear," said Wanton, the saddler, at last.

'eyes, Master Wanton, yes ; I've had a run
up amongst the soot and smoke," said Michael
Eoss.

And was strange and glad to get back
again, I'll be bound," said Tomlinson, while
Fullerton lay back in his armed Windsor chair,
staring straight up at the ceiling, with the
calm self-satisfaction of a man who knew all
that was being asked.

Well, yes, neighbour," said Michael Ross,
thoughtfully, " I must own that I was glad
to get back again. London's a wearisome
place, and the din and rattle of the streets
is enough to muddle any man's brains. It
was quite a relief to turn down the narrow
lane to my son's chambers, and get out of
the buzz and whirr. My bark mill's nowt
to it''

Saw your son, did you ? " said Wanton.
*' How's he getting on ? "

Oh, he's getting on right enough," said
the old man, proudly. " He's getting on."

Gotten to be a big loyer, eh ? " said Smithson.
"Why, Master Eoss, sir, we shall lev
to get him down here to take up our cases at
County Court."

Nay, nay, nay," said old Eoss, chuckling.
Not yet — not jet There's a deal to learn to
get to be a big loyer ; but my son's working
away hard now he's getting a bit over his
trouble."

"Trouble?" said Fullerton, bringing his
eyes down from the ceiling. "He hasn't got
into trouble, I hope ? "

Nay, nay, only about the bit o' trouble
down here."

"Not going to lev him before the magistrates,
are they. Master Eoss ? " said Wanton.

Magistrates ? What, my son ? " said the
old man, firing up. " Not they. He'd a deal
better right to have some one else before them.
My son never did no wrong."

"But they say he knocked young Cyril
about with a hedges take," said Smithson.

Tcliah ! Lies ! " said the old man, angrily.
1 dare say he hit him. So would I if Vd
been a young man, and come back and found
my young lady stole away like that. Yes, I'd
ha' done the same."

"Hah, yes," said Tomlinson, thoughtfully,
as if he were going back to past times. " It
is hard on a man. But I don't know. Master
Eoss ; if a man's got a bad tooth it's best out,
and it has saved your lad perhaps from many
a sore and aching time in the future."

I'm not going to say anything against
some people we know, and I'm not going to
say anything for them," said the old tanner,
warmly. 'all I do say is, that I don't think
my son has had justice done him down here."

Oh, don't say that, Master Eoss," said
Fullerton, importantly. "Vm sure the way
in which he took our side over the school
appointment was noble. He saw how unjust
it was, and he drew back like a man."

"I don't know — I don't know," said Michael

Eoss, with a dry chuckle. " I'm afraid there
was something more than that at the bottom
of it, though he never owned it to me."

'' Ah, well," said Fullerton ; " it's very
evident that he won't marry Sage Portlock.
Poor girl, it's a sad fall away."

"Yes," said Tomlinson, smoothly, 'rit does

seem strange."

'' Well, for my part," said Wanton, '' I
wonder at Joseph Portlock, though I think
it's his missus as is most to blame. I don't
believe as young Cyril was much hurt."

Not he," chuckled Smithson. '' And there
he's been for the past month, lying on the
sofa, renewed by those two women. I hear the
parson's been every day, and they do say, that
as soon as he o-ets better "

He's better now," said Wanton.

'' Well, then," chuckled Smithson, drawing
one leg up under him upon his chair from
force of habit; "suppose we say much better
they're to be married."

Well, it caps me," said Wanton ; " I can't
understand what it means."

Money," said Fullerton. " Some people
keep lip their grand houses and gardeners and
grape-vines, and get laying traps baited with
pretty girls for young lords and people from
London, and after all are not so well off as
some who pay their twenty or thirty pound
rent and have done with it. Joseph Portlock,
I suppose, will leave all his money to those
two girls some day, and it will be a nice bit.
Pity he didn't keep Miss Rue for the other
boy, and then parson would have been
happy."

When's Frank going back ? " said Smithson,
the tailor, for reasons of his own.

I'd know ; ask him," said Fullerton. " He's
always going over to Lewby, so I hear."

Well," said Wanton, the saddler, " all I can
say is, that if I was John Berry he shouldn't
be always coming over to my house."

"ain't our business," said Fullerton. "I

should say, though, that Sage Portlock '11 have
a nice bit o' money."

*' Ah, there's a many things done in this
life for the sake of money," said Tomlinson,
sententiously.

But it looks bad for a young fellow to belying
about on sofas all day long, coaxed and
petted up by women, just because he has got
a bit of a crack on the head. Doctor said tome,
he said, when I asked him about the cut,
he said, laughing all the while, ' It isn't as
deep as a well, nor as wide as a church
door,' he said ; ' but 'twill serve — 'twill

serve.' "

What did he mean by that ? " said Wanton.

'' I don't know," said Fullerton, sharply.
I think it was some stuff or another that
he'd read in a book. You know what a fellow
he is for giving you bits out of books. Don't
you remember that night at the annual dinner ?
He said, when they were talking about old
Mrs. Hagiey being a bit of a witch — "

Ah, to be sure," said Smithson ; '^ about
the cellar."

"Yes," continued Fullerton ; ''he said, 'I
can call spirits from the vasty deep. Landlord,
go down to the cellar and bring up a
bottle of the best French brandy.' "

Ah, he's a queer fellow, is doctor," said
Wanton. " They won't live down here when
they're married, will they ? "

'' Who ? "

Young Cyril Mallow and Joseph Portlock's
girl."

Oh, dear me, no," said Tomlinson. "Young
Cyril has got a post under government, and it's
settled that Miss Cynthia is to be married to
Lord Artingale, and a house has been taken
for young Cyril up in Kensington."

Hullo, old fox," cried Fullerton.

Yoicks, yoicks, yoicks, gone away," shouted
several, uproariously.

Come, out with it," said Fullerton. " Til
be bound to say you know all about it."

*' Well," said Tomlinson, with the calm
reticence of one who felt himself quite at
home in the matter, " I did hear a little about
it.

From Joseph Portlock's wife, I'll be
bound," said Fullerton. '' She's been at your
place three times lately."

I'm not going to mention anv names,"
said Tomlinson, with a sly, smooth, fat smile,
but I think I may venture to say that there'll
be a wedding somewhere within six months,
and that those who are married will live in
Kensington.'^

Aye, parson knows how to play his cards,"
said Wanton. " I suppose the eldest girl weill
marry that stout gentleman, Perry-Morton.
Parson manages things well. Fancy bagging
Lord Artingale for a son-in-law. Why, all
Gatley belongs to him, and he's an uncommonly
nice fellow too."

Yes, his lordship's all very well ; but as
to young Cyril and Miss Portlock, mark my

words, no good '11 come of it," said Fullerton,
emphatically. " Mark my words : no good '11
come of it."

I should be sorry if it did not turn out
well, and so would my son be, I'm sure," said
the old tanner.

'why? "said Fullerton.

Because Sage Portlock is a nice, superior
sort of girl," said the old man, " and it is
always grievous to see those you like come in
for trouble."

So it is," said Fullerton, " but trouble will
come. Here's two clergyman's sons, who ought
to be the very model of what young men
should be, and has any one of you a good
word to say for them ? "

"Well, for my part," said Smithson, "a
man as can't wear a honestly well-cut pair of
trousers, made by a respectable tradesman, but
must send to London for everything, can't
have much balance in his nature."

Quite right," said Wanton. " Why, when

old Mallow set up the carriage, young Cyril —
no, it was Frank — must go up to London to
buy the harness, and it had to come to me for
repairs in less than a month."

Well, for my part," said Tomlinson, '' I
wish Sage Portlock health and happiness, and
no disrespect to you, Master Ross, for every
girl has a right to choose her own master for
life."

I wish her health and happiness, too,"
said Fullerton, rising, " and I wish she may
get them. Good night, gentlemen; I'm for
home."

Yes, it's time for home," said old Michael
Ross, rising, and saying good night ; and the
two neighbours walked down the street together.

Married, eh ? " said Fullerton, with a sneer.
Well, just as they like ; but mark my words,
Michael Ross, it means trouble."

"I hope not, I hope not," said the old
tanner, sadly, *for I liked Sage Portlock.
She's a very good girl."

*' Bah ! sir ; nonsense ! sir ; women are not
much good as a rule, and she's a very bad
specimen. But, mark my words, sir, trouble,
and misery, and misfortune. It will never bea
happy match."

And the prophet of evil went his way,
leaving old Michael Eoss to stand upon his
own doorstep thinking.

Poor lass, I liked Sage ; and though she
has broken with my poor boy," he said, " she's
not a bad girl at heart. Trouble, and misery.
and misfortune — and all to come upon her
poor weak head. Poor child — poor child.
Luke will about break his heart.

"Trouble, and misery, and misfortune," he
repeated, sadly. " I hope not, from my very
heart, but I'm afraid Stephen Fullerton is
right."

VOL. II. U

BOOK II.— " FORSAKING ALL OTHER."

CHAPTER I.
AFTER A LAPSE.

The Lawford people were disappointed, for
the Rector thought it better, and the Port-locks
made no objection, that the wedding
should be as simple as possible, so there were
no preparations to signify, only such as were
made in a quiet way, and Luke Ross read one
morning in the ' Times ' that Cyril Mallow,
second son of the Rev. Eli Mallow, had
espoused Sage, daughter of the late Elias Port-lock,
Esq., of Selby, and niece of Joseph
Portlock, Esq., the Hall, Kilby, Lawford. He
had a letter afterwards from his father, giving
him fuller information, and saying that Lord

Artingale was at the wedding, and Cyril Mallow's
sisters were the bridesmaids, and that
the young married people went off directly to
Paris. That Frank Mallow had not gone
back to Australia, and nobody knew when he
would go. That Portlock the churchwarden
had been very angry at having Esrfiire put
after his name in the announcements ; that he
was very friendly when he met the tanner in
the market-place, and desired to be kindly
remembered to Luke.

The letter concluded with a hope that Luke
would soon come down, but he was not to
come unless he felt that he did not mind a bit ;
that they had a very pleasant little body for
schoolmistress now, and that Humphrey Bone
seemed just the same as ever, and that was
all at present from Luke's affectionate father,
Michael Ross.

Not quite all at present, for there was a
postscript stating that the Rector was a good
deal in trouble about his eldest girl, who

o

U 2

seemed to be getting in a bad way, but all the

same, both she and her sister were engaged to
be married.

Luke Eoss put the letter away in a drawer
with a sigh, and turned to his reading working
as hard as man could work, for in this
he found his only relief from the troubled
thoughts that oppressed him, while the change
that had taken place iu him in a few months
was almost startling.

As the time went on the Rector, far from
feeling lighter in his burdens now that he had
Cyril comfortably settled down, had two new
sources of trouble : in his son Frank, who had
made the rectory, or the town house that
had been taken and handsomely furnished, his
home. He said that he was going back to
Australia, but not yet. Perhaps he should
take a wife back with him.

The Eector's other trouble was Julia, who
had grown so pale and weak that at last,
partly in obedience to Mr. Perry Morton's

desire, it was settled that Sir Emerson
Liffey should be consulted, and that eminent
and fashionable physician was asked to call.

Sir Emerson did call, and after a honos
visit, as he saw his patient had no complaint
to make, none to describe, he settled that it
was want of tone.

There is a want of heart action, my dear
madam," he said, though there were times
when poor Julia's heart beat at a fearful rate.

But you don't think "

*' Oh, dear me, no ! Oh, BE-ar no ! A
course of tonic medicine, a little alteration in
diet, and a short stay at the seaside will quite
restore us."

'* Do you think Brighton ? " said Mrs .
Mallow.

Excellent," said Sir Emerson ; *' and it
would benefit you as well."

Or Boo;nor ? "

Nothing could be better."

^' Perhaps Hastings ? "

My dear madam, if I lead the choosing of
a place for your daughter's residence for the
present, I should decidedly say Hastings, '^
replied the great physician, rising from the
side table, where he had been writing out a
prescription precisely the same as that which
he had written for hundreds of other young
ladies in his time ; and then, after a very
courtly smile and bow, he left the drawing-room.
The Rector was summoned, and the
next day the family was staying at the
Queen's " Hotel.

There, Julia," cried Cynthia, when they
had been down a few days, " I think this is
delicious, though we might just as well have
stayed at Lawford. I don't know, though ; I
like the seaside, and we shall be as free here
as at home in the dear old woods."

Julia shuddered.

*' Oh, you foolish girl ! There, don't think
of that again. Let's enjoy ourselves while
we can. The Perry-Mortons will be here soon."

Are they coming down ? " said Julia, with
a look of dismay.

Yes. Harry's aversion wrote to papa this
morning, saying that they should be at Hastings
on Saturday, so we've three whole days
clear. What did Sage say in her letter ? "

Very little," replied Julia. " She said
that Cyril had had some little trouble though
at his office."

*' I'm not surprised," said Cynthia, " but I
hope he won't lose that."

Hadn't we better turn back, Cynthia ? "
said her sister, with an uneasy glance round.
"There are no people here."

'^ That's why I came," said Cynthia, merrily.
'^ I like getting away to where we can be free.
Come along ; I'll help you down."

She held out her hand, but Julia did not
take it, and after threading their way amongst
the huge rocks and chris fallen from the cliffs
at the eastern end of the town, they started
onward, keeping close to the water where they

could, but oftener upon the shingle beneath
the towering cliffs, along whose giddy edges
some children were playing, as if safe as the
gulls that softly winged their way above their
heads.

This is just what I like," said Cynthia.
There, I've made one of my feet wet. Never
mind ; sea water does not give colds. Isn't
it a grand bit of coast, Julie ? But, I say,
suppose Bogey was to pop up now from behind
one of those great pieces of rock. Oh, how
stupid I am. Julie : darling sister, don't faint."

"No, no. I am better," exclaimed Julia,
across whose face a spasm of dread had darted.

It was dreadfully silly of me, dear, but
don't you mind what I said. Why, Julie, weare
as safe here as if we were in our own
rooms. Nobody could come down those cliffs,
and I feel sure that you will never see that
creature again. There, be a woman. He
could not tell that we were down here. Now,
could he ? "

^' Cynthia," said Julia, after a few moments'
pause, and as stir spoke she gazed straight out
to sea, *' shall you think me very weak and
foolish if I tell you what I think ? "

'*No, no, of course not," said Cynthia,
glancing furtively about, '* only do try to be
more firm."

I do try," said Julia, with a catching of
the breath, " so hard — so very hard ; but that
man seems to be my fate, and I feel now
that go where I- may, or do what I may, he is
always close at hand watching for me. Even
now I expect to see him waiting by some of
these rocks."

*' Nonsense ! foolish girl," said Cynthia.

And that, strive as I will, he will some
day take me away."

What ! " cried Cynthia, laughing merrily,
*' take you away ! "

Yes, dear," said her sister, solemnly. '' I
feel it. I am sure of it. "

'* But oh, what nonsense, Julie ! You must

not let him. You give way to such thoughts.
How can you be so foolish 1 "

Is it foolish ? I strive against the thoughts
till I feel half mad, but I cannot get rid of
them, and his words are ever ringing in my
ears. Oh, Cynthia, sometimes I feel as if it
is in vain to fight against my fate, and that
I may as well be resigned."

'^ Oh, Julie, Julie, Julie ! " cried the spirited
little maiden. " What am I to do to you —
what am I to say ? Shall I whip you, or scold
you, or have you sent to bed without any
dinner ? It is too dreadful, and you shall
not give way like this. Why, for shame ! I
know somebody who is dying of love for

you."

Don't name him, Cynthy dear ; I detest
the sight of him and his sisters."

*'No, no, I mean dear Harry's friend, Mr.
Magnus."

Poor Mr. Magnus ! " said Julia, dreamily.
I am very glad he is well again."

'but he is not quite well yet, poor dear
man. I think a short stay at Hastings would
do him good," said Cynthia, archly.

*' It was very brave and manly of him todo
what he did," said Julia, sadly. " I can
never thank him enough."

Hush ! walk faster ; let's get beyond those
rocks, Julie," cried her sister, excitedly. *' He's
coming now."

'' Ah ! "

Julia s breath came with a spasm of agony,
and her features seemed rigid.

He hasn't seen us yet," whispered Cynthia,
but with the same excitement in her voice.
Make haste."

They almost ran on now, till they were
obliged to pause for breath.

Don't look round," whispered Cynthia,
whatever you do."

'* And we are farther than ever from the
town ! " moaned Julia, as she clasped her
hands.

'well, what does that matter?" cried
Cynthia. " Why, Julie, how pale you look ! "

Oh, pray come on faster — faster," whispered
Julia.

No, no, poor boy, I've led him dance
enough. He may catch me now. Why,
Julie," she cried, " I declare I've frightened
you. Oh, ray deaf sissy, I did not mean your
Bogey : I meant mine. I wrote and told him
we should be walking along here about four
o'clock, but, of course, I never for a moment
expected he would come."

Poor Julia held one hand across her eyes as
she drew a long breath of relief, and holding
by her sister's arm she walked slowly on, with
her eyes closed, for they were now on a smooth
stretch of sand.

You must not be so ready to take alarm
at nothing, dear. Oh, I say, Julie," Cynthia
added, piteously, " let's turn back, or he won't
see us. No — yes. Hark ! it's all right ; he
has seen us. I can hear his step. Don't

look round, Julie," she whispered, joyously.
Oh, dear, why it's you, Harry. However
did you come down ? "

'' Train, to be sure," cried the young man,
heartily. *' Why, you both look brown already.
So glad to see you looking better, Julia."

Well, it was very nice of you to come,
Harry. But how's poor Mr. Magnus ? "

Heaps better. I persuaded him to comedown
with me for a week. I left him at the
hotel."

'' Oh, you good boy," whispered Cynthia ;
and then they strolled gently on till they
were a long distance from the last houses in
the town. The sun made the calm sea shimmer
like damasked silver, and in the transparent
pools the water was many-tinted with
the reflections from the green and grey and
yellow cliffs ; and, as such people will, both
Cynthia and Harry grew more and more
selfish, taking it as a matter of course that
Julia should o-row fatigued and seat herself

upon one of the rocks that had fallen from
above, to be ground, and beaten, and polished
smooth on one side, while the other was roughened
with the limpets and acorn barnacles
that crusted it like a rugged bark.

In fact, they forgot Julia in the intense
interest of their pursuit as they wandered on,
for Cynthia had to be helped from rock to
rock, as they went out as far as the water
would allow, and she had to make daring
jumps of a few inches over rushing, gurgling
streams of water that ebbed and flowed
amongst the stones. Then the tiny point of
her pretty shoe was always poking itself
inquiringly into crevices, out of which Harry
had to fish red anemones or unusually large
limpets or mussels. Then they had a mania
for gathering enough periwinkles for tea,
Cynthia declaring that she would wriggle
them out with a pin and eat them. But
when about a dozen had been found, the
search was given up for some other pursuit ;

perhaps it was a well-ground oyster shell, all

pearly, or a peculiar bit of seaweed ; and

once, close up under the cliffs where the path

was very narrow, and the sea right in, the

rocks were so rough and the way so awkward

that Harry had to help little Cynthia very

much — so much, that if a boat had been

passing its occupants would have seen two

handsome young faces in extremely close

proximity. But no boat was passing to make

Cynthia turn so scarlet as she did, hence the

marvel ; and they went on in their love-dream

a little longer, thinking what a wonderfully

bright and happy world this was, and how

beautiful sea, sky, rock, and beach had become,

glorified as they were by their young happy

love, when Cynthia suddenly awoke.

Oh, Harry ! " she exclaimed, with the tears
in her eyes, '* how cruel, to be sure. Poor
Julie ! Let's make haste back."

Oh, yes. She'll be rested by now."

I was so thoughtless," half sobbed Cynthia.

*' She is so nervous, and she will be thinking
she sees that dreadful man."

Who is not likely to be here, my darling,"
said Artingale, smiling.

*' No, but let's make haste back," cried.
Cynthia.

Artingale seemed disposed to loiter, but
Cynthia was in earnest, and they hurried back
towards where they had left Julia seated on
a rock, one of the many scattered about.

It was time they did, for Martin gale's words
just uttered were not the words of truth.

CHAPTER 11.

THE STRAY LAMB.

Don't be alarmed, C3rQthia ; these ro cesare
so much alike, and we wandered a good
way."

But I am alarmed, Harry ; I am sure it
was here."

It does look like the place, certainly," he
said ; '^ but there is another heap further on."

"No, no, this must be the stone. I remember
that little pool of clear water, and the
patch of seaweed. Oh, we ought not to have
left her ! "

Artingale could not endorse those words, for
he thought it very pleasant to have been alone
with Cynthia for the past ten minutes — half

VOL. II. i

an hour' — hour — or two hours — he had not the
slightest idea how long it had been ; but the
trouble and dread in her agitated young face
were so marked that he began to throw off the
good-humoured carelessness he felt disposed to
show, and bestirred himself to find the missing
girl.

"Give me your hand, pet," he said, *sand
let's get on to the next pile. 1 am sure we
shall find her there."

"No, no, Harry. The more I look the
more I feel sure it was here we left her."

"Well, perhaps it was, little one," he said,
looking down into the earnest eyes, " and she
has grown tired, and begun to walk back. We
shall find her sitting down waiting for us."

Cynthia gave him her hand, and they ran
for a short distance over the shingle ; but it
was too rough to go far save at a walk, and
then, reaching another of the little wildernesses
of masses of rock, the result of a fall
from the towering cliffs, they searched about

for a few minutes without result, and then
walked a little way down towards the sea, so
as to command a view back towards the
battery and the works at the east end of the
town.

There was a man tramping along with a
shrinking net over his shoulder, an old lady
seated on the shingle under an umbrella, a girl
with a yellow-covered book perched upon a
stone, and about twenty yards out an elderly
gentleman with his trousers tucked up, standing
in the water reading a newspaper ; not a
soul besides on that unfrequented part.

Oh, Harry ! " gasped Cynthia, who was
ready to burst into tears.

Why, you little goose," he said tenderly ;
there's nothing to be afraid of. She isn't
along here, that's certain."

^'And yet you say there's nothing to be
afraid of," half sobbed Cynthia.

"Why, of course not. She hasn't gone
back, or we should see her somewhere. We

X 2

must have passed her. I know she must have
gone close ujd to the cliff, so as to find a shady
place. All along here is so much bigger and
wilder than any one would think."

She must have gone up on the cliff,
Harry."

Well, dear," he said, laughing, " you and
Julie are the nearest approach to little angels
I ever knew, but even you two have no wings,
and I don't think Julie would get up the face
of that cliff without."

'* Oh, pray, Harry, don't talk so, now," she
cried ; "I'm afraid — I don't know what to
think."

"Don't be afraid, little one," he said, encouragingly,
" we'll find her directly."

"Is it possible that any of the cliff has fallen,
and crushed her 1 " said Cynthia, piteously.

He started, but spoke the next moment
decisively.

No. Such a fall would have made a noise
like thunder. Depend upon it she has changed

her place, and we shall find her fast asleep :
unless the Need Ever, or some other dashing
pirate, has landed, and carried her off in his
yacht."

Oh, Harry, you make fun of it all," cried
Cynthia, with a stamp of her little foot, which
crushed a tender, young, and unoffending
mussel ; " and I feel now quite a chill of

horror lest that dreadful man Oh, look,

look, Harry ! Who is that ? "

She grasped his arm convulsively, and
pointed at a part of the cliff", about a couple of
hundred yards farther away from the town,
where a figure could be seen cautiously climbing
from ledge to ledge along the face of the
stones, and in a position where a false step
or a slip must have meant his falling a
battered and bleeding mass upon the shingle
beneath.

There was a fascination in the scene that
held them breathless, and as Cynthia's hand
glided into his, and clung to him convulsively,

ArtiDgale felt the little palm grow wet and
cold.

It was a most daring proceeding, and such
as none but the most reckless would have
attempted ; but the man seemed to be coolly
climbing on, apparently without effort, though
every here and there he had to cling to the
face of the rock, and remain motionless, as if
to gather breath.

By George ! " exclaimed Artingale at last,
as the man climbed nearer and nearer to
where the grass was just visible on the
topmost edge, " he's a plucky fellow, Cynthy.
I wouldn't do that for a good deal."

But, Harry — don't you see — don't you see ? "

Only that he is close to the top, dear.
There, don't look if it makes you giddy. I'll
tell you. He's close up now, and he has got
hold of the grass and stuff. Now he's over the
top edge. He's safe enough. And, yes —
there, you can look up now. He's all right,
and out of sight."

But, Harry, Harry," panted Cynthia,
didn't you see ? It was that man."

"What man ?"

The man who follows poor Julie''

'* By Jove ! " cried Artingale ; and he started
as if to try and follow the man up the cliff.

No, no," cried Cynthia, clinging to him ;
** don't leave me, Harry, don't try to climb that
dreadful cliff ; come and find poor Julie. Oh,
Harry, why did we go away ? "

For answer, Artingale ground his teeth, and
hurried his companion along until they were
in front of the rock on which they had left
Julia seated.

Mass after mass lay singly here ; and nearer
to the cliff huge pieces were piled one upon
the other in confusion just as they had fallen
from time to time on splitting off from the
face of the precipice.

Helping his companion over some of the
rough blocks, and threading his way amongst
others, Artingale uttered a cry of satisfaction.

*' Here 'she is, Cynthy ! " he exclaimed ; and
then he stopped short in alarm, so strange and
haggard did Julia appear.

She was seated upon a piece of rock at the
foot of a large shelly mass, her cheek resting
on the stone, and her hands pressed to her
face .

Julie, dear Julie ! " cried her sister, springing
to her side ; and as Julia heard her voice
she slowly lowered her hands, and displayed a
countenance alternately flushed and deadly
pale, while her eyes looked wild and strange.

Has he gone ? " she whispered, giving a
frightened o-lance round.

Oh, Julie, tell me, has that man been
here — has he dared to speak to you ? " cried
Cynthia, passionately.

Yes ; he came directly you had gone.
He was there, there," she whispered, pointing
towards the cliff. " Take me away : please
take me away."

Her words and looks were those of some

frightened child, and on Artingale taking one
of her hands she clung to him convulsively.

'^ But, Julie dear, tell me," cried Cynthia,
whose face was flushed and angry ; *' tell
me "

"No, no. Not now. Not now. Let us
get back to the hotel. I dare not stay here."

Artingale and Cynthia exchanged glances,
as they led the frightened girl out from amidst
the piled-up rocks into the broad sunshine,
and then slowly along the sandy portions of
the beach, with the result that she gradually
became more calm, but she checked at once
the slightest effort made by her sister to gain
any information. Even when, at a sign from
Cynthia, Artingale drew back, she did not
speak, but turned timidly and waited for him
to come alongside.

"Don't leave me, Harry," she said plaintively
; so he joined them again, and walked
with the sisters right up to the hotel, where
Julia now seemed to have grown more herself ;

but there was that in her countenance which
set Artingale thinking very deeply, and as
soon as he had parted from the sisters, he
went straight to James Magnus, whom he
found in his room seated by the open window,
and gazing out to sea.

CHAPTER III.

PLAYING DETECTIVE.

I SAY, old fellow, I've got some news for
you that ought to make you well in half-an-hour,"
exclaimed Artingale.

What's that ? " said Magnus, eagerly.

That scoundrel who gave you the ugly cut
on the head is down here."

Down here ! " cried Magnus, with his pale
face flushing.

Yes ; and he has seen and insulted Julia
Mallow."

A deadly pallor came over the countenance
of the artist once more, as he rose from his
chair, and caught his friend by the shoulder.

Harry," he said hoarsely, " you found out
my secret when I thought it was hidden deeply
away. You are right ; your news does give
me strength, and I shall live to kill that man."

Well, old fellow, I would rather, for everybody's
sake, that you were not hung ; but I
don't wonder at what you say, for I feel just
now as if I could shove the beggar over the
cliff. But set aside talking, we must act.
What is to be done ? "

Let us see Mr. Mallow at once."

^' Bah ! He would hem and haw, and look
rigid, and say we had better leave the matter
to the police."

Very well, then, in Heaven's name let us
speak to the police."

What about, my dear fellow ? What are
we to say ? . Don't you see that we are helpless.
The man has kept outside the pale of
the law ; and besides, suppose we have him
caught — if we can — think of the unpleasant
expose and how painful it would be to both of

those poor girls. No, we can't do that. It
would be horrible, my dear fellow. Suppose
the scoundrel is trapped, and — I only say
suppose — gets some sharp, unscrupulous lawyer
to defend him. It would be painful in the
extreme."

Magnus began to walk up and down the
room, looking agitated.

What would you do ? " he said at last.

'' Well," said Artingale, after a pause, '' I
feel greatly disposed to take the law in my, or
our, own hands."

^' Why do you say our ? " asked Magnus,
hoarsely.

'^ Because I look upon it as your case as
much as mine. Look here, old fellow, Cynthia
and* I both think you are the man who would
make J julia happy, and if you don't win her
it is your own fault."

And Perry-Morton ? "

'' Hang Perry-Morton ! Confound him fora
contemptible, colourless bit of canvas — or.

no, I ought to say brass, for the fellow has the
impudence of a hundred. A man without a
pretension to art in any way pretending to bea
patron and connoisseur, and, above all, to be
my brother-in-law. Hang the fellow ! I hate
him ; Cynthia hates him ; and we won't have
him at any price. No, dear boy, we want
you, and if you don't go in and win and wear
Julia, why, it is your owen fault."

Magnus turned to the window, and stood
looking out dreamily.

Faint heart never won fair 'lady, Mag,"
cried Artingale, merrily ; " and how you, who
have always been like a Mentor to this
wandering Telemachus, can be such a coward
about Julia, I can't conceive. Not afraid of
the brothers, are you ? "

Pish ! Absurd ! How can she help her
brothers ! "

Well, then, what is it ? "

Magnus turned upon him slowly, and gazed
at him fixedly.

*' Harry' he said, "you love Cynthia ? "
By George ! yes, with all my heart," cried
the young man, enthusiastically.

Yes," said Magnus, " I am sure you do.
Then it should be the easier for you to think
of a love where a man looks up so to the
woman he worships that he would sooner suffer
than cause her a moment's pain, when, knowing
that she does not — that she cannot return

his affection "

Hold hard. Now look here, my dear

Magnus, don-'t let sentiment take the bit in

its teeth and bolt with you, or else we shall

have a smash. Now I say, look here, old man,

why cannot Julia return your love ? "

It is impossible. She is engaged."

Bah ! what has such an engagement to do

with it ? I tell you I believe that poor little

Julia is perfectly heart-whole, and that the

flower of her affection — I say, that's pretty,

isn't it ? — I told you not to let sentiment bolt

with you, and I am talking like a valentine !

But seriously, old fellow, I am sure that Julia
detests Perry-Morton."

'' How can you be sure ? " said Magnus,
gloomily.

Very easily, my cynical old sage. Don't
sisters indulge in confidences, and when one of
the confidential sisters has a young man, as
people in the kitchen call it, doesn't she
confide things to him ? "

Magnus looked at him for a moment or
two excitedly, but a gloom seemed to settle
upon him directly after, and he shook his
head.

No," he said, "it is hopeless ; but all the
same, Harry, we must, as you say, put a stop ^
to this annoyance. What do you propose ? "

"There are two courses open, as Parliamentary
people say."

Yes ; go on. You are so slow ; you
torture me."

Well, not to torture you then, my dear
boy, one course is to get a private detective."

*' No, no ; absurd. I'd sooner employ the

genuine article."



*' The other is to make private detectives of
ourselves, and quietly keep watch and ward
over our treasures — eh ? ' Our treasures ' is
good."

Yes, that seems the wiser plan," said
Magnus, thoughtfully. " But it will be hard
to manage."

Where there's a will there's a way, my
dear boy. You join with me, and we'll
manage it."

You would not speak to Mr. Mallow
first ? "

No, my boy, we must take the matter in
our own hands."

And if wee find this fellow annoying — the
the ladies ? " said Magnus, in a curiously
hesitating way.

Artingale set his teeth hard, and spoke
through them.

"The blackguard's too big to treat like a

VOL II. V

black beetle. But let that rest, and remember
the saying attributed to the celebrated Mrs.
Glasse of cookery fame — a saying, by the way,
that I'm told is not to be found in her book —
let us first catch our hare, which in this case
is a fox, or rather I ought to say a wolf.
We'll decide afterwards how we will cook
him."

Magnus nodded, and walked up and down
the room in a quick, nervous fashion.

"That's right! that's capital," cried Artis
merrily. " I thought my news would
make that sluggish blood of yours begin to
move. By George, there's nothing like a
genuine love to make a man of you."
Or a woman," said Magnus, gloomily.
"Get out! Rubbish ! Come, come, no
retrograde movements : forward's the word.
Now the next thing is for the knight to meet
the lady in whose defence he was wounded.
I'll manage a meeting, or Cynthy will, and if
you don't make good use of your time I'll

never forgive you. We'll speak to the Rector
after you have won a little on poor Julia.
He's a good fellow, and wants his girls to be
happy. But by Jove, Magnus, there's nothing
like a rattling good crack on the head."

'^ Why ? "

Excites sympathy. Young lady finds out
your value. Why, my dear old boy, you look
a hundred pounds better. Here, take your
hat, and let's go and have a ramble. The sea
air and a bit of exercise will beat all the
doctor's tonics."

Magnus said nothing, but taking the cigar
offered to him, he lit up, and the two
young men strolled off together, along by the
sea.

" Show me the place where you left Miss
Mallow," said Magnus at last.

All right," was the reply ; " but wouldn't
it be better if we went up the cliff and walked
along the edge ? I want to see where that
scoundrel came up ; and we might meet him."

Y 2

James Magnus looked intently in his friend's
countenance, and could not help noticing how
hard and fixed the expression had become.

It would not tire you too much ? " he
said.

Oh no," replied Magnus, hastily, '' let us
do as you say."

Artingale noted the flush that came into his
companion's face, and he could see that it was
more due to excitement and returning health
than to fever. And then, saying little but
thinking a great deal of their plans, they
strolled on and on, leaving town and castle
behind, and having the glistening, ever-changing
sea on one side, the undulating
spread of well-wooded hills and valleys in the
Sussex weald upon their left ; but far as eye
could reach no sign of human being.

These cliffs are much higher than I thought
for," said Artingale at last, as he stopped for a
moment to gaze down at the beach. " How
little the people look. See there, Mag, those

stones lying below, you would not think they
were as high as you ? Some of them weigh
tons."

Was it on one of those you left Miss
Mallow seated ? " said Magnus, eagerly.

'' Oh no, quite half a mile farther on, more
or less. I don't know, though, seashore distances
are deceitful. That was the pile, I
think," he continued, pointing, ** there, below
where you see that dark streak on the face of
the cliff."

'* I see," said Magnus. '' Come along."

All right, but don't walk so close to the
edge. You know, of course, that a false step
means death."

Yes, 1 suppose so," replied Magnus, going
close to where the weathered cliff suddenly
ceased and there was a perpendicular fall to
the rough stones beneath. *' It looks an awful
depth," he continued, gazing down as if
fascinated.

Awful ! " cried Artingale, " but hans it

all, Mag, come away. You give a fellow the
creeps. You are weak yet ; suppose you turn
giddy."

''No fear," said Magnus, quietly; "but do
you know, Harry, whenever I look over from
a height I quite realize how it is that some
people end their wretched lives by jumping
down. There always seems to be a something
drawing you."

Yes, I dare say," cried Artingale, with a
shudder, " but if we are to play amateur
detectives here goes to begin. Now then,
young fellow, move on. It's again the law to
jump off these here places."

He spoke laughingly, and in supposed imitation
of a constable, as he took his friend by
the wrist, and pulled him away from the giddy
edo-e of the cliff. But the next moment he
was serious.

Why, you wretched old humbug," he cried,
'' what are you talking about ? I've a good
mind to go back."

No, no, let's go on," said Magnus smiling,
I was only speaking scientifically."

'•' Indeed," said Artingale, gruffly ; " then
don't talk scientifically any more."

They walked on for some little distance in
silence, Artingale keeping on the dangerous
side, as if he doubted his friend's strength
of mind, and looking down from time to time
for the spot where they had found Julia, and
the head of the cliff where Jock Morrison had
made his ascent.

What should we do if we met the fellow ? "
said Magnus suddenly.

'' I don't know quite," said Artingale,
shortly. " Let's find him first. Here, look
here, Magnus, those are the stones ! No, no,
those — the grey blocks ; and that is where the
blackguard got up. By George, however did
he manage it ? The place is enough to make
one shudder— Eh ? What ? "

Magnus had laid his hand upon his friend's
shoulder, and was pointing to where, about

fifty yards away, a figure was lying, apparently
asleep on the short turf, not ten yards from
the edge of the cliff' ; and in an instant Artis
had sprung forward, recognizing as he did
the man of whom they were in search.

CHAPTER IV.

LET SLEEPING DOGS LIE.

The two young men had no thought of the
consequences that might ensue, as they hurried
over the short elastic turf towards where,
almost a giant among his kind, Jock Morrison
lay prone upon his broad back, his powerful
arms crossed upon his chest, and his battered
old soft felt hat drawn over his face to shade
it from the sun — rather a work of supererogation,
for the god of day would have had to
work hard to tan it of a richer brown.

Artingale was first, but Marinus was close
behind, and as they saw the man before them
who had caused so much annoyance to, and
so insulted those they loved, the feeling of

indignation in their breasts bubbled up rapidly,
and overflowed in hot passion before which
that better part of valour known as discretion
was swept away. Artingale looked upon
the great fellow as something to be soundly
thrashed, but Magnus, in spite of his weakness,
seemed as if his rage had regularly
mastered him. He saw in those brief instants,
degrading as was the idea, a rival as well as
an enemy, and panting and excited he strove
to be there first, so as to seize the fellow by
the throat, his weakness and suffering from
his late illness being forgotten in the one stern
desire to grapple with this man, and look at
him face to face.

But Artingale was there first, and shouted
to the fellow to get up, but without eliciting
any reply.

Do you hear ? Get up ! " cried Artingale.

Still the man did not stir, but Magnus noted
a slight motion of the hairs of his thick beard,
as if his lips had twitched slightly. In other

respects he was motionless, his arms folded
across the deep chest and the cap over his face.

He's not asleep, he's shamming," cried
Artingale angrily ; and bending down he
snatched the hat from the fellow's face and
sent it skimming over the cliff, revealing a
pair of fierce dark eyes glaring at him like
those of some wild beast.

'* Now then, young gentlemen ! what's the
matter ? " came now in a deep voice like a
growl.

'* You scoundrel ! " began Magnus, but he
had over-rated his strength. His illness had
told upon him terribly, and he could neither
speak, move, nor act, but pale and haggard
stood there holding his hand pressed upon his
breast.

Who are you calling names ? " said the
fellow fiercely.

r " Leave him to me," cried Artingale. " I'll
talk to him."

Oh, two of you, eh ? " exclaimed Jack ;

*' two of you to a man as is clown. Well, as
I said before, and I sav assail, what's the
matter ? "

Look here, you dog ! ' cried Artingale,
planting his foot upon the man's broad chest,
but without eliciting a movement, " I know
everything about you, and where you come
from."

"Oh, do you?" said the fellow with a
chuckle. "And so do I know you. You're
^ game preserver from Lincolnshire."

Never mind who or what I am," cried
Artinofale, who felt in his excitement as if he
had never spoken worse in his life ; " but just
you listen to me, you scoundrel. I know how
you have followed and insulted those two
young ladies."

What two young ladies ? I don't know
anything about two young ladies."

I know that you have watched for their
coming, and, knowing that they were unprotected,
you have tried to alarm them into

giving you money, I suppose, and so far you
have escaped the police."

*' Ho ! " said the fellow, making Artingale's
foot rise and fall, as he indulged in a rumbling
chuckle ; " it's a police case, then, after all ?
Lawford magistrates ? "

''No, not now," cried Artingale, angrily.
Keep back, Magnus, I'll manage him," he
cried; "you're not fit. I say, it is not a
police case now."

Oh ! " growled the fellow, laughing defiantly,
" what may it be, then ? "

'• A thrashing, you dog, for if ever there
was a time when a gentleman might dirty his
hands by touching a blackguard it is now,"

Ho ! it's a feathering is it, your lord
slip ! '^

Yes," cried Artingale, '' it's a thrashing
now, you great hulking brute ; and after that,
if ever you dare approach those ladies again — -"
if ever you speak to them, or look at them, or
annoy them, directly or indirectly, either here

or down at home, I'll half kill you, and hand
you over afterwards to the police."

Ho, you will, will you 1 " said the fellow,
mockingly.

And I — I " cried Magnus, bending

down and approaching his pale, passion-distorted
face to that of the great robust scoundrel
at his feet.

Yes, I see there's two," growled the fellow.
And what '11 you do ? "

'* /'// shoot you like a dog ! "

There was something horrible in the intensity
of hatred and passion contained in
the low, hissing voice in which these few
words were uttered ; and as he lay there and
heard them the great ruffian's brown face
became of a dirty grey. But the look of dread
was gone on the instant, and his chest heaved
as he indulged in a mocking burst of laughter.

All right," he said ; " fire away, and if
you do kill me, I'll come when I'm a ghost
and see you hung. There, be off both of you.

This is free land. This isn't Lawford, and
I haven't been taking any of your lordship's
rabbits this time."

What are you doing here ? " said Artingale.

Doing here ! " said Jock, musingly ; " why
don't you know I'm a Lawford man ? "

Yes ; I know that," cried Artingale.

Well, my parson's down here ; I miss him
when he comes away."

Get up, you scoundrel ! " cried Artingale,
throwing off the brown velvet coat he was
wearing, and taking off his watch and chain.

'' Not I," growled the fellow. " There's lots
o' room for you to pass, man, and 'taint your
path. That's the gainst road back."

Get up ! " roared Artingale, rolling up his
sleeves over his white arms. " Do you hear ? "

Oh, ah ! I can hear," growled the fellow.

Get up, then."

Not I. It's comfortable here."

You cowardly ruffian, get up ! " roared
Artingale.

Nay, it's not me as is the coward," said
Jock, coolly. " You're two to one. Besides,
I don't want to hurt your lordship."

Get up ! " roared Artingale again, but
Jock did not move, only lay there gazing
mockingly in his face, making the young man's
blood seem to seethe with rage.

'' Get up ! " he roared once more.

Went ! "

As the word left the ruffian's lips, Artis
passion knew no bounds, and before his
companion realized what he was about to do,
he had given Jock Morrison a tremendous
kick in the ribs.

The effect was instantaneous.

With a roar like that of an angry bull,
the fellow scrambled to his feet, and as
Magnus sprang forward to seize him, he
struck the artist full in the chest, sending
him staggering back to fall heavily, kor.'^ de
combat, for he was as weak almost as a
child.

It was the work of moments, for even ashe
struck Magnus he turned upon Artingale,
receiving two heavy, well-directed blows, dealt
in good scientific style right in the jaw and
cheek, but making no more of them than if
they had been slaps from the open hand of
a boy, as he caught the young man in a
tremendous grip like that of a wrestler, and
swayed and struggled with his adversary to
and fro, roused now to a pitch of rage that
was murderous.

Artingale knew it. He read it in the fierce
eyes so close to his, as he felt himself crushed
against the great fellow's chest. He read it
in the grinding teeth, and felt it in the hot
breath that came full in his face, and he put
forth all his strength and all the cultured
activity gained in lessons of the best athletic
school. But it was all in vain, for he felt as
helpless as a boy in the giant's grip.

It was but the work of moments ; a few
struggles here and there, and the knowledge

VOL. II. z

forced upon him of the scoundrel's murderous
aim before Artingale felt himself swung from
his feet as they neared the cliff, and then, in
spite of his manhood, he felt his blood turn
cold.

He roused himself though for a supreme
effort, and clutching his adversary with all his
might, he strove to recover his foot-hold.

But no — he was mastered. He could do
nothing but hold on with all his might, as he
mentally swore that Jock Morrison should
share his fate.

Vain oath, vain effort ! There was a swing,
a jerk, and what seemed to be a paralyzing
blow upon his muscles, as he was forced away
from his hold, and the next instant he was
falling headlong from the cliff-edge into the
void beneath.

END OF VOL. n.

3 0112 045832463

fi'^.^Hf''

■.9

«. a Hi

OF THE

UN Diversity

or ILLINOIS



F35S€
V.3

ELI'S CHILDREN

VOL. III.

^t Cljraiticte of nit Mnhjm imlk^

GEORGE MANVILLE Penn,

AUTHOR OF
the vicar's People;" " THE PARSON o' DUMFORD," ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOLUME III.

LONDON :
CHAPMAN & HAIJj, Limited, 11, Henrietta ST., W.C.

1883.

\ All Rights reserved']

V. 3

CONTENTS OF VOLUME III.

JJOOk II. — (Continued.)

CHAPTER V.

PAGE

WHAT PLAN NEXT ] . . . . . . 1

CHAPTER VI.

UNSELFISH PROCEEDINGS . . . 12

CHAPTER VII.

AN OFFER DECLINED . . . 21

CHAPTER VIII.

A VISIT FROM BROTHER JOCK . . . 30

CHAPTER IX.

A CRUEL CHARGE . . . . 41

CHAPTER X.

AT KW.BY .

55

CHAPTER XI.

lovers' words . . . . 75

CHAPTER XII.

LAMBENT LOVE . . . . 91

CHAPTER XIII.

AN EVENTFUL NIGHT . . . 103

CHAPTER XIV.
gone! where'? . . . . 122

CHAPTER XV.

THE BIRD AND THE SERPENT . . . 130

CHAPTER XVI.

A MEETING AND PARTING . . . 146

IJocrk III.— i;ite IJarnster'e. Jlau.
CHAPTER I.

Page

IN CHAMBERS • . . . . 157

CHAPTER II.

IN TROUBLE . . . . 173

CHAPTER III.

LUKE ROSS HEARS NEWS . . . 18G

CHAPTER IV.

AN IMPORTANT BRIEF . . . 196

CHAPTER V.

-A HARD DUTY . . " . . 217

CHAPTER VI.

the CASE FOR THE PROSECUTION . . 227

CHAPTER VII. ^

AFTER THE SENTENCE . . . 239

CHAPTER VIII.

A FORLORN Hope . . . . 248

CHAPTER IX.

BACK HOME . .



CHAPTER X.

DOWN AT LAWFORD . . . . 269

CHAPTER XI.

LUKE VISITS AN OLD FRIEND . . . 278

CHAPTER XII.

A LONG SLEEP . . . . 290

CHAPTER XIII.

SOUNDS IN THE FOG . . . 296

CHAPTER XIV.

THE convict's ESCAPE . . . 311

CHAPTER XV.

WIDOWED INDEED „ . ". . 322

CHAPTER XVI.

AFTER FOUR YEARS . . . . 331

BOOK 11.— continued,)
CHAPTEE V.

WHAT PLAN NEXT ?

James Magnus had just struggled to hin
knees, feeling half mad with rage at his impotence,
for it was only now that he fully
realized how terribly he had been reduced by
his illness. Here before him was the man
whom he had to thank for his sufferings, and
against whom for other reasons as well he
nourished a bitter hatred ; and yet, instead of
being able to seize him by the throat and force
the scoundrel to his knees, he was as helpless
as a child.

VOL. III. £

Dory ! villain ! " he panted, as he staggered
up, and made at the fellow ; but Jock Morrison
gave him a contemptuous look for answer,
and turned to him, but seemed to alter his
mind, and as if alarmed at what he had done,
started off at a brisk trot ; while after vainly
looking round for help, Magnus tottered
towards the edge of the cliff, his eyes starting
and the great drops of perspiration gathering
upon his fcice.

For a few moments he dared not approach
the extreme verge, for everything seemed to
be swimming before his eyes, but at last,
horror-stricken, and trembling in every limb,
he went down on hands and knees, crept to
the spot where Artingale had gone over, and
peered down, expecting to see the mangled
remains of his poor friend lying upon the
stones beneath.

** Ahoy ! " came from below, in the well-known
voice of Artingale ; and then, as
Magnus saw his friend some twenty feet
below, trying to clamber back, he uttered a low
sigh, and sank back fainting upon the turf.
For in spite of Jock Morrison's murderous

intent, fate had been kind to Harry Artingale,
who had been hurled over the edge in one of
the few places where instead of going down
perpendicularly, the friable cliff was broken up
into ledges and slopes, upon one of which the
young man had fallen and clung for his life
to the rugged pieces of stone, slipping in a
little avalanche of fragments some twenty or
thirty feet farther than his first fall of about
ten. Here he managed to check himself, while
one of the largest fragments of stone that he had
started in his course went on, and as he clung;
there he saw it leap, as it were, from beside
him, and a few seconds after there came up a
dull crash from where the stone had struck
and splintered, two hundred feet below.

I shall lose my nerve," he thought, '' if I
stop here ; " and rousing himself into action,
he began to climb back, and was making his
way up the steep slope without much difficulty,
when he saw his friend's ghastly face for a
moment, peering over the edge, and then it
disappeared.

Poor old fellow, it has made him giddy,"
muttered Artingale, as he drew himself up

B 2

ho-her and higher, clinging close to the face of
the slope and placing his feet cautiously till
he found himself with his hands resting upon
a ledo'e only a few feet below the top of the

cliff. ""

If he could only get upon this ledge the rest
would be easy, but Unless he could draw himself
up by the strength of his muscles, he felt
that he must wait for help, and the task was
one of no little difficulty, for there was no
firm hold for his hands.

He knew that if he waited for help he must
lose his nerve by thinking of his perilous
position, while if he tried to draw himself up
and did not succeed in reaching the ledge he
felt that he must fall.

He dared not pause to think of the consequences
of that fall, for though he had
escaped so far, it was not likely that he would
be so fortunate again.

He was standing now with his feet on a
piece of crumbling sandstone, which was
likely enough to give way if he tried to make
a spring upwards.

Still, there was nothing else to be done, and

drawing in a deep breath, he remained perfectly
motionless before making the supreme
effort.

His hands were only a few inches above his
head, and he began searching about with them
now for a crevice into which he could thrust
his fingers, but the blind search was vain, and
feeling that this was hopeless, he let his eyes
fall to scan the surface of the rock below his
chest for some fresh foothold ; but there was
none, unless he cut a niche in the soft sandstone,
and he had no knife. If he climbed to
the right he would be in no better position ;
if to the left, he would be in a worse ; so
once more drawing a long breath, he began
cautiously to draw himself up higher and
higher by sheer force of muscle, till his eyes
were level with the edge of the shelf; then
an inch or two higher, and then he felt
that his hands were giving way — that he was
falling — that all was over, and that he must
be dashed to pieces, when, in his agony, he
saw an opening, a mere crack across the shelf,
but it was sufficient for him to force in the
fingers of one hand with a desperate effort,

and then, how he knew not, he placed the
other beside it.

He could cling here and force feet and
knees against the face of the rock, and in the
struggle of the next few moments he raised
himself higher, scrambled on to the ledge, rose
panting and with every nerve in his body
quivering, seized hold of a stone above him,
thrust his feet into a niche or two, gained the
top of the cliff, and, unable to keep up the
tension longer, he loosed the strain upon his
nerves and sank down beside his friend,
trembling in every limb.

This, however, did not last many moments,
for, shaking off the feeling of his own horror,
Artingale rose, drew down and buttoned his
wristbands, looking pityingly the while at his
friend, and then caught up his coat and threw
it on.

The next moment he was kneeling beside
Magnus, who soon after opened his eyes.

'* Ah, Harry," he said, feebly 'you didn't know
what a miserable reed you had for a friend."

Nonsense, man ! How are you ? Did
the blackguard hurt you ? "

*' No, scarcely at all. Fm weak as" a rat.
But you ! "

Oh, Fm all right. Only a little skin ofF
my elbows and varnish off my toes. Which
way did the brute go ? "

Over the hill yonder," said Magnus.

'* Where he may go," said Artingale, " for
hang me if I go after him to-day. Why,
confound him, he's as strong as a bull. I
couldn't have thought a man could be so
powerful. But let's get back, old fellow.
Can you walk ? "

Oh yes, Fm better now," said Magnus
feebly ; " but I shall never forgive myself for
failing you at such a pinch."

Never mind the failing, Jemmy : but
pinch it was ; the blackguard nearly broke
my ribs. One moment : let me look down."

He walked to the edge and looked over the
cliff, realizing more plainly now the terrible
risk he had run, for his escape had been
narrow indeed, and in spite of his attempt to
preserve his composure, he could not help
feeling a peculiar moisture gathering in the
palms of his hands. But he laughed it off ashe

took Magnus's arm, and drew it through
his own, saying,

It's a great blessing, my dear boy, that I
took off this coat It would have been
completely spoiled."

You had an awfully narrow escape."

Yes ; and it is almost a pity the brute did
not kill me," said Artingale, coolly.

Harry ! "

Well, if he had, the police would have
hunted the scoundrel down, then he would
have been hung, and little Julie could have
rested in peace."

And Cynthia ? " said Magnus, with a sad
smile.

'' Ah, yes ! poor little darling, she would
shave broken her heart. But I say, old fellow,
it's a pity the scoundrel got away. What are
we to do ? "

He must be taken," exclaimed Magnus,
at any cost. It was a murderous attempt
on your life."

Humph ! yes, but he might swear that I
tried to throw him over first. It was a fight,
old fellow, and I got the worst of it."

But he must be taken."

No," said Artiugale, " I think not, old
fellow ; his is a peculiar case, and we can't be
going into witness-boxes and answering all
sorts of questions. After to day's adventure
down below on the beach, I don't see that we
can move. No, Magnus, there are things that
must be hushed up, and this is one of them.
But we must do something. I declare I'll
mount a revolver, and have a shot at the
brute if he annoys them again, legal or
illegal."

Impossible," said Magnus, bitterly.

'^ By Jove ; if he'd only go down home again
and get up to some of his poaching tricks. I
tell you what, Magnus, old man," he said,
setting his teeth, '' i hope fate will never place
me with my men down at Gatley, going to
meet a poaching party led by Jock Morrison.
If she does — well "

Well what ? "

I hope I shan't have a gun in my hand."

You must persuade Mr. Mallow to leave
here."

What I just as he has come down for

Julia s health. No, my dear fellow, you might
just as well try to move a rock. But I say,
our first attempt at playing detectives don't
seem to have been much of a success."

No," said Magnus, dreamily. " Let's get
back."

What are you thinking about, old man,"
said Artingale, after a pause.

I was thinking whether the fellow could
be bribed to go away."

Oh, yes, easily," said Artingale, *' and
he'd go and come back next week, and levy
blackmail wherever the family went, while the
very fact of his having been paid off would
give the affair an ugly look if ever we had occasion
to drag the scoundrel before the judge."

'then what is to be done ?" said Magnus,
angrily, " the police must be consulted."

No : won't do," said Artingale, decisively.
Wait a bit. Jemmy, and I'll hit upon some
plan. Unfortunately, we live in these degraded
times when that fine old institution
the press-gang is no more."

This is no time for levity, Harry," said
Magnus, bitterly.

Levity ! My clear boy, my feelings
towards that fellow are full of anything but
levity. He nearly killed me, and that is no
joke ; and — oh ! horror of horror ! I did not
expect this — here's Perry-Morton."

He was quite right, for the idol of the early
masters' clique was advancing to meet them
after failing to see poor Julia, who with
throbbing pulses and cheeks now pale, now
burning with fever, was sobbing in her sister's
arms.

CHAPTER VI. .

UNSELFISH PROCEEDINGS.

"Frightened away? Not a doubt about
it," said Artingale. " I feel as if I had
been a martyr, and offered myself up as a
sacrifice."

Martyr — sacrifice ! " cried Cynthia, looking
at the speaker keenly, and with her bright
little face flushing. 'now, Harry, I'll never
forgive you. I'm sure you've been keeping
something back. There, see how guilty you
look ! Oh, shame ! shame ! "

Artingale protested that he had been silent
only from the best motives, was accused of
deceit and want of confidence, and ended by
making a full confession of the whole incident,
after which he had to take Cynthia and show

her the exact spot before his shuddering little
companion condescended to forgive.

'^ And when was this, sir ? "

This day month," said Artingale, humbly
and we have not seen him since. Magnus
and I have watched, and searched, and hunted,
and done everything possible ; but, as I say,
I think I have been the sacrifice. He believes
he killed me, and is afraid to show."

'' Perhaps he has committed suicide out of
remorse," said Cynthia.

Just the sort of fellow who would," replied
Artingale, with a dry look.

Now you are laughing at me," cried
Cynthia, pettishly. " I declare, Harry, I
believe you are tired of me, and want to
quarrel. I've been too easy with you, sir, and
ought to have kept you at a distance."

More protesting and pardoning took place
here, all very nice in their way, but of no
interest to any save the parties concerned.

"You must get Julie to come out more

o

now," said Artingale. 'tell her there is
nothing to mind."

I can't make poor Julie out at all," said

Cynthia thoughtfully. " She seems so strange
and quiet. That man must have frightened
her dreadfully."

Did she tell you about it ? "

Very little, and if I press her she shudders,
and seems ready to burst out sobbing. Then
I have to comfort her by telling her that I
am sure she will never see him any more,
and when I say this she looks at me so
strangely."

What does mamma say '? "

'' Oh, only that Julie is foolish and hysterical.
She doesn't understand her at all. Poor
mamma never did understand us girls, I'm
sure," said Cynthia, with a profound look of
wisdom upon her little face.

^' And papa?"

Oh, poor dear papa thinks of nothing but
seeing us married and — Oh, Harry, I am
ashamed."

What of ? " he cried, catching her in his
arms and kissing her tenderly. " Why,
Cynthy, I never knew before what a fine old
fellow the pater is. He is up to par in my
estimation now."

Is that meant for a joke, sir ? " said
Cynthia mockingly.

Joke ? — joke ? I don't know what you
mean."

Never mind now ; but you need not be
so pleased about what papa says. I think
it's very cruel — wanting to get rid of us."

I don't," exclaimed Artingale, laughing.

'' Then you want to see poor Julie married
to that dreadful Perry-Morton ? "

No, I don't ; I want her to have dear old
James Magnus. I say, Cynthy. We won't
be selfish, eh ? We won't think about ourselves,
will we 1 Let's try and make other
people happy."

Yes, Harry, we will."

It was wonderful to see the sincerity with
which these two young people spoke, and
how eagerly they set to making plans for
other people's happiness — a process which
seemed to need a great deal of clinging together
for mutual support, twining about of
arms, and looking long and deeply into each
other's eyes for counsel. Then Artingale's
hair was a little too much over his forehead

for the thoughts of Cynthia to flow freely,
and it had to be smoothed back by a little
white hand with busy fingers. But that hair
was obstinate, and it was not until the little
pinky fingers had several times been moistened
between Cynthia's ruddy lips and drawn over
the objecting strands of hair that they could
be forced to retain the desired position.

After the performance of such a kindly
service Artingale would have been ungrateful
if he had not thanked her in the most
affectionate way his brain could suggest, a
proceeding of which, with all due modesty,
the young lady seemed highly to approve.

Then Harry's tie was not quite right, and
the new collar stud had to be admired, and
a great deal more of this very unselfish eaii
sucree had to be imbibed before Julia again
came on the tapis ^ her entrance being heralded
by a sister's sigh.

Poor Julie ! " said Cynthia.

Oh, yes ; poor Julia. Now, look here,
pet, I dare say it's very shocking, and if it
were known the Rector would be sure to
give me my conger

'' Oh, I would never think of telling him,
Harry."

That's right. Well, as I was saying,
if she marries Perry-Morton she will be
miserable."

Horribly," assented Cynthia.

*' And if she marries old Magnus she will
be very happy."

But are you sure that Mr. Magnus really
loves her ? "

He worships her. I'm sure of it"

Then it would be wicked, wouldn't it,
Harry, to keep them apart ? "

I should think it as bad as murder to keep
us apart."

'^ Should you, Harry 1 "

Yes'' And more unselfish proceedings.

Then, as papa and mamma have made
a mistake, don't you think we ought to
help them?"

Yes," said Artingale, " but how ? Magnus
hangs back. He says he is sure that Julia
does not think of him in the slightest degree.
What do you say ? "

I don't know what to say," cried Cynthia

VOL. III. c

thoughtfully, *' only that I am sure she hates
Perry-Morton. She says she does."

But does she show any liking for
Magnus ? "

N — no, Fm afraid not. But does that
matter, dear ? "

Well, I should think not," replied Artis
thoughtfully. " Magnus loves her very
much, and Fm sure no girl could help loving
him in return. I almost feel jealous when he
talks to you."

No, you don't, Harry," retorted Cynthia,
recommencing operations upon the obstinate
lock of hair.

Then what is to be done ? " said Artingale,
at last, after another long display of unselfishness.


I'm sure I don't know, Harry. It almost
seems as if Julia was ready to let herself go
with the stream. She is so quiet and strange
and reserved. I don't know what to make
of her. She keeps fancying she sees that

man."

But she don't see him."

Oh no : it is impossible ; but she is so

changed. I find her sometimes sitting and
thinking, looking straight before her as if she
were in a dream. Bring Mr. Magnus here
more often."

'' Here ? "

Well, no ; to Lawford. I'll coax papa
into asking him. Oh, I say, what a capital
idea ! " cried Cynthia, clapping her hands. " 1
have it. Her portrait ! "

Her portrait !" exclaimed Artingale, starting,
as he recalled the scene in his friend's
studio.

Yes ; the very thing. You take him
down to Gatley, and papa shall ask Mr.
Magnus over to Lawford to paint Julia's
portrait, and then there will be such long
sittings, Harry ; and Mr. Magnus will have
to look at her so patiently, and move this
hand there and that hand here, and o^et her
into quite the correct pose. Oh, Harry, what
fun ! "

Why, you cunning little witch," he exclaimed
; "if Magnus does not jump at the
idea, he deserves to lose her."

Then there came a little more unselfishness

C 2

and a little disinterested proceeding, which
was interrupted by the entrance of Julia herself,
looking very pale and sad. There was
a far-off, distant aspect about her eyes, as of
one who was thinking deeply of some great
trouble, but she smiled affectionately when
Cynthia spoke, after which the conspirators
exchanged glances, and Artingale went away.

CHAPTEE VII.

AN OFFER DECLINED.

They were to be busy times at the Rectors
that winter, for the servants left in charge
heard that there was to be a great deal of
company.

The Gatley domestics too had to make
preparations, for Lord Artingale intended to
entertain that season. A room was set apart
for Mr. Magnus the great artist. Miss Mallow's
brothers were expected to come over
from the Rectory to shoot, and Mr. Cyril
Mallow, it was anticipated, would be asked to
bring his young wife and stay there at the
fine-old house— a fact, for Sage was a member
now of the Mallow family, and Harry Artis
liked her as much as he disliked her
husband.

There was plenty of gossip rife in Lawford,
and on the strength of old Michael Koss
saying, when he was told that Mr. Magnus the
painter was coming down, that his son Luke
knew him, having met him at a London
club, the report ran through the place that
Luke Eoss was getting to be quite a big
man, and had become a friend of Lord
Artingale.

Not that that's much," said Fullerton, at
the King's Head, " for the young lord isn't
what his father was. Old Lord Artingale
wouldn't have married one of Mallow's girls,
I know, nor yet made boon companions of
those two sons and Luke Eoss."

I don't think you need put them all
together," said Tomlinson, with a sly laugh ;
Luke Eoss wouldn't be very good friends
with the man who stole his lass. If he would
he's not the Luke Eoss that he was when he
was down here."

In due time the blinds went up at Gatley
and at the Rectory, and the tradespeople who
had been ready to discuss the shortcomings
of the Eector were obsequious enough in

soliciting this orders now the family had
returned.

They had made a long stay at Hastings, for
the Rector fancied it did Mrs. Mallow good.
She seemed to smile more, and to look
brighter, he told himself, and he would stand
and beam at her as he wheeled her couch to the
open window when it was fine, and watch her
gazing at the sea with the greatest of satisfaction.


Frank had made journeys to and from
London, making at the latter place Cyril's
house at Kensington his headquarters, and
frequently being his companion away from
home.

Julia was no better, in spite of the opinion
of the doctor, who said that she had decidedly
gained tone, and that the change now to her
native air would complete the cure ; so the
family returned to Lawford as the winter
drew near, and, as a matter of course. Lord
Artingale soon found his way back to Gatley.

There was some preparation too at Kilby,
for Portlock said that it was his turn to have
the young folks to stay.

They may go to the rectory as much as
they like, mother," — a title he invariably gave
Mrs. Portlock, on the Incus a non lucendo principles
— " but I mean to have them stay here ;
not that Fm particularly fond of Master Cyril ;
but there, he's the little lassie's husband, and
it's all right."

But you asked John Berry and Eue to
come and bring the little ones," said Mrs.
Portlock.

"' Well, I know that, old lady. Isn't Kilby
buff enough to hold the lot ? Let's have the
place made a bit cheerful ; I like to hear a
good hearty shout of laughter naw and then,,
and you've taken to do nothing else lately but
grumble softly and scold."

It's a wicked story, Joseph, and you know
it," cried Mrs. Portlock, as the Churchwarden
turned away from her and winked at the cat ;
and as for noise, I'm sure you make enough
in the house without wanting: more."

Never mind, let's have more ; and Cyril
Mallow can shoot down the rabbits, for they're
rather getting ahead."

As he spoke he had been filling his pipe

and he now took out a letter, read it, and
slowly folded it up for a pipe-light, saying to
himself —

He's no business to want me to lend him
a hundred pound after what I so lately did
for them as a start."

James Magnus had been invited to take
Julia's portrait, the Rector, artfully prompted
thereto by Cynthia, accompanying the commission
by a very warm invitation to stay at
the rectory as much as he could while the
portrait was in progress, as he heard that Mr.
Magnus was coming down to Gatley.

Artingale dropped in at his friend's studio
on the very day that he received the Eector's
letter — of course by accident, based upon a
hint from Cynthia ; and found Magnus sitting
thoughtfully by his easel, pretending to paint,
but doing nothing.

Why, Mag, you look well enough and
strong enough now to thrash Hercules himself,
in the person of our gipsy friend."

Yes, I feel myself again," was the reply.
By the way, Harry, I've had an invitation
to Lawford."

Indeed ! I'm very glad. I go down tomorrow."


The Rector wishes me to paint his daughter's
portrait."

- Not Cynthia's ? "

No, that of his daughter Julia."

Why, Magnus," said Artingale, smiling to
himself and laying his hand upon his friend's
arm, " could you wish for a greater pleasure ? "

Magnus looked at him so fixedly for a few
moments that Artingale felt that he must be
suspected ; but it was not so, the artist only
shook his head, and there was a bitter look in
his face, as he spoke again.

Pleasure ! " he said ; " how can it be a
pleasure to me ? Harry, my boy, how can
you be so thoughtless. Do you think I could
be guilty of so dishonourable an act ? "

Dishonourable ? "

Yes," cried Magnus passionately. " Should
I not go there on false pretences to try and
win that poor girl from the man to whom she
is enojao-ed ? "

But, my dear fellow, it is a folly of her
whither's invention ; she detests this Perry-morton,

as every right-thinking, matter-of-fact
crirl would. Why, the fellow dances attendance
upon every woman of fashion, and deserves
to be encountered with any weapon one could
seize. Tell me, do you think it right that she
should marry such a man ? "

"No: certainly not. No more right than
that she should be deluded into marrying
another man she did not love."

But she would love you, Mag. My dear
fellow, don't refuse to go. Accept the offer
for Julia's sake — for Cynthia's and mine, if
you like. Don't be scrupulous about trifles.
I tell you she is a dear, sweet girl, and I know
your secret. She is heart-whole now, but if
she began to learn that there was some one
who really loved her, she would fly to him
like a young bird does to her mate."

Very pretty sophistry, Harry Artingale.
When you have had your fling of life I should
advise you to turn Jesuit."

Don't talk stuff, my dear fellow. Take
my advice. Go down with me at once to
Gatley, and make your hay while the sunshines.
I guarantee the result."

What, that I shall be kicked out as a
scoundrel 1 "

Nonsense ! kicked out, indeed ! That you
will win little Julia s heart."

"As I should deserve to be," continued
Magnus, without heeding his friend's words.
"No, Harry, I am not blind. I can read
Julia Mallow's heart better, perhaps, than I
can read my own, and I know that, whoever
wins her love, I shall not be the man. As to
her marriage with this wretched butterfly of
the day, I can say nothing — do nothing. That
rests with the family."

James Magnus," cried Artingale, angrily,
sophistry or no, I wouldn't stand by and
see the woman I loved taken from before my
eyes by that contemptible cad. The world
might say what it liked about honour and
dishonour, and perhaps it might blame you,
while, at the same time, it will praise up
and deliver eulogies upon the wedding of that
poor girl to Perry Morton. But what is
the opinion of such a world as that worth ?
Come, come — take your opportunity, and
win and wear her. Hang it all, Jemmy !

don't say the young Lochinvar was in the
wrong."

You foolish, enthusiastic boy," said
Magnus, smiling, " so you think I study the
sayings or doings of the fragment of our people
that you call the world ? No, I look elsewhere
for the judgment, and, may be, most of
all in my own heart. There, say no more
about it. I have made up my mind."

And I have made up mine," cried Artis
sharply, " that you have not the spirit of
a man."

He left the studio hot and angry, went
straight to his chambers, and soon after he
was on his way to Gatley, having determined
to see Cynthia at once for a fresh unselfish
discussion upon Julia's state.

CHAPTER Vii

A VISIT FROM BROTHER JOCK. ^

Well," said Smithson, the tailor, as he
looked up from a square patch that he was
inserting in the seat of a fellow-townsman's
trousers, " the parson has his faults, and as a
family I don't like 'em, but when they're down
it do make a difference to the town."

This was as the cobble stones of the little
place rattled to the beating of horses' hoofs,
while a bright-looking little equestrian party
passed along the main street; Cynthia
mounted on a favourite mare belonging to
Lord Artingale, one which she was always
pleading to ride, and one whereon her slave
loved to see her, though he always sent her
over to the rectory in fear and trembling,

ordering the groom who took her to give hera
good gallop on the way to tame her down.

Not that there was the slightest disposition
to vice in the beautiful little creature, she was
only spirited, or, as the people in his lordship's
stable said, "a bit larky," and when Cynthia
was mounted there was plenty of excuse for
the young man's pride.

I shall never have patience to ride an old
plodding, humble-stumble horse again, Harry,"
the little maiden used to say. " It's like
sitting on air ; and she is such a dear, and ita
shame to put two such great bits in her
mouth."

*' It is only so that you might check her
easily, Cynthy," said Artingale, anxiously.
You need not mind ; with such a hand as
yours at the rein they don't hurt her mouth."

But I'm sure they do, Harry," cried
Cynthia ; " and look how she champs them up,
and what a foam she makes, and when she
snorts and throws up her head it flies over
my new riding-habit."

"Never mind, my beautiful little darling''
he whispered ; " you shall have a new riding-habit

every week if you like, only you must
have the big curb for Mad Sal. Oh, I'd give
something if Magnus could reproduce you now
with one instantaneous touch of his brush,
and "

'' Hush ! you silly boy," she whispered
reprovingly, as the mare ambled on. " This is
not the time and place to talk such nonsense."

Nonsense or no, it produced a very satisfactory
glow in the little maiden's heart — a
glow which shone in her soft cheeks, and
made her eyes flash as they rode on.

These riding parties were very frequent,
Cyril and Frank joining ; sometimes John
Magnus, but never upon the days when Julia
was prevailed upon to mount.

For Cyril was supposed to be staying with
his young wife at the farm, but he passed the
greater part of his time at the rectory, when
he was not at Gatley with his brother.

It was a pleasant time, for the roads were
hard that winter, the air crisp and dry, giving
a tone to the nerves and muscles, and an
elasticity to the mind, that made even quiet
James Magnus look more like himself, while

there were times when Julia looked less dreamy
and pale, and as if the thoughts of her
persecutor were less frequent in her breast.

Sage and she had grown more intimate, as
if there were feelings in common between
them, the quiet toleration of Cyril's wife
ripening fast into affection, so that, as
Cynthia's time was so much taken up by Lord
Artingale, Julia and Sage were a good deal
together, the latter being her sister-in-law's
companion in her visiting rounds, when, to the
Rev. Lawrence Paulby's satisfaction, she tried
to counteract some of the prevalent ill-feeling
against the Mallow family by calls here and
there amongst the parishioners.

One place where they often called was at
the ford of the river, to have a chat with little
Mrs. Morrison, where somehow there seemed
to be quite a magnetic attraction ; Cyril's wife
sitting down in the neatly-kept little place to
gaze almost in silence at the wheelwright's
pretty young wife, while, as if drawn there
against her will, Julia would stop and talk.

The river was very pretty just there even in
winter, brawling and babbling over the gravel

VOL. III.

before settling down calm and still as it flowed
slowly amongst the deep holes beneath the
willow pollards, where the big fish were
known to lie. And more than once sister and
sister-in-law came upon Cyril in one or other
of the fields, trying after the big jack that no
one yet had caught.

I know he's about here somewhere," said
Cyril, over and over again. " He lies in wait
for the dace that come off the shallows, and
I mean to have him before Tve done."

That was an artful jack though, for it must
have understood Cyril Mallow and his wiles,
obstinately refusing to be caught.

Julia used to look very serious when she
saw him there again and again, but she felt
afraid to speak, for the confidence that had
existed between her and her old maid seemed
to have passed away, and when their eyes met
at times there was a curious shrinking look on
either side ; and so the time went on.

One day Tom Morrison was busily at work
at a piece of well-seasoned ash with his spoke-shave.
The day was bright and keen and cold,
but he was stripped to shirt and trousers, the

neck unfastened, sleeves rolled up, and a look
of calm satisfaction in his face as his muscles
tightened and he drew off the thin spiral
shavings from the piece of wood.

In old days the workshop used to resound
with snatches of song, or his rather melodious
whistling ; but of late, since the loss of his
little one, he had grown cold and grave,
working in a quiet, subdued manner ; and
those who knew him said that he was nursing
up his revenge against the parson.

Fullerton gave him several jobs that should
by rights have gone to Biggins the carpenter,
and he once went so far as to say —

They tell me you never go to church now,
Tom Morrison."

Would you like it painted stone-colour or
white, Mr. Fullerton ? " said Tom Morrison,
quietly.

Oh — er — white," replied Fullerton, and he
said no more upon that occasion.

It was about a month later, over another
job, that Fullerton ventured another advance,
and this time he said, as he was leaving the
workshop, and holding out his hand —

D 2

"Good-bye, Morrison. Oh, by the way,
we've got Samuel Mumbey, Dad., at the
chapel on Sunday. Preaches twice. We'll
find you good seats if you and Mrs* Morrison
will come. Ours is a nice woshup, Morrison,
a very nice woshup, as you would say if yon
was to try."

Thankye, sir," said Tom Morrison, stolidly,
and again Fullerton said no more till he was
some distance away, when he rubbed his hands
softly and smiled a satisfied smile, saying to
himself —

I should like to save Tom Morrison and
his wife from the pit."

Tom Morrison was hard at work, thinking
sometimes of his pretty little wife in the
cottage, and how thin and careworn she had
grown of late. He wondered whether it was
his fault, and because he had been so hard
and cold since he had lost his little child and
quarrelled with the Eector; whether, too, he
ought not to try and bring back some of the
brightness to her face, when it seemed as if so
much light as usual did not shine in upon his
work.

He raised his head, and found that there
were a pair of thick arms leaning on the
window-sill, and a great bearded face resting
upon them, the owner's eyes staring hard at
him.

Hallo, Jock ! " he said, quietly.

"What, Tommy!" was the deep-toned reply;
and then there was a pause, as Tom Morrison
felt angry as he thought of his brother's ne'er-do-well
life, and then of his having been hard
and cold of late, and this seemed the time for
beginnings in another line.

Long time since I've seen you, Jock," he
said, quietly.

"Aye, 'tis. Tommy. Working hard as usual."

"Aye, working hard, Jock," said Tom, resting
his spoke-shave. " Thou used to be a good
workman, Jock. Why not take to it again ? "

Me ? Work ? Cheer ?

ril give you plenty to do, Jock, and find
wage for it, lad, if thou'lt drop being a shack
and battle down'

Jock Morrison laughed in a deep and silent
manner.

*' Nay, lad, nay," he said at last. " Thankye

kindly, Tom, all the same. What's the good
o' working ? "

To be respectable and save money."

I don't want to be respectable. I don't
want to save money, lad. There's plenty do
that wi'out me."

But how will it be when thou grows old
and sick, lad ? "

Why then. Tommy, I shall die ; just the
same as you will. I'm happy my way, lad.
Thought happy thy way. Folk say I'm a shack,
and a blackguard, and a poacher. Well, let
'em ; I don't keep."

"Nay, don't say that, lad," said Tom
Morrison ; "I don t like it. I'd like to see
thee tak' to work and be a man."

Ha, ha, ha, Tom ! Why, I'm a bigger and
a stronger man than thou art anyways. Nay,
I don't keep for work. Let them do it as likes.
I don't want boxing up in a house or a shed. I
want to be in the free air, and to come and goas
I like. I see no good in your ways. Let
me bide."

Tom looked at him in a dull, careworn way.

"Why, look ye here, lad," cried Jock.

Here am I as blithe and hearty as a bird,
and here are you, plod, plod, plod, from day
to day, round and round, like old Michael
Ross's blind horse in the bark mill. I look
as hearty as a buck ; you look ten years older,
and as if life wasn't worth a gill o' ale."

I weaned argue with you, Jock," said Tom,
quietly. " You must go your own gate, I
suppose, and I'll go mines'

"Aye, that's it, Tommy."

But if ever you like to try being an honest
man again, lad, I'm thy own brother, and I'll
give thee a lift best way I can for the old
folks' sake."

Jock Morrison left the window, and came
like a modern edition of Aster of the stately
stride round to the door, walked in amongst
the shavings and sawdust, gave his brother a
tremendous slap on the back, and then seized
his hand and stood shaking it for a good
minute by the old Dutch clock in the corner.

He did not speak, but half sat down afterwards
upon the bench, watching his brother
as Tom resumed his work.

'• How's little wife ? " said Jock at last.

40 ELIS CHILDREN,

*' Not hearty, Jock," said Tom Morrison.
"She's pined a deal lately. Never got over
losing the bairn."

There was a spell of silence here, and then
Tom said quietly —

Go in and have a crust o' bread and
cheese, Jock, and a mug of ale. The little
lass has been baking this morning."

"Aye, I will," said Jock, and thrusting his
hands down into his pockets, he rolled like
a great ship on a heaving sea out of the workshop,
along the road, and then through the
little garden, and without ceremony into the
cottage, stooping his head as he passed
in at the low dooi\

CHAPTER IX.

A CRUEL CHARGE.

Polly was busy at needle-work, and as
the great fellow strode in and stood staring
at her, she started up and seemed, as if about
to run away.

You here, Jock, again ? " she faltered.

Aye ! here I am again," he said, in a
deep growl, as he fixed her with his eye,
while she trembled before him and his fierce
look.

I'm glad — to see you, Jock," she said,
faintly, and she glanced towards the door.

That's a lie," he growled, and then he
laughed grimly, but only for his face to
darken into a savage scowl. " Tom said I was
to come in, lass."

Oh, you've seen Tom ! " she said, as if
relieved.

'^ Aye, and he said I was to have some
bread and cheese and beer."

Yes, Jock," she cried ; " I'll get it out."

She had to pass him, and he caught
her hand in his, towering over her and
making her shiver, as if fascinated by his
gaze, as Julia Mallow had been a score of
times.

Stop ! " he said, in a low, deep voice.
Wait a bit. I don't want the bread and
cheese. Look here, Polly."

Yes, Jock, yes," she panted ; " but don't
hurt me."

Hurt ye ! " he growled ; "I feel as if
I could kill thee."

'jock!"

Look here, Polly. I came to see Tom
to-day to jump upon him, and call him a
fool, and give him back what he's given
me for not settling down and marrying and
being respectable. I was going to laugh at
him, and show him what his respectable
married life was."

"I — I don't understand you, Jock," she
said, faintly.

It's 'a lie," lie growled. " I was going
to laugh at him, but, damn it, he's so good
a chap I hadn't the heart to mak' him
miserable any more than he is about that
poor bairn he thinks was his, and I "

How dare you ! " cried Polly, flaming up,
and trying to tear away her hand ; but he held
it fast, and, in spite of her indignation, she
cowered before his fierce, almost savage looks.

"How dare I?" he growled. "Didn't
young Serrol run after you at the house
when you where at Mallow's ? Hasn't he
been after you ever since 1 Isn't he everyday
nearly hanging about the river there
fishing, so as to come and talk to thee ?
Curse you ! " he growled. " This is a wife, is
it ? But, by G — d, it shan't go on, for I'll take
him by the neck next time he's fishing yonder
by the willow stumps, and I'll how him underwater
and drownd him as I would a pup."

"Oh, Jock, Jock, Jock," she cried, sinking
on her knees.

I will — I will, by G — d ! " he cried, ina

fierce growl ; " and then you may go and
say I did it, when they find his cursed carcase,
and get me hung for drowning thy lover."

It's a lie ! " cried Polly, springing up
and speaking passionately. " Cyril Mallow is
no lover of mine. I hate and detest him,
but never dared tell poor Tom how he came
and troubled me. But I'll tell him now ; 111
confess all to him. I'd sooner he killed me
than you should insult me with such lies."

She made a rush for the door, and had
reached it, but, with an activity not to be
expected in his huge frame, Jock swept round
one great arm, seized her, and drew her back,
quivering with indignation.

Let me go," she cried, passionately.
Tom ! Tom ! "

How thy noise," he growled, and once
more she shrunk cowering from his fierce eyes.
Now then, say that again. S'elp your G — d,
Serrol Mallow is nothing to thee, and never
has been''

I won't," she cried, passionately, and
she flashed up once more and met his gaze.
"How dare you ask me such a thing ? "

Say it, lass — say it out honest, lass — is
what I say true ? "

No," she cried, gazing full in his eyes.
It's a cruel, cruel lie. Let me go. I'll
tell Tom now — every word — everything that

man has said, and "

Jock let his great hand sink from Polly's
little arm to her wrist, and led her to a chair,
she being helpless against his giant strength.

Nay," he said, '' thou shan't tell him.
It would half kill him first, and then he'd
go and kill parson's boy."

Yes, yes ; he would, he would," sobbed
Polly. " I dared not tell him, and it's been
breaking my heart. But I won't bear it.
Go away from here. How dare you say such
things to me ? "

How thy tongue, lass," said Jock, in a
deep growl, and his strong will mastered hers.
Hearken to me, Polly. I beg thy pardon,
lass, and I can read it in thy pretty eyes that
all I said was a lie. I beg thy pardon, lass."

" How could you — how dare you ? " sobbed
Polly. " Tom, Tom ! come here — come
here ! "

Hush ! he can't hear thee, lass," growled
Jock. " I've seen so much that I thought
thou wast playing a bad game against Tom ;
but 1 was wrong, my little lass, and I say
forgive me."

Let me go and tell Tom all now," she
sobbed. " I shan't be happy till I do."

'' Dost want to mak' thyself happy,"
growled Jock, sinking into his old Lincolnshire
brogue, after losing much by absence
in other counties — " happy, half breaking
Tom's heart, and getting murder done ? If
thou dost — go ! "

Polly bounded to the door to seek her
husband's help, and tell him all, Jock watching
her the while ; but as she reached the door
her courage failed, and she turned away with a
piteous wail.

Oh, God help me ! " she cried ; ^' what
shall I do ? "

"Come and sit down, lass, and dry thy
eyes," said Jock, kindly. " Say thou forgives
me. I'm very sorry, lass. I'm a down bad
un, but I like owt Tom. He's a good 'un, is
Tom."

The best, the truest of men'

And I'm glad he's got a good little true
wife," growled Jock. " There, it's all right,
ain't it, Polly ? " he said, taking her little hand
in his and patting it. '' Say thou forgives
me.

But — but you don't believe me," sobbed
Polly.

*' But I do," he said, kissing her little hand
in a quiet, reverential way that ill accorded
with his looks. " Say thou forgives me, lass."

"I do forgive you, Jock," she said, wiping
her eyes. " Now let's call dear Tom in and
tel him all."

'* Nay," said Jock, " he mustn't be told.
He's troubled enough as it is. I'll mak' it
right."

'* No, no, Jock," cried Polly, with her cheeks
turning like ashes.

What, are you afraid I shall drownd
him ? " he said, sharply.

Yes ! Oh, it is so horrible ! "
V " Nay, I weaned drownd him if he'll keep
away," said Jock, fiercely, " bat I'll lev a
word wi' him when he least expects it."

"I I thought," faltered Polly, "that
when he was married he would keep away."

Nay, not he," growled Jock ; " but I
haven't done wi' him and his yet."

But, Jock ! "

Get me some bread and cheese, lass," he
growled, and she rose in a timid way, and
gazing at him fearfully, spread a cloth, and
placed the food before him.

"Now go and bathe thy pretty eyes," he
said, as he sat down ; "but stay a moment,
lass."

He took both her hands in his, and drew
her to him, and kissed her forehead.

I beg thy pardon, Polly," he said once
again ; " and now go, and I promise that he
shall never trouble thee again."

But, Jock ! "

How thy tongue, lass. I weaned drown
him, but if I don't scar him from this lane
my name's not Jock."

Polly left the kitchen, and the great fellow
sat there eating heartily for a time, and then
Polly came back.

Sometimes lass," he said, " I think thou

ouo'lit to lev told Tom all ; sometimes I
don't. Wait a bit till that Serrol Mallow's
gone again, and then tell him all. Hah ! he's
a nice 'un, and his brother too. They're
gentlemen, they are. I'm only a rough shack.
It mak's me laugh though, Polly, it do. I
don't work, they say. Well, I don't see as they
do, and as owt Bone used to mak' us read at
school, nobody can't say as Jock Morrison,
bad as he is, ever goes neighing after his
neighbour's wife. Their lass, their lass, it's all
put a\yay, and I'm down glad as I was wrong."
And you will frighten him away, Jock?" said
Polly, who looked very bright and pretty now.

That I will, Polly," said the great fellow,
draining his mug ; '*' and, my lass, I don't
know but what Tom's right to battle down wi'
such a pretty little lass as thou. Mebbe I
shall be doing something of the sort myself.
Good-bye, lass, good-bye."

'when — when shall we see you again?"
said Polly, in a timid way.

Don't know, my lass, but I may be close
at hand when no one sees me. I'm a cururS,
hiding sort of a fellow. Their, good-bye."

VOL. III. E

He stooped and left the house, and Polly
saw him go towards the workshop, stop talking
for a few minutes, and then go slowly rolling
alone: the lane.

I'm afraid Jock's after no good, Polly, my
little woman," said Tom quietly that night.
Ah, well, there's worse fellows than he."

I like Jock better than ever I liked him
before," cried Polly, with animation.

I wish you could like him into a better
life," said Tom, thoughtfully. "I wonder
where the poor old chap has gone."

On a mission of his own. That very afternoon
Cynthia had tempted her sister out of
the solitude she so much affected now, by
proposing a ride ; for Lord Artingale had sent
the horses over with a note saying that he
had been called away to the county town, but
would come over in the evening.

Julia took some pressing, but she agreed
at last, the horses were brought round, and
soon after the sisters mounted, and were cantering
along the pleasant sandy lanes, followed
some j&fty yards or so behind by a well-mounted
groom.

The sun shone brightly, and there was a
deliciously fresh breeze, just sufficient to make
the exercise enjoyable. The swift motion,
with the breeze fanning her face, seemed to
brighten Julia's eyes and send a flush into her
cheeks, as they cantered on, Cynthia being full
of merry remarks, and gladly noticing her
sister's change.

Oh, if she would only pluck up a little
spirit," thought Cynthia ; and then she began
to wonder whether Artingale would bring over
Magnus.

Then she began to make plans as to how
she would bring them together, and leave
them pretty often alone.

One way and another, as they rode on and
on. Miss Cynthia mentally proved herself a
very female Von Moltke in the art of warfare,
and so wrapt was she in her thoughts, that
she paid no heed to the fidgeting of the
beautiful creature she was riding.

Isn't your mare very tiresome, Cynthia ? "
said Julia.

Only fresh, dear ; I don't mind," was the
reply. '' I can manage her."

E 2

They were now in one of the winding, hilly
lanes running through a series of the shows
or little woods common in that part of the
country, and intersected by narrow rides for
the convenience of the shooting parties and
those who hunt. Everything looked very
beautiful, and with her troubled breast feeling
more at rest than it had for weeks, Julia was
really enjoying her ride.

Why, this is what we ought often to do,"
thought Cynthia. " Quiet, mare ! Julia seems
to feel safe from the ogre now she is well
mounted. How pretty she looks I "

Julia certainly did look very beautiful just
then, though she might have reciprocated the
compliment. Her dark blue habit fitted her
to perfection, her little glossy riding-hat was
daintily poised upon her well shaped head, and
she rode her mare gracefully and well.

Shall I take up a link or two of her curb,
ma'am ? " said the groom, cantering up, as
Mad Sal seemed to be growling excited.

Oh no, Thomas ; she'll quiet down. It
would only make her more fidgety. I'll give
her a gallop."

If she had not decided to give it, Mad Sal
would have taken it ; for as she spoke and
loosened her rein, the graceful creature sprang
off at a gallop, and after a few strides began to
go like the wind.

Oh, Thomas, Thomas," cried Julia ;
'' gallop ! "

Don't you be frightened, Miss," said the
groom, smiling. '' Miss Cynthia won't hurt.
I never see a lady as could go like her. Shall
I gallop after her, miss ? "

^' Yes, yes, quickly," cried Julia, excitedly ;
and, knowing the country, the groom turned
his horse's head, put him at and leaped a low
hedge into a field between two patches of
coppice, and went off hunting fashion, to cutoff
a long corner round which he knew his
young charge would go.

Julia hesitated about following, and then
kept on at an easy canter along the road,
following her sister's steps, till suddenly she
turned ghastly pale, as, about fifty yards in
front, she saw a man force his way through
the low hedge, and then, evidently hot and
panting with a long run, come towards her.

She had but to lash het mare and dash by
him. She could have turned and cantered ois
with ease. But she did neither, merely sitting
paralyzed, as it were, with her eyes fixed upon
the great dark-bearded fellow, who came boldly
up, laid his hand upon the rein, and the mare
stopped short.

Why, my beauty," he said, in a low deep
voice, as he passed his arm through the rein,
and placed his great hands upon the trembling
girl's waist, " I thought I was never going to
see you again."

Julia did not answer, though her lips parted
as if to utter a cry.

There," he said, " don't look frightened. I
wouldn't hurt you for the world. I've got you
safe, and the mare too. I don't know which
is the prettiest. There, you're all right ; they
won't be back this half-hour. I've got you
safe ; jump ! "

As he spoke he lifted her out of the saddle,
and the next moment she was clasped tight in
the fellow's arms— the dove quite at the mercy
of the hawk.

CHAPTER X.

AT Kirby.

Winter came in early that year, but none
the less fiercely. Cyril and his young wife
stayed on, Sage eagerly agreeing to her aunt's
proposal that the visit should he prolonged,
and consequently the rabbits on the farm had
a very hard time, especially when the snow
came, and their footprints could be tracked
with ease.

John Berry brought his young wife and
children, to the great delight of the Churchwarden,
of whom they made a perfect slave,
for he was never weary of petting them.
Lord Artingale came over once, and won
golden opinions of Mrs. Portlock by what she
called his condescension ; and as to his nominee
at the next election, the Churchwarden was

ready to support him through thick and thin
for the interest he took in Eue Berry's little
children.

Harry Artingale was not the only gentleman
visitor who found his way to the farm,
for Frank Mallow came one evening soon
after the Berry s had arrived, and that night,
when Sage had gone up with her sister to her
room, Eue suddenly burst into a hysterical fit
of weeping.

'* Why, Rue, darling," exclaimed her sister,
what is it ? "

Nothing, nothing at all," she cried hastily,
wiping her eyes and cheering up. " Only one
of my foolish fits, Sageyy. There, there, goodnight."


But you are ill," said Sage, anxiously.

"Ill, dear ? No ; it is only a little hysterical
feeling that I have sometimes," and wishing
her sister good night in the most affectionate
manner. Sage left her bending over the little
bedstead where her children slept, and as Sage
closed the door she saw Rue sinking down
upon her knees.

It was not a pleasant time, for Cyril had

grown short and sulky whenever Frank came,
and seeing this, Frank laughed, and became
unpleasantly attentive to his brother's young
wife.

If he won t be polite to you. Sage, I will,"
he cried. " I want you to have pleasant
memories of me when I am gone."

But are you going soon ? " she asked.

"" Oh, yes, I shall go soon," he replied ;
I'm tired of this narrow country. Ah,
Portlock, you should come with me."

No, no," exclaimed Mrs. Portlock, excitedly.
My husband could not think of such a
thing."

The Churchwarden, who was puffing away
at his pipe when this was said, gave Frank
Mallow a peculiar look, to which that gentleman
nodded and stroked his dark beard.

Well, I don't know, mother," he said ;
farming's getting very bad here, and those
who emigrate seem to do very well."

Oh, no, Joseph ; I don't believe they do,"
cried Mrs. Portlock, plaiting away at her
apron, so as to produce the effect since become
fashionable under the name of kilting.

'' Why, look at young Luke Ross," said the
Churchwarden ; " he's emigrated to London,
and they say getting on wonderful."

Home's quite good enough for me, Joseph,"
said Mrs. Portlock, '' and I wouldn't go on any
consideration."

Frank Mallow took up the ball here, but the
Churchwarden saw that Sage had turned pale
and was bending over her work, so he stopped,
and Frank went on painting the pictures of
Australian life in the most hio^hlv-coloured
style.

This visit became an extremely painful one
to Sage, for, to Cyril's great annoyance, Frank
came more and more, bantering his brother on
his ill-humour, taking not the slightest notice
of Mrs. Berry, who had turned very cold and
reserved to him now, and evidently trying to
pique her by his attentions to Sage.

The latter began to look upon him with
horror, and dreaded Cyril's absences, which
were very frequent, there always being something
to shoot over at Gatley, or a trip to
make somewhere ; and at last it became almost
a matter of course, as soon as Cyril had gone,

for Frank to come sauntering in to have a
chat with the Churchwarden upon sheep.

As a rule the Churchwarden would be
absent, and Mrs. Portlock would begin to
exert herself to make the visitor's stay comfortable,
always contriving a little whispered
conversation with him in the course of his
visit, and begging him not to induce Port-lock
to emigrate. For it would be such a
pity at his age, she whispered. And then, as
soon as he got free, he would begin chatting
to Sage, who sat there afraid to seem cold,
but all the time being ill at ease, for a
horrible suspicion had come over her, and fight
against it how she would, she could not drive
it away.

A great change had come over Eue, and it
seemed to Sage so horrible, that she reproached
herself for harbouring the idea that her sister's
affection had come back for her old lover ; that
he was trying all he could to win her from her
duty as a wife and mother ; and that she. Sage,
was being used as a blind to hide the real
state of the case from her aunt and uncle.
As for John Berry, there was no need to try

and blind him, for in his simple, honest
fashion he had the fondest trust in his wife ;
and if any one had hinted that she was falling
away from him, if it had been a man, he would
have struck him down.

A fortnight passed, and the frost still lasted.
The Churchwarden, in his genial hospitality,
said that it was a glorious time, but to Sage
it was one of intense mental pain. Cyril had
gone back to London, but was to come back
and fetch her ; but even if he had been there,
Sage would have shrunk from speaking to
him, seeing what a horrible accusation she
would be making against her own sister and
his brother ; and she shrank from it the more
from a dread of saying or doing anything to
estrange Cyril, who had certainly been of late
colder than his wont.

^' Should she tell julia ? "

No, she seemed ill, and to avoid her now,
and Sage was too proud to attempt to force
herself upon her sister-in-law if she wished to
keep away.

Tt was a terrible time for her, as she realized
more and more, from various little things

she saw, that Frank Mallow had, from old
associations, regained his old power over Rue,
and to her horror she felt certain that they
had had stolen interviews.

What should she do ? " she asked herself ;
and now she wished that Cyril was back, for
suddenly, just as Sage was praying that John
Berry would make up his mind to go home,
he announced his intention of going alone.

It's bitter cold there after the place has
been shut up, Churchwarden, and if thou does
not mind I'll leave Rue and the little ones,
and come over and fetch them in about a
week's time."

Frank glanced at Sage, mind their eyes met,
sending a thrill of horror through the latter,
as she felt more and more sure that her sister
was growing weaker ; and Sage closed her eyes,
and bitterly reproached her husband for leaving
her alone at such a time.

She formed a dozen plans, but rejected them
all, and tried to invent others. She felt that
she could not speak to her uncle and aunt ;
she dared not accuse her sister, for she was
not sure, and hour after hour she was praying

that she might have been deceived ; but all
the same she felt bound to act, and finally she
determined that she would never leave Rue
alone when Frank Mallow was in the house.

Sage's plan was good, but she could not
keep to it ; and one day, as she was about to
enter the dining-room, where she had left her
sister alone for a few moments, she heard her
say, in a piteous voice —

Oh, Frank, spare me ! I cannot — I dare
not ! "

"It is too late now," he said. 'all is
arranged. You must ! "

Sage did not enter the room, but stood there
trembling as she heard her aunt go in by the
farther door, and begin chattering to them
both ; but, with her blood seeming to run cold,
she hurried up to her own room, and threw
herself on her knees to pray for strength and
wisdom at this crisis.

If she told her uncle or her aunt, the consequences
seemed to be terrible. If she spoke
to Rue, she foresaw that her sister would deny
all.

She now determined what to do. She

would attack Frank himself, and insist upon
his leaving the house at once, never to return ;
but on going down to put her plan into effect,
she found that he was gone, and he did not
return.

To her surprise, Rue seemed to have grown
calmer now, and as the evening wore on she was
almost cheerful, as if a load was off her mind.

Her equanimity almost disarmed Sage, and
about eight o'clock, as they were sitting with
their aunt and uncle, listening to the roaring
of the wind, the precursor of a snow-storm.
Sage sat quite still as her sister rose and said
that she wanted to go up and see if the children
were asleep.

Taking a candle, Rue lit it, and her face
seemed very bright as she stood for a moment
looking at the little party in the room.

Let me see," said the Churchwarden ; '' I
forgot to tell you, my dear. I saw the parson
this afternoon. He had had a letter from
Cyril."

'' From Cyril ? " cried Sage, eagerly.

Yes, my dear ; and he said it was just
possible that he might be down to-night."

'' And he did not write and tell me," thought
Sage, as her sister left the room.

"It will be a roarer to-night," said the
Churchwarden, as the wind howled in the
broad chimney, and the soft dull patting noise
of falling flakes could be heard upon the
window-panes. " Shouldn't wonder if we had
a power o' snow."

"And he did not write and say he was
coming," thought Sage again, as a curious
pang seemed to be followed by a dull aching
in her breast.

"Ah!" continued the Churchwarden, tapping
his pipe on the great dog-irons, and meditatively
putting the burning wood together
with his boot, ''I thought it was coming,
mother. We shall be snowed up safe. If
Cyril Mallow is under a good roof anywhere,
he'll stay there for the night, if he's got the
brains I give him the credit for."

Just then a curious wailing noise made by
the wind fell upon Sage's ear, and it seemed to
her as if she had received a sudden shock, for
from old associations with this her youthful
home she knew what caused that sound —

the side door had been opened and softly
closed.

Sage sat there for a few moments motionless,
and felt as if turned to stone, for she
knew, as surely as if she had seen it all, that
her sister had opened that door and had
gone to join Frank Mallow somewhere close
at hand.

The terrible nightmare-like feeling passed
off as quickly as it had come, and, how she
hardly knew, Sage left the room, went straight
to the side door, catching down her hat and
cloak from the pegs, and passed out into the
bitter night.

The wind nearly snatched the cloak from
her as she flung it on, and then ran along the
path towards the lane, for there were fresh
footprints in the newly-fallen snow ; and so
quickly did she run that at the end of ten
minutes she was within sight of a dark figure
hurrying on before her with bended head, and
the driving snow rapidly making it invisible
as it hurried on.

The storm was rapidly increasing, and the
wind and drifting snow confused her ; Out she

VOL. III. * F

ran on now, and with a despairing cry flung
her arms round the figure, crying —

Kue — sister ! Where are you going ? Oh,
for heaven's sake, stop ! "

Sage ! " she cried, hoarsely, and she
struggled to free herself; but Sage clung to
her tightly, and she stumbled, slipping on the
hard ground beneath the snow, and sinking to
her knees.

Sage knelt beside her upon the snow, and,
clasping her waist, she sobbed —

Yes, yes, upon your knees, Eue — sister,
pray, pray with me — for strength. God hear
our cry, and save my sister from this sin ! "

For a few moments, as she heard the
passionate cry, Kue knelt there trembling, but
she began to struggle again.

Don't stop me. It is too late now. I
cannot help it, Sage ; I must go."

'you shall not go. I know all. He has
tempted you to do this wrong, and you are
mad ; but think — for God's sake, think. It
will break John's heart."

"Oh, hush, hush !" Rue cried, with a shiver.
Hush, hush ! I must eo now ! "

You shall not ; I will never leave you.
Rue, dear, there are two little children lying
there in their bed, silently calling you to come
to them and avoid this sin. Sister — mother —
wife, will you leave them for that cruel, reckless
man ? "

'' Oh, hush ! " cried Rue, struggling with her
fiercely. " You do not know. You cannot
tell. He's waiting for me, and I must — I will
go."

"Never while I have breath," Sage panted,
and then she uttered a shriek of affright, for
Rue made an effort to escape her, running for
some distance, and then falling heavily in the
snow.

This was her last struggle, for as Sage overtook
her, the weak woman rose, and, trembling
and moaning to herself, she allowed her sister
to lead her back towards the farm.

How Sage managed to get her sister along
she never afterwards knew, but by degrees she
did, and up to her room unheard, hiding away
all traces of the snowy cloaks and boots before
summoning Mrs. Portlock to her help, for as
soon as Rue reached the bedroom she threw

F 2

herself upon her knees by her sleeping children,
moaning, sobbing, speaking incoherently, and
passing from one terrible hysterical fit into
another that seemed worse.

Go and tell uncle she's better now," said
Mrs. Portlock, at last ; '' I can hear him
walking up and down like a wild beast.
There, there, now, my child," she said soothingly
to Rue, " try and be calm."

Sag-e went down to find the Churchwarden

o

buttoned up and with the old horn lanthorn
lit, ready to walk over to the town and fetch
Doctor Vinnicombe.

I'm afraid it's no use to put a horse to,
my dear," he said ; '' the snow's drifting tremendously."


'* I don't think you need go, uncle," said
Sage, and here she stopped short and clung
to him, for there was a sharp knocking at the
front door, and in her confused, excited state
Sage's heart sank, for she felt that it was
Frank Mallow grown impatient, and come to
insist upon Rue keeping her word.

"There, there, my pretty, don't you turn
silly too," said the Churchwarden. " Bv

jingo, what a night ! " he cried, as the outer
door was opened, and a rush of snow-laden
wind swept into the hall and dashed open the
big parlour door.

The sound of a rough voice gave Sage
relief, for it was John Berry who had arrived.

The relief was but momentary, for Sage's
conscience said that the husband had gained
some inkling of the intended flight, and had
come to stop it.

Just then the broad-shouldered, red-faced
farmer entered the room.

How are ye ? " he cried in a bluff tone
that set Sage's heart at rest for the moment.
I scarcely thought the mare would have
got me through it," he continued. " It's a
strange rough night, master, and if you've
any sheep out, I'd have 'em seen to. Eh ?
what ? My darling ill ? " he cried, as he heard
the Churchwarden's announcement. " Then
thank the Lord I did come."

No, no ; don't go to her now," panted
Sage, as John Berry took off his coat and
threw it out into the hall.

Not go up to .her ? Nay, lass, that I

will," he cried, and Sage followed him
up-stairs.

Why, Rue, my lass," he cried, tenderly,
what's wrong wi' you ? "

At the sound of his voice Rue started from
the bed. and flung herself into his arms.

"Jack, Jack!" she cried, "take me — hold
me — husband, dear. God have mercy on me !
I must be mad."

Sage stayed with them in obedience to a
sign from John Berry, and stood there trembling
as she saw her sister's fair brown hair
tumbled upon her husband's breast, to which
she clung in an agony of remorse.

Over and over again Rue kept raising
her head, though to gaze piteously at her
sister, and then hide her face again.

A couple of hours went on like this, but
when at last Sage found her opportunity, and
clasping her sister to her breast, whispered —

Rue, may I trust you now ? "

Yes, oh, yes," she sobbed. " I pray God
I may never see his face again."

Then that is our secret. Rue," Sage whispered.
" It is for ever buried in our breasts."

She left them after some hours, Rue lying
upon the bed, sobbing at times, and seemingly
asleep, while John Berry sat beside her,
holding her little white hands.

Sage went down softly, but began to
tremble as she heard voices in the room ; but
summoning up her courage, she entered, to
find Morrison, the wheelwright, standing
there, with the Churchwarden placing a glass
of hot spirits and water in his hand.

Go back, go back, my darling," cried Mrs.
Portlock, excitedly.

No, no, my dear," said the Churchwarden,
firmly ; '' Sage is no coward, and she must
know. My darling, try and be firm, and
hope for the best. The cart will be here
directly, and we're going to force our way
through and bring him in. Yes, there it
comes."

What— what is it ? " panted Sage. " Isis
Frank "

Oh, pray be silent, Joseph," sobbed Mrs.
Portlock.

Why ? " said the Churchwarden, firmly.
^' She must know the worst. Get hot water

and blankets ready, my dear, and we'll soon
bring him round. Come, Morrison," and
hurrying out, the door was pushed to, forcing
back with it a quantity of the soft white
snow.

For heaven's sake tell me, aunt ! " sobbed
Sage.

But am I to ? " said the old lady, trembling:
before her niece.

Yes, yes," cried Sage. '' I must know.
Is he dead ? "

"No, no, my darling," said Mrs. Portlock,
piteously. " Tom Morrison was going home,
but he could not get round by the ford. The
cutting in Low Lane was full, so he came
round our way; and — oh, dear me! oh,
dear me ! "

For heaven's sake, aunt, go on," cried
Sage, half fiercely now.

Yes, my darling," sobbed Mrs. Portlock ;
and they'll be here directly, I hope and
pray. And he came upon Cyril."

Cyril !" shrieked Sage.

Lying buried in the snow, just at the
corner where he fought Luke Eoss."

Sage stood gazing at her with a blank whiteface,
shivering violently as her aunt went on
in a voice choked with tears.

Tom Morrison tried to carry him on here,
but he could not get him through the snow,
so he came for help, and — heaven be thanked,
here they are ! "

The room seemed to swim round Sage as
she heard the sound of voices above the
roaring of the wind, and going with her aunt
and the two affrighted servants to the door,
they stood their ground in spite of the beating
and driving snow, till a stiffened white figure
was borne into the great parlour and laid
before the fire, the Churchwarden giving orders
in all directions.

We could never get Vinnicombe across
to-night, so we must bring him round ourselves.
Quick, every one. , Hot blankets, and
let's get these snowy things away. Why in
God's name don't some one shut that door ? '
he roared, as the wind and snow followed them
into the room, making the fire roar furiously
and the sparks stream up.

Don't be coldhearted," cried the Churchwarden,

setting the example, as John Berry
came in to see what was the matter.

Hey, and what is it ? " he said, laying his
hand upon the wheelwright's arm.

Mr. Cyril Mallow, Master Berry ; we
found him in the snow."

It was just as Sage's heart gave a great
bound of relief, for as the mist cleared from
her eyes and the giddiness passed away, she
found herself kneeling beside her husband's
brother, frozen stiff where he had been waiting
for hours at the try sting-place. And as Sage
gazed with a strange feeling of awe at the
stern white features set in death, the Churchwarden
said softly, " Nay, Morrison, thought
wrong, my lad ; it is Mr. Frank. He must
have been coming here."

CHAPTER XI.

lovers' words.

Time flies.

Not an original remark this, but perfectly
true.

Decorous mourning had been worn for Frank
Mallow, the invalid mother had grown more
grey, and the lines in her forehead deeper,
while as the Rector thought of the fate of his
firstborn, and shut his ears to little bits of
scandal that floated about, he sighed, and
turned more and more to his daughters, for
Cyril, fortunately for himself, had quite forsaken
Lawford since his brother's death, having
troubles of his own to contend with, while his
wife had hers.

Rue Berry's adventure remained a secret

between the sisters, and though at the weekly
meetings at the King's Head there were a
good many nods and shakes of the head as
to the reason why, on the night of his death,
Frank Mallow had engaged a fly and pair of
horses, such matter was never openly discussed,
Tomlinson sagely remarking that when
a man died there was a thick black mark
ruled across the page of his ledger, and it was
not worth while to tot up an account that
there was no one to pay.

Then, as time went on, the inquest was forgotten,
and the tablet placed in the church by
the Rector, sacred to the memory of Frank,
the beloved son, etcetera, etcetera, only excited
notice during one weekly meeting, when
Fullerton wondered what had become of the
fortune Frank Mallow had made in Australia.

His fellow-tradesmen wondered, and so did
Cyril Mallow to such an extent that he
borrowed a hundred pounds from Portlock the
churchwarden to pay for investigations and
obtain the money.

Seed corn, mother," said Portlock, grimly ;
'' seed corn for Cyril Mallow to sow ; but hang

me, old lady, if I believe it will ever come to
a crop."

As soon as possible after the terrible shock
Mrs. Mallow had received, the Rector took her
abroad, and for eight months they were staying
at various German baths, changing from place
to place, the Rector now and then — handsome,
grey-bearded, and the very beau ideal of an
English clergyman — drawing large congregations
when he occupied the pulpit of the
chaplain at some foreign watering-place.

It was a pleasant time of calm for him, and
he sighed as he thought of returning to
England ; but this return was fast approaching
for many reasons. One reason was the Bishop.
Certainly the Eev. Lawrence Paulby was
indefatigable with the business of the church,
but the Bishop seemed to agree in spirit with
the meeting at the King's Head, that it was
not quite right for one clergyman to draw
fifteen hundred a year from a parish and not
do the duty, while another clergyman only
drew ninety pounds a year and did do the
duty, and did it well.

Another reason was, both Lord Artingale

and Perry-Morton had been over again and
again, and after a decent interval had pressed
hard for their marriages to take place.

The last visit had been to a popular place of
resort, where poor Mrs. Mallow was, by the
advice of the German physician, undergoing
a process of being turned into an aqueous
solution ; at least she was saturated daily with
an exceedingly nauseous water, and soaked in
it hot for so many hours per week as well.
The same great authority recommended it
strongly for Julia, who drank the waters daily
to the sound of a band. He also advised that
the Fraulein Cynthia should take a lesser
quantity daily also, to the strains of the
German band, at intervals of promenading ;
but Cynthia merely took one sip and made a
pretty grimace, writing word afterwards that
the " stuff" was so bad that if the servants at
home had been asked to use it to wash their
hands there would have been a revolt.

There were other reasons too for calling
back the Rev. Eli Mallow, and he sighed, for
it was very pleasant abroad, and he foresaw
trouble upon his return — parish trouble, the

worry of the weddings, contact with Cyril,
with whom he had quarrelled bitterly by
letter, refusing to furnish him with money, a
fact which came hard upon Churchwarden
Portlock, who bore it like a martyr, and
smoked more pipes as, for some strange reason,
he raked up and dwelt strongly upon every
scrap of information he could obtain about the
progress of Luke Ross in London, even going
over to the market-place occasionally to have
a pipe and a chat with old Michael his father.

There was no help for it, and at last the
luggage was duly packed, and after poor Mrs.
Mallow had been carefully carried down, the
family started for home, and settled for the
time being in one of a handsome row of houses
north of the park.

Yes, my dear, it is — very expensive,"
said the Rector, in answer to a remark, almost
a remonstrance, from the invalid ; *' but we must
keep up appearances till the girls are married.
Then, my dear, we shall be alone, and we will
go down to the old home, and there will be
nothing to interfere with our quiet, peaceful
journey to the end."

Mrs. Mallow turned her soft pensive eyes upto
him as he leaned over the couch, and he
bent down and kissed her tenderly.

"Wei], my darling, who can say?" he
whispered. " If more trouble comes, it is our
fate, and we will try and bear the burden as
best we can."

But you will go down now and then to
Lawford, Eli ? " she said, and the Eector sighed.

'* Yes, my dear, I will," he said ; '^ but at
present we must stay in town." And he
placed his hands behind him and walked up
and down the room, wishing that he could
understand the Lawford people, or that they
could understand him, and looking forward
with anything but pleasurable anticipations to
his next visit.

Just then Julia, looking very pale and
dreamy in her half-mourning, entered the
room, to come and sit with and read to the
invalid, a visitor being below, and her presence
not being in any way missed.

Henry, Lord Artingale was the visitor, and
as soon as she had left the room Julia became
one of the principal topics, for she had seemed

of late to have fallen into a dreamy state,
now indifferent, now reckless, and Cynthia
declared pettishly that she gave her sister up
in despair.

I don't know what to make of her,
Harry," said Cynthia one morning after they
had been back in town some time ; '' one day
she will be bright and cheerful, another she
seems as if she were going melancholy mad."

Oh, no ; come, that's exaggeration, little
one."

It is not," cried Cynthia, " for she is wonderfully
changed when we are together."

How changed ? Why, she looks prettier
than ever."

I mean in her ways," continued Cynthia.
We used to be sisters indeed, and never kept
anything from one another. Why, Harry, I
don't believe either of us had a thought that
the other did not share, and now I seem to be
completely shut out from her confidence ; and
if it were not for you, I believe I should
break my heart."

Of course Harry Artingale behaved as a
manly handsome young fellow should behave

VOL. III. G

under such circumstances. He comforted and
condoled with the afflicted girl, who certainly
did not look in the slightest degree likely to
break her heart. He offered his manly bosom
for her to rest her weary head, and he removed
the little pearly tears from under the pretty
fringed lids of her large bright eyes. There were
four of them — tears, not eyes — and Harry wiped
them away without a pocket-handkerchief, the
remains of one damaged tear remaining on
his moustache when the process was over, and
poor little Cynthia seemed much better.

*' Well," said Artingale, "there is one comfort,
Cynthy : we did scare away the big
bogey. She has not seen him any more ? "

*' No — no ! " said Cynthia softly, " I suppose
not. She has never said anything about him
since we were at Hastings. I have fancied
sometimes that she has seen him and been
frightened ; but she never mentions it, and I
have always thought it best never to say
a word."

Oh, yes, far the best," said Artingale, who
was examining Cynthia's curly hair with as
much interest as if it was something he saw

now for the first time. "Didn't you say,
though, that you thought she saw him that
day the mare bolted with you % "

Nonsense ! she did not bolt with me,
Harry. Just as if I should let a mare bolt
with me. Something startled her, and she
leaped the hedge, and as we were off the road,
and it was a chance for a gallop, I let her go
across country. But you know ; I told you."

Yes, dear," said Artingale, one of whose
fingers was caught in a sunny maze. " But
now, Cynthy, my pet, revenons a nos moidofis,''

"Very well, sir," she said shyly, ''revenons
d nos mouton

So the wedding is to be on the fourth ? "

"Yes," said Cynthia, with a sigh, "on the
fourth — not quite a month, Harry. Where's
James Magnus ? "

Shut up in his studio, splashing the paint
iibout like a madman. He never comes out
hardly. He has cut me, and spends most of
his time with that barrister fellow who was to
have married Sage Portlock."

Luke Eoss ! Oh ! Are they friends ? "

Thick as thieves," said Artingale. " I

G 2

suppose they sit and talk about disappointed
love, and that sort of thing."

Do they ? " cried Cynthia.

Oh, I don't know, of course. By Jove,
though, Cynthy, that Eoss is a splendid fellow ;
no one would ever have thought he was only
a tanner's son."

I don't see what difference it makes whose
son a man is," said Cynthia, demurely. '' I've
always noticed though that poor people's sons
are very clever, and noblemen's sons very
stupid."

Horribly," said Artingale, laughing.
Why, you saucy little puss ! "

Matters here not necessary for publication.

I don't want to say unkind things," said
Cynthia, pouting now, " but I'm sure poor
Sage Portlock would have been a great deal
wiser if she had married Luke Ross ; and if
you were in your right senses, Harry, you
would never think of marrying into such an
unhappy family as ours."

'' Oh, but then I've been out of my mind
for long enough, Cynthy. The wise ones said
I ran mad after the Eector's little daughter."

^'When you might have made a most
brilliant match or two, I heard," cried
Cynthia.

Yes, 23et, all right' he said, laughing ;
^' but you're in for it. I won't be pitched
over''

"I'm sure the state of Cyril's home is
disgraceful."

I dare say, my darling ; but we are not
going to live there."

Don't be so stupid," cried Cynthia. " But
tell me, Harry, has James Magnus cut you ? "

No. Oh, no ; only I am so much away
now that instead of being regular chums we
don't often meet. Hah ! what jolly times I
used to have with him, to be sure ! "

I hate him," cried Cynthia, angrily. *' He's
a great stupid coward."

No, you don't, Cynthy ; and you don't
think he is a coward."

Well, perhaps I don't hate him very much,
and perhaps I don't think him a very great
coward ; but, oh ! Harry, if I had been a
man, do you think I would have allowed that
miserable — miserable "

*' Design for a wall-paper or fresco ? " suggested
Artingale.

"Yes, yes, yes," cried Cynthia, laughing
and clapping her hands with childlike delight.
That's it : what a grand idea ! Oh, Harry,
how clever you are ! "

She looked up at him admiringly, and he

smiled, and Well, of course, that was

sure to follow. Young lovers are so very
foolish, and it came natural to them to
tangle one another up in their arms, and for
Cynthia's nose to be hidden by Artingale's
moustache.

Then they grew sage, as the French call it
once more, and Artingale spoke — •

That's right, little pet, think so if you

can ; but I wish, for your sake, I were "

Were what, sir ? "

Clever. Do you know, Cynthy, I often
think what a good job it was that nature had
the property valued before I was launched."

Why, you dear stupid old boy, what do
you mean ? "

What I say, pet : had me valued. Then
he said, 'Well, he's got no brains, and he'll

never do any good for himself if he is left
alone ; so TU make him a lord and give him
an income.' "

Oh, Harry, what nonsense ! "

"And then, to help me on a bit farther
when I had grown to years of indiscretion, she
gave me, or is about to give me, the dearest
and best and sweetest and most beautiful of
little women to be my wife."

Which was, of course, very stupid again ;
and more resulted, after which Artingale said
quietly —

Cynthy, dear, you believe in me thoroughly
? "

*' Thoroughly, Harry."

You know I love you with all my heart ? "

Yes, Harry," she replied, with her hands
in his.

Then you will not think me strange if I
say to you I don't want to be married yet ? "

iST — no," said Cynthia, with just a suspicion
of hesitation.

Then I'm going to speak out plainly,
darling. I'm stupid in some things, but I'm
as sharp as a needle concerning anything

about you, and I couldn't help seeing that the
Eector and mamma thought that our wedding
might take place at the same time as
Julia's."

Ye — es," faltered Cynthia.

Well, then," said Artingale, '' I would
rather for several reasons it did not."

He waited for a few moments, but Cynthia
did not speak.

Tm not going to talk nonsense about
being like brothers," he continued, " and
loving James Magnus ; but, Cynthy, dear, I
never yet met a man whom I liked half so
well, and — and I'd do anything for poor old
Jemmy. Well," he continued, 'for one thing,
it seems horrible to me to make that the happiest
day of my life which will be like that
which kills his last hope."

Cynthia did not speak, but nestled closely
to him.

Then it gives me a sensation like having a
cold douche to think of going up the church
with that fellow, for I know he'll be dressed
up like a figure in an old picture, with his
sisters and friends like so many animated 

in an idyllic procession attending
the funeral of a fay"*

''I say, Harry," cried Cynthia, 'that's not
your language, sir. Where did you pick it up?"

*' Oh, out of Perry-Morton's new poems, ashe
called them. 'Pon my word, you know, I
should feel as if it was a sort of theatrical
performance. Ob, Cynthy, I should like to
have you in white, and take you by the
hand, and walk into some out-of-the-way little
church in the country, where there was a nice,
pleasant old parson, who'd read the service
and say God bless us both ; and then for us to
go away — right away, where all was green
fields and flowers, and birds singing, and all
the confounded nonsense and fuss and foolery
of a fashionable wedding was out of my sight ;
and Cynthy, darling, let's make a runaway
match of it, and go and be married
tomorrow — to-day — now ; or let's wait till
poor Julia has been sold. There, pet, hang it
all ! it makes me wild."

He jumped up and began to pace the room,
and Cynthia went up to him and put her arm
through his.

"Harry, dear," she said softly, "you've
made me very happy by what you have
told me. Let's wait, dear. I should not like
to be married then. I should like — should
like — " she faltered, with her pretty little
face burning — "our wedding to be all happiness
and joy ; and on the day when Julia
is married to Perry Morton, I shall cry ready
to break my heart."

CHAPTER XII.

LAMBENT LOVE.

A CERTAIN small world, of which Mr. Perry-morton
was one of the shining lights, was
deeply agitated, moved to its very volcanic
centre, and gave vent to spasmodic utterances
respecting the approaching marriage of their
apostle to Julia, eldest daughter of the Rev.
Eli Mallow, Rector of Lawford. There were no
less than four paragraphs in as many papers
concerning the bride's parure and trousseau,
and the presents she was receiving.

But I thought it would have excited
more notice," said the Rev. Eli, mildly, after
a discussion with the invalid, wherein he had
firmly maintained his intention not to invite
Cyril and his wife to the wedding.

The papers devoted to art gave a description
of the interior of Mr. Perry-Morton's new
mansion in Westminster, and dwelt at great
length upon the artistic finishing, and the
additions being made of art tapestry, carpets,
and curtains manufactured by the well-known
firm of Gimpsley and. Tough, from the
designs of Smiles, A.E.A., and the wealthy
bridegroom himself. The golden beetle conventionally
treated was the leading motif in
all the designs, and a yellow silk of a special
orange-golden hue had been prepared for the
purpose, the aniline dye being furnished by
Judd, Son and Company. The carpets were
so designed that on at-home nights the guests
would be standing in the midst of gorgeous
bugs, as an American friend termed them
beetles whose wings seemed to be moving
beneath the feet of those who trod thereon.
But the great feature of the salon was the
central ottoman, which was a conventional
rendering of a bank of flowers supporting
golden beetles, amidst which were a few places
upon which the so-inclined might rest and
fancy the insects were alive.

Columns of chat were written in praise
of Perry Morton and this place, and copies
of the papers in which they were, somehow
found their way into a great many houses
through the length and breadth of the land.

There was only one drawback to the joys
of the stained-glass sisters, as they showed
their friends through the house, and posed
in graceful attitudes all over the carpets and
against the hangings, in whose folds they
almost wrapped themselves in their sweetly
innocent delight — there was only one drawback,
and that was, that another season was
gliding by, and they were still on the matrimonial
house-agents' books — these two eligible
artistic cottages ornees to let.

Stay : there was another drawback. When
dear Perry was married they would have
to go, for unless dearest Julia pressed them
very, very much indeed to continue their
residence there, of course they could not stay.

These were busy times for Perry-Morton,
who, in addition to the almost herculean
labours which he went through in planning
and designing, so as to make his home worthy

of his goddess, had to beam every evening
in Harleigh Gardens.

This beaming was a very beautiful performance.
Some men love with their eyes and
look languishing, dart passionate glances, or
seem to ask questions or sympathy from the
fair one of their worship. Others, more manly
and matter-of-fact, love with their tongues,
and if clever in the use of this speaking
organ, these generally woo and win, for most
women love to be conquered by one who
is their master in argument and pleading.
There are others, again, who do not woo at
all, but allow themselves to be fished for,
hooked, and — and — what shall we say ? There
cooked, for there is no more expressive way
of describing their fate.

But Perry-Morton was none of those. He
was like the Archduke in the French comic
opera, nothing unless he was original ; and
it was only reasonable to suppose that he
would bring his great artistic mind to bear
upon so important a part of his life as the
choice of an Eve for his modern-antique
paradise. He did his wooing, then, in a way

of his own, and came nightly to beam upon
the object of his worship.

This he did in attitudes of his own designing,
while Cynthia felt as if, to use her own
words, she should like to stick pins in the
man's back.

For Perry-Morton's love seemed to emanate
from him in a phosphorescent fashion. He
became lambent with softly luminous smiles.
His plump face shone with a calm ethereal
satisfaction, and of all men in the world he
seemed most happy.

He did not trouble Julia much, only with
his presence. He would lay a finger on the
back of her chair, and pose himself like a
sculptor's idea of one of the fat gods in the
Greek Pantheon — say Bacchus, before too
much grape-juice had begun to interfere with
the proper working of his digestive organs.
Or before the first wanderings of his very severe
attacks of D. T., which must have caused so
much consternation and dismay in Olympus'
pleasant groves, and bothered aesculapius,
who applied leeches, because he would not own
to his ignorance of the new disease.

He never kissed Julia once, so Cynthia
declared. It is open to doubt whether he
ever pressed her hand. His was the 
style of love,
and he once terribly alarmed Julia by gracefully
reclining at her feet, with one arm resting
upon a footstool, and gazing blandly in her
face.

At other times he seemed to love her
from a distance — getting into far-off corners
of the room, and gazing from different points
of view, standing, sitting, lying on sofas —
always gracefully and in the most sculpturesque
fashion. In fact, Artingale in great
disgust wondered why he did not try standing
on his head : but that was absurd.

As the day fixed for the wedding drew
near, Perry-Morton was most regular in his
visits — most devoted, and his lambent softness
seemed to pervade the parental drawing-rooms.


Meanwhile Julia went about like one ina
dream. She was less hysterical and timid
than she had been for many weeks past, and
finding that her lover troubled her so little,

she bore his presence patiently, delighting
him, as he confided to Cynthia, by her
heavenly calm."

I don't think she's well," said Cynthia,
shortly.

Not well ? " he said, with a pitying smile.
My sweet Cynthia, you cannot read her
character as I read it. Do you not see how,
for months past, our love has grown, rising
like some lotus out from the cool depths of
an Eastern lake till it has reached the surface,
where it is about to unfold its ]metals to the
glowing sun. Ah, my sweet child, you do not
see how I have been forming her character,
day by day, hour by hour, till she has reached
to this sweet state of blissful repose. Look
at her now."

This conversation was going on in the back
drawing-room, on the evening preceding the
wedding-day, every one being very tired of
the visitors and congratulations, and present-giving,
the Eector especially, and he confided
to Mrs. Mallow the fact that after all he
would be very glad to get away back to
Lawford and be at peace.

VOL. III. H

"Yes," said Cynthia, rather ill-humoured,
for Harry had not been there that evening, " I
see her, and she looks very poorly."

"Poorly? Unwell? Nay," said Perry-morton
serenely, "merely in a beatific state
of repose. Ah, Cynthia, my child, when she
is my very own, and Claudine has imparted to
her some of the riches of her own wisdom on
the question of dress, I shall be a happy
man''

Cynthia seemed to give every nerve in her
little body a kind of snatch, but the lover did
not perceive it; he only closed his eyes, walked
to the half-pillar that supported the arch
between the two rooms, leaned his shoulder
against it, crossed his legs, gazed at poor
listless Julia for a few moments from this
point of view, and then turning his half-closed
eyes upon Cynthia, beckoned to her softly to
come.

Oh," whispered the latter to herself, as she
drew a long breath between her teeth, " I wish
I were going to be married to him tomorrow
instead of Julia. How I would bring him to
his senses, or knock something into his dreadful

head, or — there, I suppose I must go. Julia
must be mad."

Yes," she said, as she crossed to where
her brother iu prospective stood.

There," he said ; " look now. Could there
be a sweeter ideal of perfect repose ? Good —
good night, dear Cynthia, I am going to steal
away without a word to a soul. I would not
break in upon her rapturous calm ; and the
memory of her sweet face, as I see it now, will
soothe me during the long watches of the
peaceful night. Good night, Cynthia. Ah,
you should have changed names. Yonder is
Cynthia in all her calm silvery beauty. Goodnight,
sweet sister — good night — good night."

There was something very moonlit in his
looks and ways as he softly stole from the
room and out of the house, leaving Cynthia
motionless with astonishment.

I want to know," she said to herself at
last, " whether those two are really going to
be married tomorrow, or whether it is only a
dream. But there, I wash my hands of it all ;
I feel to-night as if I hate everybody — papa,
mamma, Harry for not killing that horrible

11 2

jelly-fish of a creature. Oh, he's dreadful!
And Julia, for letting herself be led as she is,
when she might have married dear James
Magnus, and been happy. No ! poor girl, I
must not blame her. She felt that she could
not love him, and perhaps she is right."

"Good night, Julia darling; I'm going to
bed," she whispered, and, seating herself by
her sister, she clasped her waist, and placed
her lips against her cheek.

"To bed? so soon?" said Julia, dreamily.

Soon ! It is past eleven. Will you come
and sit with me in my room, or shall I come
to you ? "

Julia shook her head.

Not to-night — not to-night," she said
softly ; and she clasped her sister in her
arms. " Good night, Cynthia dear. Think
lovingly of me always when I am gone."

Lovingly, Julie, always," whispered
Cynthia ; " always, dear sister."

Always — whatever comes ? " whispered
Julia.

"Always, whatever comes. Shall I come
and sit with you, Julie ; only for an hour ? "

'' No," said Julia, firmly, " not to-night.
Let us go to our rooms."

They went out of the drawing-room with
their arms round each other's waists, till they
were about to part at Julia's door, when the
final words and appeals that Cynthia was
about to speak died away upon her lips, and
she ran to her own chamber, sobbing bitterly,
while, white as ashes, and trembling in every
limb, Julia entered hers.

Poor, poor Julie ! " sobbed Cynthia ; and fora
good ten minutes she wept, her maid sniffing
softly in sympathy till she was dismissed.

Go away, Minion," cried Cynthia ; " I
don't want you any more."

"But won't you try on your dress again,
miss ? " said the maid in expostulation.

"No, Minion, I only wish it was fresh
mourning, I do," cried the girl, passionately ;
and the maid withdrew, to meet Julia's maid
on the stairs, and learn that she never knew
such a thing before in her life — a young bride,
and wouldn't try on her things.

Cynthia sat thinking for a few minutes, and
then a bright look came into her eyes.

'' He didn't come to-night," she said. " He
was cross about Julie. I wonder whether I
could see the bright end of a cigar if I looked
out over the gardens. Oh, the cunning of
some people, to give policemen half-sovereigns
not to take them for burglars, and lock them
up.

As she spoke, Cynthia drew up her blind
softly, and holding back the curtain, ensconced
herself in the corner, so that she could look
down into the gardens, her window being
towards the park.

It was a soft, dark night, but the light of a
lamp made the objects below dimly distinct,
and she rubbed the window-pane to gaze out
more clearly, saying laughingly to herself —

I wonder whether Romeo will come ! "

Directly after she pressed her face closer to
the glass.

There he is," she said, with a gleeful little
laugh. " No it isn't, I'm sure. What does it
mean ? What is he doing there ? "

CHAPTEE XIII.

AN EVENTFUL NIGHT.

1 can't go, and I won't go," said Artingale.
It's bad enough to have to be at the church
tomorrow and see that poor little lass sacrificed,
with everybody looking on smiling and
simpering except the bridesmaids, who are all
expected to shed six tears.

Six tears each, and six bridesmaids ; that's
thirty-six tears. I'd almost bet a fiver that
those two pre-Eaphaelite angels will each be
provided with an antique lachrymatory designed
by their dear brother, and they'll drop
their tears therein and stopper them up.

Oh, dear ! This is a funny world, and I'm
very fond of my pretty Cynthy, who's a regular
little trump ; but I'm getting deuced hungry.

ril go and hunt up old Mag, and we'll have a
bit of dinner together, and then go to the play.
Liven him up a bit, poor old man. Hansom ! "

A two-wheeled hawk swooped down, and
carried him off to the studio of James Magnus,
where that gentleman was busy with a piece
of crayon making a design for a large cartoon-like
picture, and after a good deal of pressing
he consented to go to the club and dine with
his friend.

I'm afraid you'll find me very dull company,"
said Magnus, sadly.

Then I'll make you lively, my boy. I'm
off duty to-night, and I feel like a jolly
bachelor. Champagne ; coffee afterwards, and
unlimited cigars."

What a boy you are, Harry ! " said the
artist, quietly. " How you do seem to enjoy
life ! "

Well, why shouldn't I ? Plenty of troubles
come that one must face ; why make others ? "

'sis — is she to be married tomorrow,
Harry ? " said Magnus, quietly.

I say, hadn't we better taboo that subject,
old fellow ? " said Artingale, quickly.

"No. Why should we? Do you think I
am not man enough to hear it calmly ? "

Artingale looked at him searchingly.

"Well, yes, I hope so; and since you have
routed out the subject, I suppose I must
answer your question. Yes, she is, and more
blame to you."

'ewe will not discuss that, Harry," said the
other, sadly. " I know well enough that it
was not in me to stir a single pulse in Julia
Mallow's veins, and I have accepted my fate.
Are you going to the wedding ? "

'eyes : I feel that I must. But I hate the
whole affair. I wish the brute would break
his neck. Ready ? "

Yes," was the reply ; and going out to the
waiting hansom, they were soon run down to
the club, where the choicest little dinner
Artingale could select was duly placed before
them.

But somehow, nothing was nice. Artis
hunger seemed to have departed, and
he followed his friend's example, and ate
mechanically. The dry sherry was declared
to be watery, and the promised champagne.

though a choice brand and from a selected
cuvee, was not able to transmit its sparkle to
the brains of those who partook.

Artingale talked hard and talked his best.
He introduced every subject he could, but in
vain, and at last, when the time had come for
the claret, he altered his mind.

"No, Mag," he exclaimed, "no claret tonight.
We want nothing calm and cool,
old fellow. I feel as if I had not tasted
a single glass of wine, but as if you, you
miserable old wet blanket, had been squeezing
out your drops into a tumbler and I had been
drinking them. What do you say to a
foaming beaker of the best black draught ? "

My dear Harry, I'm very sorry," said
Magnus, laughing. " There, I'll try and be a
little more lively."

We will," exclaimed Artingale, " and
another bottle of champagne will do it."

Magnus smiled.

Ah, smile away, my boy, but I'm going
to give you a new sensation. I've made a
discovery of a new wine. No well-known,
highly praised brand made famous by advertisements,

but a rich, pungent, powerful,
sparkling champagne, from a vineyard hardly
known. Here, waiter, bring me a bottle of
number fifty three."

The wine was brought, and whether its
virtues were exaggerated or no, its effects
were that for the next two hours life seemed
far more bearable to James Magnus, who
afterwards enjoyed his coffee and cigar.

Then another cigar was partaken of, and
another, after which it was found to be too
late for the projected visit to one of the
theatres, and Magnus proposed an adjournment
to his own room.

To this, however, Artingale would not
consent, and in consequence they sat till long
after ten, and then parted, each to his own
chambers.

Artingale's way of going to his own chambers
was to take a hansom, and tell the man
to drive him to the Marble Arch, and then
along the Bayswater-road until told to stop.

This last order came before Kensington
Gardens were reached, when the man was dismissed,
and the fare wandered down the nearest

turning, and along slowly by the backs of
the Harleigh Gardens houses — or their fronts,
whichever the part was termed that faced north.

Up and down here he paraded several times
not a very wise proceeding, seeing that he
might have come sooner in the evening, and
the doors would have flown open at his
summons. But it has always been so from
the beginning. A gentleman gets into a
certain state, and then thinks that he derives
a great deal of satisfaction in gazing at the
casket which holds the jewel of his love.
When the custom first came in it is of course
impossible to say, but it is extremely probable
that Jacob used to parade about in the sand
on moonlight nights, and watch the tent that
contained his Rachel, and no doubt the
custom has followed right away down the
corridors of time.

When Artingale had finished the front of
the house he went round to the back, made
his way by some mysterious means into the
garden, where he fancied he saw some one
watching ; and concluding that it would not
be pleasant to be seen, he beat a retreat, and

after a glance up at Cynthia's window, where
he could see a light, he contented himself by
walking slowly back, so as to get to the other
side of the lofty row of houses.

'just one walk up and down," he said to
himself, '' and then home to bed."

It was some distance round, and as he went
along he made the following original observation
: —

This is precious stupid ! "

And at the end of another fifty yards —

But somehow I seem to like it. Does one
good. Ton my soul, I think the best thing
a fellow can do is to fall in love."

He sauntered on from gas-lamp to gas-lamp,
till he was once more at the front, or
back, of the great houses, with their entrance-doors
on his right, and a great blank-looking
wall on his left.

He went dreamily on along the pavement,
past the furnished house that the agent
assured the Eector he had obtained dirt cheap,
which no doubt it was, but* it was what a gold-miner
would call wash dirt.

When about midway, Artingale passed

some one on the other side, close to the wall,
and walking in the opposite direction.

But the presence of some one else in the
street did not attract Artingale's attention,
and he sauntered along until he reached the
end, and stopped.

Now, then," he said, '' home '? or one more
walk to the end and back ? "

He hesitated for a moment, and then turned
beneath the lamp post, with a smile at his
own weakness, and walked slowly back.

I should have made a splendid Romeo !' he
said. " What a pity it is that the course of
my true love should run so jolly smooth.
Everything goes as easy as possible for me.
Not a single jolly obstacle. Might have been
married tomorrow morning if I had liked, and
sometimes I wish I had been going to act as
principal ; but it is best as it is,"

He was nearing the Rector's residence once
again.

Now with some people," he continued, half
aloud, "how different it is. Everything
goes wrong with them. Look at poor old
Magnus The deuce ! Why, Mag ! "

I thought you had gone home ! "
I thought you had gone home ! "
I thought I would have a walk first," said
Magnus, quietly.

So did I, old fellow. But oh, I say ! "
'^ Don't laugh at me, Harry," said the artist,
sadly. " It is like saying good-bye. After
tomorrow I shall settle down."

"I don't laugh at you, old fellow," said
Artino;ale, taking the other's arm. " It's all
right. I might just as well ask you not to
laugh at me. Have a cigar ? "

Magnus nodded, the case was produced, and
they both lit up, and instead of going straight
back east, continued to promenade up and down,
and then right round the great block of houses
over and over again, for quite an hour, saying
very little, but seeming as it were attracted to
the place, till coming to the front, for what
Artingale vowed should be the last time, he saw
a couple of figures apparently leave one of the
doors, and go right on towards the other end.

'* Somebody late," he said, feeling a kind of
interest in the couple that he could not
account for.

'eyes," said Magnus, quickly, "very late.
Come along."

Artingale involuntarily quickened his steps,
and they followed the two figures without a
word, seeing them sometimes more, sometimes
less, distinctly, according to the position they
occupied relative to the lamps.

Why they took so much interest in them
was more than they could have explained, fora
couple of figures going late at night along a
London street is no such very great novelty ;
but still, they quickened their steps, feeling
ready at the slightest hint to have increased
the pace to a run.

There seemed no sufficient reason though
for such a step, and they continued to walk
on fast, till they came to the end of the
row of houses ; and turning sharply they
were just in time to hear the jangling noise
of the door of a four-wheeled cab slammed
to, then what sounded like a faint wailing
cry.

"There's something wrong, I think," said
Artingale ; but as he spoke the glass was
dragged up, the horse started ofi' at a rapid

trot, the cab turned into the road by the Park
railings, and was gone.

The two friends stood hesitating, and had
they been alone, either would have run after
the cab. But as they hesitated from a feeling
that such a proceeding would have been
absurd, the vehicle was driven rapidly away.

What made you say there was something
wrong ? " said Magnus at last, in a hoarse
voice.

1 don't know, I can't tell : where did those
people come from ? I hope no one's ill."

From one of the houses near Mr. Mallow's,"
said Magnus.

I think so ; I couldn't be sure. Let's
walk back."

They hurried back past the series of blank
doors, till they were about half way along,
when as they reached the Eec tor's they found
that a policeman had just come up, and he
made them start by flashing his lantern in
their faces.

Oh, it's you, sir," he said to Artingale.
Were you coming back here ? "

'*No. Why''

VOL. III. I

*' Because you left the door open."

"Then there is something wrong, Magnus.
Here, let's run after the cab."

It's half a mile away by now," said the
other hoarsely. " You'd better see, constable."

It's a crack," said the policeman, excitedly,
*^ and the chaps must be in here. Will you
gents keep watch while I get help, and put
some one on at the other side in the Gardens ? "

Yes — no — yes," exclaimed Artingale. " I'm
afraid some one's ill. We saw two people come
away hurriedly and take a cab at the end."

They wouldn't have took a cab," said the
constable. " There's a doctor at the end there
close by. We're too late, for a severn. Or
no ; stop. There's something else up. Look
here, sir, I've had you hanging about here and
on the other side ever since the family has
been in town. Now then, who are you ? "

"There is my card, constable," said Artis
shortly. " You know why I came."

Yes, sir — my lord, I mean. But why did
that big hulking rough chap, like a country
gamekeeper, come ? He's been hanging
about "

"Stop!" cried Artingale. "Was it a big
black-bearded fellow above six feet high ? "

"That's the man, sir. I set him down as
from the country house, and after one of the
maids."

When — when did you see him last ? " cried
Magnus.

"To-night, sir."

To-night ? "

Yes, milord. But while I'm stopping here
they may be getting out at the other side and
be off."

I'll watch here," said Artingale.

Eight, sir. I'll soon have some one on at
the other side. You, sir, watch at the area"
to Magnus. '^ If any one comes out and
tries to run, you lay hold and stick to 'im.
I'll soon be back."

Quick, then ; for heaven's sake, quick ! "
cried Artingale ; and the man went off at a
-run.

Let's go after the cab, Harry," cried
Magnus, excitedly,

Let's run after the moon, man. It would
be madness. If anything is wrong they are

I 2

far away by now. But we don't know yet
that anything is wrong. Wait a few minutes.
We shall soon find out."

'' And meantime ? " panted Magnus.
*' We can do nothing but act like men, and
remain calm. Go to your post," exclaimed
Artingale ; and he spoke in a sharp, decisive
way, that showed that the service had missed
a good officer.

Five minutes — ten minutes — a quarter of
an hour of torture, during which all inside
was as still as death. Then as Artingale stood
in the open doorway he fancied he heard a
slight sound, and as he stood upon the qui vive,
ready to seize the first man who presented
himself, he heard steps outside, and saw that a
policeman was coming.

Steps inside, too, and then from the hall a
bull's-eye lantern flashed upon him.

All right, sir," said a familiar voice ; and
he saw that it was the first policeman. " The
dining-room window was open facing the Park.
I come in there. I've got a man watching.
That you, sergeant ? "

Yes. You stop here with this gentleman ;

get out your truncheon, and don't miss 'em,
whatever you do. Roberts will be along here
directly."

What are you going to do first ? " said
Artingale.

Rout up the butler and one or two more,
sir, directly," said the sergeant, opening his
lantern ; and as they entered the hall he made
the light play about the perfectly orderly
place, before going softly into the great diningroom.


Don't quite understand it yet, sir," he
said. " The dining-room shutters here had
been opened from the inside. Window was
open. Seen anything ? " he said to some one
in the shadow.

"No."

There's plate enough on that sideboard,"
continued the sergeant, " to have made a pretty
good swag, if it ain't 'lecturer."

No, no, those are all silver. It is a presentation
set."

Then we're in time," whispered the sergeant.
" I expect the servants are in it."

A terrible dread was oppressing Artingale,

but he did not speak, only followed the
sergeant as he tried the breakfast-room door,
to find it fast and the key outside ; the library
the same.

"All right there," he said softly. "Joe,
here. Stand inside and keep your eye on the
staircase ; we're going below."

The constable at the entrance obeyed his
orders, and softly opening a glass door, the
sergeant, who seemed quite at home in the
geography of the place, led the way down a
flight of well-whitened stone steps to the basement,
the bright light of his lantern playing
upon a long row of bells, and then upon a
broad stone passage and several doors.

Butler's pantry," he whispered, after a
good look round. " You stop here, sir."

Artingale stopped short, guarding the foot
of the steps, and the sergeant tried the door,
to find it fast, but as the handle rattled a
man's voice exclaimed, " Who's there ? "

Police ! Open quickly."

There was a scuffling noise, then the striking
of a match, and a light shone out from three
panes of glass above the door. The hurried

sound of some one putting on some clothes,
and then a peculiar monitory cUck-cUcJc !

Mind what you're at with that pistol,"
said the sergeant gruffly. " I tell you it's the
police. Open the door."

How do I know it's the police ? " said the
butler firmly.

Come and see then, stupid."

Open the door, Thompson," said Artingale.
'' Tm here too."

Oh, is it you, my lord ? " said the butler,
and he unlocked the door, to be seen in his
shirt and trousers, with a cocked pistol in his
hand. " I've got the plate here, my lord, and
I did not know but what it was a trick. For
God's sake, my lord, what's the matter ? "

Don't know yet," said the sergeant. " But
the plate's right, you say ? "

Yes ; all but the things in the diningroom."


They're safe too. We found the front door
open. Now then, who sleeps down here ? "

Under-butler, footman, and page," said
the butler quickly ; and taking a chamber
candlestick, he led the way to a smaller pantry

where the light showed a red-faced boy fast
asleep with his mouth open.

Where are the men ? " said the sergeant
laconically; and the butler led the way to a
closed door, which opened into a long stone-paved
hall, in the two recesses of which were
a couple of turned-up bedsteads, in each of
which was a sleeping man, one of whom
jumped up, however, as the light fell upon
his eyes.

Get up, James," said the butler. " Have
either of you fellows been up to any
games ? "

No, sir. We came to bed before you,"
was the reply.

You'd better get up," said the butler.

Then following the sergeant the basement
was searched, and they reascended to the
hall.

I've been all about here," said the sergeant
quietly. "They must have meant the jewels
and things up-stairs. Next thing is to go up
and wake your gunner."

'' What, alone ? " said the butler blankly.

Come along, then, and I'll go with you."

I'll come too, sergeant," said Artingale.
"Don't alarm the ladies if you can help
it."

And together they mounted the thickly-carpeted
stairs.

CHAPTER Xii.

GONE ! Where ?

If one could but bring oneself to the belief,,
there is only a slight difference between day
and night, and that difference is that in the
latter case there is an absence of light — that
is all ; but, somehow, we people the darkness
with untold horrors. We ignore it, pf course ;
we should ridicule the impeachment, but the
fact remains the same, that probably nineteen
people out of every twenty are afraid of being
in the dark — perhaps more so than they were
when children.

Possibly we grow more nervous than when
we were young, or gas may have had something
to do with it ; certainly more people
seem to burn lights in their bed-rooms than

used to be the case before a gas-burner or two
had become the regular furniture of a well-ordered
bed-room in town.

In our fathers' days, people who were
invalids burned long, thin, dismal rushlights
in shades, with the candle itself in the middle
of a cup of water ; or else they had a glass
containing so much oil floating on water, and
a little wick upon its own raft, sailing about
like a miniature floating beacon in the oil.
But still these were the exceptions, and a light
in a bed-room was an uncommon thing. At
the same time, though, it must be allowed that
there is something fear exciting about the
dark rooms, and that sounds that are unnoticed
in the broad daylight acquire a strange weirdness
if heard when all else is still. People
have a bad habit of being taken ill in the
night ; burglqjcs choose " the sma' " hours for
breaking into houses ; sufferers from indigestion
select the darkness for their deeds of evil
known as sleep-walking; and the imps attendant
on one's muscles prefer two or three o'clock
in the so-called morning for putting our legs
on that rack known as the cramp. It is

perhaps after all excusable then for people to
indulge, in moderation, in a little nocturnal
alarm ; and it may also, for aught we know, be
good for us, and act as a safety-valve escape
for a certain amount of bad nerve-force. No
doubt Priam was terribly alarmed when his
curtains were drawn in the dead of the night —
as much so, perhaps, as the noble queen ;
and therefore it was quite excusable for the
Eector to answer the summons of the head of
his wedding staff of servants in a state of
no little excitement.

Dreadful ! extraordinary ! most strange ! "
he faltered. " You where passing, Henry, eh ? "

Yes : Mr. Magnus and I were going by,
and we found the policeman had discovered
that the door was open."

'' Then the place has been rifled," exclaimed
the Eector; "and many of the things are
hired," he cried piteously. " Everything will
be gone ! What is to be done ? "

Hush, Mr. Mallow ! we shall alarm the
whole house," said Artingale, hastily. " I
fancy I saw some one leave the place as we
came up. Will you send and see if— if "

He hesitated, for lie saw Magnus with a
face like ashes, standing holding on by the
balustrade.

Yes, yes," exclaimed the Eector. " Speak
out, please. Do you mean see if all the
servants are at home ? "

I don't know — I scarcely know what to
say," whispered Artingale, going close up to
him. " We want to avoid exposure, sir. Go
and knock at Cynthia's door, and send her to
see if her sister has been alarmed."

There is no occasion to frighten her. Let
the place below be well searched, and the
servants examined."

Just then Mrs. Mallow's voice was heard
inquiring what was the matter, and the Eector
thrust his head inside the door to tell her that
she was not to be alarmed.

Is any one ill ? " said a voice just then,
which made Artingale thrill, and he ran to the
door from which the voice had come.

Dress yourself quickly", Cynthy," he whispered,
" and go and tell Julie not to be
alarmed. We — we are afraid there has been a
burglary."

The door closed, and just then the Rector,
"who had been compelled to go back to his
room to quiet Mrs. Mallow's fears, came
back.

I will speak to .the young ladies," he said,
looking pale and troubled, and going along
the landing, he tapped lightly at Julia's
door.

Julia, my dear ! Julia ! "

He tapped again.

julia, my child! Julia!"

Still no answer.

He tapped a little louder, a little louder
still — but no answer ; and Artingale and
Magnus exchanged glances.

Dear me, it is most embarrassing. How
fast she sleeps," said the Rector, looking round
apologetically. " Really, gentlemen, I do not
think we ought to disturb her."

All the same, urged by a strange feeling
of alarm, he tapped again, but still without
result ; and once more he looked round at the
strange group gathered upon the broad landing
— the police in great coats, and lantern-bearing
; the butler with his candlestick and

pistol ; the two gentlemen in evening dress,
with their light overcoats and crush hats in
hand.

Just then a door opened, and every one drew
back to allow the pretty little vision that burst
upon their sight to pass them by.

The figure was that of Cynthia, with her
crisp, fair hair lightly tied back, so that it
floated down loosely over the loose wide
peignoir of creamy cashmere trimmed with
blue, which formed a costume, as it swept
from her in graceful folds, far more becoming
than the most ravishing toilet from a Parisian
modiste. She held a little silver candlestick,
with bell glass to shade the light, and as she
came forward, looking very composed and firm,
though rather pale, Arbingale felt for the
moment as if he could have emulated Perry-morton,
and fallen down to kiss her pretty
little slipper-covered feet.

''Ah, my dear !" exclaimed the Rector, "I
am glad you have come. I cannot make
Julia hear."

Cynthia darted a quick glance at Artingale,
full of dread and dismay, and then without

a word she passed on and laid her hand upon
the china knob of Julia's door. Then she
hesitated for a moment, but only for a moment,
before turning the handle and going in, the
door swinging to behind her.

Cynthia held her candle above her head and
gave one glance round, the light falling on
Julia's wedding dress and veil ; the wreath
was on a table, side by side with the jewels
that had been presented to her. Over other
chairs and in half packed trunks were travelling
and other costumes, with the endless little
signs of preparation for leaving home.

Cynthia gave one glance round her with
dilating eyes ; ran into the dressing-room and
back ; looked at the unpressed bed, and then
she let fall the candlestick as she sank on her
knees uttering a loud cry, and covering her
face with her hands.

It was no time for ceremony, and at the cry
the Eector rushed in, followed by Artingale,
Magnus stopping at the door to keep back the
police and the servants, who would have
entered too, both the men from below having
now joined the group.

As the Eector ran in with Artingale, Cynthia
started up once more.

*' Oh, papa ! oh, Harry ! " she cried, piteously,
" Julie has gone ! "

'* Gone ! " gasped the Eector. *' Gone I
Adhere ? Are you mad ? "

Mad ? no, papa, but she is. Oh, Harry !
I saw that dreadful man to night outside in
the garden, after we had gone to bed ; but I
thought she would be safe ; and now I know
it — I am quite sure. Oh, Harry, Harry ! what
shall we do ? He has taken her away ! "

VOL. III.

CHAPTER XV.

THE BIRD AND THE SERPENT.

Unmistakably. There could be no doubt
of the fact ; Julia Mallow had fled from her
home that night — half willingly, half forced,
always drawn as it were by the strange influence
that the man who had been the evil
genius of her life had exercised over her.

For months past she had fought against it,
and striven to nerve herself to conquer the force
that seemed to master her ; but always in vain.
For often, unseen except by her, Jock Morrison
was on the watch, turning up where least
expected ; and when not present in the flesh,
seemingly always there in spirit, and haunting
her like her shadow. Again and again he
had come upon her alone, taken her in his

arms, and in his coarse fashion told her that
he loved her, and that she should belong to
him alone. Nothing, he told her, should keep
them apart, for if he could not get her by fair
means he would by foul ; laughingly showing
her the great spring-bladed dagger-knife he
carried, and saying that he kept it sharp for
any one who got in his way.

Julia trembled at the thought of seeing him ;
she shuddered and closed her eyes when he
appeared before her, and then grew nerveless
and weak, fascinated, as it were, like some
bird before a serpent ; and the scoundrel knew
it. He felt the power of his words, and he
repeated them to his shivering victim, glorying
the while in the power he felt that he
exercised over her.

Sometimes she had fancied that she was
mastering her fear, but as she overcame that
dread, she found, to her horror, that there was
another occult influence at work which refused
to be overcome ; for as in the solitude of her
own chamber she strove with it, she found that
she was only riveting her chains more stoutly.
It was not love for him. No, that was

impossible ; for she shuddered and shrank from
him as from some monster. But, to her
horror, she found that her feelings towards the
great overmastering ruffian were something
near akin. The thoughts of his great muscular
figure, his bold bearing, and brown picturesque
face were always before her ; and even
when her own were closed, his fierce black
piercing eyes were fixed upon hers, reading
her weakness, insisting upon his mastery over
her more powerfully even than his words,
though they were burned into her memory ;
and at last, after fighting with all her mind
against the current of what she felt to be her
fate, she had begun to drift.

Once she had allowed that terrible idea —
that it was her fate — to obtain entrance, and
she was lost, for it produced a weak submission
that stifled every hope. Drift, drift, drift —
resigning herself to what she thought was the
inevitable. Some day, she told herself, Jock
would come and order her to leave home and
all she loved, and follow him wheresoever he
willed ; and she would have to go. He was her
master, her fate ; and mingled with her horror

of him there was that inexplicable fascination
that exercised upon her will the power of the
mesmerist upon his patient, and she could
fight no more. When it would be she knew
not, thought not ; only she knew that the time
would come, and when it did she could no
more resist, no more battle with it, than
against that other inevitable point that would,
end her weary life — when the angel of death
would overshadow her with his heavy
wings, touch her with icy finger, and bid her
away.

Always brooding now over these two fixed
points in her career — the coming of Jock
Morrison and the coming of the end ; and so
she drifted on. She heard the talk of the
wedding that she knew would never be ; for
if the day did come, and she were taken to the
church, she felt that her fate would pluck her
from the very altar, or even from her husband's
arms.

She knew of the love of James Magnus, and
she felt a curious kind of pity for one whom
she liked and esteemed ; but she closed her
eyes with a weary smile as she thought of

him, for she knew that she was drifting away,
and that even to look at him was to give him
pain.

Drifting still when taken to see the talked
home, asked opinions upon decorations, and
taken by father and sister where she was prepared
to be decked for the sacrifice. Drifting,
too, at party or ball, where she met Perry -
Morton, who always seemed to her like some?
nebulous mist, that was absorbed and died
away in the presence of the giant ever filling
her imagination.

Go where she would, she felt that she would
see him somewhere, though often it was but
imagination. Still it kept Jock Morrison
always in her mind, and he knew that he was
secure of his prize, waiting patiently till she
came back from abroad.

At first she had felt a kind of sorrow for
Perry-morton, and wanted to warn him of
what her fate would be ; but the pity gave
place to contempt, the contempt to disgust,
the disgust to dread ; for she felt that if she
warned him he would take steps to assert
himself, and if he did, she knew in her heart

that her fate, as she called him, would not
stop at taking his life.

And so by slow degrees Julia drifted from
active opposition into a morbid belief that
resistance was vain, nursing her horror in her
own racked breast, and waiting for the fulfilment
of her fate. As Cynthia had complained,
she had grown reticent, and made no confidante
of her sister ; in fact, there were times,
after seeing Morrison, when she felt with a
sigh that she should be glad when all was
(wer, and she need think no more. For she
was weary of thinking, weary of this keeping
up appearances, weary of Perry-Morton, of his
sisters, of home, of her own life.

There were times when she looked from her
window longingly towards where she knew
the long lake lay in the hollow of the Park,
and wondered whether it would not be better
to flee from the house some evening:, 2:0 down
to the bridge, and throw herself in. She
shuddered as she formed the idea ; not from
dread of death, which would have been like
rest to her ; but because she felt that she
would be only hastening her fate, and that

she did fear. For so surely as she left the
house to cross the Park, so surely she knew
that Jock Morrison would start up from the
grass and take her away.

And so it had come to the wedding eve,
and the great burly form had shown itself
in the garden. She had seen it early in the
evening, and she had felt that it was there
hour after hour, till Perry-Morton had left,
and she had gone to the window, drawn therein
spite of herself Later on she had obeyed
Jock's signals, feeling as if he were speaking
to her — telling her that the time had come,
and dressing herself in her plainest things,
she had sat down and waited by the open
window, acting mechanically, till the deep
voice came up to where she sat, bidding her
come down now.

She felt no emotion, for it was all as if
she were in a dream. She obeyed, however,
going out on to the landing, after closing
lier window, to find that all was very silent
in the house. Then for a moment she went
and kneeled down upon the mat by her sister's
door, laid her cheek against it, sighed heavily

and kissed the panel that separated them,
and slowly descended the stairs, entered the
dining-room, and, still as if drawn by her fate,
unfastened the shutters and window, which
latter was thrown open, and Jock Morrison
stepped boldly into the room.

Good girl ! " he said, clasping her in his
embrace. " IVe got a cab waiting, for you
shall ride to-night. Didn't you think it was
time I came ? "

She did not answer, but acted still like one
in a dream, as he watched from the door,
withdrawing more than once with a muttered
oath as Artingale and Magnus kept parading
about the place.

He was about to start again and again, but
he always seemed to hesitate till their steps
were heard once more, when he would close
the door and stand listening, with the
trembling girl clasped tightly in his arms.

At last he seemed to be satisfied that the
ground was clear, and with a smile of triumph
on his lip he stepped out, drawing Julia
after him ; but as he reached the pavement
he heard the steps of the two gentlemen once

more, and uttering a fierce oath he hurried
his prize along faster and faster, as he felt
that their evasion had been seen.

'quicker, my lass, quicker!" he said,
gruffly ; and she had to obey him. But she
was growing faint. She held up, though, till
she reached the cab, into which he hurried
her. And now for the first time the reality
of her position seemed to force itself upon
her, and she started up with a wild cry.

Too late ! With one hand he thrust her
back into the seat as with the other he drew
up the window, and her next feeble cry
was drowned by the noise of the jangling
panes.

In his agony of grief and horror the Rector
could hardly believe in the possibility of that
which Artingale reluctantly told ; for when
he appealed to his child he could not get
a word from her, but hysterical cries for her
sister, whom she accused herself of having
neglected and allowed to go.

Tt was impossible, the Rector declared, and
after a long discussion he insisted upon the
matter being kept quiet, refusing to take

any steps in the way of pursuit till he had
seen his son.

It would all come right, he was sure, he
said ; and finding that nothing could be done,
Artingale left the house, after hearing from
the doctor, who had been sent for, that he need
be under no apprehension concerning Cynthia.

What next ? " he said to Magnus.

To find her," said the artist, " wherever
she is, and to bring her back — poor lost lamb I
Oh, Harry, they have driven the poor girl
mad ! "

I'm with you, Magnus," said Artingale,
to the end. Come on ; we have lost much
valuable time, but I could not stir till I saw
what her father intended to do."

He hailed a cab.

"Scotland Yard!" he shouted, and the
man drove on. " If it costs me all I've got
I'll have her back I look upon her as a
sister. Poor girl ! poor girl ! she must have
been mad indeed."

Harry," whispered Magnus, " what are
you going to do ? " and his voice sounded
hoarse and strange.

'' Put the best dogs to be had upon the
trail to run them down."

^'And then?"

Get the scoundrel transported for life.
And you ? "

I'm going with you to-night, or this
morning, or whatever it is ; tomorrow I'm
going to buy a pistol."

And blow out your brains ? " cried
Artingale. " Bah ! what's the use of
that ?"

No," said Magnus, turning his haggard
face to his friend, " to shoot him as I would
a rabid dog."

And be put on your trial for murder.
No ; my plan's best."

Your plan ! " said Magnus, fiercely.
What can you do ? You forget the circumstances
of the case. Before we can reach
them the scoundrel will have married her.
You cannot touch him."

Artingale ground his teeth as he seemed
to realize the truth of what was said. Then,
turning, he urged the man on to greater
speed.

All was quiet and orderly in the great
office at Whitehall, and a quiet, thoughtful
official heard their business, raised his
eyebrows a little, and then made a few
notes.

You will keep the matter as quiet as
possible," said Artingale, " for the sake of
the young lady's family ; but at all costs
she must be brought back."

We'll soon find the scoundrel, my lord ;
but from your description he is not a London
mail"

London, no ; he is one of those scoundrels
dio live more by poaching than anything."

All right, sir. I'll take your address —
and yours, sir. Can I find you here — at wdiat
time ? "

Time ! " cried Artingale ; "I have no
time but for this affair. I'll stay here with
you and your men — live here — sleep here.
Damme, I'll join the force if it will help to
bring the poor child back. It is horribly
bad ! She was to have been married this
morning."

All that can be done, sir, shall be done,"

said the officer, quietly. *' And now, gentlemen,
if you'll take my advice you'll go home
and have a good sleep."

What ! " cried Artingale. " Go and sleep 1
No, I want to be at work."

Exactly, sir ; then go and have a rest,
and be ready for when I want you. If you
stop here you can do no good — only harm,
by hindering me."

But, damn it all ! " cried Artingale,
furiously, " you take it so coolly."

The only way to win, sir — my lord, I
mean. But we are wasting time. By now
I should have had the telegraph at work, and
the description flying to every station in
London."

'' In God's name, then, go on," cried Artis
" take no notice of us, only let us
stay."

The officer nodded, and in an incredibly
short space of time it was known all over
London and the districts round of the elopement
or abduction, and a couple of the keenest
officers were at work to track the fugitives
down.

I

It took some time ; but a clever net was
drawn all over London. The early morning
trains were watched, the yards where the
night cabs were housed were visited ; the
various common lodging-houses had calls, and
every effort was made to trace Jock Morrison,
and had he been a known London bird the .
probabilities are that the police would have
placed their hands upon him ; but they had
to deal with a man whose life had been one
of practised cunning, and he had so made
his plans that the police were at fault.

They found the cabman in a very short
time, and lie testified to having driven the
great fellow and the lady with him to Charing
Cross.

That was all.

The net spread over London missing that
which it was intended to catch, its meshes
were lessened, and it was stretched out wider,
and from every police-station in the country,
and in every provincial town, the description
of the fugitives went forth ; but still they
were not found. So cleverly had the scoundrel
made his plans that no tidings whatever

were obtained, and by degrees the pursuit
waxed less hot. First one and then another
cause celebre took the attention of the police.
Then Artingale grew less keen, for the months
were gliding by, and he had devoted himself
heart and soul to the cause for long enough
without result.

Then more months passed, and still no
news. The strange disappearance of Julia
Mallow became almost historical, and it was
only revived a little as a topic of conversation,
when it was announced that Mr. Perry-Morton
had returned with his sisters from their long
sojourn in Venice, and soon after it was
rumoured in paragraphs that the talented
leader of a certain clique was about to lead
to the altar the daughter of a most distinguished
member of the artistic world.

Luke Eoss had been consulted by Magnus
and Lord Artingale, and had helped them to
the best of his power, counselling the enlistment
of Tom Morrison and his wife upon
their side ; but he could do no more, and
the matter was pushed from his mind by the
hard study and work upon which he was

eo gaged, till he read in the morning papers
the announcement of Cynthia's marriage to
Lord Artingale, quite two years after Julia's
disappearance, the Mallows having again been
a long time abroad.

Then, saving to a few, Julia was as one
that is dead.

VOL. III.

Chapter XVI.

A MEETING — AND PARTING.

There years passed away, and Julia's disappearance
remained a mystery to all, and it
was calmly put away upon the dusty shelves
of the past — by all save one.

Father had mourned for her, and time had
somewhat assuaged his grief ; mother had wept
in silence upon her weary couch ; sister talked
less often now of ' poor Julia ' ; brother, when
he was seen, never mentioned her name. The
whole matter had grown misty and pale in the
distance of the bygone to all save James Magnus,
and from that night he had never rested.
Detectives had grown cold ; other affairs had
taken their attention ; but nothing had
checked the cold, stern, haggard man whose
one aim in life now was to stand face to face

i

with the ruffian who had made his life a
wreck. Had Julia married Perry-Morton, he
would have borne it in silence ; but this was
^n outrage to his feelings that he could not
bear, and taking sketching materials as an
excuse, he had started off to find them, though
he rarely put brush to paper now, for he was
incessant in his searchings, and every likely
nook and corner in London and the great
cities was visited by him in turn.

Now he was wandering in the country,
having had news that seemed to promise
success ; now away off to some out-of-the-way
spot in the New Forest, or Herefordshire, where
gipsies made their home ; always on the scent,
but - never successful. He Had tracked out
scores of burly ruffians, but they were none of
them the man he thought to meet.

Back again in London in the east, in the
lowest purlieus of the south, in common lodge
on waste grounds where caravans
were drawn up for the winter ; off to racecourses
and fairs, and great markets where
such men as Jock Morrison were to be found,
but always in vain.

L 2

Once he heard of him, as he thought, at
Hardcastle, at another time at Newmarket,
and again on Epsom Downs, but it was
always some great idle ruffian bearing a slight
resemblance to Jock Morrison, never the man
himself.

And in all those solitary wanderings, James
Magnus carried the pistol he had bought, and
practised with it in his lonely walks. Hundreds
upon hundreds of times those chambers
were discharged, his marks being trees, finger-posts,
saplings rising out of hedges ; and
though the artist seemed day by day to grow
thin, careworn, and weak, his nerves were as
if of steel, and each bullet flew upon its course
with unerring aim.

The law cannot touch him," he muttered,,
with a strange smile ; '' perhaps a bullet can."

It was on a bright afternoon in May that,
seeing no beauty in the verdant spring and
the return of sunny days, James Magnus,
heartsick and worn out, crawled back to his
chambers to find Burgess anxiously expecting
him, for he had been away longer than was
his wont.

** Oh, I am glad to see you back, sir' lie
said. " Set down, sir, and let me take off your
dusty boots. You look worn out. Lord
Harry lias been here — not an hour ago."

A faint smile came upon the face of Magnus,
as he heard the name of his friend, and taking
up the card he rose to go.

*' Going, sir, so soon ? " exclaimed his man.

Only to see Lord Artingale," said Magnus,
wearily. "Ill soon be back."

On reaching his friend's house in Lowness
the servant told him that his lordship
had gone into the Park with her ladyship.
They were in the open carriage ; and wondering
at his own weariness, Magnus followed,
unconsciously walking straight to the very
spot where, what seemed a lifetime back, he
and Artingale had leaned over the rail, and
first seen poor Julia's fate.

He did not recall the fact at first, but stood
watching the carriages, thinking how much he
would like to meet his old friend ; and his
face lit up with a smile that had been a
stranger to it of late.

For a long time it seemed as if his journey

had been in vain, and he was listlessly scanning
the long lines of vehicles, when suddenly
he heard his name uttered, and a carriage was
drawn up close to the rails, with Artingale and
Cynthia therein, both looking, if not so young,
as bright and happy as ever.

"My dear old fellow," cried Artingale,
grasping his friend's hand, as Cynthia possessed
herself of the other, " I can't tell you
how glad I am to see you. But jump in, and
we'll go home at once. We'll have such a
dinner, and those dining-room curtains shall
be incensed, and no mistake, to-night."

No, no, not now," said Magnus ; and in
spite of all his friend's pressure he declined.

Then I shall come with you," cried Artis
" Cynthy, may I go ? "

I suppose you must," she said merrily.
Mr. Magnus, you are the only gentleman to
whom I would give him up."

Then there was a pleasant chat for a time,
the carriage drove on, and Artingale and his
friend were left standing by the Park rails.

"Not one word," said Magnus to himself;
Julia is indeed dead."

Why, Mag, old man, this is the very spot
where "

Hush ! Look ! " cried Magnus, grasping
his friend's arm. " God, I thank Thee. At
last — at last ! "

Artingale followed the direction of his eyes,
and started, for there, on the other side of the
drive, was the great picturesque ruffian, slowly
sauntering along, quite unchanged, and with
the same defiant air.

Artingale restrained his friend, who was
about to leap over the railings.

No, no," he whispered, " let's follow him,
and see where he goes. We shall find her then."

It was a slow task, for Jock Morrison went
first out on to the grass and lay down for an
hour, but the watchers did not quit their post
for a moment, but tracked him when he rose,
step by step, and along the great highway due
east, till he turned up Gray's-inn-lane, and then
up one of the narrow courts.

It was as ill-favoured and vile as any there,
and for the moment Magnus thought he had
missed his man, but as, in spite of the scowling
looks around, he hurried down the court, a

heavy step on one of the staircases acted as
his guide ; and, closely followed by Artingale,
he bounded up to the second landing, which
he reached just as a door was slammed to, and
he turned a countenance upon his friend that
made him shudder.

At last, Harry," he said in a low whisper.
'' At last ! God of heaven, how I have prayed
for this time ! "

Stop," cried Artingale, excitedly ; '' you
shall not go in. Give me that pistol, Magnus.
You shall not go."

He clung to his friend's arm, but Magnus
threw him off.

That there was no mistake was evident, for
from beyond the filthy painless door came the
hoarse bullying tones of the fellow's voice,
and, unable to contain himself longer, Magnus
dashed open the door, and stepped in.

He was greeted by a volley of oaths, and the
great ruffian started up from a bed upon the
floor where he had evidently thrown himself
down, and as he did so, with a face like ashes
and his teeth set, Magnus covered him with
his pistol.

Artingale was in the doorway, and saw it
all, but stood paralyzed at his friend's act.
But another moment, and the bullet would
have sped upon its deadly errand, when, with
a cry, a woman threw herself between them,
placing herself with her back against Jock's
breast, and her arms thrown up to screen his
face, as, with flaming eyes, she faced the
intruders upon her home.

*^ Stand aside, Ju, I'm not afraid of his
barker," roared the great ruffian, with a blasphemy
; but the woman clung to him and
held him back as the pistol dropped upon the
floor, and Magnus staggered against his friend.

The recognition was mutual, but the woman's
face remained unchanged. It was filled with
the passionate desire to protect the ruffian who
treated her a little worse than he would have
treated his dog ; and as he read the history
of her life in what he saw, Artingale stood
speechless for a few moments, while Jock
swung his defender on one side, strode forward
quickly, and picking up the pistol, put
it in his pocket.

"Julia," exclaimed Artingale, recovering

himself and advancing, '' do you not know
me?"

She looked at him fixedly for a few
moments. Her face began to quiver, and her
hand was slightly raised to take the one he
extended ; but she became rigid directly after,
and turned away to cling to Jock Morrison,
who, with his hands in his pockets, looked
mockingly on.

'' No," she said, in a sharp, harsh voice, as
changed as was her thin, worn, piteous face
from that Artingale had known in better days.
No," she said, "I do not know you ; the
Julia you knew is dead."

"Well," said the great fellow, roughly,
*' have you any more to say to my wife ?
Because if not, go."

Artingale felt like one in a dream, as he fell
back, and the door slammed to ; then slowly
descending, careless of the curious eyes and
scowling looks directed at them, he joined his
friend, and they went back to the studio,
where Magnus threw himself wearily down
and closed his eyes.

But I must do something," exclaimed

Artingale ; and, rushing out, he had himself
driven to Great Scotland yard.

What can you do, my lord ? " said the
officer he saw. " From what you say, the
fellow has married her, and we can't undo
that. I'll take what steps you like, my lord,
but "

But! There was a volume in that one
word, for when afterwards effort after effort
was made to win the wanderer back by
father, mother, sister, all was in vain. She
had spoken truly. The Julia whom Harry
Artingale had known was dead.

It was close upon twelve that same night
that, sick at heart, Artingale returned to his
friend's chambers, to find that Burgess had
been busy preparing supper, feeling sure that
he would return.

Where is your master % " said Artingale.

He said he would go and lie down, sir, till
you came. He thought you would be sure to
come back to-night. But oh, my lord — oh
sir," cried the poor fellow piteously, "can't
you do something to make poor master what
he was ? This is weary work indeed ! "

'^ I don't know, Burgess. I can't say. I'll
try, but I hope lie will be better now."

I hope and pray he mays, sir," said the
man, fervently ; and Artingale went on into
the bed-room, to see that his friend had placed
Julia's picture on the easel at the farther side
of the bed in full sight from where he lay ;
and as the young man's eyes lighted upon the
prostrate figure, he uttered a cry which brought
in the man.

Quick, Burgess, quick ! The nearest
doctor."

A fruitless errand : James Magnus, after his
long and weary pilgrimage, was resting peacefully
where there is no dreaming of revenge.

Of a broken heart ! So it was said, for the
secret was well kept. There are men who
dare to make the rush headlong from this
world.

BOOK Il-THE BARRISTER'S DAY.

CHAPTER I.
IN CHAMBERS.

"With a rum-tum, tum-tum, tiddy-iddy
turn, tiddy-rum-tum, tiddy-iddy bang ! "

This was sung in a low-pitched, not unmusical
voice, by a stunted, thickly-set lad of
seventeen or eighteen, being his version of the
well-known " March of the British Grenadiers
'' ; and as he puffed forth the air in
imitation of a wind instrument, the musical
youth paraded the well-furnished office he
occupied, with an enormous ebony ruler over
his shoulder, held sword-fashion, and the stove
poker in his left hand carried like a scabbard.

He was so far on the alert that he kept one
eye upon a green baize-covered inner door,
evidently leading into a private room, but not

sufficiently watchful to see that another door
had been opened, for as he got through a
second strain of the march he called, softly, in
imitation of a commanding officer, " Halt ! —
right about face. Band to the front ! '^ Then
his jaw dropped, and he made a bound to his
desk.

The reason of this change was that a
stern, dry-looking, well-dressed man stood
there, with an umbrella in one hand, 'a blue
bag in the other, and he did not smile, but
showed his teeth slightly, as he saw the lad's
confusion.

'' Drilling, eh ? " he said, shutting the door
close behind him. " Going to join the army ?"

^' No, sir," said the boy, smartly.

Of course not," said the visitor. " Much
too short."

Please, sir, I can't help that," said the
boy, whose face was now scarlet; *sand I
shall grow."

Only wiser, boy," said the visitor, ^' not
taller. Wiser ; and then you won't go and be
shot at for a few pennies a day. Mr. Eoss in 1 "

^' Don't know, sir. I'll see," said the boy.

Yes, you do know," snarled the visitor ;
and lie is in, or else you wouldn't have gone
about on tiptoe. Take in my card."

Mr. Swift, Cripple and Swift," read the
boy.

Yes, and be quick. Time's money, boy."

Yes, sir. Take a chair, sir," said the lad,
whose martial ardour had cooled into business ;
and he opened the baize door, let it close
behind him, and knocked at the panel of an
inner door, the knock sounding muffled and
distant to the visitor.

Come in ! "

The boy entered a handsomely-furnished
room, in the middle of whose Turkey carpet
was a large, well-drawers writing-table,
covered with papers tied up in red and green
tape. On one side was a handsome, polished
wardrobe, half open, displaying, hanging from
pegs, a couple of barrister's gowns, looking
in the dim interior like a couple of old-fashioned
clergymen hung up to dry, or for
some other reason.

In another polished-wood cupboard, with
glass doors partly covered with blinds, were

apparently a couple of stuffed barristers in
their wigs, gazing mournfully through the
glass at the opening door of the office, till a
second inspection showed them to be wig-blocks,
with their legal horsehair burdens grey
and stiff.

Cases full of thick volumes, a couple of
busts of famous judges in their wigs, and here
and there an almanac, a pale blue sheet of
paper, printed with the dates of various
judges' circuits, and, lastly, a tall oaken case
full of pigeon-holes studied to overflowing
with legal papers, formed the surroundings of
him who said " Come in."

The speaker was in a dressing-gown and
slippers, seated at the writing-table, with his
head resting upon his hands, evidently studying
intently the contents of certain sheets of
paper, closely written in a clear round hand,
but with a broad margin, whereon from time
to time the reader made notes, by means of a
gold pencil-case.

His face was bant so low that nothing but
the broad forehead was visible when he set
one hand at liberty to write; but it could

be seen that this broad, open brow was lined
by study, and the dark hair was cut off closely
to the reader's head.

He did not look up when the boy entered,
but said, in a quick, decided voice —

'' Well, Dick ? "

'^ Gentleman to see you, sir'' said the boy;
and he placed a card upon the writing-table,
at which card the reader glanced, but without
changing his position.

H'm, Mr. Swift," he said. " Show him in."

The visitor needed scarcely any showing, for
as the boy went back he was ready to step in
at once, and his stern, harsh, rather unpleasant
face seemed to wear a satisfied air as he took
all in at a glance.

Good morning, Mr. Koss," he said, as the
reader rose and showed the face of Luke Ross,
twelve years older, and pale and thin, but with
his dark eyes, rather deeply set, now full of
vigorous intelligence, as he seemed to look his
visitor through and through, and motioned
him to a seat with a wave of a thin, delicate
white hand, upon which shone a heavy un ornamented
signet ring.

VOL. m. M

"I think you know our name, Mr. Eoss,"
said the visitor, with an air of self-satisfaction,
as he laid his blue bag across his knees.

"Perfectly well, Mr. Swift," said Ross,
quietly. " I was against you in that shipping
case last week."

** Yes, sir, you were," said the visitor, with
a smile that looked like a snarl ; " and you
beat us, sir — beat Phillips — and that's why
I have come."

Mr. Phillips worked very hard for your
client, Mr. Swift," said Luke, quietly. " I
presume that you bear no malice '? " he added,
with a smile.

'' Malice, sir — malice, Mr. Ross ? Ha, ha,
ha ! That's very good, sir — uncommonly good.
I'll tell Cripple as soon as I return."

*^ I know you'll excuse me, Mr. Swift," said
the young barrister, glancing at his watch,
'* if I tell you that my time is very much
occupied."

Of course ! To be sure. Yes, my dear
sir," said the visitor, busily opening his blue
bafif. " I know it is. But as it was our first
affair with you, I thought I would come on

myself instead of sending our clerk. There,
sir," he exclaimed, drawing out a folded packet
of papers, tied up with tape, " I have come to
show you how we bear malice, sir — our first
brief."

As he spoke he handed the papers to Luke
Ross with the triumphant smile of one who is
conferring a great favour, and then, throwing
himself back in his chair, he looked quite
disappointed as the barrister just glanced at
the endorsement on the brief, which, among
other words, bore certain hieroglyphics in a
crabbed hand — " 15 gs!'

I am sorry to have troubled you to come,
Mr. Swift," said Luke, in a quiet, grave voice,
that was very impressive, and, though low,
seemed to fill the room, " but I really must
decline."

'' Decline ! " exclaimed the solicitor, flushing.
Do you know, Mr. Ross, that this may mean
an enormous number of briefs from our firm,
sir — a very fortune ? "

Luke bowed.

You are a young man, Mr. Ross — excuse
me for saying so, sir — just making a name in

M 2

your profession. Do I understand you aright,
sir ? Our firm, sir, stands high."

Perfectly aright, Mr. Swift," replied Luke,
in a voice that quite seemed to silence the
solicitor, who refreshed himself with a hastily-taken
pinch of snuff, and shut the lid of his
box with a loud snap. "I know your firm
well, sir ; but, as you are aware," he added,
with a grave smile, " there are limits to even
an enterprising barrister's powers, and the
profession has been kind enough to give me
more than I care to undertake."

"Ah, exactly, sir — of course — yes," said
Mr. Swift, smiling, and nodding his head.
'exactly so, my dear sir. Will you allow
me?"

Luke bowed, and before he had quite realized
his visitor's intentions, he had caught up a quill
pen, and, rapidly dipping it, altered the fifteen
on the back of the brief with a couple of touches
into twenty-five, blotted it, and handed it to
the young barrister, who raised his hand not
to take the brief, but to decline.

"I am sorry, Mr. Swift," he said, "but I
have sent back a couple of briefs this morning

marked precise as you have endorsed that.
I am obliged to decline. Try Mr. Norris, or
Mr. Enrich, on this staircase. I am sure
they will be glad to accept the brief."

The solicitor stared in astonishment, took
out his snuff-box, put it back again, and then
exclaimed sharply —

But I want you, sir, you."

Then," said Luke, smiling, ^' I am afraid
you weill have to double the fee upon the brief,
Mr. Swift. So much work has come to me of
late, that I have been compelled to make that
my fee."

"And with a refresher, sir?" said the
solicitor, dropping the patronizing air for one
of increased respect.

And with a refresher, sir," replied the
young barrister.

Mr. Swift glanced from him to the brief he
had been studying and back.

Why, you are not in Regina versus Fin-lawson,
sir 'i " he said. " Morley and Shorter
told me that they had given the brief to someone,
endorsed fifty."

"I am the humble individual, Mr. Swift,"

said Luke, who in this calm, grave way seemed
to be amused.

Without another word the solicitor snatched
up the quill, dipped it, and dashing out the
twenty-five guineas, rapidly wrote above it
50 gsr

There, sir," he said, blotting it with a
bang upon the writing-table, " we must have
you, sir. We want to have you, Mr. Eoss.
You will take this for us — it's for the prosecution,
sir, — a most important case. It is,
really, sir."

"It is astonishing how often the case is
most important in the eyes of the firm of
solicitors, and how very ordinary it turns out,
Mr. Swift, when ifc comes into court. But
there, Mr. Swift, I'll do my best for your
client," and he rose.

The solicitor took the hint, and picked up
his hat and blue bag.

Thank you, Mr. Ross ; thank you, sir. I
am very, very glad. Our first brief, Mr. Ross.
The first, sir, of many. Good morning."

He shook hands with a look of the most
profound veneration for the eminent young

legal light, whose brilliancy was beginning to
be discussed a good deal, both in and out of
court.
• " Good morning, Mr. Swift," said Luke.
I'll try and get you a verdict."

'' You will, sir ; I'm sure yon will," said the
solicitor, bowing as he reached the door, and
then hurrying back. " One moment, Mr. Eoss
a word from an old limb of the law, sir.
You are a young man, and not above listening
to advice."

Certainly not," said Luke, smiling, "if it
be good."

'Tis good, sir. Take it. Do away with
that boy, and have a quiet, elderly clerk,
sir. Gives dignity to your office. Good
morning"

He nodded this time, and shut the door
after him, carefully opened the baize portal,
and passed through that, to change his whole
aspect as he found a very tall, thin, cadaverous-looking
man, in glossy black, and with a
heavy gold eye-glass swinging outside his
buttoned-up stout.

The countenance of the tall, thin man

changed a little, too ; but they shook hands
warmly.

Won't do, Hampton, if you've come about
the Esdaile case," he said.

Never you mind what I've come about,"
said the tall man, with asperity.

"Oh, I don't, my dear sir, for we've got
Koss for the prosecution."

Con Tut, tut, tut. Oh, hang it.

Swift, this is too bad."

Ha, ha, ha ! " laughed the solicitor.

But, look here, honour bright ? "

Honour bright, my dear sir. Go and ask
him."

I'll take your word. Swift. Give me a
pinch of snufF. What, have you endorsed the
brief, eh ? "

The solicitor whispered.

Have you, though ? Well, I should have
done the same. It will be silk one of these
days."

Safe, sir, safe," said the other ; and they
went out together, just as a cab stopped at the
end of the narrow lane, and, looking very thin
and old, and dry, but bright and active still,

old Michael Ross stepped out ; and then, with
a very shabby, long old carpet bag in one hand,
and a baggy green umbrella, with staghorn
handle, in the other, trotted down the incline
into .the Temple till he reached the staircase,
at the foot of which, on one of the door-posts,
was painted a column of names.

Hah ! " said the old man, smiling, as he
set down his bag, and balanced a clumsy pair
of glasses on his nose, holding them up with
one hand. " This is it. Number nine.
Ground floor, Mr. Sergeant Towle ; Mr.
Barnard, Q.C. First floor, Mr. Ross."

- "Hah ! " he muttered, with a chuckle, "first
floor, Mr. Ross. I wonder whether he's at home.

No," he ejaculated. " That's wrong.
Should be, ' I wonder whether he's in court.' "

The old man stopped short in the entry,
with the door leading to Mr. Sergeant Towle's
chambers before, and that leading to the
chambers of Mr. Barnard, Q.C, behind, and
drew forth his washed-out and faded red
cotton handkerchief.

I wonder whether he'll be glad to see me,"
he said. "I'm only a shabby-looking old

fellow, and I dare say I've brought the smell
of the tan-pits with me ; and they tell me my
son is getting to be quite a famous lawyer —
quite the gentleman, too. Ah, it's a great
change — a great change. And I didn't tell
him I was coming ; and perhaps it isn't right
to take him so by surprise. He oughtn't
like it."

The old man rubbed his damp fingers on
his handkerchief, and looked about him ina
troubled, helpless way.

I feel always so mazed-like in this noisy
London," he said, weakly ; " and if he was
hurt about my coming it would about break
my heart, that it would."

The handkerchief was on its way up to his
eyes, where the weak tears were gathering,
when there was the sound of voices in the
chambers of Mr. Sergeant Towle, and, snatching
up his bag, the old man trotted, pretty
nimbly, up the stone stairs to the first floor,
where, upon the pale drab door, there was
the legend, ''Mr. Eoss."

'*Mr. Ross," said the old man, chuckling to
himself. ''Mr. Ross. That's my son. God

i

bless him ! My son ; and I'd have given a
hundred golden pounds if my dear old wife
had been alive, and could have stood here
and seen his name writ large and famous on
a door in London town like that."

He stood admiring it for some minutes, and
then hesitated, as if overcome by the importance
of his son; but at last he raised the
big umbrella, and tapped gently with the
staghorn beak.

It was a very modest knock, and it was not
answered, so at the end of five minutes he
knocked again.

This time Mr. Richard Dixie — Dicky Dix,
as he was familiarly called — verified the words
of Mr. Swift, the solicitor (Cripple and Swift,
of Gresham-street), by staring hard at the
shabby-looking little old man and his bag,
and then coming a little way out to stare at
the doorpost, to the surprise of old Ross.

It ain't broke," said the boy.

What isn't broke, sir ? " said the old man,
humbly.

That ' sir ' was like so much nerve to one
who did not need it ; and, turning sharply to

the old man, lie gave another glance at the
shabby bag.

Then what do you want to come a banging
at the door with your old umbrella for ? "

"I didn't see the bell, sir'' said the old
man, humbly. " Is — is your master in ? "

Got anything to sell ? " said the boy,
sharply.

"To sell, sir? Yes; a good deal. The
market's been very bad lately. Is your master,
Mr. Ross, in ? "

No, he ain't," said the boy, sharply.
Don't want any. Take your bag somewhere
else. We gets ours at the stationer's."

The old man stood aghast, for the boy gave
his bag a kick and shut the door to sharply,
without another word.

He's a quick, sharp boy," said the old
man ; " very impudent though. A regular
London boy ; and Luke's out. Well, well,
v/ell, I've come a long way to see him, and
I can wait," and without another word, the old
man seated himself patiently at the foot of
the next flight of stairs, placing his bag beside
him, and his green umbrella across his knees.

CHAPTER 11.

IN TROUBLE.

Sage ? What— down-stairs ? " cried Mrs.
Portlock. " Don't say they're in trouble again,
Joseph."

Why not ? " said the Churchwarden,
slowly. ^' Come along down, and make the
poor girl some warm tea. She's been travelling:
all nifyht, and has brought the two
little ones with her."

"I'll be down directly," said Mrs. Portlock;
^' but what is the matter ? "

Trouble, trouble, trouble," said the Churchwarden,
slowly. " Hang the laws. I'd give
something if I could take her away from him,
and keep her at home, children and all. It
would come a deal cheaper, old lady."

''Oh, but you are too hard on him, Joseph,
indeed you are. Cyril is very, very fond of
her and his children."

Bah ! I never knew him fond of anything
but himself, and what money he could get."

There, if you are in that kind of temper,
Joseph, it is of no use for me to speak to
you. I'll be down directly ; but won't Sage
come up ? "

"No, I've made her lie down on the sofa by
the fire. She's worn out, and the little ones
are fast asleep. I've told the girls to hurry
on the breakfast."

But how foolish of her to travel in the
night. How did they come from the station ? "

A man brought them in a cart. Poor
things ! they are half perished."

"Dear, dear, dear, dear me," said Mrs.
Portlock, hastily dressing. " What troubles
there are in this world."

Yes, if people make 'em."

But what is wrong with Cyril ? "

Oh, nothing particular," said the Churchwarden,
bitterly, "only he's in trouble again."

In trouble ? "

"Yes, ill trouble. Don't shout about it and
frighten the poor girl more."

But what does it mean ? "

"Oh, some trouble over old Walker's affairs.
Sage says she is sure he is innocent. Heaven
knows I hope he is."

But what made her come down ? "

What made her come down, old lady ?
Why, what was the poor wench to do, a woman
with a couple of little children ? There, it
seems a sin to say so, but it's a blessing the
others died."

Oh, for shame, Joseph ! " cried Mrs. Port-luck,
whose trembling; old fingers were in great
trouble over various strings.

I don't care," said the Churchwarden,
whose hair was white now, but who looked
as sturdy and well as ever ; "I wish she
had never seen the scoundrel."

Joseph, if you talk like that, you'll break
the poor girl's heart."

"I'm not going to talk to her like that, but
I suppose I may to you. Here have they been
married close upon twelve years, and what
have they been but twelve years of misery 1 "

There lias been a deal of trouble certainly,"
sighed Mrs. Portlock. " What time
is it now ? ^'

Half-past six. Make haste. He was held
to be all that was steady and right at that
Government appointment, and six months after
his marriage they kicked him out."

But Sage always said, dear, that they
behaved very ill to Cyril."

Of course she did, and she believed it,
poor lass.; but if half that I heard of him was
true, rd have kicked him out at the end of
three months instead of six."

*' It's very, very shocking," sighed Mrs.
Portlock, getting something in a knot.

Then he gets his mother's money ; poor
soul, she'd have sold herself for that boy."

'' Yes ; she's very, very fond of him."

There was enough for them to have lived
in comfort to the end of their days, if he
hadn't bet and squandered the property all
away."

I'm afraid he was a little reckless,"
sighed Mrs. Portlock.

Reckless ? He was mad. Then, when it

was gone, it was money, money, money : never
a month passing but there was a letter from
poor Sage, begging for money."
But she couldn't help it, dear."
Think I don't know that," cried the
Churchwarden, striding to and fro. " He
forced her to write, of course ; and we sentit,
but not for him. If it hadn't been for her
and the bairns, not a penny of my hard
savings would he ever have seen."
But he has been better lately."
Better ? Ha, ha, ha ! So it seems. Wait
till we know all. Five thousand pounds gone
in that wine merchant's business."

AVell, but, Joseph, dear, you would have
left it to them after we were dead. Wasn't
it better to give it to them at once ? "

Yes, if it was for their good," said the
Churchwarden. " What is it ? Four years
ago, and Mallow said, ' No,' — I remember his
words as well as if it. were only yesterday —
No,' he said, ' I think we've done enough.
My wife's money has all gone to him, and I
will not impoverish myself further. I think
it is your turn, now.' "

VOL. III. N

^'AVell, Joseph," said Mrs. Portlock, who
lead nearly arrived at the stage of dressing
that calls for a cap, " that was only fair."

Oh, yes, it was fair enough; and I wouldn't
have orrudo;ed it if Cyril had been like other
men. Five thousand pounds hard savings I
paid down that he might go into partnership
with old Walker in that wine trade."

"Well, and I'm sure they seem to have
done well for some time, Joseph ; and see what
a nice present of wine Cyril sent you every
Christmas. Yes, for five Christmas presents,
Joseph."

Every one of which cost me a thousand
pounds, old lady, and the interest. Dear
presents — dear presents."

But he was getting on well, Joseph, and
he seemed so steady ; and I'm sure he was
very fond of Sage."

Fond of Sage ! " cried the old farmer,
bitterly. " Don't tell me. How can a man
be fond of his wife when he spends every
penny he can get on himself, and then turns
the woman he swore to protect into a begging-letter
writer ? "

*' But what does it all mean ? Only the
other day, dear," said Mrs. Portlock, whose
hands trembled, and who seemed sadly agitated,
" we heard that old Mr. Walker had
died, and I thought it meant that now Cyril
would have the business all to himself."

"Yes, and he has had it all to himself,"
said the Churchwarden, bitterly. " But comedown,
and speak gently to her, poor darling.
Let's do all we can to make the best of things."

o

The Churchwarden had let the angry excitement
escape in the presence of his wife, and
there was a notable change in his manner ashe
softly followed her down into the old
parlour, where a bonny fire was blazing, and
Sage Mallow had changed her position to the
easy chair, so that her little ones might enjoy
the comfort of the broad old sofa drawn, as it
was, before the glow.

They were fast asleep, the two pretty little
girls, with their tangled hair, in a close
embrace, and warmly covered with a great
rug, while their mother lay back in the chair,
looking twenty years older than on the day
she accompanied Cyril Mallow to the church.

X 2

Her face was pinched and pale, and about her
lips there was that strange compression that
tells of suffering, weariness, and an aching heart.

A sigh broke involuntarily from the Churchwarden's
breast, as with tender solicitude he
went down on one knee, and drew a shawl
over the sleeping mother's arms.

It was softly done, but Sage started into
wakefulness, and then, seeing who was there,
her dilate and frightened eyes softened with
tears as she threw her arms round his neck,
and hid horace in his breast, sobbing hysterically,
but in a low weary way.

'' Oh, uncle, uncle 1 "

"My poor bairn, my dear bairn," he
whispered, drawing her closer to his breast,
and softly caressing her hair. " There, there,
there, don't cry, don't cry. As long as there's
a roof at Kirby, and we're alive, there's a
home for you, my darling, and the little
ones. So come, come, come, cheer up ! "

'but my husband," she said, wildly, as she
looked up, and, for the first time, saw that
Mrs. Portlock was present. "Oh, auntie,
auntie," she wailed, almost in a whisper, as

she cast an anxious glance at the sleeping
children, " I'm in such trouble, and such grief.
What shall I do ? "

She quitted her uncle's embrace now, to lay
her head, with the weariness of a sick child,
upon the old lady's breast.

There, there," whispered her aunt, with all
the sharp jerkiness of manner gone. " Cheer
up a bit, aud we'll see what's to be done.
You did quite right to come down. Uncle
and I will take care of you and the bairns."

But I must go back directly," said Sage,
sitting up and smoothing her hair. " I came
down to ask uncle and Mr. Mallow to help us,
but Mr. Mallow is so angry with Cyril that I
am almost afraid to go."

Oh, I'll go and have a talk to him, my
darling," said the Churchwarden ; " and we'll
see if we can't set things a bit riorht. Ah,
that's better," he cried, as one of the maids
entered with a hot cup of tea " There, my
dear, drink that. Don't wait, Anne."

The girl, who was staring open-mouthed,
left the room, and, after some persuasion. Sage
drank the tea.

I want to tell you, uncle," she cried, after
holding her hands for a few moments to her
temples, as if her head was confused, and her
thoughts wandering away. " I want to tell
you all, but I seem to be hearing the rattle
of the train in my head, and jolting over the-road
in that cart, with the children crying
with the cold."

But they are fast asleep, and comfortable
now, my girl," said the Churchwarden, soothingly.
" Suppose you have a nap, and tell us
all your trouble later on."

'' No, no," she cried, " I must tell you now
for I want to get back to Cyril."

She stared about so wildly that the Churchwarden
and his wife exchanged glances.

Is Cyril at home, then ? " said Portlock,.
as if to help her regain the current of her
thoughts.

"Home?" she cried. ''No: we have no
home. Everything has been seized and sold ;
and we have been changing about from lodging
to lodging, for Cyril did not wish to be seen."

Not wash to be seen ? "

"No, uncle, dear. He said the failure of

the firm was so painful to him since Mr.
Walker's death ; and that the representatives
of the poor old man had forced the estate
into bankruptcy, and were behaving very
badly to him."

'' Humph ! "

'people have behaved so very, very cruelly
to him, and set about such dreadful stories ;
but you will not believe them, dear ? He is
my husband, and he has been very, very
unfortunate."

'' Very, my dear," said her uncle, drily.

He has tried so hard," cried Sage, excitedly,
*' and fought so bravely to make a fortune ;
but the world has always been against him,
do what he would."

'shah, yes," said the Churchwarden, with a
sigh. "But if people would be content with
a good living, and not want to make fortunes,
what trouble would be saved."

Oh, don't : pray don't you turn against
him, uncle, dear," sobbed Sage, piteously.

No, my child," said the Churchwarden,
gazing tenderly in her sad, thin face. " I
shall not turn against him for your sake. But

you lead better tell me all. You say lie is in
trouble, but innocent ? "

She gazed wildly from one to the other.

"I dare not," she moaned, as she covered
her face with her hands, and shuddered.

Dare not ? "

Yes, I dare," she cried, proudly throwing
up her head. " It is not true. Cyril has his
faults, but it is a cruel invention of spiteful
enemies. It is a lie'

She stood up proudly defiant, ready to fight
the world on her husband's behalf, and seemed
half angry with her uncle's want of enthusiasm
as he said, quietly —

*' Tell me then, my dear. What do they
say?"

"That he has committed forgery, and robbed
poor old Mr. Walker, who, they say, died of a
broken heart at the disgrace of the failure."

And where is Cyril, now ? " said the
Churchwarden, whose forehead had grown full
of deeper lines.

Oh, uncle," Sage cried, throwing herself
upon her knees, and shuddering as she covered
her face with her hands. " He was sitting

with me last night, and — Oh, I cannot bear
it, I cannot bear it," she wailed — "the police
came. They said it was a warrant, and — oh,
uncle, help me, pray help me, for I have but
you to cling to. My husband is in prison
now. AVhat shall I do ? "

CHAPTER III.

LUKE Ross Heads NEWS.

Old Michael Ross sat very patiently outside
his son's chambers, watching the door, and
finding enough satisfaction in reading over the
name, ' Mr. Ross,' again and again.

It's not a grand place to look at," he said
to himself; 'but they tell me he's growing
quite a big man. I read for myself what he
says to the judges in court sometimes ; and
it's a very great thing for my son to be allowed
to talk to them."

Then he had to move to allow some one
to pass up, and soon after he had again to
move for some one to pass down, and each
time he rose those who passed looked keenly
at the countrified old gentleman, with his
carpet-bag and umbrella, but no one spoke.

*' I did see how many people there are in
London," said the old man to himself. '' Three

millions, I think it was ; and yet what a
strange dull place it is, and how lonesome a
man can feel. Ah ! " he said, sadly, " if my
son was to be vexed because I have come up,
and not be glad to see me, I think I should
seem to be all alone in the world."

Just then the door opened, and the little
clerk came out with a felt hat stuck very
much on one side of his head.

He started as he saw the old man seated
patiently waiting, and after closing the door
he said, sharply —

Now then, old chap, what are you stopping
for ? "

I was waiting to see my — to see Mr. Eoss,"
said the old man, who seemed quite humbled
by the greatness of his son.

Didn't I tell you he wasn't at home ? "
said the boy.

Yes, sir ; and I was going to wait till he
returned."

It's of no use to wait ; he don't want to
see you."

"Do you think not?" said the old man
humbly.

"I'm sure he don't. What have you got to
sell?"

Skins, sir, skins, principally sheep," said
the tanner, respectfully.

Well, look here : just you be off. The
governor buys all his skins when he wants 'em
at the law stationers, but he hardly ever uses
one. It's the solicitors who do that. Now
then, off you go."

Just then the door opened, and a well-known
voice called " Dick" loudly, the speaker
coming out on to the stone landing, and then
starting with surprise.

Why, father ! " he exclaimed. " You here ?
I am glad to see you. Eeally, I am glad to
see you."

The grave, stern way of speaking was gone,
and it was Luke Ross of a dozen years before
who was shaking the old man by the hands,
and then patting him affectionately on the
shoulders, the old man dropping umbrella and
bag, and the tears starting to his weak old
eyes, as he saw his son's genuine pleasure at
the encounter.

Come along in, father," continued Luke.

Here, Dick, pick up those things and bring
them in'

Dick screwed up his face and stared.

I — I'll pick them up, Luke, my hoy,"
quavered the old man, glancing at the young
clerk.

No, no ; he'll bring them in, father," said
Luke, drawing the old man into the office and
into his private room, where he thrust him
into the most comfortable chair, and then
stood over him smiling with pleasure, seeming
as if he could hardly make enough of the
little, shrunken old man.

Just come up, I suppose ? " cried Luke.

Yes, my boy, yes," said old Michael,
wiping his eyes ; '' but I've been sitting out
there on the stairs these two hours."

Sitting out there ! Why didn't you ring'?"^

I did knock, my boy, and that lad of yours
said you were out, and told me to go away ;
and if I had known you were in all the time,
my boy, I should have gone away thinking
you didn't want to see your old father. Did
you tell him to say you were out, Luke ? "

The young scoundrel ! no," cried Luke.

'* I'm afraid lie's a very wicked boy, then,"
piped the old man, " a very wicked boy. But
are you glad to see me again, Luke ? "

Glad to see you, my dear old father ?
Why, yes, yes, you know I am. Come, come,
come, or you'll make me weak too."

"Ye — ye — yes, my boy, it is weak," quavered
the old fellow, wiping his eyes hastily ; " but
Tm getting very old now, Luke. I was a
middle-aged man when I married your dear
mother, and I'm seventy-nine now, and not so
strong as I was, and — and I got fancying as I
came up that now you had grown to be such a
great man you wouldn't want to see such a
shabby old fellow as I am at your chambers."

For shame, father ! " cried Luke, reproachfully.
" What cause have I ever given you
for thinking that ? "

"None at all, my boy, none at all. God
bless you ! You're a good lad, and I'm very
proud of you, Luke, very proud of you, and
and I am so glad to see you again. Luke,
my boy," he said, rising, and his tremulous
old hands played caressingly about his son's
shoulders, " I'm a very old fellow now, and I

dare say this is the last time I shall come to
town."

Oh, no, no, no, father, you'll make plenty
of journeys up yet."

'^ No, my boy, no," said the old fellow,
calmly ; and he shook his head. " It can't
be ; my next journey may be the long one,
never to come back again, my boy."

*' Oh, father, come, come," cried Luke, " don't
talk like that."

'^ Why not, my boy ? " said the old man,
smiling ; "it must come to that soon, and it
never seems to trouble me now ; but, Luke,
my boy, would you — would you mind this
once if — if I — if I — you were a little boy once,
Luke, and I have always been so proud of
5^ou, and though you — you have grown to be
such a great man, you seem only my boy still,
and I should like to once more before I die."

'like to what, father?" cried the young man,
smiling at his elder's affectionate earnestness.

I should like to kiss you, my boy — for the
last time," faltered the old man, humbly.

My dear old father ! "

It was all that was heard save a muffled

sob, as Luke strained the old man to his
breast, and position — the present — all was forgotten,
as father and son stood there feeling as
if five-and-twenty years had dropped away.

Now," said Luke, as the old man, with a
happy smile upon his face, resumed his chair,
the younger half seating himself upon the
writing-table before him. '' Now then, father''
said Luke, merrily, " am I glad to see you "? "

Yes, yes, my boy, I know you are ; " and
the old man took one of the delicate white
hands in his, and gazed round the room. " I
like your new chambers, my boy. Much
better than the old ones. The furniture's
very nice ; but you never wrote to your poor
old father for fifty or a hundred pounds to
buy it," he said, reproachfully.

"There was no need, father," said Luke,
smiling. " I am making a good deal of
money now."

Are you though ? I'm glad of it. You
ought to : you're so clever ; but you never
come down, my boy."

Luke's brow clouded.

I haven't the heart, father," he said, after

a pause. " Come and see me instead ; and if
I don't write so often as I should, it is really
because I spend so much time in study and
hard work."

Yes, of course, my boy, so you must.
But — but you haven't asked me why I came
up."

To see me, of course," said Luke.

Well, yes, my boy, I did; but you — you
haven't the heart to come down ? "

Luke shook his head.

Do you — do you think," — the old man
held his son's hand in both his own, and
looked timidly in his face, '"' do you think
about her still, my boy ? "

"Every day, father," said the young man,
sternly. " I always shall."

"Yes, yes, my boy. That is why I came
up. I came to tell you, my boy : she's in
very great trouble."

Trouble ! " said Luke, quickly ; and his
voice sounded hoarse and strange — " again ? "

Yes, yes, my boy. I knew you would
like to know."

Luke snatched his hand away, and paced

VOL. III. O

up and down the room several times before
stopping in front of the old man once more.

Has — has she been down, father ? "

"Yes, my boy, she came down with her
two little girls."

Did you see her ? " said Luke, hoarsely.

"Yes, my boy. 1 had to go to Churchwarden
Portlock about some skins, and he
took me into the room where she was, and
she shook hands. Poor girl, poor girl, she's
strange and changed."

Changed, father ? "

Yes ;. old and careworn, and as if she'd
suffered a deal of trouble."

Luke Ross's head went down upon his
breast, and his voice was almost inaudible ashe
said—

What is her trouble now ? "

You have heard nothing, then, my boy ? "

No, father, nothing."

Not that the wine merchant's business has
all come to bankruptcy ? "

No, father ; but I am not surprised. He
will always be a beggar. That is her trouble,
the. She is back home ? "

Oil, no, my boy ; she is in London. She
would not leave her husband. Churchwarden
Portlock came up with her, for it is a terrible
trouble this time."

Indeed, father ! Why ? "

They say he has committed forgery, my
boy, and done no end of ill, and — and "

And what, father ? " cried Luke, whose
eyes were flashing with eagerness.

He has been cast into prison, my boy,
and they say it is a terribly bad case."



CHAPTEE IV.

AN IMPORTANT BRIEF.

Luke Koss sat on the edge of his table fora
few minutes gazing into vacancy, and at
times it was with a look akin to triumph that
he pondered upon the fall of the man who had
been his one enemy — him who had seemed to
turn the whole current of his life.

But as the old man watched his countenance,
a sadder, softer mood came over it, and he
said, as he turned once more to meet his
father's eyes —

Poor girl ! It is terrible, indeed."

Very, very terrible, my boy ; and they
say poor Mrs. Mallow is dying. Surely our
poor parson has much to bear — much, indeed,
to bear."

There was a few minutes' silence, and then

Luke turned to his father, and his lips moved
to speak, but no words came for a time. At
kst he said —

"Do you know where Mrs. Cyril Mallow is
staying, father *? "

Yes, my boy. Portlock told me, and
asked me to go and see them if I came up."

Go, then, father, and if you can help him,
do so. I cannot go, but you — you could.
Help Mr. Portlock if you can, and come to me
for what you require. Poor girl," he added, to
himself, " what a fate it is. Poor girl — poor
girl ! "

I — I didn't think you would take on about
it quite so much, my boy ; but I thought I
ought to tell you about it all."

"Yes, yes, father; it was quite right. I
am glad you came up."

It's — it's all about money, my boy, that
Cyril Mallow has got into trouble."

Yes, father, I suppose so," said Luke,
whose thoughts were evidently in another
direction.

I liked Sage Portlock — I always did like
her, my boy ; and as you are getting on so

well, and don't want the money I've scraped
up for you, I wouldn't mind helping her in her
trouble."

It's very good of you, father," said the
young man, smiling sadly.

But it would be like pouring money into
a well if her husband gets hold of it."

"If it is a case "such as you describe,
father," said Luke, thoughtfully, " I doubt
whether money would be of much good."

The old man looked very anxiously at his
son, even with a kind of awe, as if he were
afraid of him.

I don't like to ask him," he muttered, " I
don't like to ask him;" and he took out his
old faded handkerchief and began nervously
wiping his hands upon it, till Luke, in his
abstraction, turned his eyes upon him with a
vacant look that gradually became intense, as
his father grew more nervous and troubled of
mien.

As the old man shrank and avoided the
gaze which drew him back, as it were, to look
appealingly in the stern, searching eyes of
his son, Luke spoke to him with the sharpness

of one trying to master an evading witness, so
that the old man started as the young barrister
exclaimed —

What is it, father ? You are keeping
something back."

I — I hardly liked to say it, my boy. Don't
be angry with me''

Angry with you ! What nonsense, father.
But speak out. What is it ? You want to
say something to me."

Ye — es, my boy, I do. But give me your
hand, and don't speak so sharp and angrily tome.
I'm — I'm getting old and nervous now,
and a very little seems to upset me. I don't
even like to walk amongst the tan-pits now,
where I used to run without being a bit afraid.
Thank you, my boy, thank you," he continued,
nervously, as Luke caught and held his hand.

'^ It's a way I have of speaking, father," he
said, " Angry ? With you ? Why my dear
father, how could I be ? "

I — I don't know, my boy ; but you promise
me that you won't be angry ? "

Not a bit, father," cried Luke, with assumed
cheeriness. " There, dad, I promise

you I won't even be cross if you have been
and married a young wife."

Me ? Married a young wife ? Ha ! ha !
ha ! That's very funny of you, my boy, very
funny; but I haven't done that, Luke ; I haven't
done that. I married at eight and-thirty,
Luke, and once was enough. But you won't
be. angry ? "

No, no, not a bit. Now come, confess.
What is it ? I hope you haven't been investing
in some shaky company."

Oh no, my boy, not L My bit of money
has all been put in land, every hundred I
could spare out of the business. But you said,
my boy, you — you wanted to help Mrs. Cyril."

Luke's countenance changed again, but he
nodded, and said hastily —

Yes, father, of course. What can I do ? "

She— she said "

'' Who ? Mrs. Cyril Mallow ? "

Yes, my boy," said the old man, clinging
to him. " Mrs. Cyril, she — she asked me to
come and see you."

"Sage — Mrs. Mallow did?" cried Luke,
sharply.

You promised me, my boy, that you
would not be cross with me," quavered the
old man.

No, no, father, I am not cross, but you
startled me by your words. Did she tell you
to come to me ? "

Yes, my boy, she — she's sadly altered,
Luke, and so sweet and so humble. She
wanted to go down on her knees to me, my
boy, but I wouldn't let her."

Tell me all, father," cried Luke. " Why
are you keeping this back ? "

*' I — I aren't tell you, my boy, at first ; I
dare not, indeed."

"Tell me now, quickly."

She told me to come to you, my boy ; she
said she had heard what a great counsel you
had become."

Luke made an impatient movement.

"And she said that she had no one to
appeal to in her sore distress."

I am not her friend," said Luke, coldly.

But you will be, my boy, when I tell you
that, sobbing bitterly, she asked me to
come to you, and if you had one spark of

feeling for her left, to try and save her
husband."

"" She bade you come and say this, father ? "
cried Luke, with the beads of perspiration
standing upon his brow.

Yes, my son, for the sake of old times
when you were girl and boy together."

Luke drew his hand away, and leaping from
the edge of the table where he had been
sitting, began to pace the room once more,
while the old man sat rubbing his hands up
and down his knees and gazing at him aghast.

Just then there was a sharp knock, and the
boy entered.

Engaged," said Luke, angrily. " I can
see no one ; " and the boy disappeared as if
in alarm.

Lm very, very sorry, my boy," faltered
old Michael; "but "

Luke stopped before him in his hurried
walk.

"Tell me again, father. Did Sage Mallow
say those words ? "

Yes, my boy, almost word for word. She
said she was in despair, that money could not

help her, she wanted some one to save her
husband."

'' Not to help her," said Luke, bitterly,
but to save that man."

Yes, my boy. It's very shocking, for I'm
afraid he's a dreadful scamp ; but you know
what women are."

"Yes," said Luke, with a laugh that startled
his father, " I know what women are."

The bigger scamp a man is the more they
hold by him. Perhaps it's quite right, but it's
very shocking."

Help her to save him," muttered Luke.
I can't do it. I can — not do it."

The old man had now rolled his handkerchief
up into a ball, and was pressing it and
kneading it between his hands, as he gazed
helplessly in his son's face.

I think if she had seen you, and asked
you herself, you would have done it, Luke,
my boy. She said that she believed you
could save her husband, and that if he was
condemned "

I tell you if he were ten times condemned,"
cried Luke, " I could not do it, father. It is

madness to ask me, of all men, to fight on his
behalf.'^

He — lie did behave Very badly to you, my
boy. He's a bad one, I'm afraid ; but he is
that poor creature's husband."

The only enemy I ever had, and you ask
me to save him. It is not in human nature
to do it. Why do you come and ask me such
a thing ? "

"You said you would not be angry with
me, Luke ; and she begged of me so hard, for
the sake of the very old times, she said ; and
then she broke down, and said that if anything
happened to her husband she should die."

Luke walked to the window, and stood
gazing out at the narrow lane below, with
a great struggle going on in his breast. In
his heart there was still left so tender an
affection for Sage that he was ready to save
her. For her sake he had given no thought
to another of her sex, eschewing society, and
devoting himself constantly to his profession ;
and now that his father had raised up before
him, as it were, the face of the suffering wife,
piteous and appealing, as she sent to him her

message, asking, for the sake of old days, that
he would come to her help, he felt that he
must go — must devote his powers to saving
the man she loved.

But it was impossible. He could not. He
would not. He was but a man, he told himself,
and this would be the work of an angel.
No ; he hated Cyril Mallow intensely, as the
man who had robbed him of all he held dear,
at the same time that he despised him in his
honourable heart as a contemptible scoundrel
who would sacrifice any one to gain his own
ends.

Luke was not surprised to hear of Cyril
being in fresh difficulties ; he was ready, also,
to believe that he was guilty, and he was asked
to become this man's advocate, to bring to bear
his twelve years' hard study and self-denial to
try and save him from some richly-merited
punishment. It was too much.

As he stood there, gazing out of the window,
he seemed to see Cyril's mocking, handsome,
triumphant face, as he made him also his slave
one of those whose duty it was to try and
drag him from the slough as soon as ever he

thought proper to step in — one of those who
were to lie down, that he might plant his foot
upon the bended neck, step out into safety,
and leave the helper in the mire.

On the other hand, strive to exclude it ashe
would, there was Sage's appealing face, not
the sweet girlish countenance he knew, but a
face chastened by suffering, full of trust in him
as in one who could and would help her in this
supreme time of her trouble.

He fought against it, but in vain. He told
himself that he should be mad to take up such
a cause ; that men would sneer and say evil
things of him — that it was from no disinterested
motives that he had done this thing ;
but there was ever the appealing face, the
soft pleading eyes seeming to say to him, ''I
was weak and foolish, as well as cruel, in
choosing as I did, but I humble myself now
into the very dust, and ask you to forgive me
and come to my help."

Her very words seemed to say as much, and
a strange thrill of triumph ran through him,
as his eyes flashed, and for the moment he
gloried in Cyril Mallow's disgrace.

He put away the thoughts, though, as a
shame unto him, and folding his arms, he tried
to master himself, to get his mental balance
once again, for it was terribly disturbed by the
strange access of emotion that he felt.

No, he said, when he went down to Kilby
Farm on that never-to-be-forgotten day, Sage
Portlock's life and his own, that had run on
together for so long, had suddenly diverged,
and they had been growing farther and farther
apart ever since. He could not do this thing.
It was impossible. It was a fresh act of
cruelty on Sage's part, and come what might
he would not degrade himself by fighting
Cyril Mallow's cause, only afterwards, if he
saved him, to reap the scoundrel's contempt.

"And I should deserve it," he said, half
aloud.

Yes, my boy," quavered old Michael,
eagerly, as he caught his son's words and
interpreted them to his own wishes. " God
bless you, my boy, I knew you would, and she
said she knew your good and generous heart,
and that niorht bv nis^ht she would teach her
little ones to love and reverence your name,

as they knelt down and prayed for God's
blessing on him who saved their father from
disgrace."

Luke Ross had opened his lips to stop his
father's enthusiastic words, when his excited
fancy pictured before him the soft, sweet, careworn
face of Sage, his old love, bending over
her innocent children, and teaching them, as
she held their little clasped hands, to join his
name in their trusting prayers, and he was
conquered.

He dared not turn, for his face was convulsed,
but, sinking sidewise into a chair, he
rested his head upon his arm, and, hearing his
father approach, motioned with the hand that
was free, for him to keep back.

But the old man did not heed the sign.
He came forward and laid his trembling hand
upon his son's head.

God bless you, my noble boy ! " he said,
fervently. " I knew you would."

Neither spoke then for a time, and when
Luke raised his face once more, it was very
pale, as if he were exhausted by the fight.

Why, father," he said, cheerfully, " I'm

behaving very badly to you. You must want

something to eat."

No, my boy, I had something before I

came in, for fear I should put you out. I

don t want anything else."

"Till dinner-time, father," said Luke, smiling.

'• You and I will dine together and enjoy

ourselves."

But that poor woman, Luke ? "

Well settle all that, father, after dinner.

You shall give me the address, and I will

either get a fresh solicitor to take the matter

up or consult with theirs."

But won't you fight for them, my boy ? "
"To be sure I will, father, and do my best.

But you don't understand these matters ; an

attorney has to draw up the brief."
Of course, yes, of course, my boy."
He brings it to me like this," said Luke,

taking up the one he had been studying,

with all the principal points of the case

neatly written out, as a sort of history, giving

me the particulars necessary, so that I can

master them in a quick, concise way."
Yes, I see, my boy."

VOL. III. p

A good lawyer will, in consultation with
his client, clear away all superfluous matter,
leaving nothing but what is necessary for the
counsel to know."

Yes, my son, same as we first of all get rid
of the refuse from a skin."

Exactly, father," said Luke, smiling ;
^' for clients often think matters of great
moment that are worthless in a court of
law."

"To be sure, yes ; people will talk too
much, my boy, I know," said the old man.
*' Why, Luke, how I should like to hear you
laying down the law in your wig and gown,
my boy. How you must give it to 'em. I've
read about you in the newspaper. Old Mr.
Mallow always brings one to me when he sees
your name in, and shakes hands with me ; and
the tears come in the old fellow's eyes as he
says to me with a sigh, ' Ah, Mr. Koss, I wish
I had had such a son.' "

"Why, father," said Luke, smiling, and
seeming himself once more, "it is a good job
that you don't live near me."

Don't say that, my boy," said the old man.

looking quite aghast. " I — I was thinking
how nice it would be if I could get nearer to
you."

You'd spoil me with flattery," said Luke.

'•'Nay, nay, my boy," said the old man,
seriously. '' I never told you aught but the
truth, and if I saw a fault I'd out with it
directly."

"You always were the best of fathers," cried
Luke, clasping the old man's hand.

*' And — and I thank God, my boy, for His
blessings on my old age," quavered the old
man, with the weak tears in his eyes — " You
were always the best of sons."

They sat band clasped in hand for a few
moments, and then the old man said softly —

God will bless you for your goodness to
that poor woman, my boy. I know it has
been a^hard fight, but you have worn. It is
heaping coals of fire on your enemy's head todo
good to him, and maybe afterwards Cyril
Mallow may repent. But, Luke, my boy," he
cried, cheerfully, " I'm a stupid old man, only
you must humour me."

"How, father?"

P 2

Let me see you, just for a minute, in your
wig and gown."

Nonsense, father ! "

But I should like it, my boy."

Luke rose to humour him, putting on wig
and gown, and making the old man rub his
hands with gratification as he gazed at the
clear, intelligent face, with its deeply-sets
searching eyes.

"I'll be bound to say you puzzle and
frighten some of them, my boy," said the old
man. " And that's a brief, is it ? ''

Yes, father," said Luke, smiling down on
the old man, so full of childlike joy.

Ah, yes," said the old man, putting on a
pair of broad-rimmed spectacles, and then
reading — " Jones v. Lancaster." " Hah ! yes,
nicely written ; better than this fifty gs.
What does that mean ? "

"Fifty guineas, father."

'' Indeed ! And which was it, Jones or
Lancaster, who stole the fifty guineas ? "

'neither, father. That is a common-pleas
case of some importance, and the fifty guineas
is my fee."

Your fee ? " cried the old man. " You
don't mean to tell me that you get ' fifty-two
pounds ten shillings, my boy, for your
fee ? "

Yes, father, I do now," said his son,
smiling.

Bless my soul ! Why, Luke, you ought
to grow rich."

Well, I suppose so, father ; but I don't
much care. I should like to grow famous,'
and make myself a name."

And you will, my boy — you will," cried
the old man, as Luke slipped off his legal
uniform, and replaced the wig and gown.

'' Time proves all things, father."

And may I look ? I won't tell. Is this
another brief 1 "

Yes, father ; I get plenty now."

But — but — you are not paid fifty guineas
a-piece for them, my boy ? "

Yes, father, I take nothing below that fee
now, and even then I get more than I can
undertake."

The old man threw himself back in his
chair, and, after a struggle, drew out of his

trousers pocket a reddish canvas bag, and
untied the string around the neck.

Why, what are you going to do, father ? '^
said Luke.

Tm going to pay my son the fee for the
brief in Cyril Mallow's case, and I'm as proud
as proud to have it to do."

No, no," cried Luke ; " that must not be."

"But I will, my boy, I will," said the old
man.

No, no, father, I could not take it. You
would hurt me if you pressed it."

But I've plenty of money, my boy."

So have I, father, aid I could not do my
duty in that defence if it was a matter of
payment. If I take that brief," he said,
solemnly, " my payment is Sage Mallow's
thanks and her children's prayers."

The old man sat thinking for a few moments.

You are right, my boy, you are right," he
said, replacing his bag. " And, of course, all I
have is yours. But you will take the brief,
Luke, my boy ? "

Yes, father, if I can I will."

Then you will," cried the old man, joyously*

'' Hah, let's look at that. It's a big one,
Luke ; " and he picked up, with his eyes
sparkling with paternal pride, the brief brought
in that morning by Mr. Swift. " Hah ! this
has been altered," said the old man. " It was
twenty-five guineas, and that's crossed out,
and they've written fifty. I'll bet twopence
they offered you twenty-five first, and you
wouldn't take it."

Quite right, father," said Luke, upon
whom his father's enjoyment came like so
much sunshine in a dull life.

Quite right, my boy, quite right. Let
'em know your value. You're a man of
business, Luke. Now, what's this, my
boy?"

I really don't know, father, only that it is
for the prosecution in an important criminal
case."

Criminal case, eh ? And you haven't
studied it, then ? "

"Not yet. I was going to finish Jones
versus Lancaster first."

And this is re Esdaile, eh ? What's that ?
Esdaile, Esdaile, and Co. Why, that's the

name of the wine-merchants' firm where Cyril
Mallow was partner."

F"to.^" roared Luke.

He snatched the brief from his father's
hand, tore it open, and as the leaves fluttered
in his trembling hand he sank back in a chair,
looking like one who had received some deadly
blow.

CHAPTEE y.

A HARD DUTY.

Old Michael Ross was at his son's side on
the instant.

Are you ill, my boy '? Tell me what it is !
You frighten me, Luke ! — you frighten me I "

I shall be better directly, father," panted
Luke, with a strange look in his face.

But you are ill. Let me send for brandy."

No, no ; I am better now ! It is nothing.
But tell me, father, I thought that man became
partner with a Mr. Walker ? "

Yes, my boy ; I believe it was a very old
firm, trading as Esdaile and Co. No other
names appeared."

Good heavens ! " muttered Luke, who kept
glancing at the brief and turning over its
leaves.

Why, Luke ! " exclaimed the old man
excitedly, as the state of the case flashed
upon him. " You are not already engaged in
this affair ? "

I am, father," he said, with a strange
pallor gathering in his face. " I have undertaken
the prosecution of Cyril Mallow on
behalf, it seems, of Mr. Walker's executors
and I shall have to try and get him convicted."

Father and son sat gazing blankly in each
other's eyes, thinking of the future ; and as
Luke pondered on the position into which he
had been thrown by fate, he saw that he
should be, as it were, the hand of Nemesis
standing ready to strike the heartless spendthrift
down — that he was to be his own
avenger of the wrongs that he had suffered
from his enemy, and that no greater triumph
could be his than that of pointing out, step,
b}^ step, to the jury, the wrong doings of this
man, who would be standing in the felon's
dock quailing before him, looking in his eyes
for mercy, but finding none.

He shuddered at the picture, for soon fresh
faces appeared there — that of Sage, standing

with supplicating hands and with her tearful,
dilated eyes, seeming to ask him for pity for
her children's sake. Then he saw the white-haired
rector gazing at him piteously, and the
suffering invalided mother who worshipped
her son. Both were there, asking him what
they had done that he should seek to convict
him they loved.

He looked up, and saw that his father was
watching him with troubled face.

"This — this is very terrible, my boy," he
said. " I ought to have been sooner. But —
but — must you take that side ? "

I have promised, father. I would give
anything to have been under the same promise
to you. But I cannot, I will not stand up
and accuse Cyril Mallow. Strive how I
would, I should fight my hardest to get a
verdict against him, and I could not afterwards
bear the thought. I will get off taking,
this brief. Stay here while I go out."

He took his hat, and was driven to his
solicitors, where he had an interview with
Mr. Swift, and proposed that that gentleman
should retire the brief from his hands.

Mr. Swift smiled, and shook his head.

'' No, Mr. Koss," he said ; '' I have given
you your price, and after a chat with my
partner, he agreed that I had done right.
The matter is settled, sir ! I could not hear
of such a thing."

Luke was in no mood to argue With him
then, but went back to his chambers, dined
with his father, and then sat up half the night
studying the brief, not with the idea of being
for the prosecution, but so as to know how
Cyril Mallow stood.

It was a long brief, and terrible in its array
of charges against Sage's husband. As he
read on, Luke found that the executors of
Cyril's partner, the late Mr. Walker, were
determined upon punishing him who had
wrought his ruin. The wine business' had
been a good and very lucrative one until
Mr. Walker had been tempted into taking a
partner, whose capital had not been needed,
the object really being to find a junior who
would relieve the senior from the greater part
of the anxiety and work.

Cyril then had been received into the

partnership, and a great deal of the management
had after a short time been left to him,
a position of which he took advantage to
gamble upon the Stock Exchange with the
large sums of money passing through their
hands, with just such success as might have
been expected, and the discovery that Cyril
had involved the firm in bankruptcy broke Mr.
Walker's hearty the old man dying within a
week of the schedule being filed.

Worse was behind : the executors charged
Cyril with having forged his partner's name to
bills, whereon he had raised money, signing
not merely the name of the firm, but his own
and his partner's name, upon the strength of
which money had been advanced by two bill
discounters, both of whom were eager to have
him punished.

In short, the more Luke Ross studied, the
more he found that the black roll of iniquity
was unfolding itself, so that at last he threw
down the brief, heartsick with disgust and
misery, feeling as' he did that if half, nay,
a tithe of that which was charged against
Cyril were true, no matter who conducted

prosecution or defence, the jury was certain
to convict him of downright forgery and
swindling, and seven or ten years' penal
servitude would be his sentence.

It needed no dull, cheerless morning for
Luke's spirits to be at the lowest ebb when
he met his father at breakfast, the old man
looking very weak, careworn, and troubled, as
they sat over the barely-tasted meal.

Luke hardly spoke, but sat there thinking
that he would make a fresh appeal to Mr.
Swift to relieve him of so terrible a charge,
and expecting each moment that his father
would again implore him to retire from the
prosecution and take up the defence. At last
the old man spoke.

*' I've been lying awake all night, thinking
about that, my boy," he said, " and I'm very,
very sorry."

Father," said Luke, " it seems almost more
than one can bear."

I said to myself that my boy was too
noble not to forgive one who had done wrong
to him in the past, and I said, too, that it
would be a fine thing for him to show people

how he was ready to go and fight on his old
rival's behalf."

And I will, father, or retire from the case
altogether," said Luke, eagerly.

No, my son, no," said the old man ; "I
have not long to live, and I should not like
that little time to be embittered by the thought
that I had urged my son to do a dishonourable
act."

^' Oh, no," cried Luke, " I will press them,
and they will let me retire."

But if they refused again, my boy, it
would be dishonourable to draw back after
you had promised to do your best. No, my
boy, there is the finger of God in it all, and
you must go on. Poor girl, poor girl ! it
will be terrible for her, but we cannot fight
against such things."

"But I could not plead my cause with her eyes
reproaching me," said Luke, half to himself.

But you must, my boy," cried the old
man. " I lay awake all last night, Luke, and
I prayed humbly for guidance to do what was
right, and it seemed to me that the good
counsel came."

Father ! " exclaimed Luke, gazing in the
old man's face.

It will be painful, my boy, but we must
not shrink from our duty because it is a
difficult one to perform. I am a weak old
fellow, and very ignorant, but I know that
here my son will be a minister of justice
against a bad and wicked man. For he is a
bad — a wicked man, my boy, who has stopped
at nothing to gratify his own evil ends."

But how can I proceed against him,
father ? "

Because it is your duty ; and, feeling what
you do against him, you will guard your
heart lest you should strike too hard ; and
it is better so. Luke, my boy, you will be
just ; while, if another man prosecutes him,
he will see in him only the forger and
the cheat, and fight his best to get him
condemned."

It was true, and Luke sat back thinking.

Yesterday, my boy, I prayed you to
undertake this man's defence ; I withdraw it
all now : take back every word, and I will go
and tell poor Sage Mallow why."

No, no, father," cried Luke ; " if I cannot
defend, neither will I prosecute."

You must, my boy — you have given your
word. If you drew back now I should feel
that it would go worse against this man."

'' But mine, father, should not be the hand
to strike him down," cried Luke.

We are not our own masters here, my
boy," said the old man, speaking in a low and
reverent tone. "My Luke has never shrunk
from his duty yet, and never will."

Luke sank back in silence, and for a longtime
no word was spoken. Then he suddenly
rose and rang the bell.

See if Mr. Serjeant Towle is in," he said
to the boy, and upon the report being received
that the serjeant was within, Luke descended
and had ten minutes' conversation with that
great legal luminary, who, after a little consideration,
said, as Luke rose to go —

Well, yes, Ross, I will, if it's only for the
sake of giving you a good thrashing. You
are going on too fast, and a little check will
do you good. If I take the brief I shall get
him off. Send his solicitors to me."

VOL. III. Q

Five minutes later Luke was with his
father.

Go and see Mrs. Mallow at once, father,"
he said, "and bid her tell her solicitors to
wait upon Mr. Serjeant Towle."

Yes, my boy — Mr. Serjeant Towle," said
the old man, obediently.

He will require an enormous fee, father,
Which you will pay."

Yes, my boy, of course. Is — is he a great
man ? "

One of the leading counsel at the bar ;
and if Cyril Mallow can be got off, Serjeant
Towle is the man for the task."

But, my boy -" began the old man.

Don't hesitate, father, but go," cried Luke ;
and the old man hurried off.

CHAPTEE VI.

THE CASE FOR THE PROSECUTION.

It was a strange stroke of fate that, in
spite of several attempts to evade the duty,
circumstances so arranged themselves that
Luke Ross found himself literally forced, for
his reputation's sake, to go on with his
obnoxious task, and at last the day of trial
came.

Luke had passed a sleepless night, and he
entered the court, feeling excited, and as if all
before him was a kind of dream.

For a few minutes he had not sufficient
self-possession even to look round the well of
the building ; and it was some time before
he ventured to scan the part that would be
occupied by the spectators. Here, however,
for the time being, his eyes remained riveted,

Q 2

as a choking sensation attacked him, for,
seated beside the sturdy, well-remembered
figure of the Churchwarden, was a careworn,
youngish woman, so sadly altered that Luke
hardly recognized her as the Sage whose
features were so firmly printed on his memory.

She evidently did not see him, but was
watching the jury-box, and listening to some
remarks made to her from time to time by
her uncle.

Luke turned over his brief, and tried to
think of what he could do to be perfectly just
and yet spare the husband of the suffering
woman before him, and at whom he gazed
furtively from time to time.

He saw her as through a mist, gazing wildly
at the judge, and then at the portly form and
florid face of Serjeant Towle, who was now
engaged in an eager conversation with his
junior ; and the sight of the famous legal
luminary for the moment cleared away the
misty dreaminess of the scene. Luke's pulses
began to throb, and he felt like one about to
enter the arena for a struggle. He had had
many legal battles before, from out of which,

through his quickness in seizing upon damaging
points, he had come with flying colours ; but
he had never before been opposed to so powerful
an adversary as the Serjeant, and, for the
moment, a strong desire to commence the
encounter came over him.

But this passed off, and the dreamy sensation
came back, as he sat gazing at Sage,
thinking of their old childish days together,
their walks in the wold woodlands, flower-gathering,
nutting, or staining their hands
with blackberries ; of the many times when
]ie climbed the orchard trees to throw down
the ripening pears to Sage, who spread her
pinafore to receive them. In these dreamy
thoughts the very sunshine and sleepy atmosphere
of the old place came back, and the
sensation of remembrance of the old and
happy days became a painful emotion.

It must be a dream, he felt. That could
not be Sage seated there by the sturdy, portly,
grey-haired man, her uncle. Even old Michael
Ross seemed to be terribly changed, making
it impossible that the little, thin, withered
man seated behind Churchwarden Portlock

could be the quick, brisk tradesman of the
past.

*' Was it all true ?" Luke kept asking himself,
*' or was it, after all, but a dream ? "

Cyril Mallow's was the first case to be taken
that morning, and the preliminaries were soon
settled ; but all the while the dreaminess of
the scene seemed to Luke to be on the increase.
He tried to bring his thoughts back from the
past, but it was impossible ; and when Mr.
Swift the solicitor who had instructed him
spoke, the words seemed to be a confused
murmur from far away.

Then* the clerk of arraigns called the
prisoner's name, and as Cyril Mallow was
placed at the bar, and Luke gazed at the face
that had grown coarse and common-looking in
the past twelve years, the dreaminess increased
still more.

Luke was conscious of rising to bow to the
court and say, " I am for the prosecution, my
lord"; and heard the deep, rolling, sonorous
voice of Mr. Serjeant Towle reply, " I am for
the defence, my lord " ; and then Luke's eyes
rested upon Sage, who for the first time

recognized him, and was now leaning forward,
looking at him with wild and starting eyes that
seemed to implore him to spare her husband,
for the sake of their childhood's days ; and
her look fascinated him so that he could not
tear his gaze away.

It must be a dream, or else he was ill, for
there was now a strange singing in his ears, as
well as the misty appearance before his eyes,
through which he could see nothing but Sage
Portlock, as his heart persisted in calling
her still.

Was he to go on ? " he asked himself, ^' to
go wading on through this terrible nightmare,
planting sting after sting in that tender breast,
or should he give it up at once ? "

He wanted to — he strove to speak, and say,
'' My lord, I give up this prosecution," but his
lips would not utter the words. For he was
in a nightmare-like dream, and no longer a
free agent.

And yet his nerves were so overstrung that
he was acutely conscious of the slightest sound
in the court, as he rose now, the observed of
all present.

He heard the soft, subdued rustle made by
people settling in their places for the long
trial ; the catching, hysterical sigh uttered by
the prisoner's wife ; and a quick, faint cough,
or clearing of the throat, as the prisoner leaned
against the dock, and sought to get rid of
an unpleasant, nervous contraction of the
throat. ''-

Luke stood like one turned to stone, his
eyes now fixed on vacancy, his brief grasped
in his hand, and his face deadly pale. The
moment had arrived for him to commence the
prosecution, but his thoughts were back at
Lawford, and, like a rapid panorama, there
passed before his eyes the old schoolhouses, and
the figure of the bright, clever young mistress
in the midst of her pupils, while he seemed to
hear their merry voices as they darted out
into the sunshine, dismissed for the day.

Then he was studying for the mastership,
and was back at the training college. That
was not the judge seated on his left, but the
vice-principal, and those were not spectators
and reporters ranged there, tier above tier, with
open books and ready pencils, but fellow-students

; and he was down before them, at
the great black board, helpless and ashamed,
for the judge — no, it was the vice-principal —
had called him down from his seat, and said —

In any right-angled triangle the square of
the sides subtending the right angle is equal
to the square of the sides containing the right
angle. Prove it."

Prove it ! And that forty-seventh problem
of the first book of Euclid that he knew so
well had gone, as it were, right out of his
memory, leaving but a blank.

There was a faint buzz and rustle amongst
the students as it seemed to him in this waking
nightmare, and the vice-principal said —

We are all ready, Mr. Ross."

Still not a word would come. Some of the
students would be, he knew, pitying him, not
knowing how soon their own turn might come,
while others he felt would be triumphant,
being jealous of his bygone success.

He knew that book so well, too ; and
somehow Sage Portlock had obtained a seat
amongst the students, and was waiting to hear
him demonstrate the problem, drawing it with

a piece of chalk on the black board, and showing
how the angle ABC was equal to the
angle D E F, and so on, and so on.

We are all ready, Mr. Ross," came from
the vice-principal again. No, it was from the
judge, and it was not the theatre at St.
Chrysostom's, but the court at the Old Bailey,
where he was to prosecute Cyril Mallow, his
old rival, the husband of the woman he had
loved, for forgery and fraud ; and his throat
was dry, his tongue clave to the roof of his
mouth, and his thoughts were wandering away.

And yet his senses were painfully acute to
all that passed. He knew that Serjeant Towle
had chuckled fatly, after fixing his great
double eyeglass to gaze at him. Then, as
distinctly as if the words were uttered in his
ear, he heard one of the briefless whisper —

"He has lost his nerve."

There was an increase in the buzzing noise,
and an usher called out loudly, " Silence."

Ross, Mr. Ross ! For heaven's sake goon,"
whispered Mr. Swift, excitedly ; and
Luke felt a twitching at his gown.

But he could not master himself. It was

still all like a nightmare, when he turned his
eyes slowly on the judge, but in a rapt, vacant
way, for the old gentleman said kindly —

I am afraid you are unwell, Mr. Ross."

Luke was conscious of bowing slightly, and
just then a hysterical sigh from the overwrought
breast of Sage struck upon his ear,
and he was awake once more.

The incident had been most painful, and to
a man the legal gentlemen had considered ita
complete breakdown of one of the most
promising of the young legal stars, those who
had been so far disappointed seeing in the
downfall of a rival a chance for themselves.

But the next minute all that had passed
was looked upon as a slight eccentricity on
the part of a rising man. Mr. Swift, wbo
had begun to grind his teeth with annoyance,
thrust both his hands into his great blue bag,
as if in search of papers, but so as to be able
to conceal the gratified rub he was giving
them, as he heard Luke Ross in a clear incisive
tone, and with a gravity of mien and bearing
beyond his years, state the case for the prosecution
in a speech that lasted quite a couple

of hours. Too long, some said, but it was
so masterly in its perspicuity, and dealt so
thoroughly with the whole case, that it was
finally declared to be the very perfection of
forensic eloquence.

How his lips gave utterance to the speech
Luke himself hardly knew, but with his father s
words upon his duty ringing in his ears, he
carried out that duty as if he had neither
feeling against the prisoner, nor desire to save
him from his well-merited fate. With the
strict impartiality of one holding the scales of
justice poised in a hand that never varied in
its firmness for an instant, he laid bare Cyril
Mallow's career as partner in the wine firm,
and showed forth as black an instance of
ingratitude, fraud, and swindling as one man
could have gathered into so short a space.

There was a murmur of applause as Luke
took his seat. Then his junior called the
first witness, and the trial dragged its slow
length alone; ; while Luke sat, feeling; that
Sage would never forgive him for the words
that he had said.

Witness after witness, examination and

cross-examination, till the prosecution gave way
to the defence, and Serjeant Towle shuffled his
gown over his shoulders, got his wig awry, and
fought the desperate cause with all his might.

But all in vain. The judge summed up
dead against the prisoner, alluding forcibly to
the kindly consideration of the prosecution ;
and after stigmatizing the career of Cyril
Mallow as one of the basest, blackest ingratitude,
and a new example of the degradation
to which gambling would lead an educated
man, he left the case in the jury's hands, these
gentlemen retiring for a few minutes, and then
returning with a verdict of guilty.

Sentence, fourteen years' penal servitude.
And, once more, as in a dream, Luke saw
Cyril Mallow's blotched face gazing at him
full of malice, and a look of deadly hatred in
his eyes, before he was hurried away.

He was then conscious of Mr. Swift saying
something to him full of praise, and of Serjeant
Towle leaning forward to shake hands, as he
whispered —

You beat me, Ross, thoroughly. We'll be
on the same side next time."

But the dreaminess was once more closing
in Luke Ross as with a mist, and in it he saw
a pale, agonized face gazing reproachfully in
his direction as its owner was being helped
out of the court.

*' God help me ! " muttered Luke. " I must
have been mad. She will think it was revenge,
when I would sooner have died than given
her pain."

CHAPTEE VII.

AFTER THE SENTENCE.

There was nothing farther to detain Luke
Eoss, but he remained in his seat for sometime,
studying the next case people said, but
only that he might dream on in peace, for in
the midst of the business of the next trial he
found repose. No one spoke to him, and he
seemed by degrees to be able to condense his
thoughts upon the past.

And there he sat, trying to examine himself
searchingly, probing his every thought as he
sought for condemnatory matter against
himself.

He felt as if he had been acting all day
under some strange influence, moved by a
power that was not his own, and that, as the

instrument in other hands, he had been
employed to punish Cyril Mallow.

They will all join in condemning me," he
thought, " and henceforth I shall go through
life branded as one who hounded down his
enemy almost to the death."

At length he raised his eyes, and they rested
upon the little, thin, wistful countenance of
his father, and there was a feeling of bitter
reproach for his neglect of one who had
travelled all the previous day so as to be
present at the trial.

He made a sign to him as he rose, and the
old man joined him in the robing-room, where
Mr. Dick eyed him askance as he relieved his
master of his wig and gown ; and then they
returned to the chambers, where Luke threw
himself into a chair, and gazed helplessly at
his father, till the old man laid a hand, almost
apologetically, upon his son's arm.

You are tired out, my boy. Come with
me, and let us go somewhere and dine."

After I have disgraced myself like this,
father ? " groaned Luke. ^' Are you not
ashamed of such a son ? "

Ashamed ? Disgraced ? My boy, what
do you mean ? I never felt so proud of you
before. It was grand ! "

Proud ! " cried Luke, passionately, '' when
I seem to have stooped to the lowest form
of cowardly retaliation. A rival who made
himself my enemy is grovelling in the mire,
and I, instead of going to him like an honourable,
magnanimous man, to raise him up and
let him begin a better life, have planted my
heel upon his face, and crushed him lower into
the slough."

It was your duty, my boy, and you did
that duty," cried the old man, quickly. '' I
will not hear you speak like that."

"And Sage — his wife," groaned Luke,
not hearing, apparently, his father's words.
Father, the memory of my old love for her
has clung to me ever. I have been true to
that memory, loving still the sweet, bright
girl L knew before that man came between us
like a black shadow and clouded the sunshine
of my life."

He stopped, and let his head rest upon
his hand.

VOL. III. R

My love for her has never failed, father,
but is as fresh and bright now as it was
upon the day when I came up here to town
ready for the long struggle I felt that I should
have before I could seek her for my wife.
That love, I tell you, is as fresh and warm
now as it was that day, but it has always
been the love of one suddenly cut off from me
the love of one I looked upon as dead.
For that evening, when I met them in the
Kilby lane. Sage Portlock died to me, and
the days I mourned were as for one who had
passed away''

My boy, my boy, I know. He did come
between you, and seemed to blight your life,
but he is punished now."

Punished ? No," said Luke, excitedly ; " it
is not the man I have punished, but his wife.
Father, that sorrowing, reproachful look she
directed at me this morning will cling to me
to my dying day. I cannot bear it. I feel as
if the memory would drive me mad."

He started up, and paced the room in an
agony of mind that alarmed old Michael, who
sought in vain to utter soothing words.

At last, as if recalled to himself by the feeling
that he was neglecting the trembling old
man before him, Luke made an effort to
master the thoughts that troubled him, and
they were about to go out together, when the
boy announced two visitors, and Luke shrank
back unnerved once more, on finding that
they were the Reverend Eli Mallow and his
old Churchwarden.

I did not know his father was in town,"
said Luke, in a low voice.

"Yes, my boy, he sat back, poor fellow.
He looks very old and weak," said Michael
Eoss, in a quiet patronizing way. " He is a
good deal broken, my boy. Speak kindly to
him, pray."

'' What do they want ? " said Luke. " Oh,
father, what have I done that fate should
serve me such an ugly turn ? "

Your duty, my boy, your duty," whispered
the old man ; and the next minute the
visitors were in the room, finding, as they
entered, that old Michael was holding his son's
arm in a tender, proud way that seemed to fix
the old Eector's eyes.

R 2

He was, indeed, old-looking and broken ;
sadly changed from the fine, handsome, grey-headed
man that Luke knew so well.

I met Mr. Mallow almost at your door,"
said Portlock, in his bluff, firm way. '' We
did not come together, but we both wanted to
call."

Luke pointed to chairs, but the old Eector
remained standing, gazing reproachfully at
Luke.

Yes, I wanted to see you," he said ; " I
wanted to see and speak to the man I taught
when he was a boy, and in whom I took a
great deal of pride. I was proud to see you
progress, Luke Eoss. I used to read and
show the reports to your father when I saw
them, for I said Luke Eoss is a credit to our
town."

And you said so to me often, Mr. Mallow,"
cried old Michael.

*' I did — I did," said the Eector ; " and today
in court I asked myself what I had ever
done to this man that he should strike me
such a blow."

Be just, for heaven's sake, Mr. Mallow,"

cried Luke. " I did not seek the task I have
fulfilled to-day."

And I said to myself, as I saw my only
son dragged away by his gaolers, ' I will go
and curse this man — this cold-blooded wretch
who could thus triumph over us.' I said I
would show him what he has done — bruised
my heart, driven a suffering woman nearly
mad, and made two little innocent children
worse than orphans."

Mr. Mallow, is this justice ? " groaned
Luke.

No," said the old man, softly. " I said it
in mine haste, and as I hurried here mine
anger passed away ; the scales dropped from
mine eyes, and I knew that it was no work of
thine. Truly, as Eli's sons of old brought
heaviness to their father's heart, so have my
poor sons to mine ; and, Michael Ross," he
cried, holding out his trembling hands, '' I
was so proud of that boy — so proud. He was
his mother's idol, and, bad as he would be at
times, he was always good to her. Can you
wonder that she loved him ? Oh, God help
me ! my boy — my boy ! "

It has been an agony to me ever since the
brief was forced upon me, Mr. Mallow* said
Luke, taking the old man s hand. " Believe
me, I could not help this duty I had to do."

God bless you, Luke Ross ! " said the old
man, feebly. " Like Balaam of old, I came to
curse, and I stop to bless. If I have anything
to forgive, I forgive you, as I hope to be
forgiven. You have been a good son. Michael
Ross, you have never known what it is to feel
as I do now. But I must go back ; I must go
back to her at home. She waits to know the
worst, and this last blow will kill her, gentlemen
— my poor, suffering angel of a wife — it
will be her death."

Will you not come and see Sage first ? "
said Portlock, with rough sympathy.

^' No, no, I think not. The sight of my sad
face would do her harm. I'll get home.
Keep her with you, Portlock. God bless
her ! — a true, sweet wife. We came like a
blight to her, Portlock. Luke Ross, I ought
not to have allowed it, but I thought it was
for the best — that it would reform my boy.
My life has been all mistakes, and I long now

to lie down and sleep. Keep her with you,
Portlock, and teach her and her little ones to
forget us all."

He tottered to the door to go, but Luke
stepped forward.

He is not fit to go alone," he cried. " Mr.
Portlock, what is to be done ? "

*' I must take him home," he replied, sadly.
'^ I'd better take them all home, but I have a
message for you."

For me ? " cried Luke. " Not from Mrs.
Cyril ? "

*' Yes, from Sage. She wants to see you."

I could not bear it," cried Luke. " Heavens,
man ! have I not been reproached enough ? "

*' It is not to reproach you, I think, Luke
Eoss," said Portlock, softly. " She bade me
say to thee, ' Come to me, if you have any
sympathy for my piteous case.' "

CHAPTER VIII.

A Forlorn HOPE.

'^ Come to me if you have any sympathy for
my piteous case ! "

Sympathy ! In his bitter state of self-reproach,
he would have done anything to
serve her. He felt that he could forgive Cyril
Mallow, aid him in any way, even to compromising
himself by helping him to escape. But
he shrank from meeting Sage : he felt that he
could not meet her reproachful eyes.

You will come and see her ? " said the
Churchwarden. " Ah, my lad, if we could
have looked into the future ! "

His voice shook a little as he spoke, but he
seemed to nerve himself, and said again —

You will come and see her ? "

If it will be any good. Yes," said Luke,
slowly ; and they proceeded together to the
hotel, where Sage was staying with her
uncle, in one of the streets leading out of the
Strand.

The old Eector was so broken of spirit that
he allowed Portlock to lead him like a child,
and, satisfied with the assurance that tomorrow
he should return home, he sat down in the
room set apart, with old Michael Eoss, while,
in obedience to a sign from Portlock, Luke
followed him to a room a few doors away.

The place was almost in shadow, for the gas
had not been lit, and as Luke entered, with
his heart beating fast, a dark figure rose from
an easy-chair by the fire, and tottered towards
the old farmer, evidently not seeing Luke, who
stayed back just within the door.

He would not come," she cried. " It was
cruel of him. I thought he had a nobler heart,
and in all these years would have forgiven meat
last."

Mr. Ross is here. Sage," said Portlock,
rather sternly. '* Shall I leave you to speak
to him alone ? "

"No, no," she cried in a hoarse whisper,
instead of her former high-pitched querulous
tone. "I cannot — I dare not speak to him
alone."

If forgiveness is needed for the past, Mrs.
Mallow," said Luke, in a grave, calm voice, for
he had now mastered his emotion, " you have
mine freely given, and with it my true sympathy
for your position."

She burst into a passionate fit of weeping,
which lasted some minutes, during which she
stood hiding her face on her uncle's breast ;
then, recovering herself, she hastily wiped
away her tears, and drawing herself up, stood
holding out her hand for Luke to take.

He hesitated for a moment, and then, stepping
forward, took it and raised it to his lips,
just touching it with grave respect, and then
letting it fall.

I wished to say to you, Mr. Eoss, let the
past be as it were dead, all save our boy and
girlhood's days."

It shall be as you wish," he said, softly.

You do not bear malice against me ? "

None whatever ; but is not this better left,

Mrs. Mallow ? Why should we refer so to the
past ? "

Because," she said, '' I am so alone now,
so wanting in help. You have become a great
and famous man, whose word is listened to
with respect and awe."

This is folly," he said.

Folly ? Did I not see judge, jury, counsellors
hanging upon your lips ? did not your
words condemn my poor husband this dreadful
day?"

'' I am afraid, Mrs. Mallow," he said, sadly,
'' that it needed no advocate's words to
condemn your unhappy husband. I would
gladly have avoided the task that was, to mea
terrible one ; but my word was passed, as a
professional man, before I knew whom I had
to prosecute. Speaking now, solely from my
knowledge of such matters, I am obliged to tell
you that nothing could have saved him."

Hush ! Pray do not speak to me like
that," she cried. "He is my husband. I
cannot — I will not think that he could do so
great a wrong."

"Far be it from me," said Luke, gently, " to

try and persuade yon to think ill of. him. I
should think ill of you, Sage' he added, very
softly, ^^ if you fell away from your husband in
his sore distress."

Heaven bless you for those words, Luke
Eoss ! " she cried, as she caught one of his
hands and kissed it. " Grot will reward you
for what you have done in coming to me now,
wretched woman that I am, a miserable convict's
wife ; but you will help me, will you
not ? '^

In any way," he said, earnestly.

She uttered a low sigh of relief, and stood
with one hand pressed upon her side, the
other upon her brow, as if thinking ; while
Portlock sat down by the fire, and, resting his
elbows upon his knees, gazed thoughtfully at
the warm glow, but intent the while upon
what was going on.

My uncle is very good to me," said Sage,
apt length, " and is ready to find me what
money is required for the object I have in
hand ; but I can only obtain paid service,
whereas I want the help of one who will work
for me as a friend."

She looked at him to see the effect of her
words.

Luke bowed his head sadly.

I want one who, for the sake of the past,"
she continued, speaking excitedly, '' and on
account of his generous forgiveness of my
cruelty and want of faith, will strain every
nerve in my behalf."

She paused again, unable to continue, though
fighting vainly to find words.

I think I understand you," he replied.
"You want me, on the strength of the legal
knowledge you credit me with, to make some
new effort on your husband's behalf ? "

" It is like madness to ask it," she said,
"and I tremble as I say the words to you
whom he so injured ; but, Luke, have pity on
me. He is my husband," she cried, piteously,
as she wrung her hands, and then, before he
could stay her, flung herself upon the carpet,
and clung to his knees. " He is the father of
my innocent children ; for God's sake try and
save him from this cruel fate."

He remained silent, gazing down at the
prostrate figure, as, after an effort or two on

his part to raise her, she refused to quit her
grovelling attitude, save only to shrink lower,
and lay her cheek against his feet.

'' Mrs. Mallow ! " he said, at last.
" No, no ! " she cried, passionately. " Call
me Sage again. You have forgiven the
past."

Sage Mallow ! " he said, in a low measured
voice.

You are going to retract your words," she
cried, frantically, as she started up. "You
are going to draw back."

I have promised you," he said, quietly,
*' and my hands, my thoughts, all I possess,
are at your service."

And you will save him ? " she cried,
joyously.

He remained silent.

You will work for him — you will forgive
him, and bring him back to me ? " she cried,
piteously. " Luke — Luke Ross — you will save
him from this fate ? "

I did not seek this interview," he said,
sadly. "Mrs. Mallow, I would have spared
you this."

"What do you mean?" she cried. "Will
you not try ? "

It would be an act of cruelty," replied
Luke, "to attempt to buoy you up with
promises that must crumble to the earth."

"You will not try," she cried, passionately.

I will try. I will try every plan I can
think of to obtain your husband's release, Mrs.
Mallow," said Luke, gravely.

Or get him a new trial ? "

Such a thing is impossible. The most we
dare hope for would be some slight shortening
of his sentence ; but candour compels me to
say that nothing I can do will be of the
slightest avail after such a trial as Cyril
Mallow has had."

Just then the old Churchwarden had
thoughtfully raised the poker and broken a
lump of coal, with the result that the confined
gas burst into a bright light, filling the room
with its cheerful glow, and Luke saw that
Sage was looking at him with flashing eyes,
and a couple of scarlet patches were burning
in her cheeks.

She raised one hand slowly, and pointed to

the door, speaking in a deep husky voice, full
of suppressed passion.

And I believed in you," she said, wildly,
I thought you would be my friend. I said
to myself, Luke Eoss is true and noble, and
good, and he loved me very dearly, when I
was too weak and foolish to realize the value
of this love. I said I would beg of you to
come to me and help me in my sore distress,
that I would humble myself to you, and that
in the nobleness of your heart you would
forgive the past."

As I have forgiven it, heaven knows," he
said, gravely.

ind then," she cried, excitedly, '' you
come with your lips full of promises, your
heart full of gall, ready to cheer me with
words of hope, but only to fall away and leave
me in despair."

Do not misjudge me," he said, appealingly.

Misjudge you ! " she cried, with bitter contempt.
" How could I misjudge such a man
as you ? I see now how false you can be. I
see how you laid calmly in wait all these years
that you might have revenge. You hurled

my poor husband to the earth that afternoon
in the lane ; now you have crushed him down
beneath your heel"

Can you not be just ? " he said.

Just ? " she cried, " to you ? I thought to
teach my children to bless and reverence your
name as that of the man who had saved their
father. I taught them to pray for you with
their innocent little lips, and I sent to you and
humbled myself to ask you to defend my
husband in his sore need, but you refused —
refused forsooth, because you were gloating
over the opportunity you would have for
revenge. The trial came, he was condemned
through your words, but I still believed you
honest, and trusted in you for help. I sent to
you once again to pray you to try and restore
my husband to me, but you coldly refuse,
while your lips are yet hot with promises and
lies."

"Sage," he cried, passionately, "you tear
my heart."

I would tear it," she cried, fiercely, in her
excitement, " coward that you are — cruel
coward, full of deceit and revenge. Go : leave

VOL. III. S

me, let me never see you again, for I could
not look upon you without loathing, and I
shudder now to think that I have ever touched
your hands."

Sage, my girl, Sage ! " said the Churchwarden,
as he rose and took her hands, " this
is madness, and tomorrow you will be sorry
for what you have said."

Uncle," she cried wildly, as she clung to
him, " I cannot bear his presence here. Send
him from me, or I shall die."

She hid her face upon her uncle's shoulder,
and he held out his right hand, and grasped
that of Luke.

*' God bless you, my boy ! " he said, with
trembling voice. " She is beside herself with
grief, and knows not what she says."

Luke returned the warm pressure of the
old farmer's hand, and would have gone, but
Portlock held it still.

*' I thank you for coming, Luke Koss," he
said ; " and I know you to be just and true.
Would to heaven I had never made that great
mistake ! "

He said no more, but loosed their visitor's

hand, Luke standing gazing sadly at the
sobbing woman for a few moments, and then
leaving the room to seek old Michael, with
whom he was soon on his way back to
chambers, faint and sick at heart.

Hardly had the sound of his footsteps
passed from the stairs than, with a wild cry.
Sage threw herself upon her knees, sobbing
wildly.

'' Heaven forgive me ! " she cried. " What
have I said ? Uncle, uncle, a lying spirit has
entered into my heart, making me revile him
as T have — Luke — so generous, and good, and
true."

CHAPTER IX.

BACK HOME.

In obedience to his promise, Luke Ross set
earnestly to work to try and obtain an
alleviation of the stern sentence passed upon
Cyril Mallow.

It was an exceedingly awkward task to
come from the prosecuting counsel, but Luke
did not shrink, striving with all his might,
offending several people high in position by
his perseverance, and doing himself no little
injury ; but he strove on, with the inevitable
result that his application came back from the
Home Office with the information that the
Right Honourable the Secretary of State saw
nothing in the sentence to make him interfere
with the just course of the law, adding, moreover,
this opinion that it was a very proper

punishment for one whose education and antecedents
should have guided him to a better
course.

These documents were sent by Luke, without
word of comment, to Kilby Farm, where he
knew from his father that Sage was residing
with her children ; and by return of post came
a very brief letter from the widowed wife,
thanking him for what he had done, and
ending with the hope that he would forgive
the words uttered during an agony of soul
that without some utterance would have
driven the speaker mad.

She did not mean it," said Luke, sadly, ashe
carefully folded and put away the letter.
She knows me better in her heart."

Then time went on, till a year had passed.
Luke had not been near Lawford, for the place,
in spite of its being the home of his birth, was
too full of sad memories to induce him to
go down. Besides, there was the fact that
Sage Mallow had, in defiance of looks askance
from those who had known her in her earlier
days, permanently taken up her residence
there.

I'd like to hear auy one say a slighting
word to thee, my bairn," said Portlock, fiercely.
It's no fault of thine that thy husband got
into trouble. . I'd live here, if it was only out
of defiance to the kind-hearted Christians, as
they call themselves, who slight thee."

So Sage remained a fixture at the farm,
settling down quite into her former life, but
no longer with the light elasticity of step, and
the rooms no more echoed with the ring of
her musical voice. Time had given her an
older and a sadder look, but her features had
grown refined, and there was a ladylike mien
in every movement that made her aunt gaze
upon her with a kind of awe.

Let her come back to the old nest again,
mother," said Portlock. " There's room enough
for the lass, and as for the little ones — My
word, mother, it's almost like being grandfather
and granny."

Many a heartache had Sage had about her
dependent position, and the heavy losses that
had occurred to her uncle in the money she
and her husband had had ; but Portlock, in
his bluff way, made light of it.

I dare say I can make some more, my
bairn, and it will do for these two young
tyrants. Hang me, what a slave they do
make of me, to be sure ! "

It was the faint wintry sunshine of Sage
Mallow's life to see the newly-born love of
the old people for her children, whom they
idolized, and great was the jealousy of Rue
whenever she came across to Kilby. But it
was no wonder, for they were as attractive in
appearance as they were pretty in their ways.
One was always out in the gig with the
Churchwarden, while the other was seriously
devoting herself to domestic duties and hindering
Mrs. Portlock, who bore the infliction
with huge delight.

I never saw such bairns," cried the old
lady.

Nor anybody else," said Portlock, proudly.
Let's see, mother, there's a year gone by out
of the fourteen. Bless my soul, I wish it had
been twenty-one instead."

"For shame, Joseph !" cried Mrs. Portlock.
*' How can you ! "

'^ Well, all I can say is that it's a blessing

he was shut up where he could do no further
mischief."

*' But it's so dreadful for the bairns."

Tchah ! not it. They can't help it, bless
'em. See how they've improved since they
have been down here."

Well, yes, they have," said Mrs. Portlock,
and Sage's a deal better."

Better, poor lassie ! I should think she is.
Of course, she frets after him a bit now and
then, and feels the disgrace a good deal, but,
bless my soul, mother, she's like a new woman
compared to what she was. For my part, I
hope they'll never let him out again."

For shame, Joseph ! " said Mrs. Portlock.
Mr. Mallow was over here this morning."

Was he ? Ah, I'll be bound to say
he wanted to take the bairns over to the
rectory."

Yes, and he took them."

Hah ! " said the farmer, sharply. " I'm
very sorry for the poor old lady, but I am
glad that she is so ill that she can't bear to
have them much."

What a shame, Joseph ! " cried Mrs. Port-lock,

indignantly. " How can you say such a
cruel things ! Glad she is so ill ! "

I didn't mean I was glad she was ill,"
said the Churchwarden, chuckling. " I meant
I was glad she was too ill to have the bairns."

But it sounds so dreadful."

Let it. What do I care ! I don't want
for us to be always squabbling over those
children. .They're my Sage's bairns, and consequently
they're ours."

•'' But they're Cyril Mai "

Tchah ! Don't mention his name," cried
the Churchwarden.

Fie, Joseph ! you do make me jump so
when you talk like that."

Shouldn't mention that fellow's name then.
I told you not."

Well, then, they are Mr. and Mrs. Mallow's
children just as much as ours, Joseph," said
the old lady.

No they ain't ; they're mine, and there's
an end of it. I say, though, old Michael Eoss
is ill."

Ah ! poor man. I'm sorry ; but he's very
old, Joseph."

Not he. Young man yet," said the Churchwarden,
who was getting touchy on the score
of aoje. " I don't call a man old this side of a
hundred. Look at the old chaps in the Bible,
as Sammy Warmoth used to say."

^' Yes, Joseph, but they were great and goodmen."


Oh, were they *? " said the Church warden.
I don't know so much about that. Some of
'em were ; but others did things that the
Lawford people wouldn't stand if I were to
try 'em on."

But what is the matter with Michael
Eoss ? "

Break up. I went in to see him, and the
old man got me to write a letter to Luke,
asking him to come down and see him."

And did you, Joseph '? "

Did I ? Why, of course I did. Do you
suppose I've got iron bowels, woman, and no
compassion in me at all ? "

I wish you wouldn't talk such nonsense,
Joseph," said Mrs. Portlock, sharply. "And
do you think Luke Koss will come down ? "

Of course he will."

He hasn't been down for a very long time
now. I suppose he has grown to be such a
great man that he is ashamed of poor old
Langford."

'' Who's talking nonsense dow 1 " cried the
Churchwarden. " Nice temptation there is
for him to come down here, isn't there ? Bless
the lad, I wonder he even cares to set foot in
the place again."

It would be unpleasant for him, I suppose,
after all that has taken place. But you think
he will come ? "

Sure to. I told him it was urgent, and
that I'd drive over to Morbro and meet the
train, so as to save him time. He's a goodman,
is Luke Eoss, as old Michael said with
tears in his eyes to-day, and he wants to see
him badly."

Poor old man ! "

'' Tchah ! don't call him old," cried the
Churchwarden. Then calming down after a
whiff or two of his pipe, " Luke Eoss will be
down here tomorrow afternoon as sure as a
gun. Eh ? Why, Sage, my gal, I didn't see
you there"

Did — did I hear you aright, uncle ? " she
said, faintly. " Is old Mr. Ross ill ? "

Very ill, my dear," said the Churchwarden,
sternly, "and Luke Ross is coming down to
see him, I should say."

CHAPTER X.

DOWN AT LAWFORD.

PoRTLOCK was right in saying that Luke
would be clown the next clay, for, reproaching
himself for his neglect of his father, he hastened
down to find him somewhat recovered
from the sudden attack that had prostrated
him, and the old man's face lit up as his son
entered the room.

Yes, my boy, better ; yes, I'm better," he
said, feebly ; " but it can't be for long, Luke ;
it can't be for long. I'm very, very glad you
have come."

But you are better," said Luke ; " and
good spirits have so much to do with recovery."

Well, yes, my boy, yes," said the old man ;
*' and the sight of you again seems to have

given me strength. You won't go back again
yet, Luke ? "

I was going back tomorrow, father," he
said ; " but," he added, on seeing the look of
disappointment in the old man's face, " I will
stay a little longer."

Do, my boy, do," cried the old man ; *' and
when I go off to sleep, as I shall soon — I sleep
a great deal now, my boy — go and look round,
and say a word to our neighbours. I often
talk to them about you, Luke, and tell them
that though you have grown to be a great
man you are not a bit proud, and I should like
them to see that you are not."

'' That is soon done," said Luke, laughing.
'' Why should I be proud ? "

Oh, you might be, my boy, but you are
not. Go and have a chat with Tomlinson and
Fullerton. And, Luke, if you wouldn't mind,
when you are that way, I'd go in and see
Humphrey Bone."

Is he still master ? " said Luke, thoughtfully,
as the old days came vividly back.

No, my boy, not for these two years ; and
he's quite laid by. An old man before his

time, Luke, and it is the drink that has done
it. I don't judge him hardly though, for we
never know what another's weakness has been,
and it is not for us to sit in judgment upon
our brother's faults. Will you go and see him,
Luke ? "

I will, father," said the younger man, smiling
and feeling refreshed, after his arduous
daily toil and study of man's greed, rapacity,
and sin, with the simple, innocent kindness of
his father's heart.

That does me good, my boy, indeed it
does," said the old man, pathetically; and
he held his son's hand against his true old
breast. " I'm very sorry for a great deal
that I have clone, my boy, and 1 like to see
you growing up free from many of the weaknesses
and hard ways that have been mine.
What I am obliged to leave undone, Luke, I
want you to do, for my time is very short, and
I often lie here and think that I should like to
go before the Master feeling that I had tried todo
my best, and taught you, my boy, according
to such knowledge of good as in me lay."

My dear old father ! " cried Luke, tenderly ;

and the hard, worldly crust that was gathering
upon him seemed to melt away as he
leaned over and carefully smoothed and turned
the old man's pillow with all the gentleness
of a woman's hand. " Why, what is it ? "
he said, as the old man uttered quite a sob,
and the weak tears gathered in his eyes.

Nothing, my boy, it is nothing," he said.
It only made me think of thirty years ago,
when I was ill, and your mother used to turn
my pillow like that — just like that, my boy —
and you are so much like her, Luke ; and as I
lie here, a worn-out, trembling old man, and
you come down — you, my boy, who have
grown so great, and who, they tell me, will
some day be Queen's Counsel, and perhaps
Attorney-general, and then a Judge, such a
great man as you've become, Luke — I lie here
thinking that you can come down and tend tome
like this, it makes me thank God that I
have such a son."

Why, what have I done more than any
other son would do ? And as to becoming
great, what nonsense ! "

*' But it isn't nonsense, Luke, my boy,"

quavered the old man. '^ I've heard all about
it ; and, Luke, when you are Queen's Counsel,
my boy, give her good advice, for kings and
queens have much to answer for, and I should
like her — God bless her ! — to have a very
long and happy reign."

Indeed I will, father," said Luke, laughing,
if ever it falls to my lot to be her adviser.
But there, you are getting too much excited.
Suppose you try and have a nap ? "

I will, my boy, I will, and you'll go round
town a bit, and walk up and see the parson.
He'll be strange and glad to see thee, and
if you see Mrs. Cyril, say a kind word to the
poor soul ; she's been very good to me, my
boy, and comes and sits and talks to me a deal.
Don't think about the past, my boy, but about
the future. Let's try and do all the kindness
we can, Luke, while we are here. Life is
very short, my boy — a very, very little span."

Father," said Luke, bending over the old
man's pillow, " for your sake and your kindly
words, I'll do the best I can."

Thank you, my boy, God bless you, I
Imo you will," said the old man. " For life

VOL. III. T

is SO short, Luke, my son. Good-bye, my
boy. Do all the good you can. I'm going to
sleep now. Grot bless you, good-bye."

He closed his eyes, and drew a long breath,
dropping off at once into a calm and restful
si amber, Luke staying by his side for a while.

Then taking; out a blue official-looking; document
from his pocket, he looked at it for a few
moments before replacing it in his breast.

Poor old man ! " he said, softly. '^ I wish
I had told him what I was about to do, it
Avould have pleased him to know."

He got up and went softly down-stairs, to
pause for a few minutes in the homely, comfortably
furnished room with its well-polished
furniture, every knob and handle seeming like
familiar friends. There was his father's seat,
his mother's, and the little Windsor arm-chair
that had been his own, religiously preserved,
and kept as bright as beeswax and sturdy
country hands could make it.

He has gone off to sleep," Luke said to
the matronly housekeeper, who never ventured
to speak to him without a curtsey.

'' No, Mr. Luke, sir — I mean yes, Mr. Luke,

sir, 111 keep going up and peeping at him, and
take him his beef tea when he wakens. Your
coming, sir, begging your pardon for taking
the liberty of saying so, sir, have done him a
power of good."

Luke smiled and nodded — " so condescending
and kind-like," the woman afterwards told a
neighbour — and walked out across the marketplace,
stopping to shake hands here and therewith
the tradesmen who came to their doors,
and at last making his way down towards the
schools.

They seem to esteem me a very great
gun," he said, half in jest, half bitterly, as he
walked slowly on, passing men whom he remembered
as boys, and responding constantly
to the salutations he received.

He had not intended to go that way, thinking
he would send his missive over to Kilby
by post, and asking himself why he had not
mentioned the matter to Portlock as he drove
him in that day ; but somehow his footsteps
turned in the direction of the farm, and he had
nearly reached the turning indelibly marked
in his memory as the one along which he had

T 2

come that cruel eve, when suddenly a merry
shout from a childish voice fell upon his ear.

He did not know why it should, but it
seemed to thrill him as he went on, to come
in sight of two bright, golden-haired little
girls, each with her pinky fingers full of flowers,
and her chubby face flushed with exercise.

They stopped and gazed at him for a
moment, and then ran back.

I'm not one whom young folks take to,"
he said, bitterly ; and then his heart seemed to
stand still, for he saw them run up to a pale,
graceful-looking woman, who bent down, and
evidently said something to the children, both
of whom hesitated for a moment, and then
came running back.

Sage," he said to himself, as he involuntarily
stopped short. " How changed ! "

Then, as he saw the children approach, an
involuntary feeling of repugnance came over
him, and his heart seemed to shrink from the
encounter.

His children. So pretty, but with a something
in their innocent faces that reminded
him terribly of their father.

He would have turned back, but he Alas
spell-bound, and the next moment the little
things were at his side, the elder to take his
hand and kiss it, saying in her silvery, childish
voice —

I can't reach to kiss you more, for being
so good to poor mamma."

And I'll dive you my sowers, Matter Luke,"
said the other little thing. " Sageyy pick all
herself."

An agony of shame, of love, of regret and
pleasure commingled seemed to sweep across
Luke Ross, as, with convulsed face, he went
down on one knee in the road and caught the
little ones to his breast.

My darlings ! " he cried, hoarsely, as he
kissed them passionately.

Then, with his eyes blinded by the hot tears
of agony, he caught the blue envelope from his
breast and pressed it into the youngest little
one's hands.

Take it to mamma, my child, and say
Luke Ross prays that it may make her happy."
Then, unable to command his feelings, he
turned and walked away.

CHAPTER XT,

LUKE VISITS AN OLD FRIEND.

Life is very short, my boy, a very little
span," seemed to keep repeating itself to
Luke Ross's ears, as he walked briskly across
the fields trying to regain his composure,
hardly realizing that he was going in the
direction of the rectory, till he had nearly
reached the gates, when he paused, not daring
to enter.

It would be almost an insult after the part
I was forced to play," he said to himself, and
he set off towards the town.

But somehow his father's words seemed to
keep repeating themselves, and he altered his
mind, turned back, and went in.

I go in all kindliness," he said to himself ;

and perhaps the poor old man would like to
know what I have done."

The next minute he stopped short, hardly
recognizing in the bent, pallid figure, with
snowy hair, the fine, portly Rector of a dozen
years ago.

I beg your pardon ; my sight is not so
good as it was," said the old man apologetically,
as he shaded his eyes with a hand holding a
trowel.

It is Luke Eoss, Mr. Mallow. I was down
here for the first time for some years, and I
thought I would call."

The old man neither moved nor spoke for a
few moments, but stood as if turned to stone.

Then recovering himself, but still terribly
agitated by the recollections that the meeting
brought up, he held out his hand.

I am glad you came, Luke, very glad," he
said. '' I^ — T call you Luke," he continued,
smiling, " it seems so familiar. Your visit,
my boy, honours me, and I am very, very
glad you came."

There was a thoroughly genial warmth in
the old man's greeting as he passed his arm

through that of his visitor, and led him into
one of the glass-houses that it was his joy to
tend.

I hear a good deal about you, Mr. Ross,
and go and chat with your father about you.
But — but, my boy, you have seen him, have
you not ? "

I was with him till he went to sleep, not
an hour ago''

"■ That is well, that is well," said the Eector,
who had fallen into the old life habit of repeating
himself. " Stay with him awhile if you
can, Luke. Life is very uncertain at his age,
and I have my fears about him — grave fears
indeed."

He is a great age, Mr. Mallow," said Luke,
but he quite cheered up when I came."

He would," said the Rector, with his voice
trembling, '' he would, Luke Ross, and — and
I cannot help feeling how hard is my own lot
compared to his. Luke Ross," he said, after
an effort to recover his calmness, "I have no
son to be a blessing to me in my old age ;
three of my children have quite passed away."

It seemed no time for words, and Luke felt

that the greatest kindness on his part would
be to hold his peace.

The old Rector appeared to recover from his
emotion soon after, as Luke asked after Mrs.
Mallow.

"It would be foolish," said the Rector, "if
I said not well. Poor thing ; she is a sad invalid,
but she bears it with exemplary patience,
Luke Ross. See," he continued, pointing to a
waxy-looking, sweet-scented flower, " this is a
plant I am trying to cultivate for her. She is
so fond of flowers. It is hard work to get it
to grow though. It requires heat, and I find
it difficult to keep it at the right temperature."

Luke kept hoping that the old man would
make some fresh allusion to his son, and give
an opportunity for introducing something the
visitor wished to say.

I grow a great many grapes now," continued
the Rector, " and I have so arranged
my houses that I have grapes from June right
up to March."

Indeed, sir," said Luke, as he noted more
and more how the old man had changed. He
had become garrulous, and prattled on with

rather a vacant smile upon his lip, as he led
his visitor from place to place, pointing out
the various objects in which he took pride.

For a time Luke felt repelled by the old
man's weakness, but as he found that one idea
ran through all this conversation, a sweet,
tender devotion for the suffering wife, respect
took the place of the approach to contempt.

You will not mind, Luke Eoss," he said,
if I stop to cut a bunch of grapes for my
poor wife, will you ? "

Indeed, no, sir," said Luke, narrowly
watching him.

"She does not know that I have one in
such a state of perfection," he said, laughing,
for I've kept it a secret. Poor soul ! she is
so fond of grapes ; and, do you know, Luke
Eoss, I'm quite convinced that there is a great
deal of nutriment and support in this fruit,
for sometimes when my poor darling carnot
touch food of an ordinary kind she will go on
enjoying grapes, and they seem to support
and keep her alive."

"It is very probable that it is as you say,
sir."

'eyes, I think it is," said the old Rector,
slowly drawing forward a pair of steps, and
planting them just beneath where a large
bunch of grapes hung, beautifully covered with
violet bloom. " There," he said, taking a pair
of pocket scissors from his vest, and opening
them. " Look at that, Luke Less, eh ! Isn't
that fine ? "

'ras fine as we see in Co vent-garden, sir."

That they are, that they are, and I grow
them entirely myself, Luke Ross. Nobody
touches them but me. I dress and prune my
vines myself, and thin the bunches. No other
hand touches them but mine. Now for a
basket."

He took a pretty little wicker basket from a
nail whereon it hung, and then, with a pleasant
smile upon his face, he snipped ofi" half-a-dozen
leaves, which he carefully arranged in the
bottom of the basket, so as to form a bed for
the bunch of grapes.

So much depends upon the appearance of
anything for an invalid, Luke Ross," he said,
smiling with pleasure as he went on. " I have
to make things look very attractive sometimes

if I want her to eat. Now, then, I think that
we shall do."

Shall I cut the bunch for you, Mr. Mallow
? " said Luke, as he saw, with a feeling of
apprehension, that the old man was about to
mount the frail steps.

Cut — cut the bunch "? " said the Rector,
looking at him aghast. " Oh, dear no ; I
CO aid not let any one touch them but myself.
No — no disrespect, my young friend," he said,
apologetically, " but she is very weak, and I
have to tempt her to eat. My dear boy — I
mean my dear Mr. Ross — if she thought that
any hand had touched them but mine she
would not eat them ; and it is by these little
things that I have been able to keep her alive
so long."

He sat down on the top of the steps as he
spoke, and smiled blandly from his throne.

You will not feel hurt, Mr. Ross ? " he
said, gently. " I appreciate your kindness.
You are afraid that I shall fall, but I am very
cautious. See how much time I take."

He smiled pleasantly as he went on with
his task, rising carefully, taking tightly hold

of the stout wires that supported the vine, and
steadying himself on the top of the steps till
he felt quite safe, when, letting go his hold,
he placed the basket tenderly beneath the
perfect bunch of grapes, raising it a little till
the fruit lay in the bed of leaves prepared for
its repose, and then there was a sharp snip
of the scissors at the stalk, and the old man
looked down with a sort of serene joy in his
countenance.

Are they not lovely ? " he said, as he carefully
descended, until he stood in safety upon
the red-brick floor.

He held up the basket of violet-bloomed
berries for his visitor to see, smiling with
pleasure as he saw the openly-displayed admiration
for the beautiful fruit.

They make her so happy," said the old
man, with tears standing in his eyes. " Don't
think me weak, Mr. Koss. It is a sad thing,
all these many years, sir, to be confined to her
couch, helpless, and dependent on those who
love her," said the old man, again dreamily, ashe
gazed down at the grapes.

"Think you weak, Mr. Mallow?" cried

Luke, with energy. ''No, sir; I thank God
that we have such men as you on earth."

The old man shook his head sadly.

No, no — no, no," he said. " A weak, foolish,
indulgent man, Mr. Eoss, whom his Master
will weigh in the balance and find wanting.
]out I have tried to do my best — weakly, Mr.
Ross, but weakly. I fear that my trumpet
has given forth but an uncertain sound."

Just then an idea seemed to strike the old
man, who smiled pleasantly, set his basket
down, took another from a nail, and then
snipped more leaves, and gazed up at his
bunches for a few moments, his handsome old
face being a study as his eyes wandered from
cane to cane.

Suddenly his face lit up more and more,
and he turned to Luke.

You shall move the steps for me," he said.
Just there, under that large bunch."

Luke obeyed, wondering, and the old man
then handed him the basket and scissors.

"You shall cut that bunch for me, Mr.
Koss, please."

'' Eeally, sir, " began Luke.

"Please oblige me, Mr. Ross. You saw
low 1 did it. I will hold the steps ; you shall
not fall."

Luke smiled as he thought of the risk ; and
then, to humour the old man, he mounted, the
Rector watching him intently.

*you will be very careful, Mr. Ross," he
said. " Let the bunch glide, as it were, into
the leaves. A little more to the right. Now
then cut — cut ! "

The scissors gave a sharp snip, and the
second bunch reclined in its green bed.

I didn't think of it before," said the
Rector, whose face glowed with pleasure as
Luke descended. '* They are not quite so fine
as this bunch," he said, apologetically.

"Really, I hardly see any difference, Mr.
Mallow," replied Luke.

"Very little, Luke Ross. Will you carry
them home with you ? Your father will be
pleased with them, I know. He likes my
grapes, Mr. Ross."

Luke's answer was to grasp the old man's
hand, which he retained as he spoke.

I thank you, Mr. Mallow," he said. " It

was thoughtful and kind of you to the poor
old man. Now, may I say something to you ?
Forgive me if I bring up painful things."

It is something about Julia, or about my
son," gasped the Eector. " Tell me quickly —
tell me the worst."

Be calm, Mr. Mallow'' said Luke, quietly;
there is nothing wrong."

'' Thank God ! " said the old man, fervently,
with a sigh that was almost a groan. " Thank
God!"

"After some difficulty and long trying,
I obtained a permit for two visitors to see
Cyril Mallow at Peatmoor, and that permit
I have placed this afternoon in Mrs. Cyril's
hands."

Permission — to see my son ? " faltered the
old man.

"Yes, sir. I thought that you would
accompany your daughter-in-law to see him."

The old man stood with his hands clasped,
gazing sadly in his visitor's face, but without
speaking.

At last he shook his head sadly.

No," he said, " I cannot go. I should

dread the meeting. I think it would kill me,
Luke. But if it were my duty, I would go.
I have one here, though — one I cannot neglect.
It would take three or four days, at least, to
go and return. I could not leave my dear
wife as many hours, or I should return and
find her dead. Go for me, Luke. Take that
poor, suffering woman, and let her see him
once again."

I — I take her ? " cried Luke, starting.
"Mr. Mallow!"

It would be an act of gentle charity," said
the old man, " and I would bless you for your
love. But I must go now, Luke Eoss," he
said, half vacantly. " My head is very weak
now. I am old, and I have had much trouble.
You will give your father the grapes — with
my love ? "

He took up his own basket, and the sight of
the soft violet fruit appeared to soothe him,
for he began to smile pleasantly, seeming
quite to have forgotten the allusion to the
permit ; and in this spirit he walked with Luke
to the gate, shook hands almost affectionately
and they parted.

VOL. III. TJ

CHAPTEE XII.

A LONG SLEEP.

If the Eector was placid and calm once
more, so was not Luke Eoss, whose pulses
still throbbed more heavily than was their
wont, as he thought of the old man's words,
and then, as it were to weave itself in with
them, came the recollection of that which his
father had said. — that life was very short, and
begging him to do all the good he could.

"It is impossible," he cried at last. "I,
too, could not bear it."

He strode onward, walking more rapidly,
for a strange feeling of dread oppressed him,
and as he seemed to keep fighting against
the possibility of his acceding to the Eector's
request, the words of the weak old man he

had left asleep kept recurring, bidding him
try to do all the good he could, for life was so
very short.

But he will forget by tomorrow that he
asked me," said Luke, half aloud. "It is a
mad idea, and I could not go."

As he reached the town, first one and then
another familiar face appeared, and more than
one of their owners seemed disposed to stop
and speak, but Luke was too preoccupied, and
he hurried on to his old home to find the
housekeeper waiting for. him at the door.

How is he ? " he cried, quickly, for his
conscience smote him for being so long away.

Sleeping as gently as a baby, sir," the
woman said. '' Oh, what lovely grapes, sir.
He will be so pleased with them. The doctor
came in soon after you had gone out, and went
and looked at him, but he said he was not to
be disturbed on any account, so that he has
not had his beef-tea."

Luke found the table spread for his benefit
as he crossed the room to go gently up-stairs
and bend over the bed, where, as the housekeeper
had said, old Michael Eoss was sleeping

U2

as calmly as an infant. So Luke stole down
once more to partake of the substantial meal
prepared on his special behalf, the housekeeper
refusing to seat herself at the same table with
him.

No, sir," she said, stiffly, " I know my
duty to my betters too well for that. Michael
Eoss is an old neighbour, and knew my master
well before he died, poor man."

"Do you think one of us ought to sit
with my father?" said Luke, quickly, as the
woman's last words seemed to raise up a fresh
train of troublous thought.

"I'll go and sit with him, sir, if you like,"
said the woman, "but both doors are open,
and the ceiling is so thin that you can almost
hear him breathe."

Perhaps it is not necessary," said Luke,
quickly. " You'll excuse my being anxious."

"As if I didn't respect you the more for
it, Mr. Luke, sir," said the woman, warmly ;
but as I was saying, I always had my meals
with your dear father, sir."

Then why not sit down here ? "

Because things have changed, sir. We all

know how you have got to be a famous man,
and are rising still, sir ; and we are proud of
what you've done, and so I'd rather wait upon
you, if you please."

Luke partook of his meal mechanically,
listening the while for any sound from upstairs,
and twice over he rose and went up to
find that the sleep was perfectly undisturbed.

Then he reseated himself, and went on
dreamily, thinking of the old man's words.

Life is very short, my boy. Do all the
good you can."

Over and over again he kept on repeating
old Michael's words, when they were not, with
endless variations, repeating themselves.

Then came the possibility of his going down
with Sage to see Cyril Mallow.

No ; it is impossible," he said again.
Why should I go ? What right have I
there ? I cannot — I will not — go."

He rose, and went up-stairs to rest himself
by the old man's bed, finding that he had not
moved ; and here Luke sat, thinking of the
past, of the change from busy London, his
chambers, and the briefs he had to read.

Then he went back again in the past, seeming
to see in the darkness of the room, partly
illumined by a little shaded lamp, the whole
of his past career, till a feeling of anger
seemed to rise once more against Cyril Mallow,
against Sage, and the fate that had treated
him so ill.

Just then the housekeeper came up and
looked at the old man, nodding softly, as if to
say, "He is all right," and then she stole out
again on tiptoe.

Again the interweaving thoughts kept forming
strange patterns before the watcher s eyes,
as hour after hour calmly glided by till close
on midnight. Misery, despair, disappointment,
seemed to pervade Luke's brain, to the
exclusion of all thought of his great success,
and the troubles that must fall into each life,
and then came a feeling of calm and repose, ashe
thought once more of the words of the
patient old man beside whose bed he was
seated.

"I'll try, father," he suddenly said, "I'll
try. Self shall be forgotten, for the sake of
my promises to you."

He had risen with the intention of going
down on his knees by the old man's bed, when
the housekeeper entered the room.

I've brought you a cup of tea, sir," she
whispered. "It's just on the stroke of two,
sir, and I thought if you'd go to bed now I'd
sit up with him."

I mean to sit up with him to-night," said
Luke, quietly ; " but ought he to sleep so long
as this at once ? "

Old people often do, sir, and it does 'em
good. If you lean over him, sir, you can hear

how softly he is a breath Oh, Mr. Luke,

sir ! "

'' Quick ! the doctor," cried Luke, excitedly.
^' No ; I'll go," and he rushed to the door.

There was no need, for old Michael Eoss
was fast asleep — sleeping as peacefully and
well as those sleep who calmly drop into the
gentle rest prepared for the weary when the
fulness of time has come.

CHAPTER XIII.

SOUNDS IN THE FOG.

A WEEK had passed since old Michael Ross
had been conveyed to his final resting-places
followed by all the tradesmen of the place
and a goodly gathering beside, for in the
Wiltshire towns a neighbour is looked upon
as a neighbour indeed. While he lives he
may be severely criticised, perhaps hardly
dealt with ; but come sickness or sorrow, willing
hands are always ready with assistance ;
and when the saddest trial of all has passed,
there is always a display of general sympathy
for the bereft.

On this occasion pretty well every shop was
closed and blind drawn down.

And now the quaint country funeral was
past, the cakes had been eaten, and after

seeing, as well as he could, to his fathers
affairs, Luke had said his farewells to those
who were only too eager to manifest their
hearty goodwill.

The vehicle that was to take him to the
station was waiting at his door, and he
stepped in with his portmanteau, Portlock
being the driver ; and then, with a rattle of
hoofs and a whirr of wheels, they crossed the
market-place, followed by a hearty cheer, while
at door after door as they passed there were
townspeople waving hands and kerchiefs, till
the dog-cart was out of sight.

Luke could not help feeling moved at the
manifestations of friendliness, though, at the
same time, he smiled, and thought of how
strange these quaint, old-style ways of the
people, far removed from the civilizing influence
of the railway, seemed to him after his
long sojourn in the metropolis.

As he thought, he recalled the solemn processions
of hearses and mourning coaches, with
velvet and plumes, and trampling black, long-tailed
horses, common in London ; and in his
then mood he could not help comparing them

with the funeral of the week before, when
six of his fellow-townsmen lifted old Michael
Ross's coffin by the handles, and bore it between
them, hanging at arm's length, through
the town, with the church choir, headed by
their leader, singing a funeral hymn.

There seemed something far more touching
and appealing to the senses in these simple
old country ways ; and as Luke Ross pondered
on them his spirit was very low.

The Churchwarden respected his silence, and
did not speak save to his horse, a powerful
beast that trotted sharply ; and so they went
on till Luke was roused from his reverie by
the sudden check by the roadside.

He might have been prepared for it if he
had given the matter a thought, but he had
been too much wrapped up in his troubles to
think that if they were to pick up Mrs. Cyril
Mallow on the road it would probably be at
the end of this lane.

It came to him now, though, like a shock,
as Pdrtlock drew rein, and Luke recalled like
a flash how, all those years ago, he had leaped
down from the coach light-hearted and eager,

to follow the course of the lane, picking the
scattered wild flowers as he went, till he came
upon the scene which seemed to blast his
future life.

But there was no time for further thought,
and he drove away these fancies of the past
as he leaped down and assisted Sage Mallow,
who was waiting closely veiled with her aunt,
to mount into the seat beside her uncle, while
he took the back.

Then a brief farewell was taken, all present
being too full of their own thoughts to speak,
and almost in silence they drove over to the
county town, where one of the old farmer's
men had preceded them with the luggage, and
was in waiting to bring back the horse.

It was on a brilliant morning, a couple of
days later, that the party of three reached the
old West of England city, from whence they
would have to hire a fly to take them across to
the great prison at Peatmoor. The journey
had been made almost in silence. Sage being
still closely veiled, and seeming to be constantly
striving to hide the terrible emotion
from which she suffered.

At such times as they had stopped for
refreshment Luke had seemed to have completely
set aside the past, treating her with
a quiet deference, and attending to her in a
gentle, sympathetic way which set her at her
ease, while in her heart she thanked him for
his kindness.

Their plans had been that Portlock was to
be their companion to the prison gates, where
he would wait with the fly while Luke escorted
the sufferings woman within, of course leavings
her to meet her husband.

As they drove on with the battered old
horse that drew the fly, surmounting slowly
the successive hills that had to be passed
before they reached the bleak table-land overlooking
the far-reaching sea where the prison
was placed, Luke Ross could not help thinking
how strange it was that, with all around so
bright and fair in the morning sun, they alone
should be moody and sorrowful of heart. He
glanced at the Churchwarden, who returned
the gaze, but did not speak, only sank back
farther in his corner of the shabby vehicle.
He turned his eyes almost involuntarily upon

Sage, but there was no penetrating the thick
crape veil she wore, and had he met her gaze,
the chances are that he would have felt it
better not to speak.

Sage was bearing up bravely, but Luke
could see that from time to time some throb
of emotion shook her frame, and on one of
these occasions he softly opened the door of
the fly, and, without stopping the driver,
leaped out to walk beside the horse up the
steep moorland hill they were ascending.

Hard work for a horse, sir," said the man ;
and these roads are so awful bad. Government
pretends to make 'em wi' convict labour, but
the work is never half done."

They might break the stones a little
smaller," said Luke, absently.

Smaller, sir ! " said the driver, as the fly
jolted on, " why they ain't broke at all. Fine
view here, sir," he said as he stopped to let
the panting horse get its wind.

Splendid," said Luke, as he gazed at the
wide prospect of moorland and sea. There
was scarcely a tree to be seen, but the great
expanse was dotted with huge blocks of gray

granite, weather-stained, lichened, and worn
by centuries of battling with the storm. The
prevailing tint was gray, but here and there
were gorgeous patches of purple heather
golden broom, and ruddy orange-yellow gorse,
with creamy streaks of bog moss, heath pools,
and green clumps of water plants glistening in
the sun.

On his left was the deep blue sea, dotted
with white-sailed yachts and trawlers, with
luggers spreading each a couple of cinnamon-red
sails, and seeming to lie motionless upon
the glassy surface, for the ripple and heave
were invisible from the great height at which
they were.

"Aye, it's a fine view from up here, sir,
and though I don't know much about other
counties, I don't repose there's many as can
beat this."

"It is fine," said Luke, whose thoughts
were changed by the brightness of the scene,
and the brisk, bracing air sent a thrill of
pleasure through his frame.

They do say, sir, as you can zee a matter
of forty mile from a bit higher up yonder on a

clear time' continued the man, who appeared
glad of a chance to talk ; " but we shan't zee
that, nor half on it, to-day, sir, for there's a zeal
coming on, a regular thick one. Look, sir,
you can zee it come sweeping along over the
sea like smoke."

"It is curious," said Luke, watching the
strange phenomenon, as by degrees it blotted
out boat after boat, ship after ship, till it
reached the land, and seemed to begin ascending
the slopes.

Much as we shall do to reach the prison,
sir, before it's on us," said the man. " You
zee it's all up-hill, sir, or we could get on
faster."

But it will not matter, will it '? " said Luke,
You know the road ? "

Oh, I know the way well enough, sir, but
it comes on zo thick sometimes that all you
can do is to get down and lead the horse,
feeling like, to keep on the road."

But they don't last long, I suppose ? "

Half-an-hour some of 'em, sir, some an
hour, some for a whole day. There's no
telling when a fog comes on how long it's

going to be. All depends on the wind,

sir."

They are only inconvenient, these fogs, I
suppose ? " said Luke, as they went on ; '' there
is nothing else to mind."

"Lor', no, sir, nothing at all if zo he as
you've brought a bit o' lunch with you. When
I get into a thick one I generally dra' up to
the side of the road and put on the horse's
nose-bag, to let him amuse himself while I
have a pipe."

And where does the prison lie now ? "
said Luke, after a pause.

"That's it, sir," said the man, pointing
with his whip, " just where you zee the fog
crossing. They'll be in it before us, and perhaps
we shall be in it when they're clear. Perhaps
you'll get inside, sir, now ; I'm going to trot
the horse a bit."

I'll get up beside you," said Luke, quietly;
and he took his place by the driver.

Fine games there is up here some times,
sir," said the man, who was glad to find a
good listener. " The convicts are out in gangs
all over the moor, sir, working under the

charge of warders. Some's chipping stone,
and some's making roads ; and now and then,
sir, when there's a real thick fog, zone of 'em
makes a rnn for it, and no wonder. I should
if I had a chance, for they have a hard time
of it up there."
• " And do they get away ? "

Not often, sir," said the driver, as, with a
half-repressed shudder, Luke listened to the
man's words, for like a flash they had suggested
to him the possibility of Cyril Mallow trying
to effect his escape. " You zee the warders
look pretty sharp after them, and their orders
are strict enough. Once they catch sight of
a man running and he won't surrender, they
shoot him down."

'' So I have heard."

Yes, sir, they shoot un down like as if
they were dogs. They're bads uns enough, I
essay, and deserves it, but somehow it seems
to go again the grain, sir, that it do, to
shoot 'em."

"Then you would not shoot one if you
were a warder ? " said Luke, hardly knowing
what he spoke.

VOL. III. X

"I wouldn't if I was a zojer, sir. Poor
beggars' liberty's sweet, and may be if they
got away they'd turn over a new leaf. No,
sir, I wouldn't shoot 'em, and I wouldn't let
out to the warders which way a runaway had
gone. I'd scorn it," said the man, giving his
horse a tremendous lash in his excitement.

It does seem a cowardly thing to do."

Cowardly, sir ? It's worse," said the man,
indignantly. " I call it the trick of a sneak ;
but the people about here do it fast enough
for the sake of the reward."

There, sir, I told you so," continued the
man, after a quarter of an hour's progress,
during which he had been pointing out pieces
of scenery to inattentive ears. " The fog '11 be
on uz in vive minutes more."

They were descending a sharp hill as the
man spoke, and in half the time he bad named
they were in the midst of a dense vapour, so
thick that Luke fully realized the necessity
for stopping if they wished to avoid an
accident.

I think we can get down here, sir, and
across the next bit of valley, and then it will

perhaps be clearer as we get higher up. Anyhow
weel] try."

Keeping the horse at a walk, he drove
cautiously on, finished the descent, went along
a level for a short distance, and then they
began once more to ascend.

I'll try it for two or three hundred yards,
sir," said the man, " and then if it don't get
better we must stop and chance it."

What he meant by chancing it the driver
did not explain, but as with every hundred
yards they went the fog seemed thicker, he
suddenly drew the rein and pulled his horse's
nose-bag from beneath the seat.

If you'll excuse me, sir, I'd get inside if I
was you, and wait patiently till the wind
springs up. These, fogs are very raw and
cold, and rheumatics to strangers, and you
ain't got your great-coat on."

Hush ! man, what's that ? " said Luke,
excitedly, as just then came the dull distant
report of some piece.

Shooting," said the man, coolly, as he
took out the horse's bit and strapped on his
nose-bag.

X 2

Do you mean that shot was fired at a
convict ? " said Luke, hoarsely.

Safe enough," said the man.

Luke leaped down.

'' I think I'd draw up the windows, Mr.
Portlock," he said. "The fog is very dank
and chilly now."

Won't you come in ? "

Thanks, no. Draw up the windows. I'll
stop and chat with the man. I dare say the
mist will soon pass away."

As the windows were drawn up, Luke
uttered a sigh of relief, for it was horrible
to him that Sage should hear what was going
on, and just then there was another report,
evidently nearer.

I thought they'd be at it," said the man.
Mind me smoking, sir ? "

No : go on ; but don't speak so loudly. I
don't want the lady inside to hear."

All right, sir. Beg pardon," said the man,
lighting his pipe. " They're sure to make a
bolt for it on a day like this. Hear that, sir ?
I hope they won't shoot this way, for a rifle
ball goes a long way sometimes."

Yes, I heard, " said Luke, feeling an
unwonted thrill of excitement in his veins.
'that shot could not have been far oflP."

Half a mile, or maybe a mile, sir," replied
the man. " It's very hard to tell in a fog.
Zounds m deceiving. There goes another.
It's hot to-day, and no mistake."

Just then they heard a distcfat shout or two
answered in another direction, and once more
all was still.

'let's see, sir," said the driver, who stood
leaning against his horse, and puffing unconcernedly
away, perfectly cool, while Luke's
blood seemed rising to fever heat ; " it's just
about digs months since that I was driving
along here after a fog, and I come along a
gang carrying one of their mates on a roughly-made
stretcher thing, with half-a-dozen warders
with loaded rifles marching un along. The
poor chap they was carrying had made a bolt of
it, sir, but they had seen and fired at him ; but
he kept on, and they didn't find him for three
hours after, and then they run right upon him
lying by one of the little streams. Poor chap,
he was bleeding to death, and that makes 'em

thirsty, they say. Anyhow, they found him
scooping up the water with his hand, and drinking
of it, and as he come up alongside of me he
smiled up at me like, and then he zliut his eyes."

Did he die ? " asked Luke, hoarsely.

There was an inquest on him two days
after, sir. Lor ! they think nothing of shooting
down a man."

The fog was now denser than ever — so
thick, that from the horse's head where Luke
stood the front of the fly was hardly visible.
He was thinking with a chill of horror of the
possibility of any such incident occurring that
day, when once more there was a shout and
a shot, followed by another; and, to Luke's
horror, the window of the fly was let down.

Why, what do they find to shoot here ? "
said the Churchwarden, sharply; "hares or
wild deer ? "

Men, sir," said the driver, quickly ; and
as he spoke there was a loud panting noise,
and a dimly seen figure darted out of the mist
at right angles to the road and dashed heavily
against the horse, to fall back with a heavy

CHAPTER XIV.

THE CONVICTS ESCAPE.

The quiet, half-asleep horse, dreamily hunting
for grains of corn amidst a great deal of
chaff, threw up its head and made a violent
plunge forward, but was checked on the instant
by the driver.

'' What is it?" cried Portlock, leaping from
the fly, as Sage uttered a cry.

By this time Luke was trying to lift the
man, who had fallen almost at his feet, and
drawing him away from the horse's hoofs,
where he lay in imminent danger of being
kicked.

As far as Luke could see, he was a tall,
gaunt, broad-shouldered fellow, and it needed
not the flyman's information for him to know

that it was a convict — his closely-cropped hair
and hideous gray dress told that more plainly
than words could tell.

What does it mean ? '' said the Churchwarden
again. " Some one hurt ? "

As he spoke, Luke Eoss, who had laid the
man down, uttered an exclamation of horror.
His hands were wet with blood.

He is wounded ! " said Luke, in a whisper,
as he drew out his handkerchief, and sank
upon one knee. "Dont let Mrs. Mallow
come near."

His words of warning were too late, for just
then the figure of Sage Mallow seemed to
loom out of the fog, coming timidly forward
with outspread hands like a person in the
dark.

"He's hit hard," said the driver. "Poor
chap ! there's no escape for him."

Let his head rest upon your arm," said
Luke, hastily. " Mr. Portlock, tear my handkerchief
into three strips, and give me yours.
The poor fellow is bleeding horribly."

Who's that? Where am 1 1 Stand back,
cowards ! Fire, then, and be damned."

A low, wailing cry of horror checked him,
and Sage Mallow flung herself upon her knees
beside the injured man.

Cyril ! Husband ! " she cried, wildly.

The convict started violently, and drew
himself back.

Sage ! " he panted. " You— here ? ''

"Yes — yes!" she cried. "What is it?
Are you hurt ? "

Hurt ? Ha— ha— ha ! "

He laughed a strange, ghastly laugh.

I made a bolt for it. The brutes fired at
me — shot me like a dog."

Don't speak," said Luke, quickly. " Lie
still, and let me try to stop this bleeding."

Yes ; stop it quick ! " gasped the injured
man. " Yes, that's it — in the chest — it felt
red hot ; but it did not stop me running,
doctor. Lucky you were here."

Luke raised his face involuntarily, and the
men were face to face.

Luke Ross ! " gasped Cyril ; and for a few
moments, as Sie and Luke knelt on either
side of the wounded man, he gazed from one
to the other.

"Got a divorce?" lie said, with a harsh
laugh. " Are you married ? "

"No," cried Portlock, in a loud, emphatic
voice. " Sage was coming to see you with
me."

Lengthen," panted the wounded man,
fiercely, " what does he do here ? "

I came at your father's wish, Cyril Mallow,"
said Luke, softly, for somehow his own father s
words seemed to be repeating themselves in
his ear. " I obtained the order."

For ray release ? " cried Cyril, wildly.

For a visit," replied Luke. " Now, take
my advice. Be silent ; exertion makes your
wound bleed more."

Curse them ! no wonder," groaned the
unhappy man ; and he drew his breath with
a low hiss. " God ! it's awful pain."

Help me to lift him into the fly," whispered
Luke to Portlock and the driver.

Cyril — speak to me," whimpered Sage,
piteously. " You are not badly hurt ? "

"Murdered," he groaned. ''Oh, if I had
but a rifle and strength."

Hush ! " said Luke, sternly, " you are

wasting what you have left. Are you ready,
driver ? "

There'll be no end of a row about it when
the warders come, but I'll chance it, sir. Stop
a moment, and I'll open the farther door. It
will be easier to get him in."

Who said warders ? " panted Cyril, in
excited tones. " Are they here ? "

No, no. Pray be silent," whispered Luke.
"Mrs. Mallow, you must rise."

"No, no, I will not leave him," cried Sage.

We are going to try and get him down
into the town, Sage dear," said her uncle,
gently ; " to a doctor, girl."

She suffered her uncle to raise her up, and
then the three men bent down over Cyril to
bear him to the carriage.

Stop ! " he said, faintly. " I am not
ready. Something — under — my head — the
blood "

Luke raised his head, and he breathed more
freely, but lay with his eyes closed, the lids
quivering slightly, as Sage knelt beside him
once again, and wiped the clammy dew from
his brow.

It don't matter at present, gentlemen,"
said the driver. " I couldn't drive through
this fog. We should be upset."

Just then shouts were heard close at hand,
and the injured man opened his eyes and fixed
them in the direction of the sound.

"Demons !" he muttered, just as there was
another shot, and a loud shriek as of some one
in agony.

Another down," panted Cyril, with great
effort, as he seemed to be listening intently.

How long will it take us to get back to
the town ? " said Luke, quickly.

Two hours, sir, if the fog holds up. If it
goes on like this no man can say."

Mr. Portlock," said Luke, as he motioned
to Sage to take his place in supporting the
wounded man's head, " what is to be done ?
I am no surgeon, and my bandaging is very
rough. He is bleeding to death, I am sure,"
he whispered. " We must have a surgeon.
Had. I not better summon help ? "

'' Where from ? "

From the prison. A shout would bring
the warders."

I hear what you say," cried Cyril, fiercely.
Sage, that man is going to betray me to those
blood-hounds."

Luke ! " cried Sage, who was almost mad
with grief.

There is no surgical help to be got but
from the prison," said Luke, calmly. " I
proposed to send for it by the warders." .

'' Too late," said the injured man, in a low
voice. "Fifty surgeons could not save me
now. Let me be."

What shall I do ? " whispered Luke.

Poor fellow ! We had better call the
men."

It would kill him," groaned Luke ; and he
stood hesitating, Cyril watching him the while
with a sneering laugh upon his lips.

"It's a sovereign reward, lawyer," he said,
faintly. " Are you going to earn it ? "

For answer Luke knelt down there in the
mist, and poured a few drops of spirit from his
flask between the wounded man's lips.

He was about to rise, but Cyril uttered a
painful sob and caught at his hand.

I didn't mean it," he whispered, " I'm a

bad one. and the words came. I'd say God —
bless you — but — no good^from me."

Luke's cold thin hand closed upon the
labour-hardened palm of the wounded man,
and he remained there kneeling with Sage,
who held the other hand between both of
hers, and gazed helplessly, and as if stunned,
at hee: husband's face.

Glad — you came, Sage, once more," he
said. " Poor little widow ! " he added, with
a curious laugh.

Had we not better get the prison doctor
to you, Mallow ? " said Luke.

No good," he replied. " The game's up,
man. I know. Sage — tell the old lady I
thought about her — a deal. Have they
found poor Ju ? "

She stared at him still, for there was not
one loving word to her — not one question
about his children.

Poor thing I Always petted me," he
gasped — " poor mother ! "

Just then there were voices heard close
at hand, the trampling of feet ; and Cyril
Mallow's eyes seemed to dilate.

Hallo, here ! " cried a rough voice, as four
men seemed to appear suddenly out of the cold

gray mist. " Seen anything of Oh, here

we are, Jem ; one of the wounded birds."

The speaker, who was in the uniform of a
warder, strode up, and, bending down, roughly
seized Cyril by the shoulder.

Didn't get off this time, 'Under and
seven," he said. " Nice dance you've "

Hands off, fellow ! " cried Luke, indignantly.
" Do you not see that he is badly
hurt?"

Who are you ? " cried the warder, fiercely.
Don't you resist the law. Now then, 'Under
and seven, up with you. No shamming, you
know."

He caught the dying man's arm, as Cyril
gazed defiantly in his face, and made a snatch,
as if to drag him up, when, exasperated beyond
bearing at the fellow's brutality, and on seeing
Sage's weak effort to shield her husband, Luke
started up, and struck the ruffian so fierce a
blow, full on the cheek, that he staggered-back
a few steps, and nearly fell.

He was up again directly, as his three

companions levelled their pieces, and the sharp
click, click of the locks were heard.

Down with him, lads ! " cried the warder.
It's a. planned thing. They were waiting
with that fly."

The warders came on, but Luke did not
shrink.

You know," he said, firmly, ^' that your
man exceeded his duty. Here is the Home
Secretary's order for us to see this prisoner.
I shall report to-day's proceedings, you may
depend."

We've got our duty to do, sir," said one
of the men roughly. But he took the paper,
and read it.

Seems all right," he whispered. " Keep
quiet. Smith. They couldn't get away if they
wanted."

^' How long would it take to fetch the
surgeon ? " said Luke, sternly ; ''or could we
get him to the prison through the fog ? "

I think we could lead the horse," said the
warder addressed, who began to feel some
misgivings about the day's work, as he truly
read Cyril Mallow's ghastly face.

Luke — Luke Eoss," said a faint voice that
he did not seem to recognize, and he turned
and knelt down once more by the wounded
man, the warders closing in, to make sure that
it was no trick.

''Eoss — my hand," panted Cyril. "Fog's
getting thick — and dark. Smith — you fired
but — do you hear — I've got away."

There was a terrible pause here, and, to a
man, the warders turned away, for they saw
what was coming now.

Luke Eoss — good fellow — " panted the
dying man — " Sage — my wife — little ones."

His eyes seemed to give the meaning to his
words, as, still heedless of his wife's presence,
he gazed in those of the man whose life he
had seemed to blast.

"Wife — little ones. God for "

give you, Cyril Mallow," whispered

Luke, bending lower, " as I do, from my soul."

VOL. III.

CHAPTEE XV.

WIDOWED INDEED.

Better take the lady away, sir," said the
warder whom Luke had last addressed, and
who had shown some rough feeling, as he
beckoned him aside. " There'll be an inquest,
of course, and I must have your card and the
names of the others. There's sure to be a
row, too, about your hitting Smith."

Luke took out his card-case without a word.

Lady his wife, sir ? " said the man.

Yes, and her uncle," replied Luke, giving
the name of the hotel where they were staying.
I think we'll come on to the prison and seethe
governor."

'^ As you like, sir," said the warder ; '' but
if I might advise, I'd say take the lady away

at once, and cool down yourself before you
come. You could do no good now."

*' You are right, warder," said Luke, quietly,
as he slipped a couple of sovereigns into
the man's hand. " Send for the proper help,

and You understand me. He was a

gentleman."

o

You leave it to me, sir," said the warder ;
I know he was, and a high-spirited one, too.
Ah, there goes the fog."

And, as if by magic, the dense cloud of gray
mist rolled away, and the sun shone down
brightly upon the little white cambric handkerchief
wet with tears, spread a few moments
before over the blindly-staring eyes looking
heavenwards for the half-asked pardon.

Portlock was standing there, resting his
hands upon his stout umbrella gazing at where
his niece knelt as if in prayer by her husband's
corpse, and he started slightly as Luke laid a
hand upon his shoulder.

Let us go back," he whispered, and he
pointed to Sage.

The old farmer went to her and took her
hand.

Y 2
\

'^ Sage, my child' he whispered, " come :
let us go."

She looked up at him with a blank, woebegone
aspect, and clung to his hand.

"Not one loving word, uncle," she said,
slowly, but in a voice that reached no other
ears. " Not one word for me, or for my little
orphans. Oh, Cyril, Cyril," she moaned, as
she bent over him, raising the kerchief and
kissing his brow, " did you love me as I loved
you?"

She rose painfully as her uncle once more
took her hand to lead her to the fly, where he
seated himself by her side, Luke taking his
place by the driver ; and as they drove sadly
back to the old cathedral town, the fog that
had been over the land appeared to cling
round and overshadow their hearts.

It seemed to Luke as he sat there thinking
of Sage's sufferings that Nature was cruel, and
as if she was rejoicing over Cyril Mallow's
death, for the scene now looked so bright
and fair. He wished that the heavens would
weep, to be in unison with the unhappy
woman's feelings, and that all around should

wear a mourning aspect in place of looking so
bright and gay. Upon his right the deep
blue sea danced in the brilliant sunshine. Far
behind the gray fog was scudding over the
high lands, looking like a veil of silver
ever changing in its hues. Here and there
the glass of some conservatory flashed in the
sun-rays and darted pencils of glittering
light. The tints upon the hills, too, seemed
brighter than when they came, and he gazed
at them with a dull, chilling feeling of despair.

It seemed to him an insult to the suffering
woman within the fly, and with his heart
throbbing painfully in sympathy with her
sorrow", he thought how strangely these matters
had come about.

For the past three months this idea had
been in his head : to obtain the order for Sage
to see her husband ; but he had had great
difficulty in obtaining that he sought, and
now that he had achieved his end, what had
it brought ? Sorrow and despair — a horror
such as must cling even to her dying day.

The driver respected his companion's silence
for a time, but finding at last that there was

no prospect of Luke speaking, he ventured
upon a remark —

Very horrid, sir, wasn't it V

'' Terrible, my man, terrible," said Luke,
starting from his reverie.

I shall be called at the inquest, I repose.
This makes the third as I've been had up to, and
all for convicts shot when trying to escape. I
don't think it ought to he 'lowed."

Luke was silent, and the man made no
further attempts at conversation on their way
to the hotel.

The inquest followed in due course, and in
accordance with the previous examinations of
the kind. The convict who attempted to
escape did it at his own risk, his life being, so
to say, forfeit to the laws, and after the stereotyped
examinations of witnesses, the regular
verdict in such cases was returned, the chaplain
improving his discourse on the following
Sunday by an allusion to the escaped man's
awful fate, and the necessity for all present
bearing their punishment with patience and
meekness to the end.

The warning had such a terrible effect upon

the men that not a single attempt to escape
occurred afterwards for forty-eight hours, that
is to say, until the next sea-fog came over the
land, when three men from as many working-parties
darted off, and of these only one was
recaptured, so that the lesson taught by
Cyril Mallow's death was without effect.

There was some talk of a prosecution of
Luke for striking the warder, scut on the
governor arriving; at a knowledge of the facts,
he concluded that it would be better not to
attack one so learned in the law ; besides
which, the authorities were always glad to
have anything connected with one of their
judicial murders put out of sight as soon as
possible, lest people of Radical instincts should
make a stir in Parliament, and there should
be a great call for statistics, a Committee of
Inquiry, and other troublesome affairs. Consequently
no more was said, and Luke Ross,
after seeing Sage and her uncle to the station,
returned to his solitary chambers, and laboured
hard at the knotty cases that were thrust
constantly into his hands.

For work was the opiate taken by Luke Russ

to ease the mental pain he so ofteii suffered
when he allowed his thoughts to dwell upon
the past. He found in it relief, and, unconsciously,
it brought him position and wealth.

He had not revisited Lawford, but from
time to time the solicitor there who had the
settlement of his father's affairs sent him
statements, accompanying them always with a
little business-like chat, that he said he thought
his eminent fellow-townsman would like to
have.

Luke used to smile at that constantly-recurring
term, " eminent fellow townsman," which
the old solicitor seemed very fond of using ;
but he often used to sigh as well when he read
of the changes that took place as time glided
on. How that Fullerton had ceased to carp
at church matters, and raise up strife against
church rates, being called to his fathers, and
lying very peacefully in his coffin when the
man he had so often denounced read the
solemn service of the church, and stood by ashe
was laid in that churchyard.

The Rector, too, Luke learned, had grown
very old and broken of late, and it was

expected, people said, that poor Mrs. Mallow
could not last much longer, for she had been
smitten more sorely at the news of the death
of her erring son, the paralysis having taken a
greater hold, and weakened terribly her brain.

Old Mr, Mallow goes a good deal to Kilby
Farm," the solicitor said in one of his letters,
'' and the little grandchildren go about with
him in the woods. Portlock talks of giving
up his farm and retiring, but he'll never doit
as long as he lives, and so I tell him.

*' If there's any farther news I will save it,

and send it with my next," he continued.

"But I should advise you to take Wanton's

offer for the house in the market-place on a

lease of seven (7), fourteen (14), or twenty-one

(21) years, determinable on either side. He

will put in a new plate-glass front, and do all

repairs himself. He is a substantial man,

Wanton, and you could not do better with

the property. — I am, dear sir, your obedient

servant,

"James Littler.

"Pes. — I have directed this letter to your
chambers in King's Bench Walk. I little

thought when I drew up the minutes of meeting
deciding on your appointment as Master of
Lawford School — an arrangement opposed, as
you may remember, in meeting, by late Fullerton
— I should ever have the honour of addressing
you as an eminent counsel."

Luke wrote back by return : —

Dear Mr. Littler, — Thank you for your
kind management of my property. I hold Mr.
Wanton in the greatest respect, and there is no
man in Lawford I would sooner have for my
tenant. But there are certain reasons, which
you may consider sentimental, against the
arrangement. I wish the old house and its
furniture to remain quite untouched, and
widow Lane to stay there as long as she will.
She was very kind to my father in his last
illness, and she has had her share of trouble.
I am sure he would have wished her to stay.

Very glad to hear of any little bits of news.
Yes, certainly, put my name down for what
you think right for the coal fund and the other
charity. — Very truly yours,

'' Luke Ross,"

CHAPTER XVI.

AFTER FOUR YEARS.

Four years in the life of a busy man soon
glide away, and after that lapse there were certain
little matters in connection with his late
father's property, that Luke seized upon as an
excuse for going down to Lawford once again.

He had one primary object for going, one
that he had nursed now for these four years, and
had dwelt upon in the intervals of his busy toil.

In spite of all bitterness of heart, he had
from time to time awakened to the fact that
the old love was not dead. There had always
been a tiny spark hidden deeply, but waiting
for a kindly breath to make it kindle into a
vivid flame.

His position had led him into good society,
and he had been frequently introduced to what
people who enjoyed such matters termed

eligible matches, but it soon became evident to
all the matchmakers that the successful barrister,
the next man spoken of for silk, was not a
marrying man ; in short, that he had no heart.

No heart !

Luke Ross knew that he had, and from time
to time he would take out his old love, and
think over it and wonder.

Four years since," he said, one evening, ashe
sat alone in his solitary chambers. " Why
not ? "

Then he fell into a fit of self-examination.

Cyril Mallow seemed to ask me to be protector
to his wife and children, and I would
have done anything I could, but Portlock and
Cyril's father have always met Littler with the
same excuse. * There is plenty for them, and
the offer would only give Mrs. Cyril pain.' "

But why not now ?

He sat thinking, gazing up at the bronzed
busts of great legal luminaries passed away, and
at the dark shadows they cast upon the walls.

'' Do I love her ? Heaven knows how truly
and how well."

He smiled then — a pleasant smile, which

seemed to take away the hardness from his
thoughtful face.

But it was not of Sage he was thinking, but
of her two little girls and his meeting with
them in the Kilby lane.

God bless them ! " he said, half aloud, " I
love them with all my heart."

The next day he was on his way down to
Lawford, a calm, stern, middle-aged man,
thinking of how the time had fled since, full of
aspirations, he had come up to fight the battle
for success. Sixteen years ago now, and success
was won ; but he was not happy. There
was an empty void in his breast that he had
never filled, and as he lay back in his corner
of the carriage, he fell into a train of pleasant
thoughts.

The time had gone by for young and ardent
love ; but why should not he and Sage be
happy still for the remainder of their days ?

And then, in imagination, he saw them both
going hand in hand down-hill, happy in the love
of those two girls, whom he meant it to be his
end and aim to win more and more to himself.

God bless them ! " he said again, as he

thought of the flowers the younger one had
offered him, of the kiss the other had imprinted
upon his hand ; and at last, happier
and brighter than he had felt for years, he
leaped out of the carriage and ordered a fly
and pair to take him to Kilby Farm.

His joyous feelings seemed even on the increase
as he neared the place, in spite of the
tedious rate at which they moved, and turning
at last after the long ride into the Kilby lane,
he came in sight of the snug old farm just as
the setting sun was gilding the windows.

The Churchwarden was at the door with a
smile of welcome as Luke leaped from the fly
and warmly grasped his hand.

"I knew you would come," he said; "but
how quick you have been. When did you
get my letter ? "

Your letter ? ''

'eyes; asking you to come. She begged
me to write."

Then it was inspiration that brought me
here. She will welcome me as I wish," he cried.
'' I have not had your letter. Take me to herat
once, I have wasted too much time as it is."

Heaven bless you for coming, Luke," said
the old man, with trembling voice. " It was
the mistake of my life that I did not let you
wed."

*' Never too late to mend," said Luke, smiling,
and then he saw something in the farmer's
face that turned him ghastly white.

'' Sage ? " he gasped. " Is she ill ? "

111 ? " faltered the farmer. "I forgot you
could not know. Luke, my boy ! my poor
bairn ! She cannot last the night."

"Stop that fly," panted Luke. "A telegram
— to London — to Sir Poland Murray — I
know his address — to come at once, at any
cost. Paper, man, for God's sake — quick —
pens — ink. Moments mean life."

'* Moments mean death, Luke Eoss," said
the Churchwarden, solemnly. " My boy, I
have not spared my useless money. It could
not save her life. She knows that you have
come. She heard the wheels."

Luke followed the old man to the upper
chamber, fragrant with sweet country scents,
and then staggered to the bedside, to throw
himself upon his knees.

Sage ! My love ! " he panted, as he caught
her hand. " You must live to bless me — my
love, whom I have loved so long. It is not
too late — it is not too "

He paused as he too truly read the truth,
and bent down to catch her fleeting breath
that strove to shape itself in words.

I could not die until I saw you once again.
No ; Luke — friend — brother — it could not
have been. Quick," she cried. *' My children
quick ! "

The Churchwarden went softly from the
room, while poor old Mrs. Portlock sank down
in a chair by the window, and covered her face
with her hands.

I have been dying these two years, Luke,"
whispered Sage, faintly. " Now, tell me that
you forgive the past."

Forgive 1 It has been forgiven these
many years," he groaned. '' But, Sage, speak
to me, my own old love."

She smiled softly in his face.

No," she said, " not your love, Luke. My
children. You will — for my sake — Luke ? "

He could not speak, but clasped the little

ones to this breast — partly in token of his
silent vow^partly that they might not see
Sage Mallow's sun set, as the great golden orb
sank in the west.

Death had his work to do at Lawford as
elsewhere, and the sleepy little town was
always waking up to the fact that some
indweller had passed away.

It was about a week earlier that Polly
Morrison sat waiting and working by her one
candle, which shed its light upon her pleasant,
comely face. The haggard, troubled look had
gone, and though there were lines in her forehead,
they seemed less the lines of care than
those of middle age.

Every now and then she looked up and
listened for the coming step, but there was
only an occasional sough of the wind, and the
hurried rush of the waters over the ford, for
the stream was high, and the swirling pools
beneath the rugged old willow pollards deep.

Polly heard the rush of the waters, and a
shudder passed through her, for she recalled
Jock Morrison's threat about Cyril years ago.

VOL. HI. z

This sec her thinking of him and his end ;
from that she journeyed on in thought to Sage
Mallow, the pale, careworn widow, slowly sinking
into her grave ; and this suggestive theme
made the little matronly-looking body drop
her work into her lap, and sit gazing at the
glowing wood fire, wondering whether Mrs.
Mallow or Sage would die first, and whether
Miss Cynthia, as she always called her, was
soon coming down to Gatley so as to be
near.

Then her thoughts in spite of herself went
back to another death scene, and the tears
gathered in her eyes as she saw once more
that early Sunday morning, when the earth
lay dark in a little mound beneath the willow,
where a religiously-tended little plot of flowers
always grew.

I wish Tom would come back," she said,
plaintively. " It is so lonely when he has to
go into town."

She made an effort to resume her work,
and stitched away busily for a time, but her
nimble fingers soon grew slow, and dropped
once more into her lap, as the waters roared

loudly once again, and she thought of Cyril
Mallow, then of Jock, lastly of Julia.

"I wonder where they are?" she said,
softly. " Sometimes I've thought it mio^ht be
my fault, though I don't see how — At last ! "

There was a step outside and with brightening
face she snuffed the candle, and glanced
at the table to see that Tom's supper was ashe
liked it to be.

Then she stopped in alarm, gazing sharply
at the door, for it was not Tom's step, bub a
faintly heard hesitating pace, half drowned by
the rushing noise from the ford.

Who can it be ? " she muttered, and then
her face turned ghastly white.

'^ Something has happened to Tom ! "

She stood there as if paralyzed, as a faint
tapping sounded on the door — the soft hesitating
tap of some one's fingers ; and the
summons set Polly trembling with dread.

What can it be ? " she faltered. " Oh, for
shame ! what a coward I am ! " she cried, as
she roused herself, and going to the door, her
hand was on the latch just as the summons
was faintly repeated.

Z 2

Who's there ? What is it ? " cried Polly,
stoutly; but there was no answer, and taking
up the candle, she held it above her head and
flung open the door, to see a thin, ill clad
woman holding on by one of the rough fir
poles that formed the porch, gazing at her
with wild, staring eyes, her face cadaverous,
thin, and pinched, and her pale lips parted as
if to speak.

Miss Julia ! " cried Polly, with a faint
shriek, and setting down the candle, she caught
the tottering figure by the arm and drew her
in, the door swung to, and the wanderer was
held tightly to her breast.

Oh, my dear, my dear ! " sobbed Polly.
"How could you — how could you? Oh, that
it should come to this ! "

Her visitor did not answer, but seemed
to yield herself to the affectionate caresses
that were showered upon her, a faint smile
dawning upon her thin lips, and her eyes
half closing as from utter weariness and
pain.

'^ Why you're wet, and like ice ! " cried
Polly, as she realized the facts. " Oh, my

poor dear ! How thin ! How ill you look !
Oh, my dear, my dear ! "

She burst into a piteous fit of sobbing,
]put her hands were busy all the time, as she
half led, half carried her visitor to Tom's big
Windsor chair, and then piled up some of
the odd blocks of wood, of which there were
always an abundance from the sho).

Oh, what shall I do ? " muttered Polly; and
then her ideas took the customary womanly
route for the panacea for all ills, a cnj} of
tea, which was soon made, and a few mouthfuls
seemed to revive the fainting woman.

She ought to have the doctor," muttered
Polly. " Oh, if Tom would only come ! "
Then aloud — '' Oh, Miss Julia, my dear, my
dear ! "

Hush ! " said her visitor, in a low, painful
voice, as if repeating words that she had learned
by heart ; " the Julia you knew is dead."

"Oh, no, no, my dear young mistress,"
sobbed Polly, and she went down upon her
knees, and threw her arms round the thin, cold
figure in its squalid clothes. " Tom will be
home directly, and he shall fetch the doctor

and master. Oh, my dear, my dear ! that it
should come to this ! But tell me, have you
left Jock Morrison ? "

The wretched woman shuddered.

They have taken him away," she whispered;
" he was in trouble — with some keepers
but he will be out some day, and I must goto
him again. He will want me, Polly — and
I must go ! "

Polly Morrison gazed at her with horror,
hardly recognizing a lineament of the girl in
whose soft hair she had taken such pride,
and whom she had admired in her youth and
beauty.

But you must not go back," cried the
little woman. " There, there, let your head
rest back on the chair. Let me go and fetch
you a pillow."

'' No, don't go, Polly," and the thin hands
closed tightly about those so full of ministering
care. " I'm tired — I've walked so far."

Walked ? Miss Julia ! "

Hush ! Julia is dead," she moaned. " Yes,
walked. It was in — Hampshire, I think —
weeks ago." ^.

And YOU walked ? Oh, my dear, my
dear ! " sobbed Polly.

I ^Yas — so weary — so tired, Polly," moaned
the wretched woman ; " and — I was — always
thinking — of your garden — that little baby —
so sweet — so sweet."

'' Oh, Miss Julia, Miss Julia, pray, pray
don't ! " sobbed Polly.

Mine died — years ago — died too — they
took it — took it away. I thought if I could
get — get as far — you would "

She stopped speaking, and raised herself
in the chair, holding tightly by Polly
Morrison's hands, and gazing wildly round the
room.

Miss Julia ! "

"Is it dreaming ?" she cried, in a hoarse
loud Voice. " No, no," she said softly, and
the slow, weary, hesitating syllables dropped
faintly again from her thin, pale lips. " I —
tried — so hard — I want to — to see — that little
little grave — Polly — the little one — asleep."

'" Miss Julia ! Oh, my dear, my dear."

For — Pm — Pm tired, dear. Let — let me
see it, Polly — let me go — to sleep."

Miss Julia— Miss Julia ! Help ! Tom—
Tom ! Quick— help ! Oh ! my God I "

As wild and passionate a cry as ever rose to
heaven for help, but it was not answered.

And the Eev. Lawrence Paulby stood
amidst the crowd that thronged Lawford
churchyard, — a hushed, bare-headed crowd, —
but his voice became inaudible as he tried to
repeat the last words of the service beside
poor Julia s grave.

THE END.

CLAY AND TAYLOR PRINTERS. S. d' If.

''^kmM

'■MM
