OF THE

UNIVERSITY

or ILLINOIS

Granville Club

^^/^^^'TL^

■£/'1>-a-^l/>v-f'^^—^

SWEET Made

A SUSSEX LEGEND OF THE IRON TIMES.

BY

vT1V

G. Danville F^-NN.

IN Three VOLUMES.
VOL. I.

LONDON : CHAPMAN & HALL,
LIMITED.

18^4.

hall Ri'jhis Reserved.]

NICHOLS AND SONS, I'ttlNlJiUb,

25, Parliament Street.

CONTENTS.

d. VOLUME I.

- CHAP. PAGE

^^ I. How Gil Carr heard a Concert in
^ Spring 1

^"^ II. How THE King's Messenger sought
^ Roehurst Pool in July, and what he

saw 14

III. How Jeremiah Cobbe damned His Majesty
King James the First . . 38
^- IV. How sir Mark stayed at the Pool
v^ House, and Jeremiah Cobbe delivered

;^^ a Homily on Angling 58

f. V. How THE Founder set a Trap to catch

^ A Lover 81

VI. How Wat Kilby went wooing . .102
^ VII. How Mistress Anne sought a Spell . 118
"f^ VIII. How the Spell began to work . . 14G
IX. How Mother Goodhugh played the

c;^ ' part of ShIMEI OF OLD . . .162

H X How Tom Croftly took his Chastisement
. 184



XI. How Gil signalled in vain . . . 198
XII. How Master Peasegood entertained

his Friend 212

XIII. How THE Forest Spirits paid their

Debts . . . 226

XIV. How Mother Goodhugh cursed Abel

Churr 239

XV. How Abel Churr bought a Secret . 252

XVI How Tom Croftly had a Holiday . . 269
XVII How Gil and Sir Mark measured

Swords 291

XVIII. How A Casement was opened . . 325

CHAPTER I,

HOW GIL CARR HEARD A CONCERT IN SPRING.

'' Too soon for sweet mace — a bunch for
sweet Mace," said Gil Carr as he bent
down amongst the sedges to pick the bright
blue scorpion grass, its delicate flowers relieved
with yellow, ^^ so she must have
forget-me-not. I wonder whether she'll
keep some when I'm far away."

He stopped and smiled and listened, for
the morning concert was beginning two
hundred and fifty years ago, at four o'clock

VOL. I. B

in the morning and down in a Sussex valley
near the sea.

A long while since ? Nay, a mere instant
of time in this world's life ; and spite of all
some writers say, and though we now have
steam and electric current to our hand, two
hundred and fifty years ago men thought
and spoke the same — perhaps a little more
roughly than they do now.

There was the pleasant gurgle of water at
Gil Carr's feet, and as he drew back from
where the stream rippled and swirled, and
a trout darted into sight, saw him, and flashed
away beneath the shelter of a jutting stone,
he paused beneath the spreading branches of
the trees, half closed his eyes, thought of
sweet Mace, and revelled, as young men of
eight-and-twenty can who love to place one
object in the chief est spot of all they see.

Here is the site of Gil Carr's musings,
for untouched Nature shows little change.
Overhead there is a fabric of tenderest green

leaves, laced with pearly cobweb and flashing
threads of sunshine, which run in and
out like sheaves of glorified asbestos, and
weave the whole into a wondrous shelter
beneath whose delicious dream-shadow one
wanders in a haze of green. For Nature's
own colour is lavishly used to decorate this
glorious amphitheatre for the first concert
in spring, and there it is in every shade,
from the sweet pale ash-green of the opening
willow to the rich hue of the dogs' mercury
and hemlock. Green everywhere, for the
delicate curtains of the trees are green, the
carpet is verdant, and the banks that rise
tier upon tier are of the richest velvet moss.
There is no uniformity here, there are no
rows of seats, but a grand confusion, upon
which the eye lingers resentfully and which
it refuses to quit.

Lest there should be too much green,
Nature has been lavish with other colours.
There rise up the fascines of osiers from
B 2

the lowest part of the gurgling stream,
light leafy smooth stems of a golden yellow;
there are the oak boles creamy and
grey with wondrous lichens; grey, silvery,
and golden tassels hang from sallow, alder,
and willow, and the carpet is dotted with
delicious patches of tint. Yonder, harmoniously
blended with the green, is the purple
of the wild hyacinth, amidst which,
and dotting the carpet everywhere with its
delicate sulphur stars, is the primrose, with
the burnished bullion yellow of the celandine
close by, amidst which, bending gracefully
over, half modest, half vain, are the silver
stars of the wood anemone, displaying their
outer tints of delicate violet mauve.

Talk of violets too, there they are, not
the scented sweets of earliest spring, but the
larger, bluer, more plentiful Viola canine
growing in patches with the purple orchids.
Colour ? There is ample to relieve the
greenest green, untiring though it be, and

were brighter tints wanted they are here,
such as put to shame the brightest gems of
our greatest jewellers' shops. There they are,
whenever the silvery arrows of the sun flash
through the delicate leafage like a wondrous
rain — there they are, bright, dazzling, flashing,
and sparkling, the vivid transparent
grouped rays of Iris herself on every pearly
drop of dew, lying waiting for the sun to
gather it to his bosom, and feel the daily
fire of his life-giving ray. Nature has surpassed
herself, and all is bright, while,
bright though the decorations be, the most
aesthetic critic could not find one that offends.
There could be no want of finish where
Nature has worked, and here, where all
harmonises to the eye, she has prepared, for
the grand burst of harmony for the ear, that
wondrous concert that surely begins on one
particular undated morning in spring, whenas
if moved by a single impulse, all bird-dom
breaks forth into song — a song of praise

SO sweet and glorious that the heart seems
to leap, ay, and does leap, back over the gulf
of years, to feel as in childhood's days, before
rust, canker, and the world's own wear had
hardened it to what it is.

There are no bills issued. If there were,
they would say, ^^ Come early." If you do
not, the loss is yours. There are no programmes,
for the oratorio is Nature's song
of praise. As to tickets, they are minus too,
for the cost of entrance is the effort to drag
yourself from the drowsy pillow. And seats ?
No, you must stand. Lean here against
this mossy old bole, and listen. Nature,
the great conductress of the orchestra, has
arrived, and in a few moments she will
raise her baton ^ and the concert will begin.
Rehearsal has been going on for weeks, and
various artists have been tuning up. Night
after night, till quite dark, the thrush has
piped ; the robin has worked hard in a low
subdued voice to recollect the plaintive little

song he sang so well while the apples were
gathered and the leaves turned to crimson
and gold on the medlar tree; while every
here and there, where the buds began to
swell, the chaffinch— Celebes, the bachelor —
in his pretty tinted suit of grey and green
and neutral hues, seemed busy day by day
carrying up little buckets of silver sound,
and pouring them tinkling down amidst the
leafless sprays. But this morning, rehearsal
is over, and the concert is to begin — the
full burst from every chorister, solo singer,
and instrumentality, many of whom have
been practising since the first faint grey of
dawn, when the blackbird first scattered the
spray from the leaves, and darted, like a
streak of black velvet following a point of
fire, down amidst the hazel stubbs, crying
^^ chink, chink," to the waking birds.

Hark ! the company is all expectation for
the concert to begin ; there is the deep low
humming buzz and murmur as of thousands

speaking in a vasty hall. Tell me it is the
bees and other insects honey and pollen
gathering amidst the willow blossoms if you
will, but I prefer to dream of being in a
grand amphitheatre with an oratorio about
to commence, and the whim fits me as I
stand and listen here, fancy stricken, weak,
if you will, but with swelling heart, dew-moistened
eyes, and so wondrous a feeling
of rapture pervading every sense, that, forgetful
of the bitter, biting past — the cruel
winter and its aches and ails, the soul seems
to rise in gratitude from its very being for
the wondrous sense of joy it feels, and herein
the sacred stillness of the early morn to
cry, '^ Thank God!" and compare the country
with the town.

Tuning up still. There is the strange
harsh, reedy, repeated, hautboy-like minor
note of the wryneck — the cuckoo's mate not
long arrived ; the willow wren jerks forth
two notes from its piccolo ; and the blackbird,

dropping its alarm note, begins to
flute so softly and sweetly that it needs no
programme to tell that the theme is love.
Up rises the lark, then, after a short chorus
to sing his solo, a song of silver broken into
,seed, a song that the sweet bird seems to
carry higher and higher, scattering as it
goes, for the notes to fall here, there, and
everywhere, to be wafted away by winds
for the silver grains to fall into human
beings' ears, where they take root and stay,
never to be forgotten ; for, though the possessor
roam the wide world round, the song
of the lark once heard is never lost.

Another solis, the foreign musician from
over the sea, with its mellow cuckoo note ;
and then comes an introduction from the
orchestra, where the starlings wheeze and
drum, and play castanets. There are strange
effects, too, introduced by the great composer,
harsh trumpet brays by the blue-barred
jays, answered by gentle cooing

from the doves, as if tyranny and love sang
duets, and then a grand chorale rises as the
thrush leaves off its stirring recitative.

Again a solo, morning though it be, and
you say ^^the thrush." But no, those notes
were somewhat like those of the great contralto
merula ; but listen, they are sweeter
far, and they are soprano, for it is Philomel
herself. Hark ! After those long complaining
notes there is a familiar ^* Weep, weep, weep,
chug-chug-chug-chug-chug!" The very orchestra
seems hardly to breathe and not a
chorister to move as this wondrous strain of
richest melody goes rising, falling, thrilling
the breast, till one breathes the sweet fresh
balmy air in sobs, and drinks in the sweet
draught of music — a drink for the gods till
it is ended, and there are no dregs. Here
come the harsh notes, though, from the
orchestra — a short sharp jerky recitative
from the magpie, followed by the angry
declamation of the jay, leading up to those

little fiddlers the chaffinches, with their
seconds, the finches of green, and the linnets
on the outer edge. There is a short running
chorus here, followed by a short chorale that
is even slow and solemn, and then there is a
pause — twelve bars rest — Nature's baton is
suspended, and one seems to see the grand
dame with her attendant train of nymphs,
with Flora and Iris looking on. Then come
once more the soft long thrilling notes of
the nightingale, reciting the song with which
at night the grove will ring. It is recitative
of inexpressible sweetness, and it leads
up to the grand chorus, the great song of
praise from thousands of birds' throats,
beneath which seems to sigh like the murmur
of the deepest pedal-pipes of an organ
the low buzz of insect life, blending, supporting,
and adding grandeur to that which is
already great.

It is the great spring chorus of the year,
when every bird seems to sing his best, and

vie with his fellow in the effort to produce
the sweetest sounds. Once heard never forgotten,
it is a something that the greatest
traveller will tell you cannot be surpassed,
while there are millions year by year, who
from neglect or compulsion fail to hear,
though the concert is free to every one who
will trouble himself to get a place and fill
his heart with joy that is without a care.

When is this concert ? Perhaps in April,
perhaps in May. It is when the east wind
ceases to dry, and the balmy south breathes
sweetness over the awakened earth. It is
indeed a ^' sensation " matchless in itself and
particular to our land, though some such
harmony must have greeted the senses of the
first man when he opened his eyes to the
flowers of the new-made earth, and drank in
its sweets and joys.

'^ My hands are hot," said Gil Carr, the
Adam of the little Eden of a wilderness, ashe
thought upon his Eve ; and returning to

the stream once more, he dipped the bunch
of forget-me-nots beneath the gurgling current,
afterwards wrapping the stems round
with the broad leaf of a dock, and walked
away trying to imitate the piping of the
nightingale, and wondering how long it
would be before the glow-worms would begin
to light their lamps in the soft warm evenings
; while he smiled as he thought of the
signals they had made upon the sloping
bank that stretched up to the hedge of hawthorn
fronting Mace's casement, where the
pale white roses grew.

CHAPTER II.

HOW THE king's MESSENGER SOUGHT ROEHURST
POOL IN JULY, AND WHAT HE SAW.

'' Sir Thomas, and if I did not feel bound to
carry out my royal master's commands, I'd
go no further, but sit down here on this
shady bank, and bask in the sunshine of
your daughter's eyes. Once more I say, is
there any ending to this winding lane''

'' Patience, Sir Mark ; pray have patience,"
said portly Sir Thomas Beckley, baronet
and justice of the peace, as he took off
his sugar-loaf hat with its plume of cock's
feathers, and wiped the great beads of perspiration
from his pink brow. ^^ Patience;
and pray do not stuff my daughter's head

with courtly phrases, or you will make her
vain."

'patience? Why, Sir Thomas, it is for
her sake I am speaking. This lane has gone
up and down, and in and out, and backwards
and forwards, till my heart aches
more than my legs to see her pretty little
feet getting wedged between stones, and her
face flushed with toil."

^^ Well, yes," said Sir Thomas, 'Hhe roads
are rather bad down here in Sussex."

^ ' Bad, man ? Why, they are abominable.
They are as if cursed by witches. In winter
they must be sloughs and pits for unwary
feet."

^^ This is but a by-road. Sir Mark," said
the baronet, pompously.

^^ By-road, indeed! Mistress Anne, why
did you not have the carriage ? "

This lane was never meant for carriages.
Sir Mark," cried Sir Thomas, hastily. ^^The
last time I had it brought down here, my

two stout horses dragged the fore wheels
from the body."

'' The ruts are ready to drag my legs
from my body, Sir Thomas ; and, fiends and
torture, what blocks ! Why, what rock is
that?"

refuse or cinder from the iron forges.

Sir Mark," replied the baronet, with the air

of a guide. ^'In this district, sir, the finest

iron is found in abundance just below the

surface."

And you own a goodly portion of the
land, Sir Thomas?" said Sir Mark, with an
involuntary glance at the lady.

'^ Well, yes," replied the baronet with a
round look of satisfaction; ^^ I have a fair
number of acres and some wide-spread forest
land for timber and charcoal-burning should
I care to smelt."

Happy man," said Sir Mark. '^ 'Tis a
pleasant life down here in these woods.
But Mistress Anne, is it not dull in winter ?"

*'0h, yes, Sir Mark, so dull; and we are
shut in at times for weeks."

"No wonder with such roads as these.
Sir Thomas, have you no pity for your
daughter's state ? "

'^ The weather has come in hot," said Sir
Thomas, carefully taking off his plumed hat.
*but we are just there now; shall we rest
awhile?"

"Ay, that we will. Mistress Anne, here
is a fallen tree with waving bracken and the
shining leaves of the beech to shelter you
from the sun. There, am I right — is that
oak — are those bracken fronds?"

"Quite right," said the lady addressed,
as, either from the action of her heart or the
warmth of the sun, she blushed deeply, the
red glow spreading up to the deep auburn,
fuzzy hair that gathered over her freckled
forehead. Then carefully spreading her
skirts she seated herself upon the fallen
trunk of a huge oak that had been felled the

VOL. I. c

previous winter, judging by the state of the
chips that still lay around, the branches
having been lopped, cut into short lengths,
and piled into a long low stack.

*^Ah, that is restful," said Sir Mark,
smiling down at the lady, while the baronet
glanced from one to the other, dabbed his
face, and then pressed down the feather-stuffed
breeches that puffed out his hips ; also
his best, put on in honour of his visitor from
town, but evidently unpleasant wear in the
hot and airless lane.

^^May I sit by thee, sweet — or at your
feet?" whispered Sir Mark, with a glance
at the angular oak-chips blackened by the
action of the iron-impregnated water that
sometimes rushed down the lane.

For answer Mistress Anne uttered a shriek,
rose quickly, and half threw herself in the
young man's arms.

'^ A snake — a viper —an adder," she cried,
as, raising its head and uttering a low hiss,

a reptile some two feet or so long glided
from beneath the tree and disappeared
amidst the rustling ferns.

Sir Mark Leslie, a rather handsome, 
young man, with somewhat
effeminate features, showily dressed in
russet velvet, with a short stiff frill around
his neck, started back a step, and clapping
his hand on his sword half di-ew it from its
sheath; but, as a hearty, hoarse roar of
laughter fell upon his ear, he flushed angrily,
and thrust it back to turn upon the man
who had dared to laugh at him, while the
reptile made its way into a shallow rabbit-burrow
in the steep overhanging bank. For
the rugged little path, ill-made with dark-heed,
furnace cinder, ran here deep down
between two water-worn banks that looked
as if the earth had cracked asunder, leaving
twin sides mottled with rugged stone
and yellow sanders, upon whose shelving
slopes ferns and brambles luxuriated, and
c2

trees flourished with roots half-aerial, half-buried
in the soil. The sea-breeze might
be sweeping the hills above, but down here
there would be hardly a breath of air,
while Nature's train held revel far and near.
Freshly-turned sandy earth showed where
the rabbits burrowed, high up in the soft
bank the mandarins had a colony, while
night and morn the woodland was musical
with the notes of blackbird and thrush,
though the concert Gil Carr had listened to
a month before was more subdued, and
the nightingale kept his sweet lays till
another year.

Just beyond where the little party had
halted, the high bank displayed another
rift, through which a faint track ran at
right angles to the one they had pursued,
apparently deep through the overhanging
wood, for the way was darkened by the
trees to a dim green-hued twilight, dashed
and splashed and streaked with silver sunshine,

which played like dazzling cobwebs
amidst the sprays and twigs of hazel, dogwood,
and hornbeam, or lay in glittering
patches upon the clover-leaved woodsorrel,
which carpeted the soil with velvet-green.

It was from the corner of the bank which
formed this side-track that the hoarse
laughter came, and, turning sharply. Sir
Mark gazed fiercely upon a rugged-looking
mahogany-faced man, who seemed to have
faced storm and sunshine where these slaves
of Nature work their worst. His scanty
hair was grizzled, his beard rusty, half-grey,
and unkempt ; his hands were knotted
and gnarled, and, saving his eyes, everything
about him betokened wear and tear.
They alone flashed, and brightly, from beneath
his shaggy brows, as, leaning against
the corner, he stood with crossed legs, one
hand holding a little thick-stemmed, very
small-bowled clay pipe, which he leisurely

smoked, resting his elbow the while in his
right hand.

*who are you? how dare you look at
me like that, you dog?" cried the young
man imperiously.

'^ Who am I, my jack-a-dandy ?" said the
other, taking his pipe from his lips and
emitting a thin fine thread of smoke.
^^ That's no concern of thine. Hey, halloa
there ! Abel Churr, ahoy ! "

A responsive shout came from out of the
wood, and a thin, bent, cunning-looking
man, with closely set, uneasy eyes, came
quickly from amidst the hazels, which he
parted with his hands, as he advanced.

'^ Here's what you are seeking, lad. You
are just in time. A brave girt fellow for
you."

'' Where, where, Mas' Wat?"

^' He's just gone up yon bank into the bit
of a coney-hole ; and our gay St. George

there was whipping out his skewer to poor
the dragon, and save Sir Thomas's fair
daughter from his fangs, when I laughed,
and sent the steel back into his sheath."

^'Let me pass you," said the new-comer
eagerly, as stick in hand, and with a rabbit-skin
wallet slung from his shoulder beneath
his arm, he hastily came out into the lane,
and, saluting the portly baronet and the
lady, began to climb the bank.

Sir Mark scowled at the smoker with a
look full of resentment, but the latter replaced
his pipe and gazed full at him with
so keen and unblushing a stare that the
young courtier was disconcerted.

^' Coarse boor ! " he muttered, turning away
with a contemptuous shrug.

'jack-a-dandy!" said the smoker to
himself. Then aloud, ''A fine day, Mas'
Beckley. Save your worship, I beg pardon;
it's Sir Thomas, now, is it not ?"

'eyes, Master Wat Kilby, it is," said the

baronet, stiffly; and he coughed aloud, and
gave the large cane he carried a thump on
the ground as he turned to watch the proceedings
of the new comer.

The lank rugged man took a step or two
forward as well, to the great disgust of Sir
Mark, who had held out his arm to the
lady, to receive both her hands, as with an
extensive display of alarm she stood shrinking
away, while the thin, eager man went
up the bank, pushing the branches and
ferns aside with his stick, peering before
him the while.

There was something eminently foxy or
weasel-like in his sharp, quick movements,
giving him the aspect of one much accustomed
to dealing with animal life as a
trapper ; and as he went on forcing his way
through the tangled growth his actions
formed sufficient attraction to cause all present
to watch him intently.

^^ I don't think he came out of yon hole,

Mas' Churr," said the big man, emitting
another pufF of smoke, as if the weed he
burned were precious. ^^ Poor him with
your stick."

^' Do you say it was a nectar, Mas'
Kilby?" said the man in a harsh, husky
voice ; ^^ or was it only a snake ? "

^^ An adder, Mas' Churr, and the bravest
and biggest I've seen this year. That's the
spot up yonder. By all the saints, I'd like
to see him tackle one o' the girt fellows I've
known out in the Indian Isles, long as a
ship and big round as our mast."

'^ Travellers' snakes," said Sir Mark, contemptuously.


'^ Yes, my gay spark," said the old fellow,
with his eyes lighting up and flashing; '^ or
one of the great poisonous adders out in the
West, with rattles in their tails, from whose
bite a man dies in an hour."

^^ Pish ! " ejaculated the young man ; and
then smiling encouragement to his companion,

who was not in the least alarmed, he
watched the thin man as he crept up to the
rabbit-burrow, peered in, and then laid down
his stick.

'^ There's rats at times in these holes," he
said, sand they'll get hold of your hands
and bite rare sharp''

Going down upon his knees, he pressed
back a few fronds of bracken, bent forward,
thrust in his right hand, seized the little
serpent by the tail, and drew it rapidly
through his left hand, which closed round
the creature's neck, then after stooping to
raise his stick he brought the reptile down the
bank, writhing and twining about his wrist.

'^ Don't — pray don't let him come near
me ! " cried the lady excitedly ; and she
clung to the young man's arm.

fear not," said the latter, with an encouraging
smile, one which seemed to give
her confidence, for she sighed, cast down
her eyes, and then stood firm, as the adder-hunter

took a knife from his pocket, and
with a sly smile opened the gaping jaws,
and showed the lookers-on the little keen
poison-fangs lying flat down backwards on
the roof of the viper's mouth, till he raised
them up, ending by jerking them both outwith
the knife-point, and placing the reptile
in his wallet.

^^ You do something with them, Churr, do
you not ? " said Sir Thomas, for his guests'
behoof, for he knew by heart the whole of
Abel Churr's career.

^^ Yes, worshipful sir," said Churr, humbly:
^^the people come from far and near to get
nectar's fat from me. It cures all kinds of
ills in the skin, and heals the worst of
cuts."

^' I wonder whether it would heal broken
hearts," said the young man in a whisper,
as his eyes met those of Mistress Anne, who
cast hers down and blushed.

'' That will do, Abel Churr, that will do,"

said Sir Thomas, importantly; and the
adder-hunter pulled the front of his hair
humbly and slunk away ; the big, grizzled
man sat himself down on a ledge of the
bank, pulled out flint and steel, and proceeded
to fill and light his pipe ; and, rested
by the incident they had witnessed, the
little party proceeded on their journey along
the rugged lane.

^* Now, frankly. Sir Thomas," said the
young man, '^ how much farther is it ? "

'^ Not five hundred yards. Sir Mark.
There, you can see the furnace-smoke over
yon clump of beeches, and just to the left,
there — that light patch — that's Roehurst
Pool."

And pray what has Roehurst Pool to do
with Master Jeremiah Cobbe, may I ask ? "

'' To do with him. Sir Mark ? Why, it is
a great piece of dammed-up water that sets
his wheels in motion to make the tilt-hammers
beat his iron, grind his charcoal,

and blow his furnaces when he casts cannon.
Oh, it has everything to do with him, Sir
Mark."

*^ Then he really has extensive works
here ? "

^^ Not so very large; not so very small;
but he has many men at work for him
getting the iron out of the hills, cutting
down wood, making charcoal, and tending
his furnaces. He is a busy man, Sir
Mark."

*' Yes ? '' said the visitor inquiringly ;
'^ and what does he do with his guns and
powder when he makes them ? "

^^ I cannot say," replied the baronet;
^' only that they are shipped away, and go
down the little river here out to sea in the
same ship that brings him sulphur from
Sicily and Chinese salt from the far East.
That was one of the captain's men."

'' What captain ? What men ? "

'^ That tall, stout fellow we talked with —

Wat Kilby— he is the captain's head man —
Captain Carr — Culverin Carr they call him
here."

'^ A fine, handsome, corsair-like fellow,
with the look of a Spaniard and the daring
of a hero ? " said the visitor mockingly.

'^ Yes' said the baronet quietly; ^^you
have just described him. Sir Mark. His
father, they say, went with Sir Walter
Raleigh on his ill-fated expedition. The
son was in the same ship, and when old
Captain Carr died he left his son to the care
of his crew."

^'And they made the youth their captain,"
said Mistress Anne, with heightened colour.

^^ Yes," said Sir Thomas, ^'and he has
been their captain ever since."

^' But," said Sir Mark curiously, 'what
are they — buccaneers — pirates ? "

'heaven knows," said Sir Thomas, giving
a glance round. " There are matters. Sir
Mark," he continued nervously, " that it is

not always wise to discuss in a place where
the very trees have ears."

Absurd ! " cried Sir Mark. '' Here, in
his Majesty's dominions, all men should be
able to speak freely, and you excite my
curiosity, Sir Thomas. Please to bear in
mind that I am his Highness' s representatives''
he continued stiffly, '^ sent here upon
a special massage. Reports have reached
the Court of a reckless buccaneering party,
of the refuse and dregs of Raleigh's freebooters,
haunting the south coast; but I
knew not that it was here in Sussex."

'^ For heaven's sake, Sir Mark," whispered
the baronet, mopping his face, ^* be
advised and say no more. The place here
is haunted by them, and they do what
pleases them best. I am a justice. Sir Mark,
but my authority is set at naught. You
heard that man Kilby, how wanting in
reverence he was ? He is a sample of the
rest, and I pray nightly when their ship

sails from here that she may never return
again."

'' A noble Christian-like feeling," cried Sir
Mark. '' But, tut, tut. Sir Thomas, this
must not be. Rouse up, man. These knaves
must be brought to book if they don't behave.
Have no fear, sir ; a word from me
to the King, and his Majesty's wisdom
would be brought to bear on the need of
sweeping this place clear of such dregs."

Sir Thomas was gazing uneasily around,
while Mistress Anne seemed to cast off her
mincing ways, and her eyes flashed eagerly
as she drank in the young courtier's
words.

I know his Highness means well to all
his subjects. Sir Mark," said the baronet,
nervously. '' I thank him for conferring
upon me my title, and he has no more loyal
subject in these parts ; but pray. Sir Mark,
do not be too eager to report all you see.
We are very lonely here, and far from cities

and their ways. There is no man in these
parts, sir, who is not influenced by — by "

^^ Captain Culverin?"

^' Hush — hush, pray, Sir Mark," whispered
the baronet, and then to himself,
Thank heaven we are here."

'sand is this the place ?" said Sir Mark,
standing pointing his moustache, as they
emerged from the path upon the edge of a
fine spreading sheet of water, embowered in
noble woods and half covered with aquatic
vegetation. In various parts clusters of
water-fowl sat lightly on the glistening surface
; mother ducks sailed in safety with
their downy broods in and out of the reedy
water-lanes ; coots and gallinules jerked
themselves along the surface, while high in
air a colony of black-headed gulls wheeled
over the reeds, their breeding-place and
sanctuary, safe from harm. Here and there
along the edges, where the water was shallow,
gaunt grey herons stood knee-deep, making,

VOL. I. D

from time to time, a dart with their javelin-bills;
and so clear, so mirror like, was the
expanse, that the noble forest-trees upon the
other side were reflected plainly in the
depths.

At the lower end stood a quaint, gable-ended
house, and away to the right, where
the waters were gathered together and
rushed over a weir, were several long
wooden buildings, with three or four
roughly built of the sandstone of the district,
two having massive chimneys, from
which wreaths of pale blue smoke ascended
into the soft summer air.

It was a lovely spot, and seemed to bethe
abode of peace and plenty, more than
one where dire engines of warfare were
fashioned at the furnace-mouth, and that
black thunder sand, whose flash means
death and destruction, was mixed by begrimed
men from ingredients that left alone
were innocent and secure. For the gable-ended

house was white with clustering
roses ; the bright lattice windows sparkled in
the sunshine ; and the water, as it ran over
the weir, made silver sounds that lulled the
senses, as they whispered music to the ear.

Stretching far along the edge of the great
pool there was an extensive well-kept garden,
rich with flowers, pleasant with its
green lawn, and made glorious now with
its abundant trees ; while still further along
the Pool, nestling in a sheltered nook, shaded
by tall trees and a mighty bank of sandstone
rock, a patch of hops were rapidly
nearing the tops of their poles as if climbing
to get a peep at the field where the barley
was springing rank and green, bridegroom
and bride who should in the glowing October
month be wedded well and breed strong
ale.

^^A very Paradise," continued Sir Mark
eagerly ; '^ and look, Sir Thomas, over
d2

yonder. Who is the maiden? Look! Out
there!"

Sir Thomas glanced nervously at his
daughter, whose cheeks were very red, and
whose eyes flashed no longer a soft and
timid light.

^^ It is the founder's daughter. Sir Mark.
Sweet Mace they call her here," and he
wiped his forehead and gave his feather-padded
breeches another hitch as he caught
his daughter's eyes once more.

*^ Sweet Mace 1" said the King's messenger,
inquiringly. ^' Mace — nutmeg —
spice ! "

'' Nay, Sir Mark, it was her father's fancy,
so they say. Mace or meadow-sweet, it is
the same : the creamy-scented blossom that
grows beside the Pool."

*' A forest fairy ! " cried the young man,
eagerly ; '^ and the man, Sir Thomas ? "

^' Hush, pray. Sir Mark," whispered the
baronet ; " the water carries sound."

Who is it, sir, I say ? " cried the
visitor, with an imperious stamp, as the
object of his question turned his head.

'sit's he, himself, Sir Mark," groaned the
wretched man, glancing helplessly at the
speaker ; '' the man of whom we spake."

' What ! Jeremiah Cobbe ? "

^^ No ; Captain Carr."

CHAPTER III.

HOW JEREMIAH COBBE DAMNED HIS MAJESTY
KING JAMES THE FIRST.

Sir Mark Leslie was too intent upon the
scene before him, or he would have seen
the face of Mistress Anne undergo a complete
change. The soft simpering look of
girlish meekness she had assumed had passed
away, and, as her gaze lit on Culverin Carra
light seemed to flash from her eyes — a
bright beam of light, which darkened as she
glanced at his companion in the boat to an
angry glare. If ever face spoke love to one
and changed on the instant to jealous hate,
it was the countenance of Anne Beckley as
she gazed.

It all passed away directly, as she listened
eagerly to Sir Mark.

'^ Why, she's fishing," he cried. '^ A fair
Diana, huntress of the lake. Mistress Anne,
look at her, is she not beautiful ? "

'' Tastes differ. Sir Mark," said the lady,
with a smile that hid her annoyance. ^^ I
have seen Mace Cobbe so often that I
scarcely heed her looks."

'' But your eyes, mistress, never lit on a
bonnier face than that of Sweet Mace."

Sir Mark and Mistress Anne started with
annoyance, to become aware of the fact that
the grizzly old sailor, Kilby, had followed
them, and was standing with his back against
a tree, his pipe still between his lips.

'' My good fellow, a little respect would
not be out of place when you address a
lady," said Sir Mark sharply, as he drew
Mistress Anne's arm through his, and once
more tried to look the old man down ; but

failing completely, he turned to gaze at the
Pool, forgetting his annoyance in the chase
before him.

For, standing up with one foot resting on
the side of a little boat, which was propelled
by the bronzed dark man who held the oars,
head thrown back, lips slightly parted, and
her soul seeming to animate her shapely
face, was a young girl about eighteen,
plainly clad in homely stuff; but with
snowy lawn kerchief and cuffs, and a cap of
the same confining her rich brown hair, she
seemed to need no ornament or gay attire
to make her brighter than she was, flushed
with excitement and in the springtide of her
youth. Her face was burned slightly by the
sun, which seemed to heighten the rich red
in her cheek, and, as she came nearer to
where he stood, the stranger's eyes flashed
as he marked lier white forehead, well-cut
nose, and trembling nostrils, which expanded

as their owner's breath came more quickly,
while her lips parted more and more, showing
her regular teeth.

^^ Steady, steady," cried her companion,
as the girl raised her arm a little more, to
gain greater power over the long elastic pole
which did duty for a rod, now bending and
quivering, as the great fish she had hooked
darted here and there, and at times violently
jerked the end. For there was no running
line, the governor of the little skiff sending
it here and there, as the fish tore through the
water, even towing it at times as it made
some furious dash.

The skiff came nearer and nearer, for the
great pike now darted right towards the
shore, running onward towards where the
group were standing, and then, finding the
water shallow, leaping bodily out, to fall
back with a tremendous splash, for it was a
monster of its kind. Then with another rush
it made straight for the middle, where there

were cool and shady depths beneath the
water-lilies, amidst whose stout stems the
strong line might be tangled and freedom
found. But the effort was vain : with a
quick turn of the oars the rower spun the
skiff round, and urged it along, lessening
the stress upon the young girl's wrists, and,
evidently well accustomed to the management
of a boat, hastening or slackening its
speed by the guidance of the fishing-pole —
whether it was heavily or lightly bent.

The chase led the occupants of the boat
far away, but Sir Mark did not stir. With
one hand resting on the hilt of his sword,
the other twisting the points of his moustache,
he stood gazing after the boat with a red
spot burning in either cheek. He seemed
to have forgotten the existence of Mistress
Anne, and started when she spoke.

^^You seem to admire our rustic beauty,
Sir Mark," she said lightly, but with an uneasy
look.

^^ She is divines cried. ^' I mean, as a
picture," he added hastily. ^' The surroundings
are so good And what a mighty luce
she has hooked."

^' There are monsters in this pool," said
Sir Thomas, mildly, for his ordinary pomposity
disappeared in the prese nef his distinguished
guest. '' There have been great
laces here any time these two hundred years,
and even before, when this was one of the
fish-stews of the monks of Roehurst. Shall
we go on. Sir Mark ? "

'^ Ye-es," said the young man, with a slight
hesitancy that did not escape the keen ears
of Mistress Anne, whom, after a farewell
glance at the distant boat, he tried to appease
by a show of attention, though all the time
his mind's eye was filled with the form of
Mace Cobbe, whose simple grace and youthful
beauty made Anne Beckley seem dowdy
and commonplace in mien.

As they went on along the edge of the
great Pool, where the forget-me-nots and
brooklime made blue the shallows, while the
roar of a furnace and the heavy throb of
hammers began to make themselves heard,
Anne Beckley stole a glance at the boat, saw
that they had been seen by the rower, and
turned at once eagerly to Sir Mark, upon
whose arm she leaned as they talked, till
they reached a little swing-bridge which
spanned the narrow stream of water that
rushed from the great Pool down a channel
formed between two walls of rough sandstone
blocks. Here the confined waters sparkled
and foamed as they swept on towards a great
water-wheel, which they slowly turned, the
drops falling glittering like diamonds from
the paddles aid slimy spokes. Just across
the bridge was the large garden, lush with
flowers, and surrounding the gabled house,
from whose door now appeared a squarely-built,

grey-haired man of fifty, to walk
slowly towards the bridge, as if to meet the
new comers.

^^ Good day to you. Sir Thomas; a fair
time. Mistress Anne," he said bluffly, as he
met his visitors. ^'' You are welcome to my
poor home."

'' Thank you, Cobbe," said Sir Thomas,
pompously, ^^but this is no visit. This noble
gentleman comes to you as an massage
from his Gracious Majesty King James, who
condescends to remember that there are
others in this part of his realm besides
myself."

^^Ha, ha, ha!" laughed Cobbe ; ^^his
Majesty has good cause to recollect you. Sir
Thomas, for you paid him a thousand pounds
for your rank."

^'I merely paid the customary fees, good
Master Cobbe," exclaimed Sir Thomas, growing
purple with annoyance.

^^ They couldn't be customary. Sir Thomas,

as the title is a new one ; but we will not
argue. Come in and take a glass of muscadine,
and some cakes of my daughter's make ;
Mistress Anne looks faint with heat; and
then we can discuss this courtly gentleman's
massage. Ha, ha, ha ! I guess what it
is. His Majesty is short of cash, and wants
another thousand pounds. What do you say,
Sir Thomas, shall I buy a baronetcy and become
your neighbour ? Ha, ha, ha ! Sir
Jeremiah Cobbe! What say you to that,
Mistress Anne ? "

'' This is no jesting matter, sir," exclaimed
Sir Mark, sharply. " Sir Thomas — Mistress
Anne — I must bid you adieu till evening.
I will not ask you to enter here with me now,
only thank you for your courtesy."

^* Shall I send a serving-man to escort you
back, Sir Mark?" said Sir Thomas, removing
his hat, and making the cock's plumes whisk,
to show the bluff Sussex yeoman how great
a man he was about to receive into his

house. For Jeremiah Cobbe seemed in nowise
abashed, but rather disposed to look
with amusement upon the airs and costume
of his visitor.

^* No, Sir Thomas, 1 shall find my way,"
replied the other ; and, respectfully saluting
Anne, who extended to him her hand as if
they were about to dance a saraband upon
the bridge, he escorted her and her father to
the other side, and Sir Thomas walked pompously
away.

'^ Now, Master Jeremiah Cobbe," said Sir
Mark, sharply, '^ if you will shew me into
the house we will talk together."

^' As long as you like, sir," was the reply ;
and leading the way, after giving his hat a
defiant cock on one side, Jeremiah Cobbe
ushered his visitor into a large, low-ceiled
room, panelled with oak, and whose lattice
windows were deeply embayed. The place
was plainly but well furnished, with open
fireplace and dogs, and large firelock of

Sussex iron, the latter bearing the founder's
name ; and the visitor raised his eyebrows a
little to find in place of the rough homeliness
of a rustic house a handsome carpet from
a Turkish loom spread over the centre of the
well-waxed and polished floor, a large Venetian
mirror at one end, Venice glasses and a
quaint timepiece on the great carved oak
sideboard; and even the straight-backed,
heavy oak chairs covered with brown Turkey
leather. Over the high mantel-piece was a
group of curious old arms, and in several
places well-kept weapons hung against the
panels, with curiosities from foreign lands,
one tall cabinet being full of Indian and
China ware.

Masculine all this ; but as Sir Mark's eye
glanced quickly round he saw several traces
of feminine occupation, for on a stand in one
corner was a great china bowl full of rose-leaves,
and in a vase a well-arranged nosegay
of simple, old-fashioned flowers, the

table it occupied being close beside a large
tambour-frame with some design in progress.
There was the odour of burnt tobacco in
the room, doing battle with the fragrance
from the garden, which floated in at the open
window, where roses nodded and scattered
their petals upon the broad oaken sill. There
was a chair there too, and a basket of freshly-gathered
currants shining like smooth rubies
in their nest of leaves, and in an instant
the visitor concluded that the deep bay
by the casement opening upon the rich, old-fashioned
garden, was the favourite seat of
the girl he had seen engaged in fishing as
they came along.

'^ Sit you down, sir," cried the bluff
yeoman heartily, and, opening a cupboard
in the wall, he took out a couple of
Venetian flasks, and some tall glasses of a
pale green veined with threads of opal hue,
placed them on the table, and with them a

VOL. I. E

leaden box, and a couple of thick-stemmed
pipes with tiny bowls.

'* Now, sir," he continued, *That's old
sherry sack, and that's metheglin of my
daughter's make. Here, Janet," he shouted,
'' bring a big jug of ale from the second
cask ; " and in due time a good-looking,
well-shaped girl bore in upon an old silver
salver a battered flagon of clear ale, whose
coolness was shown by the pearly dew
rapidly deposited on the bright silver
sides.

'' Your good health, and welcome, sir,"
said the yeoman, lifting the great silver
flagon, raising the lid with his thumb, and
taking a hearty draught. shah!" he
ejaculated, drawing a long breath, as he set
down the vessel. ^' I don't suppose you
would care to drink our common ale, my
own brewing, though, and strong. But you
do not drink, sir. Which shall it be ? " and

he stretched out his hand to push the flasks
towards his guest.

'^ Business first, Master Cobbe," said Sir
Mark haughtily, as, taking his sheathed
sword from where it hung, he rested it across
his knees ; ^^ I have somewhat to say."

^^ Will you smoke, then?" cried the sturdy
yeoman, reaching his hand to the little pipes,
and pushing the leaden box towards his
guest.

^' I never smoke, sir; I agree with his
Majesty that it is an evil, noxious, and
diabolical habit."

I do smoke, and I don't agree with his
Majesty," said Cobbe, gruffly, as he proceeded
to fill his pipe by means of a little
silver stopper, for a child's finger would
hardly have passed into the bowl.

*^ I must request, sir, that you will refrain
from smoking until I leave your house,"
said the visitor sternly.

Jeremiah Cobbe's face grew red with
e2

uSiTYOFtiUNOts

anger, but he smothered his annoyance, laid
down his pipe, took a fresh draught of ale,
let the lid fall with a clink, and threw himself
back in his chair.

^^ Go on then, sir," he cried. ^^ I shall be
glad to hear what business you have to settle
with me. If it is for half-a-dozen culverin

for his Majesty's army, or by the good

Peter, I have it, he has got to know about
my new howitzers, and he has sent to see.
Now, how the holy 'apostle did he get to
know about them ? "

'' My good fellow, have the kindness to
listen to me'' said Sir Mark.

'' Good fellow, eh ! '' cried Cobbe, flushing
again, and smiting the table with his fist.
^^ But there, go on, sir, go on; you are a
messenger to me from the King."

His Majesty'* said Sir Mark, leaning
back in his chair, and half-closing his eyes,
as he gazed imperiously at the other, " has
had it brought to his knowledge that you,

Jeremiah Cobb, of Roehurst, in the county
of Sussex "

Right," said the other nodding.

have for years past, and in divers

manners, carried on here a forge for cannon
castings."

I have, and of the best and toughest
iron ever smelted in the south. His Majesty
never heard of one of my pieces bursting."

That you also carry on some works
wherein, without leave or licence, you make
largely that dangerous and deadly material
known as gunpowder."

Dangerous, and deadly too, " chuckled
the blue yeoman, ''if it gets into foolish
hands. It's true enough, and my best dogwood
charcoal makes the strongest powder
to be had."

"A material which his Majesty holds in
utter abhorrence and detestation, ever since
his devilish and malignant enemies, aided
and abetted by Popish treasonable priests,

essayed to destroy the Houses of Parliament
and kill and slay his most sacred person."

No wonder, sir," chuckled Cobbe.
Enough to make any man abhor powder.
But hark ye, one barrel of mine would have
been enough to shake the place about their
ears."

That this cannon and this powder of
your manufacture you have for years past
regularly and by your own design sold, furnished,
and supplied to his sacred Majesty's
enemies in various parts of the world. These
treasonable practices he now woes of, at least
by report, and I am his messenger to you,
sir, to know if they are true. What have
you to say ? "

What have I to say, boy ! " cried the
cannon founder, flushing angrily as he
leaned forward, set his elbows on the table,
and gazed full at his visitor. '' What have I
to say? Nothing at all. I do make cannons,
and I do make powder, the best I can, and I

sell them to those who'll buy. I offered to
supply his Majesty with guns of which he
might be proud, and some Jack-in-office
refused my offer, so I sell them where 1
will''

To his Majesty's enemies ? "

Hang his enemies; I know not who gets
them when they are shipped away and I am
paid."

"You avow then, boldly, that you do
supply these munitions of warfare to other
than the King's liege subjects ? "

Avow, man, yes. I sell to who will give
me a good price ; and look here, my gaily-feathered
young Tom chick, this is not
London city, and my house is not the Court.
Don't speak to me as if I were one of your
servants and hangers-on."

"You are insolent, sir," cried Sir Mark
angrily. " If I report all this and your
treasonable words, the result may be a body
of his Majesty's soldiers despatched to raze

your works to the ground, and march you
back to London to take your trial."

'' Let them come," cried the founder, now
giving the fury he had pent up its full vent ;
"let them come, and I'll give them such a
reception as will make your Powder Plot
seem a trifle. Why, do you know, my velvet
and silken popinjay, that we have good men
and true down here, enough to tickle the
ears of as many of your fellows as you like
to send."

Silence, sir ! " cried Sir Mark ; "do you
dare to set at naught the King's "

Damn the King ! " cried the founder
furiously, ^ ^ damn the King for a porridge-eating,
witch-hunting old fool !"

Insolent dog," cried Sir Mark.

What ! " retorted the founder, " do you
pull your blade on me ? Then you shall see
that we have steel as well."

Sir Mark had risen and drawn his sword,
evidently with some mad idea that it was

his duty to arrest this utterer of treason on
the spot ; but, with an activity of which he
might not have been believed capable, Jeremiah
Cobbe sprang to the side of the room,
snatched a sword from the wall, drew, and
crossed that of the young courtier. There
was a harsh grating, a few quick thrusts and
parries, as the open window was slightly
darkened, and Sir Mark uttered a sharp
cry, for his adversary's sword passed like
lightning through his arm, and he staggered
back, as an upbraiding voice exclaimed —
^'Oh, father, father, what have you done?"

CHAPTER IV.

HOW SIR MARK STAYED AT THE PARK HOUSE, AND

JEREMIAH COBBE DELIVERED A HOMILY ON

ANGLING.

It was Mace's voice, as she ran into the
room, pale with horror when she saw the red
blood darken the russet velvet of the young
man's sleeve.

^^Done!" cried Cobbe, ^^What do I
always do, my girl? Acted like the passionate
old fool I am. Poor boy ! " he
ejaculated, as the sword dropped from Sir
Mark's hand, and white as Mace's self the
King's messenger sank fainting on his adversary's
arm, to be lowered gently to the
floor. ^^God knows, child, I'd give five

hundred pounds to undo it all. He
angered me, and drew, and the sight of the
naked steel made the blood come into my
eyes. Poor boy — poor boy ! A brave
youth, though he fretted and strutted and
bullied me so. That's better. Hi, Janet,
some cold water. Stop, child, don't rip his
fine jacket or he'll break his heart. My
faith on it, he'll think more of the holes in
his velvet than in his skin., Steady ! hold
him up a little, and I'll strip off his fine coat.
That's it ; now, a little more ; never mind
the drop of blood, it won't kill him''

I know, father," said Mace, '' but put
away those swords ; " and she held up the
wounded man's head as her father cleverly
removed the velvet doublet and turned up
the fine white linen shirt, whose sleeve was
stained with blood. The wound could
now be seen, or rather wounds — two narrow
clean cuts on either side of the fleshy part

of the arm, from which the blood pretty
freely welled.

'^ Now lay his head down again, my
child. No : better not. Here's Janet.
Sake's girl ! Don't stand staring. Put the
basin here. Some strips of linen. That's
right, child," he continued, as Mace snatched
off her white kerchief and tore it up.

^' It weighs full thirty pounds," cried a
hearty voice in the entry. ^'Hey, hallo,
what's wrong ? A wounded man ? "

^^ Ay ! " cried the founder. ^' Quick, Gil,
you are a good chirurgeon ; " and the newcomer
— to wit. Mace's companion on the
Pool — strode in, went down on one knee,
and without a word dipped a portion of the
linen in the cold water, removed the blood,
and with the skill of an adept made a
couple of pads, and cleverly bound up the
wound.

'^ Give him a little of the strong waters,"

he cried, and the founder hurriedly fetched a
flask and held a glass to the wounded man's
lips before the new comer said briefly''
How was it ? "

^ ^ Oh, he angered and drew on me, and
we had a few passes," cried the founder.
'^ My own fault, too."

*sit is a mere nothing," said the other.
^'Why Mace, my child, don't look so
white. He is a soldier evidently, and he'll
bear it like a man."

^^ Am I white, Gil ? " said the girl, looking
up and smiling sadly, as she thought of how
her life seemed cast among warlike weapons
and their works. '^ I am not frightened,
only troubled. Father, dear, this is so sad."

'' It is, it is, my child. I'd have given
half I have sooner than it should have happened.
Hush, he's coming to."

For just then the injured man sighed,
opened his eyes wonderingly, gazed upwards

to see who supported him, and lowered his
lids again, saying softly —

The face of an angel : is this Heaven ? "

"Oh, no," cried the amateur surgeon,
frowning slightly as he saw Mace colour,
"and if you were here sometimes, when
friend Cobbe is casting cannon, you'd think
it was the other place. Come, sir, let me
help you up. It is a mere flesh wound, and
will only smart."

Thank you, I can rise," said Sir Mark,
reddening, as he made an effort and rose
without assistance ; but the room seemed to
swim round, and he staggered and would
have fallen, had not his surgeon caught him
by the uninjured arm, and helped him to a
seat, letting him gently down into a half-reclining
position.

As he did so the eyes of the two young
men met, and Gilbert Carr, as he gazed into
those of his patient, felt a strange sense of

mistrust pass over him like a foreboding of
coming trouble ; while on the other side, as
the smooth young courtier looked into the
bright, clear grey eyes, and scanned the
dark, bronzed visage bending over him, he
felt that they two would be enemies for a
woman's sake.

"That's it— that's better," said Gilbert
Carr, quietly. '' You need have no fear for
the consequences, sir. It is a clean cut, and
will soon heal in our pure, fresh air."

'^I thank you," said Sir Mark, rather
stiffly ; ^^ I do not fear. Madam, I grieve to
have caused you this trouble," he continued,
addressing Mace, who stood close by.

Nay, sir ; pray do not say that. It is
we who are grieved — my father."

"Ay, she's right," said Cobbe, advancing.
My brave lad, I feel ashamed to face you
after such a stroke."

** Ashamed ! " said Sir Mark, with a quiet
glance at Mace; and then, seeing his advantage,

he said, smiling as he held out his
uninjured hand, ^' Never be ashamed, sir, of
so gallant a handling of your sword. They
tell me in London I can fence, and that
enemies who have fought make the best of
friends'*

You are a brave true gentleman, sir,"
cried the founder, wringing the outstretched
hand ; '' and I humbly ask your forgiveness
for my choler. I was hot and angry. There,
God bless the King ; and I beg his Majesty's
pardon for what I said."

^^ It is granted," said Sir Mark, smiling
faintly, ^'for he will never know."

snow let me say a word," said Gil, who
had been uneasily looking on. '' Fever may
come on if he is excited. Take my advice,
sir, lie back and go to sleep. Mace — no, here
is Janet— fetch a pillow for this gentleman."

The girl ran out, and returned bearing
one of snowy hue, which Gil adjusted beneath
the wounded man's head.

Now, sir, sleep for awhile, and you will
be refreshed. Your arm is all right. I have
dressed many a sword-cut in my time."

^^ Thanks," said Sir Mark, faintly; 'but
some one will stay with me in the room ? "

He glanced at Mace.

^^ Of course," said the founder. ^* Mace,
my child."

'^ Yes," said Gil, quietly, ^^ go away. Mace;
Janet will stay and watch by this gentleman's
side."

Mace glanced at him wonderingly, and
Janet coloured with pleasure as, frowning
slightly. Sir Mark closed his eyes, and the
girl half drew the blind, while, headed by
the founder, after removing all traces of the
conflict, Gilbert Carr and Mace went softly
out, and closed the door.

^' Why do you look at me like that?" said
Mace, as they stood alone. 'gil, do you
doubt me ? "

'* Doubt you?" he said softly as he bent

VOL. I. F

down and kissed her white forehead. ^' No,
I could not, for you are not as other women
are. I did not wish you, though, to be
'tendant to this spark from the Court, for
such he seems to be. Nay, Mace, I've no
jealousy in me. But there is your pike,"
he added, pointing to the fish, a great fellow
four feet long, which lay on the red bricks
at their feet. '' Here is your father, and
he'll tell us how the quarrel rose."

'' Quarrel ! it was not worth calling a
quarrel," cried the founder, shortly. '' It
seems that some meddlesome fool has been
telling them in London of my works, and
this gentleman has been sent down to inspect
the place. He vexed me, and said something
about the King, which made me rap
out an oath. He drew : I drew."

'sand our visitor went down," said Gil
Carr, smiling. " Well, Master Cobbe, there's
not much harm done."

But I shall have to send over to the

Moat, Gil, and tell Sir Thomas; he was here
a piece back."

'nay," said Gil, sill news flies apace,
there is no need to hasten it. Leave it to
the gentleman himself."

^' Perhaps you are right," returned the
founder. '^ Of course he will not be fit to
leave for a day or two. Mace, child, get
the south chamber ready for our guest : let's
try and make up for the ill that we have
done."

Gilbert Carr half closed his eyes and stood
silent till Mace left the open hall, where they
were standing, to prepare the chamber for
the wounded man, when he replied to the
founder's remark : —

It depends so upon the man."

^^Eh? How?"

*^ Well, if you had a scratch or pin-thrust
like that you would go and see to the grinding
of your last batch of powder. If I had

it, I should "

F 2

'* W ell : " said the founder.

*^ I should tie it up — tightly," replied Gil,
drily. * ' Your guest there will make a month's
illness of it for the sake of being petted by the
women and nursed."

^* That's a pretty jealous kind of remark,
Captain Gil," said the founder sharply. '^ I
noticed how you took me up short when I
bade Mace stop in the room with the poor
young man. Come down here, I want to
talk to you. We may as well say it now as
at any other time. Let's walk down to the
empty furnace. No one will heed us there."

^* With all my heart," said Gil, and, with a
cloud gathering on his brow, he walked after
the founder, along by the side of the rushing
water, past the mill-wheel, and down to a
good-sized stone building, beside which was
a great pile of charcoal.

*now, Gil Carr," said the founder, seating
himself on the ledge of an open window, ^'I'm
not going to quarrel."

*that you are not," said the other, smiling
frankly ; ^^ and if you did you are not going
to fight, for I won't draw. One wounded
man is enough for one day."

^^ Tut — tut — yes," cried the founder. ^^ But
now look here, Captain Gil "

^' Suppose we drop the captain, and let it
be plain Gil again, as it has been these
many years. Master Cobbe, we are very old
friends."

'' Yes, yes, of course, Gil, so we are," said
the founder, looking annoyed and puzzled.
** But now, look here, tell me why did you
interfere when I was going to tell my child
to sit in the room with that injured gentleman.
Come now, be frank."

^' I will," said Gil, quietly. *' It was because
I did not think it seemly for her to stay
and tend a man whose eyes had just openly
bespoken admiration, and I thought that
Janet would do as well."

^' Like your insolence," cried the choleric
old man.

** Gently, Master Cobbe," said the other
smiling; ^^too much powder again."

*^ Confound it, yes," he cried, calming
down, but only to grow wroth the next
moment, as he saw the smile upon his companion's
face. " You are laughing at me,
Gil ; and now, hark ye here, I think it is quite
time we came to a proper understanding."

About Mace?" said Gil, quietly.

^^ Yes, about my child," said the founder.

^^I think so, too," said Gil, calmly, but
with the bronze hue of his cheek becoming a
little more deeply tinted.

*^ Oh ! you do," said the founder, with a
peculiar hesitancy, now it had come to the
point, and an aspect of being slightly in awe
of the other and his calm, firm way — the
peculiar quiet assertion of one born to and
accustomed to command.

^' I do," said Gil, gazing bim full in the
eyes ; ^^ and I am glad that you have opened
a subject I wanted to discuss."

^^ Then it is soon done," said the founder ;
** and look here, Gil, my dear lad, after the
talk is over, we go back to our old positions
as good friends, and it is to be as if we had
never spoken."

'' Have no fear," said Gil, smiling; ^^ as I
told you, we shall not quarrel."

*^ Well, then, look here," said the founder,
making a plunge at once into the subject.
^' Gil Carr, you are growing too intimate
with my child."

'' Indeed ! " said Gil, raising his eyebrows.
^^ Let me see. Master Cobbe : it is sixteen
years since Wat Kilby brought me, a delicate
boy of twelve, low from an attack
of a fever caught in the Western Isles, and
you and your good wife nursed me into
strength''

^^Yes, yes, quite true," said the founder.

hastily. ^^Poor Rachel! poor Rachel!" he
muttered, and his face clouded.

'^ If ever woman was meet for the kingdom
of heaven when she died it was Mace's
mother — my second mother ! " said Gil,
gravely.

*^ Amen to that ! " said the founder.
^^ Thank you, Gil — thank you — God bless
you for those words," he continued, with
his voice trembling ; and he seized and
wrung the young man's hand, which warmly
pressed his in return.

'^ Mace was a child of four then. Master
Cobbe," said Gil, ^^ and we have been like
brother and sister ever since."

'' Yes, yes, quite true,'^ said the founder.

'^ Then why do you say that I am growing
too intimate with your child?"

'* Because," said the founder, laying his
hand upon the young man's arm, ^^you are
growing now less like brother and sister, and
it is time it was stopped."

^^Why?'^ said Gil, gravely.

*' Because, Gil Carr, the intimacy of two
people like you might lead to feelings that
end in marriage, and that could never be."

*^ I do not see why not," said Gil, quietly.

*^ No," said the founder, '^ but I do ! And
now listen. I like you, Gil, and I'm going
to give you a bit of advice, both about this
matter and your ship, for we are old friends,
and I should not like you and yours to come
to harm."

'^ Friends in home matters, but in business
you always drove the hardest bargains
with me that you could ; and now you talk
of locking Mace away."

'' Friends enough, all the same, my lad ;
and as to locking up my daughter from you,
as you term it, if I in the future bid her
always keep her room when you are home
from sea and come up here, shall I not do
right ? Would you have me bring her out
to listen to the gallant words of every buccaneering

captain who comes to my place,
swaggering and swearing and drinking, till
he wants a man on each side to see him safe
away, lest he get into the mill-race or the
dam. Nay, Captain Gil Carr — Culverin
Carr, if you like I — times are altered now,
for Mace is a woman grown, and a girl no
longer. So in the future I'll trade with you
and be the best of friends, but there we'll
stop."

'snow, Master Cobbe," said Gil, with a
quiet, grave smile, ^' when did you see me
overcome by strong waters, or swaggering,
or using oaths ? Fie ! you make me worse
than I am."

Jeremiah Cobbe chuckled, and laid his
finger good hum surely upon the young
man's breast.

It will not do, Gil lad, so we need not
argue. You are as good as most men ; but
see here, I have Mace's future welfare to
provide for, and, above all, her happiness.

I've been weak and neglectful, perhaps, sofar,
but now I'm going to be hard as the
iron in those guns. There's no harm done
as yet, so let us stop in time, for we both
wish the poor girl to be happy''

^^ No harm?" said Gil.

^^ No : so we'll stop at once. Think you
I'm going to let a man like you fool the girl
with fine words ? You journey here, and
you journey there, and you see saucy Frenchwomen,
bright-eyed Spaniards, and dark-haired
Portingallo dames, and those of Italy,
and no one knows where beside. Court
them, my lad, and marry as many of them
as you like. May be you have now a wife
in every port, but you must e'en leave my
little white moth alone. Let her flitter and
flutter about and be satisfied with the soft
light of the moon and stars; I don't want
her pretty wings singed in the fierce light of
a thoughtless man's love."

'' Amen ! " said Gil, softly.

'tamen, eh? Why, Gil, you are a fine
fellow to give forth such a churchman's word
as that so glibly and so pat. Master Pease-good
would look fierce enough if he heard
such an ungodly follower of Belial as you
beginning to preach."

'' In the name of all that's strange, Master
Cobbe, what does this mean?" exclaimed
Gil. ^' I have been free of your house all
these years, and now this sudden change has
come over you, and you treat me thus scurvily.
In the name of all the saints, speak
out. What have I done?"

^^ Been hooked by Father Bonchurch,
seemingly, and gone over to see the Scarlet
Lady on the Seven Hills, to hear you swearing
by the saints."

^^It is enough to make a man swear by
anything, Master Cobbe, to meet with such
treatment. Come, speak out; how have I
affronted you?"

"Well, if you will know, Master Gil, I

looked out across the Pool some little time
back, and I saw a certain young man out
there in my boat fishing. All at once he
thrust his hand into a bucket of water, and
seized a feckless gudgeon, which he deftly
hooked, and then threw overboard for the
pike to seize. And, as I looked, I saw a
little hand taken and kissed, and I knew
then that one Captain Culverin had hooked
a second gudgeon as well, and that he might
play with her for a time, as he watched her
helpless struggles in his hot hands, and then
he might throw her overboard too. Then
the scales fell from my eyes, and I saw that
I had been a fool — one who had been so
wrapped-up in his cannon-making that he
had forgotten to watch what went on in his
own house. Gilbert Carr, you have ceased
to be a brother to my child, and have made
hot love to her. Come, confess."

'' Confess ! '' cried Gil, with his face

lighting up ; ''I have nothing, sir, to confess.
If you wish me to avow that I dearly love
our little Mace, I do with all my soul ; and,
Grot giving me strength, I will never do
aught that shall make her shame that I love
her. Yes, Master Cobbe, love has grown
stronger year by year ; man's love — hot love
if you will, and she has been to me my one
hope — the hope that has kept me a better
man than I should have been. Come, be
not hard upon me, Master Cobbe. You
cannot mean that you disapprove of our
love?"

^' I do disapprove of your love ! " cried
the founder angrily ; " and I'll have no more
of such childish babble."

But Master Cobbe "

'* I'll hear no more, I say."

'' Nay, Master Cobbe, this is unreasonable."


*' Call it what you will ; I say I'll have no

more of it. You are not the man to make
my child happy, and now we understand
one another. Mind, I forbid it."

^^ You may forbid it, Master Cobbe," said
Gil quietly; ^^ but I tell you frankly I cannot
listen to your commands. Matters have gone
too far."

'^ But they shall not have gone too far'
cried the founder, flushing up, and stamping
his foot with rage, " I'll hear no more.
Look ye here. Captain Gil, you're in a
passion now, so let me see no more of you
for seven days. Then, perhaps, we can
meet and talk calmly. Meantime, go and
think."

As he said these words Jeremiah Cobbe,
the founder of Roehurst, went into his empty
furnace-house, and Gil Carr walked slowly
away to think of his dismissal — now, when
a man whom he already looked upon as an
enemy was in the place ; and the young

man's face darkened as imagination began
to be busy, filling his mind full of strange
fancies, strongly opposed to the words he
had spoken but a short time since to Mace
as they parted at the house.

CHAPTER V.

HOW THE FOUNDER SET A TRAP TO CATCH A
LOVER.

Nature seems to have ordained that the
stricken ones should seek solitude to find
solace for their wounds. The deer injured
by the shot of the hunter plunges into the
depths of the forest, and the human being
cut to the heart hides away from his kind to
brood and think and wait until time shall
soften the pain.

So it was now with Gil Carr, for his steps
led him slowly into the forest depths of the
old weald, where, coming at length, by
means of a cart-track, to an opening where
the woodman's axe had been at work and a

VOL. I. G

hollow blackened with dust and dotted with
curious little fungi, showed where the charcoal
burners had been busy, he seated himself
upon a stump, and began to think over
the past — of the days when a boy he had
been his father's companion on shipboard,
when he used to be shut down in the cabin
below water-line when some attack was to
be made upon a Spanish ship or fort in the
Carib sea ; of the love the stern, sun-browned,
grizzled man bore him, and how he had been
the rough sailors' plaything. Then of that
dreadful day when lying below half wandering
with fever, when the air that came
through the little cabin window seemed
burning hot, he had felt his head throb, and
listened to the noise of cannons, wondering
whether they were real or only the fancies
of his aching brain. Of how he had at last
with swimming head crawled from his berth
and painfully climbed on deck, where his
feet slid from under him, and he fell in a

pool of blood, after which he crawled to
pass, one after the other, half a score of
dead and wounded men, to where a group
was standing round one who lay upon the
deck, dark with the shades of approaching
death, and with his head supported by Wat
Kilby, who was crying like a child.

How plainly it all came back as he sat
there in the forest shades, with the glowing
sunbeams that flashed through the leaves
and burnished the silvery-green of the great
bracken fronds, seeming like the swords that
glittered under the tropic sky, and the
gleaming armour that the stout adventurers
wore when they made way for him to crawl
to his father's side.

That pale, stern face lit up — how well he
remembered it!— and one feeble hand was
raised to be laid upon his head, as with his
dying breath the smitten captain, one of
Elizabeth's adventurous spirits, who fought
g2

the Spaniards under the English flag, half
raised himself and cried —

"Brave lads — God's will — this is your
captain now ! "

And then, as he flung himself wildly upon
his father's breast, there was a loud hurrah,
for the fighting-men and crew flashed their
swords over his head, and swore they would
follow him to the death. Over his head, for
he was alone upon the deck with the dead.

How it all came back — his long illness —
Wat Kilby's constant care— how he was
brought home, and their ship ascended the
little river — how he was taken to Roehurst, to
gradually win his way back to health and
strength; and then there were the happy
days he had spent with little Mace as his
playfellow till he rejoined the ship, and was
hailed by those on board as their very captain,
under whom nominally, but with Wat
Kilby as their head, they had sailed to east

and west, trading, fighting when Spaniards
were in the way, till he had really taken the
helm, and led the unquiet spirits who had
always chafed at the rule of James, their
dislike culminating in hatred after they had
joined in Raleigh's luckless venture and returned.
Then had come a long time of quiet
trading — the ship they sailed bearing to
other shores year after year the produce of
the Roehurst forges, and bringing back the
old founder's needs ; sulphur from Sicily
or Iceland ; Chinese salt, as they called it —
saltpetre — from the east.

And now after all these years, when the
captain's love for his little playmate had
grown into the strong, absorbing passion of
a man for the woman of his heart, he was
suddenly called upon to give her up.

The day wore on as Gil sat there thinking;
the wood-pigeons set up their mournful coo-coo,
coo-coo, heedless of his presence; the
blackbirds that swarmed in the low coppices,

where the trees had been cut down, uttered
their alarm-notes, and then came and hunted
out the wild cherries close at hand ; and at
last, as here and there the bright lamps of
the glowworms were lit, the rabbits came
out to frisk and feed, so still and thoughtful
was the occupant of the glade.

No," he said at last, '' I will not. My
life has been rough, but I cannot blame myself
for that ; and I will not. I cannot give
her up. Mace, my darling, if I knew that
by never seeing you again I should add to
your happiness, I would bear the suffering
like a man. As it is, Master Cobbe, I must
go against your will."

He strode hastily away, with the wild
creatures of the woods scattering right and
left at his heavy tread, and, making straight
for the gabled house, he began for the first
time now to think upon its occupant.

Once or twice a pang shot through his
breast as he thought of the gaily-dressed

young officer made a welcome guest at the
house whose door he was forbidden to enter ;
and he stopped short, with his teeth getting
together, and his brow knit, his mind
agitated by the thoughts of what might be.

It was very still, and the soft balmy
summer night-air bore the sounds from faraway,
as with a faint, piercing, shrill cry
the bats wheeled around the tree beneath
whose dark shadow he stood ; the nighthawk
chased the moths in busy circle, and a
great white-breasted owl floated softly by,
turned and flew beneath the tree, but on
seeing Gil uttered a wild and thrilling
shriek as it fled away, a sound in keeping
with the words of Gil Carr, as he walked
hastily on once more, exclaiming —

'^ I should slay him if he did."

The object of his thoughts was Sir Mark
Leslie, then lying on a couch by the open
window of his room, with the sweet scents
of the garden floating in, and the soft, moist,

warm night-air playing pleasantly upon his
forehead.

He, too, had his thoughts fixed upon Mace,
and, perhaps by a subtle influence, they were
drawn, too, towards him whom he had seen
as her companion in the boat, the man who
had played surgeon, and in whose eyes he
had seemed to read no friendly feeling
towards himself.

It must have been ten o'clock when Gil
came in sight of the gables standing up
against the soft, clear summer sky. The occupants
of the neighbouring cottages were
asleep, and with the exception of the beetle's
drone, and the baying of some bugle-mouthed
beagle, all was so silent that the ripple and
rush of the water in the stone channel seemed
to rise and fall with almost painful force.

There was a broad sloping bankjsome
thirty or forty yards from the front of the
house, and, taking off his hat, Gil softly
walked along by it for a little distance,

stooping here and there to thrust his hand
in among the long dew-wet grass, and place
something in his hat.

So occupied was he with his proceedings
that he did not notice a figure seated beneath
a tree nor heed the faint odour of
tobacco which was nearly overpowered in the
soft, sweet woodland scents that floated by.
Neither did he notice that a window was
open in one of the gables, and that the
founder was seated there, gazing out upon
the summer sky.

For, lover-like, Gil Carr was just then
very blind, perhaps because the thoughts of
Mace Cobbe filled his breast to the exclusion
of everything else. Turning then to his task,
he walked back to the sloping bank, and
softly placed the four glow-worms he had
brought diamond-wise upon the grass, where
the little creatures glimmered in the darkness
like the signal-lights of a ship at sea.

So thought Gil Carr, as he turned to look
at them from a little distance, and then,
softly walking to the little swing-bridge, he
crossed it lightly in the darkness, and, leaping
the fence, stood amongst the clustering
roses waiting for the opening of a window
ten feet above his head.

He had not long to wait, for the signal
had been seen, and before many moments
had elapsed there was a slight grating noise
and then a soft voice that made the young
man's heart throb uttered the one word —

'' Gil."

eyes, dear, I am here," he replied,
eagerly.

show foolish!" came next from overhead.
^'Why, Gil, you were with me this
afternoon, and yet you play the love-sick
swain beneath my window now."

"I am sick with love, sweet; even unto
death."

'^ Are you turning poet, Gil ?"

^^ Yes, for I seem to live in a sphere of
poesy when I think of thee."

'^ You foolish boy."

^^I am," he said. ^^ Would I could see
thine eyes."

^^ And that they were glow-worms," she
said laughingly. '^ There, good-night, dear
Gil. It is late, and I must to bed. If
you are my true love, come boldly to the
house by day ; such meetings as this become
neither thee nor me."

stay awhile, sweet," he said. ^^ What
of your guest ?"

'poor fellow! I have not seen him
since."

Gil sighed content.

^^ There, I must fain go now, dear Gil.
Good night''

^^ Nay, nay ! a moment longer," he cried.

'^ Why, Gil," she cried, laughing musically,
^^ one would think you were a lover

forsaken and forlorn, condemned to stay-away
— forbidden the house'

'a am."

^^What?"

slam, sweet; and condemned to stolen
meetings."

^' Why, Gil ? " she exclaimed ; and in a
low voice he told her all.

Meanwhile as Gil's dark figure was seen
approaching the house, the watcher at the
open window drew back to ensure being
unseen, and then proceeded to follow the
young man's movements, ending by going
to the far end of the room, taking down a
curious old Spanish matchlock from a couple
of slings, and then opening an oaken cabinet,
from which he took powder in a carved
horn flask, and a small pouch of bullets,
with which the piece was carefully charged.
Then the match was cautiously lit, and,
approaching the window, the barrel was
laid upon the sill, as he who carried it

went down on one knee, and took a careful
aim at the young man where he stood.

*^I could bring him down easily," muttered
the watcher. '^ He shall not play
with me and break her heart."

^^ Nay," he growled, the next minute,
'^ it would be cowardly, and he is a brave
strong lad. But he shall not trifle with
either of us, and I will not have him here.

'' Shall I fire ? " he said, holding the
heavy piece hesitatingly; and the long
barrel shook in his hand.

The hesitation was not for long. With
a sigh of annoyance he placed the matchlock
in the corner, and, going downstairs,
he went out softly by the back, and came
right round by the front of the house, as
if meaning to interrupt the meeting now in
progress, but instead of so doing he went
down to the great mill-wheel, and crossed the
water by means of its spokes and paddles.
Then stealing softly along by the far edge

of the deep stream, he crossed it by the
bridge, and by putting a long lever in motion
swung the bridge right round, leaving
the way perfectly open, so that any one
coming from the house would, in place of
going across the bridge, walk in the darkness
right into the deep water, and, however
strong a swimmer he might be, he
would be carried down by the force of the
stream right amidst the woodwork of the
wheel, perhaps past it, and down into the
lower fall amongst the rocks beneath.

'^ He won't drown," muttered the founder;
'' and it will be a lesson to him — teach him
that I don't mean play."

Walking softly back to the mill-wheel he
crossed again, made his way into the house,
and then to the window, where he once more
took up his position, and began to watch the
dimly-seen crossing, waiting to see the disturber,
as he termed him, of his daughter's
peace, fall headlong into the channel.

Hardly had he settled himself, though, to
watch, when a change came over him.

^^ No, hang it," he muttered, ^^ it is a dirty,
mean trick ; and Gil Carr is too good a man
to treat in such a way. I've been hard
enough upon him, and there is no need for
this. I'll go and put it back."

The founder went down stairs once more,
and out into the darkness with the full intent
of replacing the bridge ; but he was too
late. Before he could reach the rough
framework by which he had crossed, there
was a step away to the right, a cry, a tremendous
splash, and, as for a few moments
he stood paralysed by the rushing stream,
he caught a glimpse of a white face amidst
the black water, and then it disappeared.

The founder's repentance seemed to have
come too late, and his trap had apparently
acted but too well. For the first time, perhaps,
he realised that a man's chance of life
in those rushing waters was very small. He

had once helped to draw out the body of one
who had been drowned in the great pool,
and who had gradually been drawn down to
get entangled in the mill-wheel, but he had
never seen any one fall directly into the race,
and he was startled at the velocity with
which the figure passed.

^ ' My poor lad ! '' he groaned. ^ ' What have
I done ? Of all the passionate fools ! "

Here he was interrupted by a couple of
figures approaching out of the darkness, one
on either side of the stream, and a voice that
made him start exclaimed, '' Has he passed
you ? "

Setting a trap is one thing, catching the
right bird you set it for quite another affair.

In this case Jeremiah Cobbe had calculated
pretty well, but he had not foreseen all the
possibilities, and the consequence was that
the man for whose benefit the bridge had
been drawn aside had not fallen into the
stream.

For no sooner had the founder entered the
house and closed the door than a tall, gaunt
figure rose up from behind the thick hedge
which sheltered the garden, and uttered a
low peculiar signal, somewhat like the cry of
a sea-bird. This he repeated twice without
effect, and he was about to risk being heard
in replacing the swing-bridge when a sound
from another direction made him shrink
back to his hiding-place, after giving another
signal exactly like the seamen's cry.

The sound he heard was a footstep, and
the watcher knew in an instant that it was
not Gil's, both by its peculiarity and by its
coming in a fresh direction from that in
which he had heard the answer to his last
signal.

It's Cobbe come back to slew round the
bridge," he muttered to himself, as he
crouched down ; and hardly had he uttered
the remark than there was a slip, a loud

VOL. I. H

SWEET MACE.

ejaculation, and then a sharp cry and a
splash.

** Then it wasn't Cobbe," exclaimed the
watcher, as he sprang up, and, repeating his
signal, he soon heard his leader's footsteps
hastily approaching. '^ Don't try to cross,"
he said ; ^Hhe bridge has gone and some one
has fallen in. Run to the wheel, or whoever
it is will be there first, and take a
dower into the lower bole."

Gil ran along the side of the swift channel,
and, directly after encountering the dimly-seen
form of the founder, he exclaimed,
'^ Has he passed you ? "

'^ Yes; quick," cried the old man, as he
tried hard to recover from the shock he had
received; 'ewe may stop him by the wheel
here. Who was it ? "

'' Heaven knows," cried Gil ; '' don't stop
to talk."

As he spoke he was already down on his
knees beside the wheel, and made a snatch

at something which was hitched on to one
of the broad slimy paddles ; but even as he
stretched out his hand the shape glided
away, and went over the fall with a shoot
into the black water down below.

^' For God's sake, be quick," cried the
founder, ^' or he'll be drowned, whoever he is.
Drop on to the stones below ; the water is
only a few inches deep at the side, and you
may reach him as he comes up with the
eddy."

Without a moment's hesitation Gil lowered
himself over the wood-piles, and dropped
with a splash on to the water worn pebbles
below, where there was a broad shelf before
the water went sheer down ten or a dozen
feet into a hole caused by the washing of
the heavy stream that fell from above.

Overhung as it was by willows, and enclosed
by slimy piles and masses of fern-hung
rock, it was a gruesome place, at
mid-day, with the sun shining. By night
hits

very aspect would have been enough to
deter most men from venturing to plunge
in. It, however, had no deterrent effect
upon Gil, who leaned forward, peering into
the darkness, to see if he could reach the
drowning man; but finding that he was
swept away by the stream, and being drawn
round by the eddy towards the falling
torrent which came over in a sheet, he
plunged boldly in, caught the first part of
the drowning man's garments he could seize,
and swam strongly towards the lower part of
the waste water, where Wat Kilby was ready
to give him a helping hand, half dragging
him out, and at the same time whispering a
few words in his ear.

Jeremiah Cobbe was beside them directly,
eagerly asking who it was they had saved.

^' It looks like your guest. Master Cobbe,"
said Gil sourly. ^* There, he is not drowned,
but coming-to fast. I'll leave you to take
him home ; and, perhaps, you had better tell

him to keep in the house at night, as you
have taken to the bad habit of setting traps
to catch your friends."

^^ Not for my friends, Gil Carr, but for
those who act like rats or other vermin, and
steal round my place at ungodly hours,"
cried the founder angrily.

recall it what you will. Master Cobbe,"
said Gil, coldly, ^* I'll say good night;"
and without another word he walked away
to change his wet garments, while the
founder helped his half-drowned guest back
to the house.

CHAPTER VI.

HOW WAT Kirby WENT WOOING.

Sir Mark's wound was of such a nature
that, being a young and healthy man, it
would soon have healed up ; but his imprudence
in leaving the house, and his immersion,
gave matters so unfavourable a
turn that next morning he was unable to
leave his bed, and, on a messenger arriving
from the Moat with Sir Thomas Beckley's
inquiries how it was Sir Mark had not returned,
he was sent back with the news of
the young man's accident, nothing being
mentioned about the sword-wound. The
result was that Gil, in the course of the
morning, when he happened to be strolling

in that direction, met Sir Thomas and his
daughter on their way to Roehurst, followed
by a servant laden with a basket.

Mistress Anne's face turned white, then
rosy red, as she saw Gil approach, and asher
eyes met his they were full of reproach
and angry resentment, which rapidly gave
place to a girlish, half-playful manner as
soon as Sir Thomas mentioned the cause of
his visit.

^^ A perilous accident has befallen my
guest, Captain Carr," said the baronet,
pompously — '^ Sir Mark Leslie, a Scottish
gentleman, a special messenger from his
Majesty, who has come here on important
business. He was nearly drowned last
even, and is now ill abed. We have
brought him some simples and medicaments
of Dame Beckley's own preparation, and
we hope soon to have him back."

^^ Oh, yes," said Mistress Anne, with a
sigh, and a meaning look at Gil.

He makes you a pleasant companion,
Mistress Anne," said Gil, quietly.

^^ Oh, yes," she cried ; '' he is delightful
so much Court news — such polish; it is
indeed a pleasure to meet a true gentleman
down here."

^* Which I am not, then," thought Gil.

'swill nothing move him to jealousy?"
said Anne Beckley to herself ; and with her
eyes flashing angrily, she laid her hand on
her father's arm, and after a polite salutation
they passed on.

'^ Poor girl! " said Gil to himself. *^ I am
not a vain man, but if she be not ogling,
and cap-setting, and trying to draw me on
at her apron-string, I am an ass. Why," he
continued, turning to gaze after the little
party just as Mistress Anne turned her own
head quickly to look after him, and, seeing
that he was doing the same, snatched herself
away as if in dudgeon — ^' one would
think that she was trying to draw me on by

her looks, and seeking to make me jealous
of this gay lad from town. Poor lass ! it is
labour in vain ; and she would not cause mea
pang if she married him tomorrow.
What's that ? "

'' That " was a slight rustling noise
amongst the trees, followed by a '^ clink-clink
clink " of flint against steel ; and
striding out of the path and going in the
direction of the sound Gil came upon Wat
Kilby, seated in a mossy nook, blowing at a
spark in some tinder and holding his little
pipe ready in his hand.

^^ Hollo, Wat!" cried Gil.

The gaunt old fellow went on blowing
without paying the slightest heed to the
summons, then applied a rough match
dipped in brimstone, whose end, on application
to the glowing spark in the tinder, first
melted, and then began to burn with a
fluttering blue flame. This was soon communicated
to the splint of wood, and the

flame was then carefully held in a scarlet
cap taken from Wat's grizzly half-bald head
for shelter from the soft summer breeze,
while he held the bowl of his little pipe toit
and solemnly puffed it alight, after which
he rose from his knees, took up a sitting
position with his back against an old beech,
gazed up in the speaker's face and replied —

Hollo, skipper!"

^'I wanted to see you Wat," said Gril.
*' Look here, old lad, how came you to be
hanging about the house last night when
you gave the signal ? "

^' Hah ! " ejaculated Wat, exhaling a thin
puff of fine blue smoke and gazing straight
before him through the sun-pleached foliage
of the forest.

'^ Do you hear me?" cried Gil, impatiently,
as he stamped his heavy foot upon
the moss.

'^ Hah ! " ejaculated Wat again. ^' I was
there on the watch."

*' Yes, yes ; and what did you see ? "

'' Mas' Cobbe come out soon after you
had gone across the little bridge and poor
it out of the way."

'' Yes, yes; go on."

'' Then I give you the signal two or three
times before I could make you hear, and just
then I heard another step and hid away,
and 'fore I had time to do more — in he
went. You know."

Yes ; but look here, Wat, how came you
to be there ? "

^'I was there to save my skipper from
being looked," growled Wat, slowly and
between puffs of his pipe. '' It was as if I
had been sent on purpose."

^' It's a lie," cried Gil, angrily. ^' Wat,
you are an old trickster and a cheat. How
dare you try to deceive me ? ''

^' There," said Wat, quietly addressing a
beech pollard before him ; ^^ that's gratitude

for watching over and saving him from being
looked."

'^ Of course you saved me from danger,
just as any brave man would try to save
another, and more especially one of a crew,
his skipper. There is no merit attached to
that. Now look here, Wat, confess, for I
am sure I know."

^' I don't know about no confessing,"
growled Wat; ^^ you're a skipper, not a
priest. Repose I asked you what you were
doing there ? If the captain sets such an
example, what can you 'spect of the crew ? "

Gil twisted his moustache angrily, and
then turned sharply on his follower.

'' You were not watching me ?"

'' I ain't going to tell no lies. No."

^^ You as good as say, then, that you were
on the same errand as I ? "

I ain't going to sail round no headlands
when there's a port right in front. I ain't
ashamed. Yes, I were."

Look here, Wat Kilby," said Gil, after
taking a step or two up and down in front
of the old fellow, who calmly leaned back
and gazed straight before him — " look here,
Wat Kilby, you have been like a second
father to me."

Hah !" And then a puff of smoke.

And I would not willingly hurt your
feelings."

*' Hah !"

*' But I hold in great respect the people
who dwell in yon house, and I will not
have them in anywise annoyed''

Then I wouldn't go coming the Spanish
Don, under their windows o' nights,"
growled Wat.

Silence, sir," cried Gil.

As he spoke, the young man's face
flushed with shame and mortification at
being twitted with his amorous passages,
but there was a look of command and an
imperious tone in his voice that told of one

accustomed to be obeyed, and the great
lank muscular man, tanned and hardened
by a life of exposure, shuffled uneasily in
his seat and let his little pipe go out.

If it had been another man, Wat," continued
Gril, ^'I should have given him a
week in irons for daring to go near the
place."

"What! after his skipper set an example
?" growled Wat.

Silence, sir'' roared Gil, catching the
old fellow by the shoulder. "Bah!" he
continued, calming down, "Why do you
anger me, Wat ?" and he loosed his hold.

'' Oh, haul away, young 'un," growled
Wat, with a grim smile, "you don't hurt
me. I like to see what a sturdy young
lion you've grown. That's your father,
every inch of him, as did that. Hah! he
was a one."

"Let him rest, Wat," cried Gil impatiently.
" My father would never have

looked over an act of folly or disobedience.
Neither will I."

"You never ordered me not to go,"
growled Watched

I do now, sir ! Look here. What
does it mean ? Are you not ashamed of yourself,
carrying on these gallantries ? There
was that Carib woman out at Essequibo."

Hah ! '' with a smokeless exhalation.

"And the flat-nosed Malayan in the
Eastern Seas''

"Hah!"

"And that Chinese, yellow, moon-faced
woman."

"Hah!"

And the black girl on the Guinea
Coast."

shah!"

*' And that Portingallo wench, and the
Spanish lass with the dark eyes, and that
great Greek, and a score beside."

"Hah! Yes, skipper," said Wat calmly.

"I've got an ugly shell, but the core inside
is very soft."

"Soft? Yes."

"But you're going back a many years,
skipper."

'^ I need," cried Gril angrily. '* A man of
your age, too ! Why, Wat, you're sixty, if
you are a day !"

^' Sixty-four," growled Wat quietly, as he
took out his flint and steel and screwed up
his grim weather-beaten face.

*' Then it's a disgrace to you ! "

'disgrace? What's being sixty-four got
to do with it ? "

Why you're an old man, sir ! "

^^ Old man ? Not I, captain. I'm as
young as ever I was, and as fond of a pretty
girl. I'm not old; and, if I was, I get
fonder of 'em every year I live."

It is disgraceful, sir ! " cried Gril, angrily.
You ought to be thinking of your coffin
instead of pretty girls."

That touched Wat home, and he sprang
to his feet with the activity of a boy.

^'No, I oughtn't, skipper," he cried, excitedly.
sand, look here, don't you say
that there terrifying word to me again — I
hate it. When it's all over, if you don't
have me dropped overboard, just as I am,
at sea, or even here at home in the little
river, I'll come back and haunt you. Coffin,
indeed ! Talk about such trade as that !
Just as if I hadn't sailed round the world
like a man."

He reseated himself, and began once more
to use his flint and steel, but this time
viciously.

^^ Once for all then, Wat, I will not have
this sort of thing here. A man of your
years hanging about after that great ugly
dairy wench."

'' Who did ? " cried Wat sharply. '' Nay,
captain, never."

VOL. I. I

shave I been mistaken, then?" cried
Gil, eagerly. ^* Stop, though — you don't
mean to say that you have been casting
your ancient eyes on Janet ? "

'^ Why not ? " cried Wat, leaping up once
more. ^^ She's as pretty a creature as ever
I set my ancient eyes, as you call 'em, on."

^'Why, man, she's eighteen, and you are
sixty four."

sall the better," cried Wat. ^' Janet it
is, and I'm going to wed her."

^* Does she know it ? "

^'Not quite, captain, not yet. Look ye
here, skipper, my poor old mother had a
plum grow on a tree by the cottage wall,
and when I was a boy I meant to have that
plum. Did I go and pick it right off and
eat it there and then ? Nay, I set my eyes
on that plum while it was young and green,
and saw it grow day by day rounder and
redder, and covered with soft down and

riper purple, and more rich and plump, and
at last, when I picked that plum, I had a
hundred times more 'payment than if I'd
plucked it when I saw it first. That's what
I'm doing with little Janet, and that's what
Master Peasegood calls a parabole."

Gril felt that he might just as well argue
with a rock as with his rugged old follower,
so he changed the subject.

•' When will the Golden Fleece be fit for
sea again ? "

*^ It'll be a month before they've got in
the new keel, captain, and then she's got to
be well overhauled."

It will be two months, then, before we
can load up ? "

^' Ay, all that," was the reply.

** Go on getting in the meal and bacon.
Have it ready for placing in store. We
must have everything ready there for putting
on board."

i2

^'Ay, ay, skipper."

^^ Keep the men from going near. Let
there be no hanging about the valley on any
pretence. See to that with those two last
lads."

^*Ay," growled Wat. ^^ The others can
be trusted, of course."

Gil nodded, and walked away, while Patient
on striking a light.

''He's half afraid T should get in his
way," growled the old fellow, 'but he
needn't be. Much better be afraid of someone
finding out the store. There's a new
man come to live here, and a new cottage
built. The place is getting too thick with
people, and if we don't mind we shall be
found out. Who's yonder ? " he continued,
shading his eyes, and gazing through the
wood. "Churr and Mother Goodhugh. An'
if we're ever found out, that Churr's the
man who will do it. And if — if — if — he —
does — the captain — will — hang — him — at —

th' yard — arm —sure — as — he's — a — sinful —
soul— hah ! "

There was a puff in lighting the pipe
between each of these last words, ending
with an expiration, after which Wat Kilby
leaned back on the moss, half closed his
eyes, and lay watching the couple he had
named as they stood talking in the wood.

CHAPTER VII.

HOW MISTRESS ANNE SOUGHT A SPELL.

The days passed swiftly on in the lonely
little valley where Jeremiah Cobbe had cast
his lot. The trees flourished, and the wondrous
variety of wildflowers, for which that
part of the Sussex weald has always been
famed, succeeded each other, and made gay
the banks and laughs, while beneath the
spreading oaks and beeches in the great
forest the verdant carpet was always bright.
The many streamlets went on carving their
way through the yellow sandrock, and fell ina
thousand tiny cascades, whose soft spray
moistened the fronds of the luxuriant ferns.
All was beautiful, for nature seemed there

never to resent the fact that the ironmaster's
workers delved ore from the hill-side, cut
down the woods and burned them to charcoal,
and then melted the iron to run in
orange streams in the deftly-formed moulds
for howitzer, culverin, or simple gun. There
had been accidents, when, with a sudden roar,
some powder-shed had blown up, blasting
the herbage and leaves around; but a few
showers and the bright hot sun soon restored
all to its pristine state, and, embowered in
trees, the works sent up their charcoal fumes
without poisoning the air, or doing more
harm than the saline breezes that swept over
the hills from off the sea.

Mistress Anne Beckley, with Sir Thomas,
and at times with Dame Beckley herself, was
a constant attendant at the Pool with simples
and wonderful decoctions of camomile, agrimony,
balm, and bitter cress, all of which the
dame declared were certain to subdue the
fever in Sir Mark's brain ; but somehow they

did not, and he lingered on at the Pool house,
listening to the nightingales, gathering wildflowers,
refusing to see a leech, and declaring
that he only wanted time.

He was not confined to his bed, but lounged
on couch and easy chair, or walked slowly
in the garden, languid and pale, with his
arm supported in a sling, receiving with a
patient smile the sympathising glances of
Mistress Anne, who fawned upon him and
tenderly watched his every change.

But he could not leave the Pool house, and
shook his head sadly when, urged by his
daughter. Sir Thomas protested that the
invalid ought to be brought back to the
Moat.

Dame Beckley's preparations did not seem
to do the good she anticipated ; still they did
some, for, being composed of so much water
and vegetable juices, they must have had
beneficial effects upon the roses and other
plants around his bedroom window— plants

which the young courtier duly moistened
from the vessel sent to him. Otherwise
fared the wine, for of that he partook liberally,
as well as of Jeremiah Cobbe's strong
drinks.

It must have been from dissatisfaction
with her mother's treatment of the patient
that one day, — after a visit to the Pool house,
in whose quiet cool parlour she had found
Sir Mark lying back in an easy chair with a
snowy pillow beneath his head, and with
Mace seated near reading to him at his wish
from a little book of ballads written by one
Sir Thomas Wyatt, — Mistress Anne, instead
of going straight back home, sent the serving-man,
who was her guardian, to spend an
hour with the men at the mill, and herself
turned down a narrow winding track almost
overgrown with bearing, briony, and grass.
^^I hate her," she said to herself, as she
set her teeth and drove her nails into her
palms. ''I" saw — I saw her looking at me

with triumph flashing out of her wicked
eyes ; and I'll kill her, I'll poison her, before
she shall beat me again. If he would only
get well — if he would only get well."

A slight rustle on her left made her start,
but it was only a blackbird bursting through
the dense mass of tangled growth that rose
like a vast hedge on either side of the winding
track, from which the wanton brambles
and lithe boughs kept thrusting across young
shoots like friendly hands to grasp each
other and join in claiming the rugged lane
as their own by conquest's right.

A little further on a snake that had been
sunning itself on a stump raised its head,
uttered a low hiss, and glided rapidly away
amidst the dense undergrowth ; while again,
a few yards further on, she came upon a
short thick adder, lying right in her path, and
apparently very careless about leaving it.

It was remarkable now that Anne Beckley
displayed no fear of the wild animals she

met. She had started at the blackbird's
rustle, believing that she was watched, but
on seeing the reptiles, now that there was
no Sir Mark to whom she might cling for
support, she broke off a slight hazel branch,
and cut sharply at the adder where it lay ;
and as it raised its head and struck at her
she cut it again and again till she had disabled
it, and ended by crushing its head in
the earth.

Then throwing aside her stick she hastened
on, but the exertion had made her warm,
and seating herself upon a mossy part of the
bank she stayed to rest in the cool damp
shade, beneath a great oak-tree.

Before she had been seated there many
minutes she became aware of a slight movement
in the grass, and, as she watched, a long
lithe weasel bounded into sight, stopped, with
its neck stretched up and head erect, watching
her ; but as she did not move the animal
ran up the bank and crept down a mouse-hole,

so small that it seemed impossible for
it to have passed.

There was something about that weasel
that attracted Anne, who remained watching
the little hole, till all at once a mouse in an
apparent state of collapse was thrust out, the
neck and body of the weasel followed, and
away the long thin creature bounded into
the thick grass and disappeared.

A minute later there came a robin to settle
upon a twig, and watch her with its great
round eyes, but the loud . china-chink of
a blackbird sent the robin away, and the
orange-billed bird hopped down into the
lane and began poking and peering about
among the leaves till it secured a snail, in the
dampest, darkest, spot, which unfortunate it
bore into the path and hammered upon a
stone till the shell was broken, when the soft-bodied
snail was daintily picked out, swallowed,
and the blackbird flew away.

Almost before Mistress Anne had noticed

that the blackbird was gone, the robin came
back to gaze at the intruder, with its head
on one side, and then made a flit to where
the leaves upon the moist bank had been
disturbed by the blackbird. Here the robin's
quick eyes had spied out a large glowworm
hastily making its escape, under the impression
that there was danger below.

This long worm the robin seized and bore,
writhing and twining, in its bill to the path,
where it set down its prize, but only to seize
it again and give it a series of fierce nips
from end to end, accompanying each nip
with a sharp shake to stop the twining,
which, however, was not entirely done, for
when the little redbreast seized its victim
by the head there was a slight undulating
motion going on — a movement continued as
the bird began rapidly to gulp it down.

This feat seemed to fascinate Mistress Anne,
who watched the last bit of tail disappear,
the robin having succeeded in taking down

a worm nearly twice its own length ; such a
feat, indeed, as a man would have accomplished
had he made a meal of a serpent
some ten or eleven feet long, swallowing it,
writhing and twisting, whole.

^* How cruel Nature is!" said Mistress
Anne, in a low thoughtful voice, and as she
spoke there was a strange light in her eyes.
Everything for its own pleasure seems to
kill what it wills. Why should I not be
cruel too ? "

She laughed then — a curious unpleasant
laugh ; and rising, the robin flitted away
over the low undergrowth, apparently none
the heavier for its meal, and there was a
sharp rustle and a bound in the grass.

Mistress Anne Beckley seemed now to be
too much occupied by her thoughts to pay
much heed to the objects she passed as she
walked slowly on.

Once more she said softly, '' Why should
not I be cruel too ? " Then she laughed ina

very unpleasant way, and half closed her
eyes.

About a mile farther, and in a very solitary
place by an opening in the sandstone
rock that rose in front, she stopped before a
low, thatched cottage, glanced to right and
left hastily, and then opening the rough
gate, passed between a couple of rows of
old-fashioned flowers, pushed the door, and
entered the low ceiled, homely room, with
its bricked floor and open fireplace, wherein
spite of the heat, a few sticks of wood
were smouldering between the firedogs.

Quite in the chimney-corner, and seated
upon a stool so low that her chin was
brought in close proximity to her knees, was
a hard-featured gaunt woman of sixty,
dressed in widow's weeds of a very homely
kind, but scrupulously clean. The muslin kerchief
and cap she wore were white as snow,
and her grey hair was tidily smoothed back.
But, in spite of her neat look, there was

something repulsive about the woman's face
a look of low cunning that played about
her thin lips, which were drawn in at the
corners, while she had a habit of bringing
her thick grey eyebrows down over her eyes
so as almost to conceal them, though, as you
looked at her, you felt that she was scrutinising
you severely from behind the shaggy
grey fringe, and judging you from a hidden
point of view.

She rose from her seat as Mistress Anne
entered, and welcomed her with a smile, half
defiant, half fawning.

'' Tm so glad to see thee again, dearie,"
she said, in a harsh voice. '^ What can 1 do
for thee now?"

'' I don't know," cried the visitor, sharply;
'^ but look here, Mother Goodhugh, mind
this : my father is a justice, and if you play
foul games with me I have only to complain
to have you seized and punished as a
witch."

^' Me a witch, dearie ? Oh, fie ! I never
pretended to be, only helped you to a little
of my knowledge when you came to me."

^' I believe your knowledge is all nonsense,"
cried the girl, angrily. ^^ What good
has it done ? "

^' Ah, it is impossible to say," replied the
woman, looking furtively at her visitor ; ' ^ and
you may not have given him the potion at
a lucky time. I know it was right, my
dear," she added, in a low, mysterious whisper.
*^ I gathered the herbs myself, and distilled
them every one. You don't know :
you can't tell. He may love you very
dearly, and only be holding back from fear
of your high place. Was not your father
made a titled man just then ? "

*^ Yes," replied the visitor.

^' Then that was it," cried the woman,
triumphantly. ^^ Depend upon it, mistress,
you have him safe."

'^ But he is always with her — always,

VOL. I. K

Mother Goodhugli ; and when we meet he
has only a contemptuous kind of laugh forme."


^* That means nothing, dearie. It may be
only the man's spirit fighting against his
heart. I can't think, lovey, but what you
have him safe. How many times has he
had the drink ? "
^^Nine.''

^* And nine drops each time ? "
*' Yes, as nearly as I could drop them.
My hand shook so."

'' Ah," cried the woman, eagerly, '^ what
did I tell thee? Nine drops nine times
dropped make eighty-one, and eight and one
are nine."

*^ Yes," said Anne Beckley.
^' Did I not warn thee that any mistake
would spoil the spell ? "

*^ Yes, but that could not matter."
'* Ah, that is not for me to say," replied
the woman. '* But there, sit ye down.

dearie, and I'll do what I can for you. If it
wasn't that you love him I'd say to you let
him go on in his terrifying ways, and wed
her if he will. She belongs to an accursed
race, and would bring him never good."

*^ But she shan't marry him ! " cried Anne,
with flashing eyes. '' I hate her, Mother
Goodhugh, and would sooner see her dead.
She's a witch. I'm sure she's a witch."

*• And why are you sure, lovey ? ''

'' Because — because — she bewitches men
to her, and holds them by her side. I have
tried, oh, so hard, but I cannot."

'' Nay, child, nay, but you can, though
not so strongly ; for you do it by good, while
she does it by ill."

'' But I can't, Mother Goodhugh," cried
the girl, petulantly.

Ah, but you do," said the woman, who

began to walk up and down the brick floor,

muttering and talking as if to herself. '* She

must, she must, for she is very beautiful and

K 2

good. She has but to wish it over the nine
drops to win the hearts of as many lovers
as her heart desires."

^' But, Mother Goodhugh," whispered
Anne, whose heart was open enough to a
little insidious flattery, '' I did try so hard,
and it seemed to do no good ; and now a
great officer has come to the Moat, and he
had to go down to the Pool-house."

Yes, yes, I know, I know," said Mother
Goodhugh, " and she has witched him, too.
Yes ; she sits with him and reads to him, and
smiles softly in his face, and she'll win him
to her ways, no doubt. But you don't care
for that, child. Let her win him, and it
will settle the love, and leave brave, stout
Captain Gil for you."

'' But I do care, mother ; — I won't have it
I can't bear it. She does all this to spite
me, and it drives me nearly mad. You must
give me something that shall bring him
back. Oh, pray, pray, help me."

Nay, nay, child, you threatened me just
now, and talked of your father, and punishing
me as a witch. Ah, ah! I didn't deserve
it."

'' That was only because I was peevish
and fretful. Mother Goodhugh,'* cried the
girl appealingly; 'for it is so hard to find
both the men of your heart go to her straight,
and leave you behind as a thing of naught."

'' Both the men— both ? " cried Mother
Goodhugh, with a hoarse chuckle, '' Go to,
go to, wicked girl ; will not one suffice ? "

Oh, yes, yes, I'd give up Captain Gil,
mother, but I cannot bear to see this new
one go over to her too. You must help me
you shall."

Heyday, my dearie, what can I do ?
And besides, you laugh at my potions. I am
not a witch, child, only a wise woman, who
works hard to find out what herbs gathered
at vital times can do. But I know nothing at
all — nothing at all. Try something mixed

by good Dame Beckley, thy mother ; she can
distil you something, I'll warrant ye."

No, no, Mother Goodhugh ; how can I
tell her of my fainting heart, and my sighs
for a loving man. Fie ! Who tells her mother
of such things ? Come, help me."

'^ Nay, child, it is of no use. Go to someone
else."

^^But you must help me, mother'' cried
the girl, appealingly.

'nay, child, I cannot; and besides, to do
what you will is costly. Many's the long
and weary time Master Abel Churr has spent
in watching to get for me the toadweed
when it blossomed at midnight, just at the
moment when its flowers opened, and before
the dew had time to wet it once. And
heavily have I paid him for the earliest
shoots of dog's mercury, and the roots of the
peavetch grown in a dripping rill. Nay, child,
I lose by thy coming here. Go ask some one
else to help thee. I can do no more."

^* Yes, yes, you will help me, Mother
Goodhugh," cried the girl, thrusting a small
gold piece into her hand. '^ Come, haste
and prepare me something."

'^ Nay, child, I'm weary of it all," said
Mother Goodhugh, making an offer to return
the piece. ^^ The toil to my brain is terrifying,
and I lay. awake knights after thinking
of it all, and wondering whether it be wicked,
and what's to become afterward of my sinful
soul, for doing such things. Suppose through
helping you to your lovers I am kept from
joining my poor dear husband who's now in
Heaven. Ah, no, I'll have no more to do
with thee."

For answer Anne Beckley gave her foot
an impatient stamp, and sought for and
found a couple of silver crowns, which she
added to the gold piece, and pressed into
the old woman's hand, which closed upon
them like a hawk's claw upon some tiny

partridge chick ; and a grim smile of satisfaction
came upon her face.

'swell, well, well, I suppose I must,
dearie; and if I go to perdition for it all
you'll have to pay for getting me prayed
for when I'm dead. Now, then, what be I
to do?"

'^ Give me the nine-drop distilled again,
mother, and I will try it ; but, if it fails this
time, I'll never trust thee more. I'll, I'll —
there, I'll have thee put in prison for a
witch."

'^ Then not a drop will I give thee," cried
the old woman, passionately. ^^ Go, get your
own lovers as you can. Ah! you cannot;
for if I be punished as a witch I'll ill-wish
you; I'll put such a spell upon you that
men shall avoid you to the end of your days.
You shall grow thin and old, and dry and
yellow, and shall never know the joys of a
pair of manly arms pressing you to a throbbing

breast ; you shall never taste the sweet
kisses of love ; and, instead of your lips pouting
red and warm for more, they shall grow
thin, and dry, and white, and cracked in
your lonely, childless old age. I'll curse you
—I'll "

^^No, no. Mother Goodhugh, dear Mother
Goodhugh," cried the girl, catching at her
arm. ^' 1 did but jest. I'll never say word
to a soul, but keep all your secrets, and you
shall have money and presents from the
Moat ; only help me, mother — only give me
the means to win him."

^^Him? Whom?" cried Mother Good-hugh,
sharply.

^*Sir Mark," faltered Anne, with her face
growing crimson.

^'Why not Captain Gil Carr?" replied
Mother Goodhugh. ^^ But there'' she continued,
going into an inner room, and keeping
on talking aloud till she returned with a
little clumsily shaped phial, which she held

with great care and reverence as she passed
it to her visitor. '' There, take care of it,
child; every drop is worth a gold piece;
but you have been disappointed, and I want
to make thee happy."

The visitor, while professing utter disbelief
in such matters, snatched eagerly at the
little phial, and hid it in her bosom.

'' Now something else," she cried. '' You
are so close and hard to deal with. Do
something more."

^^ What would you have me to do ? " said
the woman. '^ Shall I tell you of your
future ? "

^' Yes, yes," cried the girl.

^^ Sit on the stool then, there in the centre
of the room," said the old woman ; *^ and
whatever you see or hear do not speak or
move, or I would not answer for the consequences
; it might be dumbness, or craziness,
or even death."

Smiling scornfully, to hide a shudder.

Anne Beckley did as she was bid ; and as
she seated herself the old woman closed and
drew a rough curtain across the door, andover
the little window, leaving only a few
silver streaks of light to penetrate; and
then, as there was utter silence as well, her
visitor heard a voice that came apparently
from a great distance say softly : —

'^ Things to come — things of the future —
things of the many years. I see a house in
its bright garden burned up and destroyed,
the blast of powder, and the shrieks of the
wounded ; and I see a church, with a 
coming away, and the face of the
man is hidden, but the garb is that of an
officer, and the face of the maid is that of
Sir Thomas Beckley's child."

The voice ceased, and Mistress Anne,
whose eyes had been tightly closed, opened
them again, and saw that the cottage was
light once more, and that Mother Goodhugh
was by her side.

'^ Whose face was it ? " whispered the girl,
half scornfully, half in awe.

'' The voice spake not," said the woman,
solemnly. '^ Come and see."

Anne Beckley felt a slight shrinking, but
she rose directly, and followed the old woman,
who led her out at the back of the cottage,
plunging directly into the' thick forest,
and leading her by an overgrown track farther
and farther into its depths. Every now
and then the girl had to pause to free her
dress from some briar or thorn which held
her tightly, and for the most part she had to
proceed at a slow walk, stooping the while
to avoid the leaf-laden branches which in
their wealth of summer foliage bowed down
to bar her way.

With intervals of stopping, Anne Beckley
followed her guide for quite an hour, during
which time the old woman had kept on,
evidently following certain marks on trees
which she carefully scanned.

*^I will go no further, mother," cried
Anne, throwing herself on a great mossy
block of stone which overhung a tiny, trickling
stream, and wiping her dewy forehead.


*eyes, you will, dearie," said the old
woman, with a meaning smile. ^' You'd go
further than this to meet your love. You
are hot and tired now. Come down here
and have a drink."

She dragged the branches aside with
tender hand, and lightly bent back the tall
bracken, so as to make a way for the girl,
who rose wearily, and, following the old
woman, found herself in a shady hollow
between the rocks which rose far above her
head, while at her feet lay a clear pool of
cool delicious water, over which she bent,
and was in the very act of dipping in her
hand to fill her soft white palm, and drink,
when she fancied she saw in the mirror -
like surface the old woman's fingers extended

to thrust her in, and in a flash she
seemed to see her object, namely, to murder
her for her money and trinkets.

She started up, but only to see Mother
Goodhugh smiling at her, and, ashamed of
her fears, "she drank, and turned to proceed.
At the same time she felt, though,
how completely she was at her companion's
mercy. No one knew where she had come,
or had seen her enter the cottage ; and now
in the depths of the forest, did the old
woman wish her evil, the thick bushes and
brambles would conceal her body, and the
rapid growth soon hide all signs of footsteps
that might be tracked.

'* Now, lovey," said the old woman, '^ I ^
am going to trust you to have sense to do
as you are bid. You must shut your eyes
tightly, and neither look nor speak till you
hear his voice."

'' Shall I hear it ?" faltered Anne.

*eyes, for sure," cried the old woman.

imperiously. ^' Now close your eyes and
obey me in all I say. If you do not, I
will not answer for what may happen."

'' I — I'll go back now. I am weary," faltered
Anne.

** Too late," cried the old woman, clutching
her hand tightly. '^ Shut your eyes.
There, now not a word."

Anne obeyed to the letter, and for fully
half-an-hour felt herself half dragged up
and down rugged ground, past masses of
stone, and through bushes; and more than
once her fears nearly made her open her
eyes.

At last, when she could bear the suspense
no longer, there was a pause, and Mother
Goodhugh placed her hands upon her
shoulders, pressed her down upon a block
of stone, and whispered in her ear: —

keep your eyes close; do not speak
or move, and you will hear his steps erelong,
and he will speak to thee."

^^In the flesh?" whispered the girl,
hoarsely.

^' How can I tell in or out of the flesh,
but he will come."

^^But who, Mother Goodhugh, who?"
whispered the girl.

'* I know not. It may be Captain Gil : it
may be the gallant at the Pool : all I know
and can tell is that the man who touches
you "

^^ Touches?"

"Yes, touches you, is or will be your
lover. Hush ! Not a word."

Anne half made a spring to rise, but
something seemed to hold her back in her
seat, and with palpitating heart she sat
trembling as she heard a faint rustling noise
indicating that Mother Goodhugh was going
back into the forest ; and, unable at last to
combat the feeling of lonesomeness and
dread, but at the same time unwilling to

break what she felt was a spell by opening
her eyes, she whispered hastily —
** Mother — mother, are you there ? "
She sank back the next moment bedewed
with cold clammy perspiration, for there
seemed to arise a strange low whispering of
many voices, which passed, came back, and
died away in the distance, leaving her in the
midst of a silence that was profound.

VOL. I.

CHAPTER VIII.

HOW THE SPELL BEGAN TO Work.

It was terrible work to sit there in that profound
silence, listening and wondering where
she was ; and at last it was with a feeling
of relief that Anne awoke to the fact that
she must be out in the daylight ; for suddenly
the mournful caw of a rook passing
far overhead fell upon her ear.

Then the place did not seem so solitary,
for a wandering wind swept softly by her,
stirring the leaves which rustled together, as
it cooled her cheek, and soon after there
was the pleasant chirp of a woodland bird,
followed by the familiar little prattle of the
yellow-hammer.

She began now to realise that she must
be in some deep ravine, one of the many
that gashed the primeval forest, and felt
half ready to laugh at her fears, as she
uttered a short cough, which came back
repeated strangely from the opposite wall of
the rock.

Frightened by an echo," she muttered,
sand — oh, what a weak-pated fool am I,
and how I do let that wicked old beldame
play upon me. It is absurd. She has no
such power as she pretends ; and here have I
let her bring me here to sit like a shallow-brained,
love-sick girl, with my eyes shut,
waiting to see my lover. Eyes shut ! How
can I see my love. I'll open them. Nay ;
there may be truth in the spell after all, and,
if there is, why should I spoil it when I
have gone so far. I wonder whether he will
come. How my poor heart beats ! "

'^ Coo — coo — 00 — 00. Coo — coo — coo—
l2

COO — COO — 00," came from somewhere far
below.

^^ That's a lover's cry," she said, half
laughing, to herself ; '' but he will not come
to me in the form of a dove, unless my
heart's set on Jupiter himself. How absurd
I am."

Quite a quarter of an hour passed away,
and still with a wonderful power over her
desires she sat upon the piece of sandrock
waiting for the fulfilment of Mother Good-hugh's
promises.

'* I'll wait no longer," she cried at last,
petulantly. ^' I cannot keep my eyes closed
like this. Where am I ? How am I to find
my way back home ? Oh, what a sorry
idiot am I ! I'll open my eyes at once, and
put an end to this mystery. Hark, what's
that?"

A low doleful wail was heard overhead,
and as she listened it was repeated.

^^ It was a seamen," she whispered, ^^ and
that wicked hag must have brought me
nearer the shore. What's that ? "

She bent down a little, listening, for she
fancied that she heard a voice, but the sound
was not repeated. Then there was a gentle
rustle of a leaf, as if some rabbit had passed
by, but still she kept her eyes closed, with a
lingering faith that the old woman's words
might prove true, and all the while her heart
went throb throb against the flask containing
the love philtre in her bosom.

All silent as the grave once more, and she
trembled as she heard her own voice.

^^I'll count a hundred," she whispered to
herself, '^ and then "

She did not finish her sentence, but began
slowly under her breath to count one, two,
three, four, five, six, and so on right away,
heedless of a faint rustle repeated again and
again, close at hand, and she went on getting
slower and slower in a disappointed manner.

as she reluctantly felt that she must keep
her word, and open her eyes ; and at last it
was,

'' Ninety-seven, ninety-eight, ninety-nine,
one hundred, and — Help, help, help ! Oh ! "

Mistress Anne's voice was smothered, and
she felt herself tightly held by strong hands.
For as she came to the end of her counting
task, and sharply opened her eyes, it was to
gaze at a broad handkerchief held by two
brown hands, drawn tightly across the next
moment and secured behind her head, while
a second stifled her cries as it was tied over
her mouth.

'^ There, my little birdie," said a rough
voice, ^^ that will stop your singing for the
present. If you can't breathe, give a kick,
and well ease it off. There, there, don't
struggle like that, or you'll rumple your
plumage."

^^ Got her, lads ? " said another voice.

'^ Got her, ah ! I see her sitting on the

stone there, fast asleep, crops up the bank,
and off with my handkerchief, and clapped
it over her eyes, while Morgan covered her
mouth*'

'^ What are you going to do with her ? "

'' Help her to old Wat, I think," said the
first voice. '^ He always wants a wife."

Nay, lads ; I shall keep her myself.
Steady, lass ! it's no use to struggle."

Anne Beckley's heart sank within her
breast as she wondered into whose hands
she had fallen, and she trembled so that she
could scarcely stand. The conversation that
ensued the next moment, though, served asa
stimulus, and she waited with bated breath,
and without struggling, as the principal
speaker considered the question, holding her
tightly the while by the arm.

'^ Where be going to take her?" said a
fresh voice.

'^ Oh, up yonder," was the reply.

'^ Nay, nay ; that won't do. The skipper
won't stand these games, my lad."

'' The skipper ! "

Those two words sent a thrill of hope
through the heart of the girl as she asked
herself could it be Captain Gil.

^' Yes, yes ; it must be," she thought
directly after ; and these were some of the
rough, adventurous men of whom she heard
whispers at the Moat — the crew of bold,
daring fellows, who sailed round the world
and braved all dangers, even laughing at
the laws ; for one of Captain Gil's men had
been taken before her father for some
offence, and when the worthy baronet was
about to condemn him to fine and imprisonment,
piercing him in coin as well as time,
he had leaned forward and whispered that
in the justice's ears which had made him
reconsider the case and dismiss the prisoner
in the end.

It was into the hands of these men she had
fallen she felt sure, and should Captain Gil
find out what was done she knew she had
nothing to fear, unless, finding her in his
power, he should carry her off" to his ship
somewhere in the little river and bear her
away to be a rover's bride.

The silly little heart of Anne Beckley,
full as it was of trouble, was ready to make
room for this romantic notion, and she gave
up all thought of resistance as her captors
led her away, merely pointing to the bandage
across her mouth, which half stifled her.

^^ Ah, you shall have that off, my dear, if
you will not squeal," said the same voice ;
and the girl breathed more freely as the
wrapper was taken away.

'^ Now, be careful how you come or you'll

break your pretty neck, and then

Curse it, here be the skipper."

^^ What's this?" cried a well-known voice.

^^Whom have you here? Mistress Anne
Beckley ? "

^^ Oh, Captain Gil, save me — save me,"
cried the girl, stretching out her hands in
the direction of the voice, and nestling close
to him as his strong arm was thrown round
her.

'^ You dogs, how dare you ?" roared Gil,
while, with a sense of indescribable joy.
Mistress Anne held her head against his
broad breast, heard the resonant utterances
which seemed to echo in his chest, and
listened to the firm, strong beating of his
heart. She never for a moment thought of
tearing away the bandage ; but, when she
did raise her fingers, Gil's stout hand prisoned
both of hers and held them tightly,
where they stayed without resistance, nothing
loth.

'' We couldn't help it, captain," said a
voice. ^^ I be coming along here, and I

see my young mistress there seated on yon
stone, with her head bent down, asleep."

'' Mother Goodhugh has spoken truth,
then' whispered Anne to herself ; ^^ I have
not seen, but I have felt, and feel the touch
of my future lord."

^^ Is this truth ?" cried Gil, gazing round
at his men, who one and all shrank from his
angry eye.

'' True, captain ? It be true enough''
was chorused. ^^ Jack Bray then went softly
behind her and clapped a kerchief over her
eyes and mouth, and we were taking her
yonder when you come."

^^ But how came she here ? " exclaimed
Gil, looking round at his men, who stared
at one another, but made no reply till their
leader angrily repeated his question.

*' Don't know, captain," said the man
Anne had first heard speak ; '^ she was
sitting on yonder stone."

^*Was no one near? But that will do.

Tell me one thing," he said aside to one of
his men, ^' where were you coming from ? "

^' We'd been down to the river, captain,
and were on the look-out for Mas' Watched
"

'' That will do," said Gil sternly. '' Now
stand aside."

As he spoke he placed his left arm round
Anne, and took her hand with his right.

^^ Let me lead you back to the path from
which you have strayed. Mistress Beckley,"
he said. ^' You are quite safe now. Nay —
nay, let that bandage rest for awhile. The
sight of these rough seamen here might
startle you afresh," he added, as the late
prisoner raised her hand that was at liberty
to her face.

She lowered it directly with a satisfied
sigh, and, leaning heavily upon her protector's
arm, she suffered him to lead her
down what seemed to be a rugged slope,
and then amidst trees and bushes, and up

one ascent, down another, and all the while
with the bandage upon her eyes, while Gil
looked down at her, half-puzzled, half-amused,
and at times annoyed at the timid,
trusting way in which she seemed to have
thrown herself upon him.

He was debating within himself as to
whether he should ask her how she came to
be where she was found, little thinking that
she had been taken there almost as
thoroughly blindfolded as she had been
when brought away. But Gilbert Carr's
heart told him plainly enough without vanity
that he had been the attraction that had
drawn her thither, and he bit his lip with
vexation as he heard his companion sigh,
and felt her hang more heavily upon his

arm.

Finally he decided that he would say
nothing upon the subject, but trust that she
had made no discoveries, though he could
not help arguing that if she had, and he

gave her offence, he might find her an angry-woman
who would do him a serious ill.

At last by many a devious track he had
taken her to where the lane leading from the
Pool house led through the scattered cottages
of the workers at the furnaces and
foundries towards the Moat, and here Gil
paused.

"That thick bandage must be hot and
comfortless, Mistress Beckley," he said ; '* let
me remove it now."

Oh ! no," she cried quickly, " pray don't
take it away. I feel quite safe with you.
Captain Carr;" and she sighed again, and
laid her other hand upon his.

But you are safe now," he said, smiling,
*' and close to the lane. There is nothing
more to fear. My unmannerly lads shall be
punished for all this."

No, no," she said softly, " don't punish
them — for my sake. Say you will forgive
them. I beg — I entreat."

"If it is your wish, the punishment shall
not take place," he said. " There, let me
remove the kerchief."

Anne would gladly have resisted, for it
was very sweet to be so dependent on Gil
Carr. He had been so gentle and kindly
towards her that her heart was filled to
bursting with hope that she would win him
after all, though her siege had now lasted
for months without avail, and she had been
ready to raise it in favour of the new comer.
Sir Mark.

She felt, though, that she might not be
serving her cause by making any objections,
and, resigning herself to her protector's will,
she suffered him to remove the kerchief, but
uttered a quick cry of pain, as she opened
and then closed her eyes.

'^ My poor girl," he cried, holding her
tightly, as she clung to him, '' are you injured
? Tell me ; what is it ? "

'^ It is nothing," said Anne, faintly; '^ a

sudden pang — the intense light — I shall be
well anon."

It did not occur to Gil that the position
he occupied was a strange one, if seen by a
looker-on, for he was too much concerned
by the apparent suffering of his charge, and,
as her fright had been caused by his
followers, he felt in duty bound to try and
make up for their insolence by his consideration
for her weakness. He stood, then,
supporting her as she held her hands pressed
to her aching eyes, and smiled encouragement
as she at last looked timidly up at him
with a very pitiful expression of countenance,
and ended by catching his hand in
hers in the excess of her gratitude for her
deliverance, and kissing it passionately, as
she burst into a storm of sobs and tears.

^^Why, come, come. Mistress Timidity," he
said, playfully, '' where is your brave little
heart ? One would think I had been some
brave hero of old, who had rescued you from

an angry dragon, instead of a poor sea-captain,
who did nothing but order some
insolent mariners to "

Gil stopped short, his eyes fixed, and a
sense of the awkwardness of his position
coming fully upon him, as at the distance of
some twenty or thirty yards there passed
Mace Cobbe, leading Sir Mark by the hand.

He saw her only for a few moments, but
he knew that Mace had seen him too, and
that Anne Beckley had followed the direction
of his eyes, for he had felt her start,
and a red glow had come upon her cheeks.

In his angry excitement he felt ready to
dash her from him, but his better feelings
prevailed, and he stood with knitted brow
thinking, while Anne felt careless of having
been seen by Sir Mark, since Mace had seen
her too, and reclining in her lover's arms.

VOL. I. M

CHAPTER IX.

HOW MOTHER GOODHUGH PLAYED THE PART OF
SHIMEI OF OLD.

^^ Better, Master Cobbe; I am growing
stronger," said Sir Mark, as he returned to
the Pool-house with his silent companion,
for, after their encounter with Gil and
Mistress Anne, Mace had not spoken a word.

That's well," said the bluff founder.
'' Take a good long walk every day, my lad,
and that will soon give you strength."

'' I will. Master Cobbe, and relieve you of
so untoward a visitor as quickly as I can."

'^ See here, my brave lad," said the
founder, hastily ; ^^ no more of that. I ama
hot-tempered, hasty man, ready to strike

with staff or sword, but I am no niggard.
You are my guest — a honoured, welcome
guest — and when you go from the shelter of
my roof it will be at your own wish, not
mine. For look here. Sir Mark, I am a
rough man, but pretty well to do."

*' But I impose upon you, Master Cobbe."
'^ My dear lad, go on then, impose away.
Tut, tut, what folly ! Did you eat and drink
at my table for ten years, I should never
know or feel the cost. Come along with me,
and see in my shed here we are going to
cast a big culverin. The furnace is ready
for tapping. You, being a man of war, will
like to see."

Sir Mark gave his assent, and, being to all
appearances still very weak, he leaned
heavily upon his stick, and they together
crossed the interval between them and the
large stone shed, from out of whose unglazed
windows a vivid glow of light made itself
plain, even in the afternoon sun.
m2

'^Ah, Mother Goodhugh, you here?"
said the founder, quietly, as the owner of
the name came along using a crutch-stick in
good old witch-like fashion ; and, thumping
it down upon the ground, she stood leaning
upon it with both hands, or raising it and
pointing with it viciously as she began gesticulating
and talking vehemently.

^^ Yes," she cried, *' I be here; and I keep
coming, and watching, and waiting for the
day when the curse shall work. It is planted
and growing, for I water it with my widow's
tears, and, in due time, it will blossom and
shower down seed upon you and your accursed
house. Ha! ha! ha! You think to
escape it," she cried, with her voice increasing
in shrillness, to attract the attention
of the work people ; ^^ but mark my words —
mark it all of you at the windows there —
the great curse will overshadow him and his,
and he will feel it sore, though he hopes to
escape it all."

Nay, good mother' said the founder
mildly, and speaking in a sad, pitying voice,
to the surprise of Sir Mark, who expected to
see him burst into a passion. ^' Nay, nay,
I think to 'scape no share of my troubles,
such as the good Lord shall put upon me and
mine."

'^ The good Lord ! " cried Mother Good-hugh,
shrilly; ^^ the good devil you mean,
who watches over thee and thy Satanic plots
and plans."

'^ Well, there, there, mother," said the
founder, '^ go your way. I have company
here to-day. You can come another time
when I am alone, and curse me till you are
hoarse," he added, with a twinkle of the
eye.

^^ Nay, but I'll curse thee now," said the
old woman excitedly, as her eyes glistened,
her wrinkled cheeks flushed, and her grey
hair seemed to stand right away from her
temples. ^' Let him hear me curse thee for

an ungodly man with all his trade, a maker
of devilish engines, and hellish thunder and
lightning in barrels, in which he shall some
day pass away in a storm of fire and smoke
and brimstone fumes."

^^ Is she mad*' whispered Sir Mark,
plucking the founder by the sleeve.

^^No," said the founder sadly. ^' Poor
soul; but she has had troubles enough to
make her."

'* How dare you pity me, wretch, demon,
hellhound?" cried the old woman. "Murderer
that you are, you shall yet suffer for
your crimes "

'^ Let us walk on," whispered Sir Mark,
as a group of smoke-begrimed workmen
came out and gathered at the windows to
listen.

'* Nay, I'll let her say her say," replied
the founder, grimly. '^ If I go, she will
follow me, and cast cinders at me, like a
she Shine, and I've got a big founding to

make, my lad, which might come out badly
if she stood in the window cursing me all
in heaps."

^^What!'* cried Mother Goodhugh, turning
on Sir Mark. '' You, do you think me
mad? Nay, though I might have been,
through his sins. Hear, young man, and
judge between us. I was a prosperous,
happy woman, with a loving husband and
a dear son, who led a peaceful life till yon
demon deluded both into coming and helping
him in his devilish trade. I knew
how it would be and prophesied to them
that ill would come ; but he fought against
me, and gained them over. First my poor
boy was brought home to me stiff and cold
stiff and cold, alas ! — drowned in the Pool,
and swept beneath yon devil's engine of a
wheel. A year later, and, with a rush and
a whirlwind of fire, the great powder-barn
was swept into the air with a roar of
thunder. I heard it, and came running,

for I knew ill had come, and I was in time
to fall on my knees by the blackened corpse
of my dead husband — scarred, torn, shocking
to behold ; and in my widowed agony
I raised my hands to Heaven to call down
vengeance, and cursed his destroyer as I
curse him now."

Shame on you, Mother Goodhugh,
shame !" cried a voice ; and pale, and with
eyes red with recent weeping, Mace Cobbe
ran forward to throw one arm across her
father's breast, and stand between him and
the old woman, as if to shield him from
her anger, as, advancing with upraised
stick and her eyes flashing with excitement,
she seemed no inapt representative
of a modern sibyl.

*^ Ah, you here, young Jezebel ? " cried

the woman, beside herself now, as she

worked herself into a fierce rage. "Listen,

good people ; listen once more, as I tell

you that the day will come when Jeremiah

Cobbe shall curse the hour when he was
born, when he shall gaze down upon the
blackened corpse of this his miserable
spawn, even as I gazed upon the burned
and fire-scarred body of my dear; and I
tell you that the day shall come when in
his misery and God forgotten despair he
shall hurl himself into yonder Pool, and be
swept down beneath his devilish wheel to betaken
out dead — dead, do you hear? — as
they drew out my boy."

*^ Oh, shame. Mother Goodhugh, shame!"
cried Mace again. ^' Come away, father,
come away."

*^ Nay, child," he said, calmly. ^^I'll face
the storm like a man. It will be the sooner
over."

*^ Never!" cried the old woman, with the
foam gathering on her dry lips, as she rolled
her red and bloodshot eyes. 'i'll pursue
you to your death. Curse you ! curse you !"

*' Oh, shame, old woman," said Sir Mark,
angrily. " Think of your own end, and how
curses come home to roost'*

Ah, yes," cried the old woman, turning
upon him. " I had forgotten you, poor
showy dunghill Tom, in your feathers and
spurs. You are to be caught, I suppose, fora
husband for Miss Jezebel there. But keep
away ; go while your life is safe. There be
death and destruction and misery there.
Flee from the wrath to come, for in wedding
that dressed-up-doll you tie yourself to the
cursed, and may die as well. Hear me,
good people, and judge between us; mark
me that it will all come true."

Shame on you. Mother Goodhugh," cried
Mace, with her pale cheeks flushing ; " and
judge between them, all of you," she said,
addressing the little crowd of workmen and
their wives who had gradually gathered
round. *« You all know how it was an accident

when poor Luke Groodhugh fell into
the Pool, when fishing against my dear
father's orders, and was drowned."

Yes, yes, that be a true word, mistress,"
rose in chorus.

'rand how my dear father grieved when
that sad explosion came which killed poor
Goodhugh, our best workman, through the
folly of one who would smoke."

That be true enough. Yes, it be true.
Mother Goodhugh."

'you know all that," cried Mace, with
her handsome young face lighting up more
and more, ignorant the while of Sir Mark's
admiring gaze. "You know all that," she
repeated, "but you don't know that ever
since that luckless day "

There, there, child, enough said," cried
the founder, as Mother Goodhugh stood
muttering and mouthing in impotent malice
at the speaker, who had robbed her of her
audience for the time.

"Nay, father, dear, but they shall hear
now," cried Mace, speaking with energy, and
her face flushing up with pride. "Judge
between them all of you, when I tell you
that from that dreadful day my father's
hand has always been open to this woman ;
his is the hand that has fed and clothed and
sheltered her, when otherwise she must have
gone forth a wanderer and a beggar upon
the face of the earth."

Tut, tut, child ! " cried the founder ; " be
silent."

Not yet, dear father," cried Mace. "And
for this," she continued, "while he has fed
her with bread, and had his heart sore with
pity for her solitary fate, she has never
ceased to shower down curses on his head."

Yes," cried the old woman, breaking in
again, " gives me bread to smother my
curses," and she shook her stick menacingly,
and I curse again. Give me back my boy
give me back my dear. When he does

that, I will take back my curses and ill-wishing
to myself, and bury them beneath the
earth. Till then they will cling to him ;
and mark me, all, ill will come to this roof.
It is builded on the sandrock," she cried,
pointing to how the house stood in a niche
of the scarped rock, which ran right
behind the building, towering up with the
broom and gorse and purple heather, dotting
the open spaces where the pine and hornbeam
ceased to grow, a pleasant-timbered gabled
house, where it seemed, with its climbing
roses and blushing flowers, that sorrow could
never come — " it is builded on the sandrock,
but it shall be rent asunder, and dissolve inflame,
and smoke, and ruin, and destruction,
and then — then " — she cried hoarsely.

Why then. Mother Goodhugh," said the
founder, ^^ we'll build it up afresh, for there's
stone and timber enough about for a dozen
such houses, and close at hand."

*nay," cried the old woman, "nay," she

croaked, for her voice had gone, and she
spoke now in a hoarse whisper ; " listen, all
of you : the very stones of the ruins will be
cursed, and all the trade, and no man shall
lay hands upon them to build again, lest hebe
accursed himself."

In spite of her brave true heart. Mace felt
a chill strike through her as the old woman
walked hurriedly away, thumping her crutch-stick
on the ground, and stopping to turn
and shake it threateningly at the Pool-house
— even stopping by the gate to spit
towards the door before she went on muttering
and gesticulating, with her grey hood
thrown back on her shoulders, her linen cap
in her hand, and her hair streaming in the
soft summer breeze, which came to the little
crowd standing gazing after her as she went.

'' Poor old girl! " cried the founder, with
his face lighting up once more. become,
lads, the storm's over ; back to work."

The men looked at one another, and walked

away with shaking head and pursed-up lip,
while the women stole off in silence, to gather
together at one of the cottages and talk over
the wise woman's words.

^^Poor souls!" cried the fonder, cheerily ;
^^ they believe her to the bottom of their
hearts. Why, hey, here's Master Peasegood,
to bear me out. I say. Master Peasegood,
that if an old and ugly woman chooses to setup
for a witch, and only curses hard enough,
she'll find plenty to believe in her."

** Ay, and as you say, Master Cobbe, if she
only curse hard enough, and only prophesy,
like David danced, with all his might, some
of the stones are sure to hit the mark. Your
servant, sir; Mace, my pretty flower, how
is it with you ? Bless you, my child, bless
you ! "

This in a thick unctuous voice, as the
speaker, an enormously fat, heavy man, in
rather shabby clerical habiliments, rolled upto
the group, and, taking Mace in his arms,

kissed her roundly on both her cheeks, while,
to Sir Mark's hot indignation and surprise,
the maiden laid her hands upon the parson's
broad breast, and kissed him in return.

I was coming to pay my respects to you
Sir Mark Leslie, I believe."

The knight bowed stiiEy, with his countenance
full of displeasure.

'^ Sir Thomas Beckley told me of your illness,
and begged me to call," continued
Master Peasegood, whose heavy cheeks warbled
as he spoke. '' Aha, that's one of the
privileges of being an old, an ugly, and a
horribly fat man. I may kiss my pretty
little Mace here when and where I will.
Master Cobbe," he continued, as he held and
patted the maiden's soft white little hand,
^4f you do not place the key in these fingers,
and bid our little blossom go fetch me a
tankard of the coolest, brownest, readiest
ale in that rock-hewn cellar of thine, this
man-mountain will lie down in the shade

and faint. Zooks, gentlemen, but the sun is
hot."

He took off his broad-brimmed soft hat,
and wiped his brow as he looked at both in
turn, while Mace went off for the ale.

^^ Ay, it is hot. Master Peasegood; but it
will be hotter in yonder directly. Come and
see the casting."

*not I," said the new comer: '^ I'll go
and sit in the shady room, and hold discourse
with fair little Mace, and the ale. I
shall stay to the next meal, so you need not
hurry," he added, to Sir Mark's disgust.

You're welcome," said the founder.
'^ How is the holy father ? Why didn't you
bring him ? "

*^ Out on the malignant! I've done with
him," cried Master Peasegood, with much
severity. ^' He's all purgatory and absolution
and curse. Ah, talk about cursing !
So Mother Goodhugh has been at work
again."

VOL. I. N

^^ Ay, with all her might."

'^ Hah ! I like being cursed," said the
parson, drawing a long breath. ^^ I've been
cursed more than any man living, sir," he
continued, turning to Sir Mark. '^ Ha, ha,
ha, ha ! see how I flourish upon it. I like
being cursed."

'' But you don't like cursing," said the
founder.

^' Nay, not at all," said the parson. swell,
I'll in to my draught of ale. Go and get
you done, and come and join me," and,
saluting Sir Mark, he, to that gentleman's
great relief, rolled slowly towards the porch,
while the founder led his guest through the
low arched doorway into the furnace-house,
whose interior was now aglow.

Mace awaited her stout visitor in the cool,
shady parlour, with the silver flagon in her
hands, then lifted the lid, and held it out to
him with a smile.

He took it, sniffed the aromatic scent, and

raised it to his lips, with his eyes on Mace,
but set the vessel down again, and took the
maiden's hands.

^' Give me another kiss, child, before I
defile my lips with strong liquor. Hah," he
added, after the salute, ^' that was as fresh as
the touch of a dewy blossom at early morn.
God's blessing be on the man who wins thy
love, my child, and may he make thee a very,
very happy wife. Nay, nay, don't blush,
child," he continued, patting the hand he
still retained. *' I am a confirmed old
bachelor, and shall never wed ; but I hold,
as opposed to Father Brisdone — the devil
take him ! —that there is no purer and no
holier thing in life than the love of a goodman
for a sweet, pure woman, unless it bethe
love of the woman for the man."

^' You do not drink your ale. Master
Peasegood;" said Mace, blushing, and looking
pained.

*nay, my child, that can rest, for now
n2

we are on this topic of love I want to talk
to thee. Come, come, look not so angered
with me. You've grown a beautiful woman,
Mace : but I seem always to be looking at
my pretty, prattling babe, who brought me
flowers every Sabbath day. Ah ! my child,
time flies apace — tempus edax rerum, as
Father Brisdone would say. But hearken
to me, child, I am no father confessor, but
if my little Maybud did not open her sweet
young heart to me 'twould grieve me
sore."

'' Oh, Master Peasegood," cried Mace, en-lacing
her hands, and resting them on his
shoulder, as he seated himself on a chair,
which groaned beneath his weight, '' I have
not a thought that I would keep from thee."

^* I know thou hast not," he said. '^ So
tell me — this courtly spark, has he said
words of love ? "

^^ Nay, Master Peasegood, but he sighs
and gazes at me pensively, and lingers here

as if he wished me to believe he was in
love."

'rand you? What of this little heart?
What think you of his gay clothes and
courtly ways, and smooth manners and
gentle words ? "

I think him a good-looking, pleasant-spoken
gentleman enough," said Mace.

Ah ! that will do," cried the parson,
smiling, as he gazed into the maiden's clear,
bright eyes. '^ That will do, my rosebud ;
not a quiver of the eyelids ; not a blush ;
not a trembling of the lips. Faith, child,
you've set my heart at ease. There, keep
thine own fast locked till the good, true man
shall come and knock, and ask for entrance.
Then, child, open it wide, and shut it, and
lock him in, never to set him free."

Mace nodded and smiled.

'• That's only part of my errand, child ;
the other is about Culverin Carr, our bold

captain. What of him ? Aha ! does that
prick ? "

He held the girl's hand tightly, for she
turned half away, with a pained look in her
face, and the tears rose to her eyes.

'^ Well, and ill," cried Master Peasegood,
shaking his head. *what does it mean,
child? You care for him, I think ? "

'' I hardly know," sighed Mace.

Then you do," said Master Peasegood,
nodding his big head. '' There's no doubt
about such matters, child. But tell me all —
you may trust me — does he know you like
him ? "

Oh, yes," cried Mace, ' and my father
has forbidden him to come to the house."

Then he has good reason for it. Jeremiah
Cobbe is hot, passionate, and excited
enough to carry him to perdition, but he is
just. Now, look here, Mace, do you think
Captain Gil is the true, good man who
should be locked up in your little heart ? "

^^ Have —have you ill news of him ? " faltered
Mace, who a few hours before would
have scornfully rebutted any charge against
the choice of her heart.

*' I am no tale-bearer, child," said the
parson, sternly. " My mission is to makepeace,
not war. Tell me, have you doubted
friend Gil's truth?"

For answer Mace sank upon her knees,
and covered her face with her hands.

'' Poor child, poor child ! " muttered the
parson, as he laid his hand upon her glossy
hair. The next instant she had started with
him to her feet, for there was a sharp crash
as of some explosion, and, after a moment's
pause, a bellowing, rumbling roar, which
shook the building to its foundations, and
then seemed to roll into the distance and
die away.

CHAPTER X.

HOW TOM CROFTLY TOOK HIS CHASTISEMENT.

Sir Mark felt in anything but the best of
tempers upon finding how thoroughly at home
the stout parson of Roehurst was at the Pool-house.
He had taken a dislike to him from
the first, and the idea of his sharing the
table with them at the next meal filled him
with disgust.

However, with all a courtier's skill in
hiding his own feelings, he smiled in reply
to the founder's remarks, and tried to interest
himself in the process before him.

It needed little effort, for, as a soldier, he
could readily appreciate the shape and make
of a good piece of artillery; and, setting

aside all thought of Mace for the time being,
he eagerly scanned the interior of the fur-warehouse.


^'What do you mean by all this, Master
Cobbe?" he said, pleasantly. ^^I am sent
down here to reprimand you, and give an
ample report on what I see, and, after the
first sharp encounter, I find you treat me as
the best of friends. You give me your
daughter's society ; you talk to me of your
works ; and now you are about to show me
the secrets of your trade."

'^ And welcome," cried the founder, blufflj^.
^'See all, learn all, and tell all, for I have
nought to conceal. My powder is good, and
my guns are good ; but that is from skill, of
which no one can rob me, or take away.
Any man can make powder or cast cannon,
but few can do these things well. There,
my lad, once for all, don't you shrink from
making what report you will. You will not

offend me. But come, we are about to
begin."

Sir Mark glanced round at the bright
glow which lit up the whole place, and then
at the furnace-mouth, from whose chinks a
dazzling white light shone out, seeming to
cut the darkness with long, thin rays, which
struck the wall and the smoke-blackened,
oaken beams that supported the roof, while
it illumined the floor sufficiently to enable
the visitor to see the dim figures of a couple
of men, who were busy stooping over something
in the middle of the building.

This he felt was the mould, and into it he
knew that ere long the furnace-door would
be vomiting the molten metal in a dazzling
state, so bright that his eyes would hardly
be able to bear the glare. He did not speak,
for the roar made by the vast bellows, whose
air was burning away the impurities of the
iron, was almost deafening, and he could see

that a good deal of the work was carried on
by signs.

** A good time for a tete-a4ete with little
Mace," he muttered, as he saw the fonder
slip off his doublet and roll the linen shirt
up over his muscular arms. Then the knight
took the place pointed out to him as one
likely to be out of harm's way, and watched
with eager interest the busy scene around.

Now the furnace was being urged to
greater heat, and the vivid flames and sparks
rushed out into the sunshine ; then the
founder was seen to stand right in the intense
glare, and evidently throw in some ingredient
upon the molten metal which seemed
to seethe and bubble, and rise in the furnace
as if about to overflow, while dazzling flames
of violet, orange, and silver-white danced
over the molten mass, and formed, with the
silvery scintillations, a scene that riveted
the courtier's eye.

As he gazed upon the weird-looking figures.

half glowing in the light, half hidden in the
darkness, or others whose heads or bodies
alone were seen in the strong glow of the
furnaces, there was an unreality in the scene
that sent a thrill through him.

^^ I would that big-tongued Jamie were
here," he muttered, ^^ coming upon it all by-night
and gazing in at yon window; he'd
think he had come upon a demon's feast, and
that the saints of Pandemonium were cooking
hell-broth for all the witches and wizards
of the land."

A shout from the founder roused him from
his musings, and he shaded his eyes with his
hands, and watched the furnace, whose light
now grew more silvery every moment, and
whose fluttering flames seemed to be more full
of wondrous dyes. The light was sharper and
more defined, and in the darkness below, where
there were tiny points of light, shewing that
there were crevices in the firebrands. Sir Mark
could make out the figure of the founder

standing with a great iron bar in his
hands.

Suddenly a door was opened, and the
founder was seen to be plunging the long
bar into the molten metal, when once more
vivid beams of light flashed out, mingled
with coruscations of sparks, which darted
here and there in fierce battle as if contending
together, exploding with a loud crackling
noise as they met.

Then once more the door was shut, and
Sir Mark closed his eyes, which ached with
the glare. The moment after he opened
them to gaze upon the weird scene, as one
after the other there came a series of loud
strokes as of iron upon iron, and then from
a bright star in the middle of the darkness,
low down near the floor, a stream of pure
liquid silver seemed to run, passing rapidly
along the floor and suddenly disappearing.

Quicker and quicker it seemed to gush
out, with dazzling flames dancing over it as

it sped along. The whole building now was
glorious with light, and seemed transformed;
beams, rugged stone walls, flooring, all were
glistening as if suddenly coated with silver
and gold ; and as, with parted lips and eager
eyes, the founder's guest gazed upon the
scene, and thought of how glorious was a
cannon's birth, there was a sudden crash as
if heaven and earth had come together ; he
was struck backwards, hurled as it were
against the wall behind, and then, finding
himself close to a window-opening, half
fell, half dropped out into the open air to
stagger away amidst the debris of broken
tiles and wood that had fallen around.

He knew he was not hurt, but he felt
confused and dazed as men from various
parts ran up, women from the distant cottages
came shrieking, and the occupants of
the furnace-house, now roofless and smoking,
staggered out panting and blackened,
to look eagerly round at one another.

*^ My father — where is my father?" cried
Mace, running up wild-eyed and pale.

There was no reply, and, without a moment's
hesitation, she ran over the broken
fragments of stone and wood lying about,
to the arched door, and stepped in amidst
the blinding smoke and reeking steam.

stop! oh, stop," cried Sir Mark. 'good
heavens, men, she will lose her life."

Roused by his words, a couple of the men
ran after the excited girl, but only reached
the door as the founder came out looking
blackened and half stunned, leaning upon
his daughter's arm.

** I can't see any one there," he cried, as
soon as he was out, and he began looking
round at his men. ^^ Are you all here, my
lads?"

The men gazed at one another as if for
the first time it had occurred to them that
they ought to count their number, and at

last, as Master Peasegood repeated the
question, out of breath with his exertions
to get there, some one exclaimed :

'^ We be all here, Master."

^^Then help me to a flagon of ale. Mace,"
cried the founder.

But father, dear, you are hurt ; you are
burned. Quick, some one, help get him to
the house."

'^ Nay, nay, child, I'm not much hurt,
and, as no one else is, loose my arm. Where's
that Tom Croftly ?"

'^ Here I be, master," said a gruff voice,
and a grim, half-naked man, with the chest
of a giant, came trembling forward, wiping
the reek and sweat from his brow.

^^You clumsy, bull-headed fool," roared
the founder, dashing at him and delivering
so sturdy a blow from his stalwart arm that
the man staggered back, tried to recover
himself, and then fell heavily, to sit up

slowly the next moment, applying his hand
to his cut forehead and gazing meditatively
at the blood.

^' You bennet going to stand that, Tom
Croftly," whispered one who was bending
over him. '' Get up and poor him well, if
you bennet a coward."

The countryman gazed in Abel Churr's
foxy eyes, and shook his head.

^^Nay, nay, the master's right enough,
though he did hit hard. I ought to ha'
looked after the trade."

^^ What are you doing there, Abel Churr?"
cried the profounder. '^ Here, Mace, lass,
fetch me that ale."

'what am I doing here, Mas' Cobbe?"
said the adder-hunter, as Mace ran off,
satisfied now that her father was not hurt.
'' I heard the blowing up, and I knew someone
would be burned, so I came. You'll
want a bit of adder's fat for them burns,
Mas' Cobbe."

VOL. I. O

Out with thy trash ! " cried the founder,
angrily. '' Here, you Tom Croftly, rise
up and I'll smite you down again."

The great fellow began to rise slowly,
with the obedience of a dog, but the parson
interposed : —

^^Nay, nay, Master Cobbe ; thou hast done
enough beating."

^^ The master's quite right," said the
countryman ; *' I ought to have looked after
the trade."

^' Right! Yes, you dolt!" cried Cobbe,
angrily. '^ Have I not told you all a hundred
times that every mould must be quite dry ?
and here you let me run the iron into one
that must be half full of water."

'' I see to it all two hours ago, master,"
said the countryman ; ^^ and it was bravely
dry, but I ought to have looked again, only
somehow Mother Groodhugh coming put it
out of my head."

'sand what did Mother Goodhugh come
to you for ? " said the founder, angrily.

^* She come to help me to something for
my little one who's a bit weak this last
month, master."

If you want to see Mother Goodhugh,
you go to her," cried the founder. ^^But
for a chance, half of us might be lying stiff
and cold — nay, parson, stiff and hot, roasted
and scalded, and cooked by the iron and
steam. There, get to work and clear up,
and we must have all put to rights again.
Tom Croftly, you've put a hundred good
pounds out of my pouch through not seeing
to that mould."

The great countryman rose up now, nodding
and shaking his head, while his master
turned to his guest.

^^I never thought any more about you,
Sir Mark," he said. '^ Not hurt, I hope," he
continued, taking the flagon from Mace, and
o2

drawing up the lid with a clink ; sphere, take
a draught of this."

'^ More frightened than hurt," said Sir
Mark, taking the flagon, bowing to Mace,
and raising it to his lips.

'^ It was startling," said the founder,
grimly. '' I say, squire, you can put that
in the report to His Majesty. Ha, ha, ha ! "
he continued, after a pull at the ale. '^ If he
had been here he'd have thought all the
witches in Christendom had come about

his ears, and here's Mother Goodhugh

again."

There was a buzz in the little crowd, as
the old woman came near to climb upon a
heap of furnace-cinder, and stand pointing
to the disrobed shed, mouthing and grinning
maliciously.

'' Cursed," she cried; '' cursed, all cursed.
Bide and rest, all of you, and see how all I
say will be fulfilled. Ha, ha, ha ! How the
wicked fall!"

^*Nay, they don't," cried the founder, ^^or
thou'd'st come down off that furnace-glass.
Get thee home for a foul venom-spitting
toad," he added, angrily. '' Come, Mace;
come. Sir Mark, I can't contain myself today
if she begins to play Shine and throw
her stones."

As he spoke, he took his daughter's hand,
and walked away, leaving Mother Goodhugh
gesticulating, talking to the work people, and
prophesying evil against the house of Cobbe.

Master Peasegood stood listening to her
for a few moments, and then turned to the
knight.

*ras well try to stop a running stream,
sir," he said, quietly. ^^ If I dam it in one
place it will break out elsewhere. She must
run until she's dry:" and he followed the
founder into the house.

CHAPTER XI.

HOW GIL SIGNALLED IN VAIN*

Gil Carr proved to be a sorry companion
to fair, weak, amorous Mistress Anne after
the encounter with Mace Coble; but it
troubled the maiden very little, for she was
in a kind of ecstasy. She had gone, half
doubting, to Mother Goodhugh, and the old
dame's teachings had proved a great success.
For long enough her heart had been set on
bringing the captain to her feet, for there
was something romantic and dashing in his
career. To her he was a perfect hero of
romance, and she dwelt in her privacy upon
his exploits, of which she had often heard.
Then her jealous torments had been unbearable

; and half in despair, half in harmony
with her superstitious nature, she had had
resort to the wise woman, and ended by
abusing her for her want of success.

The coming of Sir Mark had turned her
thoughts into a different channel, and she
felt ready to oust Gil Carr from her heart.
Then to her dismay she found even him
gradually being drawn beneath Mace's influence
; but now all had turned in her favour :
Gil had wooed her, held her in his arms, and,
better still, been seen in this position, while
Mace was with Sir Mark.

'' She may have him and welcome," cried
Anne, with her old passion for Gil reviving
moment by moment, as she felt now sure of
gaining the dearest object of her heart. It
was to her, then, nothing that Gil seemed
cold and distant when he parted from her
near her father's house, that must needs be
she felt as she warmly pressed his hand ; and
then with cheeks flushed with hope, and joy

in her heart, she hurried home full of faith
in Mother Goodhugh, and ready again to
seek her aid.

Gil was in a very different frame of mind ashe
strode away, and had not gone far before
he saw before him the broad proportions of
Parson Peasegood, whom he remembered
now to have seen crossing one of the fields
as he was walking with Mistress Anne.

^'•' Ah, Master Peasegood," he cried, glad of
something to divert his thoughts for the time
being. sewell met. Here is what I promised
you." As he spoke he took from his
pocket a couple of short clay pipes, and a
little linen bag. ^' Use them with care, and
don't become tobacco's slave."

^^ I thank you, captain," said the stout
parson. '^ I will become no slave, but since
his Majesty has written so much about the
Indian weed it has begotten an itching in
my sinful soul to know what it is like."

^^ I see," said Gil, smiling. '^ Well, that

is Indian weed from Virginia. Shred it up
fine with your knife, press it into the pipe,
and then hold to it a Hight, and draw the
smoke through thy lips, swallow it if thou
canst, and then drive it forth through thy
nostrils."

'^ Hold there ! " said the parson, with his
eyes twinkling. ^^ I've watched it all, my
good lad. I've seen Master Wat Kilby
smoking away like one of friend Cobbe's
furnace-chimneys, and I've seen Master
Cobbe himself lie back in his chair and fume
and dream, and I would fain have tried
myself, for how can I condemn the sin with
a good conscience if I do not know how evil
it may be ? "

'^ True, sir," said Gil, laughing; '^ and we
all have our weak points."

'^ Even to playing fast and loose with
ladies' hearts. Captain Gil," said the parson,
with a peculiar look.

Gil's eyes flashed as he turned sharply

round and faced his companion, who was
about to lay one of his fat hands upon his
arm ; but the young man felt so irritable and
unfit to listen to the other's words that he
drew back, ran up the bank, and plunged at
once into the forest, crashing through the
undergrowth until he struck a faint track,
and then winding in and out through the
dark arcades for a good hour till he reached
a deep ravine, down whose bottom he made
his way, along the border of a little stream
which trickled over the huge masses of sandstone
from pool to pool, each of which held
its half-score of trout ready to dart beneath
the overhanging stones and under the roots
of trees, to their little havens of refuge, till
the interrupter of their solitude had passed.

After an hour's walking he came to a spot
where the stream widened out a little, and
he gave a nod of satisfaction as, fifty yards
in front, he saw the tall gaunt form of Wat
Kilby wading in the pools, and stooping

down from time to time beneath the overhanging
stony banks to thrust in his hand,
and more than once retire it with a glistening
speckled trout, which he thrust into a satchel
hanging beneath his arm.

The old fellow straightened his back and
nodded, as the captain came up to seat himself
upon a stone.

^' Well, skipper," said Wat, counting the
trout through the canvas of his wallet.

'' Well," said the other. ^^ I am afraid
some folk have found out the store."

'^ Not they," growled the old fellow.
show could they?"

'^ I went ujD awhile ago, and saw half-a-dozen
of the men with a lady whom they
had found sitting on a stone in the narrows."

Yes, I know," said Wat.

^^ You know?"

^^ Yes ; I saw Mother Goodhugh take her
up there with her eyes shut, and leave heron
the stone."

You saw her ? "

^^ To be sure," growled the old fellow ;
'' and I watched her till the lads come and
took her, and you ran up."

^^ And you didn't interfere ? "

'^ There was nothing to interfere about,
skipper, and I thought it best for her to be
frightened. Keep her from going again."

'^ Did she go up higher ? "

^^ Not a step."

^' Nor Mother Goodhugh ? "

Not half a step."

Why did she bring her there ? "

'^ Hocus pocus. To scare her, to make
her mutter charms or something. It was the
out-of-the-way est, ugliest place the old
woman knew, so she took her there."

'^ Do you think that's the case ? "

^' To be sure. Mind you, I shouldn't be
surprised if Mother Goodhugh did get to
know about it, either hunting herself or

through that long, lanky, lizards fellow,
Abel Churr."

'' If Abel Churr did find out, and telltales,
I'd hang him to the yardarm of our
ship."

'^ And bless the world by so doing," said
Wat, grimly. '' Twenty-one," he added,
softly.

^^ What's twenty-one ? " said Gil, sharply.
One-ands twenty trout," replied Wat,
who had finished his counting.

'* Hang your trout ! " cried Gil, impatiently.
'' No ; hang Abel Churr," said Wat; ^^for
he's a lazy, sneaking, mischief-loving reptile.
I'd like to put the rope around his neck."

*' Now go," said Gil, sharply. ^^ See the

lads and get them together. We'll have

those stores up to-night*"

'' The flour and all ? "

^^ Everything. The sooner it is under

cover the better. You can land all by the

beeches at once, and to-night we'll get it
up."

"• What tune shall we begin ? "

'^ Leave the river at twelve. It will be
two before we get all to the store, and we
can be back soon after three."

Wat nodded, and turned upon his heel ;
while Gil sat down beneath a shady tree,
where he dreamily went over his position
with respect to Mace, till evening was giving
place to night, when he made his way back
towards the foundry.

As he rose and left the stone where he had
been sitting thinking so long, there was a
slight rustle close at hand, such as might
have been made by a snake or a lizard ; but
it was caused by no reptile, for a human
head rose slowly from out a clump of bracken,
and, after waiting patiently and listening
with all the caution of some wild animal,
the head was lowered again. A low
rustling noise followed, the grass and ferns

quivering as something passed beneath them,
and the track by which the owner of the
head was slowly creeping away could be
traced along the side of the ravine in the
dim light, as if some hare or fox were
cautiously working its way.

Quite half-a-mile was passed over in this
wild-animal fashion before the bushes were
parted, and Abel Churr rose up with a grim
satisfied smile upon his face, to walk slowly
away, rubbing his hands together, and
evidently in high glee with something upon
his mind.

Meanwhile, after waiting till the lights in
the Pool-house began to go out one by one,
Gil betook himself to his old tactics with the
signal-sparks, for he argued that, after the
serious result of Master Cobbe's last hindrance
to his coming, the founder would try
traps no more.

The night was again close and heavy, and
he had no difficulty in obtaining four glowworms,

whose bright tails shed their liquid
golden light, as he carefully raised them,
bore them to the bank, and placed them
diamond-wise, as of old. Then going cautiously
to the edge of the river, he saw the
bridge was in its place ; crossed, listened, found
all perfectly still, and went on to the open
space beneath the projecting gable where
Mace's window looked out from its clustering
roses.

The light was out and the casement
closed, and, though he waited, she made no
sign.

To have called to her or whistled would
have been to give notice of his presence to
the founder, who might in his choler open a
window and fire upon him. He did, however,
venture to throw up a few tiny pebbles,
which rattled loudly upon the glass, but that
was all.

There was still no reply, not that Mace
had not seen the glowworms nor heard the

other signals, but she felt that she could not
respond to him that night. Her heart was
sore within her, and, think of what she
would, there ever before her was the little
scene in the lane, with Mistress Anne leaning
so lovingly upon Gil, and in spite of all
that had passed — words, protestations, and
the like — there was always the feeling upon
her that Gil must have spoken tender words
to Anne Beckley, or she would never have
behaved to him as she did.

Then came other, older troubles, the
thoughts of Mother Goodhugh and her
curses on her father's trade — the trade that
gave her many an aching heart — for living
in that sylvan home it seemed so terrible
and sad that all her father's works should
be given to that one aim, the making of
weapons of war, and the powder that should
be used therein. Great pieces of artillery
cast and finished with such care — the black
shiny grains of powder, and for what ?

VOL. I. P

Solely to crush out life, to wage war, with
misery, suffering, and pain. It seemed so
terrible, and strange, and wrong, that those
she loved should treat this trade so lightly,
and readily distribute all that could be
made.

Sweet Mace sighed, for her spirits were
low indeed, and the thoughts that had
haunted her these many years, even from
childhood, came stronger than ever. Death,
shadowy death, seemed to follow all her
father's works, so that she asked herself was
she not guilty in being there a participator
as it were in all her father's acts, and
whether she ought not to protest against
his trade, and pray him to change his
forges to the furtherance of a more peaceful
end?

Close upon a couple of hours passed away,
during which time Mace's heart went out to
her lover, for she could not control it ; but
she herself sat silently sobbing in the corner

of her room behind the snowy window curtains,
whence she could dimly see the figure
of Gil gazing up, the misty starry light of the
summer night making it just visible, till
tired out and heart-sick she saw it gradually
melt away as he went back across the bridge
to keep the appointment arranged with Wat
Kilby.

p2

CHAPTER XII.

HOW MASTER PEASEGOOD ENTERTAINED HIS
FRIEND.

Master Joseph Peasegood's little parsonage
was a humble quiet spot, and accorded well
with the moderate income he received as
clerk of Roehurst. There were four rooms,
and the roof was thatched over the bedchamber
casements, which looked like two
bright eyes peering from beneath a pair of
overhanging brows. There was a pretty
garden, in which the parson often worked,
sheltered from the lane by a thick hedge,
beneath which was his favourite seat, where
he sat and read, with a rustic table before
him, and a cherry-tree overhead to shade

him from the sun. It was a noble cherry-tree,
that bore the blackest and juiciest of
fruit, though the parson never ate it,
the birds taking all the trouble off his
hands.

Master Peasegood was standing at his
door, looking very red and warm, for he
had been having a verbal encounter with
Mistress Hilberry, his thin acid housekeeper
and general servant in one.

It began in this wise, the lady being,
according to her own account, the most
humble and presuming of women, but all
the same taking upon herself to say things
that a less presuming person would not
have dared.

I don't say anything master," she had
exclaimed sharply, '^ because it would be
impertinence in me, but I can't help thinking
that Sir Thomas and Master Cobbe, and
all the principal people, will be annoyed to
see you back-sliding in this way."

*^ Tut — tut — thou silly woman," said the
parson. ^^ Father Brisdone is a good and
worthy man, and I may convert him to the
right faith."

'' Mind he does not convert thee, master,"
said the housekeeper. ^' These priests are as
cunning as old sin. Why, I know on good
authority that he's made very welcome at
the Pool-house, and if they don't mind he'll
carry 'em all to Rome."

'* Not this hot weather, poor things, I
hope," said Master Peasegood. ^'It's warm
enough here; I don't know what it would
be there."

Much hotter, I know," said the woman,
meaningly, as she went on spreading the
table with the requisites for a meal — cold
pink bacon, a tempting loaf, rich yellow
butter, and a couple of ale-horns, with other
requisites for the evening repast.

Master Peasegood had an angry reply
upon his lips, but he wiped it off with his

handkerchief, and walked to the window to
see if his expected guest was on the way,
while Mistress Hilberry went on talking.

*' They've seen the lights again, Master
Peasegood."

^^Tut, woman: fie on thee! How can
you believe such things."

'^ Because I've seen them myself , sir," said
the woman, tartly. ^' Strange ungodly
lights dancing up and down, and moving
through the forest, and Mistress Croftly and
others have seen them since."

^^ Marshy exhalations, luminous vapours,
terrestrial lamps, Mistress Hilberry."

'^ I daresay they be, sir," said the woman
with asperity. '' It don't matter to me what
you call them, but they're spirits, and justa
year ago, about this time, Martin Lee was
struck down by one of them with a noise
like thunder. He was an ailing man for a
twelvemonth after, shivering regularly at

times when he should have been sound and
well."

^' Yes, I dare say," said Master Pease-good.
^^ Hah ! here he is."

He waddled down to the garden-gate, to
open it for a thin, pale, grey man in a priest's
cassock, who grasped his hand warmly, and
then with a scared, hunted look in his eye,
which made him glance uneasily around, as
if in search of danger, he accompanied
Master Peasegood into the parlour, where
Mistress Hilberry received them with a portentous
sniff.

^^ Peace be with thee, my daughter," the
new-comer said, softly ; but Mistress Mulberry
seemed disposed to declare war, for
she snorted, turned on her heel, and left the
room with a good deal of rustling and noise.

The visitor looked pained as his eyes
sought those of his host in an inquiring
way.

^^ Only the weaker vessel," said Master
Peasegood, laughing. '^ Never heed her,
Father Francis. She tells me thou wilt
convert me, and I tell her I am going to
convert thee. I'm glad to see you; but,
ah ! " he cried, holding up a warning finger,
*^ thou hast been fasting over much. Quelling
the spirit in us is one thing, making
the body weak and sick another. Sit down,
man, and fall to. We'll have a long and
cosy evening, and discuss politics and the
matters of the world."

He placed a chair for his guest, smiling
pleasantly upon him the while, and then a
goodly jug of ale being brought in by Mistress
Hilberry, the two clerical friends made
a hearty meal, after Father Brisdone had
blessed the food.

I ought not to eat this after your blessing,"
said Master Peasegood, laughing, ^' but
I shall. And now, good Father Francis,
before we shelve religious matters for the

evening, tell me outright, now, have you
been trying to win over my little woman
yonder at the Pool ? "

For answer. Father Francis held out his
hand.

'^ Nor the Captain?"

Nay, not a word has passed my lips to
him on the subject of religion."

^^ Then it is agreed that there is to be a
good and honest truce between us. Neither
one nor the other is to play wolf round his
neighbour's sheepfold."

'' Brother Joseph," said the guest, rising,
taking a step forward, and laying his hands
upon the other's broad shoulder, '' shame has
kept me silent heretofore. Now, dear friend,
I will confess."

'' Forbidden subject," said Master Pease-good.


Nay, nay, it is not. Your suspicions
were right. I was starving when you came
to me, and the hastings were enforced. I

could not dig, to beg I was ashamed. The
few poor people of my faith I could not
trouble ; and it had come to this, that I
felt ready to lie down and die in the land
where once our Church was wealthy, when I
found that the age of miracles was, after all,
not passed, for the last man of whom I could
expect such a service brought me aid."

^' Bah, stuff ! Sit down, man, and have
some more bread and some of that good
yellow butter. You'd have done as much
for me;" and, half forcing his visitor into a
chair, the host watched until he had made
a hearty meal. "No more? Well, then,
Mistress Hilberry shall clear away, and then
I have a surprise for thee."

Going to the door, and summoning the
housekeeper, that lady quickly cleared the
table, a lamp was lit, another jug of ale was
placed upon the board, and then, as soon as
they were alone. Master Joseph Peasegood
went to an old-fashioned cupboard, and tenderly

taking out the pipes and bag of tobacco
he had received from Gil, he placed them on
the table with a smile.

^' Pipes ? tobacco ? " exclaimed Father
Brisdone, drawing back his heavy chair.

^' Yes ; do they frighten thee ? " said
Master Peasegood.

"You do not mean to smoke'' said
Father Brisdone, earnestly.

^' I mean for both of us to smoke," said
Master Peasegood.

'^ Would it not be a sin?"
'' Nay, I think not ; though our Solomon
Jamie says it is. But how can we know
whether we ought to forbid or no if we have
not proved smoking to be a sin ? "

A fallacious argument, Brother Joseph,"
said the father, smiling. " We ought, then,
to rob and slay and covet, to try whether
they are sins before we condemn ? "

*' Nay," said Master Peasegood, taking up
a pipe, and beginning to open the little linen

bag of weed, taking some out, and carefully
shredding it with a knife. " Those have all
been proved to be sins. This has not."

If you wish, I will try it, then," said the
father; and, as the tobacco was passed to
him, he filled the little pipe before him, took
the light provided by his friend, held it to
the bowl, and puffed, while Master Joseph
Peasegood did the same.

One little pipeful was smoked in silence,
the ashes tapped from the bowl, and they
smoked another pipeful, staring stolidly one
at the other, as they sat on opposite sides of
the table, till they had done, when there was
a pause.

*what do you think of it?" said Master
Peasegood, who, after several paroxysms of
coughing, had refrained from trying to swallow
the smoke, and contented himself with
taking it into his mouth, and puffing it out.

'' I feel more sick than sinful," said the
father, quietly. '' And you ? "

'' I have a peculiar tightness of the brain,
and a tendency to fancy I am as thin as
thee, instead of as fat as I. Father Bris-done,
in my present state, I think the greatest
sin I should commit would be to go to my
couch. Wilt try another pipe?"

'' Nay," said Father Brisdone, " I think
two will suffice. King James must have felt
like I when he wrote his work on this wondrous
weed. It strikes me as strange that
man should care to burn this herb when it is
so medical in its effects."

'* Ay, it is," said Master Peasegood. '* It
reminds me of my sensations when I was
once prevailed upon by Dame — nay, she
was Mistress Beckley then, for Sir Thomas
had not paid a thousand pounds for his title
by Mistress Beckley to drink of a wonderful
decoction of hers, made of sundry simples
— agrimony, rue, marshalled, and
dandelion. It has always been my custom
to drink heartily, Father Brisdone, so I

drank lustily from the silver mug in which
it was placed. Poor mug, it was an insult
to the silver to put such villainous stuff
therein. The very swine would have turned
up their noses and screwed their tails ; and
I forsooth, for good manners' sake, gulped
it down. Here, father, drink some of this
honest ale, and let us take the taste of the
Indian weed from our lips."

He passed the big mug to his friend, and
he drank and returned it to Master Pease-good,
who quaffed most heartily ; and then,
with doleful visages, the two friends sat and
gazed in each other's eyes.

'^ I don't feel any better. Father Bris-done,"
said Master Peasegood at last. '' If
this be a sin, this smoking, it carries its own
punishment. Let us out into the open air.'-

*eyes," said his visitor, ^*the fresh night
wind may revive us. But where got you this
tobacco, did you say ? "

^^ From Captain Gil," replied Master

Peasegood; and then, as they strolled out
of the gate into the soft night-air, he continued,
'^ My mind misgives me about that
lad, father. What are we to do about
him ? "

'^ Warn him if he be in the way of ill,
which I hope is not the case, for he is a
brave, true lad, ready to help one of my
faith in trouble. Many is the fugitive he
has taken across to peace and safety in his
ship."

'^ For which, were it known, he would
be most surely hanged or shot."

Father Brisdone sighed.

^^ It is strange," he said, '^ that we
should become such friends, Master Pease-good."


^^ Ay, it is strange," said the other ; and
feeling refreshed by the night-air they
walked softly up and down conversing upon
the political state of the country, the coming
of King James's messenger, and his

stay at the Pool-house, till suddenly Master
Peasegood drew his companion's attention to
a sound.

They were standing in a narrow path,
running at right angles from a well-marked
track ; and as Master Peasegood spoke there
was the snort of a horse and the rattle of
harness, followed by much trampling ; and,
going a little forward, they could dimly
see the figures of armed men by the light
of lanterns which two of the horses carried
at their head-stalls.

Why, they are loaded with something,
father," said the stout clerk. " And,
good ''

He was going to say ^^ gracious," but the
words were checked upon his lips as a
couple of heavy blankets were thrown over
his and Father Brisdone's heads and they
were dragged heavily to the ground.

VOL. I.

CHAPTER XIII.

HOW THE FOREST SPIRITS PAID THEIR DEBTS.

At the appointed time, Captain Gil made
his way to where, some twenty strong, his
crew were sitting and standing beneath a
wide-spreading tree, with some forty horses
grouped around, one and all heavily laden
with sacks, barrels slung on either side,
heavy boxes, and rolls of sailcloth. Some
of the men were smoking, some minding the
horses, while others lolled about, half-asleep,
upon the ground.

If by chance any of the few rustic people,
whose houses were scattered here and there,
could have seen them in the shadow of the

trees, they might very well have been excused
for taking them for occupants of some
nether region ; while those whose horses did
duty for the night, if they found them wet
and weary, said nothing, but took it all asa
matter of course, feeling as they did sure
of encountering trouble if they made a stir,
and being satisfied that their silence would
be paid for in some indirect manner.

Farmer GoodselPs team was taken several
times over ; and one morning he went into
the stables to find the horses so weary and
dirty that he swore he would stand it no
longer, and fetched his wife to see.

She held up her hands and opened her
eyes wide.

^^ It be witchcraft, Large," she exclaimed.

*' Nay — nay, girl," he cried ; *' it be somebody
else's craft, and what's that on the
bin?"

Mrs. Farmer Goodsell took up a packet,
q2

opened, looked at it, and her eyes brightened
as she ran to the light.

As fine a bit of silk as I ever see," she
said, with sparkling eyes ; " and look, what's
this?"

'' Indian weed, my lass — tobacco," said
the farmer, with his face growing smooth.
Hi ! Harry, feed these horses and give
them a rub down."

This was a sample of the treatment the
owners received, so as the years glided on
it grew to be the custom to say nothing whatever
when horses were taken, for a present
of some kind was certain to follow — strangely-shaped
flasks of strong waters, pieces of velvet
from Italy, curious bits of silk from India and
China ; and, for the use of horses taken from
the Pool-house, Master Cobbe, just when he
had rather angrily told his daughter that he
should keep the stable locked, found a heavy
bale in the porch one morning, wet with

dew, and on opening it he found himself the
possessor of a soft carpet from the land of
the Turk.

It was well known that some kind of secret
business was carried on, but the more sage
people shut their eyes and said nothing, while
the weak talked of witches and the like, and
laid the strange proceedings at Mother Good-hugh's
door. For the greater the ignorance,
the deeper the love of the mysterious and
weird; and hence, with a monarch on the
throne whose wisdom was developing itself in
literary crusades against the sin of spiritual
commerce, it was no wonder that when distorted
verbal versions of the British Solomon's
utterances reached Eoehurst they should tend
to strengthen the simple-minded people's
belief in witchcraft and wise-womanly, evil
spirits, and visions of the night.

The appearance of Gil amongst the resting
men acted like magic. A few short orders,
and without a word a couple of lanterns were

lit, attached to the foremost horses, and, well-armed,
silent, and watchful, the little party-set
off in single file right through the forest,
Wat Kilby taking the lead and the captain
walking with the rear.

Once or twice there were short halts to readjust
some pack or tighten the ropes that
slung some cask; but otherwise there was
the quiet tread of the horses' hoofs and an
occasional snort to break the silence of the
night. Not a man spoke save the gaunt
old sailor Wat, who gruffly gave an order
or two, and perhaps changed the direction of
the convoy.

Trees switched and rustled their branches
as the heavy households brushed against
them ; the wild animals of the wood scampered
off at the sight of the dim lanterns ;
but they had been journeying on for quite
an hour before a faint whistle placed Wat
Kilby on the qui vive, when, seeing what
was wrong, he and a couple more men stole

off amongst the trees to get to the rear of
those who were watching the strange file,
and directly after the two clerks were
struggling on the ground in utter darkness,
while the horses passed on, and Gil came
abreast.

"What is it?" he asked, in a low voice.

"We've made a mistake, skipper," growled
Wat Kilby. " It's the parson and the holy
father."

What were they doing here ? "

^' Watching," growled Wat.

"Pass on, every one," said Gil, quietly.
^^ I will speak to them. I'll join you at the
mouth."

The sound of the horses' hoofs was already
dying away in the distance, and Wat and
his companions seemed to melt softly into
the darkness, while, quietly going down on
one knee, the captain drew off the rough
pieces of cloth from the faces of the prostrate

clerks, who, finding themselves at liberty,
sat up.

*^ I hope you are not hurt, father," said
Gil to Father Brisdone.

^' Ah, my son, is it you?" was the reply.
^^ Nay, I am not hurt, though the men were
rough."

But I am hurt," cried Master Peasegood,
angrily. *^ I thought it was one of your
games. Captain Gil Carr. Zounds, sir. Sir
Thomas Beckley shall know of it, and constables
and fighting-men shall come and
clear your nest of hornets away. Zounds,
father, if I were of your faith, I'd excommunicate
him."

'^ You are hasty. Master Peasegood," said
Gil, quietly. *' Do not rail at me. I have
done nothing but set you at liberty."

But you had us seized."

'nay, indeed, I knew nothing until I
came upon you here, and I have set you

at liberty. You are quite free; go in
peace."

^' Quite free ; go in peace !" cried Master
Peasegood. zounds, sir, is this a free
country — is this his Majesty's high-way, or are
you the lord of it all ! I'll have it stopped."

^'Nay, nay. Master Peasegood, you are
angry, and you will stop nothing. You
must have seen the forest spirits, and they
interfered with you."

^' Bah ! away with thy trash."

'^ Ah, well, call it what you like. Goodnight,
Master Peasegood ; good night. Father
Brisdone; can 1 do anything for you? I
must go. I shall tell the forest spirits that
they need fear nothing from you. Master
Peasegood. They must have thought they
had captured the doughty knight Sir Mark.
Good night."

'' The impudent dog ! to compare my
figure with that of a spindle of a knight.
Bah! tush! rubbish! Come, Father Bris-sweet

MACE.

done, we will get indoors ; the night air is
unwholesome with these spirits about. But
he's right ; I shall say nothing, and I'm sure
that nothing will fall from thee."

The two friends turned and went back
towards the parson's cottage, while Gil
hurried on to overtake his party of well-armed
men.

He was not long in reaching the last
horse, and walked steadily by its side; he
came to a halt in the dark ravine just below
where Mistress Anne had been seated for so
long upon the stone, and here a busy scene
took place, the horses being rapidly unladen,
and pack, chest, and barrel being carried or
rolled along a shelf of rock beneath an overhanging
ledge of sandstone, where the little
gorge seemed to come to a sudden stop
before branching out in a fresh direction.

Sentries had been placed at some distance
along the only approach to the place;
and while they kept guard one of the Ian

terns was carried in through a rift in the
rock, and placed upon the block of stone,
where it shed its rays upon the scene, lighting
up a chamber that had evidently at
some very remote time been cut from the
rock, another communicating with it at the
back ; and here on shelf and ledge were
piled up in picturesque confusion what
seemed to be ships' stores, and a heterogeneous
collection of barrels, bales and
kegs. Some evidently contained gunpowder,
while others as certainly were
filled with that more humble meal — flour.
Then there were rolls of sailcloth, coils of
rope, racks of swords and pikes, and a couple
of small pieces of artillery.

There was no confusion : bale, keg, barrel,
and box were carried in by the men in perfect
silence, till the last load of the horses had
been deposited, when Wat Kilby growled
out an order, and four men put their shoulders
to a huge mass of stone, which they

rolled over twice, when it blocked up the
low entrance to the cave ; a few branches
were carefully dragged back to lie athwart
it, and the party once more set off as silently
as they had come, but this time with the
captain in front and Wat Kilby at his side.

'you will have plenty of time on your
hands for the next month," said the former ;
'^ you had better keep an eye on that fellow,
Abel Churr. I have been thinking
which would be best : to catch and threaten
him "

^' That's one way," said Wat.

^' To bribe "

^' Two ways."

^^ Or to take no notice."

'^ Three ways."

^^ If he gets in, which he could not do
without help, he would only take a few odds
and ends that we should never miss. The
awkwardness would be another party knowing
anything about the store when we are

away. One might come back from a voyage
to find the whole place wrecked."

'' What do you say to shutting him up fora
month to bring him to his senses?"

^^ Would not do," said Gil, as they trudged
on through the forest.

'' Take him off with us to sea ?"

'^ No, I would not do that."

'^ Hang him, then, out of the way,"
growled Wat. ^'I'U bury him after, for he
don't deserve such a Christian burial as
dropping over the side with a shot at his
heels, to be standing up at the bottom of the
sea ready to rise again."

No more was said, and the strange, weird -
looking train passed silently on through the
forest till the cultivated land was neared,
when, without a word, the strength of the
party seemed to gradually diminish, a team
of horses dropping behind here, a pair there,
a single horse further on, till at last horses
and men had all disappeared, and Wat and

the captain stood together in a moist-smelling
glade, with the early morning air coming
in gentle puffs, sometimes salt from the sea,
with the faint, peculiar odour of decaying
seaweed, sometimes sweetly-scented with the
hay which farmers here and there were
making for their winter store.

'let Abel Churr rest' said the captain
quietly. '' I may find means of quieting
his tongue."

'^ I'd like to do it myself," growled Watts
they separated, but only for the latter to
be called back.

*^ Have you been hanging about the Pool-house
lately, Wat?"

The great fellow shifted about, and
rubbed one ear.

You need not answer," said Gil, quietly,
and he walked away.

CHAPTER XIV.

HOW MOTHER GOODHUGH CURSED ABEL Charr.

The rocky ravine which looked in the darkness
like the entrance to some mystic region
had hardly been vacated by Captain Gil's
crew, and the storehouse that he had formed
in this stronghold of nature left to its solitude,
before there was a curious rustling
noise on high; a piece of bark fell to the
ground ; then a dry, dead twig ; then the
rustling was continued, and ceased for quite
a quarter of an hour before it began again.

This time it was commenced more loudly,
and a branch of a tree overhead in the darkness
quivered and jerked.

'' Too — hoo — hoo — hoo — hoo — hoo — o —

hoo — o — o — 0—0 ! '' cried an owl somewhere
close at hand, when the noise suddenly ceased,
and all was silent once more for a good half-hour.
Then the rustling was resumed, and
in the dim starlight a figure was seen to descend
a tree, rustling and scraping the bark
till it reached the patch of soil in which the
gnarled oak was rooted, and, thrusting aside
the bushes, the figure made its way down
to the trickling stream, which, after running
apparently from the rock, coursed
amongst the stones and ferns, half-hidden
from the light of day, down the ravine bottom,
to join some larger rivulet miles away.

The dimly-seen figure crept cautiously
along for some distance without venturing to
stand erect, but at last, feeling apparently
free from danger, it began to walk with less
circumspection, though always in a flinching,
animal-like fashion.

Day was breaking as it reached Mother
Goodhugh's cottage, and after glancing up

at the window, to be sure that the inmate
was not stirring, the visitor crept up the
bank opposite, and beneath a spreading fir-tree,
where, curling itself up in an animal
way, it went off to sleep.

Some three hours later Mother Goodhugh
was partaking of her breakfast — no simple
meal, but one of substance, graced as it was
with eggs and goodly bacon-rashers, gifts of
foolish peasants' wives who came to consult
her concerning sick pigs, failing poultry, and
milk-dry cows — the door was wide open, and
the sparrows, after chirping about amongst
the thatch, dropped down one by one, hopped
right in, and kept picking up the crumbs the
old woman threw from time to time upon
the red brick floor.

Sometimes she made a sound with her
lips which brought others down to partake
of her bounty, much to the annoyance of an
old one-eyed magpie, which hopped to and
fro in a wicker-cage, and cried, '' chary

VOL. I. R

and ^'ha, ha ha!^^ the former being the
nearest approach it ever got to charcoal, a
word which, with brimstone and powder,
Mother Goodhugh intended to form her pet's
repertoire.

The sparrows hopped in over the lintel,
seized crumbs, and flew off over and over
^-gain. Then there was a loud fluttering of
wings, the birds departed, and Abel Churr
entered, brushing off the fir-needles which
clung to his hair and gaberdine.

^'Just in time, mother," he chuckled.
'' Here, I've brought you the toad weed
picked at midnight, and here are stink-horns
and toadstools, fit to brew the strongest
charms you will. Give me some breakfast."

'^ Shame upon thee, idler, for wanting to
live on a lone widow's substance!" cried
Mother Goodhugh.

^* Don't I help thee to all kinds of trade
to make the' substance rich ? " chuckled Abel
Churr; ^* but wait a bit, mother, I've found

a treasure-house ; a store of riches ; and I'm
a made man. I know where to find all that
I want from time to time. Would'st like to
share it ? "

'^ Yes, yes," cried the old woman, eagerly;
'^ what have you found, Abel ? "

'^ Help me to something to eat," he said,
with a cunning smile, '^ and then I'll talk to
thee''

She hastened to put before him bread and
milk, and eggs, and bacon, of which he
freely partook, gazing at the hostess from
time to time in a peculiar way, as if he had
some further plan at heart.

'^ You don't tell me what you've found,"
said Mother Goodhugh. ^^ Come, tell me,
lad. You'll be happier for having some one
to share it all."

found!" he cried, laughing; "I'velearned
that about Captain Culverin that he would
kill me for knowing, did he find me out.
R 2

Ha, ha, ha! I shall be rich now, and can
help thee back more than thou hast helped
me to, Mother Goodhugh. Where are the
strong waters ? "

'^ I have none," said the woman sulkily.

"It is a lie," he cried, sharply ; and,
rising, he stepped to the little chimney-piece,
raised an old shell, and took out a
key, which he held up, laughing.

'nay, nay, give me the key," cried the
old woman, making a dash to seize it ; but
with a savage thrust, more like a blow, he
sent her staggering across the brick floor, to
fall heavily, and lie for a few moments half
stunned, while, chuckling with glee, Churr
opened a corner cupboard and took out a
quaint-looking black bottle, which he carried
to the table.

Coward — thief ! " cried the old woman,
as she struggled up ; " thou shalt not have
it ; " and she ran to the table, when, with a

malignant look, Churr struck her heavily
with the back of his hand, sending her
against the wall, where she stood panting.

'keep away, or I'll poor thee again,"
he cried, sourly.

^' Drink it, if you dare," she cried, with
flashing eyes. ^^ It is poison of my own
brewing. Drink, and die then : coward, to
strike me thus."

Abel Churr's whole aspect changed ; his
yellow countenance looked haggard, and
his hand shook, as he stared from the old
woman's face to the bottle, and back again.

"Ha, ha, ha!" laughed Mother Good-hugh,
seeing her power; ^* drink away, lad,
drink. I'll see thee buried beneath some
tree, and come and gather toadstools from
off thy grave."

Churr set down the bottle upon the table,
and, as he did so, his hands trembling
visibly. Mother Goodhugh slowly sidled up,
and was about to make a pounce upon the

flask, when, with a cunning flash of the eye,
Churr forestalled her and snatched it up,
laughing heartily as he took out the cork,
and smelt the contents.

Old mother of lies," he cried, chuckling.
"I'll drink this poison all day long. Hah ! "
he ejaculated, shaking the flask so that the
spirit within gurgled. ^^ Hah ! "

He placed the vessel to his lips and drank
savagely, while Mother Goodhugh stood
glaring at him, with head stretched forward
and fingers crooked like the claws of an
animal about to spring.

sphere," he cried, pouring out a little of
the spirit in a cup, and holding it to the old
woman ; " here, I will not take it all. Drink,
mother, drink."

The old woman eagerly snatched up the
cup and drained it.

That settles it. I thought so," he said,
laughing, as he took another draught. "Poor
old Mother Goodhugh will be poisoned, too.

Old fool ! to think thou could'st deceive
me with such shallow tricks. There," he
continued, after another draught, as he thrust
in the cork, and placed the flask in his
breast. '' Now I be going away."

^^ Help me that bottle," cried the old
woman. ^^ Don't take away that flask. It
is mine."

^^No more thine than mine," cried Churr,
turning round at her with a snarl. ^^ Haven't
I for years helped you in getting together
what you have ; helped you to cheat and
trick the silly, gaping fools about here with
thy mummery ? Speak to me again as you
did, and I'll go and tell them all of thy
tricks, and jugglery, and putting water in
the founder's moulds to blow them up, and
let them see thee as a woman like themselves
— old idiot that you be."

'' Tell them," cried Mother Goodhugh,
furiously, as she made an effort to tear the
flask from him, but only to be driven back

by another furious blow ; '' tell them,
coward, and they will not believe thee.
You mock at me — do you ? You call my
spells foolery. We shall see how you will
fare, now that I curse thee, and tell thee
that thou shalt not die upon a bed."

'^ Curse away, mother," lie cried. ^* I
have the strong waters."

^^ They'll not believe thee ; while, if I say
the word, there are a dozen who would slay
thee for injuring me, and leave thee to rotin
the forest or die on a mixed."

'^ Say it then," he cried, with a malignant
grin. ^^ Let them try if they dare."

'' We shall see," cried the old woman,
stretching out one hand, and gazing fiercely
at her confederate. ^' I do curse thee sleeping
and waking. You have braved me,
Abel Churr, and laughed at all my trade.
Now we shall see."

^^ Yes," he said, ^^ now we shall see ;"
and, putting the bottle in his breast, he

turned to the door. '^ I fear thy threats as
much as I do thy poison. Ha, ha, ha !
Poison — brave poison — good poison — poison
for princes. Mother, wouldn't you like to
know what I have found out about Captain
Gil?"

^^ Nay, keep thy knowledge," cried the
old woman, fiercely. ^' I know it, too. You
will not live to enjoy it. Now, get thee
gone."

'^ What!" he said, jeeringly. '' Shall I
not share my riches with thee, my dear old
partner ? Shall we not join now in cheating
and tricking some one better than the
wretched village fools ? T tell thee that
Captain Gil is rich, and I have his secret : I
have found his store."

And I tell thee, Abel Churr," cried the
old woman, '' that thou hast always been a
villain, a brute, and a coward to me. If
thou knowest aught of Captain Gil's secret,
you will keep it, and share it with none.

From this day I have neither truck nor
trade with thee, so go thy way, and my
curse go with thee. But take this to heart
as thou goes : Captain Gil is a stern man,
and if thou hast learned aught of his, and
he knows it, look to thyself, or maybe
thou'lt be settled."

Abel Churr uttered an impatient ^^ Pish ! "
and left the place full of his discovery.
Avoiding the cottages of the workpeople,
he went round by the back of the Pool, to
where, like a lawn in the wood, lay a few
acres of grass cut down for hay, a part of
which had been stacked, the remainder
lying out to dry, for a heavy rain had
checked the carrying for a day or two.

Churr looked round, listened, made sure
that the field was empty, and then started
and looked timidly upwards as a jay uttered
a loud harsh cry and flew towards the wood.
Then, crawling to the half-made stack, he
climbed upon it, separated the soft, sweet-scented

hay, took a draught of the spirit,
corked the bottle and thrust it in the heap,
and then, nestling down and drawing the
hay over him, he was in a few moments fast
asleep.

CHAPTER XV.

HOW ABEL CHUKR BOUGHT A SECRET.

That was a bitter as well as a momentous
day for Gil Carr. In the course of the
morning he made his way to the Pool-house,
determined to have a few words
with Jeremiah Cobbe, and to talk calmly to
him concerning Mace and the future. He
felt, too, that a little sympathy was due to
the founder after the late accident at his
works.

He went straight to the house, for he had
taken Mace's words to heart, that he should
go boldly to the place ; but, on entering, he
was only met by Janet, who came after he

had walked in according to old familiar custom,
and rapped loudly at an inner door.

Janet came down, looking red-faced and
guilty, from one of the upper chambers.

'' Why, Janet," he said, 'Hhe house is as
quiet as if all were dead. Where have you
been, lass ? Why, that's thy mistress's kerchief
on thy head ! "

The girl snatched it off, looking redder
and more guilty than before, and hid it
behind her.

'^ I'd wager, Janet, that thou hast been
upstairs trying on thy mistress's finery. I'll
tell her so."

'nay, pray, Captain Gilbert," she cried,
excitedly, '^ you would not make mischief
between us. I did but "

^' That's confession enough," said Gil,
laughing. " Now, tell me where is thy
master ? "

*' Down at the furnace-house, seeing to its
being new-roofed, sir," replied the girl.

And thy " Gil stopped with beating
heart, for he dared not for the moment
ask the question — one that he felt he could
himself answer. " One word though," he
cried, " Mistress Janet. I have something
to say about that pretty face of thine''

Oh, Captain Carr'' said the girl, blushing.
"You must not talk to me like that.
What would my mistress say ? "

That I was doing right, child. Harkye,
you must not be showing that pretty face
and those bright eyes to men who cannot
become thy sweethearts."

The girl's heart beat fast, and she looked
up and looked down, began to plait her
apron, dropped Mace's kerchief, snatched it
up, hid it behind her ; then turning her head,
with the pleasant flush of surprise deepening
upon her neck.

^' Why, Janet," said Gil, laughing, *you
look as modest as if you were being
courted."

'^ Oh, Captain Carr," she simpered, ^^ you
must not talk to me like that ; " and the
weak girl fell a-trembling, telling herself
that now her mistress had taken to go a-
walking with the handsome young knight
staying at the house, Captain Culverin, the
bold, handsome fellow, of whom every maiden
far and near had spoken as a hero, had fallen
in love with her.

Not talk to thee, child," said Gil,
laughing. ^^ Look here, Janet, I must be
plain with thee."

He looked at her in an amused way for a
moment, and then, catching one of her
hands, he took her chin between his finger
and thumb, and raised her face so that he
could gaze straight into her humid eyes.

The tears stood beneath the lids, and in
another moment she would have cast herself
upon the captain's breast had not a word or
two more dispelled her illusion.

'' I've known thee, Janet, since thou wert a

little toddler, to whom I gave sugar from the
Western Isles ; and for thy mistress's sake,
Janet, would not have harm befall thee.
Look you here, child. Master Wat Kilby
hangs about here to gratify his old eyes by
casting them upon thy pretty shape and face.
Now, Janet, have you ever given him encouragement
? "

^^As if it was likely!" cried the girl,
snatching herself away, and her whole aspect
undergoing a transformation. '^ A girt, old,
ugly man like that; I'd poor him if he
dared touch me. Such trade as that ! " and
she was flinging herself out of the hall when
Gil checked her by saying, sternly —

'' Stop, girl ! I am glad of it, for Wat
Kilby is no mate for thee. Where is thy
mistress ? ''

'^ Where should she be?" cried the girl,
spitefully, and with flashing eyes she went
on : '' Out in the forest reading love-songs to
Sir Mark, same as she now does every day."

She ran off to hide her tears, but not
before she had seen how cruel a stab she had
given her mistress's lover ; and then, seeking
her own chamber, she cried for long
enough over her disappointment, and as
much for sympathy for the brave young
fellow whom she had, as she well knew, cut
to the quick.

Gil stood biting his lips, as he thought
over the girl's words.

^^ No," he cried, " I won't believe it ;
Mace is too good and true'*

He went out of the house to where the
founder was directing his work people, who
were busily laying massive oaken beams
across the damaged building ; and as Gil came
up the old man nodded, talked of ordinary
things, and then excused himself on the plea
of business in so marked a manner that Gil
could not but see that his presence was irksome,
and soon afterwards left.

He had hoped to have seen Mace, but he

VOL. I. s

felt that he could not wait there now, and
in a purposeless way he turned off the beaten
track, meaning to throw himself down in
some dry, shady spot, and try and arrange
his thoughts. As it happened, fate led him
straight to an opening in the forest, where
two paths met — a place where the founder's
men had cut down the great oaks, leaving a
clump of firs standing here and there, and
beneath them was a mass of dry odorous
pine-needles, the collection of many years.
The old stumps left by the woodman's axe
were pretty well overgrown with moss, grass,
and the various wild-flowers of the wood ; and
altogether a better spot than this opening
in the thick forest could hardly have been
found for noonday dreaming.

So thought Sir Mark, as he lay at Mace's
feet, while she, with the bright rays of sunshine
darting through the thin needled
foliage, to lose themselves in her glossy hair,
sat on one of the old stumps, and read to him

in a soft, sweet voice — one which to Gil, as he
came suddenly upon them, seemed softened
and attuned to fall tenderly upon the invalid's
ear.

'' He is well enough by now, I'll wager,"
muttered Gil, as he walked straight up, to
find that Mace rose as soon as she saw him,
coloured deeply, and greeted him in a cold
and injured way.

Gil Carr's hot blood danced through his
veins, and, in his haste, he forgot to recall
the last time they had met, when he was
seen side by side with Anne Beckley ; and,
attributing Mace's constrained manner to her
vexation at being surprised with Sir Mark,
he turned upon that gentleman fiercely, to
find his glances returned with interest. For
there was a look of triumph in the visitor's
eye, and a contemptuous smile on his lip,
both of which seemed to say to him, " There,
you see you have no chance ; I am all conquering,
and the day is mine."
s2

Very few words passed before Mace, who
feared a quarrel, said —

^' Will you return with me now, Sir Mark?
The sun is growing hot, and my father will
be waiting."

He bowed in his most courtly manner, and,
taking her hand, helped her over a fallen
tree, and again across a rift in the earth,
while Gil, trembling with rage, disappointment,
and mortification, stood gnawing his

lip.

And this is woman's faith ! " he cried, ashe
strode away. " Oh, that my ship were fit
for sea, or that I had something I could do."

He stopped, thinking for a few minutes,
and then walked away straight for the
ravine, partly to pass the time, partly because
he felt uneasy about his store ; while,
sad at heart, poor Mace walked beside her
companion, who sighed and never ceased to
try and show her how hopelessly he was in
love.

It was very unfavourable for the progress
of vegetation where Gil Carr strode over the
ground, trampling down the tender forest
herbage, tearing aside the young growth
and leaving a harsh track through the forest,
till, getting nearer to his destination, he
seemed to grow more careful, and ended by
waking to the fact that any one might easily
trace him by his trail.

Altering his mind then, he struck down
beside one of the rivulets, and followed its
course pretty closely to the river — a small
enough stream, but one which at times carried
a considerable depth of water.

A mile along here brought him to a busy
nook, where, around a goodly-sized vessel, a
score of men were hard at work with hatchet
and adze repairing and restoring plank and
timber that had been torn and riven by the
rocks and waves of a long cruise. It was
only the hull, every bit of rigging having
been removed to lighten her for the men at

work ; and seated upon a barrel, smoking,
giving orders or directions, was Wat Kilby,
who rose to make his report on seeing his
skipper approach.

Gil did not stay long. He saw that his
men were working hard, and that they were
well provided for in the sheltered nook by
the little river side, which he had made his
vessel's port ; and at last, as the evening
was coming, entered the boarded hut which
formed Wat's home for the time, partook of
a rough meal with him, gave him certain
orders, and turned once more towards Roe-hurst,
meaning to go up the ravine on the
way.

He was weary with much walking, and
low-spirited. What had been a pleasant
sojourn ashore had become wearisome and
full of pain, due, he felt, rightly or wrongly,
to the coming of Sir Mark, the recollection
of whom made his brows knit and his hands
involuntarily clench.

These thoughts stayed him in his course,
and more than once he sat down thinking
whether it would not be better to get away
to one of the ports, and charter a small
vessel for a trip, so as to occupy his mind.

^^ And leave the field open to the enemy?"
he cried, springing up. *nay, that's not
like Gil Carr."

With sundry plans in his head, then, he
now went straight on, climbing up the
rugged sides of the ravine, heedless of the
growing darkness, and at last reaching the
entrance to his store.

His intention had been to glance at it,
and make sure that it was all right, and then
to go on to Roehurst for the night, hoping
to gain an interview with Mace, and take
her to task for her change, when he had
spoken of himself.

But as he reached the entrance his heart
stood still, for his worst fears were confirmed.

The retreat that he had taken such
pains to keep a secret, and had shrouded
with enough mystery to make the goings
and comings of his men an object, not of
curiosity amongst the simple superstitious
people, but alarm, had been discovered, and
by some one full enough of enterprise and
daring to make his way inside.

The first thing that struck his attention
was a tall, stout fir-pole, which had evidently
been used as a lever to dislodge the stone
that stopped the entrance, and on going
close up and peering in he could see a dim
light burning upon one of the ]barrels, while
a figure was down upon its knees hard at
work opening a case.

^^The pitiful thief!" said Gil, as a
movement on the intruder's part let the
light fall upon his face. *^ As I thought —
Abel Churr. Well, Master Churr," he muttered,
as a hard look came over his face.

'' you have discovered a secret that should
be paid for with death — the due meed
awarded to a thief."

He drew his long, thin sword, and, holding
it before him, stepped cautiously forward
; but altering his mind, he thrust it
back into the sheath with an impatient
ejaculation, and once more peered over the
stones between them at where the marauder
was busily prising open the case.

^'The fool!" muttered Gil; ^' if that
candle burned down he would be blown to
pieces. What cursed luck that he should
have found us out."

He took another step forward cautiously,
to avoid being heard, lest Churr should dash
by and escape ; but, once inside, the captain's
person blocked the way, and stepping boldly
forward, Churr started up with a shrill cry,
like some beast when tracked to its lair.

*^ You dog!" cried Gil, as he dashed at

him, receiving, as he did so, a heavy blow
from the iron bar with which the adder-hunter
had been wrenching open the case.

He staggered back, and Churr was springing
over him, but he was too late, for,
recovering himself, Gil seized him tightly,
and a fierce struggle began.

Churr had sprung forward so sharply that
Gil Carr was driven to the narrow platform
beyond the stone, and the struggle took
place outside the cave. But it was not of
long duration, for Churr was no match for
the well-built, muscular young man, who,
after wrestling with him here and there,
ended by wrenching from him the iron bar,
and they fell heavily on the narrow shelf of
rock, from which, if either slipped, he would
go down some forty feet perpendicular, and
then crash through the bushes into the dark
bed of the rivulet far below.

'^ What — what are you going to do ? "

panted Churr at last, as he was held half
over the side.

'* To kill you, as I would any other
thieving rat or vermin who came to steal.
But tell me first who knows of this place
beside you ? "

^' No one, not a soul'' howled Chit.
Then, feeling that he had made a mistake,
he added hastily, '- Only a few trusty
friends."

'^ The first words were the truth," said
Gil, sharply, as his hand sought his belt ;
the last were added to make me afraid to
kill you, lest others should come and be
aware of the deed. Abel Churr, you have
learned a secret, and you must have known
the risk."

But I'll never tell, and I'll never come
again. I'll never help it to a soul, or say a
word about the trade."

Never," said Gil in a low stern voice.

It was quite dark now, and the gloom of
the ravine seemed heavier than ever as Abel
Churr, who felt that his end was near,
wrenched himself slightly round to gaze
shudderingly into the depths below ; and
then as he fancied that he saw the flash of a
knife in Gil's disengaged hand, while the
other held him tightly by the belt, he
uttered a loud shriek, that was repeated
from the rock in front, to die off in whispers
as if the man condemned to death were
already on his way to the unknown shore,
and his voice could be heard farther and
farther as he onward sped.

CHAPTER XVI.

HOW TOM CROFTLY HAD A HOLIDAY.

The founder yielded one day to Tom Croftly 's
importunities and gave him a holiday, which
also meant taking one for himself, and to
thoroughly enjoy it they both got up early.

Tom Croftly was first, reaching the Pool-house
before it was light, and just as the blackbirds
had begun to hunt in the damp corners
for slugs and snails.

It was quite an hour later before the
founder joined him, to find Tom working
away with the heavy old wheelbarrow and
the manure-fork.

'^ Hallo, Tom, you here?" said the founder,

looking eastward, where the golden orange
flecks told of the coming sun.

sphere? Ay, been here this hour ; most
emptied the mixed, and got a brave girt bed
made ; but who's to work wi' such a tool as
this ? " and he held up the fork.

'' You, if you've any sense in your head,"
growled the founder, who was sleepy yet.

'Tve got some sense in my head," said
Tom Croftly ; '^ but no man can't work with
a noo-fangled tool like that. I never see such
a thing. It breaks a man's back. A fork
ought to have three tines in it."

^^ And I say it ought to have four," said
the founder, tartly. ^' Why, as soon as you
started to fork dry stuff with the other it
all began to tumble through. That new
four-tined fork holds it."

'say, and 'most breaks a man's back,"
grumbled Tom Croftly. ^^ Falls through?
Why, of course it does. That's nat'ral, and
as it should. It's the small as falls through,

and you takes up all the crumbs after wi' a
shovel. 'Taint like having a holiday to work
wi' a tool like that."

^^ There, get on," said the founder, " and
don't grumble. Lend me the fork."

He seized the implement, and loaded up
the barrow easily and well, turning afterwards
to his man,

'^ There, you can't do better than that."

^^ And where's your crumbs to finish off
with at the top ?" grumbled Tom Croftly.
^^We shan't get much of a cucumber bed,
you'll see."

^^ Look here, Tom Croftly, if you're going
to grumble like this, we'll go back to the
f sundry-work. "

^^ Nay, nay, master."

'' Thou asked for a holiday, and I said
yes,' and here it is."

'^ And my garden wanted it badly, master."

Yes ; but I'm not going to holiday keep
with a grumbler."

^' I'll never say another word, master,
only that tool felt as if Mother Goodhugh
had put a spell upon it. Hoop ! wup ! "

The two latter ejaculations were uttered
by the founder's man, as he lifted the barrow-handles,
and then pushed the barrow along
over the dewy grass-paths to where the
cucumber-bed was to be made."

^' Mother Goodhugh never put a spell on
anything in her life," said the founder,
stoutly, as he began to unload the barrow ina
little square marked out by four strong pegs.

'' I dunno about that, master," said Tom,
rubbing his great bullet-head.

'why, Tom, Tom, thought never such a
fool as to believe in ghosts, and sprites, and
witches ? " said the founder, arranging the
stable manure carefully with the fork.

'nay, nay, master. Oh, no. I don't
believe in 'em, but it was eurus that the
mould should blow up in that terrifying way
after Mother Goodhugh had been."

'' Curious if it hadn't," cried the founder,
patting down his work. ^'If Tom Croftly
had given a look to the mould first, or if I
had — as I ought to have done— there would
have been no explosion."

Nay, master, I think she ill-tucked the
mould."

'^ And I think she poured a pail of water
in, my lad. Why, Tom, you're six feet one
high."

^^ Six foot two and a half, master," said
Tom, in a self-satisfied manner.

'^ And as strong as a horse."

'^ Ay, master, I am. I lifted our pony
o£E his legs the other day."

And yet you're afraid of that poor half-daft
old woman."

"Nay, nay, master; not afeard'* said Tom,
stoutly. "I never felt afeard o' Mother Good-hugh
yet ; but you see, if she do happen like
to be a witch, it be just as well to be civil to

VOL. I. T

her like, and not do anything to make her

curse one."

'^ Curses don't do any harm, Tom, my
lad," said the founder.

^^ I hope they don't, master, for Mother
Goodhugh do curse you a deal."

Let her," said the founder.

Shall I fetch they crumbs in a trug,
master?" said Tom, watching intently the
formation of the cucumber-bed.

^ We will have the bed a deal higher yet,
Tom, and put the crumbs on the top, and a
couple o' hills of nice wain earth a' top o'
that. We must have some finer cucumbers
this year than Dame Beckley grows up at
the Moat."

The manufacture of the cucumber-bed went
on, and Tom Croftly had the satisfaction of
fetching the '' crumbs " in a trug or truck-basket
; after which, the founder and he had
a long turn at the patch of hops, which had

been growing rather wild and away from
their poles. The wild ones were carefully
twisted round the supports, and tied at intervals
with rushes to keep them in place, after
which, it being seven o'clock, the founder
proposed breakfast, and led the way to the
house.

Sir Mark had accepted an invitation the
previous day, after much protesting that he
was still too weak and could hardly get
about, and had gone to dine with Sir
Thomas at the Moat, and stay the next day
over, so that Mace felt herself free and
forgetful of her troubles. She set aside
the haunting thoughts of the fate of the
weapons her father made, and devoted herself
to domestic duties that had of late fallen
to Janet's lot.

^^ Morning, mistress !" cried Tom, coming

smiling in at the kitchen door, through which

he could see Mace with her sleeves rolled

above her white elbows busily trying the

T 2

new cakes that had been baked for breakfast.


Good morning, Tom," cried Mace.
^^ Quick, Janet, get out the cold bacon and
draw a mug of ale."

Tom smiled broadly, as he took his place
at the white, well-scrubbed table, for it was
an understood thing that whenever Tom
Croftly had a whole holiday, that is to
say, had a cessation from foundrywork to
go in the garden, he had his meals at the
house.

The founder's breakfast was ready, but
he was called away, so Mace remained busy
about the kitchen, going in and out of the
dairy where the golden butter lay in rolls,
and the yellow cream was so thick in the
broad pans that it went into wrinkles and
wrinkles, like an old woman's face when it
was skimmed.

The glorious sunshine came in at the open
door, with the scent of the flowers, and the

bees buzzed about the blossoms as they
journeyed to and from their round-topped
hives, while Tom Croftly took a long
draught of ale, sighed, and then began work
upon the new loaf and bacon.

'' This be a fine cut o' bacon, mistress,"
said he, as Mace came near.

'^ I am glad you like it, Tom."

'^ Ay, I like the bacon, mistress, but this
here knife *s a wonder''

'' What, isn't it sharp, Tom ? "

'^ Sharp, mistress, bean' t nothing to it. It
be terrifying sharp, and it be as keen at
the back as it be at the front, and that's
what I don't like, for it's risky like at the
corners o' your mouth, and when a man's
mouth is already two sizes too large, it's a
pity to cut it bigger."

^' Take another, Tom," said Mace, placing
one for him.

'^ Thanks, mistress, that's kind of you,"
said Tom. *eh, but you be grown into

a flower. Here only t'other day, and I see
thee balancing thyself on thy two pretty
little pink legs, and couldn't get on wi' my
work for watching thee — lest thou should
fall."

^^You always were very kind to me, Tom,"
said Mace, smiling.

^^ And always will be," said Tom Croftly ;
'for, mistress, it did my heart good to
see thee stick up for the master again that
old Mother Goodhugh."

Poor weak woman ! " said Mace, sadly.

*' Ay, poor weak old woman ; but she's
got a sore heart, mistress, like as — as —
some one else have as I knows on."

'« Who's that, Tom ?" said Mace.

'^ Captain Culverin Carr," said Tom, striking
the table with the haft of the knife.
"Ah, I don't like dressed-up jay-birds
from London."

Mace was silent, but she looked at their
old workman with eyes that were half

alarmed, half angry, and hearing her father's
voice hurriedly left the kitchen.

'^ Ay, so his heart is sore'* muttered Tom
Croftly, after a glance round to see that
he had not been heard. '^ If I thought that
ill-wishing that London spark would keep
him away from here, I'd give Mother Good-hugh
my biggest couple o' ducks — that girt
young 'un and his brother."

Tom Croftly stopped and sighed for a
long time over his bread and bacon before
returning to the enjoyment of his holiday
the founder did not join him, however, fo
a good half hour longer, when Mace was by
his side.

That was a golden day to both — a holiday
indeed. No allusion was made to the departure
of their visitor, neither was Gil's
name mentioned; but, as if some burden had
been removed from both their hearts, they
seemed to have made up their minds to have

one (lay such as they had been accustomed
to in what seemed like the olden times.

With a straw hat to shade her bright face,
Mace was now looking on, while the raspberry
canes that had broken loose were
retied to their stakes, and then she held the
knife as she had a score of times in childhood
while the founder went down upon
his knees to take the bindings off from some
freshly-grafted trees, commenting upon his
work, and boasting of its superiority over
the grafting done at Dame Beckley's.

Then there were the cuttings of those
curious plants to see to that Gil had brought
back from his last voyage, and they seemed
to be progressing well, all but one that was
being eaten by a grub.

Mace listened eagerly, thinking that her
father would mention Gil's name now, but
he went on weeding out a few interlopers
before he seemed to recal whence the cuttings

came, and then he frowned and turned
off to another part of the garden.

The cloud passed away directly, and they
were chatting merrily again or listening to
Tom Croftly, who possessed a very long
tongue, and had plenty to say.

'flor', Miss Mace, look at my apple-trees,
how they be clinging down already!" cried
Tom. Croftly. ^'Look at the girt big uns
trumpeting all down the boughs. I'll have
to put a stood under yon branch, or a wilt
be breaking down."

'^ They look lovely, Tom. No scarcity
this year."

^^ Not there, mistress. It all comes o' well
wassailing the trees. If there's anything
I like, its a good apple-howling in due
season."

^^ But you don't think it makes any difference,
Tom?"

'not make any differ, mistress? Why
look at my trees this year."

^^ Oh, they are loaded enough, Tom,"
said Mace, smiling; ^'but would they not
have borne as well without that noise the
lads made on New Year's Eve ?"

'not they, mistress. I like the boys to
come round to the orchards, and shout and
go round the apple-trees in a ring," he said,
stopping to hold his reaping-hook horizontally,
and making a movement with his left
hand, as if to complete the circle, while
he closed his eyes and repeated the following
doggrel, as if it were some sacred
verse : —

Stand fast, root; bear well, top ;
Pray the God send us a good howling crop.
Every twig apples big ;
Every bough apples enow;
Hats full, caps full.
Full quarters sacks full.'

'^ That's it, mistress ; that brings the
apples. There's a fine cluster o' little wild
strawberries here," he cried, as he ^^ brushed,"

as he called it, the thistles and nettles that
were springing up under the orchard trees.

*^ I'll bring a basket and pick them, Tom''
cried Mace ; and she ran quickly back to the
house.

^^A swap soon gets dull, master," said
Tom, stopping to sharpen the broad-bladed
reaping-hook he held, and gazing the while
after Mace. '' Eh, but it ought to be a girt
and good man, master, who has young
mistress for a wife. A king wouldn't be
good enough for she."

^^ Right, Tom," said the founder. ^^ Hallo,
what's the matter ? " he cried, as Mace came
running back in a state of great excitement.

'^ The bees, father — a swarm."

Down went Tom Croftly's hook and
whet-stone, and away he and the founder
ran to where. the bees were in full flight, a
late colony, after hanging in a pocket-shaped
cluster outside their straw dome for days,
having at last persuaded their queen to start.

It was a headlong flight, but not off and
away, for as the founder and his man came
up it was to find that the busy little insects
were darting to and fro, as if bound to
describe as many elongated diamonds as
they could in the hot sunshine. There was
a sharp angry buzzing hum in the air,
and, after running into the kitchen, Tom
came back with a broken poker and the
brass preserving-pan, which he belaboured
wildly like a gong, evidently under the
belief that the bees would be charmed or
stunned into repose.

^^ Nothing like dinging 'em well, master,"
he cried, as the bees darted here and there.
'^ They won't sting thee, mistress. There,
look at the pretties!" he cried. swell
done ! What a cast, and as big as a May-day
swarm."

This was as he saw that the queen had
settled upon a pendent branch of a young
plum-tree, the workers clustering round andover

and under, and clinging one to the
other, till there was a great insect mass,
which made the bough drop lower and lower
till it nearly touched the ground.

*^ That be the very place to have 'em,
master," he cried. 'snow, mistress, thou'lt
take them, won't thee ? It's a fine girt
swarm. Ye mayn't be afraid, and they won't
hurt thee. I'll fetch a hive."

He trotted off, leaving father and daughter
watching the great mass of bees hanging
some two feet from the ground; and soon
after Tom Croftly returned with a clean
hive, which he busily rubbed with sugar dissolved
in beer, while he held a bee-board
under his arm.

'snow, mistress, art ready?" he cried.

*nay, Tom, I'll take them myself," said
the founder. " We mustn't have her stung."

He took the hive from his man, placed
it beneath the great ball of insects, and gave
the branch a quick sharp shake, with the

result that nearly all fell into the hive.
Another shake sent in the rest, so that it
seemed as if they must be crushed or infuriated
into stinging him to death; but,
though some rose and buzzed around his
head, he quietly placed the bee-board,
handed to him by Tom, over the open
hive, deftly reversed it, placed it under the
shade of the tree, and left it there for the
insects to settle in their new home.

The bees had been left but a few minutes,
when, with his face lit up with smiles, the
founder exclaimed,

^^Why, Mace, that's been a warm job.
Tom Croftly would like a mug of ale to
drink success to the swarm."

sand you will have one, too, under the
apple-tree, father ; and — just one pipe."

^^Get out!" cried the founder, ^^ putting
temptation in a weak man's way." But he
went to the large seat under the old apple-tree,
that spread its longest branches over

the Pool, and had just settled himself down
as Mace returned with his big silver tankard,
pipe, and tobacco.

shah! that's prime!" he said, as he
seated himself in an easier position, gazing
through his half-closed eyes at his luxuriant
garden and the glistening surface of the
Pool. 'why, here comes the parson. Hey
there. Master Peasegood : just in time ! "

The stout clerk had seen the founder in
his garden, and came panting up, his face
seeming to grow broader as he neared the
apple-thee.

^'Hah!" he sighed, shaking hands as he
sat down, '' what weak creatures mortals
are. Here have I been murmuring against
the heat, and the great burden of flesh I
have to bear, and all the time there is rest
and refreshment waiting to be offered to me.
Mace, my darling, if I were not a parson, I'd
say by the hand of an angel. Thanks, child.

thanks! Cobbe, here's thy good health, man.
May'st thou never be as fat as I."

He drank heartily and passed the flagon
to the founder, who tapped the lid up and
down as he said with a look of pride : " My
own barley, parson — malted myself ; my
own hops — grew yonder ; and the ale —
brewed in my own tub. Good as Dame
Beckley's home-made wine, eh ? "

'^ Don't talk about it, goodman," cried
the parson, with a look of disgust. 'come,
thou hast raised a desire to take the taste
out of my mouth that seemed to come in.
Give me the flagon once again."

The founder passed the ale, and the
visitor took another draught of so vigorous
a kind that, after the operation. Mace started
off to refill the vessel.

^^Ah!" sighed Master Peasegood, ^^the
dreadful draughts that good, weak woman has
presented me to drink are something terrible

to think of : — agrimony tea, balm wine,
camomile tea, and a score more ; but the
worst of all is that dreadful juice of her sour
well-squeezed grapes, that she calleth wine.
Master Cobbe, will you kindly pass the ale,
and methinks I'll take a pipe."

The parson dined with them, and stayed
on as if to supper ; Tom Croftly enjoying
the rest of his holiday his own way, which
was in ^' terrifying weeds," as he called it,
chopping away with a hoe at the luxuriance
that sprang up in the moist, fertile garden.
In the evening the seat beneath the apple-tree
was occupied, and they sat and talked as
the soft running murmur of the water came
pleasantly to their ears, while Mace, in the
enjoyment of the pleasant hours, and forgetful
of her love-troubles for the time,
worked as long as she could see. Sir Mark
was forgotten, and, in spite of one painful
remembrance, Gil's bronzed, handsome face

VOL. I. u

filled her fancy as she listened to the whirr
of the nightjar from the oak plantation, and
from the bosky clumps away towards the
ironstone hills the thrush's evening hymn ;
and then away and away for miles till
the sweet songs sounded faint and died
away.

Sweet halt in the journey of her life.
Sweet music of water and song-bird. Sweet
scent of rose and clematis climbing round
the windows of the house. The very air
laden with sweetness, so that Mace asked
herself why she had ever felt unhappy when
she was surrounded by such joys.

Not one word or thought had for hours
been given to Sir Mark, and he had, as it
were, dropped out of her memory for the
time, till, just as supper was ready. Mace
saw Tom Croftly making signs to her with
the handle of his hoe.

She rose, and left her father talking

earnestly with the parson, to go to where
the countryman was standing waiting for
her to come.

'' I've about terrified all them weeds, mistress,"
he said, ^' and I'm going home.
The bees be all right, and I've had a rare
fine day ; but there be somewhat as I want to
say to thee, child, and I don't quite like to
speak."

'' What is it, Tom ?" said Mace. '' Is it
anything I can do for you ? "

'' Yes, mistress, it be ; though I bent
quite settled in my mind whether I ought
to teller. Did that there trug as I made
you do, mistress ? "

^* Oh, capitally, Tom. It just holds
enough fruit for one day's picking."

'^ That be right, mistress, and I be glad.
I got the best 'good I could. All alder 'good,
and well seasoned ; and "

'' You want me to do something for you,
Tom?"

u2

'^ Well, yes, mistress. My pretty little
mistress as I've snowed ever since thou
couldst toddle. Thou won't be hurt like
and rate me if I speak ? "

^* No, Tom, I will not," said Mace, wondering
what his request would be.

'^ Then don't you be guided into listening
unto that fine London spark, mistress, for
he's a bad 'un, fond o' wenching, and not
good enough for thee."

Tom Croftly did not wait for an answer
to his prayer, but hurried away in a shamefaced
fashion, leaving Mace with her breast
heaving and the colour burning in her
cheeks. The tears rose to her eyes, and she
seemed to awaken once more to the realities
of the present, and, as if to complete the
disillusioning of her heart, she heard the
tramp of a horse, and as she rejoined her
father she heard the stout parson say —

'^ Hey, Master Cobbe, here comes thy
gay visitor. I think I'll not stay supper.

I'll say good-night. Ah, Mace, my child,
you there ? Farewell, my darling. Goodnight."


He rolled ofp, meeting Sir Mark by the
bridge, as the latter caught sight of Mace's
dress through the trees, and effectually
blocking the knight's way as he tried to be
polite, till such time as Mace had reached
her room to sit for hours thinking of Sir
Mark's return. Then she found herself
wondering what Gil was doing, and whether
she ought ever to give him a thought now
as she recalled the scene which she had
witnessed with Mistress Anne.

CHAPTER XVII.

HOW GIL AND SIR MARK MEASURED SWORDS.

^^ A COURTIER," said Sir Mark, smiling. ^^ Well
perhaps I am ; but see how I have taken to
this rustic, delicious life. I have felt like
another man since I have been here."

'* Indeed, Sir Mark," said Mace gravely,
as they stood a couple of evenings later in
the founder's hatfield, where the stack now
stood waiting for its crowning of straw.

*' Yes, indeed," he cried. '' Look here; I
have been with your men to-day and yesterday
when they piled up this sweet-scented
hay, and I am growing quite a farmer. I
know that Master Cobbe was rather too
hurried in getting it up, and that it reeks

too much, and that if it were covered in now
it would go bad''

'^ Indeed?" said Mace, and speaking as if
her thoughts were far away.

'^ Yes, indeed," he cried ; ^' and I am
growing wise in gun-casting and powder-making.
I am learning day by day ; but
above all, sweet Mace, I am learning how
vain and hollow is the world to which I have
belonged, and how happiness is not to be
found there."

^' You are talking in riddles, Sir Mark,"
replied Mace, dragging herself back as it
were to listen to his words.

^^ Read my riddles, then'' he cried, in a
low tone, as he laid his hand upon her arm,
and arrested her by the meadow-path.
'mace, dearest, listen to me— but for a few
moments. No, no ; do not hasten— the
evening is early yet, and where could be
fitter place for what I would say than this

sweetly-scented mead, where the soft evening
breeze seems to whisper of that which
fills my heart ? Mace, dearest, I love you
with all my heart."

^' Sir Mark," she said, turning to look
half wonderingly, half in anger, in his
flushed face, ^^do you forget that you are
my father's guest ; that this is no place of
gallantry, but that I, his simple, country-born
child, am a mere rustic, and unfit for
such as you ? "

'^ Unfit! '* he cried. ^^ Shame, when you
are beautiful as the fairest woman of King
James's court."

*^ The evening is growing damp. Sir
Mark," said Mace coldly.

«< Why are you so distant ? " he whispered,
trying to take her hand. '' Nay, nape, this
is too bad, you must have seen, you must
know, that I love you."

*' I have seen, sir, that it has pleased you

to pass compliments, as seems to be a
favourite habit of yours, and you, sir, must
have seen that they caused me pain."

^^ Pain? When I'd give my right hand,
my very life, to save you from a single
pang ! Image, you know why I have lingered
here, even to getting in disgrace with my
Royal master, that I might be near you ;
and now for reward you grow cold as if we
had never met before."

'^ Sir Mark, I must return home."

^^ Yes, directly, sweet; but, Mace, listen
to me. You cannot, you will not, be so cold
as this ? "

^' Sir Mark," replied the girl, '^ does my
father know that you meant to speak to me
thus?"

Pest on her particular ways," he muttered.
Then aloud, ^^No; but he shall
know, if you wish it, sweet."

'' If I wish it, Sir Mark ! I do wish it ;
and tell him at the same time what I tell

you now, that I say I cannot listen to your
words."

He was so taken aback by her firmness
that she swung open the gate and passed
hastily along the road leading to the house,
looking excited, tearful, and greatly agitated
a state of agitation increased as she encountered
Gil half-way, and knew that he
must see her excited manner.

'^ Mace'' he said, sternly, " I want a few
words with you."

'* Not now ; not now," she said.

'' Yes, now," he cried, angrily. '' I cannot
bear this coldness longer. You must, you
shall, listen to me."

No, no," she cried ; '' another time."

Why another time?" he said. "Ah, I
see," he cried, with jealous fury, for, glancing
beyond her, he suddenly became aware
of the figure of Sir Mark approaching them ;
and, turning a curious, inquiring look upon
the girl, he glanced back at Sir Mark-there

is the reason, then. And it is for
this gay court-bird that rough Gilbert Carr
is thrown aside."

Had it been lighter he would not, in his
then excited mood, have read aright the look
of reproach in the poor girl's face as she
hurried onward to hide the burning tears
that flooded her eyes, and reached home to
find Father Brisdone waiting by the garden-gate.


Ah, my child," he said, saluting her; " a
goodly evening. How sweet the wild flowers
smell ! Why, what is wrong ? You seem in
trouble."

Yes, yes, father," she whispered, excitedly.
" A sudden fear has assailed me.
Go down towards the meadow, follow them
into the wood, if they have gone there ; my
heart tells of mischief."

'' They ? Who, child ? " said the father,
quickly.

'' Sir Mark— Gilbert Carr. I fear they
will quarrel."

'' Have they cause ? " said the father, inquiringly.
" Here is Master Peasegood.
He was to meet me. Well met, Brother
Joseph," he said, as the stout clerk waddled
up. *' Leave it to us, dear child, and we
will bring these mad boys to their senses."

'' Mad boys — senses! " cried Master Pease-good,
mopping his face. '' What i^? wrong ?
You don't mean that this Sir Mark and the
Captain — ? Oh fie. Mace, my child, fie ! "

Master Peasegood, if you have any
feeling for me," cried Mace, in hot indignation,
"go and interpose before there is
mischief done."

Phew ! " whistled the clerk. '' Brother
Brisdone, come along."

It was time they started, especially as
Master Peasegood's bravest pace was a very
slow one, for no sooner had Mace hurried

away than, with his anger and jealousy
completely mastering him, Gil strode towards
Sir Mark, who, on seeing him approach, far
from attempting to avoid the meeting, leaned
back against the gate, and stared at his
rival with a cool exasperating mien.

Gilbert Carr had been a fighting-man
from the time he had first learned to handle
a sword ; he had also been in command of a
ship in many a perilous time, and the result
of his training had been to teach him the
necessity of coolness in danger. This was a
perilous time, and from old custom he began
at once to master his excitement, and prepare
himself for the encounter that he felt
must take place. He was as hot and determined
as ever, but he felt that he must
gain the mastery over this court gallant, or
he would never feel happy more. It would
result in his increasing Mace's displeasure
perhaps, but in his cooler moments he might

feel the deepest sorrow for having caused
her pain.

All the same, though, the thought came
upon him that Mace's name must be left
out of the quarrel. It would be cruel in
the extreme to have it known far and wide
that he and this knight had fought about
Mace Cobbe. It would be like a blow at
her reputation, and, besides, whatever he
might know in his heart of hearts. Sir Mark
should not have the satisfaction of jeering
at him as the successful lover.

No, there should be some other cause for
the fight that would ensue, and it was easy
to find one.

Easier than Gilbert Carr expected, for Sir
Mark, stung by disappointment and the cold
manner in which Mace had received his declaration,
after he had, as he thought, carefully
laid siege to and won her, was just in
the humour to quarrel with a fly. From

where he stood he had seen Gil stop and
speak to the maiden, and it seemed to him
that she had sent Gil on to chastise him for
his insolence.

^^ A confounded little rustic coquette!" he
muttered ; " and now she sends her bully tome.
Curse him, he thinks I am weak with
illness and easily managed. Let him mind,
or I may deal differently with him to what I
did with the old founder''

As Gil came nearer, asking himself how
he should commence the quarrel, Sir Mark's
rage was ready to master him, for he began
to feel that all his courtly adulation had
been thrown away ; that the founder's
daughter had listened in her calm, self-contained
way, while he had fooled himself
into the belief that he was moulding her,
like soft wax, to his will ; and all the time
this Carr held the key of her heart, and was
preferred.

*^ Curse him, let him mind," he muttered.
^' I know one or two stoccatos that he can
never have learned ; and if I had him at my
feet, run through the body, why it would bea
service to King James, for the fellow is no
better than a buccaneer''

Gril came steadily up, towards the gate,
still at a loss what to say, when Sir Mark
insolently faced him, drew himself up, and,
staring from his crown to his feet and back
again, said sharply, —

'' Were you sent to talk to me ? "
*^ No," said Gil, sharply, ^' I was not."
^^Oh!" replied Sir Mark, caressing his
pointed beard ; '^ I thought, perhaps, the

young lady of "

'hold that prating tongue," cried Gil,
angrily, ''or I may slit it, to teach it manners.
I was not sent to talk to you, but I came to
seek and know more of the man who has
thought proper to settle himself down here.

Hark ye ! my good knight and follower of
King James, the Solomon, the wise hater of
tobacco, I want to know your business ? "

^' Let us see," replied Sir Mark, insolently.
Are you authorised to inquire ? Recollect,
fellow, that you are addressing one of his
Majesty's officers."

^' I authorise myself," said Gil, quietly,
as he fought hard to keep down his rage
and be cool. ^^ As for his Majesty and his
officers, tell him that down here in the south
are some staunch men, who care no more for
him, his laws, and his thick-tongued utterances,
than they do for his messengers, however
gaily they may be clad''

*^ You know, I suppose, that I could have
you seized, good fellow, and laid by the
heels in prison till such time as it pleased his
Majesty to have you tried for sedition, and
then hung or shot for the peace of his land."

'' A way that would seem most meet to
you, I presume," said Gil, quietly.

VOL. I. X

^' He is beside himself with rage, and yet
trying to madden me, but I'll keep cool and
urge him on," thought Sir Mark.

^'I shall strike him directly, if he talks tome
like that," thought Gil.

'' Let me see," said Sir Mark, gazing at
his rival with half-closed eyes ; '^ I have
pretty well mastered your life, my good
fellow ; and the country would be purified if
you were away. You are one of Raleigh's
crew of buccaniering rulers."

'^ Sir," cried Gil, proudly, '^ I am the son
of one of the band of brave men who went
out with that injured knight, and who look
with the most utter contempt upon the north-country
faithless puppet who sent him to the
block. Pah ; he and his followers stink in
the nostrils of all good men and true. Let
me see'' cried Gil, seizing his opportunity,
by your broad speech, sir, you are one of
the paltry, ragged Scots who came south
with Solomon to seek a home."

'^ You lie, you scurrilous knave'' said Sir
Mark, stung to the quick by this last; " I am
the son of a gentleman, who knows how to
avenge an insult''

As he spoke he sprang forward and struck
Gil in the chest with the back of his hand.

The blow was sharply given, and with all
the young man's force ; but Gil did not
budge an inch. This was what he sought,
and, drawing back from the gate, he made
way for the knight to pass.

Sir Mark, evidently fearing treachery,
drew his sword, but Gil had no thought of
foul play.

*' I make way for you. Sir Mark," he
said, grimly. ^^ Walk on first, sir, while you
can."

Sir Mark started at the grim significance

of his companion's words ; and then, full of

doubt in the other's honesty, he strode along

a path pointed out by his rival, fighting hard

x2

to keep from looking back to see if lie were
in danger of a treacherous blow.

Turn to the left, Sir Mark," said Gil,
suddenly ; "I presume you do not wish our
meeting to be interrupted, and it may be if
we stay within the wood."

'' Where would you go, then ? " cried Sir
Mark, sharply, for he felt his courage fail
somewhat in the presence of a man who
grew cooler each moment.

The lower furnace-house seems the likeliest
spot to me," said Gil, quickly. '^ It
will be deserted at this hour ; there will be a
good light from the roasting ore, and the
clash of our swords will be unheard. Moreover,
there will be a shorter distance to carry
the body of the man who falls."

Sir Mark shuddered, but he made no
sign ; and, following the direction pointed
out by Gil, the two young men came out of
the wood below the wheel, crossed the stream

by a plank bridge, and then, passing through
two or three thick plantations, surrounding
as many powder sheds, they entered a wide
stone building, whose floor was of furnace-cinder
and charcoal ; and, as they stood face
to face, the place was far more light than
the wood.

Without another word, Gil divested himself
of cap and doublet, drawing his sword,
and throwing down belt and sheath, in all of
which he was imitated by Sir Mark, who,
now that he was face to face with the peril,
seemed to lose a good deal of his nervousness,
though the coolness of his enemy staggered
him.

Your sword, sir," said Gil, holding out
his hand ; but Sir Mark shrank back, and
stood upon his defence.

I merely wished to measure them," said
Gil, contemptuously, as he threw his own
upon the charcoal floor. "Measure them
yourself."

Shamed by his rival's greater show of confidence.
Sir Mark made an effort over his
suspicious nature, picked up Gil's sword, and,
holding both by the blades as they flashed in
the warm red glow of the furnace, he handed
them to Gil.

"Nay," he said; "measure them yourself."

Gil smiled as he took the weapons, laid

the blades together, and finding his own to

be fully three inches the longer, he handed

it by the blade to Sir Mark.

That is not my weapon," said the latter,
suspiciously. "Give me my own sword,
fellow."

"Not I," said Gil ; "mine is three inches
longer in the blade, and I am not going to
have it said that I killed thee by taking a
foul advantage. We have no seconds, sir."

Sir Mark hesitated for a few moments, and
then, with the longer weapon, placed himself
on guard with a good deal of the ceremony
taught in the fencing-schools, while Gil

quietly crossed swords with him, and the
fight began.

It was a curious sight in that black-floored
building, lit by the ruddy glow of the charcoal-furnace,
whose illuminating powers sufficed
to produce a ruddy twilight — nothing more
through which the figures of the contending
men could be seen in rapid motion, as
their flashing blades gritted edge against
edge, and passes were rapidly exchanged.

Both fenced well, and at the end of a
couple of minutes they fell back by mutual
consent. No advantage had been obtained on
either side. Each of them had, however,
fully awakened to the fact that he had no
contemptible enemy to deal with ; and as
with recovered breath they crossed swords
once more it was with increased caution, and
pass and parry followed with each exerting
all his skill.

Gil fought, in spite of his apparent calmness,
with terrible fury, for he was face to

face with the man whom he believed to have
blasted his happiness, and three times over
the keenly-pointed blade he held passed
through his adversary's linen shirt, literally
grazing the skin.

On his own side in the dim light he had
had enough to do to hold his own, for it was
only by the most skilful fencing that he was
able to throw aside Sir Mark's fierce thrusts,
one of which inflicted a skin wound in his
shoulder, and another grazed his hip.

They pressed each other in turn to and
fro near the furnace-mouth, where the man
who faced it gained no advantage, for he
was thrown up so distinctly to his adversary's
view, and then back right into the
gloomiest corner of the great building,
where it was so dark that the danger was
the same.

The swords gritted and flashed once or
twice, emitting faint sparks ; the contending
men's breath came thicker and faster as they

strove on, the sweat in the heated place
trickling down their faces in glittering
beads ; and the fight had grown furious as
each, yielding to the fierce excitement of
standing face to face with an enemy, strove
with all his might to rob that foeman of his
life.

At last, being the stronger and more skilful
with his weapon, Gil drove his adversary
back, step by step, delivering thrusts with
lightning-like rapidity, every one as it succeeded
the other being more feebly parried ;
and at last, with a strange sense of gratified
passion in his breast, Gil pressed him
more sorely, as he felt that he was in
his power, when, just as he felt that victory
was his, the tables were turned, for Sir
Mark's sword which he held snapped short
off at the hilt, and it was only by stepping
sharply back that Gil saved his life.

For, beside himself with fury. Sir Mark
seized the opportunity, and aimed so deadly

a thrust that it must have passed through
his opponent's body. Gil's rapid retrograde
movement saved him, however, for the moment,
though he tripped over the remains
of a mould, and fell headlong at his adversary's
feet.

^^ Slain in fair fight," cried Sir Mark, exultantly,
as, leaping forward, he placed his
foot upon his adversary's chest, and thrust
at his throat.

^^ Not yet," cried Gil, hoarsely. ^^ I am a
sailor."

As he spoke he caught the descending
blade in his hand, turned it aside, and it
passed into the charcoal floor, while, before
Sir Mark could repeat his thrust, he was sent
staggering back as Gil sprang to his feet.
Then, sharply striking aside a fresh thrust,
Gil closed with his adversary ; there was
a brief struggle ; with one hand holding Sir
Mark's sword-wrist, the other raised on high,
he was about to strike with his short keen

dagger, when a loud cry arrested him, and
Mace, followed by her father and his foreman
Croftly, ran in.

^*' Shame on thee, Gilbert Carr," cried
Mace, as she rushed between the adversaries.
^^Is this thy conduct towards my father's
guest ? "

Thy father's guest would have run me
through, mistress," he said, curtly. '' I did
but fight for life."

I'll have no more of this," cried the
founder, fiercely. ^' Gilbert Carr, there have
been too much of thy swash buckling ways''
'^ Nay, Master Cobbe, you are too hard
upon me'' said Gil. " It was a fair fight,
fairly provoked''

*' I'll not have my child made the prize
for any fighting," cried the founder, hotly.
Mace, this is your doing''

^^ If Gilbert Carr made me the object for
which his sword was bared," cried Mace,
coldly, '' he might have left it in itB sheath."

'' I have not deserved this at your hands,
Mace," whispered Gil. ^^ It is cruel, indeed."

Mace spoke not, but as she saw her lover's
emotion she felt that she would rather bite
out her tongue than say such words again.

'^ I forbade you my place, Gil Carr,"
cried the founder. '' You are no friend tome.
Sir Mark is my guest, and an officer
of the King, whom you have assailed, so get
you gone ere the officers of justice lay you
by the heels''

'^ I fear no officers of justice," cried Gil,
angrily; ^^ and I presume Sir Mark is too
much of a gentleman to shelter himself
behind their staves''

^' But you need fear them," cried the
founder angrily. ^'What is this I hear of
AbelChurr?"

^^ What has he dared to tell?" cried Gil,
forgetting himself for the moment.

Men with mute lips tell nought," said
the founder. '^ Where is Abel Churr ?"

'^ I know not," replied Gil.

'' Nay, but you should know," continued
the founder, as Master Peasegood and Father
Brisdone came panting in from an unsuccessful
search. '^ Tom Croftly, tell what
you heard. Abel Churr was an idle raff,
but he was a man, and one of us here."

As he spoke Mace's countenance changed,
and she drew nearer to Gril.

'' I don't know much, master," said the
countryman slowly, '^ only that seven days
ago I saw Abel Churr half drunken, and he
was boasting that he knew a secret of the
captain's there which would hang him if it
was known."

'' He must have told you, too, Father
Brisdone," said Master Peasegood, quickly.

*' Abel Churr did confess to me when I
encountered him in the woods, Brother
Peasegood, but the words uttered in confession
are sacred. I cannot tell."

'^ Not if a man's character is at stake,"
cried Master Peasegood.

I'll soon end this," said the founder, as
Gil quietly replaced his doublet and took his
sword from Sir Mark's hand. " Gil Carr,
speak out like a man. Where is Abel
Churr?"

I do not know," replied Gil, firmly.
'^ Had he some secret of yours?"
Gil paused for a moment, and his eyes
encountered those of Mace gazing at him ina
beseeching way, when a change seemed to
come over him, and he replied frankly —
Yes."

"What was it?"

'^ A secret that I wished to keep."
How did he find it out ? " said the
founder.

'' How do I know, sir ? By creeping
through the wood, and dogging my steps, I
suppose."

^' When did you see liii last ?" said the
founder.

^^ A week ago."

-Where?"

In the woods," replied Gil, who submitted
to the examination as it were in
obedience to Mace's eyes.

And what passed there ? " said the
founder.

"I'll tell you," replied Gil. "I found
him prying into my affairs, and I seized
him."

And threatened him ? "

Yes ; I swore I would hang him to the
yardarm of my ship if I caught him again."

Yes— and then ? "

'' Then I let him go."

And since then ?"

I have not seen him since."

Mace's eyes brightened with satisfaction,
and Gil, as he stood there alone, felt recompensed
for much of the past, as it seemed to

him that now he was in trouble she was
turning to him.

Sir Thomas Beckley must know this,"
cried the founder. 'the suspicion is that
Abel Churr has been foully dealt with, and
that you, Gilbert Carr, are to blame."

And I say that whoever charges me
with hurt to Abel Churr lies," cried Gil,
hotly. '' The scoundrel had a secret of
mine in his keeping, and I did threaten him,
but I let him go when I had caught him
robbing me, with such a warning that I felt
he would never come again."

There was truth in his bearing, but somehow
there was only one present who believed
him, as he stood there alone, while the
founder said coldly,

^' Gilbert Carr, there's a dark suspicion
hanging over thee. It may be that the deed
was not done by thee, but by orders to thy
men ; but, anyway, it behoves thee to clear
thyself by finding Abel Churr. Till you

can do that, come upon my premises no
more. Sir Mark, we are a rough people
here, and set at naught some of the laws,
but we hold a man's life in good esteem. I
shall see Sir Thomas, our justice, in the
morning, and no stone will be left unturned
to find this wretched man."

Gilbert Carr," said Master Peasegood,
advancing; " speak out once more — Do you
know aught of this wretched man ? "

"I have said all I know. Master Peasegood,"
replied Gil, quietly. '' I can say no more."

We must wait. Master Cobbe," said the
parson. ^' Seven days are but a short time.
He will come back perhaps ere long."

I hope he will'' said the founder, firmly.
'gilbert Carr, this is my land, and no place
for thee."

Gil looked at him angrily, and then at
Mace, whose glance disarmed him once again.

'^As you will. Master Cobbe," he said.
'' Some day perhaps you may regret this

VOL. I. Y

harshness to so old a friend. Mace, as I am
to be dismissed, goodbye till we meet again
in better times."

He advanced and held out his hand, but
Sir Mark, who was near her, interposed.

Stand back, sir," he said ; " no man
with such a suspicion resting upon him shall
touch Mistress Cobbe's hand."

Gril seized him by the shoulder, and with
one swing hurled him aside.

^^ Your hand, MaceCobbe," he said, holding
out his own, in which she laid hers for a few
moments, before hurrying to her father's side.

A dead silence had fallen on the group,
and as Gil turned to go he felt that appearances
were sadly against him, though it
would be vain to say more then. Striding
across the foundry he made for the open
door, angry even unto passion, but helpless
under the pressure of opinion. He was not
prepared for the fresh reverse that he
encountered, as, after turning to exchange

a fierce glance with Sir Mark, which said
plainly enough, '^ We shall meet again," he
was half startled by finding his way barred
by Mother Goodhugh, who was standing in
the doorway, full in the red light cast by
the furnace.

He drew back as the old woman moved
her stick and stepped into the building.

^* Is he to be screened?" she cried aloud.
^^ I say, is he to be screened ? Your friend,
Master Cobbe — the friend of your child — the
man you mean to make your son. I say, is
he to be screened ? "

Hold thy prate," cried the founder,
angrily. '^ Mother Goodhugh, I am in no
humour to listen to thee now."

** Nay, but thou shalt listen. I say is he
to be screened ? Gil Carr," she cried, turning
upon him sharply, '^ where is Abel
Churr ? "

^^ Stand aside, woman," cried Gil. ^' I
know not."

y2

'' But you do know," cried Mother Good-hugh.
'' He was my only friend, and I will
have all brought to light. He went to follow
you in the forest. You met him — speak,
did you not meet him ? "

'' I did," said Gil sharply.

'rand you murdered him'' cried the old
woman. ^' Ha, ha, ha ! As I said — as I said ;
more care for the house of Cobbe. The
curses fall thick and fast. As I said, as I
said. Yes, get you gone, murderer, and
you, good people, have the forest searched
for the remains of his victim. He must be
found — he must be found."

Gil turned upon her angrily, but he did
not speak. He strode from the building, out
into the summer night, hot and angry; and
as he went along the lane he could hear the
old woman's shrillest tone as she shouted
after him ; and even the hurrying water in
the race towards the wheel seemed to repeat
the word ^' Murderer," in his ears.

CHAPTER XVIII.

HOW A CASEMENT WAS OPENED.

In the days which followed there was a diligent
search for Abel Churr, in which Gilbert
Carr's men joined hands with those of the
founder, for reasons best known to Gil ; and
every likely place in the forest was searched
save the ravine leading to the cave entry,
and that was gone over by Gil's men alone.
At times there might be one or two who felt
disposed to give Gil the credit of having
made away with a man who had been a spy
upon his actions, but very little was said on
the matter, the common people, as a body,
liking the captain and his men, whose return
from a voyage was heartily welcomed, even

though at times they were rather more than
free.

Those who spoke out and sided with
Mother Goodhugh received hints to keep their
tongues more quiet, the hints being traceable
to Wat Kilby ; but there was but little
need to speak. Gil was too great a favourite;
and when there was some talk (on the part
of Sir Thomas Beckley) of the captain being
arrested and inquisitions made. Sir Thomas
received so broad a hint from his daughter
not to interfere with Gil, and also from the
captain's followers, to let matters rest, that
he hastily obeyed.

** I'm not going to blame thee, skipper,"
said Wat Kilby, one day when the heat of
the search was over ; ^ ' but wouldn't it have
been better to have shut him up for a bit
till we started, and then have taken him
away ? "

The captain turned sharply round upon
him.

'^ Look here, Wat," he said ; ^^ do you
believe that I have murdered Abel Churr ? "

Lord, no, lad, not murdered ; that be too
terrifying a word. Pookedhim — executed him
for a spy — looked him ; and quite right too."

'^ Once for all," cried the captain, '' let it
be fully understood by you, and you can
tell the men, that I caught Abel Churr in
the store, and, after frightening him, I let
him go, making him swear that he would
never approach the place or divulge its
position to a soul."

Do you want me to tell the lads that ? '"
said Wat.

^' Yes, of course."

'* Nay, then Ism a mutineer. I'm not
going to help 'em to such words as that."

'why not?"
** Why not, skipper? Because it would
lower you in the eyes of every man of the
crew. What ! after the oath we swore, and
after the way the boys have kept it, for you,

our captain, to go and let loose a vermin
who had broken in and was robbing you,
perhaps hunting out the savings and trade
every man has got stored up here? Nay,
captain, it would be degrading you in the
eyes of all."

^' What would you have done, then ? "

^^ What would I have done?" said Wat.
'^ Why, same as you did — killed him like
the vermin he was, and buried him in the
mixed or under the stones."

^^You really believe, then, that I killed
this man in cold blood ? "

"Why, of course, skipper ; you couldn't do
otherwise. As to a man and cold blood ! bah !
he was a rat, and he was caught. Do you know
how the lads searched the little valley ? "

a No."

'' Crept through the wood, looked the
grass aside, and sat down and smoked," said
Wat with a chuckle.

*^ Then they did not properly search it ?"

a

Of course not," cried Wat, gruffly.
*' You don't suppose they wanted to find
that girt fox, do you ? "

"Wat," cried the captain angrily, "you
disobeyed my orders. That place shall be
searched, and that at once."

"What — and try to warm up the scent
again, captain ? Nay, he's settled, let
sleeping dogs lie. The world's all the better
for there being no Abel Churr ; and the
adders and things can have a chance of
marrying and having families without being
pulled out of their holes by the tail."

As he spoke, the old sailor turned away,
and Gil walked to the cottage where he
had his temporary home.

That night on the dark bank in front of
the Pool-house four glowworms shone out for
the first time for weeks, and Gil Carr walked
across the little swing-bridge towards the
founder's garden.

The sight of a few glowworms on that

bank might have been expected after the
many that had been placed there at various
times by Gil, but they never stayed long,
for the blackbird or thrush generally made a
meal of them; and when, on that night,
Mace went up to her room, glancing out as
was her custom before drawing the blind,
she knew that before long there would be
some one waiting beneath the casement, and
her heart began to beat.

She had not seen Gil since the evening of
his encounter with Sir Mark, and, truth to
tell, she had watched night after night to see
if he would try to see her, and sad of heart
had gone to her sleepless couch without
a sign.

Sir Mark was still there, but was to leave
in a day or two, having sent on his report
of the works, and pleading ill-health as a
reason for staying longer. But his conduct
to her had changed. There was less of the
sighing gallant in his manner, though he

appeared pained by her coldness, and treated
her with studied respect.

The founder and he seemed to be growing
firm friends, though Mace with pain saw
that the visitor was gaining an ascendancy
over her father's actions that augured no
future good.

Janet was with her in her room that
night, and meaningly drew her attention to
the tiny lights, but received so sharp a look
for her pains that she ventured to say no
more, and soon after left the room to go and
stand irresolutely in the passage, thinking.

^' He's there," she said, with malicious
glee lighting up her eyes; "and he's forbidden
to come. He played with me and
tricked me, professing so much and then
laughing at me, and telling me I was not to
listen to old Wat Kilby. Suppose I trick
him."

She paused, thinking for a few moments,
and then slipping into a small room — half

dressing-room, half bureau — she took a cloak
and hood from a peg and slipped them on.

Meanwhile Gil had passed softly into the
garden, and stood waiting in the darkness of
the summer night, to see if Mace's looks
towards him had any meaning, and he had
not waited long before a faint click told him
that the casement had been opened.

Mace."

^^Gil."

^^ Why have you come ? "

^^ Because you were in trouble, Gil, and I
wished to say a word or two of comfort, and
to ask you of Abel Churr."

'^ I know what you would say," he said,
softly. ^^ Am I guilty ? Isn't not so ? "

^^Yes."

He laughed gently as he strained his eyes
to try and make out the outlines of her sweet
face.

'' Mace," he said, ^4t is like old times to
be here again, and there is more light and

hope in my heart than there has been for
weeks. Let me answer you with another
question. If I were guilty, Mace, should I be
here?"

^'No," she said softly, as her hand stole
down, white and soft, amongst the roses, to
be seized and held to his breast. " But tell
me, Gil, with your own lips, that you are
innocent ; that this charge is not true, and I
will believe you."

^^ Mace, child, so help me "

*^ Stop," she whispered, hastily ; *' the man
who loves me needs no oaths. Tell me on
your word, Gil, as a gentleman, that you are
guiltless, and I will believe."

'^ There is my hand," he whispered ;
*^ place yours within it. There; does it
burn ?"

''No, "she whispered ; ^' it is cool and soft."

^^Yes," he said, quietly; ^^but if it were

stained with Abel Churr's blood it would

burn and flush at the touch of your innocent

palm. If I said there had never been blood
upon it, child, I should lie ; but it has been
the blood of an enemy, shed in fair fight ;
and as often," he added, with a laugh, '^ it
has been my own. Mace, you have never
misjudged me, darling ? Tell me that you
never believed me to be the assassin they
would make me out."

'' Never, Gil."

^' Thank God, then, that I was suspected."

'^ What ? " she cried, starting.

'' I say thank God that I was suspected."

Why ? "

^* Because it has swept away the clouds
between us, and turned your gentle heart tome
because I was in pain and trouble : that
is all."

Is that all, Gil ? Did I ever turn from
thee ? " she faltered.

^^Yes," he said with a half-laugh, "you
believed me false and trifling with Mistress
Anne Beckley, whom I had saved from the

annoyance offered by my men ; and I, poor
silly-pated fool, believed you to care for
that coxcomb Sir Mark, whom, thank heaven,
you saved from an unkindly blow. Yes,
sweet, I have been a fool, a jealous, weak,
but always loving fool. Forgive me, for I
must go."

Forgive you, Gil ? Will you forgive me
my want of trust ? "

^'With all my heart, sweet; and now I
must leave you. Mace, child, thou art my
wife, or the wife of no man, come what may.
If I stay from you it is because I would
not anger thy father by these pitiful nightly
visits. I love you too well, child, to come
like this. Perhaps in a week or two I shall
be away across the seas, where night and
day your face will be my hope ; Mace, your
dear eyes will be the stars by which I steer.
Good-bye, sweet, good-bye."

He held her hand tightly in his, and it
clung to his in return. Then placing his

left hand on the heavy trellis, and a foot on
the sill below her casement, he raised himself
to a level with her face, and as he
drew her to him lips touched lips for a brief
moment, and then he lightly dropped back
again, as a quick rustling noise, and a hasty
exclamation, followed by steps, fell upon his
ear.

'^ I must go," he whispered, '' for both
our sakes. Good-bye."

'' Good-bye."

Plain, homely words ; but they meant
much as spoken then.

Turning once more to gaze up at the
window, Gil was walking rapidly the next
moment towards the path, when a dark
figure started up in his way.

END OF VOL. I.

.Jillllii

3 0112 045833081

OF Thou

University

or I Li Noise

Ni.Z

Granville Club

SWEET MACE

A SUSSEX LEGEND OF THE IRON TIMES.

BY

G. MAI^YILLE FETsTlN'.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. II.

LONDON: CHAPMAN & HALL,

LIMITED.

1884.

\ All Rights Reserved.]

NICHOLS AND SONS, PRINTERS,

25, PARLIAMENT STREET.

CONTENTS.

VOLUME 11.

I. How Janet was elapsed in the wrong

Arms 1

II. How Sir Mark showed his Heart . 12

III. How Wat Kilby led the Way . . 27

IV. How TWO WENT A-fishing, AND WHAT THEY

CAUGHT .49

V. How Sir Mark visited Dame Beckley's

Garden of Simples •70
VI. How Sweet Mace asked for a Cup of

Water 95

VII. How THE Big Howitzer was fired . 120

VIII. How Sir Mark's Men came to Grief . 135

IX. How Wat Kilby was not ducked . .147

X. How Sir Mark played his Cards . .157

XI. How Gil interrupted a Discussion . 176

XII. How the Game went against Master

Combe . 196

Xii How Mistress Anne was unquiet, and

how the Founder came to Terms . 212

PAGE
CHAP.

XIV. How Sill Mark put on the First Chain 232

XV. How Mace objected to her Bargain . 244

XVI. How Sir Mark knocked away Two

Props-••••

XVII. How Mace made a Promise .

XVIII. How Tom Croftly spoke his Mind . 292

XIX. How Mother Goodhugh went to work . 311




CHAPTER I.

HOW JANET WAS CLASPED IN THE WRONG ARMS.

A SIGNAL made with four glowworms can be
seen by many who happen to be gazing out
into the darkness of the night. Janet had
seen them plainly, and, as it happened, so
had the founder, who took down and
buckled on his sword, and then crept cautiously
to Sir Mark's chamber.

'^ Are you awake ?" he whispered.

"Yes, yes," cried Sir Mark, starting up
with a cry ; " is aught the matter ?"

'* Hush, man," whispered the founder, '' or
you'll alarm the house. One would think

VOL. II. B

I had told tho that one was setting spark to
the powder-barrels in the cellar."

*^ Powder-barrels in the cellar ?" said Sir
Mark, in a hoarse whisper.

^^ Of course. Where would'st have them
for safety ? Tut, man, it is not Guido
Fawkes who has come. He is here."

^^What, Fawkes?"

'-' Nay, how dense thou art. Up and dress
quickly. He is in the garden, I'll wager,
trying to keep tryst with my child. Dress
quickly, and bring thy sword. If he be
not pricked to-night as a warning my name
is not Cobbe. I'll wait thee in the passage
below."

He slipped out on to the broad landing,
and waited, when, to his surprise and rage,
he saw a figure hooded and cloaked, glide
down the stairs and out of the front
door, which creaked lightly as the girl passed
through.

'-^ Curse her !" he muttered. '^ I could slay

her at once, but I'll take her with him. Pest
on this fellow, how long he is ! "

He was completely out of patience when
he heard the stairs creak, and Sir Mark
crept softly down.

'^ Quick ! " the founder cried, " or we shall
be too late. Now," he whispered, '^ go you
and watch, sword in hand, by the bridge.
You can manage without going in this time,
while I search the garden. We'll trap him
to-night. How dare he come?"

The couple separated, and, each taking
his apportioned part, Gil Carr's chance
of escape seemed small indeed. He was
beneath Mace's window, and in another
minute the founder, sword in hand, would
have been upon him, had not a faint cry
from another part of the garden drawn him
aside to where, dimly enough, he could see
Mace's cloak and hood beside a tall dark
figure.

The founder stood watching for a few
b2

minutes, and, sooth to say, hesitating ; for
now it had come to a point, he was loth to
injure Gil, partly from a latent liking for
him, partly because of his power amongst
the people of the place. But the recollection
of Abel Churr's disappearance made
his heart grow stern, and, with the full
determination to chastise Gil for his insolence
in coming to the house after being so
sternly forbidden, he cautiously advanced to
where the figures were standing.

The catching of a rose-thorn in his
doublet and the sharp rustle the twig gave
in being released sufficed to alarm the wearer
of the cloak, and she glided quickly down
the garden-walk with her companion, disappearing
from the founder's gaze; and,
though he followed them cautiously, they
must have gone down some side-path, for
he could not see them again.

^' Pest on them ! " he muttered. '^ They
knew I was on the watch."

Under this impression he crept cautiously
back towards the house, expecting to see
them there; but, though he waited sometime,
there was no sign, and he went down
the garden again, which, fortunately for
Gil, was sufficiently extensive to allow of
the meeting in progress going on unheard.

The founder was not aware of the fact,
but more than once in the darkness he was
literally hunting the two figures, which kept
gliding on before him, avoiding him almost
by a miracle, till in sheer weariness and
disgust he returned to where Sir Mark was
impatiently watching near the bridge.

'' Well ! Hast seen them ?" he said.

'' Nay," said the founder, '' only once.
We'll wait here and see if they come."

The words had scarcely left his lips before
he uttered an exclamation, and ran
towards the house, just in time to catch a
dark figure stealing towards the door.

'^ Quick!" he whispered to Sir Mark, who

had followed him ; and, half-carrying the
captive within doors, the founder tore aside
the hood, exclaiming against his daughter
for her wanton ways.

^^ What will Sir Mark think of you?" he

cried angrily. ^^ He will Why, curse

the girl ; it's Janet ! "

Janet it was, who on the spur of the moment
had masqueraded as her mistress, gone
down the garden, and with throbbing heart
thrown herself as she believed in Gil's way.
For he suddenly seized her in his arms, and,
though she uttered a faint cry and escaped,
she took care not to go beyond his vision,
but led him a Will-o'-the-wisp kind of dance
from walk to walk, till, thinking she had
been sufficiently coy, she stopped short, quite
out of breath, and allowed herself to be
caught.

He who captured her was sharper of eyesight,
and, in spite of the cloak and hood,
not for a moment deceived. He had made

too much use of his eyes by night for them
to play him false; and, as once more he
caught the girl in his arms, he held her
tightly, exclaiming —

'why, Janet, you pretty little witch,
have I caught thee at last?"

The girl no sooner felt the rough face of
her captor against hers than she struggled
vigorously, though in vain.

^^Why, it be Mas' Wat Kilby," she
panted.

^* Wat Kilby it is, my darling," he replied
in an amorous growl. ^^ Who did you think
it was?"

^^ Never mind," cried the girl ; " loose me,
you wicked old bear, or I'll shriek for help.
There —quick— there's some one coming."

It was so true that Wat Kilby relaxed his
grip, all but that upon one of the girl's
wrists, and this he held as together they
hurried through the garden on tiptoe, Janet,
becoming more amiable, whispering her

companion to go cautiously '^ for heaven's
sake!"

He obeyed her, and together they glided
from path to path of the great bosky, tree-shadowed
garden, literally hunted from place
to place by the founder, until, finding that
he had given up the quest, Janet freed herself
from the grasp of Wat Kilby and made
for the door, quite satisfied with her escapade,
and only thinking now of getting
safely back.

^^ A horrible old bear ! " she muttered; and
then her heart sank, for a figure she knew to
be that of her master made at her, and she
was caught by the wrist.

Meanwhile, Wat Kilby, who had followed
at a short distance, muttering to himself,
and calling Janet ^'a coy little craft," ^^a
tricks little caravel," and half-a-dozen
more suitable nautical terms expressive of
her distant ways and tempting prettiness,
suddenly became aware of the danger to his

leader. For the founder at the end of a few
minutes came out of the house with Sir
Mark, and posted himself where he would
be certain to encounter Gil as he came away.

'sand then there might be mischief,"
growled the old sailor. " If the skipper
went down, it would break little beauty's
heart ; so it would if he pricked her father.
This is the second time I've saved him
through being here. Wonder whether he'll
be ungrateful enough to turn upon me now
for doing a bit o' gentle courting on my own
account.

^^ Ho, ho, ho," he chuckled ; ^^ just as if a
man could ever be too old to love a pretty
girl. Old women are old women, and not
much account ; but a staunch, sturdy, seasoned
man, why he's like old oak, and makes
the best o' building wood. Now, then,
where's the skipper ? It's high time for us
to be sheering off."

He pretty well knew from former observations

where to encounter Gil; and, creeping
cautiously amongst the bushes, he waited his
time, and rose up before him as he was
making for the bridge.

^' All right, skipper," he whispered.
^^ Breakers ahead ! Hard down, and let's get
back the other way."

Gil knew Wat too well to think that he
would deceive him or be mistaken, and,
placing himself under his guidance, he followed
him to the back of the garden, where
they leaped the fence, and at last reached
the edge of the pool

*^ There's no other way to get back without
being seen, skipper," whispered Wat.
'^ We must wade across here ; and, if it gets
too deep, try a swim. They're watching to
poor us by the bridge."

'^ Who is watching?" whispered Gil.

^' Mas' Cobbe and that dandy Jack."

^*Let them watch!" muttered Gil, as he
thought of his parting from Mace that night ;

and with light heart, and a feeling of readiness
to encounter anything for his young love's
sake, the young man followed his companion
into the cold, dark waters of the Pool.

CHAPTER II.

HOW SIR MARK SHOWED HIS HEART.

Have I drunk some love potion ?" muttered
Sir Mark to himself very early the next
morning, *' or am I going back to my calf-love
days ? Here have I enjoyed more conquests
than any man at the court. I came
down to the Moat, and pretty Mistress Anne
Beckley throws herself into my arms ; then
I come on here to find myself regularly
taken — trapped as it were. She does what
she likes with me, even as she does with that
bully, Carr. I fight against it, and make
myself worse. I declare I will think of her
no more, but go back and swear allegiance
to pretty red-haired Mistress Anne, when

Mace's eyes rise up before me, and turn me
from my way. She is so calm and sweet,
and seems so pure, that I am beaten."

He walked up and down the old parlour,
where Janet was bringing in the various
preparations for the breakfast, coquetting
about till she caught his eye and smiled and
looked down, throwing out invitation after
invitation, when, as she passed close to him,
he caught her in his arms and kissed her,
easily overcoming the girl's faint opposition,
and repeating the salute till she broke away
and made off, leaving him smiling at his
success.

Why, there isn't a woman living that I
could not win," he said to himself. " Bah !
What an idiot I am. What are the kisses of
such a creature as that worth compared to
the slightest smile of such a girl as Mace ?
I am sick at heart !"

He walked up and down again, and just
then Janet came back, mincing and blushing,

and making a great pretence of being
terribly alarmed, when, to her disgust, she
found that Sir Mark was so abstracted that
he paid not the slightest heed to her presence,
but walked straight to the window,
and stood gazing out into the garden.

Poor Janet's face was a study as she
rattled the breakfast-plates and knives,
thumped dishes down upon the table, and
coughed to take the visitor's attention, but
all in vain. She had rapidly recovered from
the snubbing administered by her master,
and was congratulating herself upon her
conquest, when now. all at once, when the
visitor's last kiss was still wet upon her lips,
he had turned away.

Janet tried in vain to take his attention,
and ended by flouncing out of the old
parlour, hot with indignant wrath.

No," mused Sir Mark, whose eyes were
resting upon Mace, where, sweet and fresh
as the flowers she was picking, she wandered

down one of the garden walks ; " the old
man is wrong. She is not the girl to trifle.
She is not the woman a man might make his
mistress. It is all folly about their meetings.
Carr may play the Spanish gallant beneath
her window, but if any meeting has been
held it has been with that gamesome, wanton
jade — Janet."

'' How beautiful she is ! " he muttered, as,
forgetful of Janet's presence and the kisses
he had taken, he gazed with kindling eyes
at the gentle, pallid face, lit up with the
consciousness of love for Gil and of his
truth. For there was a happy smile on
Mace's lip that morning, and her face, that
had of late been pale, was now tinged with
a tender peachy bloom. There was grace
in her every movement, and Mark Leslie's
heart beat fast.

'' No," he said, " she is too pure and innocent
to become the mistress of any man.
Curse it all, no one could be such a villain

as to wrong her," he cried, with a sudden
access of morality that had not existed in
his composition a few weeks back. '^ She is
lovely enough to be the wife of any man.
Suppose that simple stuff gown and white
linen kerchief, cap, and cuffs were exchanged
for a rich brocade, with jewels in her hair,
and round that soft, sweet neck, which would
tempt a man to risk his salvation that he
might clasp it. Curse me, I wish I were
one of the flowers she is plucking with those
delicious fingers. What does it mean — has
she bewitched me, or, as I say, has some
love-philtre been at work ? "

'^ Curse me, if I care what it is ! '' he cried
at last, excitedly, as he still gazed through
the casement at the unconscious girl. '' She'd
be a wife for a prince. Her knowledge is
wonderful; her mien purity and sweetness
combined ; her voice low and silvery, as if
music had assisted at her birth. Why not
win her and wed her, and at once ? "

Humph ! '' he muttered. " Why not ?
Old Cobbe must be as rich as any Jew, whilst
I am as poor as a beggar. He'd be glad
enough to see her Dame Leslie — Dame Mace
Leslie. How provoking that I must go so
soon, when I might have been making sure
my position. Never mind, it may not be
too late. And, curse me, I'll do it, for she
is lovely."

^^ Ah, Sir Mark, stolen glances at that
jade?" said the founder, who had just entered
the room unperceived, and who was watching
curiously the interest taken by the
young man in his daughter.

'' Master Cobbe ! " exclaimed Sir Mark,
loudly and angrily. '' Shame upon you, sir,
to speak of your child like that."
" She should behave more seemly, then,"
said the founder, gruffly.

More seemly ! " cried Sir Mark. " Look
at her. Did'st ever see one more sweet and
pure of mien ? See the candour and gentle-vol.

II. c

ness upon her brow and lip. You are wrong,
Master Cobbe, you are wrong ; my life upon
it you wrong her by your suspicions of her
interviews with Carr."

Do I ?" said the founder, hotly. '' Let's
have her in, then, and ask her. I grant
that she is too truthful to lie."

"Nay, nay!" cried Sir Mark, excitedly;
I would not have her insulted by such suspicions.
Your daughter is a lady. It would
be cruel."

Odds life, man' cried the founder, half
amused by the other's earnestness. '^ Whom
have we here — the King's champion ? "

The Queen's, you should fc^ay. Master
Cobbe," replied the other. '' Master Cobbe,
you do not understand your daughter's
ways."

^'I understand my own," said the founder,
gruffly, '' and I made her. She's my own
flesh and blood. Sir Mark. Bah ! I understand
her whims and follies better than you."

"Nay!" cried Sir Mark. 'you roused
me up last night to come and be a witness
of the truth of thy suspicions that sweet
Mistress Mace held clandestine meetings
with Captain Carr, though I would have
wagered my life upon the suspicions being
false."

Thou did'st not say such a word last
night," said the founder drily.

^* Nay, how could I force my opinion
upon you ? " said Sir Mark. '^ I could only
follow, and pray that you were wrong ; and
what did you show me for result, when you
had, as you thought, forced me to be an
unwilling witness of sweet Mistress Mace's
shame ? "

'^ I saw no unwillingness," said the
founder, drily; ^'I thought thou obeyed'st
it with eager joy."

^' Nay, but I was unwilling : and my
alacrity was to have revenge upon the man
who was searing my poor heart. And then
c 2

what did you show me when you had made
your capture ? That wretched drab of a
serving-girls''

Am I ? " muttered Janet, who had half
entered the room, and had heard his words.

^* Well, I am wrong' growled the
founder ; " and I am glad of it. I'd give
something to know that Gil Carr's visits had
all been to see yon wench."

^^ Rely upon it they were, Master Cobbe.
My life upon it they were," said Sir Mark,
eagerly.

^' Hah ! " ejaculated the founder ; ^' rely
upon it, eh ? And why, pray, Sir Mark,
dost thou take so sudden an interest in my
child?"

Sudden, sir ? Nay, it is not sudden.
From the first moment I saw Mistress
Mace "

Thou love's her. Of course ; the old
story that has been poured into silly maidens'
ears from the beginning of the world. Stop,

sir, listen to me," he continued, as Sir Mark
was about to speak. " I am not a learned
theology man, like Master Peasegood or
Father Brisdone, but, as you say, I'd
wager my life that, when the serpent urged
pretty little, innocent Mistress Eve to take
the forbidden fruit, he gave her a lesson or
two in the art of love, and upset her for the
rest of her life."

Maybe he did," said Sir Mark, smiling ;
but the serpent was insincere, and I am
no serpent."

How do I know that, young man ? "
said the founder, laying his hand upon the
other's breast. " I've been thinking a good
deal about your visit lately, and I will tell
you flat that I have kept you here as a
scarecrow."

A scarecrow ? "

'* Yes, to frighten off that marauding kite,
Gil Carr, who was getting far too sweet
upon my simple child."

** Scarecrow ! Serpent ! Nay, Master
Cobbe, I am neither," cried Sir Mark,
whose eyes had rested upon Mace as her
father spoke, and gained such an access of
passion as they had lit bee-like on the honey-scented
blossom that he was ready to speak
out plainly now.

As I said before, how do I know that ? "

Because I tell you now, as a gentleman
of his Majesty King James's household, that
I love Mistress Mace with all my heart."

And I tell thee flat again. Sir Mark,
that, gentleman of his Majesty King James's
household though you be, I would sooner
believe the words as coming from some
simple gentleman of our parts."

What am I to say to you, then ? " said
Sir Mark, excitedly.

Nothing at all," replied the founder,
bluntly. " Of course you love the girl —
everyone does who sees her ; but what of
that?"

"What of that? Why, Master Cobbe, I
would fain make her my dear wife."

Thy wife ? My little Mace— my simple-hearted
child, wife of a gay spark of a
courtier — a knight of King James. Nonsense,
man ; nonsense ! Trash ! "

It does take thee by surprise, no doubt,"
said Sir Mark, with a little hauteur ; '' but
it would not be the first time that a knight
of my position had stooped to marry a
worthy yeoman's daughter."

Thought a modest youth," said the
founder, with a dry chuckle ; ^^ and I suppose
it would be a great stoop for the hawk
to come down from on high to pick up my
little dove. And to keep up this style of
language, good Sir Mark, I suppose thy
hawk's nest is very well feathered — thou art
rich?"

"Well — no," said Sir Mark, hesitating;
«' not rich ; but my position warrants my

assuming to take a wife from the highest in
the land."

So you come and pick my little tit,"
said the founder. '' Well, and a very good
taste, Sir Mark. She is, as you say, a beautiful
girl, and she will have fifteen thousand
pounds down on her wedding-day for portion."


Fifteen thousand pounds ! " exclaimed
Sir Mark.

'' And twice as much more — perhaps three
times — when I die," said the founder, with a
smile of self-satisfaction, which increased ashe
saw Sir Mark move his hand as he recovered
from his surprise.

Money is no object to me," he said ;
I love Mistress Mace for her worth alone."

And you'd marry her without a penny."

Ye — es, of course," cried Sir Mark ;
'' give me your consent."

Nay — nay, my lad, not T," said the

founder. '' My Mace is no meet match for
thee ; and, as my guest, I ask you to say no
foolish nonsense to the child. She has had
silly notions enough put into her head by
Gil Carr."

But that is all over now. Master Cobbe,"
cried Sir Mark. '* I pray you give me your
consent. I may be recalled to-day."

I am glad to hear it," said the founder.
You have been here too long, and I don't
know, even now, that it is all over with Gil
Carr. I'm not going to break my child's
heart, and — hey-day, tit, child, what's
wrong ? " he cried, as, with a face white as
ashes, and her eyes dilate with horror.
Mace ran quickly into the room HI ) v 3 1
by Janet.

** Gil ! father," she cried, hoarsely ; and
then, with a shudder, her eyes closed and
her head sank upon his breast.

Why, child, what now ? Has he dared ?
Speak, wench," he cried, stamping his foot.

as he turned upon the trembling serving-maid,
" what is it ? "

Captain Culverin, master," she whispered,
trembling—" Mas' Wat Kilby."

What of them, fool?" cried the founder,
excitedly.

Drowned, master — in the Pool, and
they're bringing their bodies now ashore'*

CHAPTER III.

HOW WAT Kirby LED THE WAY.

In his excitement the founder hastily laid
Mace on the couch and rushed out, when
Sir Mark was about to run to the poor
girls side, to seize his opportunity, and
press his lips to hers, but he was forestalled
by Janet, who, with flashing eyes, leaped
between them to cry spitefully,

'' Nay; and if thou must kiss aught, kiss
me. Thou can'st not want to kiss two
maidens in one day."

With an angry ejaculation Sir Mark
turned aside and followed the founder, who
was running along the side of the Pool to
where a group of his people were busy round

a boat just drawn up close to the edge,
with Father Brisdone and Master Pease-good
in the midst, giving directions to the
men who were lifting a couple of bodies
towards a shed half-filled with soft dogwood
charcoal.

For it had been an awkward night with
Gil Carr and his companion.

They had plunged boldly into the Pool,
finding it at the side come up to mid thigh,
and the bottom sandy ; but before they had
cautiously proceeded far, taking care that
the water did not splash, it became shallower,
and Gil asked old Wat in a whisper
whether they were not too near the shore.

^^No," was the reply; ^^I know the Pool
well; this shallow runs right across. I've
seen the shoals of little fish sunning themselves
here by the thousand till some evil-minded
pirate of a luce has darted amongst
them and scattered them like a silver fleet
in the Spanish main. You follow me.

skipper, and let me lead thee for once in thy
life."

*^ You were disobeying my orders, Wassail
Gil, in a low whisper, as he followed
his lieutenant. ^* What were you doing in
Master Cobbe's garden?"

^^ Courting. Thank God for the ability
to court ! " growled Water

You dare to own it to my face ! "
'^ Nay, thought behind my back," growled
Wat; ^^ but I own it all the same. Where
would'st have been if I had not said to
myself, ' There's that pretty little soul Janet
longing to see me once again, and as it's
loving - night, and the skipper's courting
the mistress, faith I'll go and court the
maid'"

'' After I had forbidden it, Wat !"
^^ I am a man, all a man, good Captain
Gilbert Carr, and I say thank God for the
ability to love, and liking to taste sweet
lips."

^^ Thou arrant old coxcomb," cried Gil,
angrily. ^^ Why thou art woman mad! "

'' I am, thank God!" said Wat. '' Hah,
skipper, what would the world be without
women? Bless their bright eyes, and red
lips, and pretty prattling tongues — mind
that hole, it's a bit deeper — 1 don't know
whether I love best to be kissed or looked
by them''

^^ You old fool!"

'^ Ay, to be sure, skipper, it's a man's
nature to be a fool over a woman. It's
nature's remedy to keep us from being too
wise. As 1 was saying, I don't know which
I like best. If she kisses and fondles you
without a kick, why it's all sweet sugar and
milk and honey, and I smack my lips. If
she cries ' kiss me not, old bear,' and
struggles and books me, and pretends to
tear out my eyes with the ends of her pretty
fingers, and tugs my beard, and pulls out
the hairs, why it is pickles and sharp sorrel-sauce,

and hot peppers, and I smack my lips
and like it all the same. Ah, skipper, take
all the women out of the world, and you
may heave me overboard whenever you
like ! "

'' Women will be thy ruin," said Gil.

'' That's what Mas' Peasegood says, and
then he went on at me for an hour as good
as to say if ever I'm damned it will be for a
woman's sake, bless her for it. Mind, here's
another hole here. Zooks, I touched a big
eel with my boot."

^'But once for all," said Gil, ^^ I will not
have thee hanging like a chicken-thief about
Master Cobbe's garden."

"An' where would'st have been if I had
not been here to-night, skipper ? Suppose the
founder had come running at thee with his
naked sword ? The sight of a naked sword
always was too much for thee, my lad. Remember
how I taught thee to fence, and you
poor me your point the second time into my

thigh. Why, it would have been out sword
and at him, and thou lightest have hurt the
old boy."

^^ Old boy! He's fifteen years younger
than you if a day, Wat."

'bah! Years! What are years? He
was born after I was, but look at us. I'm a
younger man than he. A man's not old till
he feels old, skipper ; and when he feels old
heave him overboard if he be a sailor. If
he be a land-goer, dig a hole in his mother-earth
and pack him up warm to sprout out
and grow little boys for the future times.
Well, ash said, suppose you had pricked the
old man or he had pricked thee?"

'' The better for me it seems," said Gil,
grimly. ^' It would be the high road to his
favour. But are you sure you are right
here ? How dark it is ! "

'^ Right ? to be sure I am,'growled Wat ;
right as I was to-night in having a bit of a
talk with pretty Janet, lad."

*sand that I forbid for the future," said
Gil, stopping with the water nearly up to
his waist.

** Forbid away," grumbled Wat, ^^but as
long as my skipper goes amongst rocks Wat
Kilby goes as well to watch over him the
while."

'' Then that settles it, Wat," said Gil; '^
am going no more."

Ho, ho, ho !— ho, ho, ho ! " chuckled the
old sailor. *' Battles ! What ? have you and
young mistress fallen out ? "

** Hold your peace ! " said Gil, sharply ;
^' and learn to obey my orders."

Saints on earth, I'm like so much wax
or Stockholm pitch in his hands, and he
does with me as he likes. It's a brave deal
deeper here than I thought, skipper ; wait
till I have out my blade and feel my way
a bit."

He pulled out his sword, and began to
sound with it in the darkness ; but, save in

VOL. II. D

the direction of the house and garden, the
water seemed to grow deeper and deeper ;
and, after taking a step or two in different
directions, the old fellow drew back and
paused grumbling.

It's deeper than I thought," he said ;
the water goes down above my head everywhere.
Let's wait a bit."

What for ? " said Gil, angrily. " Do you
think the Pool will grow shallower ? This
comes of trusting another."

Well, I thought Snowed the bearings,"
said Water

What fools we'd look if it were daylight,"
said Gil ; '^ standing up to our
middles."

Chester," said Wat, correctively.

Well, to our chests or chins, if you like,"
cried Gil. " Heaven be praised that it is so
dark."

So don't say I," cried Wat, softly; " for

if it was not so dark I could see which way
to steer."

Do you mean to tell me, Wat," whispered
Gil, in a low angry voice, '' that you have
persuaded me into trusting to your guidance,
and that now you know nothing of the depth
of the Pool ? "

I could have sworn as that little sandy
reef ran right across to the other side."

'^ And now there is deep water all round."

Unless we go back."

Confusion ! " ejaculated Gil. '' Am I to
understand that you don't know the way at
all ? "

Well, skipper," growled Watt " I won't
say I don't know the bearings of the channels
; but if you like to take the rudder I'll
give up to you."

This being tantamount to a declaration
of his own want of knowledge, Gil began
cautiously to feel his way about, with the

d2

result that the first two steps he took placed
him up to his chin in water, that would, he
felt, be over his head at the next.

Dressed as he was, swimming was a most
difficult task, the high, heavy boots he wore
filling with water, and being sufficient to
drag him down ; and yet sooner or later he
felt that he should be obliged to trust to his
powers as a swimmer, and gave the hint to
his companion.

*^ Be ready to swim, Wat," he whispered.

*' No, no ; there be no need to swim," was
the response. ** Only hit the right place,
and it won't reach above your boots."

Gil did not respond, but tried in various
directions, always to find the water deepen ;
and at last he stood with it bubbling at his
lips, and he knew that the next moment he
must strike out.

Even now he could have made an effort
to go back ashore in the direction of the
house, but it might mean an encounter with

the founder, and this was to be avoided at
all hazards, for Mace's sake ; and after all,
he thought, what was before them was
nothing more than a good swim, for he
never once realised the fact that there was
danger in his position : it seemed more
ludicrous than full of peril.

He gave a glance round, and, having decided
in his own mind where lay the shore
they sought to reach, he uttered a low
warning to Wat, and tried to wade towards
it.

The second step rendered it necessary for
him to swim, and striking out boldly he had
gone a few yards before he turned his head
to speak to Wat.

^^ This way," he whispered; but there
was no response for a few moments, and
then, with a hoarse blowing noise, the old
sailor spluttered out,

^' Why, I went right over my head."

This added to the ridiculous side of the

question, and, contenting himself with bidding
Wat keep close, Gil swam on in the
direction of the shore, making very slow
progress, and now becoming aware for the
first time of the difficulty of the task he had
undertaken.

Wat was swimming close at hand, making
a good deal of noise, but Gil never thought
for a moment that he would have any difficulty,
and it was not until they had progressed
slowly for about five minutes that
the first intimation of danger came like a
chill of dread.

'scan you touch bottom, skipper'' said
the old fellow.

^^No," said Gil, after a pause. ^^ We are
in deep water. Why ? "

'^ Because, if we can't directly, I shall
drown ! "

^^ Nonsense, man," whispered back Gil.
swim slowly and steadily, and we shall
soon reach the shore."

There was no more said for a few moments,
and then from old Wat, in a low
panting voice —

'skipper, I slant never reach no shore;
and this aunt even brackish water, let alone
salt."

^^ Don't talk," said Gil, sharply; '^ bet
swim, man, with a long steady stroke."

^^Not even salt water," said Wat hoarsely,
as if he had not heard his leader's words.
^' Drowned in a miserable pond."

'' Will you hold your peace," whispered
Gil, " and swim on, man ? Who ever thinks
of drowning at such a time as this ? "

I'm nearly spent," said Wat, hoarsely.
'' I didn't think it would be so deep."

It was very hard work to keep himself
afloat ; and the knowledge that his old faithful
companion and follower was losing heart
robbed him of a good deal of the energy
which he had left. But Gil Carr had been
reared amongst dangers, and instead of

beginning to lament that they were in such
a condition, and praying or calling for help,
he tried to rouse up more energy both in
himself and his follower, though, as regarded
the latter, with but little result, for he awoke
more and more to the fact that Wat's straggles
were growing fainter each moment, and
that unless he could aid him he was a drowning
man.

He stopped swimming away from him
then, and taking a few strokes back, with
his boots seeming to be made of lead, he
tried to make out where Wat was swimming,
and only found him by the bubbling water
which was just closing over his head.

It required almost superhuman energy as,
with a vigorous snatch, Gil caught his follower
by the beard and drew his face above
water, holding him so while he drew breath.

"No use— save yourself!" panted Wat.
'^ I'm spent, skipper — spent."

'* Do as I bid you," cried Gil, angrily.

^^ Turn over — your back — float — that's well.
Now mind : leave me free. If you clutch
my arms we shall both go down."

As he spoke he tried hard to kick off his
heavy boots, but they clung to his legs, and
to have continued striving meant to sink.
Throwing himself upon his back then, and
with one hand grasping Wat Kilby's hair,
he once more struck out, gazing of necessity
upwards at the starless sky, and feeling
more and more that unless some miracle
interposed in their favour they must both
lose their lives. It was impossible to tell in
what direction he was going when his every
energy was directed to trying to keep them
both afloat ; and, strive to contain himself
how he would, there was always the knowledge
upon him that, moment by moment,
he was growing weaker.

For the water came more and more over
his lips, thundered more heavily in his ears,
and kept, as it were, forcing itself up his

nostrils, burning, and strangling him, and
causing such an intense desire to struggle
with all his might for life, that, but for the
disciplining of years and the power it had
given him of mastering his own emotions,
there would have been a minute's desperate
struggling, a few agonised cries for help,
and then the water would have closed over
his head.

The water that had risen at each stroke to
his chin was now always above his lips, then
above his nostrils, and it was only by frantic
efforts that he recovered himself for a few
moments ; but directly after his heavy boots
dragged him lower and lower, and with a
gasping cry he gave one more tremendous
stroke, when he felt his head forced in amongst
a clump of reeds, and for the moment he
could breathe.

He lay with the back of his head in
amongst the reeds for some minutes, not
daring to move lest he should glide back

into deep water, but even now the waves
were rippling and playing in his ears. He
could not stay long, however, like that, for
he had Wat Kilby to think of ; and throwing
one arm back over the reeds he dragged
himself more amongst them, and at the same
time pulled Wat close to his side.

How it was done he never afterwards
knew, only that he contrived somehow to
rouse the old sailor sufficiently to once more
take a little interest in life, and draw himself

over and amongst the reeds.

«

So far from being in safety, all they had
gained was the power to breathe, for at the
least movement the thin, whispering, water-grasses
gave way, and their position was
worse.

'' Can you hear me speak, Wat ?" said Gil
at last, in a hoarse voice, as he felt that he
was once more gaining breath.

'ray, skipper," said the old fellow, faintly;
'' I be not dead yet."

*' Can you draw yourself more amongst
the reeds?"

There was a few minutes' pause, and then
Wat said with a groan,

^^ No, skipper. If I move, it means going
below ; there's nothing to hold on by."

Gil foresaw that this would be the reply,
for on feeling cautiously round he could
only come to the conclusion that they were
half floating, half lying, among some nearly-submerged
reeds, and that the slightest
effort to better their condition meant the
destruction of the frail support.

'^ Wait till you get your breath, Wat, and
then shout for help'' said Gil.

^^Nay, I'll not call," was the hoarse reply.
*^ Do thou shout, skipper''

'' I order you to call, Wat," was the half-angry
reply; and, in obedience, Wat uttered
a hoarse hail from time to time, for his
voice to go floating over the water, borne
by the breeze away from the Pool-house,

and here the two men lay some three
mitred yards from the garden, cold, benumbed,
and gradually growing more helpless,
while those who were nearest slept on
hearing no cries, and in utter ignorance of
the peril in which the two well-known
adventurers lay.

The hails uttered from time to time
reached one or two of the cottages, but
those who heard the sounds float from off
the lake merely turned once in their beds,
and thought of marsh spirits, or the night-walkers
that had been seen from time to
time, passing along the tracks ; while the
less superstitious said to one another, '^ Captain
Culverin and his men be out to-night.
What be in the wind now ? "

Again and again did Gil make an effort
to find where they lay, and see if he could
not reach the boat, and come back to his
companion's help ; but the darkness was
mad e more intense by the thick mist which

was heavier than ever. He \/as rested though,
and had the nerve to make a bold effort, but
those boots that clung to his legs far above
his knees were like lead, and he dare hardly
stir.

Try how he would, he was fain to come
to the conclusion that he must lie passive
amongst those reeds, saying a few words to
Wat Kilby from time to time, to encourage
him ; for the old man, sturdy as he was,
seemed to have taken quite a fatalist view of
their case.

Wait for daylight, skipper?" he said,
sadly. '' No ; I think it be morning that will
have to wait for me, and I shan't answer to
my number. The cold water be getting
into my joints, and I be too stiff to move."

To remain for long in their cramped and
helpless situation seemed to Gil at first impossible;
but hour after hour glided away,
and save the rippling of the water hardly
a sound greeted the sufferers' ears. Too

numbed and helpless even to cry out for
help, they lay waiting for morning, hardly
hoping to see the dawn, for at any momenta
slip would have sent them into deep water,
to go down at once.

Sometimes a soft wind stirred the thick
steamy mist upon the water and rustled the
reeds above their heads ; while, at intervals
through the night, the cry of some coot or
duck floated weirdly across the great Pool,
but, at last, all those things seemed to Gil to
be part of a confused dream, as he grew,
more and more numbed and helpless. The
water washed higher over his face, but he
could not raise his head to avoid it, nor disturb
the current of his thoughts, which were
flowing placidly enough now, and quite unmingled
with despair, along his life-course ;
and it seemed ridiculous to him that he, who
had braved so many perils of the mighty
sea, should perish on this pitiful pond.
Then he began to think of Mace and her

feelings when she heard of his death ; and,
with a sigh, he thought it seemed hard
indeed that he should die now when he was
so sure of her love. But he whispered a
blessing upon her to the soft summer breeze,
and thanked Heaven that they had parted
so happily that night.

Wat Kilby had not spoken for hours, but
lay there in a state of torpor, till suddenly
he exclaimed : —

'^ You there, skipper?"

'' Yes, Wat."

'^ I wouldn't care so much only "

There was a pause here.

*^ Only that I have got my bag of tobacco
here in my pocket, and it be quite wet
through."

After that, there was utter silence.

CHAPTER IV.

HOW TWO WENT A-fishing, AND WHAT THEY
CAUGHT.

^^ You may argue, Brother Brisdone, till allis
blue," said Master Peasegood, '^ but I
maintain that what I say is right. Now,
look here ; go back to the early days, and
take your own apostle."

^^ My own apostle ?" said Father Brisdone,
smiling, as they walked down the lane, soon
after sunrise, one bearing a basket the other
a bag. The heavy dew lay upon leaf and
strand, and sparkled in the brilliant sunshine
; birds sang and flitted from bough to
bough, scattering the heavy drops from off
each spray ; and, as the two clerics had come

VOL. II. E

out of the cottage after an early breakfast,
they had stood breathing the soft pure air,
and smiled back at smiling Nature.

^* My own apostle ? " said Father Bris-done.


^^Yes, St. Peter; the rock upon which
your church is built. Well, what was he —
a fisherman ? "

^^ Yes," said Father Brisdone, '^ before he
took up his holy calling."

'^ Fisherman still, good brother. Did he
not become a fisher of men '^ Depend upon
it, brother, Peter, if he had been down by
the lake again, would have enjoyed a good
pull at the net."

'^ Maybe, maybe," said the father, smiling.
^' Well, let's grant it. Now, 1 was a
fisherman before I took to the cloth, and I
have been a fisherman ever since, right or
wrong ; and I hold that there is very little
wrong in providing a dinner."

'^ I'll not argue with you," said Father

Brisdone. ^^ If all men were like you,
Brother Peasegood, this would be a happier
world."

'' Wrong again!" cried Master Peasegood.
^^ You see you force on an argument. If all
men were like me, brother, it would be an
unhappier world ; for, look you, I'm too fat.
I'm as big as three small men ; and, if all
were like me, we should be so crowding and
elbowing each other that we should be
quarreling for want of room. Ha, ha, ha ! "
and ^'ha, ha, ha," he laughed again, making
the rocks and woodlands echo to his
jovial mirth ; the stray rabbits betrayed their
whereabouts by showing their little white
tails as they hopped into their holes ; and
snake and lizard upon sunny bank hurrying
away to safety long before the footsteps
could be heard.

'^ There's something in fishing that seems
to expand the heart," continued Master
e2

LIBRARY ^^

UNIVERSITY OF Illo'

Peascgood to his willing hearer. '^ I never
knew a man who was a good fisherman who
was very wicked or brutal."

^^ In other matters," said Father Brisdone,
with a smile.

swell, well, well, but the fish we catch
are vile, cruel things, which persecute their
smaller fellows. Why, I've known a luce
of twenty pounds seize and half swallow one
of ten, and kill himself in the act. Oh, no,
brother, I have no pity for a great luce or
pike ; and, besides, see what they are when
nicely treated, well cleaned, and stuffed,
and buttered, and baked. Ha, ha, ha ! we
have the advantage of you there. Brother
Brisdone ; we can be carnal-minded, and
eat, and drink, and wive if we like. But
come along and let's begin. I can sniff
the water now, with its soft wreaths of mist
floating around. We'll have the boat and
set our lures, and fish for a couple of hours,

and then take a brace of the finest to
Master Cobbe, and beg some more breakfast
for our pains."

*^ But suppose we catch no fish ?"

'^ But we shall catch fish — more, perhaps,
than you expect."

The two friends trudged on, and, upon
turning a corner of the narrow lane, came
upon Mother Groodhugh, standing at the
turning where Sir Mark had made his first
acquaintance with Wat Kilby.

Good morrow. Mother Groodhugh,*'
said the stout parson.

Save thee, my daughter," said Father
Brisdone.

Are you both going to curse the murderer
of Abel Churr ? " said Mother Goods
sourly.

Nay," said Master Peasegood ; '' and it
would behove thee better, good woman, if
thou did'st not sprinkle these curses of thine

about with so liberal a hand. Come along,
father."

Yes, go along," cried the old woman,
maliciously ; " time-servers and makers of
friendship with the ungodly as you are.
But you'll see, you'll live to see."

*' She's a terrible old woman," said
Master Peasegood, with a curious smile
upon his lip ; " and she seems to make my
fat go cold, like unto that of venison on an
unwarmed dish. I've given her up, father,
as a bad nut to crack. The worst of it is,
that if I turn prophet my sayings are never
fulfilled ; while, when she raises her voice,
her prophesying come to pass, and the
simple folks here believe in her more than
in me. But thank goodness, here we are."

Three hundred paces brought them to the
edge of the lake, over which the soft white
mists were disappearing before the sun.
The boat lay on the sandy beach, with a

chain holding it fast to the trunk of an old
willow ; and, as soon as the basket and wallet
had been laid in, Master Peasegood helped
his friend to take his place.

I don't think I shall swamp the boat,
Brother Brisdone," he said, laughing, as he
sent the skiff well down in the water. " If
I do, just you hold on tightly to my gown,
for I'm too fat to sink."

A hearty '' Ha, ha, ha ! " floated across
the lake as he finished his speech ; and
then, taking the little oars, he proceeded
to paddle across for some distance before
pausing and opening the large basket he
had brought.

The first thing taken out was a large can
of water with a lid pierced with holes ; and
then from the bag were shaken out a dozen
bladders, each tied round the centre with a
string and a loop. From his basket Master
Peasegood then brought out a dozen goodly
hooks, whose points were stuck in a piece

of cork, and whose strings were neatly tied
in a bunch ; and, as he took them off, one by-one,
each was baited with a fresh young
gudgeon from the can, the string attached
to one of the bladders, and this dropped
overboard to float away.

In a short time the whole of the hooks
were baited, and the lake dotted with the
bladders that floated here and there, borne
by the breeze or tugged by the lively gudgeons.
Then, and then only, did Master
Peasegood nearly upset the boat by leaning
over the side to wash his hands, and smile at
his companion.

His smile was not perceived though, for
Father Brisdone was sitting with one elbow
upon his knee, his cheek upon his hand,
gazing out and away at the soft landscape,
with the Pool-house and its works glorified
by the morning sun.

snow we'll sit and talk for awhile'' said
Master Peasegood, smiling jollily. "What

do you say to a pleasant subject for discussion
— say purgatory ? "

Because thou hast been putting these
poor gudgeons into a state of misery,
brother ? " said Father Brisdone.

Let the gudgeons rest," said Master
Peasegood. ^' They have all gone overboard
like so many finny Jonas, for the benefit of
those on board this ship ; and, if they are
lucky, they will soon be safe in so many
whales' insides. Ha, ha, ha ! Master Bris-done,
I'm afraid I'm a very irreverent disciple.
By all the saints, there goes one of
the Jonas. See ! "

He pointed to where, just by a reed-bed
towards which the bladder had drifted, there
was a tremendous swirl in the water, and
away it went skimming along at a rapid
rate.

Ha, yes, I suppose that will be a great
fish," said Father Brisdone, sadly; "but I

was thinking of the maiden at yon house—
sweet little Mace."

Bless her !'' said Master Peasegood.

Amen," said his companion. " Brother
Joseph, she is at a perilous age, and I do
not think her father's to be trusted."

*' You mean with her future ?" said Master
Peasegood. " I fear so too. Poor child, she
needs a mother's counsel ! "

Think you she has a lover ?" said Father
Brisdone, quietly.

Two fierce laces playing round the little
gudgeon," cried Master Peasegood, excitedly.
One of them will snatch it up directly.
Nay, nay," he continued, reddening ; '^ I
meant no inference. I was thinking of yon
bait. There it goes.'^

He pointed to where a gudgeon had leaped
several times out of the water to escape a
couple of fierce pike, one of which seized it
and bore it ose.

Lovers ? " he continued. " Yes, that
courtly fellow from town is trying to win
her, and so is Gilbert Carr."

And she ? "

"She loves Culverin Carr with all her
pretty little soul, but he shall not have her
unless "

Unless what ? "

He mends his ways. She shall marry
no scapegrace who plays fast and loose with
women's hearts. He trifles with Mistress
Anne Beckley, and the silly girl is mad for
him."

'nay, I think you wrong him, brother.
I believe in Gil Carr as a true gentleman at
heart. I love the brave, bold youth."

I hope I do wrong him," said Master
Peasegood. " He's a fine, handsome fellow,
but I will not have my little white moth
played with, and the tender down upon her
ringlets crushed by unholy hands."

Why do you call her white moth ? " said
the father, dreamily.

It is a fancy of the people here, because
she dresses in white ; and they meet her,
looking soft, and white, and ethereal, in the
woody lanes at eventide where moths abound.
Ah, Father Brisdone, happy men are we who
early marry ourselves to the Church, and
know nought of these fleshly troubles. Yes,
they call her the white moth ; and between
ourselves it's a glowworm that often comes
wooing to her, and I fear his light will
burn."

Father Brisdone sighed.

Ha, ha, ha ! that's because another Jonah
has gone down," said Master Peasegood,
pointing to a flying bladder.

Nay," said the other sadly ; '' I sighed at
your words about our being happier without
these fleshly cares. I don't know — I don't
know."

'•'More do I,'' said Master Peasegood ;
'' only that I'm very fatherly fond of little
Mace, and if I can stand between her and
Carr I will. Now, brother, we'll chase
that first great fish. Suppose you take the
oars."

Father Brisdone obeyed, and Master Pease-good
fitted a large hook to the end of a stout
walking-staff, directing his friend the while
as he urged the boat over the limpid water,
making fish dart away here and there amongst
the water-lilies and flags.

They approached pretty near the bladder,
and then away it went, showing that the
great pike was well hooked, and now commenced
a chase for some ten minutes, the
captive always evading thq great hook just
as Master Peasegood was on the point of
securing the string.

The chase led them right away over the
deepest part of the Pool, and amidst various
little islands of reeds growing on soft masses

of decayed vegetation ; the boat, when
urged forward, passing easily amongst andover
them, so lightly were they rooted in
the soft vegetable fibre below.

Now then, a good pull, brother, and we
shall have him," whispered Master Peasegood.
'' He's a monster, but he is tired now. Four
good strokes and then hold up your oars,
and let the skiff glide and I'll — Good God !
what's that? — the other oar, man, pull !"

The skiff spun round and was urged towards
a clump of reeds, among which, and
half covered by the water, were two ghastly
faces, which settled down, gliding from their
precarious hold, as the wave made by the
skiff reached them.

Another moment and they would have
been beyond reach, but Master Peasegood
thrust his arm to the shoulder into the water,
as he leaned over the side, and grasped the
doublet of one man, thrusting in his hook
and seizing the other, and then drawing

both up to the sides of the boat, as it rustled
amongst the reeds, but bringing the edge
down so low that the water began to pour in
over the side.

^^ Quick, brother, quick !" shouted Master
Peasegood. ^' Hang over the other side, or
we are lost ! "

With a promptitude that might not have
been expected from him, Father Brisdone
threw himself to the other side of the skiff,
and raised the endangered edge so that the
water ceased to pour over the gunwale,
while Master Peasegood deftly leaned sideways
and dragged the first body he had
secured round the stern of the boat.

Father Brisdone saw what he intended
and, changing his position a little, just
managed to catch the doublet, and the next
minute the boat was well balanced, for one
of the bodies was being held up on either
side.

*^ Are — are they dead?" whispered Father

Brisdone, in an awe-stricken voice. ^'Poor
lad— poor lad."

'^ Heaven only knows' cried Master
Peasegood, as he changed his position and
said, ^' Give me hold of the poor boy — his
collar — that's well. I've got this one the
same. There, their heads are well above
the water now, and I can hold them thus.
Now take the oars and row for life."

^^ But can you hold them ? " cried Father
Brisdone, as he obeyed his companion, and
gazed at him the while, seated with hands
grasping the two men's collars, one on either
side.

'' I hope so. Oh, yes! They can't drag
me out of the boat, but it would be madness
to try and drag them in. Row hard : never
mind me."

Father Brisdone bent to his task with a
will, and in a fashion that showed how he
had more than once handled an oar, while
Master Peasegood braced himself up, and

held on to his burdens as they dragged
behind.

^' You see who they are?" he said, as the
skiff gathered way, and the water rattled
under her bows.

'^ Yes ; one is the man of whom we
talked."

'' And the other is old Wat Kilby. I'll
never believe he is drowned," cried Master
Peasegood. '^ He's born for quite another
fate. Pull steady and hard, man. If my
arms are jerked out of the sockets I'll
forgive thee. Ole — ahoy — hoi — oy," he
shouted to a couple of men on the shore,
and as they stopped to gaze others began to
collect, so that by the time the side was
reached there was plenty of willing aid, and
hands ready to bear the two men into the
charcoal-shed, where, by Father Brisdone's
orders, blankets were fetched and stimulants,
while, under his instructions, strong hands
rubbed the icy limbs.

VOL. II. F

This was continued for a time, and then
the founder made a proposal, which was put
into effect.

'^ Four of you, one to the corner of each
blanket," he cried ; '^ and run them down to
the little furnace. We can lay them on the
hot bricks there."

^^ Yes, quickly," cried Father Brisdone.
^^ The very thing."

It was done, and the genial heat and the
friction liberally applied. At first no change
took place, and the founder shook his head ;
while Sir Mark, as he gazed at the stern,
handsome count menace of Culverin Carr, felt
that a dangerous rival had been removed
from his path.

^^ We were too late, brother, were we
not ? " said Master Peasegood, sadly.

^' I'll tell thee, anon," was the reply, as,
with cassock off and sleeves up. Father
Brisdone was toiling away, with the perspiration
streaming down his forehead.

One hour — two hours passed, and still
there was no sign of life. Those who aided
would have given up long before but for the
father's example, led by which they worked
manfully, till, to the great joy of the
operator, there was a faint quivering about
his patients' eyelids.

Encouraged by this, all worked the harder,
to be rewarded by a sigh from Gil, and a
low growl from Wat Kilby, who now rapidly
recovered consciousness, and startled all present
by exclaiming : — ^
^' Who has taken my tobacco''
Gil recovered more slowly, but he was
soon able to speak; and the first person
upon whom his eyes fell was Sir Mark, who
seemed half fascinated by his gaze.

A couple of hours later the two men were
sufficiently revived to bear removal ; and ina
gruff way, as if the show of hospitality
were forced upon him. Master Cobbe offered
them the use of his house.
f2

GiPs heart gave a Icajj of joy at the
invitation, while Sir Mark's countenance
grew black as night. It resumed its former
aspect, though, as he heard Gil refuse, and
merely request permission to stay where
they were for a time, after which he said
they would go their way.

'^ I'd give something to know how those
two came so near being drowned," said the
founder, as he walked over the little bridge
with Sir Mark.

'^ I'd give something," said Sir Mark to
himself, '" if that meddling priest had left
the scoundrel to die in peace. How I hate
him, to be sure."

Meanwhile, Mace, who had been upon her
knees in her little chamber, praying with all
her soul for her lover's life, had now changed
her prayer to thanksgiving, and at last stood
by the window, and exchanged a look with
him, as she saw him walk slowly away, with
Wat Kilby, whose pipe was lit, and who

was smoking as if nothing whatever had
been amiss.

As to how the accident had occurred, that
was the secret of the two sufferers, the guests
that evening of Master Peasegood, whose
laces were not sought for till the next morning,
by which time three-parts had managed
to get away, or rid themselves of their steel,
leaving the floating bladders alone for the
parson's crook.

CHAPTER V.

HOW SIR MARK VISITED DAME Buckley's GARDEN
OF SIMPLES.

In the course of the morning a mounted
messenger came on to the Pool-house with
a despatch for Sir Mark, whose brow clouded
as he read that it was a peremptory recall to
town.

He handed the despatch to the founder,
who read it quietly, and returned it.

shah," he said, ^Hhen I am to lose my
guest. I hope Sir Mark does not quarrel
with my hospitality."

'nay, but I do," said Sir Mark, petulantly.
*^ You deny me the very one thing
I ask."

^* And what is that ? " said the founder.

^^ Your daughter's hand, Master Cobbe."

^'Nay, nay, she's no mate for thee, my
lad, so let that rest."

^^But I cannot, — I will not," cried Sir Mark.

^^ But thou must, and thou shalt'' said the
founder. '^ Now, what can I do to speed
thee on thy journey ? "

^^ Nothing," was the reply, ^^ for Sir
Thomas has sent a spare horse for my service.
Good Master Cobbe, hearken to me.
Come : you will accept me as your son-in-law
of the future ? "

'^ Go back to the fine madams of the
court, my lad, and you'll forget my little
lass in a week."

^^Nay, by Heaven, I never shall."

'' And we shall never see thee more."

'^ You consent?"

'^No," said the founder, sternly. ^' Goodbye,
my lad, and I hope thou forgives me
the prick in the shoulder I gave thee."

^^ Forgive ? I bless you for it," cried Sir
Mark, enthusiastically; '^ and as to our never
meeting again, why, man, I shall be back
here ere a month has gone by."

^^Harkye," cried the founder, laying his
hand on the other's arm, ^^this can only be
by some trick or other of thine in thy report.
Sir Mark Leslie, if thou plays me false,
look well to thyself."

'play thee false. Master Cobbe ! Nay,
I'll only play to win sweet Mace — and your
money," he added to himself. ''I shall be
back, I tell you, and before long. Now to
make my adieux to your daughter."

But Mace returned for answer through
Janet that she was too ill to see Sir Mark ;
and the message was conveyed to him when
he was alone.

*' And now, pretty Janet, what's it to be,"
he said — '' a kiss or this gold piece ? "

'^ Both," said Janet, promptly, as she held
out hand and cheek.

^^ There they are, then, and mind this,
Janet : help me in my suit to win thy mistress,
and thou shalt have the handsomest
gown thou canst choose, with a gilded stomacher
like they wear at court."

'^ Shall I ? " cried the girl, with sparkling
eyes.

*' Ay, and aught else you like to ask for.
Now, farewell."

He printed another kiss on Janet's rosy
cheek and a few on her lips, and stayed
some little time before he once more sought
the founder, who had, however, gone to one
of his sheds.

Here a farewell of anything but a friendly
nature took place ; and, forgetting to bestow
any present on the workmen, Sir Mark
mounted the horse awaiting him and rode
away, to see what sort of a reception he
should have flora the pompous baronet and
his child.

Sir Mark had had his mind so set upon

Mace Cobbe that, when at Roehurst, he could
think of nothing else, and his every thought
on leaving the place was about how to get
back from London with a good excuse for
staying.

'' I must get the old fellow a big order for
powder and cannon," he said, ^^ and play my
cards so that I have the commission to seethe
order executed, test the guns and the
grains, and then I shall have the old man in
my fingers. Only let him accept the Royal
order, and I can work him. Ha, ha, ha !" he
laughed, 'powder not of required strength;
flaw in this gun ; want of carrying power in
that ; failure in accuracy in another. Why
my dear father-in-law, thou wilt be at my
mercy; and if I cannot work you to my
ends, in spite of all independence and defiance,
my name is not Mark Leslie."

'^ Why," he added, laughing, ''if I failed
in managing thee in any other way. Master

Cobbe, I have only to hint to His Majesty
that here is a clever artificer who maketh
strong powder, which he supplies to the
Papist, and I could have a score or two of
men down to lay you by the heels. Surely
I could manage it all if driven to urge him
very hard. But, there, I can get on better
by driving him with a light hand. Let me
see, why war materials will be wanted for
Holland ! Tut, lad, it will be easy enough
to do."

He rode gently on, having a care to prevent
his horse from setting his feet in the
deeper holes ; and now began a fresh set of
thoughts, to wit, concerning Mistress Anne.

'' By Bacchus and Venus, and all the gods
and goddesses who had to do with the making
of love," he cried, ^' and am I to face
that bright - eyed, ruddy - haired piece of
tyranny ? She was ready to fall in love
with me at the first meeting, and here have I

treated her and Sir Thomas most scurvily.
How am I to behave ? Apologise, or take
the high hand?"

'' The latter !" he cried, touching the fat
horse he rode with the spur. ''If I am
humble, I shall be slighted. Hang it, I will
be courted, for I am from the court."

He rode on through the pleasant woodlands,
enjoying the sweet-scented breeze, but
only for the agreeable sensations it afforded
him ; and, almost leaving the horse to follow
its own bent, he at last came in sight of the
stone pillars which supported the gates leading
up to the Moat.

It was a spot that would have delighted
poet or artist, that long, embowering avenue
of trees, at the end of which stood the
mossy pillars, each supporting an impossible
monster, which seemed to be putting out its
tongue derisively at the visitors to the old
house.

Riding along the avenue and through the
gates, Sir Ma)-k passed a park-like stretch
of grass, and then a belt of trees which
almost hid the house, till he was close up to
the old moat, from which it took its name ; a
broad, deep dyke of water that surrounded
the building, bordered with a wide spreading
lawn of soft green turf, which was kept
closely shaven, and was dotted with spreading
trees, and gnarled, rugged old hawthorns.
This wide lawn ran from the edge
of the moat to the ivy-grown walls of the
quaint mansion, evidently the work, with its
florid red brick, of some clever architect of
Henry VII. 's days. To a lover of the
picturesque, the place was perfect, with its
ivy-softened walls and buttresses, quaintly-shaped
windows, shady corners, seats beneath
hawthorns, and clipped yews that dotted the
old pleasaunce ; and nothing could have
been more attractive than the wild garden
formed by the great lawn, broken by mossy

boles, wliicli ran down to the great lily-dappled
moat.

Sir Mark drew rein upon the old stone
bridge, and gazed around him for a while at
the broad leaves floating on the dark, clearwater,
where some great carp every now
and then thrust up its broad snout and with
a loud smack sucked down a hapless fly.
There was something very attractive about
the place ; the quaint red building seen
amongst the oaks and firs ; the dashes of
colour here and there of Dame Beckley's
flower-beds, many of which were rich with
strange plants that Gil Carr had brought
from foreign lands and given to Mace for
the garden at the Pool-house, and of which
Dame Beckley had begged or taken cuttings.

There was an air of sleepy calmness about
the old moat that had its effect upon Sir
Mark, whose musings upon the bridge took
something of this form.

^^ I am in debt; I get more deeply so;

and I can never recover myself, as my
expenses increase, without wedding a rich
wife. Sir Thomas Beckley, Baronet, cannot
live for ever ; and this would be a charming
place for me to settle down to when I get
middle-aged and stout, and have grown to
care little for the court.
'' But then the lady !

shah!" he sighed, ^^It is the way of
the world. If rustic Mace, with her sweet
beauty, had thrown herself at me, and
dropped like a luscious fruit into my hands,.
I should have wearied of her in a week ; but
she is hard to reach so I strive the more ;

while Mistress Anne, here

'^ Hah ! I will not be too rash. Suppose
I temporise, and am gentle and respectful
by turns. Even if I marry Mace, there is
no reason why I should scorn one who is
nearly as fair. Besides which, if Master
Culverin is in favour, then a little revenge
upon him by tasting the sweet lips of his

other love would not come amiss. Only I
must be cautious, or I may g'o wrong. By
Bacchus ! here is the lady herself ! "

He touched the flank of his horse, for
just then he caught sight of the gay colours
of Mistress Anne's brocaded gown, where she
sat upon a rustic seat, reading beneath a
shady tree, of course sublimely ignorant of
Sir Mark's approach, as she had been watching
for him ever since the messenger had
left ; and, though her eyes were fixed upon
her book, she had read no words since she
had seen him pause upon the bridge, and her
heart went fluttering beneath its hard be-laced
cage.

Sir Mark did not know it, but the lady
who sat before him in the old pleasaunce,
not far from the moat, had come to precisely
the same determination as himself. Could
she win Gil she would, for his dashing life of
adventure always made him seem quite a
hero of romance ; but, failing Gil, Sir Mark

would do. So once more she determined to
play a cautious waiting game of the 
fashion ; and, therefore,
when Sir Mark leaped from the fat cob, sent
by Sir Thomas by her special command,
and approached her hat in hand, no stranger
could possibly have imagined that there was
such a place in the world as the Pool-house,
where dwelt sweet Mace Cobbe, to whose
greater attractions Sir Mark had yielded,
and stayed away. The handsome courtier
from town might have just returned from a,
visit to the foundry after but a few hours'
absence so smiling and pleasant was his
reception beneath the trees.

'' By Bacchus, she's a sensible girl after
all,-' thought Sir Mark.

^* I may bring him to my knees yet,"
thought Mistress Anne; sand, if I do, I'll
hold him till Gil Carr asks me to be his wife,
and then "

A flash sped from her eye full of malicious

VOL. II. G

glee, as, taking her hand once more a la
minuet, Sir Mark led her up towards the
house, where, well-schooled by his daughter.
Sir Thomas squeezed his fat face into a
smile, and declared he was glad to see his
guest again.

'' Your inspection has taken you a longtime.
Sir Mark," he said.

^^ It has been a tedious task' was the reply;
'^ and even now I have not done."

*^ Indeed ? " said Mistress Anne.

'' Nay," he replied; ^4t is quite possible
that I may have to return within the month
to continue my report''

As he spoke he glanced furtively at Mistress
Anne, to see what effect it would have upon
her. To his satisfaction, she clapped her
hands joyously.

"I am so glad," she cried, with childlike
glee. Then, as if ashamed of her outburst,
she looked down and blushed, ending
by glancing timidly at Sir Mark.

** She's very charming, after all," he
thought, as he smiled upon her. ^' Poor
girl, she can't help it, I suppose ; " and he
felt a pleasant glow of self-satisfaction and
conceit run through his veins.

*' We see so little company," simpered
Anne.

'^ Really, you've seen very little of me'*
said Sir Mark. *' But duty — duty, Sir
Thomas. I felt bound to stay there and
keep matters well under my own eyes."

It must have been very tedious and
tiresome," said Anne, innocently; '^ but then.
Mace Cobbe is very nice and pleasant, is she
not?"

Sir Mark looked sharply to the speaker to
see if this was a venomed shaft, but Mistress
Anne's eyes were as wide open as her face
was vacant and smooth.

'^ Yes," he said, quickly ; '' a very pleasant,
sensible girl. Well educated, too."

'' Yes'' said Anne, dreamily. '^ I like
G 2

Mace Cobb, only dear father and my mother
don't quite approve of my making her an
intimate."

The faint " Oh ! " that escaped from Sir
Thomas Beckley's lips must have been caused
by a twinge of gout, for he did not venture
to speak when he caught his daughter's eye.

Will you not come and see my mother,
Sir Mark ?" continued Anne, sweetly. '' She
is down in her simple garden, by the
southern wall."

I shall be delighted," was the reply;
and rising, he escorted the lady out through
an open bay window, and along the closely-shaven
lawn.

Anne means to marry him," said Sir
Thomas, gazing after his daughter, and rubbing
his nose in a vexed manner. " What a
smooth, soft puss it is ! Who'd think she
had such claws ? "

She's innocence itself," said Sir Mark to
himself, as he twisted his moustache-points,

and smiled down tenderly at his companion,
who blushed and trembled and faltered when
he spoke to her, as naturally as a simple-hearted
girl who had been longing for his
return. " By all the gods it would be much
easier work to make up matters here ! "

Let me run on, and tell my mother
you have come, Sir Mark," said Anne, ingenuously.


'' Nay, nay," said the guest, pressing the
trembling little white hand he took; ** I have
not many hours to stay." •

Oh ! " cried Anne, gazing with piteous
wide open eyes. *' You are not going away
to-day ? "

In two hours' time, sweet, I must be on
the road to London. Must — I must."

To give Anne credit for her efforts, she
tried very hard to squeeze two little tears
out of the comers of her eyes ; but they were
obstinate, and refused to come. She heaved
a deep sigh, though, and gazed sadly down at

her little silk shoes, as they toddled over the
short grass, her heels being packed up on the
bases of a couple of inverted pyramids, which
just allowed her toes to reach the ground.

'' Poor child ! " thought Sir Mark ; and the
desire was very strong upon him to just
bend down and kiss her. But he resisted
the temptation bravely, his strength of mind
being fortified by the knowledge that they
were well in sight of the latticed windows.

A minute later, and they had to go through
a narrow path, winding through and overarched
by broad-leaved nut-stubbs, which
formed quite a bower belated with golden
sunbeams, that seemed to fall in drops upon
the enchanter's night-shade, the briony, and
patches of long thick grass.

ems this the way to the simple garden,
Mistress Anne ? '' he said, playing with the
hand that lay upon his arm.

*^ Yes, Sir Mark," she faltered ; ^^ it is close
at hand."

It might have been a mile away as far as
seeing what went on in the nutwalk was
concerned ; and feeling this, and a very
tender sensation of pitying sorrow for the
weak girl at his side, Sir Mark thought that
to yield to the temptation would be only
kindness, and an act that would solace the
poor child, so he said with a sigh :

^^Yes, Mistress Anne, I must away in a
couple of hours."

^^ So soon ? " she whispered.
** Yes; so soon." •

And then somehow, sweet Mistress Anne,
in her girlish innocency, thought not of resistance,
as her companion drew her softly
nearer and nearer to him, one of his arms
passing round her slight waist, so that she
hung upon it, with her head thrown slightly
back. Her veined lids drooped over her eyes,
her lips were half parted to show her white
teeth, and the lips themselves were red and
moist as her soft perfumed breath. For she

was very young, and did not know what it
was to be taken in the arms of a man, saving
upon such an occasion as that when Gil had
held her and half borne her along. It was
quite natural, then, that when Sir Mark's
lips drew nearer and pressed hers, at first so
softly that a gnat would have hardly felt the
touch, then harder, more closely, and ended
by joining them tightly, that she should not
shrink from the contact, but, though motionless,
seem to passively return kiss for kiss —
a score of kisses joined in one.

This one might have lasted an hour or a
moment — Sir Mark did not know. All he
knew was that for the time being Mace
Cobbe was forgotten, and that the kiss was
very nice. In fact, it seemed to him that he
was just in the middle of it when an excited
voice broke it right in half by exclaiming, —

'^ Oh, my gracious ! "

Looking up, he found himself face to face
with dumpy, chubby Dame Beckley, staring

vacantly astounded, in her spectacles and
garden-gloves, her basket having dropped
from her hand.

ui beg— I "

'^ Oh, Sir Mark ! " exclaimed the lady, angrily;
and then, catching her daughter's
eye, she went on in a trembling, fluttering
way; ^^I never thought — I couldn't see — I
really — Oh, dear me ; how do you do, Sir
Mark? I — I — I am glad to see you
back."

He held out his hand, smiling in her fac
the while, and in her confusion Dame Beck-ley
placed therein a little trowel, making
him start. Then, starting herself, she grew
more confused, and snatched the trowel
away, dropped it, and nearly struck her
head against the visitor, as he stooped quickly
to pick up the fallen tool.

I beg your pardon. Sir Mark' she stammered,
as she finally succeeded in getting
trowel and garden-gloves comfortably settled

in the basket, a frown from her daughter
hastening her pace.

^^ Sir Mark was coming with me to see you
in the simple-garden, mother," said Mistress
Anne, calmly enough. " Will you show him
some of your choicest plants ? "

^'Oh, yes, child, if I — that is — bless me,
I hardly know what I am saying. This
way. Sir Mark, this way," and turning abruptly
she led the little party down the
garden.

Sir Mark pressed Mistress Anne's hand,
and gave her a meaning look and smile, but
he was disconcerted to find his companion's
face as innocent and guileless-looking as her
limpid eyes.

'^ Confound it all," he muttered ; " I must
not trifle with her, or I shall break the poor
girl's heart."

'^ These are my simples, Sir Mark," said
the dame, pointing to the various old-fashioned
herbs growing beneath the shelter

of a sunny wall ; lavender, rosemary, rue,
and balm ; peppermint, spearmint, and lemon-thyme
; pennyroyal, basil, and marigold;
wall-hyssop; and sweet marjoram, borage,
and dill, with a score more, — which she hastened
to point out to hide her confusion.

'^ That is agrimony, Sir Mark, for fevers,
and that is the new long snake-rooted glycerine
from Spain, a fine thing for colds and
burning throats. I'hese are the echeverias
for making up when there are scalds and
burns, and applying cool to the place."

And what is that great long-leaved plant,
madame?" said Sir Mark, showing an interest
in what he saw.

^^ The Indian weed — tobacco, sir, and this
is a strange new gourd from the same land ;
and this is a root that grows into curious
floury lumps or balls, when underground.
But maybe you have heard of them before
we simple people in the country. It is the
batata."

^^ Yes; I have heard of that, and tasted it
too," said Sir Mark.

Would you like to see my vines, Sir
Mark ? " said the lady, eagerly. ^' They are
in the shelter of the old walls here, and I
ripen my grapes, and make my wine, that
you shall taste when we go in."

I thank you, madam, and shall be right
glad."

'^ Here, too, is my woodside, or germander,"
cried Dame Beckley, eagerly. ^^ It is a
fine bitter, with which we make our ale. I
have tried to get Cobbe at the Pool to use it
when he brews, but he is obstinate and headstrong,
and will take the strange-smelling
hop-nettle, which twines and runs up the
stakes. Maybe Sir Mark has seen the plantation
there."

^^ Ay, that I have," said Sir Mark, smiling
at Anne, while her mother prattled on.

The founder has a goodly garden, but
not like mine," said the little lady, proudly.

^' He never grows such apples as these, nor
yet such berries or such plums. I have told
him much and given him many seeds, but
he is a headstrong and a hard man to
teach."

Sir Mark bowed.

'^ I gave him the graft to place in his
stock for the choice Christmas pippins, — the
Noel beauty, Sir Mark, — or he would not
have had a worthy apple in his garden.
Now, I prithee, come and see my bees."

^' Perhaps Sir Mark would not care to seethe
bees, mother,' said Mistress Anne, demurely
; '^ he might get stung."

'^I should be too pleased to see them,"
said Sir Mark, eagerly ; and he was led up
this long walk, down that, between the
closely-cropped yew-trees and the edges of
box, all kept in wondrously-regular order,
and the beds lush with many-coloured,
sweet-scented plants, which grew in clusters
luxuriantly strong.

Sir Mark assumed a look of pleasure, and
Mistress Anne was innocence itself; her eyes
downcast and a trembling, hesitating expression
in her countenance, though she plainly
saw that Sir Mark was wearied out and
longed to go in and rest.

There is the orchard, that Sir Mark has
not yet seen," cried Dame Beckley, to her
daughter's great delight, as she hung upon
the visitor's arm.

^'But, ladies, I must be thinking of my
journey back to town."

'' Not without tasting our hospitality, Sir
Mark," exclaimed Dame Beckley, apparently
in answer to a signal from her child,
and leading the way. So he was amply
feasted and petted for the time, until,
mounting horse once more, he rode over the
bridge, and stopped to wave his hand before
the trees hid Mistress Anne and her mother
from view, with Sir Thomas in his feather-stuffed
breeches and cock-tail hat.

CHAPTER VI.

HOW SWEET MACE ASKED FOR A CUP OF WATER.

'* Quick, Polly, my hat and cloak !" cried
Mistress Anne, running up to her room,
where her little handmaiden was seated at
work. '' Then there is some truth in the old
woman's philtres after all ? "

'^ Yes, mistress, if you mean Mother
Goodhugh's/' cried the girl, who had caught
the last words.

'' Why ? How ? What do you know ? "
cried Mistress Anne.

'^ Why, mistress, everybody in love goes
to her to get her help''

** And who told thee I was in love, thou
saucy slut ? " cried Anne angrily.

^' My handsome mistress's beautiful cheeks,
that turned red when she knew Sir Mark
Leslie was coming, and her red, ripe lips,
that spake his name. La, mistress, don't be
angry with little me, for wishing to see thee
with a handsome, gallant husband. But I
shouldn't like though for him to be so fond
of Sweet Mace down at the forge."

^^ And who dare say he is ? " cried Mistress
Anne, angrily.

'' They say he be, mistress, and that he
looked Captain Culverin about her, and the
captain was nearly drowned as well''
Who told thee all this ? " cried Anne.
'' Janet, who lives there, helped the news
to me," replied the girl ; " but Sir Mark
would never bemean himself to marry such
a creature as that Mistress Mace."

'^ Hold thy prating tongue," cried Mistress
Anne ; '^ and if I find thee talking about my
affairs, girl, or what thou seest. Sir Thomas
shall know."

Hastily tying on hat and cloak, she started
for Mother Goodhugh's, Polly, her apple-faced
little maid, making a grimace as she left the
room.

'' I shall talk as much as I like," said the
girl, giving her head a toss ; '' mighty
madam, as you be. Tell Sir Thomas, and
I'll tell what I see going on from this
window, down in the nut-stubs. Ha, ha,
ha ! how my lady did stare."

Mistress Anne lost no time in making her
way across the fields and through the woods,
to Mother Goodhugh's ; finding the old
woman seated at her door, watching her
bees as they flew in and out from the straw-hives
in her garden-patch.

^^ Ah, my dearie," she exclaimed; ^^ you
be come again?"

Yes, mother," cried Anne, trying, now
to keep calm and cool. ** What is this I
hear about Captain Carr ? "

VOL. II. H

*' Captain Carr be not for thee," cried the
old woman, firing up ; ^^ he be a murderer
he has slain my best old friend, and if
Sir Thomas, thy father, does not have him
hung, he be no true man''

'softly'' said Mistress Anne; '^ softly,
mother."

Nay, I will go softly no more But of
thine own affairs, dearie. Captain Gil Carr
is cursed, with all he does. My words have
brought him evil already, and thee good.
Sir Mark, the handsome stranger, is to wed
my handsome mistress. I sent him thee today."


^^ You sent him?"

'' Ah, child, mock away. I sent him on
his way to London. Tell me, if thou dearest,
that he did not say sweet things to thee ?
Ay, thy face tells it. Child, he be thine."

*^ Nay, mother," cried Anne, who was-thrown
ose her guard by the old woman's

apparent knowledge ; ^^ he is coming back
soon, and he will go to the foundry-house,
and — and "

*^ Mace Cobbe? Nay, child, nay; the
game be thine own now. He and Mace have
nothing between them. He be thine if thou
wilt have him''

'' How can you tell me that, mother ? "

"What!" cried the old woman, ^^ have
not I worked upon him night and day, till
he and that girl are at odds ? I say, child ;
the game be thine own."

Mother," whispered Anne, after a glance
at the door, '^ I hardly believe in thy spells ;
but look, here is a golden piece for you.
Ten more shall be yours if you can make
Mace Cobbe unpleasing in Sir Mark's eyes
when he comes back. He is not half gained
yet, but with your help he can be won."

*^ Make her unpleasing— her face'' said
Mother Goodhugh, with a peculiar look.

Hush ! I want to know nothing — I will
H 2

not know anything, Mother Goodhugh. Only
I say make her so that he shall care for her
no more."

^< But how, child, how?" said the old
woman, with a malicious grin.

'* Do you want me to teach you your
trade?" cried Anne, sharply. ^^ There, give
me back my gold piece, and I'll go to one
who can do my bidding."

*' Nay' cried the old woman, sharply ;
*^ I'll do it; but if I get into trouble thou
must stand by me with Sir Thomas."

What if they want to burn thee for a
witch ! " said Mistress Anne.

'' Hush ! " cried the old woman, '* hush ! "
and she glanced hastily round, to see that
they were not overheard. " Don't speak
like that ; the people might hear thee. Hist !
some one is coming."

Mistress Anne started up in alarm, as approaching
footsteps were heard ; and, obeying
the old woman's pointing finger, she hid

behind the blue-checked curtain, which shut
off her bed, just as there was a tap on the
door, and the innocent object of their
machinations entered, basket in hand.

'' Why, it be thou, child," cried the old
woman, in an ill-used tone.

Yes, mother ; I've brought a few little
things for thee."

'' Nay, I want them not, nor none of thy
trade," cried the old woman ; '^ I want them
not ; " but her glistening eyes told another
tale. " There, set them down there," she*
continued, pointing to a side-table.

Suppose you open the basket and take
them out yourself, mother," said Mace,
smiling with an ingenuous look that might
have disarmed the crone's resentment ; but
it seemed to have a reverse action, as she
rose muttering and scowling, half-snatched
the basket, and carried it beyond the curtain,
to empty it of its contents.

As she did so, the old woman's eyes encountered

those of Mistress Anne, and a
peculiar meaning look passed from one to
the other, as Mace said aloud —

^^ I am thirsty with my walk, mother ; can
you give me a cup of water ? "

^^ Yes, child, yes," cried the old woman,
hastily; and one of her hands stole towards
a shelf over Mistress Anne's head, as she
made believe to go on emptying the basket
by making its lid creak loudly.

Mistress Anne's eyes followed the old
woman's hand, and she saw the skinny
fingers close upon a phial, which she hastily
hid in her breast, and then once more the
eyes of the pair behind the curtain met in a
meaning way, and the face of the hiding girl
grew ghastly pale.

^' Wait a moment, child'' grumbled Mother
Goodhugh, ^^ and I'll get thee a cup of water
from the spring. There be thy basket, but
bring no more such things to me ; I hate
them."

^^ We'll see, mother," said Mace, smiling,
as taking a cup from a shelf the old woman
hurried out of the cottage to where, out in
the road by the side of the lane, a dipping-place
for the clear, cool iron-impregnated
water had been made.

Stooping down, after glancing right and
left, she dipped the cup full of the clearwater
; and then, removing the cork from the
little phial, she poured half its contents
beneath the hand that covered the cup,
recorded and hid the bottle, and then with
an ugly smile about her lips returned to her
visitor.

'^ Here, child," she said; *^ it be cool, and
sweet, and pure. There be no curse in that;"
and as she spoke she glanced involuntarily
at the curtain, behind which Anne Beckley
was listening, and, though no breeze penetrated
the cottage, the hangings visibly shook
as Mace took the cup.

Poison, a decoction of some imaginary

power, or merely the juice of a plant full of
tannin, the effect was the same. Mother
Goodhugh was too deeply intent on watching
her last visitor and the curtain to pay any
heed to the contents of the cup. She had
dipped it full of the iron-impregnated water,
and seen that it was clear as crystal before
holding it in her left hand, with the fingers
extended round the rim and her palm
acting as a cover. The pouring in of the
liquid of the phial, too, had been done in a
hasty way, without more than a glance at
what she was doing.

To her surprise, then, as she handed the
cup to her visitor. Mace passed it back.

'^ I asked you for a cup of cold water,
mother," she said quietly, '^ and you gave
me this ! "

Mother Goodhugh looked down at the cup
to see that the limpid crystal water she had
dipped had turned of a livid black; and,
startled and convicted by the change, she

gazed at it, then at the girl, and then back
at the cup.

^^ What did you put in it, mother?" said
Mace, quietly.

^^ I — I — put anything in?" said the old
woman, humbly ; ^^ what should I put in ?"

*^ Some one or another of your silly mixtures''
said Mace, sternly. 'why do you
attempt to try them upon me ? "

'' Silly mixtures !" Such a term applied to
her philtres in the presence of one whom she
wished for her own reasons to impress fully
with her potency ! A moment before the
old woman was shivering and cowed ; now
her visitor's words roused up the spirit of
opposition within her, and, with her eyes
flaming defiance, she called upon her powers
of well-matured dissimulation as she half
shrieked : —

'^ I put in mixtures ! Go to, white witch
that thou art. Did 1 not see thee cast an
e^dl eye on the drinking water, and turn it

black ? Look here," she cried, seizing the
cup, throwing out its contents, running to
the spring, and returning with it full of clear
fluid, " the water be bright and sweet. Nay,
nay ; thou shalt not touch it," she cried, as
Mace stretched out her hand to take the cup
'' I will have no more of thy juggling
tricks here. Out upon thee, witch — witch,
who priest to win decent maidens' lovers to
thy side. When the time comes that justice
overtakes thee for thy wicked enchantments,
my voice shall be raised to tell of all
I know. Go! — xiway with thee! — Witch,
witch 1 "

She stood waving her hands and stick at
her who had brought her help, and a malignant
look of spite and suppressed glee overspread
her face, as she laughingly hugged
herself upon the clever way in which she
had turned the tables upon her accuser. The
girl's lips parted to speak ; but finding her
adversary become more voluble and ready,

Mace shrank away, staggered by the words
of the old woman, who followed her to the
door, and stood menacing her and shrieking
threats as she hurried away with the words
witch, witch," ringing in her ears.

There was no lack of common-sense in
the founder's daughter, but for the moment
she was startled by Mother Goodhugh's
words. No more superstitious than the
educated people of her days, a faint belief
in the sin of witchcraft lingered in her mind ;
and she knew by rumour of the terrible fate
that had been reserved for women accused
of such dealings. For, from time to time,
account of fiery executions had reached the
remote hamlet, and she shuddered as these
memories came back.

To be accused of witchcraft by some malignant
enemy meant placing the accused
in a position wherein nothing she said
would be believed ; and, as she hurried

homewards, Mace's face was pale with
anxiety and dread.

This soon passed off, though, and she
laughed at her childish terrors.

'* Poor old thing, she is half mad," thought
Mace ; and even then she began to think
about the cup ; coming rapidly to the right
conclusion that Mother Goodhugh had placed
some one or another of her decoctions in the
water.

I'll go there no more," she said ; " the
old woman is dangerous, and to try to ward
off her wishes by kindly acts seems to make
things worse."

She was, in spite of the encounter, lighthearted
and glad ; for though the accusation
against Gil troubled her, still she knew that
he was innocent, and had hoped by propitiating
Mother Goodhugh to get her in time
to withdraw her words. That adventure
had failed ; but there was a change at home

that made her heart leap. Sir Mark had
gone, and an incubus seemed to have been
removed from her heart as she felt that the
old happy days would come again; and,
laughing off the scene with Mother Good-hugh,
she hastened ok through the pleasant,
sunlit glade, where the birds hardly fled at
her approach.

'' There will be no spells here' she said,
laughingly, as she turned aside ; and, parting
the bushes, climbed down amongst the ferny
stones to where the water dropped into a
natural basin, from which, with a cup improvised
with a broad burdock leaf, she sipped
the pure sparkling fluid and quenched her
thirst, seating herself afterwards to rest
upon one of the mossy stones, and gazing
dreamily down the ravine, through which the
water flowed beneath a canopy of luxuriant
ferns. As she gazed, a kingfisher, till then
motionless upon a twig, suddenly darted

down into a pool, rose with something
silvery in its beak, and fled along the
narrow valley like a streak of azure drawn
across the verdure by a spirit-hand, while
soon after the white coverts of a blue bar-winged
jay were seen as the shy bird
peered at her with convince curiosity and
then uttered an excited '' Tchah — tchah !"
and fled.

Mace thought not of kingfisher, jay, or
the velvet-coated blackbird that came and
perched so near to watch her intently, for
she was considering whether Sir Mark would
come back, and, if so, whether he would
renew his suit. She was troubled, too,
about her father, and his want of faith in
Gil. It had seemed as if in his heart he
did not dislike the attentions paid to her by
Sir Mark ; and at last, with a sigh, she rose
and continued her little journey.

Time smooths away a good many difficulties'

she said, half-laughing ; sand, if it
does not, I must fain follow the example of
the Virgin Queen."

To her surprise, before she was out of the
wood she met her father, who rarely left the
precincts of his own grounds, unless it was
to visit ironstone pit, quarry, or the colliers
busy charcoal-burning. He seemed to be
examining her curiously as she came up to
him, and laid her hand upon his arm.

*^ Where have you been, Tit ?" he asked.

*sto take Mother Goodhugh a chicken
and a few little niceties, poor soul ! "

^' For cursing thy father so bitterly ?"

^^Nay, father; to try and make the poor
half-crazed soul more sensible."

*^ And to pay her for muttering nonsense
to please a silly girl. Tit, I thought better
of thee," he said.

Mace looked at him half-wounded, half-amused.


^' When did you know me guilty of such
follies, father ?" she asked.

^' Never till now, when thy head was filled
with love nonsense by that scoundrel, Gil."

'' Father, you hurt me when you speak
thus of Gil," she cried sadly; "and when
you doubt my truth."

^^ Thou hast been to Mother Goodhugh,
like some silly wench, to ask her for love-charms;
worse still, thou hast, the moment
Sir Mark has gone, run off to keep tryst with
a man I forbid thee to see."

The pained look grew deeper in Mace's
eyes as she laid both her hands upon the
broad chest of the founder, and gazed full in
his eyes.

'' Father, dear," she said, simply, '^ why
should I go to bid a foolish old woman
mutter silly spells, when I know that Gil
loves me with all his heart."

^* Out upon his love. As he loves Anne

Beckley, and every woman he meets. Shame
on thee, girl— for shame ! "

She smiled sadly as she still gazed up in
his face.

^^ You don't mean this, father, dear," she
said. '^ You don't think I should be so silly
as to go to Mother Goodhugh for what you
say ? "

^' I do," he cried harshly.

^' And you don't in your heart think that
I have been to see Gil."

'' I tell thee, I do," he cried.

^^ And what is more, you don't think your
little girl would play you false."

^^What?" he cried, ^^ has not Gil been
at thy window ? "

Yes, father," she said; ^^as he has scores
of times when we were boy and girl together;
but I have bidden him come no
more. I never thought harm of it — only
that it was pleasant folly," she added,
dreamily.

VOL. II. I

** Out upon such folly 1" he cried.

^' Gil will not come again, and I shall 
see him no more, dear, till you bid us
meet ; and you do not believe that I should
ever deceive you."

** You turn me round your finger, child,"
he cried, catching her to his breast, and
kissing her passionately. ^^No, no, no; I
don't believe you went to that old woman
for such trash, nor to meet Gil Carr. I know
you couldn't deceive me, my darling ; and
if I am harsh to thee it is for thy good.
Ah! Tit, Tit, what a little witch thou art!"

*' Don't, father ! " she cried, starting from
him with a cry of pain.

'^ What is it, my bird ? What have I
done ? "

'^ You called me a witch," she said, with a
slight shudder, but trying to laugh it off.

'' Well ! an' if I did?" he said, laughing.

It was foolish to mind," she said ; '^ but
Mother Goodhugh just now was angry with

me, and called me witch, and uttered
threats."

^^ Against thee?" cried the founder, angrily.
'^ I say, then, let her curses return
upon her own head, witch that she is herself.
She shall go from Roehurst before this time
tomorrow."

'' Nay, nay, father," cried Mace, hastily ;
'^ don't visit her mad ravings upon her. Let
her rest. Poor thing ! she's crazed with
grief. Let her be — for my sake, let her be."

*^ What, and let her some day bring evil
upon us by her witcheries ? "

^* What, and is my stout, brave father
going to have faith in what yon silly woman
says ! " cried Mace, laughing. '' Come,
father, promise me you will not have her
touched."

'i'll promise thee anything, child," he
said, smoothing her soft hair, and bending
down to kiss her cheek.
i2

'' Any tiling, father ? " she cried.

'' Not quite, Mace," he said with a sigh;
^' but anything that is for thy good;" and
they walked on through the wood together,
the old man smiling and loitering as his
companion kept stooping to pick some
bright flower, for it put him in mind of her
childhood, when sweet Mace and the wildflowers
seemed each to belong to each. Now
it was the bright yellow meadow vetchling,
now the brilliant orange-tinted lotus, and
then long sprays of the purple-blossomed
tufted vetch.

Further on they came to a sunny opening
where the trees had been felled, and here
was quite a forest garden, where Mace
paused, with the care that had shaded her
face for days gone to leave it bright and
childlike once more ; while the founder
smiled as he stood and watched her run
from patch to patch, picking hastily and
talking the while.

' I won't be long, dear. Oh, how beautiful
the heath is ; what lovely sprays ! "

Then she ran to where the orange ragwort
threw up its tufts of sun like florets, picked
golden-rod and St. John's wort ; ran a few
steps to where the wood betony raised a
clump of purple-waving heads. These with
delicate grasses, pink robins, lavender scabious,
and soffc-foliaged golden-dished fleabane,
and hawkweed, made up a goodly
nosegay. But still, there was more and
more to add, for as she walked on it was
by a clump of golden genista, each plant a
bouquet in itself; bright pink starred centaury
; and then farther along by a hollow,
where the water lay in a dark pool, the
quaint stars of the branch bur-reed, with
abundance of forget-me-not, seemed to ask
the picking.

''Oh, father!" she cried merrily, as she
stopped at last, with a bunch of flowers as

large as her fingers could grasp, ^'what a
shame that I should keep thee thus ! "

'• Nay, nay, my child," he said, smiling,
as he stroked one of her soft flushed cheeks;
'^ it seems to do me good to see thee young
again. It is like a rest on life's journey,
and a pleasant halt where one can forget
one's hurry and toil. Mace, my pet," he
said, seating himself among the heath upon
a sandy bank, ^^I think I could give up
everything, except my garden and my pipe
and ale, if you and I could go on together
always like this."

'' Then let us go on like this, father," she
cried, seating herself at his feet and resting
her head against his knee. ^^Why should
we let trouble come between ? "

'' Because we can't help it, girl," he replied,
laughing. *^ He's let in by that little
mischief imp who comes unasked and holds
open the door for t'other, and then the sorrows

come. You know the boy I mean, Tit ;
his name is Love, and I repose it has always
been the same."

There came a curiously pained look in
Mace's eyes as she turned them quickly upto
her father, then the woodland nosegay
she had picked fell at her feet, and her head
drooped down upon his knee.

CHAPTER VII.

HOW THE BIG HOWITZER WAS FIRED.

Time glided on, and Gil's ship was fast getting
ready for sea. It was to be a good trip
this season ; and, as she approached completion,
her freight was gradually accumulated,
for, as in a quiet matter-of-fact way, the
captain let the relations between him and
Mace stand in abeyance, the founder made
some slight advances, and business arrangements
were resumed.

It would have been a serious matter for
both if they had stood out, for Gril formed
almost the only channel through which
Jeremiah Cobbe's productions were sold.

and upon him depended the supply of two
of the principal ingredients with which one
of the founder's branches of industry was
carried on.

So gunpowder was made and ground. Gil
though never asked to the house, nor
making any attempt to see Mace, and at their
casual encounters meeting her quite as a
friend — spent much of his time at the
founder's works, superintending a casting,
watching the purification of some batch of
nitre that he had brought home, and, above
all, helping at the trial of a newly-finished
howitzer or culverin.

The founder was pleased, for he told himself
that the young people were growing
sensible, and he became more friendly to
Gil, who at last, after sundry night journeys
had been noted by the people about, found
himself ready for another voyage.

^^When do you sail, then?" said the
founder to him one morning.

'' I have thought of going tomorrow," was
the reply; ^^but the tide hardly suits."

'^ Then put it off till the next day, my
lad, and we'll have out the new piece tomorrow,
and try her across the Pool."

'' With all my heart," said Gil, and the
next morning he was busy and light-hearted
at the foundry, with old Wat Kilby and half
a-dozen more, helping and superintending
the mounting and dragging out of the great
newly-finished piece of artillery, on which
the founder for some time had been engaged.
'' She'll startle some of them," he said, ashe
patted the great piece on the breech, just
as Mace came up slowly, and saluted Gril.
^^You shall have the first shot with her.
Tit," he said, as the idea occurred to him.

swill it be safe to let her?" said Gil,
rather anxiously, as he saw Mace shudder
and shrink back.

'' Safe ? Just as if one of my pieces could
burst !" cried the founder, disdainfully.

The girt barrel be ready, Mas' Cobbe,"
said Tom Croftly, as he came up to announce
that he had set up a great tub on a platform
of planks on the other side of the Pool.

'^ We'll soon batter that down," cried the
founder, as with a loud cheer the huge piece
of artillery was dragged up to the end of the
lake, facing the founder's house, the whole
of the men turning out to see the first discharge.


'^ You'll help me to load and train her ? "
said the founder, who was as excited over
the trial as a boy.

Ay, I'll help," cried Gril, rolling up the
sleeves of his doublet, and taking the lead at
charging the monster ; Mace smiling as she
looked on, and saw the strength he brought
to bear, ramming the powder, lifting the
great shot as if it were a child's ball, and
then driving it home.

*^ Don't aim at the target till we get the

charged shell," said the founder. ^^ This is
only a christening shot."

Then we'll call the piece ^ Mace the
First,' " said Gil, laughing.

'^ That's her name, then," said the founder;
^' and she shall be the first of many Maces.
Why are you aiming so low ? "

'' I want to show you a shot of mine that
I should use against a Spaniard if I wished
to sink her," said Gil, smiling, as by means
of wedges he depressed the muzzle of the
piece.

'^ But stop, man, the ball will go to the
bottom of the Pool, and I want you to hit
yon ragged oak."

^' So I shall," cried Gil, taking aim.
'' Give me leave, and you shall see."
'^ There," he said, when he had adjusted the
piece to his satisfaction, '^ that will about do.
Now, Wat, ready with that linstock. What
are you looking at, man ? "

Wat Kilby, whose eyes had been fixed on
Janet staring out of the window, uttered a
low growl, and lit the linstock.

^' Now, Master Cobbe," cried Gil, '' do you
feel satisfied that the piece is safe ? "

^' My life upon it," cried the founder.

Nay," said Gril, gently; " it is thy child's
life."

The founder frowned, and was about to
speak hastily, but he refrained.

'^ Thou art right, friend Gil," he said ;
'^ but have no fear, the piece is made of my
toughest stuff. Come, my child, be ready
with the linstock."

Gil's countenance betrayed his uneasiness ;
and, to give him confidence. Mace let her
eyes meet his, with a calm, loving look, as
she mastered her dread and horror, took the
burning linstock, and stood ready near the
breech.

There was a general rush to right and left
as the lighted linstock was brought forward ;

only the founder, Gil, and Wat Kilby, who
handed the light, remaining, the latter
coolly squatting down near the mouth of the
piece to watch the course of the shot.

The founder smiled grimly as he said to
his child :

'' A little more to the right, my lass.
I warrant she don't burst ; but she'll kick
like a Castilian mule. Now, captain, if you
like to stand aside, there's no need for you to
run a risk.

Gil smiled and nodded his head as he took
a final glance along the piece to satisfy himself
as to the direction in which it was laid.

There," he said, ''I am quite ready ;
raise your arm a little. Mace, and let the
burning linstock fall softly on the touch-hole.
Now, Master Cobbe, give the word, please ;
when you will."

"As I cry three," cried the founder —
'' Ready — One, two, threes

Gil stood by the side of the piece, opposite

to Mace, watching her face as she stood firm
and unflinching ; and as she lowered the
linstock he inwardly cried, '' Brave girl ! she
would face a peril that would kill any of less
sterling mould."

For, at the word ^^ three," she let the lin-stocked,
with its burning slow match, touch
lightly, exactly on the point where the
priming lay. Then there was a flash, a ball
of white smoke, vomited from the howitzer's
mouth, a deafening roar, and the great iron
ball struck the water fifty yards away, rose,,
dipped again, and went on skipping along
the surface of the water till it crossed the
lake, and split the decaying oak to fragments,
where it stood blasted on the further shore.

A loud hurrah from the lookers-on told of
their satisfaction ; and the founder turned in
admiration to the captain.

'' A wonderful shot," he said ; '' but how
learned you that trick, friend Gil? I thought
we should never see the ball again."

'^ From throwing stones," said Gil, smiling.
^^ If a stone should bound along the surface,
why not a shot ? That is the deadliest shot
to my mind, Master Cobbe, that one could
send at an enemy's ship, and it was bravely
fired."

Of course'' said the founder, proudly.
'^ If my child knew that I had made the
powder, and my hands had designed and
fashioned the piece, she felt she would have
naught to fear. And now for a shell."

Yes," said Gil, thoughtfully ; '^ now fora
shell. You think your piece will fire one
straight, Master Cobbe, as well as a mortar
throws one in a half-circle through the air?"

I do," said the founder. '' I lay my life
on it."

Then," said Gil, ''■ I'd like to try my
plan at the same times

'' What may that be, my lad ? "

'' Well, sir, it is this," said Gil. " You
load your piece, then you prepare your well-charged

shell, with a piece of slow match in
its eye."

'' Yes."

^' And according to whether that is long
or short, so is the time before it bursts the
shell."

'' Exactly, my lad."

'^ And you light the fuse or match before
you place it in the howitzer."

'' How else could you do it, my lad ? "

'^ That we will try," said Gil. '^ I propose
that you load the piece as you would a
common gun, and then put in the shell with
its fuse unlit."

'' Why, that's no better than a shot,"
cried Wat Kilby.

'' Nay, old lad, the powder would fire the
match when the piece went off, and thus
all the awkward preparation would be
saved."

'' My faith, Gil," said the founder, smiling,
^' it's a grand idea, and you shall try it ; for

VOL. II. K

if it succeeds there ought to be a big reward
for the man who invents such a plan."

Let's try, then," said Gil, quietly ; and,
with Wat Kilby's help, the piece was recharged,
a shell filled with powder, and, with
its fuse towards the charge, rammed home.
Then the great piece was laid so that it
commanded the broad tub set up as a mark.

^' I reckon," said Gil, '^ that this shell
should burst just about when it strikes that
mark, which should be shattered to pieces;
and, if an enemy's ship, or a fortress, terribly
crippled by the effect."

^^ Good, my lad, it should," said the
founder, smiling.

Without another word, Gil carefully adjusted
the piece ; the linstock was again
handed to Mace, and, hiding a shudder, for
her father's sake she once more fired the
great gun, and after a few moments, as the
roar rolled like thunder over the Pool, the
founder exclaimed —

'' A failure, Gil, a "

Crash !

From a mile away came the roar of the
bursting shell, like an echo of the first
shot.

A success, sir, a success; but we wanted
a quarter the fuse," said Gil, smiling.

"It's glorious — it's grand!" cried the
founder, excitedly. ^* Gil, your hand — nay,
we don't shake hands now. Captain Carr,
you could make a name as the greatest
gunner in our land. Mace, my child, bravely
fired. Why, that shell must have struck the
high rocks, where the new ironstone lies."

'' Ay, it has," said Wat Kilby, who stood
shading his eyes with his hand, as he gazed
at the high precipitous rocks away behind
the gabled house.

^' Quick, there, another shot!" cried the
founder. ^' Mace, my child, art ready for
another ? "

'' Nay, father," she said quietly, and with
ka

pained look in her eyes ; " you should
try this time."

Ay, lass, and I will' he cried, as he
watched the sponging-out and reloading of
the piece ; while Mace, who little recked in
that shot of what she had done for her future,
stood now a spectator, instead of an actor in
the scene.

The piece was soon ready, and this time
the shell was prepared by Gil himself, with
a shorter fuse.

'* Lay her so that the shell may burst over
the great charcoal-heap by the corner of the
wood," said the founder; and, after exercising
a great deal of care, Gil laid the piece quite
to his satisfaction.

Now try," he said. '' Ready ! "

Ready," cried the founder.

'' Fire."

The linstock was again applied ; there was
the same tremendous roar ; the great piece
leaped back several feet, and a few seconds

later, crash! came the bursting of the shell
once more, so near to the charcoal hill that
the air was filled with the fragments that
were scattered far.

'' A great success, Gil ; you have won a
prize'' cried the founder, " one of those that
the world will talk of a century hence ; but
hey-day ! what's this ? "

There was the quick trampling of horses'
feet, and at the end of a few seconds two
horsemen came tearing along the track at
full speed, their riders having apparently
lost all control over their steeds. The first
kept his seat, and tugged hard at the bridle ;
but the second was well on his horse's neck,
to which he clung with all his might, his red
face and his thickly-padded feather breeches
showing that it was Sir Thomas Beckley,
whose appearance was greeted by the founder
with a roar of laughter.

Gil hardly glanced at him, for the happy
sunshine of the past hours seemed to have

been clouded, as the frightened horses stopped
of their own accord, and he saw that the
first arrival was Sir Mark, whose horse, like
that of the baronet, had been startled by the
bursting shell.

CHAPTER VIII.

HOW SIR mark's men CAME TO GRIEF.

'^ Confound you, fool," cried Sir Mark, leaping
from his restive steed ; and as he spoke
his eyes rested upon Gil. ^^ Have a care
how you fire. Your blundering nearly cost
worshipful Sir Thomas Beckley his life."

Gil met his eye with a cold stare of defiance
that made the hot blood dance in the
other's veins.

^^ It was I who fired the shell, Sir Mark,"
said the founder, curtly ; ^^ and it were well
when I am trying my pieces if visitors gave
notice of their coming."

^' I came, sir, on the King's business," said
Sir Mark, sharply ; " and so ride where and

when I will ! I trust thou art not hurt, Sir
Thomas."

The worthy baronet felt for his hat, which
was gone, and with it his Sunday plume, aSy
evidently congratulating himself that he was
safe on earth again and free of his frightened
steed, he raised his fat eyelids a little wider
and gaped like a fish, opening his lips and
shutting them without a sound.

See," he continued, 'the worthy justice
is hurt. I ask your pardon. Mistress Mace,
but I was concerned for Sir Thomas. Will
you help me to lead him into the house —
with your permission. Master Cobbe."

^ Permission ?' ' cried th e founder. ^ ^ There,
sir, leave your ceremony in town when you
come to see me. Sir Thomas, I am sorry
our firing startled your good nag : come in
and drink a cup of wine, and you'll be all
right in a twinkling."

Sir Thomas wanted to be dignified, and
refuse, but at the same time he felt ready to

give his ears for a glass of wine. He was
shaken, bruised, and his nerve had gone ; in
fact he had given himself over for a deadman,
when his horse stopped beside the
group of workmen ; so, sinking his dignity,
he followed the founder across the little
bridge and into the house, Sir Mark following,
with Mace, who knew that she must beat
hand to play the hostess.

Just then a couple of Sir Mark's followers,
half soldiers, half servants, — cantered up,
and, seeing at a glance that no harm was
done, threw themselves from their horses, and,
pitching the reins to the nearest workmen,
strutted and stared about in a condescending
way, as if the rusticity of the place and
people was highly amusing to their London
minds.

Gil leaned with his back against the gun,
gazing after those who entered the house ;
and a feeling of bitterness came over him
as he recalled the fact that the next day he

sailed on a voyage that might take him
three, four, or five months, and he would
have to go and leave the woman he loved
exposed to the persecutions of this man.

He smiled as he glanced down at himself,
at his loose shirt smeared and blackened
with gunpowder, his bare arms and hands
smirched with the same ; and he compared
himself with the gaily-attired officer who
had alighted and entered the house, and not
to his own advantage.

^^ Even his grooms cut a better figure,"
muttered Gil.

His musings were cut short by a growl
from Wat Kilby.

^' How now, old bear ! " he said, bitterly.
*' Is thy head sore ? "

*^ It'll be somebody else's head sore
directly," growled the old fellow, who had
just been a witness of the fact that one of
Sir Mark's followers had seen Janet's bright
face at the window, as she gazed admiringly

at the showily-dressed new arrivals, and had
kissed his hand to her — a compliment the
pretty handmaiden was not slow to acknowledge.


'snow, Wat, you must not heed such
things," said Gil. ^' What is the girl to
thee?"

^^ This much, skipper, that if he don't

mind-there : if he affronts me I'll stuff

him head first into the gun, as I be a sinful
man."

^^ Silence, old fool!" cried Gil, angrily.
^' The girl is nothing, and never will be, to
thee. Get me my doublet and cap, for the
new babe is baptized and the visitors may
all go home."

^'Old fool, eh?" growled Wat. swell,
perhaps I be. Never mind ; it's pleasant to
be an old fool if it be on account of a pretty
woman."

As he spoke he fetched his skipper's
doublet and cap from the place where they

had hung, and was turning with them to
Gil, who had stooped down by the edge of
the Pool to wash off some of the tightly-clinging
powder, when one of Sir Mark's
followers walked up, and, rudely slapping
Gil on the shoulder, cried,

^ ^ Stop there, fellow ; you have not done
yet.'^

^^No," said the other, swaggering up;
^^ you've fired for your pleasure; now, perhaps,
you'll have to fire for ours."

^^ My lads," said Gil, quietly, ^^ I am not
in a quarrelling humour to-day. Go to thy
master, or maybe his livery may get sullied
in the Pool."

'' Insolent ! " cried one.

'^ What does he mean?" cried the other.
^' Stop, I say; keep your doublet off till Sir
Mark gives you leave to put it on."

He made a snatch at the garment Twas
handing to his leader, wondering the
while how Gil could be so calm, but as the

fellow snatched at the sleeve Gil's open hand
dealt him so tremendous a blow in the chest
that he staggered backwards; and, as his
companion leaped at Gil to help his comrade,
Wat thrust out a foot and sent him
sprawling on the ground.

The two men leaped up, whipped out
their swords, and made at Gil, who half
drew his own weapon, but thrust it back
with a contemptuous ^^Pish!" and, as the
first man made a pass at him, he struck it
aside with his open hand, closed with his
assailant, disarmed him, and snapped his
sword in two.

The other was more cautious, but Gil
watched his opportunity, tore his sword from
his hand, and served it the same.

Blind with rage, the two men drew their
daggers, and made at him again ; but by
this time Gigs men had closed round, and
Sir Mark's followers were seized and disarmed.


^^ What shall we do with them, captain ?''
said one of the sailors ; but Gil had walked
away in disgust at the treatment he received
from the founder, and the order came from
Wat Kilby—

Pitch 'em overboard, my lads, into the
Pool."

Meanwhile, Sir Mark had entered the old
parlour, and gladly, like Sir Thomas, availed
himself of the founder's hospitality after a
long, hot, and dusty ride. The exciting
finish, too, had begotten thirst. He had a
dozen gallant sayings to bestow upon Mace,
whose mind was full of the insult he had
thrown at Gil; and her heart beat with
pleasure as she recalled her lover's calm
sense of contempt for the gaily-dressed fly
who had stung him in the breast.

This is not a bad glass of wine, Master
Cobbe," said Sir Thomas, who was drinking
his third.

« I'm glad you like it," said the founder,

who kept glancing at Sir Mark and his child
in an uneasy way; '^ it's part of a cask
brought me from the south of Spain
itself."

^^Ah, yes" said the worthy justice; ^^ it
is not bad."

'' The days have seemed weeks since I
have been away, Mistress Cobbe," whispered
Sir Mark ; ' ^ and I have tried so earnestly to
come."

*sis it on business to ray father ? " said
Mace, who felt that she must say something

'^ That depends, sweet," he said in a low
voice. "" I come as a friend or as an enemy,
as he will, and as the fair Mistress Mace
may will. His Majesty has charged me with
a mission to Master Cobbe, that means —
shall I speak plainly ? "

If you please, Sir Mark," she replied.
I do not understand you else."

'' Then I will speak out, even at the risk

of offending— nay, I would say hurting, one
who, I hope, is very glad to welcome me
back."

"You said you would speak plainly. Sir
Mark," replied Mace.

Ay, and so I will," he said ; ^' but surely
I may prolong our discourse. Think how
many weary weeks it is since I heard thy
voice."

*' You said you came as a friend, or as an
enemy to my father, Sir Mark," replied
Mace, ignoring the compliment. " You must
come as a friend when you enter his house
and partake of his hospitality."

Tush ! how sharp the little rustic mind
can be. Nay, child; how did you know
I meant to stay ? " he added aloud.

From thy manner. Sir Mark."

Then I trust it will be as a friend that I
have come," he said, eagerly ; " and that my
stay here may be long, and bring great

riches to your father's purse. It rests with
him, or with thee, I hardly can tell which."
Your words are strange, Sir Mark," said
Mace, who kept on talking, but with her
thoughts far away, for the sounds of angry
voices had fallen upon her ear, and she was
trembling lest anything wrong should have
arisen on account of Gil.

'' Nay, then, how can I speak otherwise ?"
whispered Sir Mark, as Sir Thomas prosed
on with the founder, praising his wine, and
condescending to drink deeply, for it was'
greatly to his taste — " how can I speak otherwise
when I am so confused and stricken by
thee? Let me speak plainly, then."

See to thy men, Sir Mark," cried Mace,
hurrying to the open window; for just then
came an angry buzz of voices, shouts mingled
with laughter, and cries for help, in
which Sir Mark's name was mingled.

In two strides he was at the window.

VOL. II. L

The next moment he had leaped out, just as
there were a couple of splashes, and he saw,
just where the race commenced, his two followers
plunged into the Pool.

CHAPTER IX.

HOW WAT Kirby WAS NOT DUCKED.

Men, when half angry, are in their horseplay
rather disposed to be brutal, and it was so
here. Sir Mark's followers had made themselves
exceedingly obnoxious to those of Gril,
and they had seen him defend himself against
a furious attack before, treating his enemies
with contempt, he had brushed them aside
and walked away. There was a fine opportunity
then to avenge the insult to their
leader, and to teach the gaily - dressed
strangers to be a little less important and
condescending to the people amongst whom
they had come.

Ever since the world began there has been
l2

the desire to dress up the frail tenement of
clay in which our souls do dwell, and to
make it bright and gaudy. In early days it
was perhaps only a daub of red earth, the
blue or purple stain of a berry or leaf, or a
brightly-tinted feather from some wild bird's
wing; and no sooner was the decoration
donned than envy came upon the scene,
mingled with dislike. Possession could not
be had of the gay adornment, but there was
the satisfaction of seeing the bright colours
fade, the daub of gaily-hued earth washed
away by the same heavy rain that bedraggled
the feather, and made its plumes stick to
the shaft. This same feeling exists in a.d.
1883 as it did in the year 3500 + b.c., and
no greater pleasure can be given to a rough
mob than that of seeing some well-dressed
individual come down into the mud.

The followers of Gilbert Carr then felt a
real annoyance at seeing these showily-dressed
men vapouring about, and hence it

was with sincere pleasure that they heard
Wat's order, one which they were not slow
in putting into effect.

Four of the sturdy sailor-looking men
seized the strangers on the instant; while
the work people freely helped; and the result
was that, in spite of struggles, cries, and
piteous appeals, first one and then the other
was plunged into the rushing water of the
mill-race, and borne towards the turning
wheel.

As for Wat Kilby, he would have felt
a grim satisfaction in seeing both swept
through, over the fall into the deep hole
beyond, where he would have helped to fish
them out half drowned ; but there were
plenty of work people present who would not
allow matters to go to such an extremity,
but were already about to lend aid as Sir
Mark leaped out of the window, to be
followed more deliberately by the founder
through the door, Sir Thomas staying behind

to have another glass of the very satisfactory
wine.

Sir Mark then was in time to see his two
men carefully fished out, to stand staggering
and dripping on the edge of the Pool.

^' How was this?" he cried ^' Whose
doing was it ? " he repeated, stamping his
foot angrily, and gazing round as his men
sputtered, panted, and pressed the water out
of their eyes.

For answer there was a tremendous roar
of laughter, which exasperated him the more,
as he looked eagerly around for Gil, or
some one worthy of his steel.

The founder was more successful, for oncoming
up and asking a similar question
gazing angrily the while at Wat Kilby, that
individual uttered a low laugh.

'' This was thy doing!" the founder cried
fiercely, as he scowled at the old sailor.

'^ Ay, and suppose it was. Master Cobbe.
What then ? " growled Wat.

*^ You dog ! How dare you insult my
guests?" he cried. '^ I'll have no more of
thy ill-conditioned drunken ways. Here,
Croftly, Jenkins, a dozen of you, serve this
old brawler, here, the same. I will have him
punished, Sir Mark, or my name is not
Cobbe."

He turned to his guest, and then his subjoined,
rugged face became purple with
fury, for, of all the group of his busy workmen
about, not one stirred to do his bidding.

^' Do you hear?" he roared, furiously.
^•' In with that fellow there."

Wat Kilby laughed, and seated himself on
a block of stone, took out his pipe and flint
and steel with exasperating calmness, and
prepared to strike a light.

Still no one moved, and Sir Mark, who
was irritated beyond endurance, called to his
followers to throw Wat in themselves.

But the two men shivered and glanced
towards their horses, so thoroughly had they

been cowed by their wetting ; and, seeing
this, Sir Mark made at the old fellow
himself.

Up with you, boor," he cried, presenting
his sword as if to prick the old fellow
towards the waler.

Wat ceased nicking the steel against the

flint, blew at the tinder, lit his pipe, and

puffed a cloud in the face of Sir Mark, as,

rising suddenly, he towered over him, and

looked down with a cool laugh.

'^ Put up thy sword, my fine fellow," he
cried. ^^ Thou art not going to poor me,
and there isn't a man here who would raise a
finger to help thee. I gave my lads here
orders to duck your men for insulting our
captain, and they did it well. Come away,
boys, we are not wanted here."

The great fellow's coolness seemed somehow
to stagger Sir Mark, while the founder
made no further attempt to interfere, as Wat
thrust his tobacco in one pocket, his flint

and steel in the other ; and, puffing away at
his pipe, went slowly off, staring hard at the
house for a glance at Janet. Then passing
the great howitzer he gave it an affectionate
slap upon the breech, and marched towards
the forest.

^' In with you," cried Sir Mark to his
followers ; ^' in and get your garments dry.
Master Cobbe, these men will have to be
brought to book."

He glanced round haughtily at the group
of work people, who did not, however, seem
much impressed either by him or his ways,
for they merely nodded and whispered together,
ending by broadly grinning at the
figure cut by the two half-drowned men, who
followed the founder into one of the stone
furnace-sheds, where they were furnished
with blankets to use as wrappers while their
clothes were rapidly dried.

Sir Thomas shortly after left on foot,
alleging that he was too much hurt by the

saddle to attempt to mount again ; and Ms
horse was ridden back for him by one of the
founder's boys.

The worthy baronet and justice reached
home looking very hot and weary, to be met
on the step by his daughter.

^^ Where is Sir Mark ? '' she cried.

'' My dear, I left him at the Pool," replied
Sir Thomas, feebly, for the attack made by
his daughter was sharp.

left him there? Did I not say thou
wert to stay and bring him back ? "

But, my dear "

^' Oh, out upon you!" cried Mistress Anne,
stamping her foot in anger. ^' Fie, father, fie ;
I try so hard to do justice to thy house, and
welcome our guest back as becomes his rank.
I try to let him see that he is the visitor of
a baronet, and what do you do, my father,
but slight him — leave him to the care of
these people at the foundry, for him to stay
as he stayed before. It is a shame."

Poor Sir Thomas tried to put on his
magisterial air, but failed dismally, as he
always did when he tried to do battle with
his child. He could frighten his different
domestics till they trembled in awe of his
presence ; but his daughter seemed to have
so great an influence over him that he was
fain to open and shut his lips in fish-like
muteness, and obey her to the very letter.

It was a great relief to him then when
Mistress Anne flounced out of the room, and
he heard a door upstairs bang very loudly,
being a signal that she had shut herself,
angrily, in her own bower, as it was called
by the maids.

^'Poor child," he muttered; ^^ I fear her
heart is set on this young knight."

^'What's that you say?" exclaimed Dame
Beckley, who had entered, and heard a part
of his speech.

'^ I say, I fear me that her heart is set
upon this young knight, my dear."

"Tut— tut — tut. Yes, I suj^posG so,"
replied the dame. " But the other day it
was that Captain Gil."

Ay, she's a headstrong girl," said the
baronet; " and we shall have much trouble
with her yet. How much she takes after my
family, to be sure ! "

Dame Beckley glanced sidewise at her
lord, but she did not speak ; and then, hearing
that Sir Mark had not returned, and that
Sir Thomas did not know whether he would
return, she fully divined how it was that the
eruption of temper had taken place; and
sighing, and wishing her daughter well wed,
she retired to cull simples in the garden,
and feel thankful that she had outgrown all
such troubles of her own.

Chapter X.

HOW SIR MARK PLAYED HIS CARDS.

There was news at the Pool-house next day
that Culverin Carr's ship had sailed ; Jeremiah
Cobbe hearing thereof from his man,
Tom Croftly. ^

'^ Heaven send them a good voyage, master,"
said the workman, ^" I hear the girt
ship went down the river at daybreak, and
there's a brave deal of our work on board."

^^Yes," said the founder, thoughtfully;
and thence began thinking about Gil.

'she's gone off, poor boy, and without a
word of good-bye. I was rough enough to
him yesterday, and yet he showed me a plan
that is a little fortune in itself. Poor lad, I

like him ; but tut — tut ; there, it can never
be ; Mace is no mate for him, and I'm glad
that he has gone."

He was busying himself soon after in seeing
the big howitzer dragged back to the
shelter of a shed, so as to be free to talk
to Sir Mark, who had intimated or rather
ordered him to be ready for a conference
at ten of the clock ; and, in spite of his bluff
independence, there was that in his guest's
manner that made him rather uneasy, as
much on his child's account as upon his own.

There's something behind," he said ;
^^ something I don't understand; and, though
I could fight him well enough in a fair and
open quarrel, when they get to their diplomacy
and policy, and 
ways, I'm done."

The thoughts of the previous day's shell-firing,
however, put Sir Mark out of his
head; and he was thinking whether it would
not be wise to have the howitzer out once

more to try the same experiments, when Sir
Mark, who had been waiting since breakfast
to gain an interview with Mace, and quite
in vain, now joined him by the edge-stone
of the race.

For Mace had had hard work to maintain
her composure at the morning meal; having
heard, as she had from Janet only just before,
that Gil's ship had sailed.

She was not satisfied with their parting,
for she felt in her heart that he would be
troubled at the presence of Sir Mark, whose
inopportune return had, as it were, cast a
shadow on Gil's last day.

"But he'll trust me," she said, with a satisfied
smile; ^' and he may. There, I'll fret no
more, for time will make all smooth, no
doubt."

As to Sir Mark, she felt that she must be
very plain with him, and trust to his being
enough of a gentleman to cease what would
degenerate into persecution if continued in

face of her declaration that she could not
listen to his suit.

So Mace brightened up, and told herself
that there was no need to be at all uneasy
about their guest, setting him down as a
vain coxcomb, without giving him the credit
for being, to gain his own ends, unscrupulous
to a degree.

'^Ah, Sir Mark'' exclaimed the founder,
heartily; 'i've seen thy two fellows, and a
hearty breakfast has set them right. They
are none the worse for their last night's
dip."

'bodily, perhaps not, Master Cobbe; but
mentally I'll vow that they are very ill. My
followers are soldiers and gentlemen, and
cannot suffer so great an affront without
some heed. Those people with their leader
will have to be hunted out of the place."

Thou'lt want ships to hunt them now,"
said the founder, drily; " for they are oiF to
sea."

^' What ! at sea ? Why, they were here
but now."

^^ But now?"

Well, last even," said Sir Mark. ^^They
cannot be gone."

Tut, man. Culverin Carr and his men
work by night, when such as we are asleep.
They were at the mouth of the river, where
the sea beats on the sand-bar, before you
woke this morning, I'll be bound."

'' You seem to be well acquainted with
their movements, Master Cobbe," said sir
Mark.

Not I," was the reply. " When I've sold
cargo to Captain Gil I ask no more except
to have a written promise from him to pay
me my money, which generally comes in
sulphur and in Chinese salts never inquire
into his sailing or comings-in. It is as well
not, and they're pretty secret over them,
taking on board, sailing, and the like."

This is curious work, Master Cobbe, in

VOL. n. M

his Majesty's dominions. Law and order
seem to be held cheaply here. It was time
something was done."

And yet, sir, we have gone on for years,
offending none, and have found life very
bearable," said the founder, warmly. " We
owe no man aught, and we ask no favours
from any. But you had business to do with
me, Sir Mark. Shall we go in ?"

'' No," said Sir Mark, " I'll say what I
have to say out here."

The founder softly rubbed his hands and
wished that the great howitzer had not been
replaced in the shed, for it might have been
fired again, and its wonderful strength and
carrying powers exhibited to the King's
messenger. If he saw its value, and made
good representations at court, that would
be a large fortune for his child.

He rubbed his hands again, smiling to
himself the while, till he awoke suddenly to
the fact that Sir Mark was watching, when

he seemed suddenly to tighten himself up,
and gazed back shrewdly at his companion,
who smiled and said —

"I came back to you, Master Cobbe,
armed with great powers by His Majesty, to
whom I have talked long and learnedly
upon your works and knowledge of the arts
and mysteries of making guns."

"That is well. Sir Mark," said the founder,
smiling. " And what said his Majesty ?"

He left in my hands the power and
discretion to order of you — largely — sundry
munitions of war."

That is good," said the founder, rubbing
his hands, as if the palms began to itch to
feel the money.

"If I was satisfied with the quality and
workmanship."

I tell thee, Sir Mark, that the equals of
my pieces are not to be found in this
country, search where you will. , I take
M 2

such pains to have aught but the toughest
iron, and as to finish "

'^ Exactly, Master Cobbe," said the knight,
smiling in a half-cynical manner ; '^ but that
is your view of the matter."

'^ No man ever knew me to lie or to
cheat in trading. Sir Mark," said the founder,
hotly. " I will compare my pieces with
those of any foundry in "

^' Yes, yes, exactly. Master Cobbe, exactly.
But, hark ye, I have, as I tell thee, full
authority to deal with thee, but everything
depends upon my report."

*^ Try the report of the pieces themselves,"
said the founder, chuckling. '^ There, speak
out, my lad. If it be a case of commission,
say what you require, and I'll tell thee at
once whether I'll pay or no."

'^ Do you wish to insult me. Master
Cobbe ?" said the knight, haughtily.

'' Insult thee ? No, my lad, not I. Would

it be any insult to offer thee a hundred or
two for thine introduction ?"

"Silence, man!" cried Sir Mark, angrily.
'^ I am no dealer seeking a bribe, but one
who would do you a good turn, if possible,
at a very difficult time. You have enemies."

*' If successful, didst ever know a man
without?"

^* And they have somehow given the King
to understand that it was really you who
supplied the conspirators with the powder
for their deadly plot." *

'^ But I swear ," began the founder.

'^ What good will that do, sir ? An enemy
swears against thee, and humours the king,
who, so great is his hatred of such matters,
lends willing ear to the charge, and would
rather believe the treason of thee than not."

That's a pretty state of affairs !" cried
the founder. " Do you mean to tell me. Sir
Mark, that the king would willingly believe
an honest man guilty ? "

His Majesty gives much of his time to
two subjects — that of witchcraft and that of
schemes against his person. You know how
deadly a plot was laid against him by his
Papist enemies?"

Ay, I know all that ; but "

"Hear me out, Master Cobbe, then you
shall speak to your heart's content. Here is
the case. It has been reported to his Majesty
that you are a great factor of deadly gunpowder;
that you sell it largely to his
Majesty's enemies; and that at the present
time you are receiving into your house
a Papist spy — one Father Brisdone, who
is making arrangement for a fresh supply
of powder for some new plan."

^^ It's a lie !" roared the founder, striking
his doubled fist in his opened hand. '^ Now,
look here, Master Ambassador, or whatever
you call yourself, how comes his Majesty to
know aught about my powder and Father

Brisdone ? It strikes me, sir, that yours have
been the lips that made the mischief."

Sir Mark was taken aback by this outburst,
but he recovered himself pretty
quickly.

^^ I will not take offence, neither will I
argue with you upon such a point, Master
Cobbe," he said, coldly. '' Let me ask you
this — Was mine the speech that gave evil
report of thee to the King, which said evil
report first brought me down ? "

^' True! " exclaimed the founder. ^' I
beg thy pardon, my lad. There is some busy
meddling rascal, then, who tells tales of me
and mine. Well, all I say is, let him look
to it. I would not be he for a something if
we two stood together some night by the
millpool."

'' You would not throw him in ? " said Sir
Mark.

^^ No ; but I might push him in, and leave
him to get out how he could. But there,

you can send word to his Majesty that he
has been deceived. Certainly I sell powder
to go abroad along with my guns — powder
made of the softest dogwood charcoal we can
burn."

'^ Yes," said Sir Mark ; ^^ I could, as you
say, send word to his Majesty that it is not
so, but it would require backing up with
stronger asseveration."

*^ To be sure'' said the founder; ^^ and
that you will make. You tell his Majesty
that I am the last man in the kingdom to do
him harm."

^^ Why should I tell him this. Master
Cobbe?"

'' Why? Why tell him?" said the blunt
founder. '^ Why? Because it is the truth."

Sir Mark smiled, and stood apparently
thinking for a while before he spoke again.

*' Master Cobbe, I have the power to place
in thy hands," he said at last, ^' the supplying
of as many pieces of ordnance and as much

good, strong powder, as thou could'st make,
for the use of his Majesty's forces, in an expedition
to be sent to Holland. What say
you ; will you supply the guns ? "

** Price, my lad, price ? Will his Highness
pay me well ? "

^* I will undertake to say that he will,
Master Cobbe ; and, what is more, I can see
that it is done. Make your own fair, honest
charge for the pieces and their food, and
there will be no demur."

*' Look here. Sir Mark,"replied the founder,
looking the speaker full in the face ; " you
turned angry when 1 talked of giving you a
recompense for this order, and called it
bribery. What does it all mean ? Thou
would'st not do all this for naught."

*' Is there no such thing as gratitude in
the world. Master Cobbe ?"

*' Plenty, sir ; but court gallants don't
come spreading it out like beaten gold over

a rough country workmaster, unless they
want to get something back."

' You are witty at the expense of court
gallants, as you call them, Master Cobbe,"
said Sir Mark, laughing. " Tut, man, be
not so dense. Is it a surprise to you that I
should have spent my time in London working
hard on thy behalf ? Here was an order
for ordnance going a-begging. What more
natural for me to say than — Here is honest
Jeremiah Cobbe, who can make better pieces
than his Majesty will get elsewhere, and it
will force him back into the King's esteem,
instead of his lying under the stigma of being
a traitor ? What more likely for me to do
than to get him the order ? "

'' Then, thou hast gotten me the order, eh,
Sir Mark?"

^^Nay, I have obtained for myself the
power to give thee that order. Master
Cobbe."

^^ And at what price ? ''

Tush, man, speak not of price," cried
the other, eagerly. ^^ What are prices to us ?
Can you not see that our interests are one,
and that I am working for myself as well as
thee?"

^^Nay," said the founder, bluntly; ^'I
see it not."

'' You will not see it. Master Cobbe," said
Sir Mark, smiling. ^'Why, man, I have
but one thought — for thy welfare."

** Indeed," said the founder, bluntly; ^'and
why ? "

'^ Why ?" cried Sir Mark. " You ask me
why, when you know so well that I would
do aught for the father of the woman I love."

^^Ah," said the founder, drily; 'now we
have got to it at last. So that mad wish of
thine is not dead yet."

'mad wish! Why, Master Cobbe, for
what do you take me ? "

"A very good hand at a bargain. Sir

Mark. Nay, nay, stop you, and let me
speak, for you have had a goodly say. You
come to me then, now, scorning all kinds of
commission for the great order you have to
bestow, but you say to me all the same —
Here is the order, give me thy daughter in
return."

^^ Master Cobbe!"

'^ Sir Mark Leslie ! Now, sir, what manner
of man do you take me to be, that you offer
me goodly orders in exchange for my own
poor flesh and blood ?"

^^ No, no, Master Cobbe; you do not speak
me fair."

^^I think I do, sir," replied the founder.
*ego, take thy great order elsewhere, I'll
have none of it. My child weds some day a
man of her own station, who is a suitable
mate. I shall not take a bribe to give her
to the first who tries to tempt me."

'' Some, come, Master Cobbe, you are too
hard. You know I love her."

^* Yes ; you say so, sir."
^'Be not so hard, then. Give me access
to her."

Access to her, man ? You speak as if I
locked her in her room. My child is free
enough, and she will tell thee readily that
she is no mate for Sir Mark Leslie."
*' Nay, nay, Master Cobbe ! "
'' Nay, nay, Sir Mark. There, sir, you are
welcome to what my house affords while it
pleases thee to stay, for I will not quarrel
with thee ; but let us have no more converse
about such matters as these."

'^ And the order. Master Cobbe, one that
would bring thee thousands ? "

'' Take it elsewhere sir ; take it elsewhere.
You are a very good, generous kind of devil,
no doubt, but thy temptations will not succeed
at so great a price."

^^Bah!" ejaculated Sir Mark. '^ Devil,
forsooth ! One would think, man, I asked for
thy soul."

^'And what else dost ask for?" cried the
founder, angrily, ^' but for the pure, sweet
girl who is to me my very life and soul.
There, I'll speak no more on it. I get
angered, and I've had repentance enough
for quarreling with you once before, good
guest. There, sir, as I said before, the house
is open to you and to your men. Take its
hospitality ; as to that order, make of it what
you can."

Evidently growing hot and angry, the
founder turned away to go and cool himself
so it seemed — in his hottest furnace, while
Sir Mark stood watching him till he disappeared,
with a smile upon his lips.

The old fellow is tougher than I thought,"
he said. " I expected the prospect of the
money would have won his consent. Well,
it makes me feel a kind of respect for him
after all, rough as he is. But stop a bit,
Master Cobbe, you'll execute the King's
order and make money by it. You'll give

me sweet Mace's hand, and sooner or later
I'll have thy savings to the last penny to
clear off my little debts, and enable my
beautiful rustic wife to keep up such style as
shall make the sneering dames at court think
twice before they slight one who has beauty,
power, and position."

As he spoke, he glanced at an open window,
where Mace, trembling and excited, had
been an unseen spectator of the meeting,
standing far back in the room, and giving a
sigh of relief as she saw her father stride
angrily away.

CHAPTER XI.

HOW GIL INTERRUPTED A DISCUSSION.

There must be something very fascinating
in the herb called tobacco, or else the
reverend gentlemen, who had commenced
taking it with distaste, would never have
grown to be steady smokers ; and, in spite of
Mistress Hilberry's sour looks, met evening
by evening to enjoy their pipes with the
regularity of a clock.

But so it was, and it grew to be quite a
custom for Master Peasegood to welcome
Father Brisdone daily, and lay his pipe
ready to his hand when he seated himself at
the table.

'^ Yes," said Master Peasegood, as they

sat together ; ' ' our gay spark has come
back, and he has had a long talk with
Jeremiah Cobbe. He wants to have our
little maiden's hand."

'^ But he must not," cried Father Bris-done,
excitedly. better that she should
enter some holy walls as the bride of Christ."

'^ Humph ! " ejaculated Master Peasegood ;
*^I don't quite agree with you there, brother;
but we will not argue. I am with you that
he should not marry our little maiden. By
the way, he let drop to friend Cobbe something
about you''

'^ How know you this ? " said the father.

'^ Why Cobbe told me, to be sure''

^* Under the seal of confession ? "

*' Seal of stuff! " cried Master Peasegood,
testily. '^ I don't confess. He told me, and
asked my advice, and I tell my most intimate
friend. Look here, brother. It seems they
won't let thee alone."

"Indeed! And why?"

VOL. II, N

^^ There's a rumour out that thou art down
here to purchase powder for some new plot,
and Master Cobbe is in a fine way about it."

'^ And you ? What did you say to him ?''

'^ Told him he was a fool."

'^ Hah ! " said Father Brisdone.

'^ I was just in the humour," said Master
Peasegood. '' I am just in the humour now.
Why I'd rather marry the poor girl myself
than see her handed over to that court
pie."

^^ And Master Cobbe — what says he ? "

^'That he'd sooner see her in her grave."

'' Poor girl, poor, sweet girl !" said Father
Brisdone. '^ It must not be, brother. We
must fight on the other side."

"' There'll be no need."

'^ Nay, but there will. Yon spark is
cunning and crafty, and he will work upon
the old man till he consents. If they have
designs against me, I may at any time be
removed or have to flee. If this be so, I

leave you to li.^iit on that poor girl's side to
the very last."

Have you seen her lately ? "

'^ I was there four days since for a good
and pleasant hour," said Father Brisdone,
with a sigh. '' Nay," he said, smiling,
*' look not so suspiciously; I said no word
on religion to her. What need was there
when her breast is so pure and free from
guile ? "

Master Peasegood stretched out his broad
fat hand, and pressed that of his friend. •

Thank you, brother," he said, smiling.
*^ It's strange how we have drifted together.
I'll confess it; I've tried hard indirectly,
and hoped to get thee over to our Church."

'^ Not harder than I have tried indirectly
with thee," said Father Brisdone, smiling.
^^ Ah, brother, why should we trouble ourselves
about it when we are both journey mg
on the highway. You like to walk in boots,
and I prefer sandals."

n2

'^ Hall, yes," said Master Peasegood ; ^' but
then I do save my feet from the grit, and
dust, and thorns of the way."

^' Yes, but then I travel with shaven
crown and cooler head than you in your
thick flap hat."

^^ Yes, perhaps so. But there, there, why
should, we discourse about such matters ?''

'' True, brother, when we are both hopeful
that, in spite of contending dogma, we may
reach the heavenly gate in company ; and it
strikes me," he added with a smile, '^ that if
we do the good saint may give us both a
welcoming smile."

^^ Brother," said Master Peasegood, leaning
across the table, ^'if he had not one for
you, I'd, I'd — bless me that I would — I'd
take him to task about the fact."

^^ Take him to task!"

'' Ay ! Remind him of a bit of weakness
of his when a certain cock did crow."

Father Brisdone looked up with a half-amused,

half sorrowful expression. Then,
with a sigh :

If the good saint had no welcome for
my companion, and held the door open forme
alone, I should feel that I had been mistaken
all my life, join hands with my friend,
and accompany him back."

There was another hearty shake of the
hand at this, and then the two friends sat
and smoked in silence for a time.

Look here, brother's said Master Pease-good,
suddenly ; '' we both love and like "to
direct sweet Mace, and leave another roaming
about like a poor lost lamb. Now, why
don't you take up Mistress Anne Beckley ?
She is young, and easily moulded."

'^ Nay," was the reply; " I'd rather you
tried your hand. I shall not seek to make
her a proselyte to our cause."

Master Peasegood sat gazing at his friend
for a while, and then exclaimed —

"The news I o^ave you does not seem to
have much effect."

"What news?"

That thou art a papist emissary, and
come to purchase powder for a new plot."

Heaven grant that such a bloody and
atrocious crime be not again upon the way.
It makes me shudder to think that men
could have such ideas, and say that they are
in the cause of the Church."

Father Brisdone spoke excitedly, and his
pale face flushed as he rose and paced the
room. " Oh, brother, we live in bitter times
when men can think a good and gracious
Grot could smile down upon such crimes."

*^ Ah," said Master Peasegood, re-lighting
his little pipe, ^^you are a bad Catholic, and
I no longer wonder that thou art left here by
thy party."

Father Brisdone looked back on him, and
smiled.

^^ The captain has sailed," said Master
Peasegood.

'' Yes ; he asked me to keep a protecting
eye over our child."

'' He did, did he ? Then 1 have a counter
turn with him. Why did he not ask me to
play that part? "

Because he knew thee of old, and that
our child would be certain of thy protection''

"Ah!" said Master Peasegood, with a
sigh; 'that girl is a great strain upon my
mind— bless her ! "

'' Ay, bless her ! " said Father Brisdone,
fervently. Then, after a pause, " I may
have to flee one of these days, for persecutions
are sometimes very bitter against
such as I. If I do go suddenly, you will
remember all my words."

Remember them ! Yes. But where should
you go ? "

Throw myself upon the hands of Captain
Carr, and trust to his generosity."

'* Yes, if at home; but he has sailed."
There are the woods and rocky hills''
'' Yes' said Master Peasegood ! *^ and
plenty of blackberries, and hips and haws,
and cold night-dews, and damp ferns. Bah,
man, we can't live like hermits here in this
Christian land. This is not a place where a
man can be happy in a hair-shirt and a
scooped-out hole in the rock, with a handful
of dates and a cup of water. My word, it
would puzzle some of those early fathers to
exist on such terms down here. But there,
have no fear, there is not a man for miles
round who would not give either of us a
hiding-place and a regular meal if we were
in need."

'^ Brother Peasegood, you are a true
friend," said Father Brisdone; '^ and I shall
resign myself to thy advice, for I am weak,
and I own that I shrink from the thought of
martyrdom ; for life is, after all, so very
sweet."

*^ Of course it is, or it wouldn't be given
to us. Bah ! When you meet with a man
who talks much about the weariness and
wretchedness of the world, depend upon it
there is something wrong."

Father Brisdone bowed his head.

'' I'm afraid I have a good deal of the evil
one in me, brother," said Master Peasegood,
helping himself to more tobacco. ^^ See here,
I try this herb to see what it is like, so that
I may be able to follow out his Majesty's
wishes, and duly preach it down ; and hcfw
do I find myself ? Why, tied neck and heels,
and given over to the hands of the tempter."

^* Ah, yes," said Father Brisdone, relighting
his own pipe, '' it is a soothing and
seductive weed''

Then again, about you ? Sir Thomas
at the Moat twitted me again with our intimacy,
as not becoming the parson's Roehurst,
and I told him I was converting you fast."

An untruth, brother Peasegood.''

Yes ; but it slipped out unawares. Ah,
Brother Francis, I'm afraid that I resemble
the unjust steward, and am making friends
with such as thou against the days when
thy party has the ascendancy once more,
and we Protestants are of small account."

Father Brisdone shook his head sadly.

'^ Nay," he said, ^' the day is gone ; and, if
it were not, thou art not the man to stand
on the order of taking care of self. But was
not that a step ?"

They ceased speaking, for it was plainly
enough a step, and directly after the door was
unceremoniously opened and a figure stood
on the threshold.

'^ Gilbert Carr ! " cried Master Peasegood ;
'^ why I thought thee miles away."

^' And so I should be," was the reply;
^' but I could not go without first saying a
few words."

Master Peasegood rose from his chair, and
made way for his fresh visitor to take a seat ;

but Gil laid his hands upon the stout clerk's
shoulders, and gently pressed him back

'^ Sit still," he said; ** I have not a minute
to stay. I have come across from Purport,
and must be back at daybreak, or my vessel
will have to wait another tide."

*^ Have you a horse ? "

'^ No ; I walked," said Gil, smiling.

'^ Why, it is nearly thirty miles," said
Father Brisdone.

^^ Quite," was the reply. '^ Look here.
Master Peasegood, I can speak before Father
Brisdone, for he is a friend."

*' But first have bite and sup," cried Master
Peasegood, essaying to rise.

'^ I have both in my wallet here," said
Gil. ^^ Now, listen to me: I am uneasy
about matters at the house by the Pool."

^^ And thou would'st have me watch over
some one there ? " said Master Peasegood.

*^ Yes," was the reply.

^' Be easy in thy mind, then, lad, for it is

done. Not that I favour thee, or think well
of thy suit, mind ; but rely on my taking
care of the little treasure there."

^^ I am content, Master Peasegood," said
Gil, holding out his hand.

^^ But you did not walk across country
from Curtpool to tell me this ? " said Master
Peasegood.

^^ I did; and why not. Master Peasegood?
There, my mission is ended, so good night
to both."

Before either could reply he had passed
out into the darkness, and they heard his
steps die away in the distance.

^^ A true-hearted, brave man ! " said Father
Brisdone, fervently. ^' Heaven's blessing be
upon him ! "

'' Heaven's blessing be upon him, by all
means," said Master Peasegood drily; sand
I hope it will do him good."

Why do you speak so cynically of the
.young man ? "

Because I don't like him after all for
our child, and he shall never have her with
my consent."

Poor girl ! And yet she loves him."

^^ He's not good enough man for her,"
growled Master Peasegood.

No man that I know is'' replied Father
Brisdone. '^ But, there, we cannot dislike
him for his love for one so sweet and true.
Good night, brother ; I must be for home.
It grows late."

^' I'll see thee half-way back," cried Master
Peasegood ; and after a short walk with his
friend he returned to his cottage, and was
soon making the bed vibrate with his heavy
breathing, which often degenerated into a
snore. But he had not been sleeping many
minutes before there was a loud pattering at
the casement, one that was repeated again
and again.

** He gave them hailstones for rain," muttered
Master Peasegood, in his sleep.

Patter, patter, patter again at the casement,
when Master Peasegood started up,
and the bed gave forth a dismal groan.

Patter, patter, patter at the window once
more.

^^ There's some one ill," said the stout
clerk, and, rising hastily, while the bedstead
emitted a sound like a sigh of relief,
he threw on his old gown, went to the
window and threw it open.

'' Hallo ! " he cried.

'* Hallo, parson," came up out of the darkness
in a deep growl.

'' What is it thou, old son of Belial," said
Master Peasegood, sourly, for he had been
awakened from a pleasant sleep.

'* Ay, Wat Kilby it is."

'^ I thought thee with thy master, far at
sea — safe enough, for thou'lt be hanged some
day, Wat Kilby, and never drowned."

*'Thou'rt a false prophet," growled Wat
Kilby.

'^ Thought a villainous old unbeliever, worse
than a Jew ! " cried Master Peasegood,
angrily.

^'I wish all thy country flock were as
good as Jews, parson."

I wish they were," said Master Pease-good,
angrily. *rand now why art thou
here?

*^ We're at anchor. Skipper's a-shore."

^^ He was here an hour ago, man."

*eh? Was he then? I must get me
back. Here, hold down thy hand; I've
brought thee some tobacco. I know thought
converted, parson, and can smoke."

'^ I'll come down, if I can convert thee,
Wat Kilby."

*^ Convert me. Master Peasegood; why,
what's amiss with me ?''

*^ Amiss, thou wicked old reprobate ? Why
thought an open sinner, and never com'st to
church''

^' Eh, but I would if shouldst let me
smoke my pipe by the open door."

*^ Then you are repenting of your evil
ways."

Nay, I've nothing to repent of, but a
love or two."

And spiriting away poor Abel Churr."

^' Nay, parson, I never did ; I wish I had,"
growled Water

Then that's as bad."

"Nay, parson, don't preach; I ain't a bad
'un after all. I always tries, and gets along
pretty well for a time, but, just as I've got
as perfect as can be, down comes the devil
with a pretty girl, and then I'm done."

'^ Out upon thee, Wat Kilby, my cheeks
burn with shame."

Ay, it do make the cheeks burn, parson.
But it always was so, parson, and that's the
devil's way. He always did serve me so,
and you may preach at me and preach, and

preach, and preach, but unless you can
preach all the pretty women off the earth,
if you're right in what you say, I'm certain
to be burnt."

^* But you must resist the devil and he'll
flee, Wat Kilby."

^* Nay: not he, parson. He knows his man
too well. There, it's all no good. Reach
down thy hand — got it. That's well."

'' Thanks, Wat Kilby. Man, it is a goodly
offering of the precious weed."

^^ Thou and the king said it was devils
poison."

^'Ah, um, yes; but my ideas are being
modified, my man. And now what does this
mean ?"

'swell, you see, parson, it's all about a
woman I have come."

*ris this a time man to speak about a
wedding ?"

'^ Yes, parson; when you have to go by
orders"

VOL. II. O

'^ Well speak out quick, for the night is
chill."

I will, parson. It's like this : I love
pretty Mistress Janet at the Pool."

For a grandchild, Wat Kilby ?"

*' Nay, master ; for a wife. I wanted to get
speech of her, but could not get me near.
Tell her, and keep thy eye on her ae well,
that Wat Kilby can't forgot, and will come
back and wed her."

Well man, well ?"

'' And I ask thee, parson, not to wed her
to any other man."

But man, how can I help "

'' Why, forbid it all, and I'll battle down
to be a better man and come to church when
I be not at sea. Sometimes I'll come and
sit in the porch o' Sunday afternoons. And
now I must hasten to catch the skipper.
Tell her from me, parson, Wat Kilby will
come and make her an honest woman, and
be true ; and now good night."

'^ Here, stop, you vile old sinner !" cried
Master Peasegood, but he only heard old
Wat Kilby striding rapidly away, and after
listening for a few moments he closed the
lattice with a slam.

'' The place gets worketh more I preach,"
he cried, angrily. '* Master and man. A
nice charge, verily — but Wat and that Janet !
My preaching must be stronger, yet. That
wicked wench !"

Five minutes later Master Peasegood was
fast asleep, and the casement-frames vibrated
to his snore.

o2

CHAPTER XII.

HOW THE GAME WENT AGAINST MASTER COBBE.

A VERY different scene was enacting at the
Pool-house on that very evening. Sir Mark
had spent the day mostly out of doors,
and had sought out the founder, who, finding
that he made no further allusions to his
child, but turned the conversation to the
works, readily showed him the busy tasks
in progress, where, about a mile from the
house, men where digging ironstone from out
of a pit. Then on the way back he pointed
with pride to the deep hole in the face of a
precipitous mass of stone, where the shell
had torn for itself a place in which to explode,

and then rent out the rock in splintered
fragments, which lay about side by
side with the pieces of iron of which the
shell was composed.

'does that hole go in far?" said Sir
Mark, eyeing it curiously.

'' Goodness knows," was the reply. ^' Deep
enough. That shot would destroy part of an
enemy's stronghold, or drive in the side of a
ship. But come, and you shall see them get
ready a furnace for my next gun."

Sir Mark followed, and watched the process
as layers of ironstone were alternated
with charcoal from a mighty heap that lay
hard by.

A visit to one of the powder-sheds came
next, after Sir Mark had left outside his
sword, dagger, and spurs.

'rare you not too particular?" he said,
rather disdainfully.

Not a bit, " was the bluff reply.
Would'st have his Majesty's Ambassador

blown into fragments, like one of my shells ?
I am none too particular," he said, as he
saw his companion shudder. I have had so
many accidents here that you must allow me
to know what is best."

After this Sir Mark seemed disposed to
shirk the visit, but he made an effort, and
walked through the place more manfully,
looking with curious eyes at the dull black
grains, or masses of composition in an unfinished
state.

^^ How would his Majesty like a run
through here?" said the founder, with a
chuckle. ^^ Powder will always have an ill
savour in his nostrils."

It was with no little sense of relief that
Sir Mark found himself outside, close by the
shed where the great howitzer had been
placed, and at his solicitation the founder
readily consented to have the gun out once
more, and with boyish eagerness devoted
himself to test the powers of the piece and

its bursting shells, when loaded after Gil's
own fashion.

At last the founder and his guest had returned,
partaken of the evening meal, which
Mace dispensed with the calmness of one
whose heart was quite at rest; and finally
she had retired to find occasion to take
Janet to task for being giggling and whispering
in the shrubbery with one of Sir
Mark's gaily-dressed men, for by dint of
careful drying and smoothing, the traces of
the plunge into the mill race had been mg^de
to disappear.

snow, Master Cobbe," said Sir Mark,
'let us calmly and in friendly spirit talk
over our affairs again. Suppose you fill
your glass."

^'That I will," said the founder; ^' and
you do the same."

^* I'll drink with you and welcome," said
Sir Mark, filling his glass, nodding, and then

wetting his lips, while the founder took a
hearty draught.

^' That's better," he said. ^' And now, sir,
what is it to be — a good order for his Majesty's
troops?"

^^ Yes, and fortune for you Master Cobbe.
This order will be but the introduction to
many. Why should you not be ordnance-master
to his Majesty ? "

«« Why, indeed, my lad," said the founder,
composedly. ^'I should gain, of course, but
the King would be no loser."

'^ Then why not have it so, Master Cobbe.
Come, I appeal to you — I plead to you. Are
you blind to your daughter's advantages ?
I am not a moneyed man, but I offer position
and a title."

''If [ sell her to thee," 'said the founder,
looking through the wine in his glass.

'tush! Why call things by such hard
names? 'Tis no sale — I love her dearly,

and to help my cause I own that I do try to
press upon thee by means of the interest I
have at court."

*^ What should I make by your order, Sir
Mark ? " said the founder, musingly.

'how can I tell?" cried Sir Mark,
eagerly. ^' What do I know of the profits?
All I know is that I can give you an order
for guns and ammunition, to the value of
three thousand pounds, to be paid in hard
coin. You shall supply as many of those
great howitzers and shells as you can, and
then take on more men and make others, for
from what I have seen of the performance of
those guns you have made both name and
fortune."

The founder sat gazing through his wine
again, as if musing, and the visitor watched
the play of his features with anxiety.

^'Harkye, Master Cobbe," he whispered,
^' I offer marriage and a place at court for

your child. Of course I know that there has
been some love-talk between her and this
Carr, as they call him, but he has sailed
away, and what could be a better opportunity
for my suit ? "

But, suppose she loves this Gilbert Carr,
Sir Mark?"

Tush, man ; a girl's fancy ! She will
forget him in a week. The sight of a 
would drive him out of her head.
You but give me access to her and your aid,
and, trust me, she will be a willing bride.
There, it is settled, is it not ? "

Sir Mark Leslie," said the founder, sitting
back in his chair ; '* if you could offer
me ten times three thousand pounds in
orders I would say the same. Sir, I am a
bluff south-country yeoman, and I would
sooner become the meanest beggar that
crawls than sell my poor child as I would
chaffer away a gun. There, I'll listen to no

more. Stay, if you please; you are just as
welcome. But I'll hear no more from you
or any man upon this point''

He gazed frankly into his guest's eye as
Sir Mark's brow knit, and the young man
strove hard to keep down the annoyance
he felt at the rejection of his suit by this,
in his eyes, common man.

For some minutes neither spoke, and then
Sir Mark began in a low husky voice.

Master Cobbe, I have come to you offering
you friendship, and you reject it. -I
cannot be your enemy for your child's sake ;
but you compel me to bring force to bear."

Force, sir, what force ? " cried the
founder angrily. " Do you mean you'll
carry her away ? 'Fore Heaven I warn you
that the lives of you and your servants
would not be worth a snap of the fingers did
you try such a thing. There are more men
here in this neighbourhood than you think

for, ready and willing to fight for her at
word of mine."

No, Master Cobbe ; the force I bring to
bear is of another sort. Mind, you bring
me to this by your obstinate rejection of my
suit. I now tell you that Mace must and
shall be my wife, and that you will give her
to me."

sanded!"

"Yes'' said Sir Mark, "and soon. Listen:
I hold the power here to seize upon this
place in his Majesty's name; to arrest you
for high treason as the man who supplied
his Majesty's enemies, and as one who is
now in league with papist emissaries. Stop,
sir, hear me out. You are leagued with one
Father Brisdone, a notorious follower of
Spain; with a rough adventurer named Carr,
who is more pirate than trader. In fact,
you and yours are attainted, and at a word
from me ruin falls upon you all."

And you will do all this with two men
whom the very boys who work for me would
throw into the Pool ? "

I came in peace, with two men only,
Master Cobbe ; but a messenger would fetch
twenty, fifty, or a hundred good swordsmen
and harquebusiers to my side to seize your
person, raze the works to the ground,
and then — yes, then. Master Cobbe, your
daughter would become an easy prize''

^' What you say is all false !" cried the
founder, who sat aghast as he felt what a
web the man before him had contrived fo
spread around.

'false or true, I am no judge, Master
Cobbe. I am here to execute the King's
commands. The case is left in my hands to
act as I see fit. If you prove a good subject
of his Majesty, and supply him with the
ordnance, well. If you refuse, you stamp
yourself a rebel, and as one guilty of high
treason."

But I do not refuse, Sir Mark; I offer to
supply his Majesty."

'' You refuse the proposal of his servant."

Did his Majesty bid thee truck and bargain
with me, making my child the price at
which I should obtain this order?" said the
founder, curtly.

His Majesty bade me do what seemed
the best," said Sir Mark ; ''so what is it to
be, Master Cobbe — Peace or war ? "

War," cried the founder, angrily ; and
he brought his fist down heavily on the table.

'ras you will, Master Cobbe; but I warn
you of your folly. You lose heavily in
wealth and liberty, and you deprive your
child of her natural protector, leaving her
almost entirely at my mercy."

^' No," cried the founder, " not so. If by
your lies and trickery I am snatched from
her, there are two men who would take upon
themselves the part of guardian. Father
Brisdone would "

''Be in prison or a fugitive," said Sir
Mark, quietly.

'^ Then Master Peasegood would "

'^ Be suspended from his office for evil
dealing, and allowing himself to be won
over to the Papist cause."

'' Then I'd trust Gil Carr, and bid him
wed my child."

'^ Gilbert, otherwise Culverin, Carr's ship,
when it returned, would by my orders be
watched and seized, as a suspected vessel,
and its captain and crew imprisoned to await
their trial."

'^ Then Sir Thomas Beckley, justice and
just man, with all his faults, would protect
my daughter."

^^ Sir Thomas Beckley might be called
upon to seize the person of Mistress Mace
Cobbe, for divers mal practices, held in
common with a woman here known as
Mother Goodhugh, a notorious witch. His
Majesty has determined to put down and

root out of his kingdom all those vile
traffickers with the works of darkness, and
has placed great power in the hands of the
magistrates of this realm."

^' What!" cried the founder, half in anger,
half laughing. '' My child a witch ! "

^^ I say not so. Master Cobbe; I only
speak of the common report. Both thy
daughter and her maid have been regular
visitors to this notorious woman, and by this
they have exposed themselves to great risk ;
for to be attainted now of witchcraft, even
of holding communion with the powers of
darkness, may mean the stake."

^^ Curse thy quibbling, glib, plot weaving
ways?" cried the founder. ^^ Failing those
I have named there is not a man, woman, or
boy in Roehurst who would not raise a hand
for the white moth."

^' Yes," said Sir Mark, quickly; ^^ that is
it. Even that tells against her. She is
known commonly as the White Moth of

Roehurst ; and there are those who whisper
that she is a witch."

*^ Sir Mark Leslie!" cried the founder, who
was white with anger, *^ I will not quarrel
with thee again. I forgot myself once
towards my guest ; I hope to control myself
now, but you try me sore''

^'It grieves me, Master Cobbe, and, though
I speak this, it is not as an enemy but as a
friend. I merely place my position before
you, and say is it not better to avoid all
this trouble, when instead the way is open
to wealth and honour, and a peaceful old
age?" .

^' Who and what are you?" cried the
founder, passionately; *' and why do you
come to disturb my peaceful home ? "

'^ I am his Majesty's servant, Master
Cobbe. I came here at his command to investigate
certain mal practices alleged against
thee. I found them to be true, but I found
here also a greater king than his Majesty

VOL. II. P

James the First. I found here that all-powerful
monarch — Love, and, vanquished
by him, I suffered thy sword ; I made
reports that softened thy case ; I . returned
from my mission with so goodly an account
that the King gave me leave to offer thee
honour and wealth if, in place of being of
doubtful allegiance, thou becomes his faithful
liege subject, and work for him as you
have been accused of working for others.
There, Master Cobbe, it is late, and thou art
angry. Think over it all ; sleep on it ; take
time to consider. I am one who can wait;
for, believe me, I would rather see thee
honoured than know that a lingering imprisonment
was sapping thy vital forces and
bringing thee low. Good night, Master
Cobbe, good night."

Sir Mark held out his hand, but it was not
noticed; the founder sitting back in his stiff
old-fashioned chair, and going over the
words of his guest, who, with a peculiar

smile, glanced at him mockingly, and slowly
ascended to his chamber, leaving his host
to sit thinking hour after hour, and at last
to stumble off heavily to bed with the feeling
upon him that he had been playing at
some game with heavy stakes, and that the
luck had been all upon the other side.

i»2

Chapter XIII.

HOW MISTRESS ANNE WAS UNQUIET, AND HOW
THE FOUNDER CAME TO TERMS.

The coming back of Sir Mark had the effect
of driving Mace to her room, where she
stayed as much as possible. Gil need have
had no jealous fears, could he have read
her heart, for her every thought was of
him. Seated at her window, looking over
the Pool, her eyes might be gazing at some
azure kingfisher darting across the shallows,
or seated on some twig, ready to plunge
down and emerge from the water with the
drops falling like glistening pearls from its
sides, as it bore away a tiny silvery fish ; or
her pensive look be fixed upon the heron, so

grey and lank of mien, standing motionless,
deep in the water, amidst the varied
aquatic growth, where it seemed at times to
launch its long beak, like some javelin, at a
luckless fish, to stab or seize it for its prey ;
or at even, when the soft wreaths of mist came
floating over the Pool, she watched the flight
of the owl as it uttered its peculiar cry, and
swept by so softly that it passed as noiselessly
as a ghost, while the white moths flitted
and danced amidst the roses round her casement
by night, as the golden flies and gauzy-winged
dragons darted and played about
in the sun. By soft balmy day, or cool
delicious dreamy night. Mace sat at her
window, watching and thinking, but it was
always of the white sails of a ship, ever
gliding farther and farther away.

These thoughts formed her bright dreams,
to which she turned when fancies about Sir
Mark became obtrusive ; for the days glided
on, and he stayed, growing each hour more

courtly and respectful to her. While he was
bright and full of compliments she could
fence with him, and turn away the points of
his speeches, but now that he had become
grave and earnest she was full of fears.

A greater cause for fear though was the
conduct of her father, who seemed to be
giving way to their guest, though at times
he broke out with his old independent ways,
and appeared to be setting him at defiance.

Mace was puzzled, for she could not comprehend
her father's manner. He had never
been more tender and affectionate, but there
was something behind which troubled her.

Sir Mark left at last, to her great relief,
and for the next fortnight she was as joyous
as a bird, singing about the house, and in
the highest of spirits, when, to her horror,
the guest returned, accompanied by a dozen
well-armed followers, who proved to be
artizans, and began work the very next
morning, assisting the founder's staff.

Then by degrees it leaked out that Sir
Mark had brought a great order from the
King for guns and their ammunition — an
order that must lead to wealth for the
founder, who was busy almost night and
day.

At the end of another week half-a-score
more men arrived, to be distributed through
the village, lodging with different workmen,
whom they assisted during the day.

They were nominally in the founder's
service, and he paid them their weekly
wage, but they looked to Sir Mark for
guidance in all else saving the work at the
foundry, and to Master Cobbe came plenty
of complaints.

For Roehurst was no longer what it had
been. Sir Mark's followers brought with
them London ways, and an amount of freedom
which the founder's men had on more
than one occasion to resent ; though certain
maidens, notably Janet, at the Pool-house,

and Polly, the handmaid of Mistress Anne,
thought that the place had never been so
gay and bright before

And all the time the furnaces roared and
made liquid the iron from the hills which
had grown the wood coal that supplied the
heat, while careful moulds were made by the
founder himself, who watched the casting of
every piece.

Then powder was made in large quantities,
and carefully stowed away in Master
Cobbe's magazine, a cool, deep, stone cavern,
half natural, half cut in the soft sandrock.

From being generally calm and peaceful,
the place now grew to be like a busy hive.
Nearly every day Mace shuddered as the
casements rattled with the explosion of some
great piece which was being tested, and
in this part of the business Sir Mark took
great interest himself. Butts were made,
and targets set up for practice, and one by
one great black howitzers were turned out,

considered perfect, and then placed aside
ready for sending to London, or to one of
the shipping-ports upon the coast.

Every now and then came a messenger
from some one high in authority in the great
city, and the despatch he bore was duly
perused and replied to by Sir Mark; who
passed the greater part of his time at the
foundry, but paid occasional visits to the
Moat, where he was always most courteously
received. There were cold grave looks for
the young knight at the Pool-house, but
always smiles and side-long glances at the
Moat ; but somehow the cold, grave looks
only inflamed his passion, while the sight of
Mistress Anne begat dislike.

But she knew well enough how to play
her part, and though after Sir Mark's departure
Polly had her ears well boxed for
the first remark she made — Dame Beckley
fled to her garden of simples to seek for
peace, as if it were some cunning plant — and

Sir Thomas blew out his cheeks, opened his
eyes, and then went into his sanctum to
study the King's work on witchcraft — the
tremendous storms that arose never spread
outside the precincts of the Moat, and Sir
Mark believed the lady to be simplicity and
gentleness itself.

These visits of Sir Mark brought wealth
to one inhabitant of Roehurst, to wit, Mother
Goodhugh, who always received a visit from
Anne Beckley directly after the visitor had
left ; when the old woman, who had been
cunning enough to learn all the news of the
place, was ready enough in pointing out how
matters were working for her good.

'^ Don't be afraid, dearie," she said one
day, after going through a good deal of
mummery. '^ That spell seemed to point
to the fact that Captain Gil was to be thy
lord, but his terrible crime has changed all
that, and Sir Mark will marry thee."

•^ But he is always there! " cried Anne.

Well, child, is it not to be near to thee ?
Don't you fear. Ask thy maiden Polly to
question Janet Burger, and she will learn
that Mace and Sir Mark hardly meet, and
when they do she be as cold as so much ice''
'' Yes," said Anne; '^ that is true enough."
*^ And how did you know, dearie ? "
'' I bade Polly question Janet."
'^ Then you see how right I am, my child.
Oh, yes ; it will all work right. Trust me,
the gallant youth be only down here that he
may be near to thee."

A few days later Anne Beckley arrived at
the cottage with flaming eyes.

Mother Goodhugh," she cried, '^ you
failed before, but now you must try, and try
well, to work some spell on that creature at
the Pool."

'' And why, child ? "

^' Because I hear it said that Sir Mark is
going to marry her."

Tchch ! nonsense ! What put that silly
notion in thine head ? "

It is true. It came from Janet."

Oh, pay no heed to her, my dearie.
Only trust to me and all will come right in
the end."

'* But, mother," began Anne, impatiently.

Nay, nay, child, all you have to do is to
wait and see. I promise thee again that thy
gallant shall never wed Jeremiah Cobbe's
child ; and it will be well for her if she does
not perish at the stake."

Anne Beckley looked curiously at the old
woman, who met her eyes with a malicious
leer.

*' Ay, ay," she said, laughing ; '^ you're
thinking some one else might perish there,
but we keep our own secrets, child, and we
shall not denounce one another. Besides, our
little spells are only innocent love affairs,
and we keep our own counsel, dearie, only

too well. Ah, I shall be glad to see thee
happily wedded to the man of thy choice,
and then the present you make me will keep
me to the end of my days."

It was with a strange sense of uneasiness
that the two women parted ; Anne biting
one of her fingers as she told herself that she
was an idiot to listen to the drivelling of
that old woman, and yet feeling a curious
superstitious dread of her, and belief that
she could exercise some influence on her
destiny.

Let her mind, though," she muttered :
let her be careful how she behaves to me.
I could denounce her as a witch, only she is
very dangerous ; but what did she mean by
saying we and one another She dare not
say I join with her."

On the other side Mother Goodhugh
watched her out of sight, and then entered
her cottage, shaking her fist threateningly

in the direction Anne had taken, and a laugh
of no very pleasant kind escaped her lips.

''- There are other philtres besides ,
my dear' she said ; '' and if she
thinks that she will crush me she will make
a great mistake."

Mother Goodhugh might laugh the words
of Janet to scorn, but that astute maiden had
eyes and ears always on the qui vive for
fresh news. She gave a great deal of her
attention to one or another of Sir Mark's
followers, but all the same there was a
willing smile for Sir Mark himself when he
condescended to notice her, which was not
seldom ; and in spite of the freedom of her
own temperament, and the liberality with
which she would bestow a favour upon first
one and then another, she was jealous enough
in disposition to angrily resent Sir Mark's
attentions to her mistress. Hence it was
that she was often on the watch, and always

on the listen, with the result that by degrees
she saw the founder after a hard fight gradually
give way to the pressure brought to
bear.

For a long time Mace could not believe
it, but by degrees her eyes became opened
to the fact that Sir Mark was daily getting
more influence over her father.

Naturally avaricious, the founder could
not withstand the temptations thrown in his
way by his guest, who was diplomatic
enough to be content with a little advance
at a time.

The founder held out for a while, and told
himself that he would not submit to this
upstart from court; but, as he went over
again and again the position in which he
stood, he could not help seeing how troublous
might be the condition into which he could
be brought by an enemy.

At first he did not scruple to call his
visitor an enemy, and a bitter enemy, but by

degrees the thoughts of gaining thousands,
of occupying the position of first ordnance-founder
to the King, softened him, and the
effect of Sir Mark's words was shown in his
saying to himself that it was after all but a
fair thing for a man in love to try all he
could to win the object of his choice.

It was the entry of the enemy into the
outer works of the founder's fortress, and
as Sir Mark quietly went on sapping and
mining so did Jeremiah Cobbe give way.

'' I want to do the best I can for my
child," he said to himself, one evening, ashe
stood watching the great wheel go round.
She must not listen to Gil Carr, for that
would be destroying her young life, even if
he should prove to be innocent. No, that
would never do, and she is getting weaned
from him. He's a fine fellow, but not good
enough to be my darling's mate."

Then over his pipe at night he sat and
considered, after Sir Mark had left him, their

converse for the evening having probably
been of the merits of iron or brass pieces, for
the guest was cunning enough to see that
with patience the besieged would fall. How
would it be if he did give way ? This Sir
Mark was haughty, and over-bearing, and
proud, but he was a gentleman, high in
favour at court. He was poor certainly, but
he could give his wife a great position.

And he was honest over it," said the
founder, refilling his pipe; ^^ I like him for
that. He said he had no money. Humph,
perhaps he'd like to get hold of mine ! Welland
if he did he'd put me in the way of
making more. First ordnance-founder to his
Majesty King James !

'' No — no — no ! " he cried, rising to go to
bed, '^ I'll not give way. It would be like
selling her, and I love her too well for
that."

It was clever, the way in which Sir Mark
flattered the founder's vanity. There might

VOL. II. Q

have been no Mace in the world, only that
he was courteous and reverent to her in the
extreme when they met at meals, for he
never mentioned her name, but followed the
founder like a shadow, inquiring into the
toughness of this iron and that, and delighting
his dupe by laying aside his showy
doublet to take part in the trial of some
piece, to come away as besmirched with
powder as Gil himself.

^' There's stuff in the fellow'* said the
founder; sand I blame him for what is, after
all, only his education."

The fortress was beginning to give way.

'* Courts have their peculiarities, and he,
fresh from ordering and commanding, thought
he could do as he liked with me. It was
fine, too, the way he whipped out his sword
when I damned the King."

The founder laughed heartily, and wiped
the tears out of his eyes, for he was again
sitting alone before retiring for the night.

** Well, it was brave and true of him. A
man who would risk his life like that for the
honour of his master must be a noble gentleman
at heart, and would make a good husband."


He shook his head at that, and once more
went to bed.

The next night he was sitting alone again,
indulging in his evening pipe.

^' Poor little darling, it would bring some
tears in her eyes if I did consent, and give
her to him as his wife. Give ; yes, give !
I would not sell her ; but, after all, what a
position for her ! I think I should like it ;
and, after all, I am but mortal. Why should
I not wear velvet and a gold chain, and
strut about as Sir Jeremiah Cobbe, Master
of the King's Ordnance ? "

He refilled his glass and pipe and smiled
to himself, for the stones were getting very
loose, and the walls of the outworks were
tottering to their fall.

Q 2

'^ My darling, too, my lady — Dame Mace
Leslie. Hang the honours for myself ! I'd
give something, though, to see my little
maiden in her gay stomacher and cardinal,
with jewel-studded coif, and lace ruff, go
rustling into court, all bloom with her youth
and beauty, the envy of everybody in the
place."

He sat and smoked as he pictured the
scene.

'^ God bless her!" he cried; '* there
wouldn't be one there who was her equal.
My words how they'd all gird as they feasted
their eyes on the daughter of Jeremiah
Cobbe!

'^ Pah ! What idiots my old people were !
Jeremiah ! What a name for a stout-hearted
Englishman! I think we did better in calling
our darling Mace. I don't know,
though," he muttered; ^^it don't seem to go
well with Dame.

'' Humph! I wonder what her poor mother

would say, whether she would hold out as I
have done."

He sat on thinking till long past midnight,
with the sapping and mining of Sir.
Mark insidiously doing its work, though the
founder heeded it not.

^^ Curse the money," he said ; ^' I care nota
jot for that, but am I doing right in standing
like this in my darling's light? Suppose
I said yea to Sir Mark's proposal, and let
him become her suitor? What then ?"

He sat and smoked out his pipe to the
very ash; and then thought on as he sucked
at the empty bowl : —

'^A}^, what then?"

Jeremiah Cobbe sat there the long night
through, and at early dawn only went up to
his chamber, where, after a refreshing wash,
he sat and thought again before going down,
as the workers came from the various cottages
to their daily toil.

As he stood by one of the windows gazing

out he saw his child in the garden culling
flowers, and Sir Mark watching her, but he
did not follow her, only went away with
bent head, and stood leaning over the breech
of a gun.

The founder stayed thinking again for a
little while, and then, drawing a long breath,
he crossed the intervening space, clapped
the young man on the shoulder, and held
out his hand,

^^ Give me your word as a gentleman. Sir
Mark, that your suit shall be in all kindliness
and love, — that you will use no undue
pressure, but wait patiently for my consent,
and — you understand ? ''

'^ I promise," said Sir Mark, earnestly, ashe
laid his hand in that of the founder,
fighting hard the while to keep down a
triumphant look.

Hand clasped hand, and, as if moved by
the same influence, the two parties to the
unholy bargain glanced towards the house,

at whose door stood Mace, gazing at them
with labouring, unquiet breast, for a greater
trouble than that of her father's warlike
weapons now assailed her heart.

CHAPTER XIV.

HOW SIR MARK PUT ON THE FIRST CHAIN.

The founder was full of repentance, and felt
that evening that he dared not meet his
child's clear, searching gaze.

''He's too much for me' he muttered.
"He's managed to get over me when I've had
more ale than's good for me, and when I've
brought out the sherry sack. It's prime
stuff, that dry, strong sherry, but it makes a
man too easy, and he gives away more than
he would when it's not in him. I'll be more
careful. I won't take so much ; and yet I
don't know — it's very pleasant."

He had gradually worked himself round
to the belief that he was acting for the best,

and then came the reaction, and he felt that
he had sold his child for the sake of gain.

Nothing was said about his promises to
Sir Mark, for, though he had gone into the
house soon after with the express determination
of speaking out frankly and imperatively
his intentions, he shrank from the untoward
task.

^^ I'll take her down the garden, and have
a quiet talk in the morning'' he said ; and
when the morning came he put it off till eve,
plunging heart and soul into the busy toil
amongst his people, who, like some little
colony, looked up to him as their patriarch
and the supplier of their daily food.

^' The lads are pleased enough with this
girt job, master," said Tom Croftly, wiping
the grime and sweat from his forehead, as
they stood by one of the roaring furnaces ;
and the founder came away smiling, but
only for his smile to be chased away as he
saw Mother Goodhugh going along the track,

to stop and shake her stick in his direction
as she seemed to be cursing him.

^^ I never minded her and her curses
before," he muttered; '* but now they seem
to worry me like. I haven't done right —
I haven't done right; but I've given my
word — I've given my word''

He hurriedly made for another worked,
glancing unquietly at the old woman as she
trudged along, turning from time to time to
look in his direction.

Curse that old harridan ! " he muttered ;
and then he stood thinking, perhaps for the
first time in his life, that now he had, as it
were, been unfaithful to his trust. Mother
Goodhugh's evil wishes against his house
might have some effect.

*' I don't care," he said ; ^* it's for the
best ; " but as he said the words the remembrance
of Gil Carr rose up before him, as if
with reproach.

'^ He should never have had her," he muttered.

'^ It was impossible. The death of
that poor fellow, Churr, clings to him, say
what one may. He may not have done the
deed, but it was by his orders, and he is
responsible for the sin."

He bit his lips angrily even as these
thoughts came to his mind, for they gave
h^'m no relief, and it seemed cowardly to
harbour them in Gil's absence, just by way
of excuse for his present acts.

Then, too, go where he would, work
hard as he might, his child's calm, reproachful
gaze seemed to be ever before him.

She knows it already ; I'm sure she
knows it,^' he said to himself; and at last,
harassed by his upbraiding thoughts, he
became furious and irritable to a degree.

The eve had passed, and the next morning,
and the night, but still the founder did
not speak. He told himself that he had but
to say — ^' My child, Sir Mark is your future
husband; " but he could not say those words?

and at times he grew fiercely angry at his
cowardice, for as the days glided by the
task grew harder and harder, and he literally
dared not speak.

He had one satisfaction, though, and that
made somewhat smoother the thorny way
through which he was travelling, Sir Mark
was gentleness itself towards Mace. He
never spoke one word that was not full
of tender consideration towards her. His
very looks, though full of admiration, were
softened by respect ; but she could read in
them an air of proprietorship ; and to her
mind they seemed to say that he knew he
was safe to win her if he only waited his
time.

Those were not happy days at the Pool-house,
and Mace, with many a bitter tear,
wished herself back in the pleasant peaceful
times of the past. The coming of Sir Mark's
men had wrought a complete change in the
place ; there were quarrels of frequent occurrence

on the score of gallantries, real or suspected,
with husbands and brothers, rumours
of which came to the young girls ears; and,
whenever she encountered Mother Good-hugh,
the old woman had a malignant laugh
for her, and a shaking finger that seemed to
portend evil. Then, in her despondent state
of mind, Janet became a constant source of
trouble to her. She scolded, threatened to
send her away, and even tried to keep her
shut up in the house ; but she might as well
have tried to wrap up so much quicksilver
in muslin as to keep back the wilful girl, for
in return for bits of news and gossip carried
to Mother Goodhugh, the old woman furnished
Janet with philtres that were to win
her the hearts of any of the gay strangers
she wished to enthral.

^ Oh, Janet, Janet, where is your modesty ? "
cried her mistress. ^' Who was that man
you talked with? Is it not the same I
warned you about last night?"

^* No— o, mistress," said Janet.

'* How can you be so shameless! Night
after night I have to blame you for your
wilful ways."

^^ Yes, mistress," sobbed Janet; ^^ Pm a
wicked, wicked girl, but men are so nice."

For shame ! Why not heed me when I
speak to you for your good ? "

I do, mistress," sobbed Janet; '' but
these men they plague me so. I try, oh, so
very hard, to be good, and I will be a better
girl. I want to be good, and something
always keeps trying to make me bad ; but I
will be better now."

But Janet grew worse, in spite of her promises
of amendment. She wept and sobbed,
and avowed that she was the wickedest girl
under the sun, kissed her upbraiding mistress's
hands with the full intent of leading
a more modest life, and the next hour her
vows were all forgotten, and she was listening
to the soft whispers of some one or other

of the soldierly men who hung about the
place.

So Mace's days were not peaceful now,
and matters at last became so unbearable as
the time glided on that she determined to
speak to her father, and ask him to let her
leave home until his great work that troubled
her so was done, and the unwelcome visitors
were gone.

For weeks she went about with the words
on her lips, longing to say them, but she
dared not on account of the shock she knew
it would give her father, while he, restless
and unquiet in her presence, kept back what
he had to say.

It was Sir Mark who brought father and
daughter to an explanation.

There had been a week of something like
relief, for the visitor had been to London on
business connected with the order, and on his
return he had startled Mace by a change in
his mien in speaking to her as he had not

spoken since his avowal of his love that
evening by the meadow-gate.

It was evening, and Mace was seated alone
in the big window, working, and glancing out
from time to time at the pleasant garden,
thinking that it did not look so bright and
cheery as of old; when Sir Mark entered,
and crossing the room stood close by her,
gazing gently down with his hands clasped
behind.

She looked up at him in a timid way, and
then shrank back in her chair. Her first
impulse was to run from the room, but she
scouted the idea as one only fit for some weak
girl; and, fighting hard to recover herself, she
said the first words that came to her lips,
angry with herself the next moment with
what she had spoken.

^^ Mistress Anne Beckley was here with
my lady this afternoon."

'^ Indeed ! " he said, huskily, as he still
gazed down.

"Mistress Anne asked after your health,
and bade me say that they missed you very
much."

^' And you, what did you say ? " he asked,
softly.

'' I said you were busy with my father,
watching over the trial of great pieces of
ordnance and the making of powder,"
replied Mace, who was fast recovering her
calmness.

Why did you not tell her I could not
tear myself from the home where my every
thought was centred ; that I could not live
away from her who was to be my wife?
See, Mace, dearest, I brought you this from
town. It is to grace your sweet, whitethroat.
There, I thought the pearls were
beautiful, but they look poor and mean,
after all."

Mace's hands nervously clasped Sir Mark's
wrists as, with a quick movement, he brought
them from behind him, and throwing a hand-vol.

II. B

some string of pearls round her neck he
clasped it there.

If her suitor's wrists had burned her, she
could not have snatched her hands away
more quickly as she shrank back once more
into her seat, gazing at him with so strange
a look that the words he was about to utter
failed on his lips, and he stood for a while
gazing down at her in silence.

'^ You are surprised," he said at last,
smiling. '^ Well, they were given clumsily,
but you teach me to be humble and reverent
before you, Mace. I grow speechless in your
presence, as with a kind of humble adoration,
as I look forward to the day when you will
be my wife."

Your — wife ! " she faltered.

Yes," he cried, catching her by the hands
to cover them with kisses, ^^ my wife, whom
I shall worship, and take away from this
wild, secluded spot to shine like some jewel
in King James's court."

He dropped her hand, for he heard the
founder's voice without, and left her sitting
back — crouched, as it were, in her chair,
cold and nerveless.

She had expected this ; she had looked
hourly for its coming ; but now that it had
come it was like some fearful shock.

^^Gil," she whispered, at last. "Gil," as
she felt like a bird in a fowler's net, ^^ why
are you not here ? '\

His name seemed to give her back her
strength, and, starting up, she caught sight
of her white face in the glass. Then her
eyes fell upon the glistening ornament around
her neck, and, feeling that it was like a chain
that Sir Mark had placed there to secure her
to him, she tore at it hastily, the string
snapped, and the great lustrous pearls flew
with a pattering noise about the floor as
she hurried from the room, ran up to her
chamber, and threw herself sobbing upon
her knees.

K 2

CHAPTER XV.

HOW MACE OBJECTED TO HER BARGAIN.

'^ Am I a weak child ?" cried Mace at last,
as she sprang up and wiped away her tears.
'' I will not sit still, and be sold like this. I
cannot be forced to wed a man I hate, and
I will not listen to his words.

•^ When will Gril come back ?" she cried ;
and sitting down she tried to reckon up the
number of weeks since he sailed, but her
head was in a whirl ; and even as she tried
to think her hands burned, and she held
them from her as if they had been polluted
by the kisses they had received.

Then, with a feeling of horror, she thought
of the possibility of Gil having witnessed

that scene— the clasping on of the necklace,
the touch of the donor's hands, and the tears
once more rushed to her eyes as she writhed
at her helpless position.

'^ I will go away to Cousin Ellice," she
said ; '^ I will go at once. Father cannot
know of Sir Mark's behaviour. I cannot, I
will not, believe it," she cried, passionately.
*' I would not marry Gil without his consent,
but I cannot listen to this man.

^' Why, one would think I was some weak
girl such as we read of in the old ballad
stories !" she cried, with a laugh that was
more like a hysterical cry, and, hastily
washing away the traces of her tears, she
determined to make a bold effort to show
Sir Mark that his case was hopeless, and
descended to the parlour to gather up and
restore the pearls.

All thought of the jewels, though, was
chased away by the sight of her father just
seating himself for a rest and a smoke ; and,

smoothing her face, she went up to him, and
stood by his side with her hands resting
upon his shoulder.

^' Are you tired, dear ?" she said, passing
her cool hand across his brow.

<« Very, child," he replied, drawing her to
him, so that she was seated upon his knee,
with her head leaning against his cheek.

^^ You work so hard now," she continued.
'^ This great order makes you so busy."

^^Yes," he said, laughing; ^^ but it is for
honour and wealth, child. It is a great
thing, and Sir Mark as good as promises
that I shall be Master of Ordnance to the
King."

'rare Sir Mark's promises all to be believed
?" said Mace, quietly.

'^ To be sure ! Yes, of course, child. He
is a noble gentleman, of goodly birth, and
when thou art his wife ''

He stopped short, for the words he had
been trying to say had suddenly slipped

from his lips, and he was startled by the
manner in which his child leaped from his
side, to stand staring down at him with
flashing eyes.

'' What is it ?'' he cried, in a clumsy, faltering
manner.

*^ What was that you said, father ?"

^'I said when thou art Sir Mark's wife,
and he takes thee to court."

*^ I can never be Sir Mark Leslie's wife."

^^Tut! nonsense," cried the founder,
working himself up into a passion ; ^' why
do you talk such rubbish as this ? What do
you know of wedlock ? Sir Mark has asked
for thy hand in honourable marriage. It is
a great honour ; and thou wilt be wed and
praised at court, and become a great body.
What could I wish better for my child ? "

*^ Oh, father, what do you mean?" she
cried, with his own angry spirit rising up
within her.

^^ Mean?" he cried, rousing himself now.

to finish the task that he had fought in vain
for so long to begin. ^'I mean that Sir
Mark is to be thy husband. He brings thee
honour and me wealth. It is a great thing,
child. Living here as thou hast, such a position
as that thou wilt occupy is a thing
almost undreamed of. Why, my darling,"
he said, trying to smile, '^ thou wilt ride in
thy grand carriage, and have lackeys to
follow thee, and be admired of all the court.
Zounds ! but I shall be proud indeed !"

*^ Father," cried Mace, piteously, ^^ you do
not mean all this !"

^^Butl do!" he cried. ^^ There, go to,
silly child ; it seems a trouble, but it will
be all a joy. There, there : we need talk
of it no more, for perhaps it will not be for
months. I have given Sir Mark my promise,
and thou wilt be his wife*'

Mace stood gazing at him piteously. Then
throwing her arms round his neck she burst
into a fit of sobbing.

'*No, no, dear father!" she cried, *^I
cannot, I cannot wed him. It would break
my heart."

'stuff!" he cried, caressing her; 'what
dost thou know of breaking hearts and such
silly, girlish fancies ? He brings thee jewels,
and thou wilt have gay brocades. Why, my
sweet pet, thou wilt drive Anne Beckley
mad with envy. Mark me, she meant towed
Sir Mark herself."

"Father, dear," said Mace, kissing him,
and speaking in a low, appealing voice, " it
is not like you to speak to your little girl
like this. Do I care to flaunt in gay clothes
to try and best Anne Beckley ? Have I
any such ideas as these ? "

No, no, child ; may be not," he said,
stroking her hair; "but — but — I'd like to
see thee a grand dame."

"Would it make you happier, dear?" she
replied, kissing him fondly as she nestled to
his breast.

*swell, well, yes, of course," he said
hastily.

'' Nay, nay, father, dear, you would never,
never be happy again if you sold me to that
man."

'^ Sold !'' he cried furiously, for that truthful
word stung him to his heart. '^ How
dare you say that, ungrateful girl that thou
art ? How dare you ? "

^' Because it is true," cried Mace, drawing
back from him to stand, white and angry,
at bay. '^ Father, you are trying to sell me
to this man !"

^^ It is a lie— a damned lie!" he cried
furiously. ^^ Mace, thou hast been listening
to that villain — that scoundrel — that murderer
— Gil Carr, again."

^^ It is no lie, father," she retorted, ^^ and
Gil is no murderer— no villain — no scoundrel,
but an honourable gentleman, as you know."

^^ I know thou hast been carrying on with
him again," cried the founder. 'curse him!"

he roared, bringing his hand down heavily
upon the table, so that the glasses and pipes
leaped again.

^' I have not," cried Mace, angrily '' You
said I should not, and I obeyed you, as I
always have ; but," she added proudly, '' I
told Gil I would never be the wife of another
man, and I never will."

^^ Have a care, madam, have a care!"
cried the founder, who was beside himself
with passion. '^ I am a true man, but an
obstinate one. I said thou should'st not wed
that wild buccaneering adventurer, and* Fll
keep my word."

'^ Father'' cried Mace, as hotly, ^' I am
thy daughter, and I can be obstinate too. I
can keep my word. I will not wed Gil, if
you forbid it ; but I will wed no other man."

"' Curse the day he ever entered my house,
and curse the day he ever enters it again ! I
have given Sir Mark Leslie my word that
thou shalt be his wife, and that word I'll

keep. Now I have said it, and thou knowest
what to expect. IVe indulged and spoiled
thee, till, like an ingrate, thou flies in my
face, and forgotten all thy duty. Now go
and learn what duty to a husband is."

'^ No, no, no !" cried Mace, casting off her
angry fit, and flinging her arms round her
father's neck. forgive me, dear, I said
words to you I repent of now."

'' Then thou wilt meet him as thou
shouldest, child ? "

'' No, no, father, I cannot ! " she cried,
with a shudder ; " I detest — I despise him.
I do not wish to marry. Let us go back to
our old happy days, dear — as we were before
this man came to trouble us. Why do you
wish to send your little girl away ? "

The founder was moved, and his arm involuntarily
embraced the slight form, and
drew it to his breast, while his brow grew
rugged with emotion. At that moment he
felt as if he would gladly have gone back to

the calm old days of peace, and in his heart
of hearts he wished that there was no such
thing as love, or marrying and giving in
marriage, on the earth.

'' There, there," he said softly, as he
caressed and petted her as he would have
done when she was a child. ^^ There, little
one, I want to do what is best for thee, to
make thee happy."

Let us stay as we are, then, father
dear," she said, as she responded to his
caresses.

No, no, child, it cannot be," he said.
^' I have given my word to Sir Mark, and
he is to be thy husband, and that right
soon."

'' No, no, father !" she cried ; '^ you do not
you cannot mean it."
" I do mean it, and it must be," he said
firmly, as he rose, and she stepped back
now, and stood gazing at him as, hastily
pouring out and swallowing a glass of strong

waters, he walked out of the room, leaving
Mace standing with hands clasped before
her, gazing at vacancy, as she realised her
terrible position, and asked herself what she
should do.

That night she crept up to her room ina
dazed, stunned fashion, and sat gazing out
of her window, watching the stars rise
slowly from over the sea, as she wondered
whether Gil would come back and save her
from the fate that threatened, where he was
now, and whether she should ever look
again with beating heart at their innocent
little signal in the grassy bank — the four
glow-worms' lights.

Where was he now? she asked herself.
Was he thinking of her as his ship sailed
over the blue Mediterranean ? Perhaps so ;
but would the time come when it would be a
sin for her to think of him other than as a
friend ?

With a shudder she told herself that

such a time could never be, for she would
sooner take the boat some night and let it
drift far out over the deepest part of the
Pool, and there step over into the cold,
black waters in search of the rest that she
could not hope for here.

And as she thought all this in a weary,
despairing way, the founder sat in his own
room, angry, troubled, and full of pity for his
child ; but all the same relieved of a heavy
load, as he told himself that she knew now
what was to be, and that she would soon
grow happy and content. «

CHAPTER XVI.

HOW SIR MARK KNOCKED AWAY TWO PROPS.

A WEEK, a fortnight, a month glided by, as
time will gallop on, when some unwished-for
season is ahead. Matters at the Moat were
as of old. Sir Thomas dispensed justice.
Dame Beckley prepared simples, and Mistress
Anne purchased love philtres, vowing
each time that this was the last, but still, in
spite of her better judgment, keeping on, for
Gil was away, and might never come back,
while Sir Mark was present and might be
won.

He came sometimes to the Moat, and was
very pleasant and courtly. He condescended

to flirt with her a little, and filled her with
hope that her vanity fed, as it grew dim on
his departure. She was gentleness and innocence
itself when he was present, but her
eyes flashed when he left ; and there was that
in her looks which seemed to say that she
would as readily poison him as give him
cunning decoctions to win his love.

These were no pleasant times for the
people at the Moat, for no sooner had the
visitor departed, after regaling all present
with accounts of how the gun-making went
on, than Anne's temper blazed forth — Polly
said like a blow-up at the Pool — and for
hours and hours Sir Thomas would not venture
to leave his study, nor Dame Beckley
her garden of herbs.

For Anne Beckley had painted and
patched, and worn her different brocades ;
she had tried tenderness, laughing looks,
patience, and threatening of Mother Good-hugh,
all to no purpose ; and her heart grew

VOL. II. s

hot within her as she vowed vengeance
against her rival.

At the Pool the busy works were in full
swing, and the founder had good excuse for
keeping away from his daughter; while Sir
Mark, now that the ice was broken, left no
opportunity seized to hasten on his suit.
Progress he made none, but he did not complain.
'' The love will come after marriage,"
he said, laughingly, and as patiently kept on
working for the future.

To Mace's horror he assumed a quiet tone
of proprietorship over her, and on paying
fresh visits to the metropolis he seemed to
spare no expense in buying presents and necessaries
for the wedding, which he assumed
to be a matter of course, laughing at the
girl's cold and distant behaviour, while he
never failed to treat her with the most tender
consideration.

She made appeal after appeal to her father,
but with the sole effect of angering him.

For he had been long in making up his mind
to give his consent, but when it was given
the obstinacy of his nature made him deaf
to all appeals; while, even had he been yielding,
there was one at hand always ready to
back up the weak part, as he by degrees
gained so great an influence over the founder
that, though the latter was ignorant of it, his
will had been pretty well mastered by his
guest, who dealt with him almost as he
pleased.

They were busy times, and the calls made
upon his attention prevented the founder
from paying much heed to his child's pale
looks and restless mien. Guns were finished,
and dragged by heavy teams of horses
through the sandy lanes to the little port,
and there shipped along with casks of black-grained
powder to go round to London or
some other depot. There were heavy sums
of money, too, paid into the founder's
hands by Sir Mark, making the old man's
s2

eyes sparkle as, with few well-turned words,
the royal messenger told him of the satisfaction
felt by Ministers and King at the way
in which the orders were being carried
out.

'' You will be a great mina, father-in-law,^^
said Sir Mark, laying his hand on his shoulder.
'' Work away, for I have placed matters
in train for another order when this one is
done. I don't see why my relative should
not be rich."

^' Thanks, my lad," said the founder,
whose face softened. ^^ Go on, and remember
this, that in turning a stream of gold
into my pockets it is providing a great dam
like yon Pool to work thine own mill-wheel
by-and-by."

^^I have thought that many times," said
Sir Mark to himself. Then aloud, '' This
order, you see, was all in good faith, and
the money has been paid. I look now for
my reward — payment in advance, before i

bring in the next. When is our wedding to
take place ? "

The founder looked grave for a few minutes,
and then gazed full in Sir Mark's face.

'^ There are no half measures with me,
my lad," he said, laying his hand in Sir
Mark's. '' Whenever you like. Shall we
say when the last gun is finished and "

sand payments made," said Sir Mark,
smiling. '^ Good ! it shall be so. I start tomorrow
for town, and from there I'll bring
the moneys, and I hope the new (order,
along with presents and wedding ornaments
for my darling. Is it to be so ? "

'^ Yes," replied the founder ; and he turned
sharply, for a low sigh had reached his ear,
and he was just in time to see Mace disappear
from the door, which she was about
to enter when she caught his words — words
which sounded to her like a death-warrant,
and which rang in her ears as she hurried to
her chamber and locked herself within.

There was a peculiar look upon Mace
Cobbe's countenance as she sat gazing
straight before her, thinking of her position.
Gil had been gone four months now, and
might not return for a couple more ; though,
if he did, what could she do ?

She shuddered at the thought, and for a
time was overcome.

The next day, though, she was all feverish
energy, and, setting off as if for a walk, she
made for Master Peasegood's cottage, whereafter
a little hesitation, she plunged desperately
into the matter in hand:

^' I have not been idle, my little one,"
said the stout clerk, 'but have on more than
one occasion roundly taken thy father to
task about this matter''

'eyes, yes," said Mace, excitedly, "and
what did he say ? "

Bade me look after people's souls and
let them look after their bodies themselves."

^^Ay," said Mace, with a sigh, ^4t is what
he would say."

Sir Mark has been here to me about —
about "

^'The wedding?" said Mace. 'speak
out. Master Peasegood, I am ready to hear
aught of thee."

*' Yes, my child. He came in his big
commanding way to say that he should require
me to be ready at a certain time."

'' Yes, and you — what did you say ?"

'' That I would sooner "

'speak! Pray tell me," cried Mace,*pas-
sionately; "you torture me, you are so
slow."

I said an unkindly thing, my child,"
replied Master Peasegood, sadly. "I said
that I would rather read the burial service
over thee than wed thee to such as he."

"Thank you. Master Peasegood!" she
cried, eagerly. " And you will keep to that,
for I cannot wed this man."

'' My child," said the stout parson, ^* I
promised friend Gil — for thy sake, not his —
that I would be like a second father to
thee, and I will ; so come to me when thou
art in trouble, and I will give thee counsel
and aid."

'^ But I am in trouble, Master Peasegood,
and want thy counsel and aid."

'^ Here they are then, little one," he said.
'^ Go home and wait patiently. It is not
thy wedding-day yet. Who knows how this
gay spark stands at court ? At any hour he
may be recalled, and all his matrimonial
plans be knocked upon the head. Fair Mistress
Anne would give her ears to wed with
him ; and if she has set her mind upon it,
mark me, she will likely enough take steps
to stay his wedding you. There is many
a slip 'twixt cup and lip, child, and maybe
this trouble of thine will settle itself without
action on our part. It will be time to take
stringent steps on the eve of the wedding if

nothing happens before, and something may.
At all events he shall not wed thee in
Eoehurst church while I am parson there.
Hah ! who may these be ? "

There were steps at the door, and a sharp
rapping, which the parson responded to himself,
to find confronting him a stern, semi-military
looking man in dark doublet, with
two followers cut exactly upon his pattern.

^^ Master Joseph Peasegood, Clerk of Roe-hurst
? " said the stern-looking man.

'eyes," said the parson; ^' I am that person,
sir."

Here is a paper of attachment for thy
person, Master Peasegood. Thou wilt with
me at once to London."

* I — go — to London — attachment - what
for?"

'' I cannot answer thy question, sir," was
the reply. '' I am only executioner of this
warrant. I believe it is something to do with
Popish practices. Come, sir, I have a carriage

waiting. The roads are bad, and we
want to be going''

'' Popish practices ! I, of all men in the
world ! But my people — who will take
charge of them ? "

'' A reverend gentleman is on his way,
sir' was the reply.

Master Peasegood read the document,
bowed his head, and hastened his few preparations,
standing at last finally with Mace's
hand clasped in his.

*' Tell Father Brisdone I commend thee
to his charge, my child, and bid him from me
take thee away from thy father's care sooner
than let thee become the wife of this man.
Tell him, too, that I am puzzled about this
seizure of my person. I know not what it
means, unless it be for consorting with him''

'' I know. Master Peasegood," said Mace,
pressing his great hand. " You have an
enemy who has done this thing."

'' Ay, child, and who may that be ? "

The man who asked a service of thee,
which thou did'st refuse."

'sir Mark? Yes, thou art right. Goodbye,
my child, good-bye."

Mace's heart sank as she saw the stout
figure of her old friend go towards where a
great lumbering, open vehicle was standing,
and as it disappeared she felt that she had
one friend the less. It was, then, with a
mute feeling of despair that she turned down
the narrow, winding lane to meet a little
further on three men, who, at a short distance,
seemed to be the same she had so
lately seen depart.

On a nearer approach, however, she found
that it was their uniform, or livery, only that
was the same.

They looked at her curiously as they
passed, and then a shiver ran through her as
the thought struck home, — what was their
object there ?

"Father Brisdone!" she ejaculated. ^'They
have been after him."

A cold feeling of despair crept over her
as she read in all this the power of the man
who sought to make her his wife. He was
evidently at work insidiously removing her
friends, to replace them with people of his
own, and more than ever she felt how helpless
her position had become.

With her heart beating a slow, heavy,
despairing throb, she passed on a rising piece
of ground to gaze through the trees at a portion
of the Pool which lay gleaming in the sunshine
; when her brow contracted strangely,
and her eyes half closed, as sinister thoughts,
like those of some temptation, came upon
her.

She was to be alone and friendless if Father
Brisdone was taken away: her father had
literally sold her to this man, and sooner
than he should take her in his arms and call

her wife she felt that she would seek for rest
in the great Pool.
"Pst! pst!"

Mace turned sharply, and, gazing in the
direction from which the sound had come,
she saw high up amidst the bushes on the
bank the rusty cassock of him who had so
lately been in her thoughts.

'' Dear father!" she cried. ^' You there?"
'' Hist, child, hist ! Don't look in my
direction, but stoop, pick flowers, and talk
to me as you bend down."

«< Why are you there, father ? " she said
softly, as she obeyed his words.

'* It is the old story, child. I am one of a
proscribed set of men now, and I have had
warning from Tom Croftly that there are
those here who seek to make me a prisoner."
'^ Yes, father, I have seen them."
'' Then I must take to hiding, child.
When Gilbert Carr's ship returns he will
give me safe passage to France. Till then

I shall make my home in the iron-pits — the
disused ones in the old beechwood."

*' Where I'll bring thee food and covers,
father," cried Mace, who found relief from
her own troubles in helping others.

'^ Nay, child, thou wilt be watched by one
at the Pool. Tom Croftly will bring me all
I want, if thou gives it to him. He is trusty,
and will bring any message or letter with
faith and care. I shall be watching over
thee still, though I am in the old hole of the
rock. It is not the first time that I have had
to hide for life and liberty. But hark here,
my child, I have said come not. If matters
occur that make it necessary for thee to flee
thine home sooner than wed a man thou dost
despise, come to me in the forest, and maybe
together we may escape to where I can find
thee a home with a holy sister, and rest and
peace."

'^ Thanks, father, oh, thanks!" cried Mace.

^^ But listen : Master Peasegood has been
taken away."

So soon ? But I am not surprised. It
is because he refused the same offer as I.''

'^ Were you asked, father ? "

*' Nay, child, I was ordered ; and that is
the real reason why I am hunted down.
Hist ! steps ! Go on."

Mace involuntarily walked on through the
wood, bitterly lamenting that she should
bring indirectly such misery upon those she
esteemed, when a slight rustle in the bushes
made her turn her head and utter a faint
cry, as she was tightly clasped in Sir Mark
Leslie's arms.

CHAPTER XVII.

HOW MACE MADE A PROMISE.

'^ I DO not often exact my lover's fees'
cried Sir Mark, kissing her passionately in
spite of her struggles, while a feeling of
horror half froze her, as she thought that
this man must have heard the conversation
with the father.

In a few moments, though, she had freed
herself, and stood panting before him, longing
to look back, and straining to listen to every
rustle of the leaves behind her, and yet not
daring so to do, lest it should draw attention
to the fugitive.

'' How silent you are'' he said, laughing.
^^ A stranger would think you feared me,
and not that we were so soon to be man and

wife. My darling, is it not time we grew
less distant ? '*

'^ Let me pass, Sir Mark!" cried Mace,
hardly knowing what she did or said.

^' Pass ! No, little meadow-sweet. I will
walk home with thee, proud and delighted
to be thy champion and protector — the happiest
man on earth''

He talked on as he walked by her side,
turning from time to time to gaze on her
white face, as they neared the cluster of
houses near the Pool, and seeming pleased
that first one head, and then another, should
be turned to gaze after them as they went
across the little bridge and into the porch.

As soon as she could escape. Mace hurried
up to her own room, where she recovered a
little from the agitation, as she thought of
the father, and that there was one place to
which she could flee in the event of matters
coming to the worst. She had to plan, too,
that certain necessaries should be sent to

VOL. II. T

Father Brisdone, all of which relieved her
of her terrible brooding thoughts, and the
feeling that she was forsaken. Helping
another, and that so old a friend, was her
solace, though she wept bitterly as she
thought of how it was through her that he
suffered.

One thought, too, now dominated over
the others, and that was, had Sir Mark heard
her words ? If he had, the father would be
seized, and she sat thinking, longing to send
him warning, but afraid, for she knew that,
with all his smiling openness of countenance.
Sir Mark's words that he spoke to her on
their way back were true, for he had told
her that he was jealous of her ; that he
trembled lest some one should rob him of his
great joy, and that his men were compelled
to be watchful; and often when she had
seen a dark figure near her window at night
she was sure it was not from objects of
gallantry — that Janet had not been waited

for, but that the house was being guarded as
if under military rule.

It was with a sense of relief then that she
saw Sir Mark's departure for London the
next day, even though he told her, as he
held her hand, that on his return he should
claim it as his own.

There would probably be a fortnight, in
which time a change might come, as Master
Peasegood had said, for Sir Mark might
never be permitted to return.

The freedom from his presence, though,
brought little more liberty, for that very
afternoon a quiet, smooth-faced, smiling man
in clerical garb called at the Pool-house,
introducing himself as the minister who was
temporarily to hold the cure of souls.

Mace shrank from him with fear and distrust,
for in him she knew she was looking
upon Sir Mark's creature, a spy upon her
actions, and one who was to bind her fast to
him with chains that could never be undone.
T 2

She contrived to carry various articles
down to Croftly's cottage, but in doing that
she found that she was watched, some or
other of Sir Mark's men loitering about,
apparently enjoying their idleness and freedom
from their master's eye ; while she soon
awoke to the fact that even her visits to the
gardens were noted, and that Janet, her
maid, had been bought over to the other
side.

She tried one more passionate appeal to
her father, but he would not hear her ; and
after this she felt that she was thrown upon
herself to make some desperate resolve,
either to flee to Father Brisdone, or take a
more terrible step, one which during the past
few days she had learned to look upon almost
without a shudder.

The time seemed winged by magic as it
glided by, and, trembling and excited, she
knew that the hour had nearly come for
Sir Mark's return. Twice over messengers

had arrived from him, in each case laden
with presents, and bearing a letter full of
words meant to be tender, but which
excited her disgust. She had had to listen,
also, to the fulsome adulation of Master
Peasegood's successor, who, to her horror,
contrived to get himself asked by the founder
to stay at the house, where he became a spy
and an incubus of which the poor girl seemed
to be never rid.

At length a last messenger arrived, bearing
a fresh order to the founder, and requesting
him to proceed with it at once, at
the same time announcing Sir Mark's arrival
on the morrow.

That night Mace sat at her window debating
within herself as to what she should
do. A last appeal to her father had been so
met that she felt desperate, and a hair's pull
one way or the other would have been sufficient
to draw her aside.

The question she asked herself was, whether

she should flee to Father Brisdone now, or
wait until the eve of the wedding, and she
decided for the latter course, as, sobbing
bitterly, she told herself there was escape for
her still if the father had not been seized.

The night was dark with the darkness of
autumn, and as she sat at the open window,
with her cheek upon her hand, she gazed
out at the dark Pool and listened to the
murmur of the falling waters as they plashed
musically amidst the stones and piles.

Suddenly, in the midst of her despairing
thoughts, her hand dropped on the windowsill,
and her eyes dilated as she gazed before
her at the broad green bank across the race,
where four points of light shone out diamond-wise
as in the happy days of her young love.

'' Gil," she cried below her breath, and
her heart beat painfully as she gazed intently
at the lights, which faded as quickly as they
had appeared.

Was it fancy— a trick, or some treachery?

There were no glow-worms now. It was
long past the time when they shed their tiny
lights, and the appearance, if it were not
fancy, could only be some accidental resemblance
which she had magnified in her excited
state.

It was nothing, she said, as a feeling of
misery came over her, and the tears rose to
her eyes as she wondered where Gil could
be, and whether he thought of her at that
moment, when there was a slight rustle below,
and she reached out of the window, asher
name was uttered in a low, deep voice
which she could not mistake.

^'Mace!"

^^Gil!"

For answer a foot was placed upon the sill
below. He sprang, and caught the mullion
of her window, drew himself up and clung
there, with both hands, as she flung her arms
round his neck, and laid her face against his
cheek.

They were moments of ecstasy mingled
with grief and pain, as in her delight at
Gil's return Mace began to whisper to him
of her terrible position.

'^ I know all, sweet," he whispered back.
^' But hush, speak beneath your breath. You
are watched at every turn, and it was only
by setting two of my men to lead the spies
upon a false scent that I could get to the
window. Oh, my darling, I could die now
after this joyful meeting. I have not doubted
of thy love — not much ; but I did not know
how thou lightest be forced."

Oh ! Gil, Gil, I am most miserable'' she
moaned.

'^ I know it, sweet. Father Brisdone has
told me all. But, there, you will listen tome
now. Mace, dearest, you will not wed
this man ? "

/^ Gil, I was thinking when you came tonight
I'd make the Pool my wedding-bed."
^'My own!" he whispered, as he longed to

press her in his arms — the arms that clung
painfully to the window-sill to keep his face
on a level with hers.

^^I was so miserable I wished myself
dead."

^' But now ? " he asked.

snow," she said, forgetting all timidity
in her joy, as she clung more closely to him,
'snow I wish to live."

^^ And you will go with me ? "

^' What ? leave my home — my father ? "
she said, half in amaze that he should propose
such a thing, and with all a woman's
inconsistency, though so few minutes before
she had thought of fleeing to Father Brisdone
to seek a home abroad.

'eyes, when it is no longer a home to
thee, sweet. Give me the name of husband.
Mace, my own old love. I have but moments
to say it to thee. Come with me now
from this window. I have half a dozen men
waiting. Four shall help to guard you to

our hiding-place while two go to the old
iron-pits and fetch thence Father Brisdone.
He shall wed us at once. Or we will away
to my boat in the little river and go down
to my ship, where let even the King seek
thee if he dare."

^^Oh, Gil— dear Gil, I cannot!" she faltered.


'' Quick' he whispered. '^ Hold me tightly,
sweet, for my arms are failing. Look here,
Janet shall come if thou wilt*'

^^ Nay, nay, she is false."

Then come without her, sweet. Come,
and be my own wife, and let us laugh at
this intruder, who would rob us both of a
happy life."

'^ No, no, no!" she faltered, as she clung
to him. ^^ I cannot come — 1 cannot come."

'^ You do not trust me," he said.

'' Oh ! hush, hush, Gil! " she moaned. '' I
do trust you, and love you with all my
heart. I will die sooner than that man shall

clasp me as his wife, but I cannot, cannot
flee my home like this."

"Yes, yes, dearest, quick, you must decide,"
he whispered, as a faint chirp was
heard.

^' I cannot, Gil. My father — my poor
father, I cannot leave him."

^' Mace, dearest, you torture me and yourself.
You will come."

'nay, nay, I cannot."

^^ What! Will you stay to be this man's
wife ? ''

*^ No ! Sooner death," she cried. ^^ "fie
may not return."

*' He is on his way."

'' Oh, no, no," she whispered, shuddering.
*^ I could not be his wife. He may not
come — a thousand things may happen. Oh,
Gil, Gil, do not tempt me to do wrong,"

^'Nay, nay, I'll not tempt thee, sweet.
tis no temptation to say, * Be my wife.' Is
it so sad a fate ? "

^^ Gil husband — thy wife or death's!"
she sobbed, as she passionately kissed his
sunburned face.

^^ Then you will come, sweet ! " he cried.
^^ Quick, thy cloak and hood."

'^ Nay, Gil, dearest Gil, I cannot leave."

^^Mace!"

^^Do not reproach me," she said, sadly.
^^ Gil, dear Gil, I love thee with all my
heart, but I could not flee from here while
hope remained."

'^ And does it remain here ? " he said, bitterly.


^^Yes, dearest," she whispered. ^^ My
father may repent ; Sir Mark may never
return. While there is either of those to
cling to, I could not go."

'^ But, if they were gone, would you come ?
Tell me quickly''

There was a dead silence, during which
the chirp, as of a bird, was once more heard.

'^ There is something wrong, sweet, and I

must go ; but tell me, were both those hopes
gone, would you come ? "

Again there was silence, and then once
more the chirp of the bird.

'* Gil," whispered Mace, with her lips to
his ear, ^^ I cannot leave my father while
there is hope. If this fails me, on the eve
of my wedding-day, come, and I will flee
with thee to the great world's end."

'^ Seal it," he whispered. '

*gil!"

^' Seal thy promise, sweet," he whispered.
'' My arms fail me ; I cannot draw thee-to
my breast. Kiss me, sweet wife, for my
wife thou art."

Her lips slowly lowered themselves to his,
rested there for long, and then were raised,
as a thrill of joy shot through the young
man's breast.

*^ On the eve of the day appointed for the
wedding, then, I will be here, to take thee
away. Father Brisdone shall be on board

my ship, the boat lie waiting, and there
shall be good men and true to protect thee,
love. You will not fail ?"

^^ I will not fail," she whispered.

'' There goes one hope," he said, as lights
shone through the trees on the track beside
the Pool. '^ Sir Mark has come."

Mace uttered a faint cry.

'^ Nay, love, that should be a cry of joy,"
he whispered. '^ I go hence happy, for the
prize is mine."

Her arms relaxed, and he dropped from
the window, and stole cautiously away ; but
on every hand he found that some one was
on the watch, and that Sir Mark's people,
who were more able than he had expected,
were at every turn.

They had not seen him come, but partly
from suspicion, partly because they half
expected that the announcement of Sir
Mark's return upon the following night
might be merely a ruse to throw them ose

their guard, they were particularly watchful;
and, as they had anticipated, so it happened,
for there was their leader at the gate.

A few blows and a struggle, and Gil could
easily have escaped, but that would have
interfered with his plans ; and hence he was
doubly cautious, the result being that just as
the horsemen bearing lights reached the
house, Gil had crept back and crouched
beneath his mistress's window, unable to
get unseen away.

^' Gil," she whispered.

*' I am here, sweet. They will see me 'if
you stay. 'Go in, and close thy casement."

^' Nay, nay," she whispered, agitatedly.
'^ You will be taken — there will be bloodshed.
Come — quick — in here till they are
gone."

With a bound Gil reached the heavy
window-sill, and drew himself up, got one
arm over, then with a slight struggle he was

half in, then leaped lightly down, and caught
Mace to his panting breast.

*hush! for heaven's sake, hush!" she
whispered as she clung to him, ^' you might
be heard."

sand if I were," he said fondly, '^1
should have blurred my darling's fame.
Mace, sweet wife, that I love thee thou shalt
have no doubt. Heaven bless thee, child.
Good night."

Before she could speak he had placed one
foot on the sill and leaped out on to the
grass, coming down so lightly that as she
darted to the window she hardly heard his
footfalls. There was a slight rustle though
on her left, which must have been he ; and
then as she drew back there was the sound
of low voices talking, and she became aware
that they were those of her father and Sir
Mark.

She shrank away from the window with a

shiver, for the voice of Sir Mark sounded
hateful to her ; but fear lest her lover
should be heard drew her back, and she
stood listening, but heard no sound to cause
her dread.

Once more there was the chirp as of a
bird, and then came an answering chirp as
from off the water, after which all was silent,
and she closed her window to sit down and
wonder how Gil had produced those tiny
sparks of light, and then she knelt down and
laid her cheek against her bed as she prayed
with all her heart for forgiveness if she were
wrong in feeling so joyous — so glad of soul
that her lover had returned.

For there was a delicious sense of ecstasy
of freedom from all pain — pervading her.
She was safe from Sir Mark and his machinations.
He might take away Master Pease-good
and Father Brisdone, but Gil he dared
not touch ; and she closed her eyes and sighed

VOL. II. u

content as she thought of her stout, brave
lover — so strong, so manly, and so true.

Was it the same life, she asked herself,
that she was living a few hours ago ? It
seemed impossible; and she rose at length
so refreshed and calm that she was ready
enough to answer when there was a step
on the stairs, and her father's voice speaking.

^' Art abed, lass ?" he cried.

'' No, father."

'' Then come down. Sir Mark would see
thee and show thee the presents he has
brought from London town."

Mace hesitated for a few moments, and,
had it been the night before, she would have
refused to go. This night she felt so at
peace within herself that she was ready
enough, and went down to read in the eyes
of both that they were ignorant of Gil's
return, though she repented afterwards, and
felt that she was playing a double part, as

she listened to Sir Mark's adulation, and saw
the rich presents he had purchased for his
bride.

It was while she was listening to his words
that she suddenly recollected the necklace of
pearls which she had scattered about the
room where they were seated, and wondered
where they had gone, for she had thought of
them no more.

At last, at a very late hour for the simple
country-place, she was able to retire, and
when she did, and received her father's
customary kiss, the words he uttered were
few but they shot through her like a pang.

For they were words of thanks for her less
reserved demeanour towards Sir Mark; and,
as the poor girl ascended once more to her
room, it was with the feeling strong upon
her that the second hope to which she had
clung had just been swept away.

u2

CHAPTER XVIII.

HOW TOM CROFTLY SPOKE HIS MIND,

It was soon known in Roehurst that Captain
Culverin had returned from his voyage, and
Sir Mark ground his teeth with rage as he
heard the news.

'^ The more need to get the matter oversee
said to himself; and he had at once a
long interview with the founder, one which
set him more at ease, for it was decided then
and there that the wedding should be that
day week, and Mace was summoned to hear
her fate.

She heard it without a word, and from
that day forward went about the house like

one in a dream, but with a strange feeling of
excitement ever growing in her brain.

Wedding clothes lay about her room, and
presents, but she hardly glanced at them.
At one of her interviews with Sir Mark she
had begged that she might be left much
alone, and to her great relief this was
accorded to her, and she waited for the
eventful eve.

She longed to visit Father Brisdone at his
hiding-place in the old ironstone pit, but
she dared not go, for whenever she set foot
beyond the scattered houses she found either
Sir Mark or a couple of his men following
upon her track. She had this consolation,
however, that Gil was evidently in communication
with the father, for he had promised
to have him on board.

At first she was all excitement to know
whether Sir Mark had heard her speaking
to him ; but she felt sure at last that this had
not been so, and so she waited.

Two or three times over her heart was
in a flutter, for there were well-known voices
about the place, as Gil's men arrived escorting
some dozens of the country-carts chartered
to bear to the foundry works load after
load of dirty-looking saltpetre bags, and
sacks of pure, pale yellow stone.

These were dangerous times, for all were
well-armed, and there was risk enough of
encounters between the sailors and Sir
Mark's men, for the former gazed with
jealous eyes at the position taken by the
latter amongst their old friends ; while the
latter, who knew of the treatment of two of
their companions, longed for an open quarrel
and a fight.

But the orders were strict on both sides,
Gil making Wat Kilby scowl as he gave the
most stern commands as to the behaviour of
the men when in the little village; and so,
day after day, loads and loads of the special
commodities were landed and carried away,

and Gil made no effort to see his love or
even speak.

Mace asked her trembling heart whether
Gil would know which was the wedding
eve, as if he would not be sure; and so great
was her desire to hear of the condition of
Father Brisdone that she daily made a
journey to Tom Croftly's cottage, where the
news she heard was always good ; and the
father sent her messages to be of good cheer,
for he was safe.

These visits seemed to puzzle the followers
of Sir Mark, who himself had his
suspicions that they were made by appointment,
and that she here made rendezvous
with Gil ; but following her one day, the most
he saw was a small basket of provisions and
a little flask of wine, all of which he set
down to charity, and walked back with her
quite content.

The unloading of Gil's ship continued
rapidly, and the followers of Sir Mark heard

one or two mysterious communications about
the strange processions that sometimes were
seen in out-of-the-way parts at night, but
their orders were to keep close to the Pool-house,
and no expeditions were made to see
what the processions meant.

In short, there was a lull in the little
hamlet — the calm that precedes a storm —
and women whispered that Mother Good-hugh
had been foretelling that the time of
evil for the house of Cobbe was close at
hand.

Sir Mark seemed to be passing his time in
busily superintending the despatch of the
last piece that had been finished, after careful
proof, and then in idling about the
woods, or rowing upon the Pool, while the
preparations for the wedding still went on.

Once or twice he occupied himself with
shooting the wild fowl with arquebus or
cross-bow, but all the same his e3^es and ears
were attend to every change.

Now that the news must have reached the
Moat, he studiously avoided visiting therefor
he half-laughingly wondered what Anne
Beckley would say.

Jeremiah Cobbe was of opinion that his
intended son-in-law was trying to make
friends with all the people about the place,
so frequent were his visits from cot to cot ;
but this was not so, for he was busy trying
to learn all he could about Gil's whereabouts
and habits; an inquisition in which he was
aided by Master Darling, the temporary
resident parson ; but the total of their knowledge
when added up amounted to nil.

Once or twice did the founder hesitate as
to the course he was pursuing, but in his
business encounters with Gil he found him
calm and stern, and it struck him that Mace
had of late grown resigned; so he let matters
drift, fully aware though he was that Sir
Mark would now have forced him to keep to

his word should he have shown any disposition
to draw back.

'^ He'll make her a good husband," he
said to himself. " She don't fancy it, perhaps,
at first ; but a father must be the best judge
of what is for his child's happiness."

He was down at one of his powder-sheds,
busying himself, and thinking that the Pool-house
would soon be no longer the same,
when he came upon Croftly, who, on the
strength of his old service, said what he
pleased.

Oh, look here, Tom," said the founder,
*' Thursday's to be the wedding day ; you
ought to set the men to work getting ready
something in honour of the event. It's a
busy time, but I shall not take any notice if
some of you stop to rig up a sort of arch."

'' Rig up ! " said Tom Crofts. '' Hadn't
you better ask some of the Captain's men ?
It's more in their way."

^* No, no," said the founder, hastily.
^' Make an arch of green boughs and flowers,
and that sort of thing. You know better
than I do ; go up to the village and bid the
men get the case of viols, and let there bea
dance — the girls will be pleased. Tell
the men they shall have their shilling and
plenty of ale; and you can get some powder —
a keg of coarse black — and the two little old
guns, and fire 'em off. You can have what
wood you like, too, for a bonfire at night.
Do the thing well, my lad, and take a
holiday all of you. I'll find the ale."

Tom Croftly took off his cap, and wiped
his grimy brow with a blacker hand, as he
seated himself on the bottom of an empty
keg.

'^ We had a girt meeting 'bout it in the
'good last night, master," said Croftly; ^' and
talked it all over."

Oh, you did?" said the founder, looking
pleased. " Well, and what did you settle?"

^* First and foremost, master, we settled
that we'd muffle the three bells up in the
tower o' the church."

^' Why, it's two miles away, man, and the
sound wouldn't hardly be heard here."

^^ And then we'd toll 'em all day long''

'^ Toll them ? " cried the founder.

^^ Ay, master, for it be like to us as if young
mistress had been put in her grave."

'' Nonsense, my lad. She'll come back
sometimes. And it's a happy day for her."

^' Happy, eh, master?" said Croftly roughly.
*' Look here, you asked for this, so you mayas
well have it slap i' th' mouth. I talked
to the boys, and they talked to me; and at

last of all they swore as they'd be d d,

every man Jack of 'em, if they didn't treat
the whole thing as a fun'ral, and that, if any
of Sir Mark's chaps tried to get up an ale
shouting, they'd shove 'em in the Pool."

** But you mustn't take it like that, Tom''
cried the founder. *^ It's very good of the

lads to take on so about losing their young
mistress, but you must rejoice. It's to be a
happy day."

*' She looks like it, master' cried Tom.
<^ Why her face be terrifying. Where be her
bright spirits, and her sparkling eyes ?
Don't you make a mistake about it, master.
We don't take on about losing her, none of
us, and we'd half bust every old gun on the
place and raise such a girt bonfire as would
set the country alight, if she was going
to wed the man of her choice. But this
gay fly-golding ladybird chap fro' London !
Ah, master, you be doing wrong, and that
be what we all say."

"^ You, Tom Croftly,'' roared the founder,
angrily, as he writhed beneath the lash of
his man's words, ^' how dare you speak tome
like that ? "

*' Cause it be right," said Croftly, stoutly.
^^ Haven't she and the captain been like two
lovers ever since they was little children,

and sent my heart in my mouth to see 'em
playing so nigh the edge of the race ? "

*^ I will not listen to such insolence,"
cried the founder. " You, Tom Croftly,
come for your wage on Saturday night, and
give up the cottage the week after."

^^ And maybe you'll put William Goodly
in my place, eh ? " said the foreman.

^^ Maybe I shall," cried the founder.
'^ You ungrateful rascal ! "

*' Nay," said the foreman, '* you need not
trouble yourself, mas'. Bill Goodly would
not step into my shoes, nor another man in
the place. And, just to show as I bent
ungrateful as you say, I'll stop on."

'' Stop on ! " roared the founder.

^^ Ay, stop on. Haven't you just took
another good order ? Haven't you got all that
'good ready for the colliers ; and haven't you
just got in a shipload of sulphur and Chinese
salt? Lookye here, mas', you don't know,
I repose, that if 1 left here every man and

boy would go as well. No, master, we bent
ungrateful, none of us ; but we don't like to
see our young mistress sold, and him as
should have had her thrown over."

^^ And pray who is that?" cried the
founder.

^* Captain Culverin, mas'; that be the
man she meant to have."

A wild adventurer — a man who murdered
that wretch Churr."

Nay, master, there bent a man of us
here who thinks that he did," said the
workman, sturdily ; '' and if Captain Gil
was here you wouldn't say it to he."

*^ I am here, Tom Croftly," said Gil,
stepping into the big powder-shed, ^^ and I
thank you and your fellows for your good
opinion. But take no notice of this. Master
Cobbe here does not believe what he said."

'* But I do," cried the founder, furiously.

*' Tom Croftly," said Gil, quietly, but
with a flush in his cheek, ^' go, and leave me

with Master Cobbe here. I want to talk
with him."

*^ All right, captain!" said the workman.
Bah!" he added to himself, ^' if he bed
the lad I thought him, he'd make no more
ado but upset the whole of this London
trade, and carry young mistress off. I
would."

*^ Now, Gil Carr," cried the founder, as
soon as they were alone. ^' Were done our
business. You've delivered all your cargo
that I want, and you've been paid your
money. Wouldn't it have been more decent
if you had kept away ? "

'^ Perhaps so. Master Cobbe ; but there are
times when a man feels that he must speak.
But, first of all, why do you rake up that
wretched story about Abel Churr ? "

*^ Because I believe it," cried the founder,
angrily.

'^ Nay, you do not. You know I am
innocent, or I should not dare to come to

you now, and ask you by all you hold dear
to give up this wretched business."

^' What wretched business ? " cried the
founder.

'^ I mean this proposed marriage. Listen
to me, Master Cobbe. You have known me
from a boy. I have been wayward and
rough, perhaps, but fairly honest, for my
love for Mace has kept me a better man
than I should have been."

'' What does all this mean, Gil Carr ? "

'' It means, sir, that I make my last
appeal to you before it is too late. I loVe
Mace dearly. Give up this wedding and
wait a year — two years— any time you will,
till you are satisfied I am innocent of the
death of Abel Churr, and then give me your
consent. Don't condemn us both to a life
of wretchedness and pain."

Gil had made his appeal at the wrong
time. No matter when he had come, he

VOL. II. X

would have met with a stern refusal ; but
now, when the founder was irritated beyond
measure to find the echo of his own feelings
in the breast of his very workmen, who,
with true British sturdiness, refused to a
man to take part in what they looked upon
as the selling of his child, he was unable to
contain himself, and the pent-up anger came
pouring forth.

^^ Go'' he cried, white with rage, as he
pointed to the entry. '^ Go, ere I'm mad
enough to strike. Thou hast come now to
try and breed fresh dissension — to try and
raise my poor, foolish child in rebellion
against me. I am not a man of blood, but,
look you, your presence near my house from
now till when this wedding has taken place
will be the signal for my people, or those of
Sir Mark, to use force."

'* But you will not let the wedding take
place. Master Cobbe ? For all our sakes,
pause in time."

^^ In time ! " cried the founder ; ^^ what do
you mean ? There, no more''

As he spoke he turned and hurried out of
the powder shed, and past two or three more,
to enter at last one of the stone buildings,
where the casting was carried on; but Gil
stuck to his heels, following him closely
without noticing Sir Mark, who, on catching
sight of him, raised a finger as a signal to
one of his men.

^^ You will not sell poor Mace like this,"
cried Gil, as the founder turned upon him as
if at bay. '' Master Cobbe, for both 'our
sakes, pause while there is yet time."

'' Out upon thee, Gil Carr ; thou mad-detest
me ! " cried the founder. ^^ Yet time ?
What do you mean by speaking to me like
this? Am I not my own master?"

^' Yes," replied Gil, humbly; "and this is
why I appeal."

<' Why you rebel against me, you should
say," cried the founder, passionately. ^' What
X 2

am I to understand that you mean by ' yet
time ' ? "

I mean before it is too late," said Gil,
speaking humbly and imploringly as he
forced himself into making this last appeal,
before venturing on an act that was repugnant
to him, and which on calmer consideration
he would have avoided for Mace's
sake.

^^Gil Carr!" cried the founder, furiously,
go thy way, and let me go mine. I will
not be dictated to by the man who has come
like a blight upon my threshold. Like a
treacherous adder, thou hast stung the hand
that warmed thee back to life. Coward —
villain — thou could'st do nothing better than
set thy snares to trap my weak child. Now
go, or ''

He raised his hand and dropped it again.

^^For heaven's sake, listen to me!" cried
Gil, excitedly. '' Master Cobbe, I would bean
honourable gentleman for my father's

sake, to thee and thine, but you drive me to
despair."

In his eagerness he caught the founder by
the arm, but the latter turned upon him
furiously, mad as he was with rage against
himself as much as with the suppliant, whom
he struck heavily across the face, and then
strode away.

Gil staggered back as much from surprise
as from the weight of the blow, and the
blood in a hot flush of passion suffused his
face.

'^ For thy sake, darling," he said, calming
down, '' for thy sake. There, Master Cobbe,
I have done my duty as a man ; if blood be
shed in what follows, I wash my hands of it ;
for 'fore God I swear, that if I fail in one
way, I'd kill my darling at the altar before
she should become that fellow's wife."

captain— quick— this way. Captain!"
cried a voice in a hasty whisper.

^' What is it, Croftly?"

*' This way, skipper. Here in at this
furnace mouth ; it is open behind. Follow
me."

^' What for, man'' cried Gil, sternly, ashe
saw the grimy face of Croftly at the
opening to one of the great brick smelting-furnaces
now void and cold.

*^ Sir Mark, with a dozen men be surrounding
the place."

Gil's hand flew to his sword, but he let it
fall.

** Nay," he said, '^ we must have the
wisdom of the serpent here. We'll try that
first, and if it fails — the sword."

Entering the furnace, then, Croftly helped
him into a black passage beyond, which let
them pass between two vast stacks of charcoal
to the rough track into the forest, which
Gil reached unseen, while Sir Mark, with a
dozen men, searched the powder-sheds and
furnaces in vain.

CHAPTER XIX.

HOW MOTHER GOODHUGH WENT TO WORK.

'thou wicked old hag," cried Anne Beckley,
angrily, as she stood in Mother Goodhugh's
cottage. sphere have I, against my better
sense, trusted to thee, and laid bare 'the
secrets of my heart, and for what ? "

Mother Goodhugh smiled maliciously.

^^ To make thee rich with gold pieces
while thou hast done naught but mock at
me and laugh''

^^ Nay, sweet Mistress," said the old
woman, *^I smiled not at thee. I thought
of what had passed."

'* And what had passed ? "

^' Thou hast not known thine own heart,
and one day it has been set on Captain
Culverin, and another day on the gay young
knight of London."

Anne gave her foot an impatient stamp.

'' What is that to thee ? "

'naught, sweet Mistress, with the beautiful
eyes and lips. Ah, would I were a
man and young," said the wily old flatterer.
^* But it be much to spells. The spirits will
not be mocked at. Thou comest to me and
mayest, ^ Mix me powerful philtres that shall
win Sir Mark's love, and, when thou dost
administer it according to the form I gave,
thy thoughts be all the while on Culverin
Carr. How canst blame me if they do not
act!'^

Anne stamped on the floor again.

'^ I don't care," she cried. ^^ What did you
promise me ? Was it not that I could win
the love of either."

''Ay,^^ said Mother Goodhugh; ^^ and I

worked hard ; but Mistress Mace Cobbe
worked hard too, and had better luck."

^' Don't mention her wretched name."

'' But I must, sweet child. How her
beautiful eyes fire up and sparkle ! " she
said, as if to herself. '^ She be a white witch,
and weaves powerful spells with her father's
wealth. For his money helps her to buy
costly things my pittance will not touch."

^^I have given thee crowns and pounds,"
cried Anne.

sall spent on thee and thy philtres''
returned Mother Goodhugh. ^^ Then Abel
Churr has been taken away through the
tricks of that white witch Mace, who has
forced Culverin Carr to slay him, that I
might not battle against her. Ah, fair Mistress
Anne, she be a potent witch."

'' Then she shall be burned," cried Anne
Beckley, savagely. '^ I have but to swear
against her before my father, the justice, of

her goings on, and she would be seized and
pinioned and tortured''

'' And serve her duly," cried the old
woman, with malicious glee.

seven as I could have thee seized, Mother
Goodhugh," cried Anne, ^^ if I so willed."

*' Nay, but thou would'st not be so cruel
to one who has served thee so well."

*^ Served me so well?" cried Anne, fiercely.
'' What have you done ? "

'^ Tried to win thee lovers'' said Mother
Goodhugh, whining.

'' Ay, and Gilbert Carr treats me with
scorn, and Sir Mark marries that thing —
that creature. Mace Cobbe."

*nay," cried the old woman, ^^it be not

60."

*^ But it is so," cried Anne, '^ and I am
scorned by both. I heard Sir Mark talking
the wedding over with Master Peasegood,
and it will be at the Pool."

^*Both scorned thee!" cried Mother Good-hugh,
raising her hands ; '^ and thou so
beautiful to the eye, and I'll warrant me so
sweet to the touch. She be a powerful witch
indeed."

'^ Then I'll denounce her for one ! " cried
Anne, passionately ; and the old woman's
face lit up with glee, but became serious
directly after, as she grew thoughtful.
^' Nay, child, it would be in vain."
^' But this marriage shall not be."
<^ Why not wed Captain Culverin ? "
'^ Hideous old fool, I tell thee he scorns
me ! " cried the passionate woman. '^ He
loves that wretched creature. I'll denounce
her, that I will. I'd like to see her burn."

She deserves it, too, child ; but it would
be in vain. Sir Mark and his men and
Culverin Carr and his men would defend
her. She has witched them to her side."
'' But the wedding must not be."

*nay, it shall not, then," cried the old
woman.

Anne Beckley walked up and down the
little room for a few minutes, and then with
an ugly look disfiguring her handsome,
weak face, she stopped short before the old
woman.

'dost know how they served the old
woman over at Moreton ? " she said, with
a malicious smile.

'^ Yes, yes," cried Mother Goodhugh,
hastily ; ^'' I heard."

'they tied her neck and heels, and threw
her into the pond to see if she would swim."

'' Yes, yes; the idiots and fools."

They nearly drowned her. Eh ? Does
that touch thee. Mother Goodhugh?" said
Mistress Anne, maliciously, as she saw the
old woman fall a-trembling.

'' Yes, yes, yes. It was very cruel."

'' And then she was committed to prison

on my father's warrant, and perchance she
will be burned at the stake'

'nay, nay, it be too horrible," said the
old woman, whose face was now blanched
with terror.

^^It is only what they'd do to thee, Mother
Goodhugh, if I denounced thee for witches'
practices."

*' Then I'd denounce thee, too !" cried the
old woman, turning upon her like the trampled
worm.

^' And, if you did, who would believe thee,
thou wrinkled, ugly, spiteful crone, who
goes cursing through the village, and evil-eying
all around ? Denounce me ? Ha, ha,
ha ! " cried the girl, throwing back her head
as her eyes flashed, and she looked really
handsome ; ^^ Do I look like a witch ? ''

^^No, no, no, dearie, you are lovely as
woman can be," cried the old crone.

'' Then I'll get thee burned for deceiving
me ! " cried Anne.

^' Nay, child, nay," cried the old woman,
piteously ; ^^ thou would'st not be so cruel."

** I can, and I will," cried the girl, stamping
her foot. ^' I have been a fool to listen
to thee, and thou hast taken advantage of
me to get my money, and laughed at my
weakness because I was sick with love ; but
I'm not such a fool as to be unable to get
revenge. Mother Goodhugh, I'd come to
see thee burnt."

*^ Nay, nay," cried the old woman, grovelling
on the floor before her; '^ don't talk so,
dearie, it be too horrible."

'* A great stake and a chain, and faggots
piled round thee, and the fire blazing, and
Mother Goodhugh roasting. Ha, ha, ha ! it
would be a gay revenge on an old witch."

'' Nay, child, nay, but I be not a witch,"
cried the old woman, who seemed palsied
with dread.

*^ Then why did'st profess to me that thou
wast ? " cried Anne, striking her again and

again, the old woman only cowering down
as she received the blows, and piteously begging
her tormentor not to denounce her.
'^ Thou deceivers me scores of times, and
I, fool that I was, listened, and was fooled
more and more. Now, hark ye. Mother
Goodhugh, I have thee tight. Thou can'st
not win their love for me, but thou can'st
get me revenge. Look here : stop that wedding."


^* I will, child; I will, dearie."

^' You shall I " cried Anne. '^ Mind this :
I warn you. If that wedding takes place,
and Mace Cobbe becomes Dame Leslie "

'^ Yes, yes, yes ! " cried the old woman.

'^ril denounce thee as a witch, and laugh
to scorn any accusations or railings against
me ; and I'll come and spit at thee as thou
burnet at the stake."

Oh ! " half shrieked the old woman,
tearing at her bosom as she heard the other's
words, and felt their power. Then, recovering

herself, she began to fawn upon her
visitor.

Have no fear, dearie. The wedding
shall not be. I can stay it — I can stay it.
I have but to lift up my hand, and it is
done."

I believe thee not ! " cried Anne," but I
warn thee. If that wedding takes place,
pray to all thy familiars to save thee, or flee
from here, for if not I'll have thee dragged
to the stake and burned. Thou knowest
that I can," she said, as she turned to go.
"Yes, child — yes, dearie."

Then remember ! "

Anne went out of the cottage as she said
the last words, and, as Mother Goodhugh
thought of the atrocities that had been committed
against weak old women who had
professed some occult art, she shivered, and
in imagination saw the flames rising round
her withered limbs.

'* She could do it, she could do it," she

cried piteously, ^* But I'll stop it: I'll stop
it. The house is cursed, and the wedding
shall not be ; for I can stop it, and I will."

Left alone to her thoughts, Mother Good-hugh
began to suffer from a fit of terror,
which completely gained the mastery over
her, as she recalled all that she knew about
the terrible sentences passed upon reputed
witches. There was something fascinating
in being able to gain the fear of the common
people, and to be looked up to as a kind of
prophetess ; but she avowed now that the
price paid was very dear. She had won
many triumphs, and been looked up to as a
wise woman, but if she were denounced as a
witch, those who had feared and paid her for
her utterances would turn upon her, for she
was ready to own how seldom her prophetic
promises had come true.

One in a hundred, however, was quite sufficient
to keep up her character ; and whom
there were failures there were always some

VOL* JI. Y

side utterances that could be brought to bear
to soften defeat or turn the matter to her
advantage. And so for years she had
managed to keep up the character of a wise
woman, and amass no inconsiderable amount
of the rustic people's savings, for there was
always something upon which she could be
consulted, and, in spite of her fears, she sat
hugging herself upon her success as she
thought of this.

'' What be I to do ? " she muttered ; '* and
how be I to go to Cobbe's house ? If I go
I shall be sent away. Why be not Abel
Churr here to help me ? "

In spite of her efforts to fight back her
dread, the recollections of the death scenes
she had heard described made her tremble,
and, when a hasty step was heard outside,
she rose with a cry of horror, and darted
towards the inner chamber, but paused on
the threshold, as she heard a woman's voice
repeat her name.

Mother Goodhugh, Mother Goodhugh ! '*

^' Yes; who be it?" she said, and, tottering
to the door, she opened the latch with
trembling hand to as it were admit a ray of
light to her breast, for the visitor brought
hope.

It was Janet.

'^ Well, child," she said, ^^ and why have
you come ? "

*' Don't ask me yet, mother," whispered
the girl, hurrying in, and helping to close
the door. '' If Mas' Cobbe knew I become
here he would half kill me." ^

'' Of course, of course, child ! It be very
wrong to come and visit poor Mother Good-hugh.
Aren't you afraid I should curse you,
child?"

'^ Oh no, mother!" cried the girl, who,
now that she was inside, recovered herself.
*' I want you to bless me."

^^Ah, child, and how?"

^^Oh, mother," giggled the girl, 'you
y2

know. How do young women want to be
blest''

'^ With a husband, eh, dearie?" said the
old woman with a cunning leer, as she
scanned Janet's pretty, weak face, and
thought about how her good fortune had
played into her hands by sending her a tool
with which, if she were skilful, she could
work her ends.

^^But thou should'st not make me say it
out loud, mother," said Janet, with another
giggle; ^^but, when there be so much courting
and love-making up at home, how can a girl
help thinking about such things ? "

^^ Ay, truly, dear, how indeed! But why
should not so bonnie a maiden win a husband,
I should like to know."

^'What, as Mistress Mace?" said Janet,
pouting.

^^Nay, as Mistress Janet," said the old
woman, chuckling. swell, well, and who
is it to be, and what can I tell thee ? "

'^ I want — I want to knows

Ay, ay, speak out, dearie."

^' I want to know," faltered Janet, glancing
at the door of the inner room and then at
that of the entrance, '' I want to know — Oh,
I aren't ask it," she said, turning red and
pale by turns.

^^Thou would'st know the name of thy
husband."

^' Ay, how could you tell that ? " cried the
simple girl."

^' Such things be as plain to me as if they
were written in a book. Sit down there,"
she cried, pointing to a stool in the middle
of the room.

Janet hesitated, but the old woman took
up her crutch-handled stick and struck the
floor imperiously, with the result that the
girl took the seat, and Mother Goodhugh
drew a rough circle round her as she stood
behind the stool.

'^ I want to go back now ; I must go back
now," said the girl, with trembling voice.

'^ Thou canst not go now until the spell is
off'' whispered Mother Goodhugh, as she
thrust her hand into a capacious pocket and
took out a ball of glass, lined inside with
some white metal, which gave it the appearance
of a convex mirror.

*' Shall I see anything very dreadful, and
will it poor me ? " faltered the girl.

'^ I hope not, but I cannot promise," said
Mother Goodhugh. ^^ Sit quite still, and if
anything dreadful comes I will answer for it
that thou be not hurt much."

Janet's heart throbbed as she saw the old
woman come before her and go down upon
her knees, her face convulsed, and lips moving
rapidly ; then, holding the glass in both
hands, her brow puckered as she gazed
straight into it.

'' What be this I see'' she cried in a hoarse

voice; ^'a dark, tall, sun-browned man with
pointed beard, half soldier, half sailor, who
looks upon thee with eyes full of scorn."

'^ Has he dark grey eyes, mother?" whispered
Janet, in an awe-stricken voice.

"Aye, child, and a dashing, roving look."

"It be Culverin Carr," muttered the girl,
pressing her hand to her throbbing heart.

And now I see an old rough, grey man,
big, and harsh, and stark, who would wed
thee, but I know him not, for he keeps his
head away."

Mas' Wat Kilby ! " muttered Janet, with
a sigh.

And now I see another, who is at thy
feet, child; a handsome man in silk and
velvet, who looks prayerfully in thy face,
and asks thee to let him love thee."

Tell me more of him ! " cried Janet,
eagerly.

I can see but little more, child, only that
he has white hands with rings upon them.

and a sword is hanging to his belt. He looks
a handsome and a courtly youth, such as we
have not in these parts here."

'^ 'Tis SirMark," said Janet to herself.

*she looks love to thee, but a woman of
thy size and shape steps in between thee, and
tears him away."

'^ What be she like ? " cried Janet.

^'I cannot see, child, for her head be turned
away, but surely it be thee, from the turn of
the head. How be this ? Thou lightest
against thyself."

'nay, 'tis Mistress Mace Cobbe. Let me
look."

'^ Thou art right ; it be thy young mistress;
and see, the gallant tries to reach thee, and
her hand be raised to strike, and — How
strange ! "

^' What be it, mother?"

'^ The glass has grown dim, as if a black
shadow had passed over it, and I can see no
more. Try thou my child."

^* Nay, nay, I dare not ; it be too terrifying
! " cried Janet, thrusting back the crystal.

^^'Tis better not," said the old woman.
'^ It be dangerous at times. There, child, I
can tell thee no more to-day."

^'But tell me, mother, what can I do ?
Pray give me your help."

Help, child ! How can I help thee ? "

^^ It be all so true," whispered Janet. ^' He
loves me, and she has come between us, and
I hate her. What shall I do ? "

'^ Does she love him ? "

^^ I think so. I don't know."

'' What could I do to help her ? " muttered
Mother Goodhugh, as if communing with
herself, but loud enough for the silly girl to
hear. '^ I could give her a philtre that
would turn her own love for this gallant to
hate, and so comfort her poor suffering heart.
See, child," she said aloud, '' I will give thee
a potion that thou shalt take a little at a

time in every meal ; and, at the end of a
week, thou shalt feel so strong a hatred of
this lover of thine that thou shalt feel perfect
rest. Will that do ? "

^' No, no ! " cried Janet ; ^^ I don't want to
Yes, yes ! " she cried, as an idea seemed
to flash across her brain, and Mother Goods
eyes sparkled as she saw how well
her plans would be carried out by the foolish
girl who, she felt sure, would administer the
drops to Mace in place of to herself ; and,
going into the inner room, she remained
away for some few minutes before returning
to Janet, and, pressing a little bottle in her
hand, —

stake that, child, but let no soul know
whence thou hadst it."

*^ Trust me for that, mother," cried Janet,
joyously. ^^ What shall I pay you ? "

'' Pay me, child! " cried the old woman.
'nothing, dearie; I am no old money-getting

witch, but a simple, decent woman,
who does these things for love. There,
dearie, give me a bonny kiss of those red
lips, and go thy way ; Mother Goodhugh
will help thee again if thou should'st come."
^^ But mother," said Janet, glancing back
at the door.

^^Yes, child, yes?"
*^ Will this act quickly and soon ? "
^^Yes, child; why?"

Janet reddened and hesitated, while the
old woman's eyes seemed to search her
through and through. •

'^ Speak to me at once, child. But just
as thou wilt, I can read thy thoughts, I
know," and she laughed maliciously.

^^ Oh, mother ! " cried Janet, bursting into
tears.

*'I think thou hast been very wicked,
Janet."

'* Nay, mother, I could not help it ; I tried
so hard to be good."

^^ My duty should be to tell Mas' Jeremiah
Cobbe."

'' Nay, nay, mother, he'd drive me hence,
and Mas' Peasegood would make me stand
out before all the people in the church.
Nay, good mother, give me something, pray.
Sir Mark's stout followers be rude wicked men.
And Mas' Wat Kilby, too," she sobbed.

^^I've given thee that which will help
thee — I can do no more," said Mother Good-hugh,
sternly.

'now thought angered with me, mother,"
pouted the girl. '' I wish I had not come
and told thee, that I do."

Tchah ! she says, told m^," laughed the
old woman, 'when I knew as well as all
the world will soon know, Janet, an' thou
do not use my philtre."

Janet turned pale.

Pray forgive me, mother, I'll use the
drops."

** Ay, go and use them, and through them
win a husband, child. Then all will be
well."

^^ Yes, yes, mother ! " cried Janet, eagerly.

** There, I forgive thee ; but get thee a
husband quick. Kiss me, child. Now go."

The girl eagerly pressed her ripe red
mouth to the pale and withered lips of the
old woman, and then, after a glance outside
to see that she was not watched, she hurried
back towards the Pool, while Mother Good-hugh
stood looking after her, and softly
rubbed her hands. •

■^^If aught should happen," she muttered,
'' the girl dare not speak, for I gave her the
stuff to take herself. It would be her doing,
and the wedding would not take place. But
what would Mistress Anne Beckley say ? "

She stood thinking for a few minutes before
she spoke again.

^^ Nothing. She dare say nothing. But

I be a witch, be I, madam ? Have a care,
then, for thyself. If one of two people is to
die, why should it be I ? But we shall see.
we shall see : there be time enough yet."

END OF VOL. II.

OF Thou

University

or Ill Noise

82.5
F3595>u?

v.2>

I
f

.^rnt

y

Granville Club

"V

SWEET MACE

A SUSSEX LEGEND OF THE IRON TIMES.

BY

G. MA]^VILLE FE:N"]^.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. III.

LONDON: CHAPMAN & HALL,
LIMITED.

1884.

[All Rights Respired.]

CONTENTS.

VOLUME III.

CHAP. Page

I. How THE Witch said there should be

NO Wedding . 1

II. How CULVERIN CaRR SEALED UP THE

Store 16

III. How Gil and his Men drew Sword . 33

IV. How the Powder had its Say . . 4?6
V. How the Love Philtre worked . . 55

VI. How Gil brought the Bride from the

BURNING House . 70

VII. JIow Master Peasegood preached Wisdom
. 96

VIII. How the Becky Pullet ruled the

Roost . 124

IX. How Master Peasegood said his Prayers

and paid a Visit . . . .144

X. How Mother Goodhugh pared ill at

Justice's Hands . . . . .162

XL HuW ROEHURST KEPT FeTE FOR A WeDDING

AND A Death . 187

i;hap. Page

XII. How Mistress Anne watched and

FEARED 198

XIII. How THE Witch-Faggots were fired . 207

XIV. How Wat Kilby fired a Train and

Mother Goodhugh spoke . . . 232

XV. How Culverin Carr solved a Problem . 248
XVI. How Sweet Mace awakened on her

Wedding-day . 264

XVII. How Mother Goodhugh missed her

Revenge 281

XVIII. How Croftly cut the Hay in the Two-year
Stack . 289

XIX. How Gil Carr lit the Lamps of Love . 300

CHAPTER I.

HOW THE WITCH SAID THERE SHOULD BE NO
WEDDING.

'ii

That Mother Goodhugh must have a care
■of herself," said Sir Thomas a day or two
later ; and Anne let fall her work upon her
knee to listen to her father's words.

'^ And pray why?" said Dame Becldey,
who was shaking up some strange infusion
of herbs in a bottle.

*^ I hear strange things of her," said Sir
Thomas; ^ things that, as a justice, I shall
be bound to stay."

^* And why?" said the dame, as she took

VOL. III. B

out the stopper and had a long sniff at the
contents of the bottle.

'^ Because they savour of witchcraft and
the use of spells. His Majesty has opened
a stern commission against such dealings,
and as one whom he has delighted to honour
I feel bound to show my zeal."

^* Fiddle-de-dee ! " cried Dame Beckley ;
^* show thy zeal by growing wiser, Thomas.
Smell that ! "

As the dame lie the bottle beneath her
lord's nose, Anne glided out of the room,
and made her way towards Mother Good-hugh's
cot, where she found the old woman
ready to meet her with a suspicious look,
and, with a feeling of gratified malice, told
her of the words her father had let drop.

^^ But you could stay him, dearie," said
the old woman, with a look of terror which
she could not conceal.

^^ Yes. But tell me — what have you
done ? "

^'Wait, dearie, wait," whispered the old
woman. ^' The wedding will never be."

'^ But it takes place in four days ! " cried
Anne. '' Sir Mark actually dared to come
over and tell my father."

'' And he told thee, dearie ? "

'' Nay, he told my mother, and she told

me."

'' Four days," said the old woman trembling;
^^four days. The time be short, but
it will do. I tell thee the wedding will
never be." «

'can I believe thee this time. Mother
Goodhugh ? " cried the girl excitedly.

'' Give me thy word as a lady, that I shall
not be ill-treated by thy father and his
people, and I swear to you the wedding
shall never be."

'' There is my hand," said Anne; and, as
the old woman held it, there was a strange
look on the girl's face as she bent down and

b2

Mother Goodlmgli wliispcrcd to her for a
few minutes, after wliicli she Imrricd from
the cottage.

^^ And they call me witch, and think me
ready to do any evil ! " she muttered as she
gazed after the girl ; ^^ while that young,
fairly-formed creature has a heart full of
devilry such as never entered mine. But it
must be done — it must be done."

She sat brooding over her cold hearth till
evening: and then, as soon as it was dark
put on her cloak, took her stick, and walked
cautiously to the Pool-house, where she
succeeded in getting to the kitchen window
unperceived, reaching in and touching Janet
on the shoulder with her stick as she sat
nodding near it in her chair.

The girl started, and as her eyes fell upon
the face of the visitor her lips parted to
utter a cry, but the peculiar look on the old
woman's face seemed to fascinate her, and she

sat back gazing at her as Mother Goodhugh
climbed in at the casement, and stood by
her side.

'^ Wh— what do you want ? " faltered the
girl.

'^ I've come to see thee, dearie," said the
old woman, smiling. '' I want to know how
you be getting on,"

^^ But you must not stay here!" cried
Janet, making an effort to recover herself.
^^ If master knew he would drive me hence."

^' Go and tell him, then, child," said
Mother Goodhugh mockingly. '^ Go and tell
him that Mother Goodhugh has come to ask
thee about thy love affairs, and the philtre
she gave thee. What ? You will not ? He,
he, he, he ! What a strange girl you are."

^' But you must not stay! " cried Janet
in alarm. '^ If you were found here master
would never forgive me."

'^ He is sitting smoking and drinking in

his parlour, dearie, and never comes this
way after dark."

^^ Yes, yes, he does !" cried the girl ; ^' he
comes sometimes to go down to the powder-cellar
with a lantern''

^^ What, through that door ?" said Mother
Goodhugh, pointing.

'nay, nay! That be the beer cellar. That
be the way to the powder-cellar," she said,
pointing to a massive door, down a couple
of steps. ^' That be the first door, and there
be another farther on at the end of the
passage."

'^ Law dear ! " said Mother Goodhugh ,
'^ and aren't you afraid, when they bring
the stuck down ? "

^^ They never bring it through here'' said
the girl. '' They let the little barrels down
through a hole covered with a flat stone outside
there amongst the trees, and master
goes along with Tom Croftly to take it, in

their slippers, and then comes back and
locks it up''

^* Ay, and I'll be bound to say always
carries the keys in his pocket, eh ! "

'^ No," said the girl, shaking her head.
^' They hang on a nail in the passage by the
door."

^^ There, I don't want to know about the
powder, dearie," cried Mother Goodhugh.
*' Oh, the horrible stuff ! I always begin to
curse when I hear it mentioned, so we won't
talk about it. I came to see you, and talk
about love, and "

'^ But you mustn't stop, indeed you mustn't
stop," whispered Janet. ^^ Suppose Mistress
Mace should come ? "

^'But she won't come, dearie. She's in
the corner of the parlour window with the
handsome young spark from town."

'' How do you know ? " cried Janet.

^ ' How do I know, child ! He-he-he ! Do
you think there's anything I don't know?

You came to me because I was the wis
woman, eh ? "

'^ Ye-es," faltered the girl.

"Well, didn't you expect me to be wise,
child, eh ? "

Janet shrank as far away from her as she
could, and stared at her, round of eye and
parted of mouth.

^' Look here, dearie," whispered the old
woman, " don't try to deceive me. I'm such
a good friend, but such a bad enemy. You
wouldn't like to make me angry, and set me
cursing and ill-wishing you."

"N— no," faltered Janet, who began to
be horribly frightened of the penetrating eyes
that seemed to read her inmost thoughts.

No, of course you would not. How often
didst say Mas' Cobbe went down into the
powder-cellar ? "

'^ Only once a month," said the girl
'* when they've finished working."

Then he'll be going down directly ? "

*'0h, no; they finished there last week,
and it will be three weeks, just," faltered
Janet.

^^ Dear me, will it ?" said the old woman.
But, as I was saying, it would be so
horrible if I cursed you, though it is not me,
my dear, but something in me that does it.
It be an evil spirit," she whispered, '* and I've
known girls as handsome as you lose their
round, red cheeks, and soft, smooth skin, and
their eyes have grown sunken, and their
foreheads wrinkled. It be very horrible, my
dear, but I couldn't help it."

Janet tried to get up and go away, but her
visitor's fierce, sharp eyes seemed to hold
her back in her seat, a fact which Mother
Goodhugh well knew and rejoiced in.

It was the only pleasure the old woman
had, and she felt at times like this how it
recompensed her for the dread she felt of the
stringent laws. A curious smile played round
her thin lips, and Janet shuddered as the

old woman leaned forward till her face was
close to that of her victim.

^^ How is the love going on, dearie ? '* she
whispered.

'' Don't — ask — me' faltered the girl.

'^ You didn't take the stuff, dearie, to give
yourself ease ? "

'^ How — how did you know ? "

^^ How did I know ? He-he-he ! " laughed
the old woman, with a vaccination that was
enough to freeze the girl's blood. '' I know,
child, and you can't deceive me. Why
didn't you take it ? "

^^ I — I was afraid," stammered Janet.
^' Mary Goodsell took some once, but it killed
her and her baby too."

*^ Afraid? Stuff! Afraid to give yourself
ease when Mistress Mace was torturing
you by her love-makings with the fine spark
who played with you, and pretended to love
you."

'' He did t pretend," said the girl, indignantly.

^^He did love me till she came
between."

** Ah, yes, child, I suppose so ; but she be a
white witch and very strong, and she would
come between and master him. She could
lead him wherever she liked, and win him to
love her with her spells. Don't trouble your
poor, dear heart about him any more, my
child, but take the drops, and be happy."

*^ I — I don't think I dare," faltered the girl.

^^Dare? Pish! child, you be too brave
and handsome a girl not to dare. It be a pity,
too, that she should have come between,"
said Mother Goodhugh, musingly. ' ^ Ah ! I
have known cases where handsome, noble
gentlemen have come down into country
places and seen village girls, not so beautiful
as thou, child, and married them, and taken
them away ; and a few years after they have
come back looking fine ladies, with their
diamonds, and jewels, and carriages, and
servants."

Janet's eyes sparkled as this indirect piece
of flattery went on.

'' I'll take it," she said hastily ; '' I'll take
it."

^* Take it ? Of course you will, dearie ! "
cried Mother Goodhugh; '^ and now look
here, my child. I want something of thine
to complete a little spell I have at work.
Thou hadst a ribbon round thy neck when
thou comest to me."

*^ Yes," said Janet, '' a red one ; Mas' Wat
Kilby gave it to me."

^^Nay, then, child, that will not do. I
only want an inch cut from it by thy left
hand ; but if it be tainted by an old man's
love it would not do. Let me see. Thou
hast not anything given thee by the young
court gallant ? "

'^No/' said the girl. Then, with a hasty
glance around, she whispered '^ I have a
piece of lace he gave to Mistress Mace, and
which she would not wear."

That will do, child ; go, get me the
tiniest scrap of that, and I will weave a spell
that shall bring thee happiness and peace."

Janet rose and opened the door, and listened.


'* They be all in the room," she whispered,
as she closed the door again.

*^ That be well. Be quick, child, and let me
get out of this place."

*^ Thou wilt not move while I am gone."
^' Nay, nay, child, not I ; but harkye, leave
the door ajar while thou art gone up stairs,
so that if I hear a step that be not thine I
may flee."

Janet looked doubtful for a moment, and
then turned to go.

^' I need not bring the whole piece ? " she
whispered.

^^ Faith, no, child; I'll not rob you of it.
The tiniest scrap be all I want. It must be
something that the knight has touched."
Janet nodded, and slipped out of the room,

but ere she reached the staircase Mother
Goodhugh was at the passage door listening ;
and, as the last stair creaked beneath the
weak girl's tread, the old woman had glided
into the passage, peered about by the light
of the rush-candle burning on a stand, and
uttered a grunt of disappointment. The next
moment, though, she saw what she wanted,
in the shape of a couple of keys hanging high
up, close to the ceiling ; and, stepping on a
chair, she just reached them, and, lightly
crept back along the passage to sit down in
the kitchen, panting from exertion and
excitement combined.

Before she could compose herself Janet was
back, too much excited herself to notice the
old woman's hurried breathing.

** I've got it' she cried, producing a handsome
piece of lace. '^I must cut some oft
here. Be quick ; I be in such a fright for
fear some one should come."

'^ That will do, dearie, " said the old

woman, tearing off a scrap from one end.
*there, put it away, and let me begone.
Take the drops, child, and give thyself ease.
You don't care for such love as his."

Janet did not reply, but gladly opened the
door to get rid of her unwelcome visitor, who
stepped out into the dark night, and hurried
away across the little bridge, and into
the lane, where she turned to shake her
stick at the peaceful-looking house, with its
lighted windows.

*^ Now we shall see — now we shall see ! "
she cried. ^^ Two ways open, and my sayings
coming to pass. There will be no
wedding now."

CHAPTER II.

HOW CULVERIN CARR SEALED UP THE STORE.

The autumn sun shone brightly down into
the ravine that led up to the mouth of Gil
Carr's store, and the steep sides were glorious
with the bright berries that glistened
amongst the changing leaves. Where the
briony, with its bronze green foliage, flung
down its wreaths, there was cluster after
cluster of orange scarlet fruit. The brambles
hung down thorny strands black with rich
ripeness that there was no hand to gather •
and wherever a prickly holly, all glistening
glossy green, had rooted in some crevice of
the sand-rock, it was covered with yellow

berries awaiting more kisses from the ardent
sun before blushing scarlet for the Christmas-tide.


The ferns were beginning to be dappled
on their dark green fronds with gorgeous
dashes of orange and chrome, mingled with
crimson, red as blood, and the dyes of the
finger-leaved maple were nearly as bright.
Where the white tails of the rabbits could
be seen disappearing as their owners heard
a tramp of many feet, the dense small-leaved
sloe-bushes, with their cruel thorns, showed*
many a row of tiny plums of the richest
violet, dusted with a delicate pearly bloom.
The late blossoms of the yellow ragwort
clustered amidst the purple heath, and glossy
ivy hung in strands swinging in the hot sunshine
with the tender tips just brushing the
seeded grass self turned into useless hay.

Hot, still, and breathless lay the ravine,
with all its natural riches, ripe with the
fullness of the season, and now resting,

VOL. III. c

waiting the coming of the cold wintry winds,
that, sweeping up from the sea, should beat
and tear and bear away the brightness of
the autumn and turn all to desolation and
death.

Suddenly a velvety blackbird, with its
orange bill and yellow-circled eyes, uttered
its alarm-note and flew along like a streak
of night away up and along the side of the
ravine to the over-hanging woods. A chat
that had been busy twittering its song over
a golden clump) of furze stopped half-way
and dived amongst the purple heath, while a
glistening lizard, that had half taken the
alarm from the scattering rabbits, ran beneath
the leaves.

The steps in the distance grew plainer on
the ear, and a green olive snake raised its
head where it lay in a twirl ujDon a shelf of
short, fine, sun-browned turf, darted its
tongue out over its hard shiny jaws, and
glided under the root of a tree, seeming to

give warning of danger by its low hiss to
an adder higher up the stony way, for the
little viper condescended to raise its head
where it lay like a scaly letter S upon the
mossy stump of a hazel bush, round whose
green, mouldering, gnarled stem were clustered,
like chalices, so many thickly-veined
fungi that looked as if roughly cast in orange-tinted
deadened gold.

The danger seemed to be far off, for the
viper lay down its spade-shaped head once
more, yawned, and seemed disposing itself
for another sunny sleep, but had hardly
arranged its tail to its satisfaction when —
rustle — tap — something fell from above, and
struck it sharply on the back.

It was only a hazel nut that could hang
no longer in its husk, but ripened into a soft
warm brown, it had dried and dried till a
leaf or two above it had ceased to give its
shade, and then it had fallen like a warning
upon the viper's back.

c2

A moment before and the little reptile was
sluggishness itself ; this blow, light as it was,
seemed to galvanise it into life, for a quick
spasm darted through it, there was a sharp
wave, and the raised head was ready to
strike, while the eyes, that had a moment
before resembled dim oxidised silver, now
glittered like tiny jewels, as the whole
creature seemed to become the picture of
malicious rage, and sought where to drive
deep its poison-fangs.

There was somehow a kind of resemblance
between the little serpent and Anne Beckley,
though there was no one by to see, as,
failing an object at which to strike, the
reptile seemed to consider that discretion
was the better part of valour ; and, slowly
lowering its crest, it threw its body into a
series of horizontal waves, and gradually
disappeared beneath some tawny - golden
bracken on the slope.

The steps came nearer, and suddenly there

was a movement on the edge of the cliff,
high above the store, where a bronzed man
took his place, evidently on the look-out.

Directly after another was seen scaling
the side of the ravine to post himself on the
slope over the entrance, while again another
suddenly appeared amidst the furze on the
green shoulder which overlooked the sloping
downs.

Gil Carr's men did not often visit the
place by day, hence the precautions against
being watched by some intruder. •

High up above the cavern, the gaunt
figure of Wat Kilby suddenly showed against
the sky. Then he shrank down into a little
depression half overgrown with trees, and
soon after a thin, pale blueish vapour arose,
and kept rising, as, pipe in mouth, the old
sailor seated himself upon a block of stone
to watch.

Meanwhile, up the bottom of the ravine,
close down by where the clear stream wandered

in its deep fern-hung mossy shades, a
little party of some twenty men wound their
way.

Every man seemed well armed, and, with
the exception of their leader, all appeared to
be carrying a burden, either a small keg ora
little chest, or a heavy packet, which they
bore through the clustering bushes, which
seemed to interlace their arms and try to
stay them as they forced their way amongst
the rocks.

After climbing pretty close to the end, at
a word from Gil the loads were set down,
arms laid aside, and by means of half a
dozen pike-staves the great stone was rolled
away.

The men then waited while Gil went in
and lit a lanthorn, returning soon after to
make a sign, when one by one they all
lifted and bore in their loads, following their
leader for some distance to where the dim
light showed an inner cavern, whose sides

and roof had evidently been roughly chiselled
out by the hands of man.

Here the fresh additions to the stores of
the place were neatly deposited, and the
sailors sat down, while Gil busied himself in
examining a bale or two that seemed to have
been gnawed by rats.

I wonder where the skipper shoved that
spying fellow Churr —him as we searched
for ?" said one of the men in a low voice to
his nearest comrade.

'further in, somewhere'' was the reply;
'' I thought I could smell him just now."

^^That be rats," said the other ; ^'I know
them well enough. But does the place go
in far ? "

'^ I believe you, my lad. I once went in
ever so far with old Wat and the skipper
carrying lanterns."

'did you?" said the other, eagerly;
^^ and what be it like ? "

'^ Like this here. All the same — hole

after hole, with rough stone pillars to support
it all, just as it must have been dug
out."

Bah! chap, this was never cut out," said
the other. ^^ It came natural like."

'^ Never cut out? Come natural like?
Look here, my lad," said the sailor, rising
and pointing to marks upon the wall that
seemed to have been made with some rough
tool.

** Yes, but anybody might have done
that," said the younger man.

^' You can think what j-ou like," said the
other. '' I'm telling you what the skipper
told old Wat, and you never knew him tell
a lie. He said to old Wat, ' My father found
the way rabbiting when a boy, and forgot
all about it till he felt the want of a place to
store things in unknown to other folk, and
then he recollected this.' He said it was
made by folks as lived underground hundreds
of thousands of years ago."

*^ Oh ? " said the other.

^^ Yes ; and they dug first one and then
another, as they wanted them, and grew
bigger in numbers, and that it went right in
farther than they'd ever been on account of
the bad air."

^' Same as down among the bilge in the
ship's hold ?"

^' That's so. The skipper's father was
most stifled by it once when he tried to go
right in''

'' But do they go right in ?" •

The elder sailor struck the top of an
empty barrel a sharp rap with the hilt of
his sword, and the other's question was
answered, for the sound went echoing into
the distance till it died away.

'rit be a queer sort of place," said the
other, with a half shudder. '' Hang me if I'd
like to be boxed up here along with Abel
Churr, if the skipper's stowed him there."

'' Plenty of room and good water," said

the other, pointing down to whei'o the source
of the stream outside ran tricking through
the interstices of the stone, and formed tiny
pools of limpid clearness.

'^ Ugh ! the place smells damp and cold,
and I should expect to come out, if I was
shut up here, all over blue mould."

'^ Like a bit of ship's cheese, eh? Come
along : here's the skipper."

^^NoWj my lads!" cried Gill, just then,
'^ work with a will, plenty to do."

He led the way, and the men followed
him with a sense of relief out into the bright
sunshine, where the ferns fringed the rough
arch over the entrance to the hole.

They glanced at the heaps of stores and
the various shipping chandlery, spare sails
and cordage, but all was so familiar that
nothing excited their interest.

Just as they reached the outside there was
a whistle from below, and Gil uttered an
impatient ejaculation. But hurrying a little

distance down, he peered over a mass of
rock, to see one of his men, who had been
on sentry, leading a dark figure with bandaged
eyes.

'' Father Brisdone ! " said Gil '' Bring
him along, my lad."

Going forward, he quickly undid the handkerchief
and threw it aside.

'^ I forgot to tell them, father," he said,
holding out his hand; ^' there was no need
with you."

'' I do not wish to pry into any of your
secrets, my son, that you do not care to trust
me with," said Father Brisdone, smiling ashe
took the young man's hand.

Trust you, father? Why, I'd trust you
with anything. But you look weary and
hot with your journey. Sit down on yon
stone : this is nature's parlour. Here is
something to eat. Lockyer, a bottle of that
wine from the case inside on the left. The
cup too."

Leading the father to a nook by the side
of the entry, he placed refreshments before
him, and then said —

'' Now you shall see us lock up the house,
for it may be a year before we return."

'' Why should you show me ? " said Father
Brisdone, smiling.

' Why should I not show the man whom
I have always looked upon as a trusty
friend ? " retorted Gil. ^^ Now, my lads," he
said, and, leaving the father's side, he soon
had his men busy with spade and shovel.
First of all the old stone was reared into its
place. Then smaller blocks were thrust inhere
and there, so as to completely wedge
it in. Then shovels of stones were thrown
into fissures, and sods of earth, mingled
with grass and heather, were carefully
arranged ; after which broad-fronted ferns,
roots of rag-wort, grasses, and bramble
roots were planted, dead leaves sprinkled
here and there, and touch after touch

given till nothing seemed left to be done
but to pour water over the new earth to
bind it together, and make the plants take
root.

There," said Gil to the father, as he
stopped by him, hot and panting ; *' unless
some spy has watched our work, that is safe
enough, for in a week's time those things
will be growing again."

^^ Yes, that will be secure enough'' said
the father, rising. '' Thanks, my son, I was
indeed faint for want of food. And now,
what next ? "

'' Next, father, you will accompany my
man there on board. The little ship lies
ready in the river ; he will take you down in
the skiff. If all's well we shall be with you
soon after midnight, and then heaven send
us favouring gales, for we shall drop down
the river on the tide, and put to sea at
once."

^' But no bloodshed, my son. For heaven's
sake do not let the hand that leads your
promised wife on board be red with the
blood of a fellow-man."

Father," said Gril, sternly, " I am no
cut-throat ; I am no lover of the sword. I
go to-night to fetch my wife, and I go with
peace and love towards all ; but if that manor
his followers stand in my path to prevent
us, they must take what follows, for I
cannot trifle now."

Father Brisdone sighed.

You know the consequences ; if I do not
get her away to-night, they are to be wed at
eight o' the clock, and to stay that, there
must be a deadly fray. Trust me, father ;
and, if I can help it, no blood shall be shed."

'' I trust you, my son. Go, and my
blessing be with you. I shall make the little
cabin a chapel, where I shall pass the time
in prayer for your success."

'^ And then, father, a chapel where you
make her mine by ties that none can break."

*' Amen, my son, amen ! " said Father
Brisdone ; and they parted, the father to
follow his guide down the valley, and Gil to
lead his men through one of the forest tracks
in the direction of Roehurst Pool, Wat and
the other watchers closing in behind.

The advance was made with caution to
within a mile of the foundry, where, beneath
a spreading oak, Gril called a halt, and cast
his eyes over his party of twenty sturdy,
well-armed men, every one of whom could
handle his weapon well.

'' That will do, my lads," he said in his
quick, imperious way. '' Now lie down,
and eat and rest. Silence, every man ; nota
word above a whisper. Goodsell, Kingly,
two hundred paces each of you along the
track. A good look - out, and a quick
whistle, if so much as a berry-hunting child
approach."

His orders were carried out, and then with
the soft autumn evening rapidly drawing
nigh, Gil also went out through the forest to
watch and listen for the approach of footsteps
that might end in the discovery of his
men.

CHAPTER III.

HOW GIL AND HIS MEN DREW SWORD.

The hours glided slowly by, and the soft
damp of night scented the forest with its
peculiar odours, — of decaying leaves, swift-growing
fungi, and mouldering wood. Eves
and again a leaf that had hung lightly by its
dying stalk became so laden with dew that
it fell pattering down with a noise that
seemed startlingly loud in the silence of the
time-borne
on the sighing breeze that whispered
through the branches above came, rising and
falling, the rushing sound of falling water,
as the swift stream dashed past the front of
the founder's house, and hurried towards the

VOL. Il D

huge wheel, but only to be turned aside to
sweep with a sudden plunge into the lower
hole.

There was something very strange and
hollow that night in the sound of the rushing
stream ; and, as Gil stood leaning against a
tree, the falling water seemed now distant,
dying away in sighs ; now close at hand,
rolling down with a thunderous bass. If he
had been asked why it affected him, he
could not have said ; but its deep notes
sounded then like a portent of mishap. He
remembered it afterwards so well, for every
incident of that memorable evening seemed
to be burned into his brain, and he had but to
lean over the side of his ship and gaze away
into the depths of air and sea to have all
come vividly back as if the events were then
taking place.

Hour after hour glided by and there was
no interruption, nothing to disturb the solitude.
From time to time Gil walked back to

the oak, but only to find his men well on the
alert, and that the sentries had nothing to
report. There was scarcely any talking, no
drinking, and no smoking, for his people were
in earnest to do everything possible to carry
out their leader's plans. Even Wat Kilby
contented himself with sucking quietly at his
empty pipe and glancing round at every
man in turn to see that the rules were kept.

Hardly a word had passed between Wat
and his leader, for the old man was in
dudgeon. He had had his shrewd suspicions
that Gil intended to carry off Mace that
night, and he had come to the conclusion
that his duty was to take Janet at the same
time. To his anger and disgust, though, he
found that this was strictly forbidden, and
earlier in the day a sharp verbal contest had
ensued.

^^ Why can't I take her abroad?" he
growled. " You're going to have a priest,
and I want a wife same as other men."

d2

^' Once for all, Wat," said Gil, sternly;
^^ I will have no paltering with the work I
have on hand. Will you obey me and work
to the end for my scheme ? "

^^ Why, of course I will," grumbled the
old fellow ; '* but I don't see why as "

'^ Not another word ! " cried Gil.

^^But what I says is this, skipper: Thought
got a priest — "

^^ Silence, sir; how dare you!" roared
Gil ; and the old man shrank away to pull
out his little pipe, and begin sucking at it
viciously, jerking his long body about, and
acting generally as if he had a volcanic
eruption going on within him, the safety-valve
to which was an explosion of muttered
words now and then, which escaped after a
kind of quake that shook him like a spasm
from top to toe.

All the same, though, Wat made no further
resistance to his leader's will, but with the
energy of a long tried, well-disciplined

follower, he worked away at the various
preparations, and was as obedient as a dog.

As Gil stood thinking in the wood, he
once more went over his plans, wondering
whether there would be an encounter with Sir
Mark's followers, and then smiling grimly to
himself, as he half wished there might be,
and thought of how he would like once more
to stand face to face with the man who was
so nearly robbing him of her whom he had
always looked upon as his very own.

At last the time seemed to him to be a
fitting one for the venture, and, giving the
signal, his men started up from amongst the
dewy herbage ; there was the clink of arms
and a rustling noise as all fell into their
places; and, taking the head of his little
force, Gil gave his final orders, especially
commanding silence, and made for the Pool-house.


Gil's plans were well matured, and his
followers fell into their respective places

without confusion. Arriving pretty close to
the foundry, he posted them behind the
smallest of the furnace-sheds, where the
black shadow of night was blacker than in
the open ; and then, with Wat at his elbow,
he made for another shed, where he knew
that a short stout ladder was kept.

This was in its place, and Wat was about
to shoulder it, when in a low hoarse whisper
the old fellow said: —

^' You'll let me take her, too, skipper?"

For answer Gil turned angrily.

^' Put that ladder down," he whispered ;
^' and go back. Send Morris."

*' No, no, skipper," whispered the old
fellow hastily. '^ Let me go."

^' Put down the ladder. Go back, and
send me a trustworthy man."

'^ I'm the trust worthiest man you've got,
skipper," growled Wat, " only I was obliged
to say a word for I feel as I ought to marry
the girl now. You don't know what it is to

be in love, skipper, or you would not treat
me thus."

'' Do you go, or stay ? " said Gil.

stay," said Wat. ^'I shan't leave you,
skipper, come what may. I've done. Not
another word about it will you hear from
me."

Wat shouldered the ladder, and together
the two men walked towards the water-run,
and along it by the stones to the little
bridge, which they softly crossed, and
entered the garden.

They paused to listen, but all was very
still and dark. A more suitable night could
not have been chosen for the adventure, and
together they made for Mace's window,
where a dim light was burning.

The end of the ladder rustled slightly as
it was borne amongst the trees, and they
again stopped to listen ; but all was still, and
so intense was the darkness now before
moonrise— the moon that was to light the

boat down the river to where the ship lay-waiting—
that they could see neither to the
right nor the left, even the thick bushes
under the window were in the gloom.

Would she fail him at this important time ?
Gil's heart asked ; but he crushed down the
thought. No : she would come, he was
sure of it, for she had promised him, and he
felt no fear of her wanting in spirit for the
enterprise.

*^No," he muttered ; ^' she would go through
fire and water to escape his touch alone, and
she would dare more to be beside me."

There was a thrill of joy at these thoughts,
and he gazed anxiously at the window, waiting
to see it opened, that he might raise the
ladder and help her away.

It must be the hour, he thought, but the
next minute he set it down to impatience.

'^ She will be to her time," he said.

As if warned bv an instinct of coming
danger, Gil Carr drew his sword, and,

resting the point upon the toe of his boot,
stood leaning his hands upon the hilt, while
Wat placed the foot of the ladder on a flowerbed,
and held the two sides, with his rusty
beard upon one of the spokes, thinking of
how he wished they were going to carry off
Janet, and whether she would have been
willing to come.

She did call me an old fool last time,
and slapped my face," he muttered; 'but
that was only by way of showing how fond
she was. Ha ! it be terrifying work having
to deal with such an arbitrary skipper as
our."

Gil still gazed at the window, thinking that
if he had changed places with Sir Mark, and a
dangerous foe had been in the field, a cordon
of sentries would have been placed round
the house for his love's protection ; whilst
Sir Mark was evidently sleeping luxuriously,
and dreaming, perhaps, of possessing his fair
young bride. " Poor, fooled idiot! " said

Gil to himself ; ^* I do not envy him his

morrow's waking. Why, if I . Pst ! Latour

sword."

His left hand involuntarily flew to the
silver whistle that hung at his neck, while
his sword was raised readily, and turned
aside a pass that grazed his ribs. For in an
instant the bushes around them seemed alive
with armed men, who rose in obedience
to a call, and made for Gil and his old
follower.

Wat was as much upon the alert as his
leader, but he had not time to draw his
sword. Not that it mattered, for the short
ladder became a very effective weapon in
the emergency. Raising it with both hands
above his head, he poised it there for a
moment, keeping it well ready, and then,
darting it rapidly forward again and again,
he drove it into the chests of three or four
assailants, sending them crashing down
amongst the bushes, as he kept them sufficiently

distant to prevent them from reaching
him with the points of their swords.

As the first blade gritted against that of
Gil's, he placed the whistle to his lips, and
its note rang out shrilly on the midnight air,
to be answered by the rush of feet over the
little wooden bridge as his men came running
up ; and now there was nothing left but for
the defenders of the house to be beaten back,
the place itself to be forced, and Mace carried
away.

^' Swing the bridge ! " cried a voice, which*
Gil recognised as that of Sir Mark. ^' They're
trapped now. Hollo, there ! Lights, quick !
Surrender, you dogs, in the King's name."

There was a creaking noise as the little
bridge was swung round, and Gil felt that,
far from being in sleepy indolence and
safety, Sir Mark had not only been well on
the alert, but had cleverly made his plans
according to his own lights to entrap his
rival and his followers when they came,

attracted, as he felt that they would be, by
the bait within the founder's house.

'' Poor fool ! " muttered Gil, '' if he thinks
he can take us here."

For his men came running to his side to
group round where he and Wat were standing
well at bay.

CHAPTER IV.

HOW THE POWDER HAD ITS SAY.

Sir Mark had not been alone in his suspicions,
for the founder had had a half fancy
come into his head that Gil might make
some effort to prevent the marriage ; and
after all he could not help feeling that he
would not be sorry if this were done. Now
it had come so near he thought more than
ever that he was doing wrong in giving his
consent, for Mace's distress seemed to be
ever on the increase, and he dreaded losing
his child.

But it's too late now," he muttered — •
too late. Matters must go on as they are,

and it will be a grand and good thing for
my little girl to become my lady — Dame
Leslie, who will take her place at Court with
the finest of them there."

'' Do you think our friend Culverin will
show himself at the wedding tomorrow ? "
Sir Mark said.

'^ I cannot help thinking that he will,"
said the founder.

*' Well, for my part," said Sir Mark, '^ I
have a suspicion that we shall see him sooner
that he will make an effort to carry her off
to-night."

^^ Nay ! " cried the founder, flushing, ^^he
would not dare."

'^ I think he would," said Sir Mark, with
a cunning smile. '^ Why look, man, what
easier ? He has followers and a vessel.
Depend upon it, he will try to get our
darling away to his ship."

If he dared to attempt such an outrage,"
cried the founder, half rising from his seat ;

and then, as if changing his mind, he sat
back thoughtfully in his chair.

'^ You would spit him, eh, Master Cobbe ?
A most worthy proceeding. But, look here,
I have made my plans''

Plans?"

^^ Yes. I have, as you know, six men
here, all well armed, and to do honour to
my wedding a gentleman of His Majesty's
household, a friend of mine, will be here
this evening, as soon as it is dusk, with
eighteen fighting-men beside. These will
come unseen, when I give the signal, and be
placed in ambush in the garden. I shall
plant two by the open bridge, and, if our
friend comes, he and his men will walk into
a trap, for the moment they are over, the
bridge will be closed, and thus, you see, my
dear father-in-law elect, I shall rid myself of
an awkward rival, and his Majesty of a band
of buccaneers.

But there will be bloodshed, and on the
eve of my child's weddings."

Pish ! " cried Sir Mark. ^' Have no fear
of that. Once the rats are in the trap, and
they will shriek for mercy, as such ruffians
and bullies always do. My dear father-in-law,
you shall have the pleasure of seeing the
whole band tied two and two, and marched
off, when the district will be cleared."

sand my business ruined," said the
founder.

^^ Trust me for that, old man," said Sir
Mark, smiling. ' ^ You shall make culverin
and howitzers for his Majesty's troops to
your heart's content, so have no fear. Powder
shall you manufacture, too, but we will
not talk of that. Did his Majesty know that
powder was stored upon your place, ay, ever
so little, he would never be your friend.
Eut how do you like my plans ? "

^^ Not well," said the founder, gloomily.
^' I liked Gil. You rob him of the woman

he meant to be his wife. Why take his
liberty as well ? "

^^ Master Cobbe, this is wretched drivel,"
cried Sir Mark, laying his hand upon his
shoulder. '^ What am I to think of it ? "

^^What you will," said the founder, sullenly
; ^^ I like not my part at all."

sand you will betray my plans?" said Sir
Mark, angrily.

^^Nay!" exclaimed the founder, sharply,
as something of his old mien showed itself
in his countenance. ^' Sir Mark Leslie, I ama
rough yeoman of the country, but I have
something of the gentleman at my heart.
You insult me by your suspicions. I gave
you my word, and my hand upon it that
my child should be your wife, and I repent
me of it now ; but Jeremiah Cobbe is not the
man to go back from his word, and, sooner
than Gil Carr should forcibly carry her
away, I'd take him myself, and deliver him
into your hand."

VOL. III. E

^' I did but jest, father," said Sir Mark
grasping the founder's hand. " Now, let us-see
something of pretty little ]\Iace for an
hour, before I perfect my plans."

Janet was summoned, but she announced
that her mistress was busy preparing things
for her departure, and the girl hurried back
to Mace's room, to gloat over the silk dresses-and
presents that lay about.

Other messages were sent to Mace in the
course of the evening, but she refused ta
come, and at last, out of patience, as the soft
autumn night began to fall, Sir Mark went
out ta finish his arrangements.

^'You are master, to-day, my lady," he
muttered ; '^ tomorrow I shall rule, and
you'll know it too."

Had Gil dared to post a man nearer to-the
house, he would have known of the preparations
made to entrap him, though possibly
they would not have kept him back.
As it was he knew nothing of the well-armed

soldiers who, punctual to the moment,
marched across the bridge, and were rapidly
disposed in suitable places by Sir Mark, who
exhibited no mean generalship in his plans*

Then came the waiting, and Sir Mark
stood listening with the founder by his side,

'' They'll not come," said the latter,
impatiently, after a weary while.

'' Hist ! there is one," whispered Sir Mark,
as a footstep cautiously crossed the bridge.

Why it is a woman," said the founder.

A disguise," replied Sir Mark. " GiL
himself."

'' Nay, it is Mother Goodhugh. I know
her walk and her tap with her stick. The
old hag ! I'll go and turn her back. What
does she want ? ''

*bah! be silent, man; she comes to seethe
maids — fortune-telling, or to beg for
something in the way of cakes or wine. I'll
not have my plans spoiled now. Hist!
what's that ? "

^ ^ UBWRY

UNIVERSITY OF \nXm^

It was a heavier foot this time, and unmistakeable
Gil and a companion had arrived.
Then followed the rustling of the ladder, the
waiting, the signal whistle, and, when the
bridge had been closed. Sir Mark's summons
to surrender.

Lights flashed upon the dark scene as Sir
Mark's command rang out, and Gil saw that
he and his men were far outnumbered.

He stamped his foot impatiently, for,
though he felt no fear of being beaten, the
presence of these men might hinder the
carrying out of his plans.

'^ Surrender, you dog ! " roared Sir Mark
again. '' In the King's name, I say. Shoot
down every man who resists."

A scornful roar of laughter was the
response; and, as the heavy guns of the
period were levelled, Gil's men, lithe and
active as wild cats, leaped at their bearers
with their swords, dashing the guns up, so
that the scattered volley that followed sent

the bullets skyward, while man after man
was knocked down by a blow or the recoil
of the piece.

Then commenced a furious fight; sword
clashed with sword ; there were groans,
oaths, and cries ; and, as Mace's casement
was opened, its occupant gazed down, shuddering
at the hideous, torch-lit scene in the
trampled garden,

^^Be ready with that ladder, Wat," cried
Gil, hoarsely. '' She must be got away now
at any cost. Hah ! there is Sir Mark."

As he uttered the words he sprang at his
rival, who had recognised him at the same
moment by the flickering light of one of the
torches borne by a soldier, who held it on
high as he tried to take aim at Wat Kilby
with a wheel-lock pistol, from beneath Mace's
window.

'^ Surrender! " shouted Sir Mark. *' Quick,
here, men, here ! "

'^ Surrender yourself," roared Gil, as with

a rush he beat aside the other's guard, closed
with him, and forced him down, where ho
lay with GiPs knee at his throat.

Their leader's cry, though, brought half a-
dozen men to his side, and blade in hand
they would have cut down Gil had it not
been for Wat, whose orders had been to stay
there with the ladder. Raising this, he
drove it with a crash against one man, who
had raised his point, and was in the act of
striking another, when Sir Mark recovered
himself sufficiently to get at a dagger, which
he would have plunged into his opponent,
had he not felt himself scorched by a blinding
glare, as he, Gil, and Wat and those by him
were hurled headlong amongst the trampled
bushes, and, before they could realise what
had happened there was a mighty roar, as
if thunder had come from earth instead of
sky, and then gone rolling across the Pool,
to die away in echoes amongst the hills.

CHAPTER V.

HOW THE LOVE PHILTRE Worked

If Mother Goodhugh had stood by while it
was done, Janet the weak would have taken
the decoction placed in her hands ; but,
foolish as the iii was, she had her share of
cunning.

*' If I give it to her and it does make her
love turn to hatred, he must turn to me ; and,
if after all she cares love for Captain Carr,
why even then it may turn right for me.
Does the old thing think I'd take the stuff?
Clever as she be, others be clever too. But
bow shall I give it to her ? "

Janet took the little flask out of her bosom,

wliicli was her hiding-place for particular
things — ribbons, scraps of lace, a scent-bottle
wonderfully like one of Mace's — and looked
at it attentively.

^^A little every day," she said; and the
next morning she poured a portion into a jug
that stood for drinking purposes in her mistress's
room.

That afternoon Mace went up to her bedroom
with a bunch of flowers from the garden,
which she placed in a shallow basin, and the
contents of the jug were used to keep them
alive !

The same evening, finding the jug empty,
Janet refilled it, and again poured in a little
of the contents of the flask.

She had just completed her task when she
heard Mace's step upon the stairs, and in her
haste to replace the stopper of the flask she
let it fall upon the floor, where it broke ; and
she had only time to throw the broken glass
out of the window, and drag a piece of carpet

over the stain on the floor, before her mistress
entered the room.

Janet escaped as soon as possible and
sought refuge in the kitchen, from whence
she stole round to the garden and picked up
the broken bottle, then ran back, throwing
the pieces into the water-race as she hurried
along.

'^ I dare say she will have taken enough,"
she said to herself, ^' and, if she has not, I'll
try no more. I hate myself for doing it.
Poor girl, she looks more as if she was going
to be buried than married."

In fact, Janet's heart was not very deeply
touched, and she would have been ready to
hand over her young affections to anybody a
little more eligible than Master Wat Kilby,
who was rather too old for her taste. During
these busy days, too, there was so nmch to
take her attention, for she had all a girl's
love and excitement in an approaching
wedding.

First and foremost there came a present to
her from Sir Mark in the shape of what was
to her a most handsome dress.

'^ That's for thee, pretty Janet," he said ;
^ ^ and when we come back from our wedding
jaunt I'll bring thee a handsome husband assure
as. I live. One kiss for it," he said ; and
he took it, and another and another. How
many dozens he would have taken it is
impossible to say, only the founder's step
was heard, and Janet fled with her dress by
another way.

"The spell be working somehow," she said
to herself joyously. '' May be he will turn
her over yet, and marry me himself."

She hurried up to her room to inspect her
gown-piece, and smooth her ruffled hair.

^^ Oh, these men, how wicked they be ! "
she cried half-petulantly, as she gazed at her
flushed cheeks in a damp-stained mirror.

^^ I be handsomer than mistress pale-face
down stairs," she cried, giving her head a

toss. ^* Fie on her! why does she not go and
wed with Captain Culverin, and leave me Sir
Mark."

The gown-piece again took her attention,
and she folded it in plants and tucks, and
draped herself in it, ending by doubling it
over and over, and laying it flat beneath her
bed.

^Tll go see her presents now," she said;
and she descended to Mace's room to find the
jug untouched.

'' Perhaps shell never wear these gauds
after all," muttered Janet, as she went to the
dressing-table and examined the presents Sir
Mark had brought, rich jewels some of them,
with laces and ribbons enough for a dozen
weddings ; but the white satin dress hanging
across a chair was the great attraction for
Janet, with its puckers and folds, and great
stomacher dotted with pearls.

^•It be brave!" she cried, as she went
down upon her knees to gaze at it, and lay

portions of the skirt across her arm, or feel
its softness against her cheek.

And so the time glided on till the eve of
the weddings when, pale and dark of eye
with want of sleep, Mace felt that the excitement
was more than she could bear.

It was very terrible, she told herself, and
again and again she asked her conscience
whether she was doing wisely in listening to
Gil's prayers. It was an act of disobedience
to her father, whom she dearly loved, and yet
she felt that she clmig to her lover more.
But even now she would, in obedience to
her father's wishes, have refused Gil and
remained unwed. To be forced, though, to
become the wife of one whom she utterly
detested she felt was impossible, and she knew
that she must go.

She had no one to counsel, none to take
her part ; and she knelt down and sobbed
bitterly as she thought of the mother who
had been taken away so long ago.

Then rising from her knees, quite cain
and peaceful at heart, she sat down in her
sweet-scented old chamber waiting, for she
told herself it was inevitable, and that time
would soften her father's anger, and all be
happiness once more.

*^ He feels it is for my welfare," she said,
'^ but he does not know poor Gil."

The whispered mention of Gil's name
sent a thrill through her, and, with a smile
of hope and love upon her worn, pale face,
she sat dreaming of him, and mentally
praying that no mishap might accompany
their flight.

At last, feeling flushed and hot, she drank
from the jug of water which Janet had left
unchanged.

There was a peculiar taste in it, but her
thoughts were too much occupied to pay
much attention, and, taking her seat by the
window, she sat, watching the darkness

coming on of this the last day in her old
home.

How the old happy hours of the past came
back to torture her with their recollections ;
and now she told herself it would have been
better that she should have died young, in
peace and innocency, ere she knew the
bitter heart-grieving of the present. For
in these last hours her breast was racked by
contending emotions ; the love of parent
fought hard with the stronger, more engrossing
love of the maiden for the man of her
choice, but the latter won.

Agitated as she was, it seemed to her that
she grew feverish and thirsty — a thirst she
turned to the water-vessel more than once
to assuage, but without effect; and at last,
with a curious, excited sensation upon her,
mingled with weariness, she went to the
glass to find that her cheeks were flushed,
and that there was a strange dilated look

about her eyes, whose unusual lustre startled
her.

I have had too little sleep lately," she
said, with a sad smile, as she thought of the
long, restless nights she had passed ; and at
last she threw herself upon the bed, and
closed her eyes, just as a tap was heard
upon the panel of the door.

^^ Come in, Janet," she said, as she unclosed
her eyes to gaze round at the confusion
that reigned with half-packed garments,
and upon a couch her wedding-dress, facing'
her like the flaccid shade of herself lying
upon a bier.

There was something very weird in that
dress, and it seemed to influence her with
thoughts of death which made her shudder.

^^I be come to try on the wedding robe
again, mistress," said Janet. '' I did alter
those strings and that fastening, and now it
will fit you well,"

^' That's kind of you, Janet," said Mace,

drowsily. Thank you for all you have done.
You will think kindly of me when I am gone''

** Why, of course, mistress. But, there,
dear heart alive, don't talk like that. Why
it be as if you was going to be buried. La !
You ought to be as blithe as blithe."

*^ Should you be, Janet?" said Mace.
Oh, my head — my head, it burns — it
burns !''

^* La, mistress, yes ; as joyous as a bird
to wed with so handsome and courtly a man.
Art ill, mistress ?''

Sleepy, Janet, sleepy."

'^ There, then, let's get on the dress, and
see how you look, and then you shall have
a long sleep, and I'll see that no one disturbs
you."

^^No, no," said Mace, hoarsely. '' I must
not sleep, child — I will not sleep. Try on
the dress and go away. I shall sit by the
open window."

La, mistress, thou'lt get the ager-shakes

that come off the Pool. I wouldn't sit by
the open window to-night. Come, get up,
dear, and let me take off your gown. I'll
unlace it, and now we'll have on the beautiful
white robe. Lovely, lovely ! "
And again, '' Lovely, lovely ! "
And then, *^ How beautiful you look ! "
And amidst it all strange feelings of the
brain, her head throbbing and wild imaginings
rushing through her mind. She was
married and clasped in her lover's arms, and
his kisses were showered on her lips, her
veins tingled, a strange thrill ran through
her nerves, but his kisses burned her face,
her eyes, her head. And now it was not
Gil who clasped her in the ecstasy of love,
but Sir Mark, and, in place of burning
passion, she froze, her heart seemed to standstill,
and she was numbed with horror as he
approached his lips to hers. Why did he
laugh so with such a strange, silent, ghastly
laugh ? Why did he press her so tightly to

VOL. III. F

66 SWEET MACE.

his breast ? His arms hurt her, his breast
was bony, and his laugh was lifeless. It
was a frightful grin, and she could not tear
herself away. It was not Sir Mark ; it was
a hideous skeleton, and she made a supreme
effort to rid herself of the terrible vision that
clasped her to its breast.

At last it was gone, and she was dressed
in her bridal robe. She was feverish and
excited, and that was a kind of nightmare
dream. There she was, then, before the big
/ swing mirror, gay in satin and lace, and once
more the exclamations of pleasure fell upon
her ears.

How lovely ! how lovely ! "
And again, *' How beautiful you look ! "
The reflection in the mirror died away,

for her eyes closed. She could not bear to
look upon it longer, and, now that her eyes
were shut, once more came the phantoms of
her troubled, reeling brain. Gil, Sir Mark,
the hideous shape of death, all had her

clasped in their arms in turn. She struggled
in spirit, but her body was motionless ; the
brain was in full action, but muscle and
nerve were inert. She could only lie there
and suffer tortures so horrible that she felt
that if they lasted she must go mad.

Then again she was gazing at herself in
the great mirror, gay with satin and lace,
and once more there was the round of
horrors.

How long was it to last ?

There was a lucid moment when she knew
that lie was seriously ill. Some terrible
ailment had seized her, and then came the
recollection of the water like a flash through
her reeling brain.

Was it poison ?

'^ How beautiful ! It is lovely, lovely,
lovely ! " and there was the vision again of
the satin gown.

I must be going mad," she thought ;
but Janet must not see. I will be firm

F 2

and wait. I must send her away soon. Let
me see," she thought. " Gil will be here at
midnight. I am not too ill to go with him,
and, when once away in peace, I shall soon
be well. How absurd to think of poison.
How beautiful I look. This fever seems to
have given me my colour once again. Poor
fool ! Why should I masquerade like this,
when I am never to wear these things ? It
is time I put them off and sent her away.
My poor head, my poor head ! how it burns
and throbs and reels with pain."

Then again, the wedding with Gil, and
his hot kisses burning her face. No, it was
Sir Mark ; and then again the chilly horror
of being seized by those arms and pressed
nearer, nearer, to that hideous framework of
ghastly bones, while the cold grinning teeth
rested against her lips, and in place of kisses
^ began to tear and rend her. Now it washer
fair young cheek, now her soft bosom ;
and at every contact it was the burning pain

of ice that froze with a touch like heated
iron. She strove to struggle, to call for
help, but it was in vain. The hideous teeth
were now meeting in her forehead, and a
pang of agony ran through her brain.

'' Gil, Gil, help me, help ! " she tried to
say ; and then there was the clash of arms,
the firing of guns, the shouts of contending
men — cries, oaths, shrieks, wails. What was
it ? Was she really mad ? Had her sufferings
robbed her of reason, or was she striving
to rush from the room down the broad
old staircase when that hideous rush of fire,
and that crash of thunder, came to tear her
away ? Was it madness, a dream, or was

it . Her reeling senses seemed to leave

her as she asked herself the final question,
when she was stricken down, even as her
lips uttered the question.

Was it death ?

CHAPTER VI.

HOW GIL BROUGHT THE BRIDE FROM THE
BURNING HOUSE.

For a few moments Gil's men and the
followers of Sir Mark stood appalled by the
effects of the explosion. Fully one-half had
been prostrated by the terrible blast that
had swept the beautiful old garden, cutting
down tree and shrub as level as if with a
knife. Some of the men lay groaning where
they had been cast, burned, wounded, and
disfigured ; while those who were uninjured,
of whichever side, seemed as if by mutual
consent to consider their petty strife at an
end in the face of so awful a catastrophe,

and, sheathing their swords, stood looking at
the ruined house before them, confused and
unmanned by the shock.

For to a man the explosion had so shaken
them that a curious feeling of helplessness
had succeeded to the energy they had displayed,
and no one moved even to render
assistance to the wounded.

Suddenly a loud voice shouted

^^Run, my lads, run! There will be
another explosion directly. It is a plot to
blow up the place."

This seemed to break the spell, and there
was a rush of feet towards the closed bridge,
when the founder's voice arose.

*^ No, no," he cried; "there can be no
other explosion. It was my store ; I thought
it safe ; the powder has all "

He stopped speaking, and reeled and
nearly fell to the earth, for he had received
a blow from a falling beam ; but he recovered
himself sufficiently to point towards

the house in an appealing wa' that no one
understood.

^^ Halt there ! " cried Sir Mark, who now
rose to his feet, from where he had been
thrown, ** follow me some of you, quick,
before it is too late."

He might well add these last words, for,
as the smoke rose like a heavy pall above
the ruined house, it could be seen that, with
the exception of a couple of the gables near
where they stood, the place was shattered
and nearly razed to the ground. There was
a huge hole here, another cavernous rent
there, and, piled above them, beams and
rafters, blackened, smoking, and dotted with
glowing embers, which began to sparkle as
the portion of the house now standing burned
furiously.

There was no need for light, for wood had
entered largely into the construction of the
building, and the powder seemed to have
prepared everything to burn. With a rush

great tongues of fire leaped from the embayment
of the fine old parlour, whose diamond
panes flew crackling out, while the lead in
which they were set trickled down in a
silvery stream. The whole of the parlour
glowed in a few seconds like a furnace, and
directly after the fire sprang forth from the
two rooms above, and then again from the
little window in the pointed gable, which
was soon being licked from gutter to the
copper vane on its summit by the orange
and golden flames.

The rooms on either side rapidly followed,
and soon the two gables that had remained
after the explosion seemed wrapped in fire,
which lit up the unscathed trees, and turned
the lake as if into a pool of blood.

As Sir Mark sprang forward, a dozen men
ran to his side — Gil's men, every one of
them, for his own stood aloof ; but as they
went close up a rush of flame and smoke

drove them back, scathing and scorching
them so that it was impossible to face it.

'^A ladder — a ladder — fetch a ladder!"
cried Sir Mark.

The words were hardly uttered, before a
couple of men picked up that which Wat
Kilby had used as a weapon, and to which
he still tightly clung, as he lay at some little
distance, where he had been cast.

This was dragged from him, and a couple
of men reared it, by Sir Mark's directions,
against the burning casement of Mace's
room.

Seizing the rounds Sir Mark climbed up,
and reached the room, now all aglow, but ashe
felt the scorching flames, which were
already burning the top of the short ladder,
he rapidly descended and stood wringing
his hands, while GiPs men seized poles,
fetched buckets from a shed, and began to
obtain water from the race.

'' It IS impossible ! My poor girl ! What
shall I do ? " moaned Sir Mark.

Then to the men nearest he shouted, his
voice sounding shrill and strange amidst the
roar and flutter of the flames,

'^ There is a lady in yonder — a hundred
golden pounds to the man who fetches her
out."

There was a murmur amongst the little
crowd, but no one stirred, and he repeated
his offer.

Are you men to stand there and see her
burned to death ? " he cried. '^ Two hundred
pounds to the man who saves Mistress Mace
Cobbe."

D -n your two hundred pound," cried

a hoarse voice, as a great gaunt blackened
figure crawled into the glow. '' Up the
ladder, my lads, there be two women there."

^* Old Wat," cried the men, in a loud
chorus of excitement, as the weird looking
figure stretched out its hands, and seemed

to grope blindly towards the ladder, but
rolled down with a groan, utterly unable to
make the attempt, having received some
injury to the hip.

'^ Is there no man here who will try to
save the helpless women ? " cried Sir Mark.
'that's right, my brave lad," he said, as one
of Gil's men took a hatchet from his belt and
ran up the burning ladder.

He seemed to beat back the flames with
his hands, and bravely climbed in at the
window, a roar of cheers following him, ashe
regularly leaped into the burning room.
Then there was a shower of sparks, a rush
of flame, and, to the horror of all present, the
brave fellow was seen to literally roll out of
the parlour casement, blackened and burned,
having fallen at once through the floor to
the room below.

'^ No one can be there and live," he
gasped. ^' Water, boys, water! I am burning
: throw me in," he shrieked ; and one of

his companions deluged him with the contents
of a bucket.

^* It is all over. How horrible — how horrible
! " groaned Sir Mark. ^' Quick lads,
water, dash it in. Who is that?"

He started back almost in fear, as he saw
Gil stride forward, pick up the fallen axe,
and seize the ladder to drag it from the
burning casement.

As he did so he staggered, for he was quite
giddy yet from the blow he had received
when the explosion cast him some twenty
feet away; but he recovered directly, and,
planting the ladder against the next window,
he seemed to regain his strength, and dashed
up axe in hand.

There was a lusty cheer at this, and Sir
Mark gnashed his teeth, as he wondered why
he had not thought of going up to the next
window, where the flames seemed to burn
less furiously, though the next instant they
were pouring out from the shattered window

beneath, and making the long trailing
strands of roses and woodbine writhe and
twine as if in agony, as the flames licked
them up, and then seemed to wreathe themselves
around the figure of Gilbert Carr.

With two vigorous blows, he dashed in
the oaken divisions of the window, and as he
struck the flames leaped into his face, wrapping
round him ; but he seemed to heed
them not, for blow after blow fell, till he
cleared the way, and then, leaving the
burning ladder, he climbed right in, and a
dead silence fell upon all present as he disappeared
amidst the flames and smoke, which
came rolling out more furiously than ever.

No man spoke for a while, as the fire
crackled, and the tiles on the old house slipped,
and fell rattling down. The copper vane
suddenly began to burn in the intense heat
with a vivid blue light like some firework.
The ladder, which had stood out dark against
the flaming windows, gradually burned till

rounds and sides were so much glowing
charcoal, and a dull sense of horror chilled
to inaction the spectators of the gallant
deed.

Suddenly Wat Kilby raised himself up on
his knees, supporting his injured body with
one hand, and lifting the other to wave
above his head.

^' His father's son!" he yelled, as the fire
glistened in his wild eyes and blackened
hairless face, for his grisly beard was scorched
away — *' his father's son — a Carr! —a Carr I
culverin for ever ! Fetch him out brave
boys — a rescue — a rescue ! Forward boys— -
Board ! "

As he yelled out these words, they seemed
to electrify his followers, and with a shout
the crew dashed to the burning house as if
about to plunge in.

There was no hesitation now, not a man
flinched, but, leaping in through the lower
burning window, the ladder fell in so many

glowing fragments amidst the feet of trio
foremost, who disappeared for a few brief
moments, and then re-appeared with Gil
Carr, bearing out through the flames a figure
that seemed to be clad in gold, so glistening
and yellow seemed the satin dress, with its
stomacher of pearls.

The men drew back from him as Gil bore
his burden on towards what had once been
the shady lawn of the garden, and laid it
reverently down, tearing a handkerchief
from his breast to cover the ghastly mutilation
of the face, and then crushing out as he
knelt the smouldering flames and sparks that
had attacked the wedding-dress.

^' Mace, my darling ! " cried Sir Mark,
passionately.

^^Back!" cried Gil, fiercely ; ^^ touch her
not, upon your life''

Sir Mark shrank away, appalled by the
fierce gaze of the man who knelt there upon
one knee, reverently arranging the garments

round the dead, whom he had found comparatively
untouched by the flames, but
pinioned and crushed by a fallen beam. He
heeded not his own sufferings, though those
who stood by could see that the doublet he
wore was falling from his breast in pieces ;
that the leather of his belt and boots had
crumpled up in the intense heat ; and that
his hands and face were horribly scorched.

** Let me see her, let me see her," cried a
harsh voice, and the little crowd parted tolet
Wat Kilby crawl forward. ^' Is it Janet?.
Tell me, brave boys, is it my lass ? The
cursed powder has taken away my sight.
Tell me, brave boys, is it my little, bright,
tricksy Janet ? ''

'^ No, no, no," moaned a piteous voice ;
"it is my child — my darling child. Oh,
Mace, Mace, joy of my poor old heart, has
it come to this ? "

There was so piteous an appeal in these
words — so intense, so terrible was the suff

III. G

fering they betokened — that the men drew
back as the founder staggered to the side of
the dead, let himself fall upon his knees, and
there crouched with his hands clasped together
in his lap, gazing helplessly down.

The remains of the Pool-house burned
brightly still ; the flames licked up rafter and
beam ; the red-hot tiles cracked and splintered
and fell with a crash from time to
time, sending up a whirlwind of sparks ; and
the blaze that lit up the Pool and forest far
and near made plain, as if seen by day, the
piteous group on the old lawn. But no one
heeded the fire now, or dreamed of there
being danger of the flying embers setting
light to one or other of the powder sheds.
Every thought was turned to the bereaved
father ; and as Sir Mark stood there, among
his followers and the work people, one of the
few unscathed by the fire, he found himself,
bridegroom-elect although he had been, a
person apparently of very secondary import,

for next to Jeremiah Cobbe men and women
gazed upon Gil Carr.

Just then the founder raised one of his
trembling hands and stretched it out to
reach the kerchief Gil had so lovingly placed
over the* mutilated face, but the latter
stayed him.

'' No, no," he said in a low voice, '' for
your own sake no. Let us remember our
darling as she was."

The old man's hand closed upon the
scorched palm, and then he laid the other
upon it and held it, gazing piteously in the
other's face.

'^ Right, Gil'' he said in a cracked voice.
^ ^ Right ! Let us remember our darling as
she was."

There was a pause here, and a beam fell
in the burning house, causing a whirlwind
of sparks to rise.

^^ Forgive me, Gil," continued the founder.
^' Even if this hand did slay Abel Churr, the

G 2

fire has purged it. Brave boy — brave boy!
I was very hard on both ! "

'^ Over her who lies here I swear I am
innocent of that man's blood," said Gil
softly; and then in a lower tone, ^^ My darling
— my darling — you believed my words."

'' And so do I, Gil," cried the old man
piteously. '' Oh, my child, my child! Godin
heaven, how have I sinned that I should
suffer this ? "

A shudder ran through the crowd, so wild
and piercing suddenly rose the old man's
upbraiding cry, while like an echo to his
words came a shrill, harsh voice from the
direction of the ruins, where, on a heap of
smouldering wood and stones, stood Mother
Goodhugh, like a black silhouette against
the flames.

'^ Woe to the wicked house ! Woe to the
maker of deadly grains ! Woe to the caster
of cannon and culverin and gun ! "

There was a dead silence, and then, amidst

the crackling of the blazing wood and the
fluttering of the flames, rose once more the
voice of Mother Goodhugh, as she gesticulated
and waved her stick.

^^ What did I say? What did I foretell
against this evil man and his house? Did I
not cry, it was cursed, and that the curse
would fall ? Look at the wicked place !
And now once more I raise up my voice,
and tell thee that a curse will fall on him or
her who touches stick or stone to try and
raise it up again. Let it burn — let it bQ
level with the earth, and become a refuge
for snakes and toads and unclean things.
Let no man try to build it up, or be he cursed
as well."

Silence, hag ! " cried Sir Mark passionately.


'' Nay," she cried, ^* I will not hold my
peace. Go thou, young man, and rejoice
that thou art saved from tomorrow — saved
from wedding to the daughter of one whom

I had cursed. Who doubts the power of
Mother Goodhugh now? Speak, Jeremiah
Cobbe, did I not foretell the ruin of thy
house ? "

'^ My poor child. My little love — where
are thy pretty sayings now, where thy
prattling ways? Little Mace — pretty little
Mace ! How old is she to-day, mother ?" said
the founder, gazing at vacancy, with a smile,
for the old woman's words had not reached
his ears. ^' Six, eh ? six. Why what a great
age for my darling to have grown. Gil, my
boy, God bless thee, lad ! You have grown
stout and well again, and I look to thee to
protect my little one from harm. There,
you must love her; take thy little sister;
keep her from the pool, and mind her
pretty little feet don't stray near the waterside.
Hey, boy, did'st ever see such bonny
little feet, so white and pink, and pretty, it
seems a sin to put them into leather shoes.
Be good to her, my brave stout lad, and

some day — who knows ? — thou may'st perhaps
like to make her thy own little wife.
If thou dost, ha, ha, ha! she shall not disgrace
thee, boy, for she shall be a very lady
in her way."

He looked round with a vacant smile, and
nodded pleasantly at Gril.

'^ Cursed ! I tell thee — cursed ! " cried
Mother Goodhugh. *^ It has been a long time
coming, but it has come at length. Look how
it smokes and burns. Didst hear the noise
the devilish powder made ? Ha ! ha ! ha !
That which he made to destroy others has
destroyed himself. Burn, flames, burn ! "
she cried, waving her stick ; '' burn wood
and stones, and burn until all is level with
the dust ! "

The crowd stood round her at a respectful
distance listening to her ravings, and had
she been the wise woman she professed to
be, she would have known where to stop and
beat a hasty retreat, with a great increase,

among the simple people, to her reputation.
But it was not to be.

Just then, borne in a lumbering carriage
that this time had braved all the ruts, up
came Sir Thomas Beckley, with Mistress
Anne and Master Peasegood.

The old woman caught sight of Anne
Beckley as she descended hastily from the
carriage, and approached her with a malicious,
triumphant look.

Just then the jealous girl caught sight of
the prostrate body in its wedding dress, and
seemed petrified.

'^ What did I say — what did I say?" cried
a voice behind her, and turning she encountered
Mother Goodhugh's malignant eyes.

This was too much for Anne, who crept
shuddering away, when the burning house,
the kneeling figure by the dead, the whole
scene seemed to swim round her, and she
would have fallen but for Sir Mark, who
caught her in his arms.

^^ Oh, it is too dreadful — too dreadful ! "
she murmured, and closed her eyes.

'^ Master Peasegood, will you take him to
your house?" said Gril. ^^ Poor soul! the
shock has been too heavy for his brain."

'' Eh ! Go with Master Peasegood ? Yes,"
said the founder smiling. '^ Gil, brave lad,
you'll see that my darling does not come to
harm."

Gil bowed his head, and as the founder
rose from his knees smiling and ready to
accompany the parson, down whose cheeks
the great tears coursed, Mother Goodhugh
climbed on a heap of stones, waving her
hands wildly as she saw her enemy pass.

'^ Woe to him ; woe to his house ! " she
shrieked excitedly.

Silence that vile witch's mouth," cried
Sir Thomas.

** A witch, a witch!" cried a voice; and
W at . Kilby, who had dragged himself up
once more upon his hands and knees, waved

one hand again towards the burning ruins,
which had just burst forth into fiercer
flames.

'^ A witch — a witch ! " he yelled, " away
with her, and let her burn."

A shout rose from Sir Mark's followers,
and, with a rush, they surrounded the old
woman, who struck at them with her stick as
she was seized. Then, in spite of her shrieks
and appeals, she was borne towards the
burning ruins.

The burning of a witch was so congenial
an occupation, that, failing a great triumph
over Gil Carr's crew, the followers of Sir
Mark took to their task with such gusto that
in another minute Mother Goodhugh would
have been hurled into the flames.

It was in Anne Beckley's power to save
her by a quick appeal to Sir Mark ; but she
hesitated, for the thought flashed across her
mind that. Mother Goodhugh dead, she would
carry with her many secrets, and, above all,

the greatest one, of how this terrible affair
had been brought about. It might have been
accident ; but she had her doubts.

Sir Thomas looked on in puzzled guise.
He knew he ought to do or say something,
but without his clerk he was generally at sea,
while Master Peasegood, who might have
given him good advice, had gone off, leading
the stricken father to his home.

It was Gil who interfered, and none too
soon.

Springing up from where he had knelt on
one knee, he threw himself before the would-be
executioners.

^' Shame on you ! " he cried ; and the
men stopped short, while Mother Good-hugh
struggled from them to throw herself
on the earth and cling to Gigs knees.

save, oh, save me!" she shrieked; ^^I
cannot die."

What are you, that you interfere ? " cried
one of the men.

^^ A witch — a witch — to the flames," cried
Wat Kilby, in his harsh voice.

^^ Silence, old dog ! " roared Gil.

^' In with her, lads ! " cried the first of the
men, seizing Mother Goodhugh by the
shoulder ; but, as she shrieked with horror,
the man went down from a blow given by
Gil's clenched hand, which the next moment
sought his sword, to find it gone.

With a shout, the others closed round
Gil, but this roused his own followers, who
ran u^) and dragged Mother Goodhugh away.
They faced Sir Mark's men, and, weapons
being drawn, there was an imminent risk
of a renewal of the fight, when Sir Thomas's
fat voice was heard, sounding weak and
tremulous, for the baronet was terribly
alarmed.

^^ Stop ! my good men," he cried ; ^^you
must not burn her until she has been tried.
A woman suspected of witchcraft must — er
er— must — er — er— be taken before — er —

er — the nearest justice of the peace— er—er
er — that is me, you see, and "

'^ Escape without a word," whispered Gil
to the old woman. '^ I'll cover your flight."

^' Bless thee for "

Keep thy blessings and thy curses' said
Gil, sternly. '' Go."

Mother Goodhugh shrank trembling away,
the village people and the workers opening
to let her pass, while, when Sir Mark's men
advanced to try and retake her, they were
met by the swords of Gil's crew.

Don't ; pray don't let them fight,"
whispered Anne in agony.

Is this a seemly time for a fresh encounter,
Sir Mark?" said Gil.

Not if you give yourself up," was the reply .

I give up — to you ?" said Gil. '* Let who
interferes with me and my men do so at
his peril. This way, my lads," he cried.
'' There is a cloak behind yon shed. It was
meant for thee, sweet," he whispered, as he

beat down over the dead, ''to keep thee
from the cold ; " and upon its being brought
the lifeless figure, in its wedding-dress, was
reverently lifted and borne into Tom
Croftly's house.

Sir Mark concluded to engage in no
further encounter that night, telling himself
that he could easily take Gil another time.
So, calling off his men, he allowed him to
superintend the removing of the lifeless girl,
Anne Beckley now following trembling into
the cottage, awe stricken as she was at being
in the presence of death, while, when at
last day broke and the bright sun rose, it
was upon a heap of ashes smouldering and
smoking still. Where the pleasant old garden
had been alive with verdure, teeming
fruit-trees, and autumn flowers, was a space
of trampled blackened soil, while for fifty
yards round the trees had been scorched and
stripped not only of their leaves, but of every
minor twig and spray.

Sir Mark scowled angrily again and again
at Gil, and his men gave the sailors many
a menacing look, as they took upon themselves
the duty of keeping watch by the
house where the poor girl lay.

It was Gil's men, too, who tried to search
the ashes of the Gabled House for the remains
of poor Janet, the only other occupant
of the building ; but the task was given
up, on its being found that the intense heat
had fused metal, and reduced the stones
so that they crumbled at the touch.

CHAPTER VII.

HOW MASTER PEASEGOOD PREACHED WISDOM.

Gil's ship, with Father Brisdone on board,
after waiting in vain for its freight, grounded
as the tide went down. The old priest, who
had been on deck, leaning over the bulwarks
gazing up the river for the boat that did not
come, had been startled by a great flash of
light which suddenly shot up above the hills,
and then by a heavy clap as of thunder,
followed shortly by a fierce glow in the sky,
all of which told him only too plainly of
some terrible catastrophe at the powder-works.


He was not surprised, then, that the boat
did not arrive till the long, weary night had

passed away, and the bright sun shone once
more upon the dancing waters, but even then
noon was fast approaching before there was
the measured dip of oars, and the boat came
round a wooded point.

He looked earnestly for Mace, but, not
seeing her, he sighed.

My eyes fail me a good deal now," he
said ; and, shading them with his hand, he
stood watching till, as the boat neared the
ship, he could see that she had four men
lying in the stern sheets, and he concluded
that there had been an encounter.

A bad augur," he said, sadly ; *' bloodshed
on the eve of a wedding. Poor boy
though, there seems no chance of a wedding,
for he has not won his love."

His hands trembled as he stood at the
gangway, while the boat was run up to the
side and Gil painfully climbed on board.

Failed, my son?" cried Father Brisdone
and here he stopped short as he saw the

VOL. III. H

terrible look of anguish in the young man's
eyes.

'' Help my poor lads, father," he said
sadly. '^ They have been lying hurt these
many hours."

One by one four injured men were hoisted
on board, and laid beneath the shelter of a
sail, while Gil and the father attended to
their injuries with rough but sensible surgery.
There was a severe sword-wound and plenty
of terrible burns, but the worst sufferer was
poor Wat Kilby, whose face was blackened
by the explosion, hair and beard burned o£f,
and his thigh-bone broken.

He was in a high fever and wandering
when slung on board, turning angrily upon
those who had helped him.

'* Don't I tell you the poor lass is burning*'
he cried. '' This is your doing, skippers''
he moaned. '' You were always against
it, and now you leave the poor lass to burn,
and keep me here. Father, this is the boy I

watched over and brought up, and taught.
This be the way he treats me now I am in
trouble."

It was with great difficulty that they
could keep the poor old fellow sufficiently
quiet to enable them to perform the necessary
bandaging, but at last he sank into
the heavy sleep of exhaustion ; and Gil,
having satisfied himself that his injured men
were cared for, saw to his own burns, gave
orders for the ship to be floated up to her
old berth on the next tide, and then returned
to the Pool.

For the next seven days he was almost
constantly at Roehurst, in company with the
stricken father, whom affliction seemed to
have turned back to him as his only friend ;
and together they hung about the ruins,
which still smouldered slightly, and crumbled
more and more into a shapeless heap, overhung
by a few masses of tottering wall.

Gil would have tried to persuade the old

h2

man to leave the spot, but that it had so
terrible a fascination for him as well, and
together they would sit hour after hour
gazing at the ruins, and rebuilding the place
mentally and occupying it as of old.

The people of the sparsely inhabited district
came to gaze at the wreck, and from
far and near they gathered together two days
after the fire, to see Gil's men carry the
flower-sprinkled bier from Croftly's house to
the little rustic churchyard two miles away,
the men taking it in turns to bear her,
four and four about. The place was
densely crowded, thinly populated as was the
country there, to see Gil Carr and the weak,
broken founder, who seemed to have aged in
one night to a venerable old man, walk hand
in hand behind, and stand bareheaded while
Master Peasegood read, and sobbed, and
read, and finally letting fall his book, went
down upon his knees in the soft earth, and
prayed beside the grave.

Sir Mark chafed more and more, but it
was in vain. He was to have been chief
actor in another scene ; here he was completely
set aside again, and Gil Carr had
resumed his place.

Fortunately for Sir Mark, his old acquaintance
Sir Thomas Beckley came forward
to offer his hospitality, and he took up
his abode with him, feeling that he could
not leave the place with his task undone,
and in a bitter mood he received the attempts
at consolation offered to him by Anne, who,
however, always kept very much aloof,
playing the part of the injured woman, but
promising herself a sharp revenge, if ever
the King's messenger should again lay siege
unto her heart.

Up to the day of the funeral the founder
had been almost childish from the effects of
the shock ; but after that he seemed to have
recovered himself, though he looked aged and
bent, and changed to a remarkable degree.

^' I was very hard upon you, Gil," he said
to him one evening, as they stood leaning
against one of the posts that had helped to
support the swing bridge now completely
swept away, and whose place was occupied
by a couple of stout planks laid across
the race. '^ I was very hard upon you, my
lad, but, though I made that affair of Abel
Churr's an excuse, I don't think I believed
at heart that you did away with the poor
wandering wretch."

Gil looked at him sadly, and bowed his
head without speaking.

'^ What are you going to do now, my
lad ?" continued the founder, gazing at him
with a yearning look as one his lost child
had loved.

To do ?" said Gil, in a low hopeless
tone, ^' to do ? What is there left to do, sir,
but die ?"

^* Hush, my lad'' said the founder, laying
a trembling hand upon the young man's

arm ; " that is for me to say. I am old and
stricken : the storm has torn one great
branch from the trunk, and the old tree will
slowly wither and die. You are young yet,
and hope will come to you again as time
goes on."

'^ Hush, for God's sake, hush ! " cried Gil,
turning upon him almost fiercely ; then,
gazing round him in the gathering gloom of
the evening, he let himself sink upon his
knees lower and lower, with his hands covering
his face, as for the first time in the solitude
of that blasted home he gave full
vent to the pent-up agony that for day.
and days he had striven to hide.

Hope'' he groaned, '' hope ?" as his
broad shoulders heaved and the despairing
sobs tore their way from his weary breast.
*^ He does not know what she was to me —
he cannot tell how I loved her. Mace, Mace,
my darling, would to God I were lying by
thy side ! "

It had grown quite dark now, and the
founder sank upon his knees in the black
ashes to lay his hands upon the young man's
head.

'' Gil, my son," he whispered hoarsely,
forgive me, for I never knew your heart
till now. In her name I ask you to forgive
me for the wrong I would have done you
both in tearing you apart. I thought I was
doing right, but I am punished for my
fault."

^^ Forgive you!" groaned Gil, who, for
the first time in his life, was quite unmanned.
'^ Yes, I forgive you, if there is aught to
forgive."

He pressed the old man's hand, as he rose
after a time, weak and desolate, to sit down
upon one of the stones cast from the main
building by the blast. Some distance away
a couple of windows shed their feeble light,
as if they were signals to Mace to open her
casement once again, and a groan rose to

Gil's lips as he thought of the past. Then,
like a wandering spirit, a white, filmy-looking
owl swept by them, turned and came
back once more, as if attracted by the
blackened ruins, glided to and fro for a few
minutes, and it seemed to the two men that
it shrieked faintly just over the very centre
of the ruined house before it glided away.

Gil sat watching the bird in a dreamy,
hopeless way, and, as he gazed through the
darkness, he felt that the place would become
the home of such creatures. •

He was aroused from his reverie by the
founder.

'^ How did it happen, Gil ? " he said.

He spoke in a low, hoarse voice, but his
words sounded very plain in the silence of
the autumn even.

'^ How did it happen ? " said Gil, repeating
his words.

^^ Yes, my boy, tell me all. I cannot
believe that God would make that old woman

with her curses his instrument to punish

me."

'' I have little to tell," said Gil. ^^ saw
our darling again and again, begging that
she would go with me ; but she refused till
she found it hopeless to move you, and that
the wedding was to be."

'^ Yes, yes — go on," groaned the founder.

Then she consented, and I made my
plans."

^^Yes, I see," replied the founder, '^ you
were there with your men, and Sir Mark
felt sure that you were coming. But yours
was a mad revenge on him, and meant ruin
and destruction to all."

'^ I do not understand you," said Gil,
quietly.

'^ Did you think by blowing down part of
the place to get her away in the confusion?"

"Blow down? The place?" said Gil.
'' We had not a charge of powder with us. I
left it all on board."

Then it was the store below caught
first," said the founder, musingly ; " but how
—how ? "

^' I cannot tell," said Gil.

^^ Wat Kilby," exclaimed the founder,
jumping at a cause for the terrible disaster ;
^^he was smoking his tobacco by the entry,
and must have thrown down the burning
pipe."

^^ Nay, he did not smoke; he was by my
side bearing a ladder."

*' Are you speaking frankly to me, Gil ? ^
said the founder. ^^I prithee keep nothing
back."

^^ Can you speak to me like that ? " replied
Gil, in a grave, reproachful tone. '^ Master
Cobbe, I have kept nothing back; I have
added nothing to my story ; I have only left
out that there was the priest awaiting onboard
of my ship, to be our darling's companion
until we were made man and wife."

«^ Forgive me, Gil," said the founder. " I

know now that you are keeping nothing
back. But how could it have happened ? "

^^A shot from one of Sir Mark's men's
pieces must have gone through to your store
of powder," said Gil. " They did fire, but
my men struck their pieces aside."

The founder accepted this theory, and they
sat in silence for a few moments, till they
were interrupted by the approach of a great,
dark figure, who seemed at last to make
them out.

'^ Ah ! friend Cobbe," it said, in the thick
rich tones of Master Peasegood, '^I was
seeking thee. Come ; the night dew is falling,
and it is time you were safely housed.
Ah ! Gil, my good lad, you here ? "

'eyes," was the curt response. ^* Master
Peasegood, hadst thou but done thy duty by
her who was thy charge, these troubles might
not have been."

'^ Reproach me not, good lad, I was taken
away through Sir Mark's scurvy tricks and

carried up to london. And there I was, day
after day, half prisoner, half free. Sometimes
they'd let me fly a little bit, like a
bird with a string at its leg. Other times
they'd keep me in, and never a word could
I get to know of my offence."

'' Not a legal prisoner, then ? "

'^ Nay, lad, not at all. Though, had I
tried to flee I had been tied fast enough, I'll
warrant. I took advantage of my freedom
to see St. Paul's, and should be sorry to
preach there. I bought me though, as I .
had my money with me and the chance was
good, six yards of cloth in Paul's churchyard
to make me a goodly cloak — four
pounds sixteen it cost me — and seven yards
of calamanko for a cassock ; one pound four
and sixpence that, besides a pound for a
new hat, and six shillings for a lutestring
hood for Mistress Hilberry. I lightened my
pocket, Gil, but I was heavy enough at
heart."

Gil nodded.

I grew so hot of blood and angry at last
with the way they kept me in, and the too
free use I made of the most villainous ale,
Master Cobbe, I ever put to my lips, that
had I not been blooded freely by a chirurgeon,
I should have been ill. It was not
the proper time — the haemeroyal time,
though close upon the full, but I let him
take a good ten ounces from my veins, and
felt a better man."

'^ It would have been better, Master Pease-good,
had you been here."

'' True, lad, but I was not my own ruler.
That Sir Mark never trusted me. I had
hard work to get free again, and hurried
down to get to our darling's side. You saw
me when I came — that night ? Sir Thomas
Beckley overtook me, and he brought me
on."

Gil bent his head, and held out his hand,
which the other pressed.

^' When do you sail again ? " said the
parson.

*'I sail again? Maybe never' said Gil.
^^ Why should I sail?"

*' To give thyself occupation — work— toil-weary
evening and restful night. Up, man,
and work. Bear thy load bravely till Heaven
send the soft touch of time to make it lighter.
Thou art young ; thy ship waits. Go across
the sea and do thy work. This is no place
for thee."

'why do you interfere with me, Master
Peasegood ? " cried Gil, testily. '^ I am none
of thy followers."

Nay, my lad, thou art not ; but I give
thee good advice that my lips seemed urged
to speak. Go and toil, and sit not down
sobbing like a fretful child."

'* Man, you would madden me if I listened,"
cried Gil.

Nay, but thou shalt listen," said Master
Peasegood, '* and I will quell thy madness.

Thou hast received one terrible loss like a
man ; I would not have thee do it like a
woman. Then, too, Master Cobbe, when are
these fires to be relit, and the wreathing curls
of smoke to rise from each furnace chimney
? "

"Never," said the founder sadly, ^'my
energy has gone, and I am spent."

^^Tut, tut, man; fie!"

^' What have I to live for ? " cried the
founder, as angry now as Gril.

'^ Not for thyself," cried Master Pease-good.
'' Not both of ye to indulge a moping
selfish regret, but for others — for the memory
of one dead. Tut ! man, those do not pay most
respect to their dead who sit and sigh, and
groan, and work themselves into fevers. Gril
Carr, thy men call for thee to lead them in
some seafaring adventure. Jeremiah Cobbe,
thou hast got together here some fifty souls
workmen, their wives, and the children
they have begotten. Thou didst bring them

to do thy work, and now the furnaces are
cold, the busy wheel lias ceased to turn, and
thy workmen lean against the doorposts, and
idle, and get out of trim. Come, come ! up,
and be doing."

For whom ? " cried the founder angrily,
'' for whom should I toil ? "

"' Not for thyself, but for thy people. Nay,
nay ! don't take it ill, and think me unfeeling.
To both of you I say it is your duty,
and, in the name of yon sweet girl whom we
all so dearly loved, I say keep her memory-green
in your heart of hearts, but cease
unmanly repining against fate."

^*Ah! Master Peasegood," said the founder
more gently, ^^ thou hast never been a
father."

^' Had I been sweet Mace's father could I
have loved her better, Jeremiah Cobbe ?
Have not mine eyes oft filled with tears at
the memory of her sweet face ; has not my
voice choked, and have not my words failed

VOL. JII. T

when I have tried to speak, Gil Carr ? Tut,
man, give me credit for loving her as well.
Thou hast felt sore against me because I
tried to kee23 you two apart ; but why was it,
Gil, why was it ? Had I not seen that which
made me think thou would'st prove a faithless
lover to her, poor child. Give me your
hand, man, my love for her was different to
thine, but it was quite as deep."

Gil's hand was laid in the heavy palm of
the parson of Roehurst, and they joined in a
close firm grip without another word.

'^ When shall these fires be going again,
Master Cobbe," continued the parson ; "when
shall the busy wheel turn plashing round ?
Come, come, promise me that thy mourning
shall not be quite out of bounds."

The founder had turned his back, and remained
gazing away from them at the
blackened heap.

'^ You will be up and doing, will you not,
Master Cobbe ? " continued the parson.

urging him on. ** Come : for thy child's
sake. Would'st have this place left a ruin ?
Come, promise me thou wilt."

A deep sigh seemed to tear itself from the
founder's breast, and he turned to gaze in
the direction of his works.

^' Thou art right, parson," he said; 'sit is
not fair that the workmen I brought here to
feed and furnish with hard labour should
suffer for my sake. The fires shall be lit
again."

'^ Ay, that's well," said Master Peasegood
earnestly. '^ It will be glad news for many
a heart. Then I shall see the axe busy
again as the leaves fall, and the glow of the
charcoal fire in the woods; and meantime
thy men will delve for iron, and the furnaces
go roaring on. Is it not so ? "

eyes."

^' Bravely spoken, brave heart," said
Master Peasegood ; ^' and thou, Gil Carr, off
to thy ship once more, and bear away her

i2

freight. Come back to us laden with the
pale yellow brimstone and the grey-white
salt. Tut, tut, tut, of what am I speaking ? "
he muttered, as Gil shuddered. 'you will
go, my brave lad, eh ? "

'' I suppose so : yes," said Gil slowly ; and
the parson laid his hand upon the founder's
shoulder once more.

'' And the dear old house. Master Cobbe ?
There is sandstone waiting in the quarry to
be borne here, and thou hast oaken timber
enough cut to build it up. When wilt begin
to repair thy loss ? "

Never," cried the founder fiercely.
'' Parson Peasegood, I'll work and toil and
invent and strive day and night to keep
things going here, but it is for others' sake,
not mine."

'' Nay, nay, but the house must be restored."


'' Never," cried the founder ; *' never,
Master Peasegood ; never, Gil Carr. I care

nothing for the words of that reviling old
woman and her curses. Punishments come
from Heaven, not from Hell, and, if she bea
witch, 'tis devil's work she does ; but no
hand shall touch yon heap, neither stone nor
ash shall be disturbed. The flowers may
spring up again, and the grass will grow,
but to touch it would be to me like disturbing
my door child's grave. Our dear
old home died with my darling. Let them
rest."

He turned away and walked firmly across
the planks towards the lane where Tom
Croftly's cottage stood, followed by the
parson and Gil, who stepped back as the
founder rapped upon the cottage door.

'^ Tom," he said, as the door was opened,
and the light of a rush candle shone upon
his deeply-lined face, '^ go round to the men
and bid them light the big furnace in the
morning, and you see about the mixing up
of another batch of powder."

'' Hurray, master," cried the man. " Give
me my list, wife. Dal me ! but that's good
news again."

'' Thou'lt go on making powder again —
so soon ? " said Master Peasegood, as the
fonder joined them, and they went down
the lane.

'^ Yes," said the founder firmly. " Gil,
when thou com'st back, my lad, there will
be some score barrels of the best and
strongest make. I want to show people that
an old hag's curses are as light as wind."

'^ Ay, and that a bad mishap is not to betaken
as a judgment, because a would-be
soothsayer says 'tis so'' cried Master Pease-good.
" Thought right. Master Cobbe. I
thank Heaven I spoke to you both as
bravely as I did, for my heart misgave me
all the while."

The next morning the smoke rolled up
once more from the furnace chimney. The
great wheel turned and splashed as it shed

showers of silver from its broad paddles and
spokes ; blackened men bore baskets of soft
dogwood charcoal to be gromid, and others
shovelled up the pale yellow sulphur and the
crystals of potash for mixing into powder
once again. Two heavy tumbrils jolted and
blundered down the cinder-made lane to
fetch great loads of ironstone from the pits
in the woods whence it was dug, and then
fierce furnaces were charged with layers of
ore and charcoal ready for smelting, while
the horses tugged at their loads in answer
to the uncouth cries of the men. It was as
if the people of Roehurst had awakened
from sleep, and all were rejoicing in the
gladsome feeling of being once more at
work after their enforced idleness, the
change acting like a spur. There was
shouting over the various works, and now
and then some one burst forth into a song,
some doleful love-ditty about a sweet 3"0ung
maiden, sung in a minor keys.

Tom Croftly was in his clement once
more, and after seeing the furnaces started
and the men preparing the next batch of
powder, he anxiously set his colliers to work
to get him more coal.

It was no sending down a set of blackened
miners with their Davy lamps crowding a
cage that dropped slowly into the gas and
choke-damp charged bowels of the earth,
but the superintending of couples of men
who attacked some cords of wood — long,
low stockings of the lopping of the trees
cut down the previous winter — and, clearing
out a circular space, throwing out the earth
all round, they set up a pole in the centre.
Then picking the branches that were some
four feet long, they carefully began to build
them round the centre pole, standing all on
end, and going on round and round till a low
circular stack was built, when the stout
central pole was taken away, the space it
occupied being filled with light brushwood,

which was then set alight ready to communicate
with the wood around, while the
air running in through spaces left at the sides
soon made a swift fire. This, however, was
not allowed to burn fiercely, for old charcoal
powder mixed with dry earth lay ready,
and, after the stack had been covered with '
a litter of weeds, dry grass, and thin twigs
from the fallen trees sufficient to keep it
from falling through, the earth was shovelled
on all over the stack wherever there was a
sign of flame or thin smoke breaking
forth, till at last the flames were stifled
and the thick smoke rose only from the
centre.

^' More loam on," cried Tom Croftly,
who, spade in hand, danced excitedly round
the charcoal pile like a grim black demon
busy over some fiery task, and the men
worked and watched, smothering the flames
with more earth and water till not a gleam
was seen, though all the while the fire was

glowing fiercely and burning out the watery
gases of the wood.

And this went on night and day, the
colliers having a shelter rigged up to keep
off the night-air when they needed rest,
this being called turn and turn, for, should
there be no one ready to throw on shovels-full
of loam when the fire began to work a
way through, the burning would be spoiled.

But there were no burnings spoiled with
Tom Croftly, who, had the men been disposed
to fail, would have been there to catch
them lapsing and take the shovel in hand
himself. So the charcoal burned its time,
glowing slowly in the well-closed heat till
by gentle testing here and there it was
declared to be quite fit, when the earth was
cleared away, water used liberally for quenching,
and the erst flaming heap allowed to
cool, the effect being that the branches of
rough wood were turned into black clinking
metallic-sounding charcoal, hard and brittle

to the touch, and ready to fuse the ironstone
or turn into potent powder in the mill.

Then by slow degrees the traces of the explosion
were softened down, and a new bridge
took the i^lace of that which had been swept
away. A fresh fence, too, was made of riven
oak, and surrounded the ruined garden, so
that Master Peasegood had hopes that the
founder had re-considered his words.

But he had not. The fence was there to
protect the ruins from the feet of straying
cattle. It was not needed to keep off the •
people of the little place, for they gazed
upon it with awe, and whispered that it was
haunted by the dead. And, when Master
Peasegood asked thereof, the founder said his
words stood firm. But this was when weeks
had glided by, and Gil Carr's ship was tossing
far away upon the sea.

CHAPTER VIII.

HOW THE Buckley PULLET RULED THE ROOST.

Dame Beckley was one of the happiest
women under the sun, for she had scarcely
a care. Her sole idea of home management
was obedience, and she obeyed her lord
implicitly. Next to him she yielded no
little show of duty to her daughter, who
ruled her with a rod of iron, which she
changed for one of steel when dealing with
her father.

^' Well, my dear," said the dame, 'speaking
as a woman of the world, I must say I
think it hardly becoming of us to keep Sir
Mark here after his behaviour to us before.
See how he slighted us. Fancy a man who
calls himself a courtier telling a lady of title

that her camomile tea that she has made with
her own hands — it was the number one, my
dear, flavoured with balm — was no better
than poison."

*' Never mind the camomile tea, mother.
I tell you I wish Sir Mark to be persuaded
to stay."

*^Ah, well, my dear, if you wish it, of
course he shall be pressed. I'll tell him that
you insisted — "

smother!"

^' La ! my dear, what have I done now ? "^
cried Dame Beckley. *' Ybu quite startle
me when you stamp your feet and look like
that."

show can you be so foolish, mother?
Go — go, and tell Sir Mark — insist upon his
staying here."

Well, my dear, and very proud he ought
to be, I'm sure. Why, when I was young,
if a gentleman had "

*^ Mother!"

There, there, my dear, I've done. I'll

try and persuade Sir Mark to stay. I'm

sm^e it would do him good, though I don't

want him. It always seems to me that that

terrible explosion sent a regular jar through

what Master Burton, the Queen's chirurgeon,

called the absorbent. If he were my son, I

should certainly make him take a spoonful

of my conserve of elder night and morning,

and drink agrimony tea three times a day.

In cases where there is the slightest touch of

fever there is nothing — bless the girl, why

she has gone, when did she go out of the

room ? "

Mistress Anne had gone away directly
after her last imperious utterance of the
word *^ mother," and walked straight to her
father's room.

She had left Dame Beckley busy over her
herbal, and she now found her father also on

study bent, his book being a kind of magistrates'
vade mecmn of those days on the
subject of witchcraft, and the author his
Majesty the King.

^'What are you reading, father'' she
said, making him start as she came suddenly
behind him and laid her hand upon his
shoulder.

^* His Majesty's book, my dear."

'why?"

'' Well, you see, my dear, it behoves meas
a justice of the peace to be well informed ^
of his Majesty's views respecting the heinous
sin of witchcraft, and to know how I should
comport myself and deal with so foul a
creature in case, at any future time "

'' Mother Goodhugh should be brought
before you ? "

'' Yes, exactly," said the baronet. '' My
dear Anne, I'd give almost everything I
possess for your clear discerning head."

'' Never mind my head, father," she said,

with a half-laugh ; ^^ I want to speak to you
about more important things."

'' Yes, my dear, certainly. But won't
you sit down ? You worry me when you
tower over me so, and threaten, and preach
at me. Do sit down, child, pray."

*' Nay, father, you can hear what I have
to say without my seating myself."

Yes, my dear, " said Sir Thomas,
humbly.

"Let Mother Groodhugh be, father."

'' Eut, my child, she is a most pestiferous
witch."

'' For the present, father. For the present,
let her be."

Well, my dear, if you wish it, of
course "

^^ I do wish it, father."

*' How odd, my dear, that you should
come to say that, when I was studying up
the matter."

^^ I did not come to say that, father," said

Anne; ^* but to speak to you about our
guest."

Yes, my dear, he has been here now six
weeks since that disaster."
Seven weeks, father."
'^ Well, my child, seven weeks if you like ;
and he has sent back those soldier fellows
and his own attendants, and seems to have
settled himself down. I mean to tell him

that he had better "

'' Stay here till his health is quite recovered,
father."

Nay, indeed, my child, after his grossly
neglectful behaviour to us, I feel ready at
any time to send him away."

But you will do no such thing, father.
Sir Mark is your guest, and an important
officer of his Majesty."

An' if he had not been I should very

soon "

^' Your good treatment of so important a
gentleman may mean something in the

VOL. III. . K

future. It is always well, father, to have
friends at Court."

^' Yes, yes, my child, but to leave us in so
scurvy a way, and take up his abode with
old Cobbe."

'^ That has nothing to do with the matter,
father. Ask him to stay."

'' But, Anne, my child."

Father, I insist upon your forcing him
to stay."

Force'' said Sir Thomas ; ^^ah, there'll
be no need of that. The job will be to
force him to go. But surely, child, thou'lt
never think of setting thy cap at him after
his engagement with the founder's child ? "

^' I? Set my cap ! Oh, father," she cried,
with a weak giggle, '^ that is too good. I
absolutely hate him."

^' Then I'll tell him we wish him "

*' To stay as long as he can, father. Goat
once."

But, my dear, he is going tomorrow.

He told me so when he was on his way to
the moat to fish, and I told him I was glad
to hear it."

You told him that, father ? " cried Anne,
with flashing eyes.

'^ Indeed I did," said Sir Thomas.
*' Then go at once," cried Anne, imperiously,
'^ and bid him stay."

** But it will be like eating my words, my
child."

'^ Go eat them, then," cried the girl ;
'^ and quickly. Say that you were but
jesting."

^^ And that you specially wished "

'' No, father. Are you mad ? Say what
thou wilt, and canst ; but mind this — Sir
Mark must stay."

Sir Thomas grumbled, but he had to go,
and he went, and very easily persuaded Sir
Mark to give up his project of leaving the
Moat next day, and so it came about that
about an hour later, when Mistress Anne was

k2

wandering, book in hand, in the pleasance,
beneath the sun-bleached trees, where the soft
turf was dappled with sunshine and shade,
she accidently came upon Sir Mark, moody
and thoughtful, busy over his favourite occupation
of trying to persuade one of the
ancient carp in the moat to swallow a hook
concealed in a lump of paste, a lure of which
the said carp fought exceedingly shy.

If Sir Mark had been told a month before
that he would become an angler — one of
those patient beings who go and seat themselves
on the banks of a piece of water and
wait till a fish chooses to touch their bait —
he would have laughed them to scorn.

All the same, though, he had gone to Sir
Thomas Beckley's, very much shocked at
the sudden termination of his matrimonial
project, and had taken to his bed, where he
stayed some days.

He told himself that he was heart-broken ;
that he would never look upon woman's face

again; that he would pay a pilgrimage
yearly to Mace's grave, and live and die a
heart-broken anchorite.

On the sixth day he arose and wrote a
despatch concerning the state of Jeremiah
Cobbe's manufactures, retiring certain proposals
that he had made concerning the
supply of guns and powder to his Majesty's
forces. Later on he found that it would not
be necessary to seize on Captain Carr, and
later still followed the news that Gil had left
those parts.

On the hearing of this he told himself that
he could give full vent to his sorrow, which
he did, taking at the same time a good deal
of nutriment to counterbalance his sighs and
tears.

Then, being a satisfactory moping pursuit
for one so cut to the heart, he took to fishing
week after week for the carp in the great
moat ; and after, on this particular day,
trying in vain for one particularly heavy

monster, he sighed very loudly — so loudly
that it seemed to be echoed, and, looking
sadly up, his eyes fell upon Mistress Anne,
reading as she walked beneath the trees.

It was but a momentary glance, for she
turned away directly after, and he sighed
again, for he foresaw an interview with
another lady as Dame Beckley came bustling
to his side.

It was one way of showing his grief. A
curious way of showing it ; but every one
has his peculiarities, and Sir Mark elected to
dress himself more gorgeously than of old.

Sable had a prominent place in his costume,
but it was largely relieved with gold
lace and white linen, so that the angler who
rose from his seat on the green bank of the
old moat seemed, from the elegantly plumed
hat to the shining resented shoes, more like
one dressed for a ball or Court gathering
than a man prepared to land the slippery
carp or wriggling eel.

Dame Beckley was very nervous over her
task, but she managed to acquit herself
pretty well, and Sir Mark received her
request that he should stay with a saddened
smile that seemed to say all things were
alike to him now.

If my presence will give you pleasure,
madam," he said with a sigh, ^' I will stay,
though you will find me sorry company, I
fear."

Sir Mark applied a delicate lace handkerchief
to his eyes, and spread around a faint
odour of musk, before applying a fresh lump
of paste to his great hook, and casting it
once more between the water-lilies.

'' Plague on the man," said Dame Beckley
to herself ; " it is not a pleasure to me. I
wish, though," she added musingly, '^ he
would let me administer some of my simples.
I could make him hearty and well."

Sir Mark sighed again when he was left

alone, and began to pity himself for his
sufferings. Somehow he did not feel much
sorrow for the young life that had been so
suddenly cut off. His sorrow was for him
who was to have been a bridegroom, and
who would have succeeded to a goodly
property with his handsome wife. This was
the more important to him, as his little
patrimony had been pretty well squandered,
and his tailor was an extensive creditor who
was eager to be paid.

'^ Yes," he said, " I'll stay. Poor woman,
she wishes it, and, until my brain recovers
from this dreadful shock, I am as well here
as anywhere. Besides, I cannot well go back
till I see my way to obtain some money."

Just then a great carp came slowly sailing
along through the deep clear water, and rose
amongst the stems of the water-lilies, as if to
get a better glance with its big round eyes
at the gorgeous object in black velvet, puffed

with white satin and laced with gold, seated
so patiently upon the bank.

I begin to think now," said Sir Mark,
as he gazed back at the carp, whose great
round golden scales suggested coins, " that I
have made a mistake. I might have had
fair Mistress Anne."

The carp glanced down for a moment
at the lump of paste, and shook its tail
at it, its head being too rigid. The bait
was not to its taste, so it rose higher
and stared with its great round expressionless
eyes, while it gasped with its big
thick lips.

"Two hundred pounds for wedding garments
of my own," he said, gazing back at
the carp. " Twenty-five pounds for that
new sword with the silver ornaments to the
hilt, and five pounds for those white crane's
plumes for my hat ; and now they are useless.
I cannot have them altered to wear
now without spoiling them, and unless I

marry soon that money is all thrown
away."

He sighed again very softly, for he was
exceedingly sorry for himself, as he thought
of the founder's thousands.

** You are a lucky fellow," he continued,
addressing the carp ; ^* you always swim
about clad in golden armour, and pay nothing
for the show. True, I have not paid for
mine, but I suppose that some day I shall be
obliged."

Just then the carp smacked its lips as it
thrust its nose above the water, gave its tail
a lazy flap, and turned itself endwise so as
to face Sir Mark, who gazed full at its fat
gasping mouth, puffy eyes, and generally
inane expression.

^' What becomes of the old Reckless?"
said Sir Mark. '^ One might fancy that they
all went to animate the bodies of the carp in
this moat, for yon fish bears a wondrous

resemblance to the baronet. I wonder

whether he is as well clothed in golden
scales. By all that's holy, here he is."

For, unnoticed on the soft velvety grass,
Sir Thomas Beckley had come slowly up,
looking in effect much more like the great
carp than might have been considered possible,
for his head was so charged with his
daughter's mission that it seemed to force
his mouth open, and his eyes from his head,
while, as he came close up, he gasped two or
three times, opening and shutting his lips
without making a sound.

^^ Fishing, Sir Mark?" he said at last, for
want of something better to say. *^ You have
captured one, I suppose ? "

^^No, Sir Thomas," said his guest with a
sigh. ^^ Faith, an' I do not care to catch the
poor things. I find in angling a change
from dwelling on my sad thoughts. You
never catch them, I suppose ? "

*^ No," was the reply, ^^ T never do. My
father once caught one''

*' Indeed ! " said Sir Mark, yawning, for it
was a peculiarity of Sir Thomas Beckley
that he made everyone with whom he came
into contact yawn.

*^ Yes," continued Sir Thomas. " It was
during a very hot summer, and the moat
was nearly dry. I remember it well''

^^ You seem to have an excellent recollection,
Sir Thomas."

^^I have. Sir Mark, I have," said the
baronet pompously. '^ The great carp had
somehow been left in a tiny pool whence he
could not escape, so my father caught him''

'^ But not with a hook, Sir Thomas — he
did not angle."

'' Marry, sir, but he did. He'd have gone
in after it but for the mud, which would
have sullied his trunk hose and velvet
breeches of murrey colour, so he had a
kitchen meat hook tied to a long pole, and
caught the big fish fairly."

'' Indeed, Sir Thomas ? It must have
been an exciting scene."

** My father was a great man, Sir Mark."

*^ Great and rich. Sir Thomas ? "

'' Very, Sir Mark."

'' Then I have been doing wrong," thought
Sir Mark. ^^ This old idiot here must have
inherited all the old man's money, unless

Did your brothers much resemble

him. Sir Thomas ? " he said aloud.

** Brothers, sir ? I never had a brother.
I was an only child."

'' Indeed ! But I might have known. Sir
Thomas, this is a fitting time to thank you
for your hospitality. I may not have another
chance before I go."

'but you will not go yet. Sir Mark. I
was about to press you to stay with us yet
a while — till your health is more restored.
You look pale and ill as yet. Sir Mark."

"Really, Sir Thomas? Thanks for your

kindly concern, but I must go and try to
recover elsewhere. Your good lady, Dame
Beckley, has been trying to persuade me
to stay, but I think my visit here has been
too long already."

^^ Nay, nay," cried Sir Thomas, '^ we cannot
spare you yet. You must think us very
unfeeling if, after your terrible loss, you are
not almost forced to stay here and recover.
Not a word more. Sir Mark, not a word."

Sir Mark, however, endeavoured to put in
several words, but was checked by his host,
who left him afterwards, strutting away with
a fat smile upon his countenance, and a
belief in his heart that he had been doing
some very hospitable act. Mistress Anne's
commands being for the time entirely forgotten.


*^ That is settled then," said Sir Mark, ashe
kneaded a fresh piece of paste for the
carp. ^' Perhaps in a few weeks I may find

out some way of raising money, that is,
when my heart has grown less sore."

He threw out his bait, and then settled
himself with his back against a tree, to take
a quiet nap, when, in a sheltered nook,
where four huge hawthorns formed a kind
of bower, he once more saw Mistress Anne
busily reading, and, thinking that he ought
to tell her of his intention to stay, he rose to
saunter to her side.

CHAPTER IX.

HOW MASTER PEASEGOOD SAID HIS PRAYERS AND
PAID A VISIT.

There was a deep, singular humming sound
coming from the open window of Master
Peasegood's cottage, and, as this noise passed
through the big cherry-tree, it seemed to be
broken up like a wind through a hedge, and
to be somewhat softened. A stranger would
not have known what it was, unless he had
listened very attentively ; and then he would
have found that it was Master Peasegood
saying his prayers.

' Sum — sum — sum — sum — sum — sum —
sum — sum." It sounded like a gigantic .
Then a few distinct words. Then

^' sum — sum — sum — sum — sum," again ;
and you would hear, '' Lead us not into
temptation ' — sum — sum — sum — especially
with strong ales — sum — sum — sum — sum
sum — oh ! Lord, I am so fleshly and so
fat — sum — sum — sum — sum — I cannot do as
I preach — sum — sum — sum — sum — I am a
sadly hardened and weak man, oh ! Lord —
sum — sum — sum — sum ; but I try to live at
peace, and do to others as I would they should
do unto me — sum — sum — sum — sum — Amen.
Mistress Hilberry, I'm going out. Bring me
my ale."

Master Peasegood was refreshed in mind,
and proceeded to refresh himself in body,
feeling at peace with the whole world, including
Mother Goodhugh and all her
works.

Mistress Hilberry came in, looking sour,
but, as her eyes lit on the jovial face
before her, some of its amiability was reflected
back upon her own ; and, finally, as

VOL. III. L

the stout parson drank up his great jug of
ale with the heartiest of enjoyment, she
almost smiled.

'show thou dost take to thy ale!" she
said.

'^ Ay, how naturally we do take to all bad
habits, Mistress Hilberry ; but a man cannot
be perfect, and the possession of one
wicked little devil may keep out seven devils,
all much worse. I don't think it would be
right to be quite good. Mistress Hilberry, so
I take my ale''

'^ If thou never take nothing worse, master,"
said Mistress Hilberry — who was in a
good temper — ^'thou wilt do;" and she
seized the empty vessel and went out.

'^ Hah ! " sighed Master Peasegood, taking
his pipe off the mantel-piece, and looking at
it ruefully, ^' I talked to her about one little
devil, and, lo ! here is another. That makes
two who possess me, if King Jamie's right.
I'll just have a little of the devilish weed

before I go out. Nay, resist the devil, and
he will flee from thee. Go, little devil, back
to thy place, and let's see what our good
Protestant King does say."

He put back the pipe, and took from his
scantily-furnished shelves a copy of his
Majesty's Counterblast against Tobacco,
seated himself comfortably, and began to
read.

Master Peasegood's countenance was a
study : for what he read did not seem to
agree with him. He frowned, he pursed up
his lips, he nodded, he shook his head ; and
at last, after half-an-hour's study, he dashed
the book down upon the floor, doubled his
fist, and brought it heavily upon the table.

^ ' If this book had not been written by our
sovereign lord, James the First, by the Grace
of God King of Great Britain, France, and
Ireland, as it says in the dedication to my
Bible — and what a thumping lie it is — I
should say that it was the work of one of the

L 2

silliest, most cluiider-licadcd, and bumble-brained
fools who ever walked God's earth.
Tehah, tchah, tcliali, tcliali. I don't believe
the pipe's a little devil after all.

^* Here ! I must be off," he said, with a
sigh. ^^ There's work to be done. I'll go
see my poor old friend Cobbe, and try and
comfort him in his trouble.

^' Nay, I will not ; it will be like running
right into temptation. He'll bring out pipes
and ale.

'^ But he is in trouble sore, and I have
not been of late. I must go —

'' ^ Into temptation.'

^'Nay, it cannot be into temptation, for
it is to do good works. The ale is not a
devil of possession, after all.

'' Mistress Hilberry, I'm going down to
Jeremiah Cobbe, if any one should call."

sall right, master," she said; and the
stout parson rolled out, and sauntered down
to the cottage the founder occupied now.

^'Ah! Master Cobbe," he cried, '^ Fve
been remiss in visiting you these last few
weeks, but I'm glad to see thee look so
well."

swell? Master Peasegood," said the
founder, sadly. ^^Nay, I am not well. Perhaps
I am, though — perhaps I am. I have
been busy lately, very busy. A goodly
store of cannon and ammunition has been
sent off to his Majesty this past week."

'^ Ay, so I hear," said the parson.

'' But sit down, man. Hey, Mrs. Croftly,
bring a flagon of ale and the pipes and tobacco.
Master Peasegood will sit down herein
the garden with me this evening."

^^ That I will," was the hearty response.

A table was placed on one side, and the
two friends sat down, drank heartily to one
another, and then filled, lit their pipes, and
smoked in silence for awhile."

There's a nice view from here, Master
Cobbe," said the parson at last.

^^ Ay, there is," said the founder ; and a
longing painful look came upon his deeply-lined
face, as he thrust back his rough, white
hair and sighed.

A very pretty view. You like this
spot ? "

^^ Yes," said the founder, slowly, as he
pointed with the stem of his little pipe to an
opening in the forest beyond the ruins
of the Pool-house. '* Do you see yon patch
of rock where the martins have made their
nests ?"

*' Surely, surely," said Master Peasegood.

^^ There is a good-sized hole there, friend
Peasegood."

** Yes, I see," said Master Peasegood, nodding,
** though my eyes are not what they
were."

** That place was made by the shell fired
from my big howitzer when my poor girl
applied the match."

Poor child ! " said Master Peasegood,

sadly, and for some time the two men sat
and smoked in silence.

*' Shall you ever build up the house again,
Master Cobbe ? " said the parson at last.

The founder turned upon him almost
fiercely, and seemed about to utter some
angry word ; but he calmed down, took
the parson's fat hand in his, shook it, and
released it.

'^ Nay," he said, " let it rest ; let it rest."

'' I did not want to hurt your feelings,
Master Cobbe," said the parson ; ^^ but I
thought it would be better for it and for thee.
You must be growing richer than before."

Yes ; and what good is it ? " said the
founder, bitterly. '^Of what use is money
to me ? I only work and toil to keep my
mind at rest. Nay, nay, I cannot build the
old place up ; let it be. Besides," he added
dryly, '^ Mother Goodhugh says it is cursed."

*' Hang Mother Goodhugh — or burn here's
cried the parson impetuously. " A wicked.

cursing, old hag. She had better mend her
ways, or Sir Thomas will be laying her by
the heels. He swore he would months ago,
but I persuaded him not. She had been
following and abusing Mistress Anne."

^' Ay, poor soul — poor soul, she is mad from
her grief, and it makes her curse. Ah !
parson, many's the time I could have gone
about cursing too. Poor soul — poor soul!
let her rest."

^ I see you have been very busy with the
garden again."

^' Ay ; it is getting to be what it was.
The trees have shot forth once more, and
the flowers bloom. She loved that garden,
parson — dearly."

'' Ay ; and the old house too. Master
Cobbe. Build it up, man ; build it up."

'^ Nay, not a stone. It is cursed — cursed."

*^ Bah ! Stuff, man. Away with such folly.
It is no more cursed than it is haunted, as
the people say."

The founder started, and gazed strangely
at his friend.

'' Do they say it is haunted ? "

*eyes; such folly. Two or three people
have sworn to me that they have heard
shrieks."

'parson," said the founder hoarsely, ashe
laid his hand on the other's sleeve ; '' they
are right ; I once heard them too."

^^What?" said Master Peasegood, laughing,
" the owls ? "

Nay, I should know the cry of an owl
man. It is not that. Time after time I've
stood there in the forest, and heard the wild
cry just at dark when everything is still."

'^ Nay, nay," said Master Peasegood, '' the
dead don't cry for help, neither do the angels
in heaven ; and if there's truth in all we
believe, man, our little Mace's looking down
upon us, an angel among God's best and
dearest ones."

The old man's head went down upon his

hand at this, and he sat in silence for sometime,
while, with his eyes misty and dim,
Master Peasegood leaned back in his chair,
and smoked with all his might.

The silence was broken by the founder
holding out his hand to his visitor, and
shaking it warmly.

'* Thanks, parson, thanks," he said.
'what you say ought to be true; and I
hope she forgives me for my vanity and
pride."

'' Poor child ! It was a mistake, Master
Cobbe, but let it rest. They say our gay
spark. Sir Mark, is going to comfort himself
by wedding Mistress Anne."

'^ Ay? Indeed?" said the founder. '' 1
did hear something of the kind, but I paid
little heed."

^^ I hear it as a fact, Master Cobbe."

*swell, let him," said the founder. "He
should be a rich man, too, by this time, for
he has made money from me as well as I

have from the King. Don't talk of it,
though ; it makes me dwell upon the past."

They smoked on for a time without speaking,
and then, with a patient, piteous aspect
in his face, the founder turned to his visitor.

'' I've been a wicked man, parson," he
said.

'' So we all are," said Master Peasegood,
blufHy. " I always sinned from a desire for
the good things of this life. I love goodly
food, and good ale, and good tobacco now ;
and I shall go on sinning to the end," he
added, taking a hearty draught,

*^ I have been harsh and hard, and IVe not
done my duty here, Master Peasegood ; and
these punishments have come upon me for
my sins."

^^ Stuff, stuff!" cried Master Peasegood.
'* I won't sit and hear it. Don't talk of your
Maker as if he were some petty, revengeful
man like us, ready to visit every little weakness
upon our heads with a misfortune, or to

SWEET MACE.

pay us for being good boys with a slice of
bread and honey. Out on such religious
ideas as that, Master Co])be5 and think of
your God as one who is great and good.
Bah ! It aggravates me to hear and see
people fall down and worship the ugly image
they have set up in their hearts, one that
every work of the Creator gives the lie to
for its falsity and cruel wrong. Bear your
burden, Jeremiah Cobbe, like a man. It is
not in us to know the ins and outs of God's
ways ; and it is a wicked and impious sin for
people to say this is a judgment, or that is a
judgment, and to pretend to know what the
All-seeing thinks and does. You say you've
been a wicked man, Master Hobbes''

'^ Yes, yes," said the founder sadly ; '^ and
I have but one hope now, and that is that I
may see my darling once again."

^^ Amen to that," said Master Peasegood ;
*^ but, as to your wickedness, I wish every
man was as wicked, and hot-tempered, and

true-hearted, and generous, and frank, and industrious,
and forgiving as thou art, Jeremiah

Cobbe ; and Will you have that ale

flagon filled again ? Much talking makes
me dry."

The founder smiled, and called for Croftly's
wife, who replenished the flagon, bobbed a
curtsey to the parson, and re-entered the
cottage.

'' I like you, Jeremiah Cobbe," continued
Master Peasegood, after setting down the
flagon with a satisfied sigh; ^' but don't be
superstitious, man, like our sovereign master
the King, who has written a book to hand
down his wisdom to posterity."

'indeed ! " said the founder, whose thoughts
were evidently far away.

'^ Yes, indeed," said Master Peasegood ;
'^ and it's all about witches and warlocks and
the like. That piece of idiot spawn has
gotten itself down here into Sir Thomas's
hands ; and, as I told thee, he was very near

laying that foolish old woman Mother Good-hugh
by the heels. Now she hates nie like
poison, because I laugh at her and tell the
people she is a half-crazed old crone. Last
time I saw her we quarrelled, for I told her
she was a wretched old impostor, for cheating
the poor people as she did. Ha ! ha 1
ha ! and then she defied and cursed me, and
said she'd go to Father Brisdone and turn
Roman Catholic. I told her to go, and he'd
curse her for cursing, for it is his trade,
and she has no right to handle such tools
at all."

'' Poor weak woman," said the founder.
'* She is more to be pitied than blamed. I
suppose she thinks in her heart that I am the
cause of all her woes."

'' Ay, poor soul, but it's partly vanity,
friend Cobbe. She likes to set up for a
prophetess, a sort of diluted Deborah, and to
make the people believe in her. There, you
must go and see her. If I go to her, being

the good man of the parish, she will have
naught to say to me. Now, you being a
wicked man, may have more influence
than I."

'^ I influence ? Nay, man ; she'll fall a
cursing if I go nigh her cot."

** Let her curse. Her words won't hurt
thee, man. Go to her, and give her money
thou hast enough — bid her get away far
enough from this place to somewhere safe ;
and when there, tell her to live a decent
life and forget her silly trickstering and
stuff. It's a fine opportunity for thee,
Jeremiah Cobbe. It's just the sort of
revenge thou likest to take on an enemy.
Go and pour coals of fire on her head, for
I'm sure this place isn't safe for such as she."

"Would Sir Thomas imprison her?" said
the founder.

^' Sir Thomas is so good and honest a
justice of the peace, and so great a lover of
the words of his Majesty the King, who

made him the baronet he is, that he would
set up a stake, scatter Dame Beckley's dried
simples and herbs around it, heap it with
goodly faggots, and burn Mother Good-hugh
for a witch while the Roehurst people
would look on."

'^ Thickest thou this. Master Peasegood ? '
'^ I'm sure of it," said the parson, dashing
down his pipe in his anger. jeremiah
Cobbe, it makes me as mad as Moses to
see what fools the people are. We have just
got rid of the superstitions of Rome, sir,
and we go at once and set up the golden
calf of witchcraft, and worship it, from our
ruler to the humblest peasant in his realm.
By my word. Master Cobbe, an' I had had
the two tables in my hands like the old
prophet, I'd not have broken them on the
rocks, but upon the thick-boned skulls of
my erring folk."

*not worship the idol — condemn it,
Master Peasegood," said the founder, smiling

Well, but we believe it," cried the
other. *^ Out upon us all, but we are sorry-fools."


'^ I'll go and do this thing, Master Pease-good,"
said the founder, after musing for a
few minutes.

'^ That's right; I knew thou would'st."

^^ But maybe she will not go''

'' Then take her, like the angels did Lot of
old, and thrust her out of the place. Tell
her Roehurst will prove a Sodom to her if
she does not go, for i' faith she'll go to the
flames, in spite of all I can do or say."

*i'll go to her this very evening, Master
Peasegood."

"Then I will go my way," cried the
parson ; and, paying one more attention to
the flagon, he rose, shook hands, and left.

VOL. III. M

CHAPTER X.

how mother goodhugh fared ill at
justice's hands.

By chance it happened that Anne Buckley
had extended her walk towards the woods
and had strolled farther than she had
intended. Pate led her into the narrow
lane where she had rested in Gil Carr's arms
when Mace and Sir Mark had been witnesses
of the scene.

She smiled now as she seated herself upon
the bank, and thought of the changes that
had taken place, for she was shortly to
become Mark Leslie's wife.

How the time had passed, she thought,
and how cleverly she had won Sir Mark

from his gloom and despondency to become
at first grateful, then loving, and at last — so
she believed — so infatuated with her, that
she could do with him as she pleased.

If some unkind friend had told her that
her father's money and estates had anything
to do with the match, she would have rejected
the suggestion with scorn, and then
gone to her mirror, to examine the sit of her
ruffle, to give a slight touch to her painted
cheeks, and perhaps add another ornamental
patch to her chin.

Sir Mark was in town now, preparing for
the bridal, and Anne's heart was joyful
within her, as she thought of the coming
ceremony. For years she had been dreaming
of and hoping for wedlock, and at last
she was to be a wife — a lady of title — Dame
Anne Leslie, and her eyes sparkled with the
pleasure of the thought.

The spot she had chosen for her reverie,
though, brought up thoughts that made her

M 2

sigh. There, close by where she was seated,
Gil Carr had held her in his arms ; and she
sighed as she recalled how fondly she believed
that she had loved him. And where
was he now ?

A year had rolled by since he set sail,
and no news of either him or his followers
had reached Roehurst since ; and as she
thought of this the events of that terrible
time came crowding back.

"" Poor Mace !" she said, softly; "I am
sorry I hated you so much ; and poor Gil
Carr, he was a proper youth. Alack ! What
change one lives to see ! "

She felt half disposed to continue her
walk, and go on as far as the Pool-house ;
but a slight shudder ran through her nerves
at the thought. Somehow the ruins had a
repelling influence upon her, and she shrank
from going near, feeling that she had been
to blame for what had taken place on that
terrible night.

''1 don't think FU go," she said softly;
and she was about to rise and return, when
she became aware that some one was standing
close behind her, and, starting up, she
found herself face to face with Mother Good-hugh,
who had advanced as quietly as a cat.

^^ Mother Goodhugh ! " she cried in a
startled voice.

^' Yes, my dearie, it be Mother Goodhugh.
What can 1 do for thee, my beauty bird ? "

*' Nothing, mother," replied Anne sharply.

'nothing, my dearie?" said the old
woman laughing. '' Nay, surely you want
some help of the poor old woman who works
to help you. Is it a new lover, my dear ? "

I have told thee I do not want anything,
mother," cried Anne peevishly.

'' Nay, then, come on to my cottage,
where we can talk. Thou has not been to
see me for months and months."

'' Nay, mother, I'll come no more. Good
day, I must get me home."

^^ Stay, child," cried Mother Goodhugh,
clutching at her dress ; ^^ I want to talk to
thee of him. Come to my place."

'^ Loose me this instant, mother," cried
Mistress Anne, indignantly. ^^ How dearest
thou lay thy hands on me ? "

'^ Only because we are sisters, dearie."

^^ Sisters?"

'^ Ay, dearie ; don't we practise the art
together. But hist, hist, come to my cottage
and let us talk."

^^ Not a step will I go," cried Anne,
angrily.

^^ Nay, is it so ? Ah, she has gotten what
she wanted by my help — a brave, fine husband,
and now she throws me by."

'^ Cease thy talk about those childish
follies. I am sick of them."

*^ Ay, child, yes ; thou art sick of them
now, but when thou wast hungry for thy
love nothing was too good for Mother Good-hugh
then."

^^ Out upon thee ! Did I not pay thee well
for thy silly mummers ? "

*pay me well?" cried Mother Good-hugh.
^^ Nay ; what were a few paltry gold
pieces for such a husband as I gained for
thee ? "

'^ You gained for me ? " cried Anne,
contemptuously.

"Ay, to be sure, I gained for thee, mistress;
and now thou hast him safe I be
thrown aside. Not once hast thou been tome
these many months."

*^ I tell thee I have done with such follies,"
cried Anne contemptuously. ^^ I have paid
thee, and there the matter ends."

** Oh, nay, mistress, it does not. Thou
hast thy lover, and so had poor Mace Cobbe,
and the wedding was to be next day ; but I
prophesied that she should not have the man
of thy choice, and what came to pass ? "

'* Mother Goodhugh," said Anne, turning

pale, ^' if I thought thou had'st any tiling todo
with that misfortune at the Pool thou
should'st be handed over to my father for
punishment according to thy deserts."

'^ And would she who helped me be
punished too ? "

'^ If thou had'st accomplices, yes."

^' Sweet mistress, then we will go to
prison, thou and I, together, for we made
our plans to stay the wedding of Mace
Cobbe."

^^It is false; I had nothing to do with thy
plans," cried Anne excitedly.

^^ Had'st thou not better come to my cottage,
mistress?" said Mother Goodhugh.

'^ Nay, I have done with thee and thy
ways. I'll come there no more."

^^ But thou wilt pay me for winning thee
a husband."

'' Pay thee?" cried Anne contemptuously.
'' What should I pay thee ? "

^^A hundred golden pounds, mistress,"
cried the old woman, whose eyes sparkled
at the very mention of so much money.

'' A hundred pence," cried Anne. ^' Go,
get you gone, old crone. I'll never part
with a piece again for thy follies."

'^ Have a care, mistress," cried the old
woman excitedly, for her anger was getting
the better of her reason. ^^ Thou art not
Mark Leslie's wife as yet, and some accident
might happen to thee, too."

^^ Mother Goodhugh," cried Anne, "have
a care. Thou art a marked woman."

'^ I will have a care, my dearie, that if I
am to suffer, thou shalt suffer too. I can
place thee in prison if I am touched, so
beware — beware''

'^ Vile old hag," cried Anne angrily ;
' Speak a word against me, and you shall
bitterly repent it."

Rue it, eh ! We'll see ; we'll see," cried
the old woman, shaking her stick after the

girl, as she hurried back, uneasy enough in
her mind to suffer acutely, for Mother Good-hugh
might throw obstacles in the way.
She shuddered at the bare thought of what
had happened on the eve of Mace's wedding,
but determined to risk all.

If she speaks, no one will believe her,"
cried Anne laughing. ^^ She shall be seized
for a witch, and she dare not charge me with
helping her, for if she did it would only be
accusing herself, and that she dare not do.
Neither dare I let her be at liberty till I am
dear Mark's wife. After this she may do
her worst."

Full of this intent— for now that the old
woman had obtruded herself once more upon
her path, she really feared her — Anne hurried
back towards the Moat, feeling anything but
secure while Mother Goodhugh was at liberty.
Her mind had been too much occupied of
late during Sir Mark's long visits to trouble
herself about the old woman, and whatever

thought she had had of the terrible night at
the Pool-house had been gradually allowed
to grow dull. The great thing had been
that the wedding had been stayed, but, now
that she thought the matter over, she felt
sure that Mother Goodhugh had been guilty
of some desperate deed; and to bring it
home to herself — if the old woman would do
such a thing for gain, might she not do it for
revenge ?

Anne shuddered and her brow grew cloudy
as she felt that she could not set Mother
Goodhugh aside as one that she need not
fear. Sir Mark was not yet her husband,
and what if some terrible catastrophe were
to happen to prevent the wedding.

^^I should go mad," she muttered ; and she
paused to think whether it would be better
to try a bribe.

'^ She wants too much money, and if I
did silence her now she would be pestering
me with claims for more, and threaten and

harass mc. No, mother; you have opened
the battle again, so now let us see which of
us is the stronger''

Hurrying to her father's room lest her
mind should change, Anne had a long
colloquy with him, introducing the subject
of witchcraft incidentally.

'' Sir Mark tells me, father, that his
Majesty strongly approves of efforts being
made to keep down witches in this
country."

'' Yes, my dear, so I heard Sir Mark say''
replied Sir Thomas, putting on his carp-like
visage, and gaping and panting at his
daughter, as his eyes stood out wide and
round.

^^ Why should you not do something to
commend yourself to the King ? "

'' But what could I do, child ? '' said Sir
Thomas.

^^ True, there is nothing you could, unless
you arrested Mother Goodhugh."

*you forbad it once, but the very thing''
cried Sir Thomas, eagerly.

^' But she is not a witch," said Anne,
dubiously.

'' Nay, my child, but, according to his
Majesty's book, she has all the signs of a
witch in her."

Indeed, father ? "

'^ Yes, child, I have studied it all well, and
can show you a dozen points wherein she
answers to a witch. Anne, my child, she
shall be seized and examined."

*' 1 don't think I would, father. Such
women are sure to say more than is quite
true, and spit their venom at random. Better
let her rest in peace."

*^ Nay, child, she shall be examined, and,
if she says too much, she shall be gagged.
I am not a man to be trifled with by a
known and practised witch."

Next day Mother Goodhugh returned to
her cottage from one of her many absences

in the forest, full of bitterness against Mistress
Anne.

'^ Does she think she be going to play
with me ?" muttered the old woman. '^ Not
she. I be not frightened of her threats
now. Let her speak if she dares. I could
tell strange tales against her if I liked, and
I'll be paid. One hundred golden pounds
she shall give me, or she shall not marry
him ; nay, that she shall not. Mother Good-hugh
is stronger than they think." She
chuckled, as she walked sharply up and
down the little room, shaking her stick and
then thumping the end upon the floor.
*^ Nice tales could I tell. Mistress Anne
Beckley would look well as my companion,
and ha-ha-ha ! ho-ho-ho ! What would the
fine, gay, gallant Sir Mark say to his sweet
if he knew of the tricks and plans she had
carried out. There would be an end to the
wedding, and she dare not speak. What do
you want here ? "

^^I came to see thee, Mother Goodhugh,''
said the founder, who had just raised the
latch, and stood in the doorway.

^^ To see me," cried the old woman,
fiercely. 'what! hast come to be cursed
again ? But no, no, no ; go away, man, go
away, away," she said hurriedly, as she fella
trembling. '' I don't want thee here."

'' Mother Goodhugh," said the founder,
sadly, '' thou hast always looked upon me as
an enemy."

'eyes, a bitter, cruel enemy," she cried
flinching from him. Then, with a malignant
grin, she added, " But thou hast had to
suffer too, Master Cobbe, and to know what
it is to gnaw thy heart with pain."

'' Yes, yes, woman, I know all that," said
the founder, hastily ; " but let us not talk of
the bygone, but of the future."

What is my future to thee, Mas' Jeremiah
Cobbe ? " cried the old woman, suspiciously.

" Go thy ways, and let me go
mine."

•* I came to tell thee that there is danger
for thee, Mother Goodlmgh. They say that
thought a witch, and I came to bid thee go
hence to some place where thou art not
known."

^^ Who will harm me?" cried the old
woman.

Maybe Sir Thomas will have thee put in
prison."

'' She aren't do it — she aren't do it,"
cried the old woman, fiercely. " I defy her
I defy her''

*^ The law dare do a good deal, Mother
Goodhugh," said the founder, sadly. " But
take my advice : go from hence. I have
ready for thee twenty gold pounds; they
will keep thee for some time, and when they
are gone I will give thee more. But go,
and go at once, before it is too late."

The old woman's fingers were held out
crooked and trembling to grasp the money,
her eyes twinkling with eagerness ; but ere
the founder could place the coins therein she
seemed to make a tremendous effort over
herself, and snatched back her hands.

^^Nay," she cried, '^I will not go. Thou
for one would'st get rid of me, and Mistress
Anne hath sent thee, but I'll not be baulked
of my revenge."

I came not from Mistress Anne, good
mother. It was from a talk with Master
Peasegood that I came to-day."

*' Yes, yes, I know," cried the old woman
exultingly, '^ from Mas' Peasegood, her
friend. So I am to be sent away on a
beggar's pittance, and forego my revenge.
She be a clever girl, but she can't outwit me."

^^I understand not thy sayings, mother,"
said the founder, wearily ; "I only bid thee
get hence, for the sake of thy poor dead
husband and thy boy."

VOL. III. N

The founder said the words in all kindness,
but they transformed Mother Good-hugh
into a perfect fury ; her eyes flashed,
the foam stood upon her lips, and, mouthing
and gibbering in impotent rage, she pointed
to the door.

'^ Go," she shrieked at last, "and tell
them who sent thee that Mother Goodhugh
will stay in her place and defy them. Bid
Mistress Anne have a care, and tell her that
if Mother Goodhugh stands at the stake it
will be back to back with the mincing,
painting, and patching madam who came
and bade her curse and destroy her rival at
the Pool-house ; who planned its destruction
; who is a worse witch than I. Tell
her all this, for I'll stay and defy her. Bid
her do her worst."

Silence, woman ! " cried the founder, who
gazed at her, horrified and startled at this
outburst ; " thou art mad."

Mad ? Ay, mad, if thou wilt ; but wait

and see. Tell her I'll stay— tell her 111
stay and defy her. She don't know Mother
Goodhugh yet, Jeremiah Cobbe ; so wait
and see."

^' I shall not have long to wait, then,"
said the founder, gloomily. "It is thy own
fault, woman, and God forgive thee for thy
cursing and tliy lies."

Mother Goodhugh had literally driven
him from her room, to stand at the doorway
fiercely gesticulating and threateningly
waving her stick ; but, as the founder spoke
and drew back from her, a complete change
came over the old woman : her eyes grew
fixed, her jaw dropped, the stick fell from
her hand, and she clung to the doorpost,
turning of a deadly white, for at that
moment Sir Thomas Beckley, looking red,
important, and accompanied by the village
constable, a couple of assistants with a cart,
and some dozen or two of the people, came
slowly to the door.

N 2

The rustic constable held a document in
his hand, which he tried to read to the
woman, and dismally failed from want of
erudition, even though prompted by Sir
Thomas. He mumbled out, though, something
about the heinous sin of witchcraft ;
and sovereign lord and King.

Then thrusting the document into his
rough doublet, he caught the old woman by
the wrist.

'* No, no," she shrieked in agony, all her
defiance gone, as she found herself face to
face with the horrible reality. ^^No, no, I
will not go."

'^ Come, thou must, Mother Goodhugh,"
said the constable ; " and I warn thee that if
thou begins any cursing against me and
my men it will be the worse for thee."

^^I will not go; I am innocent, Sir
Thomas. Pray, Sir Thomas, don't let him.
A poor weak widow woman. Pray, pray
don't."

^^An anointed witch thou art," said the
justice, pompously. ^^ Away with her."

'^ Nay, nay, Sir Thomas," cried the founder.
"She is no witch; only a silly, half-mad
creature."

'^ Yes, that be right," cried Mother Good-hugh,
clinging frantically to one of the doorposts,
*mad — mad with trouble, good Sir
Thomas."

Nay, woman, thy witchcraft have stunk
in my nostrils this many a day, and there is
a long list of crimes for thee to expiate* at
the stake."

Shame, Sir Thomas ! " cried the founder,
indignantly; '^ if any one has cause against
her it is I."

^^Yes, yes, good Sir Thomas, hear him.
I have cursed him more than any. Oh,
pray, pray."

'^ Pray," cried the justice ; "pray to thy
familiars, woman ! Take her along*'

** This is monstrous," cried the founder,
indignantly.

'* Hold thy peace. Master Cobbe," said Sir
Thomas, impatiently; sand if thou dost
interfere it will be at thy peril. Take her
away, men, take her away''

'^ No, no ! no, no ! " shrieked the horrified
woman, before whose affrighted face the
faggot and stake already loomed. '• Mas'
Cobbe, save me — for pity's sake, save me.
I be not a witch. I only cursed in the
naughtiness of my heart. Help me, Mas'
Cobbe ; for thy dear child's sake, help me,
and I'll tell thee all. I will not go. I will
not goethe

founder sprang forward to her help,
but he was unarmed, and Sir Thomas drew
his sword and placed himself before the
prisoner.

** 1 warn thee. Master Cobbe," he cried,
'^ that this is a legal seizure. Stand back.

sir, stand back. Quick men, do your
duty."

It was a horrible scene, for the old woman
clung to her door, and had to be literally
torn away by the men, who, adding coarseness
to the superstition of their superiors, felt
no mercy for one whom they looked upon
as being leagued with the powers of ill.

And now that the wise woman's reign was
over, and she was held to be harmless, those
who had feared and sought counsel of her
rose up to spit on the shivering form that
was being dragged along the ground towards
the tail of the cart. For we were a fine and
manly race in the good old times, and those
who represented us at Roehurst made no
scruple about reviling and kicking the quivering,
helpless creature, who struggled hard as
she was dragged by the wrists, her clothes
torn, her hair dishevelled, and her old whiteface
looking from one to the other for the
help that none would give.

^' Out upon the witch ! " they shrieked and
yelled, drowning the poor wretch's hoarse
cries for mercy. ^^ Burn her! Burn her!"
rose in chorus ; and the founder strove hard
to reach her, but he was kept back by the
increasing crowd, for the news that Mother
Goodhugh was to be taken for a witch soon
spread, and men, women, and children came
panting up to join in execrating the helpless
wretch.

Faint and exhausted, they bound her hands
behind her back and her ankles tightly together,
before, amidst tremendous shouting
and yelling, she was lifted by four strong
men, and literally thrown into, the cart,
which was then set in motion, with Sir
Thomas following behind with his sword
drawn, and the people going before and
crowding after, as the wheels sank down
first on one side in the ruts, then on the
other, revealing the wretched woman, who
was now goaded to desperation, and had

struggled up into a kneeling position, which
she could hardly maintain for the rolling of
tie cart.

Every time she was nearly thrown down
the crowd yelled with delight ; and, on some
rustic genius throwing a clod of earth at her,
his example was followed, and the poor
wretch knelt there cowering from the shower
of missiles sent into the cart.

At last she contrived to get her wrists
loosed from the ill-tied cords ; and, holding
the cart-side with one hand, she raised the
other, and shrieked out anathema after
anathema against her persecutors, uttering
such horrible curses against them that the
less bold shrank away and the stoutest began
to quail. But Mother Goodhugh's reign of
cursing was nearly at an end ; for, as the
founder indignantly watched the proceedings,
a great lad close by him picked up and
hurled a lump of sandrock at the wretched
creature, striking her full in the temple, and,

amidst a shout of triumph, the miserable
woman fell stunned and bleeding to the
bottom of the cart.

'^ That were a good hurl, master," cried the
lout, with a broad grin.

'' Yes," said the founder, fiercely, '^ and so
was that ! "

As he spoke, he struck the great, broad-faced
fellow straight in the cheek, and he
rolled over into one of the cart-ruts, whilst
the procession with Mother Goodhugh, fortunately
insensible now to pain, turned a
corner of the winding lane, and passed out
of the founder's sight.

CHAPTER XL

HOW ROEHURST KEPT FETE FOR A WEDDING AND

A DEATH.

Truly Satan must have been reigning upon
earth in full fig when it was found necessary
to execute thirty of his disciples at one time
in Edinburgh. As for poor Mrs. Hicks and
her little daughter, aged nine, who were
hanged at Huntingdon in 1716, they might
have rejoiced at the opportunity of getting
out of such a world of fools and ignorance.
They must have been great sinners, though,
for they had sold their souls to the devil, and
crowning atrocity ! — they had raised a
storm, and the recipe is handed down to

posterity, for the modus operandi was
*^ pulling off their stockings and making a
lather of soap ! "

If for such a crime as this a tender child
of nine could be punished with death in
Christian England in those salutary days,
there can be no wonder that Mother Good-hugh's
condemnation was pretty sure. She
was the known witch of the neighbourhood,
and those who had feared her, sought her
help, and paid her, were among the first to
give evidence against the repository of their
secrets.

Jeremiah Cobbe strove hard to save her,
and so did Master Peasegood ; but two menin
an out-of-the-way part of England could
not stem the tide of popular opinion, as it
set strong against the wretched woman. In
her rage and hate she strove to drag down
Mistress Anne as well, but in so doing
made a bitter enemy of one who was strong
in court favour. For on hearing of the

accusation Sir Mark lost no opportunity of
fighting against '^ this notorious witch."

But Mother Goodhugh was not condemned
without ample test and trial, fallen as she
had under the care of a famous witch-finder
and judge of the day, who came down to the
nearest town by royal command to investigate
the case.

The wretched woman was put through a
course of torture. She suffered the pin test
for the witch's mark. This failing, she next
had her thumbs and toes tied together, she
was wrapped in a sheet, and in the presence
of plenty of spectators thrown into a pool.

As a certain amount of air remained in
the sheet, and the water was some time in
penetrating it, the poor woman naturally
enough floated, amidst the execrations of the
crowd, among whom were some twenty or
thirty of Sir Mark's men.

None but a witch could float, so it was
said ; so after a final test, in which Mother

Goodhugh failed to repeat the Lord's prayer
without hesitation, her trial proceeded, and
she was condemned to be burnt at the stake
in her own village a week after sentence.

There was not much mercy shown in those
days, and, though the fair rounded cheeks of
Anne Beckley turned a little pale when Sir
Mark brought her the news, they flushed
directly after, for she felt that she would be
freed from a persecutor who would give her
no rest, and who might cause her trouble
with her husband after the first few months
of matrimonial life.

Besides, Anne Beckley argued with a
shudder, the old woman had done strange
things, and, with the superstition in her
nature ready to accept it, she argued that
if living she might curse her to her injury.
True she might curse her now, but, as her
accusations had been set aside as malicious,
it was quite possible that her evil genius had
deserted her as he did those who became

unfortunate, and, as she had risked so much
and gained only defiance, Anne Beckley
determined to go on to the end.

It was a strange mixture, but the preparations
for the wedding of Mistress Anne
Beckley and for the execution of Mother
Goodhugh went on side by side, in spite of
the further efforts of Master Peasegood and
the founder, who even went so far as to
make a journey to London to seek the
King's clemency. Of course without avail.

From his position as maker of his Majesty's
Ordnance, Master Cobbe succeeded in getting
an audience, to be received well, told that he
was a good man, that his guns were strong,
but that he knew naught of witchcraft.

^* Read my book. Master Cobbe, read my
book," said his Majesty ; and Jeremiah
Cobbe had to bow himself out with the stout
parson, who was perspiring with anger.

'' I'm a loyal and I hope religious man,

Master Cobbe," said the latter excitedly ;
*^I fear God and 1 honour the King; but
all the same, Master Cobbe, I vow and
declare that his Majesty is the damnedest
fool I ever saw, and may the Lord forgive
me for swearing."

"Yes," said the founder, sadly. ^' Well,
old friend, we have done all we can, so let
us stay away till they have wreaked their
silly vengeance on that poor, mad soul*'

'' No, no, thank God ! " said Master Pease-good,
^' they can only wreak it on her body,
my friend, and as to staying here — nay, that
must not be. I have no love for the weak
old creature, who spent her time in mummery
and silly cursing, but my place is by her
side to ask forgiveness with her and a painless
passage to the mercy-seat."

^* Ay, parson, thou art right, and I'll join
thee in thy prayer, for there should be mercy
for one who men declare shall have her
hellish flames before she dies."

^^I don't quite like that speech, Master
Cobbe, but you mean quite right. Now,
good friend, take me to some hostel and
give me ale, or I shall faint here by the
way. Nay, I'll not. It is choler. I'll be
blooded instead, a good nine ounces, or I
shall have a fit."

They were stout, strong posts that were setup
outside the Moat gates to bear the arch of
evergreens and flowers, but it was a stronger
one in front of the cottage where Mother
Goodhugh had spent her days, and, while
men piled last year's faggots and heaped up
charcoal taken from the founder's dogwood
stacks, others cut down branches of yew and
holly and gathered bundles of heather and
golden gorse, and the preparations for the
wedding feast went on.

^' Ah, parson," cried Sir Mark, from the
back of one of Sir Thomas's stout cobs, as he
rode along beside fair Mistress Anne, who

VOL. III. o

was mounted on a handsome jennet, '^ I have
not seen thee for days. Art ready to tie our
nuptial knot?"

*^ No, Sir Mark," said Master Peasegood,
sternly. ^^I am going to pray beside the
dying and the dead."

'what does he mean — the insolent fool?"
cried Sir Mark, angrily.

'' Truth, love, I cannot tell," said Mistress
Anne ; but in her heart of hearts she felt a
sickening sensation, and would have given
anything that the execution or the coming
wedding were to take place elsewhere.

'ras he will, sweetest," said Sir Mark,
tenderly, and they rode on, receiving salutations
from all they passed; "there are plenty
of priests who will be glad to make us
one ; and only think, love — only two days
now."

Anne Beckley rode on in silence for sometime,
thinking. Her betrothed laughed and
chatted gaily, and truly they were a handsome

pair; but the girl's heart was ill at
ease, and at last, being bantered by Sir Mark
upon her silence, she leaned towards him ina
quiet glade of the forest, and, laying her
hand upon his shoulder, offered her lips to
his long clinging kiss.

'^ I have a favour to ask, love," she said.

** Ask favours from now till night, and
thou shalt have them all," he cried.

^* It is but one," faltered Anne; ^' our
wedding."

'^ I would it were over," cried Sir Mark,
eagerly ; '' but what of it, bright eyes ? "

I like not the day," said Anne, checking
her horse's pace so that she could cling to
her companion.

^' And why not ? " he asked.

'' I like it not for my sake and thine," she
said in a low tone.

'^ Let's hear the reason on thy part," said
Sir Mark, laughing.

^^It is the day they burn that wicked

o2

woman ; and it troubles me that we should
go to church at such a the."

*' The day of a good deed, love," he said.
*^ Now the other, for my sake."

^' Have you not thought," she said, pressing
closer to him, heedless of the fact that
they were watched.

^^ I thought? Yes, that it is the most
blessed day in the calendar."

^'Nay; but have you not thought what
day it is?"

^'Not I. Saint Somebody-or-another's —
some Christian martyr's, perhaps ; and we'll
give him a burnt sacrifice of bad witch to
satisfy his manes."

'* Mark, it is the anniversary of the day
that was to have seen you a husband ; me a
broken-hearted girl."

Sir Mark started and changed colour. He
was troubled, for it seemed a bad augury that
such a day should have been chosen, but he
lightly put it aside.

Never mind, love ; it was an accident,
and can make no difference now. Besides,
the matter is settled, and if we picked the
days over we should find each the anniversary
of some troubled time."

Anne Beckley was disappointed, but she
made no more objection, and they rode soon
after through the avenue and over the bridge,
beneath which the great carp gaped and
stared with their big round eyes in unconscious
imitation of their master, the wise
dispenser of King James's justice, and keeper
of the peace.

CHAPTER XII.

HOW MISTRESS ANNE WATCHED AND FEARED.

Early morning', as bright and glowing
autumn time as ever shone over the weald
of Sussex. The harvest was gathered in ; the
trees were heavy beneath the red and golden
crop of apples, and in hedgerow and plantation
the brown and cream-husked nuts
peered out in clusters from the leafy stubs.

There was a suspicion here and there of
the coming fall, but only in bright touches
of beauty — golds, and russets, and reds —
bloody crimson, and orange scarlet, where
the sun-kissed leaves yet burned beneath
the caresses of the ardent god. The sky
above was of the richest, purest blue, and

the eye rested on naught but beauty, so long
as it kept to nature, and not to art, for
winding along the narrow lane towards Roe-hurst
was a procession of armed men, preceding
and following a rough country tumbril,
drawn by a clumsy horse. The load
was apparently a heap of shabby garments,
dropped in one corner of the cart.

But the crowd that pressed upon the
armed men, striving to get a glimpse of the
interior of the vehicle, could see that the
bundle of clothes in the cart moved slightly
from time to time, lifting a thin white hand
and letting it fall heavily once more ; and as
they buzzed, and talked, and shouted to one
another, they made out further that there
was a grey head raised from the heap, and a
white, scared face looked round partly in
wonder, partly seeking for pity, as its owner
seemed to realise her position, and then
crouched lower and lower as she heard
shouts and voices crying out the words,

Mother Goodhugh ! Witch ! The stake,
the stake ! ''

The escort took the pressure of the eager
little crowd very good-humouredly, but had
to keep) waving the sight-seers back, or some
would have been trampled beneath the
horse's feet, and as it was the procession was
greatly delayed.

*' I don't believe they'll burn her after
all," said one rough specimen of a peasant
to another.

'nay, they will. Stake be all ready, and
faggots enough to burn a dozen such witches
as old Mother there."

I'll believe it when I see it, lad. See if
she don't go off in a flash, or else make the
rain come so as the faggots won't burn.
Nay, lad, she won't be done for yet. Look
there. Did'st see her wicked old eyes
glowering round when she raised her head ?
Don't let her look at thee, or she'll put a
curse in thy face."

'' Ay, but she be a wicked looking one,
and it will be a glad riddance for Roehurst
when she be gone, for she did naught but
curse."

'^ Mas' Cobbe ought to be glad to see her
burnt, for she's cursed him oft enough, poor
soul."

But why don't they make haste ? I
want to see the burning, and then get back
to the wedding games. '^

'' Oh, they won't wed till Mother Good-laugh's
all in ash, lad. See, there be the
bridegroom. He be going to see it done."

'* But what be they stopping for?"

*' Don't know," said the other, climbing
up the bank and holding on by the branch
of a tree. ^' Why, it be parson come, and hebe
getting into the cart with Mother Good-hugh.
Say, look there ! He be gone down
on his knees aside her, and takes her hand.
Look out, parson, as she don't fly at thee
like a cat."

But there was no cat-like spring in Mother
Goodhugh, for torture and starvation had
reduced her so that the little life left in her
was likely to flutter away before the torch
was placed to the faggots. As Master Pease-good
laboriously clambered into the cart and
knelt beside her, he took one of the poor
wretch's wasted hands in his, and she raised
her head to look up at him half-wonderingly,
before letting it fall once more, and remaining
apparently nerveless and flaccid, waiting
for the end.

The procession passed within fifty yards
of the Moat gate, where Anne Beckley was
waiting — not to cry out in reviling tones
against the wretched woman, but to see her
pass, hidden awhile amidst the dense evergreens,
and trembling lest she should be
seen.

Anne Beckley's heart beat fast as the procession
came nearer and nearer, and she
crouched down trembling as she fancied that

Mother Goodhiigh must see her ; while the
cold dew stood upon her brow as she waited
for the curses the old woman would fling
upon her head.

But there was no curse hurled at her ;
there was the trampling of feet, and the buzz
of many voices, beating hoofs, and grinding
wheels coming nearer and nearer, till all
appeared to stay close by, and Anne's heart
seemed to stop its pulse as well.

She had come to see her enemy, and would
gladly have witnessed the execution, only
that she dared not express a wish so to do ;
and even now, so great was her trepidation,
that in place of gazing at the broken, half-dead
object in the cart, she shrank down
lower and lower till the leaves completely
sheltered her head.

What were they stopping for? Were they
going to bring Mother Groodhugh there ?

No : there had been no stoppage at all ; it
was only her fancy. They were going slowly

on, and that was Master Peascgood's voice
praying beside the wretched creature so near
her end.

'^I'he buzzing and trampling seemed to grow
louder and the grating of the wheels more
defined, till it seemed to Anne as if they
would never pass away ; but they grew fainter
at last, and after some ten minutes of agony
she hurried out of the clump of shrubs, and
hastened to her room, too faint and heartsick
to think of dressing for the ceremony to
come.

Sir Mark and his men would be at the
execution she knew, and when he returned it
would be a signal to her that her enemy was
no more, and she told herself that she would
be able to go to the little church with a
lighter heart.

In imagination she followed the procession
to the narrow lane, and up to the front of
Mother Goodhugh's cottage, where the great
stake had been placed. She saw the wretched

woman bound there, the faggots fired, and
seemed to hear her shrieks as she waved her
hands and wildly cursed those around. Now
she strained at the chain, and strove to tear
it away as it grew red hot and burned into
her thin white flesh, while the flames rose
higher and higher, the faggots crackled, and
she even fancied that she could hear the
shouting of the people.

How the smoke curled up, half suffocating
her at times, and making her hang her head
as if dead ! Then it was swept away, and the
flames rose higher, half hiding the hideously
contorted face with a ruddy lurid veil. The
flames fluttered and danced, and seemed to
Anne as if rejoicing at their task of purifying
the earth from the presence of a witch. Then
the smoke rose higher, till it formed a heavy
canopy above the stake, while the flames
played wildly on its lower surface.

Again the flames opened to reveal the figure
of Mother Goodhugh. She had ceased to curse

now, and with blackened, outstretched hands
was appealing to her executioners to set her
free.

As she did so Anne started forward with a
wild cry.

^'It is too horrible — too horrible!" she
shrieked. *^ Father, father, save her before
it is too late!" and then, overpowered by the
imaginary scene she had conjured up, she
tottered a step or two, and sank fainting
upon the floor.

CHAPTER XIII.

HOW THE WITCH-FAGGOTS WERE FIRED.

The scene at the execution was different
from that which Anne Beckley painted in
her mind. The cart, with its helpless burden,
went slowly on, bumping up and down
through the ruts of the narrow lane, and
the armed escort patiently bore the pressure
of the increasing crowd. For every hamlet
for ten or fifteen miles round had sent its
occupants to see the double show, and every
bank and hillock had its gazing faces ; while,
as the procession drew near to the stake,
with its terrible adjuncts, the cart had some
difficulty in getting through.

The crowd gave way, however, to the

escort, who pushed them back till a circle
was made about the stake, in the midst of
which stood Sir Thomas, Sir Mark, and the
armed men.

As the cart stopped, Master Peasegood
descended, wiping his bare wet forehead,
and stood gazing with pallid face as four of
the men pressed forward and roughly lifted
the condemned woman to the earth.

'^ Be gentle, men, be gentle," he cried, intones
of remonstrance. ^'It is a woman with
whom ye have to deal."

"• A witch — a foul witch — thou mean'st,"
said one of the men ; and there was a yell of
execration from the crowd.

'^ Silence ! " roared Master Peasegood,
furiously. 'are ye brute beasts, or men,
women, and children ? Ah, Master Cobbe,
are you there?" he cried. '^ Can nothing
be done to save this poor creature here ? "

'' Yes," said the founder, sternly. '^ I
protest against this terrible outrage in our

midst, and I call upon you, good people, to
help me to stop it."

There was a murmur in the crowd that
gathered round ; but it was the murmur of
a hungry beast fearful of being robbed of
its prey, and not a hand was raised to help
the speaker.

Master Cobbe," cried Sir Mark, sternly,
^^ if thou art not mad, hold thy peace, and
let the King's commands be done."

^' Water, water," gasped the wretched
woman, looking appealingly round.

Nay, Jezebel, thou shalt have fire," said
Sir Thomas. '^ It is more purifying than
water for such as thou."

There was a burst of laughter at the coarse
jest, but Master Peasegood strode into the
cottage, took a rough earthenware vessel,
and, parting the crowd, filled the mug from
the clear cold spring, and held it to the
wretched woman's lips.

VOL. III. p .

She drank with avidity, and then pressed
her thin white lips to the hand that held the
vessel, while her eyes gave a grateful look at
the face.

^^ Bless you," she said, in a hoarse whisper,
and her lips kept moving quickly.

^ ' Quick," cried Sir Mark ; ^ ^ we are wasting
time," and four of the men seized and carried
the trembling creature to the stake, where a
chain was hanging ready to bind her fast.

But as it happened there was the chain
but no means of fastening it, and impatiently
throwing it aside they bound her with a cart-rope
so that she was upright, for her limbs
refused their task, and she had to be held as
the rope was twisted round.

'' Mas' Cobbe, Mas' Cobbe!" cried Mother
Goodhugh, in a hoarse wail.

'nay, go not nigh to her. Master Cobbe,"
cried Sir Thomas. " She will only curse
thee again."

For answer the founder, who could not
tear himself from the spot, strode towards
the stake.

^^ I cannot save thee, Mother Goodhugh,"
he said, hoarsely.

*nay, but thou did'st try," said the poor
creature, piteously. ^' Try and forgive me,
Mas' Cobbcj for I be a wicked wretch. I
have cursed thee, and the curse has fallen
back on me. Mace, thy child, be •'

^' Stand aside, Master Cobbe," cried Sir
Mark, imperiously. ^^ Now, knaves, do your
work quickly. Round with the faggots. Pile
them higher, man, the brushwood first and
the charcoal last. Quick, we are wasting
time."

The founder and Master Peasegood were
thrust aside, and a part of the crowd pushed
forward to help to build up from a stack at
hand the brushwood and faggots round the
wretched woman, who hung forward with

p2

drooping head, apparently insensible now
from weakness and dread ; and at last all
was ready.

A deep silence fell upon all. The morning
sun shone more brightly than ever on the gay
autumn woodlands, and the eager crowd that,
open-mouthed and staring, awaited the fiery
trial.

'^ Will she screech?" whispered one matron,
who had brought a child in arms to see the
show, and who kept handing her little one
clusters of the great blackberries that grew
so plentifully upon the banks, 'because if
she do I shouldn't like to stay and hear her
cry aloud."

^^Nay," said another, ^^ she'll not squeal
much ; she'll take something to keep away
the pains."

^^ Think she will?

'^ Ay, that she will. She be an anointed
witch. See how she lives. You never go to

her place but there be meal in plenty, and
sugar and bacon too. Where do it come
from, eh ? "

^^Nay, Id'now."

^^ She makes it all with spells, and calls up
plenty for what she wants. Eh, but she be a
clever one. I've met her o' nights in the
forest, going crouching along ; and one night
John Piper see her with a white spirit,
going along together hand in hand."

'' Eh, did he ? What did he say ? "

''He never said a word; he dare not;
but went down flat upon his face, and laid
there till she'd gone."

I'd ha' spoke to her if it had been me."

'nay, thou wouldn't. It be too dreadful.
Maybe she'd ha* put a spell upon thee, and
cursed thee like, and then thou'd ha' pined
away like Susan Carron. You mayn't speak
to a witch when she be out o' nights."

But dost think she do conjure up meal,
and sugar, and bacon ? "

^^ Why, could she get 'em if she didn't ? "
** I don't believe about the white ghost."
Eh, but it be true enough," said another.
^^ Why, I used to see the old witch goo'
nights to dig about the Pool-house, and
Mas' Tom Croftly said, when I tolled him,
that it was to get burned bones to make
spells with. I see her night after night,
when the stones was smoking still."

'^ Eh, she be witch enough," said another.
See how she said that the Pool-house would
be blown up some day, and never be builder]
again. 1 think she goes with one o' they
owls, as flits about o' nights."

^^ Shouldn't wonder," said the woman with
the child; '' and, if she do screech, see if it
bennet just like they call."

She'll fly out o' the fire like one o' they,
see if she don't, and her wings won't even
be singed. I wonder whether she'll come
back again, and live about here like an owl.

If she do I shan't stay i' this neighborhood to
please nobody, so there."

Nay, she won't fly away," said one who
had not yet spoken. '^ She'll go down into
the earth like, and underneath or into the
rocks. Frank Groodsell told me he saw her
go right into a solid piece o' rock stone one
night as he crossed the forest — she was
there one moment, and the next moment she
was gone — and became so frighted that he
ran away."

'' But he ought to ha' searched the place."

So he did next day, for he was 'shamed
o' being scared by an old woman."

Yes ; and what did he see ? "

Solid stones, and not a hole big enough
for a mouse to get into and hide. She just
touched the rock with her stick, and it opened
and she went in, and it shut up after her.
That be a real witch, that be."

"It be a terrifying thing to think of,"

said another. " Only think of going into
the earth and stopping for days, like a
corpse."

Nay, but she didn't do that ? "

^^ Eh, but she did, for Frank Goodsell
went every day to her cottage to see if she
was there, pretending he wanted a charm
for a pain in his wife's leg ; and he had to
go ten days before he found her back, and
then she was as quiet and smiling as could
be, only she looked white and very terrifying
to see."

^^ Ah, lots of us wondered how she used to
live. She'll be back there soon ; you see,
they'll never get her to burn ; and, if they
do, she'll hart the place, and make it bad
for everybody. I'm not going to throw a
stone at her, poor soul."

'^ Poor soul, indeed, why she bent got
one. She sold it to old what-his name
long ago"

"Eh, but it be very horrid, said the woman

with the child; and I half wish I had not
come to see her burned to death."

She won't burn''

*nay," said another, 'rit be very terrifying
; but she'll be dead 'fore they burn her,
if they don't be smart. Think of it, though :
Mother Goodhugh going to be burned for a
witch."

'^ I don't quite like the old woman to be
burnt. How wist she looks ! " said the
young mother, as she stared at the preparations.


^* Hold thy tongue, do," said another;
'' the country be better without her."

'' Ay, it was time something was done
now the holy father's gone, and Parson
Peasegood won't do naught to exorcise the
witch."

'* You went to him, didn't a ?"

'* Ay, I went to him and told him o' Mother
Goodhugh's doings, and how she put a

spell on our cow, and evil-wished neighbour
Lewis's boy''

^^ What did he say?"

'' Laughed at me and puffed smoke in my
face. ' Go to says he, * for a fool. Thou
must get some one to sew some more buttons
on thee. Mother Groodhugh be no witch.' "

^^ Did he say that?"

'' Ay, that he did, and when Betsy Good-sell
saw the white spirit o' Sweet Mace,
in the wood near the high rocks and went
and asked parson to lay it, he got in such a
rage that Betsy had to go."

She should ha' took him an offering and
then he would."

'' She did. She took him a two-pound
lump o' the fresh butter from her cow after
putting a lump o' salt i' the churn to keep
out the witch, and told him what she wanted
done, and he ups with the butter and throws
it at her, and it stuck on the door-post till

Mistress Hilberry come and took it off ; and
when she heard what was wanted she said
Parson ought to do it, and then he called
her a silly fool''

^^ What did she want Parson to do ? "
'' To do, why, to lay the spirit that kept
walking uneasily night after night. Ay,
and it keeps walking now, as a dozen Roe-hurst
folk could tell, only they won't speak
about it for fear of doing themselves ill."
^' What did Betsy want him to do ? "
** Why, just go and cut a piece o' turf off
her grave about a hand-breadth long and a
hand-breadth wide, and lay it on the holy
table in the church, and after that be done
the spirit rests and doesn't trouble people
any more''

^' He might ha' done that," said the

young mother. *' I should say it would be

wise to get a bit off Mother Goodhugh's

grave by-and-by to keep her from walking."

'^ Eh, but you'll never find grass grow

upon her grave, lass. It will always be
black and scathed like."

^* Nay, they'll never bury her in no
grave. She'll be scattered in dust and ashes
to the four winds o' heaven."

'^ Or the other place," said one of the
women, sententiously, and then they all
watched the preparations.

^' Hush ! Look ! " cried the young mother
in an excited whisper ; and a strange
murmur ran through the crowd as, at a
sign from Sir Thomas, whose florid face was
blanched, and blotched with livid patches, a
man ran into the cottage with a rough torch.

Master Peasegood saw that the end had
come, and, pressing against the pile of
faggots which reached up round the victim's
neck, he reached over one hand and touched
her cheek.

*^ Courage, poor soul!" he cried earnestly.
*^ Pray with me for mercy in that other
land."

The wretched woman seemed to be
brought back by the parson's voice, and she
stared at him in a curiously dazed manner,
her lips moving at last in a whisper that
could not be heard.

'* Pray with me, my poor soul — let us
pray," cried Master Peasegood eagerly.

No," she said sharply. *' It be too late.
I want to do some good before I die."

^' And it is too late for that," said Master
Peasegood to himself, as the excited murmur
of the crowd went on.

'^ No, not to do — to say something, Master
— and — and it seems all gone. Yes; I
know," she cried, striving hard to hold up
her head, which fell back again heavily
upon her chest. " No, I can't remember.
Yes, Mace, come here, child. I'll give thee
to thy father now."

Poor soul, she wanders," muttered Master
Peasegood. Then aloud :— '' Try to
pray with me, mother. Try — one word."

^' Yes, I was not a witch, master. It was

only Where be Jeremiah Cobbe ?

Here, let me tell him — quick."

^* He cannot reach thee now, poor
soul. Pray with me quickly. Oh, Father
have "

^' Mace. Here — quick, child, come. Poor
sweet — I had to fight hard to hate thee.
My head— my head''

Master Peasegood stretched out a hand
to try and sustain the palsied head.

'^ Stand back, sir'' cried Sir Mark fiercely
; and he laid his hand upon Master
Peasegood's arm, but the stout cleric shook
him off.

^^Back yourself, sir," he cried, ^^an' you
would not singe your gaudy plumes. My
place is here."

Sir Mark stood back, for at that moment
the smoking, flaming torch was thrust into
the brushwood, which began to crackle and
burn furiously, while a pillar of smoke rose

high in the still autumn air, in company with
a shriek from the women, some of whom
turned away, while others covered their
faces with their hands.

The torch was thrust into the faggots
again and again, four times in all, and at
each thrust there was a burst of flame and a
cloud of smoke ; but Master Peasegood
stirred not, though the flames licked his long
black garb.

The torch-bearer then rose up, and was in
the act of thrusting his light right in the
centre of the pile, when a strong hand seized
it, wrenched it from his hand, and hurled it,
as the man staggered back, full in the face
of Sir Mark.

A loud chirping whistle rang out at the
same moment, and a score of the rough
country fellows in long libertines, who had
been so busy in helping, now took advantage
of their forward position to seize the burning

faggots and hurl them furiously at the armed
men.

Almost before the crowd could realise what
was taking place, the flaming brushwood was
scattered far and wide, and amidst the smoke
a tally bronzed fellow was seen cutting Mother
Goodhugh free.

'' Take her, Wat ; she's as light as any
child," he cried, in a clear voice. '' Lead on,
we'll cover you."

'' Down with them ! " shouted Sir Mark, ashe
recovered from his astonishment; and,
drawing his sword, he made a rush at the
disturbers of the judicial tragedy.

His first attempt, though, was unfortunate,
for he fell over the prostrate body of Master
Peasegood, who had been overset in the
struggle; and his men hung back as they
saw the rough-looking countrymen whip out
the weapons they had concealed beneath
their libertines, and form a bold front.

There was ample room, for the crowd fled
shrieking as the bright steel flashed before
their eyes. They had gazed in a stupefied,
puzzled manner at the disturbance of the
faggot pile, and wondered whether it was
part of the show or the result of witchcraft ;
but the bold rescue of the wretched woman
they could understand, and they hastened to
find safety in flight.

Sir Mark was not long in recovering himself,
and, calling to the armed men to follow,
he pursued the retiring party, which retreated
steadily along the narrow track, which, after
it had passed Mother Goodhugh's, gradually
assumed the nature of a forest footpath, and
grew more rugged at every step.

Attempts were made to outflank the party,
but the density of the forest rendered that
impossible, and those who left the path lost
ground, while Sir Mark found himself kept at
bay by the rear-guard of the retreating men.

'^ These are no countrymen," he muttered

VOL. III. Q.

to himself, as he saw how steadily they kept
up the retreat ; and he was in the act of
cheering on his little force to make a rush
where the pathway opened a little, when
cries from behind warned him that he was
attacked in the rear.

He bit his lip angrily as he found how
cleverly his men were trapped, for it was
evident enough that a portion of those he
pursued had turned off to right or left,
allowing him and his men to pass, and then
closing up to attack, this rear movement
being the signal for those in front to turn
and make a desperate charge upon him and
his London men.

It was so sharp a surprise that, at the end
of five minutes' cutting and thrusting. Sir
Mark was down, faint and sick from a slash
across the cheek, and his men had thrown up
their weapons and fled helter-skelter through
the forest, leaving the rescuers of Mother
Goodhugh to proceed in peace.

^' Single file, my lads, and away! " cried a
well-known voice. ^^ One of you relieve
Wat Kilby, and change and change as you
grow fagged Wat, go round by the lower
stream. I'll come last and hide the trail."

It required little hiding, for the men passed
on and disturbed the herbage but slightly,
while, after turning off to right and left in
various narrow half-hidden tracks, their
course could not have been discovered by
the keenest eye, especially as one cut was
made right across the forest. •

Not a word was spoken, and the roughly-clad,
brown-faced men went steadily on.
Their load was changed from time to time,
and after a while a stoppage was made by
a stream, where Mother Goodhugh's face
was bathed, and the leader, whom it would
have puzzled his best friends to have taken
for Gilbert Carr, knelt beside her, and poured
a few drops of spirits between her lips.

'^ Think she's burned, captain?" said a

Q 2

rough voice that could be none other than
that of Wat Kilby.

^^No," was the reply, ^' but I fear we
were too late. She will hardly live to our
journey's end. Forward, my lads, forward !
Did anyone see aught of Master Cobbe ? "

I saw him turn away and go behind the
cart," said one of the men. ^' He was not in
the fight."

'' And Master Peasegood?"

'' I helped him up, captain, and he staggered
to the bank, and sat down on a half-burned
faggot."

Then they are all right," said the captain,
musingly. " Wat, we shall have to be
off to sea again at once. This affair will
make the country too hot to hold us."

^^ Why did you do it then?" growled the
old man, gruffly, as he limped along, his
scarred face shining in the sun. ^' She was no
good, and will only curse us for our pains."

'^ Well, Wat," said the captain, sadly.

'^ and if she does, we can bear another curse
or too."

*^ Ay, or a hundred," was the reply.

It was a hot walk, through the still woods
and over streams and ravine-scored hills.
The men, as they grew heated, stripped off
their rough country Saxon libertines, and
appeared as light, active seamen of the time,
one and all taking turns in carrying Mother
Goodhugh, for whom a rough kind of hurdle
had been hastily twisted together, and upon
it she was laid.

At last the little party was ascending one
rugged side of the valley where Anne
Beckley lead been left to wait the coming of
her lover ; and after a weary climb the men
all had a rest, seating themselves by the
spring that gushed from the rocks where the
ferns and mosses hung, and after tempering
the clear fluid with spirit they began to
smoke.

*^ Let her rest for a time," said Gil ; ^^ there

is no danger here. Poor soul ! A narrow
escape from death." As he spoke he covered
the wretched creature with a cloak, and
placed a doubled gaberdine beneath her
head.

He again trickled a few drops of spirits
between the cracked white lips ; and, after
watching its effects, he rose from his knees,
leaving Wat Kilby to fill his little pipe.

'^ Not much of a job after a twelvemonths'
cruise," muttered Wat, as he limped uneasily
up and down, ^^but better than leaving the
poor old lass to burn. She's too old and
ugly, or she might have done ; for I want
a wife. Bah ! No. She wouldn't do. She's
not the witch I want. Eh ! captain, did
you call ? "

^^ Yes," was the reply; and, on rising, the
old lieutenant scrambled up to where Gil,
who looked bronzed and ten years older,
stood pointing to the stones at the mouth of
the store.

^^ Not been touched, eh, skipper ? " said the
old fellow.

^^ No; not by anything more than a rabbit,"
said Gil, in a grave, quiet voice. 'get
up the bars when the lads are rested. We
shall have to stay here for the night."

CHAPTER XIV.

HOW WAT Kirby FIRED A TRAIN AND MOTHER
GOODHUGII SPOKE.

Gil sat down beside the old woman and remained
thinking of what had taken place
during the past year. He had sailed away,
reckless and heartbroken, caring little where
he went, and, after discharging cargo in one
of the Spanish ports, he had taken in provisions,
and, his men rather welcoming the
change, he had made sail for the far East,
touching at Ceylon ; then on to the Eastern
Islands, the lands of spices and strange
growths. It was an aimless voyage, but they
took in small articles of cargo — silk here,
rice there, and dye-woods ; and then sailing



further went north and east to China and
Japan, before the vessel's stem was turned
once more for home.

For a strange sense of longing had come
over Gil Carr. Months back he had felt
that he could never see Roehurst more.
Then came the change, with its longing
void in his heart. Night and day it was
ever the same. There was the old place
before his eyes, and a something tugging at
his heartstrings to draw him back. The
face of Sweet Mace seemed gazing appealingly
in his as it asked him to come and
save her.

^' Save her — from what ?" he cried passionately,
as he paced up and down the little
deck, looking wild-eyed and strange, while his
men whispered the one to the other, and he
set his teeth firmly and his eyes flashed with
anger, for he knew they thought him mad.

It was the work of a minute almost. They
were sailing into a fresh port in Japan,

where they could see the strangely-dressed
people staring at the new comers from the
decks of their junks, when Gil suddenly
gave orders — he recalled it all — orders to
'bout ship, and they were obeyed without a
word.

It was not until they had been sailing on
for days that Wat Kilby had come to him
with the gruff question, ^^ Where to now,
skipper ? "

'^ Home ! " was the single word spoken in
reply ; and then, as he stood gazing straight
before him at the wide expanse of ocean,
there arose from the crew a tremendous
cheer.

He recalled it all — how he had stood
gazing there while order after order was
given by Wat Kilby ; how sail after sail had
been set and the little vessel careened to the
breeze ; while ever before him, with a smile
upon her face, the figure of Mace seemed to
stand waving him on.

And so it had been during the homeward
voyage. Every sail the vessel would bear
had been kept set, and she seemed to skim
over the sea in fair weather, and to battle
bravely in foul, to get back to the little river
and her ancient moorings beneath the trees.

He recalled telling himself that he was
mad, for this was but another phase of his
humour. But a short time back he was
restless to get farther and farther away ;
now he had conjured up this phantasy to
call him back — back to what ?

A bitter sob would struggle from his heart
as he told himself it was to gaze again upon
poor Mace's grave.

Always there, sleeping or waking, never
shut from his mental vision, that sweet, pale
face smiling at him as the ship sped on ; and
only when forced by want of provisions did
they enter port, till once more upon the tide
the weather-beaten ship rode safely into the
mouth of the little river. Then the big

boat was lowered and manned, a tow-rope
run out, and the men pulled cheerily to keep
the little vessel's head straight as she glided
on up the fast narrowing stream, till the spars
nearly touched the branches on either side,
and her old moorings were made.

Wat Kilby played the jiart of spy, and
went ashore, for now that they were back
the fancy that had floated before Gil's eyes
had been seen no more ; and moody and
despondent he had shrunk from leaving his
ship.

It was Wat Kilby then who made his way
over the hills and through the forest to the
village, and had borne back the news which
stirred Gil to action ; and for Mace's sake,
as he said, he had determined to save poor
old Mother Goodhugh from so horrible a
fate.

'^ She would have urged me to do it," he
said to himself; and, making his plans, he
had been successful ; while there, half dead,

the poor creature lay, with the adventurer
sitting meditating by her side.

'' What shall I do now ? " said Gil to himself
in a bitter tone. '^ Set sail again, I
suppose, for this Sir Mark, unless too busy
with his wedding, will try to hunt us down.

*^ Well, let him come if he will," he
added, wearily, and then rising. *^ Now, my
lads ! " he cried, '^ to work."

His men jumped up ; and as he stood by,
watching and thinking how in one year the
ferns and wild plants set in the crevices had
concealed the mouth of the store, iron bars
and shovels were plied, the stones loosened
and thrown aside, till at last only one large
piece remained, and that had so tightly
wedged itself in that it resisted all their
efforts to dislodge it.

*^ Come boys," Wat Kilby cried, " have
you left all your strength in the Indies ?
Lay to at it with a will. Now, all together
heave ho ! "

As lie spoke he brought his whole strength
to bear upon it, but dropped the bar directly-after,
and stood shaking his head ; for he
had never recovered from the terrible burns
and injuries he had received at the explosion
injuries that had left him for months a
helpless invalid during the early part of the
voyage, and a cripple for life.

^^ Skipper," he said, '^ I'm not quite so
strong as I was, and my bones don't seem to
be knit together as they were. It'll take
some pounds o' Mas' Cobbe's best to lift that
out."

Gil frowned, for the old man's speech
brought up a host of painful recollections.

*^ Shall we get up some powder, skipper? "
said Wat.

'^ And fire the barrels that are in the
store?" said Gil sternly.

^^ Nay," growled the old fellow; '* we
could hoist out that stone without reaching
any that is in yonder : it is too far away."

'^ Get it then," said Gil indifferently; and
a couple of men were despatched to the ship,
returning after some two or three hours with
the keg, which they carried in turn.

Mother Goodhugh had not moved, but lay
in a kind of stupor with half-closed eyes,
Gil sitting near and dreaming over the
past.

A slight rustle near him made him gaze
upwards once to see a rabbit scurry away
from a hole beneath the great stone, and
this he marked as suitable for laying the
charge to lift away the mass.

At last, the men came toiling up the steep
ascent, and Wat Kilby busied himself in
preparing a mine that should do what was
required without further damage to the
store.

It was soon done — a train laid, and a fuse
prepared. Then Mother Goodhugh was
carefully lifted and laid behind a corner of
the rock, here harm could not befall her,

and Wat Kilby stood ready to fire the fuse
after seeing all the men were safe.

^* Now, captain," he said, " as soon as you
like."

^* Stop a moment," said Gil, thoughtfully,
though all the time he was experiencing a
fierce longing to enter the cave once more.

'^ What for, captain ?" said Wat gruffly,
as he puffed at his pipe.

*^ The sound may be heard, and bring Sir
Mark's fellows down."

*nay," cried Wat, ^'the noise will run
down the valley and out to sea, my lad.
They'll not hear it inland, I lay my life.
Bah ! and if they did, what then ? No one
could find his way here without a guide."

*' Go on, then," said Gil quietly ; and,
drawing back to the shelter of a little
recess, he stood watching the acts of Wat
Kilby, a famous old gunner in his way, as,
after puffing at his pipe to make it glow, he
just touched the end of the fuse, laid the

other end by the train, and limped coolly to
the captain's side.

From the rocky recess they could see the
fuse sparkle and burn rapidly away, and
listen to the buzz of the voices of the crew
as they talked of the explosion ; then a zigzag
line of fire seemed to run along amongst
the heather and ferns ; there was a blinding
flash, a thick white smoke, and, lastly, a
heavy dull roar that rolled down the ravine,
and the fall of masses of the splintered rock.

The smoke rose slowly over the face of
the cliff, showing the grey and blackened
traces where the fire had blasted bush and
tree ; while, where the large block of sandstone
had lain was now a dark opening, the
rock having been lifted right away, reft in
twain, and thrown some yards down the
slope.

'^ There, skipper," growled Wat, as he
limped along, and the men came up ;

VOL. III. R

'^ there be not a cask split inside I'll wager,
and a few showers of rain will hide all the
marks."

Gil nodded.

'^ Four of you bring the old woman along,"
lie said. ^' We'll make her a bed inside.
Good God!"

He was startled at what he saw, for the
explosion seemed to have roused Mother
Goodhugh, who came crawling painfully
towards them to raise herself upon her
knees and point, and struggle to speak.

'^ Yes, yes'' she cried. ^^ Powder, powder
the cursed stuff. Cobbe's work ; Cobbe's
work. He slew my dear with it, and now —
ha, ha, ha ! I have brought it home to him.
Listen, boy, come here."

Gil stepped to her side, sid she clutched
at his wrist, and clung to it, as she turned
her ashy, distorted face to him, but only for
it to droop back upon her chest so that she

gazed at him in a way that was horribly
grotesque.

^* Listen ; do you hear. She wanted it
stopped — that wedding — Mistress Anne — the
jealous fool, and paid me for it all. I did —
I stopped it. Do you hear ? I got the key
the powder-cellar, and laid a train — a
long, long, train all the way to the cellar,
and hid myself in the garden — there safe
away. Do you see?, just down yonder,"
she panted, pointing to the part of the
ravine from which she had crawled.

^^I did it — I did it. I waited hours and
hours till you came by me — all of you, and
began to fight with Sir Mark's men — and then
I struck with my flint and steel — and the fire
ran along the ground — and the powder blew
up as it did when I lost my dear, and — and
why is it daylight? Why does the sunshine?"
she continued, gazing wildly from
one to the other.

r2

'' She's daft," growled Wat. " Poor soul !
they have frightened away her wits."

^^ Silence," cried Gil. '^ Let her speak."

*^ Who says I'm daft?" cried Mother
Goodhugh, gathering strength. '^ I am not ;
but I know, I know. Ha, ha, ha! I wanted
to stop the wedding and make my words
come true. It was a judgment, too, on Mas'
Jeremiah Cobbe, and I fired his powder-store."


^' She thinks it is a year ago," muttered
Gil, gazing at her with horror.

Yes, yes. I've had my revenge," muttered
the old woman, gazing round wildly,
as she struggled to keep her head erect, 'sand
burnt his place. He has paid me now for my
dearies, whom he killed. Poor souls ! poor
souls ! One so white and cold when they drew
him from the water ; the other so blackened
and so burned. But she was not so burned.
Poor child! poor child! poor child!"

'^ Mother Goodhugh," cried Gil hoarsely,
^' did you fire the Pool-house ?"

Yes, yes, yes ; the powder'' gibbered
the old woman, as she dragged her head up,
and it once more fell back upon her chest.
'* I did it well ; and now I'll forgive him.
I'll curse Mas' Cobbe no more. I did it just
now. You heard it roar. See, it has burned
my hands — my hair, but never mind ; I've
had revenge''

^' Then it was you who fired the powder
there— that dreadful night," cried Gil furiously,
as he clutched the weak old creature
by the throat.

'^ Yes, I did it," chuckled the old woman ;
then, throwing up her hands as if in pain —
^^but Sweet Mace — poor Sweet Mace — they
thought it killed her, too. I hated her ; and
yet, no ; she was very good and sweet. I
saw him bring her out— yes, it was you —
and laid her — dead upon the ground. Yes, I
saw ; and she turned to a white spirit— yes.

white spirit — and she comes to see me — no :
does she ? — I can't think — it was just now I
got her out, and she has come to me ever
since, so white and sad, and she looks at me
always with her great soft eyes. Poor child !
poor girl ! I've wept about her sore, for she
was as good and gentle as Mistress Anne was
bad."

The spirit was in Gil Carr to strangle the
old woman as she made her hideous confession,
but her words of pity for sweet Mace
disarmed him, and he let her sink to the
earth, where she crouched, gazing feebly
from one to the other, and fighting hard to
sustain her tottering head.

^^ Yes, yes, yes," she moaned piteously ;
^^ she comes looking so white and sad to ask
me why I killed her, and it makes my heart
so sore. But I shall bring her to her senses
again some day, perhaps — some day. Hush,
hush ! not a word. If you speak she goes
again. There — there — look, look !" cried the

old woman in a hoarse whisper, as, throwing
one arm round Gil's leg, she leaned her head
against it, steadied herself, and pointed with
her skinny fingers. '^ Yes, there she be.
Poor child ! poor child ! Mace, child, I did
not mean to harm thee. Wilt forgive me,
dear ? See ! see ! "

As she pointed they glanced in the direction
indicated by the old woman's finger,
and Gil uttered a cry, for in the dark,
powder-riven entry to the store, and not a
dozen yards away, stood a weird figure with
long, flowing hair. The arms and shoulders
were bare, and the white hands covered the
face, giving it as it stood in the obscurity of
the cave a spiritual look that made even the
least superstitious of the party — Gil himself
shudder, feeling that he was in the presence
of a being of another world.

CHAPTER XV.

HOW CULVERIN CARR SOLVED A PROBLEM.

Sweet Mace stood motionless in the opening,
a soft blue reek floating gently out from the
store, as the damp air of the place was
driven forth by a downward current through
a fissure far in its depths ; and this, as it
surrounded the rescued prisoner, added to
the unreality of the scene. For the figure
was seen through a medium that rendered it
unsubstantial in aspect, added to which the
deadly whiteness of the brow and hands
made it look unnatural to a degree.

For some time no one spoke. The men
grouped together, stared at the strange apparition
in the cavern mouth, and Wat Kilby

gazed from it to his leader and back, while
Ie soft wind wafted the blue haze from the
opening away from the motionless figure, and
then enveloped it again, as if it were part
and parcel of the subterranean abode, and it
sought to draw its occupant back to its
shades.

Mother Goodhugh was the first to break
the silence, as, crawling towards the place on
hands and knees, she crouched at last at
Mace's feet, and lay there, panting.

'^ She has come from the dead to fetch
me'' moaned the old woman, whose reason
seemed to wander. '^ I know her. See how
white, and cold, and strange she is. My
child, my child, I killed thee, I killed thee ;
and now — now — have pity on me ! have
pity ! I be not a witch''

She grovelled lower and lower, clasping
Mace's bare, white feet, and laid her cheek
against them, while, still keeping one hand

across her eyes, the poor girl bent down
slowly, and touched the crouching wretch.

Gil had remained motionless till now ; but
as he saw the figure move, his faith in its
being supernatural was shaken, and with a
loud cry he ran forward with outstretched
hands.

Mace," he cried, hoarsely, ^^ speak tome,
oh, speak ! "

He had not touched her, for in his surprise
it seemed possible, after Mother Good-hugh's
words, that the woman he loved had
come back from the dead, but still his common
sense revolted, while his eyes asserted
that it was true.

As he spoke Mace rose upright again, but
without removing her hand from her eyes,
and Gil saw that her long hair was grey as
that of some venerable dame ; that the slight
garment she wore was ragged, and that her
fingers were torn and bleeding fast.

He could not tell what it meant ; how she
came to be there ; but the idea of the supernatural
was cleared away, and, making an
effort over his slavish dread, he caught the
disengaged hand in his.

It was like ice, but his touch broke the
spell, for, with a piteous cry, Mace tottered
and would have fallen had not Gil caught
her in his arms.

She was deathly cold, and as he bore her
to a spot where the soft turf was dotted with
purple heather he saw that her eyelids were
tightly closed, and her brow knit as if with
pain ; and, judging that the glow of sunshine
caused her to suffer, he laid a kerchief
across her eyes before clasping her icy hands
and trickling a few drops of water between
her lips.

A host of confusing thoughts rushed
through his brain, the only substantial one
he could grasp being that Mace must have

gone to the cavern to seek him, and then
have been shut in.

But this idea was driven away on the
instant by an older recollection, one which
made him groan in the anguish of his heart.

'' My love is dead," he panted. ^' Did not
these hands lay her in her grave ? God in
heaven have mercy on me ! Am I going
mad ^ "

^^ Skipper," whispered a voice at his side,
and looking up he saw old Wat standing
with dilated eyes, pointing down at the
insensible figure. '^ Skipper," the old fellow
whispered hoarsely, ^^ we can't cowards, but
the old woman be a witch after all. Come
away, come away! "

In his strange confusion of mind, Gil was
for the moment ready to accept this theory,
and he gazed down at the weird figure
beside him, and then at Mother Goodhugh,
where she lay. Was there really truth then

in witchcraft, and had this old woman the
power to recall the dead ?

He looked at the deathly white face, the
white hair, then at the cave mouth, and the
surroundings of the bright sunlit ravine, and
his group of wonder-stricken men, and then
his every-day common sense prevailed. It
was no myth, no trick of witchcraft, but a
living, breathing form. It was Mace, the
dead restored, his lost love, she whom he
had mourned. How it was he did not know,
neither could he stop to consider while she
lay helpless by his side. Mace lived again,
and the mystery must rest.

"Wat," he cried, as like a flash of lightning
the thought entered his brain. " The
dead — the grave — it was Janet who was
killed."

The old man shook his head, but Gil paid
no heed, for a low sigh had just escaped
from Mace's lips, and, bending down, he
raised her head upon his arm, swept aside

her long grey hair, and kissed her stony
brow.

It was enough for him that she lived —
that she whom he had mourned was restored
to him, and raising the kerchief slightly he
gazed in silent wonderment at the fast-closed
eyes.

Then he awoke to the fact that it was
time for action, and not for wonder, and
rousing himself he began to give orders.

^* Quick, my lads," he cried; ^^make up
a couch of the sailcloth in yonder, and carry
in yon poor old creature. Wat, have a fire
lit, then cut some of the ling, and make
another couch."

Their leader's words broke the spell that
seemed to have charmed the men, who
hurriedly obeyed, while Gil strove hard to
restore the icy frame he held to consciousness,
trembling lest the shock had been
too severe, and fighting hard to keep his
brain from dwelling upon the mystery.

'^ Dead ! " whispered a voice at his ear,
and a pang shot through his breast as he
gazed in horror at the face resting against
his heart.

'^ No ! " he cried hoarsely. ^^ Dog ! you
lie"

'^ No, no, skipper : the old witch— Mother
Goodhugh. She be gone."

Art sure ? " cried Gil, with a sigh of
relief.

Certain, skipper. She was almost gone
before."

Heaven forgive her ! " said Gil, softly.
Wat, lay her decently in the furthest part
of the store till we can put her to rest. See
that a couch is ready. Poor sweet ! she
cannot bear the light."

As he spoke, handling her as tenderly as
if she had been an infant, Gil rose up and
bore the insensible girl into the store, where
the state of the objects around told him

plainly that she must have been a prisoner
for months.

In a few minutes' time he had her lying
upon a bed of soft heather, softened with a
sail and a couple of heavy cloaks for coverts,
as he sought to infuse warmth, and
with it life.

As evening came on, Gil knelt beside the
motionless figure upon the rough couch, in
an agony of spirit, for, in spite of all his
efforts. Mace seemed to be slipping away
from him once again.

He had fancied that the marble coldness
that had struck a chill to his heart was not
so marked, but he could not be sure ; and
at last, after trickling spirits between the
white lips, and trying all he could to promote
warmth, he knelt there waiting despairingly
for the result.

The sun had descended beyond the hills,
turning the far west into one blaze of mellow

golden glory ; there was a faint twittering
from the linnets and finches that hung about
the bushes on the steep slopes and crags ;
and on one rugged old hawthorn, whose
roots were thrust amongst the rifts and crags
of the sandstone, a solitary thrush was singing
his evening hymn.

As Gil watched the face of her who lay
there as rigid almost as if in death, it
seemed to him that the soft sweet face that
looked so smooth and young, and yet so old,
was not so ashy white as a short time before ;
but directly after he realised the fact that
the warm sunset flush was reflected into the
store, and with a groan of despair he bent
down and kissed the cold lips, and tried to
breathe into the icy frame the vigour that
throbbed and bounded in every nerve and
vein of his own.

But no : there was no movement, and at
last, when Wat K.ilby came softly up to say
that one of the look-out men had encountered

VOL. III. s

a Roehurst founder, and learned from him
that Sir Mark and Mistress Anne were married
and gone away, and that there was no
pursuit, Gil bade him sternly begone, for he
muttered :

'' The old wound is torn asunder, and I
must seek for consolation with the dead."

That she might live was Gil's prayer ; that,
if a victim were needed to offer up to death,
his own poor worthless life might be taken.
For it was agony indeed. He had begun
to carry his load of misery with patient
resignation, and had been content to revisit
the spots where so many happy hours had
been spent ; but to come back to this was
more than he could bear.

The warm glow of the setting sun died
out, to leave all ashy grey, and in mute despair
Gil gazed down upon the white, rigid
face before him. How cold she was, and
how changed ! Her silver hair, as it lay dishevelled
around, formed a soft halo about

the placid face, for the contraction of the
brow had passed away, and, with the fading
of the light, the drawn and pained expression
of the eyelids had given place to a peaceful
look that inspired him with awe. While
though at times he fancied that she breathed,
it was so faintly that he could not be sure,
the icy coldness seemed to increase.

As the night drew on Gil knew it was
impossible to get help, and in his despair
he felt that he could only wait and hope.
His men, saving those who watched, contrived
themselves a rough tent under *the
shelter of the over-hanging rock, and at last,
as the fire they had made died out, Gil knelt
there alone with her who had been his boyhood's
love, his manhood's deepest passion,
and, feeling that she was gliding from him
once again, he flung himself by her side,
clasped the icy form to his breast, and
sought by his despairing kisses to win from
it some token of life.

s2

It was in vain, and the warmth ho sought
to impart fled from his own breast to receive
back the icy chill from hers.

The night stole on, and the soft whispers
from the forest atomic were heard from time
to time, or a withered leaf fell with a noise
that was striking in the stillness atomic.
Sometimes an owl swept past the cavern's
mouth on ghostly wing, making its presence
known by its strange cry. The stars glittered
and blinked and shed their soft light,
while from time to time a faint breeze from
the sea swept through the forest and up the
glade, where it sighed and seemed to sob as
it appeared to enter the cavern, and then
fled shivering away.

Now and again some muttered word or
uneasy motion on the part of one of the
men could be heard, and at stated times the
gaunt form of Wat Kilby was seen to go
limping past, as he changed his sentries.
Then the hours slipped by, and Gil still lay

there clasping the senseless form to his
breast — the form of the dead he told himself
again and again, till utterly worn out with
grief and despair a stupor more than a sleep
fell upon him, and the present passed away.

It was broad daylight, and a faint flush
of the coming sunshine was reflected from
the side of the ravine visible from where Gril
lay, while for a few moments he could not
collect his thoughts. There was a strange
buoyant feeling in his breast to which it had
long been a stranger, and he lay wondering
what it meant, till, like a flood, the recollection
of the past night came upon him, and
with a groan he turned his eyes to gaze
upon the sweet, dead face of her he loved ;
but only to start up on his elbow, trembling
with dread lest he should have been deceived.


For it was no icy marble frame that he had
clasped to his breast. The warm life-blood
of his heart had seemed to communicate its

vitality to her who lay insensible there, and
sent the current of life, that month by
month had grown more sluggish in its
course, bounding through artery and vein
once more ; and, as he bent lower and lower,
it was to feel Mace's soft, warm breath upon
his cheeks.

He caught her hand in his and placed it
on his breast. It was icy cold, but it was
not deathly ; and, when in a passion of thankfulness
and joy he rained his kisses on brow
and lips, the clammy, rigid feeling had quite
passed away.

He knew that she lived ; but there was no
reply to his caresses. Asleep or in a strange
stupor, he could not tell which ; but as he
released her she lay back motionless, save
that her breast heaved softly, and her
breathing was regular and slow.

He spoke to her with his lips to her ear,
but there was no reply ; he raised her in his
arms and gazed in her pale face, but still

there was no response ; and, trembling lest
she should again slip from him, he softly
laid her head upon the rough pillow and
tried to think of some plan to fan the tiny
spark of life into a warmer glow.

Rousing his followers, and regardless now
of discovery, so that he could gain help,
Gil despatched Wat Kilby to Roehurst, and
others to the ship and the nearest town, the
result being, that the same evening the insensible
girl was carefully borne to Crowley's
cottage, near her ruined home.

CHAPTER XVI.

HOW SWEET MACE AWAKENED ON HER WEDDING-day.


A SENSATION of intense heat. Then a feeling
as if her head were on fire, followed by a
terrible pain.

How long this lasted Mace never knew, but
she lay there confused and troubled. One
feeling, however, was dominant. It was
very nearly the time when Gil would be
beneath the window, and she must take off
that wedding dress, and send her maid
away.

What a mockery it was, that dress,
and how hot and clammy it seemed. She

shuddered in one of her more lucid moments,
as it struck her that it was like a
winding-sheet, and she recalled that she had
often wished herself dead.

How dark it was, and how steaming and
hot. Drip, drip, drip, drip. The noise of
dripping water, every drip seemed as if it
struck upon her brain, and caused her suffering.
Why, it rained !

Well, what matter? What was rain to
Gil, who, in his frail ship, dared the greatest
storms that blew ?

He would come, let the weather be what
it might.

Then she seemed to be overcome with
sleep, to awake once more with the pain less
and her head clearer.

Drip, drip, drip. The rain still falling,
and she felt, in a helpless way, that she
must have been to sleep again, and began to
wonder how long Gil would be.

It was still intensely dark, and very close

and stifling, the heat seemed to be more
than she could bear.

How long would Gil be ? Poor fellow,
how cruelly he must have felt It to hear
that she was to wed another, and — yes.
Why, had not Janet taken off the wedding
dress before she lay down to sleep.

How bad her head had been. She never
remembered to have suffered such pains
before ; and then that terrible thirst ! How
horribly she had dreamed, too. She recollected
now; a horrible dream. First, Gil
had clasped her in his arms ; then it was not
Gil, but Sir Mark ; and even now she shuddered
at the thoughts of the grim shade
which had come next.

But it was a dream consequent upon the
excitement she had gone through ; and now
she had awakened, and it must be time for
Gil to be beneath her window.

She did not attempt to rise, for the strange
feeling of stupor still held her, and she lay



quite still, till the thought that she might
have slept too long came and sent a thrill
through her brain, and she started up to
listen, becoming conscious of a strange, suffocating
odour as of dank, hot mist.

How black it was ! She could not see the
window, and, with the confused sensation of
one waking in the darkness, she sat gazing
about and listening.

Still that ceaseless drip, drip, drip, of
water, but the gurgle of the water-pipe that
went down by the side of the gable was not
there, and it suddenly struck her that she
could not hear the familiar rushing noise of
the race, where the water hurried towards
the wheel.

She stretched out her hand to rise from
the bed, and it touched something rough and
hard, making her withdraw it, but only to
stretch it forth again and find that she was
touching wood and roughened stone.

'^ Where am I?" she said, softly; and as

she spoke she made out tin" sparks of
light.

Gil's signals ! " she cried. " But why
does he show them now ? "

She tried to get off the bed, but no bed
was there ; and, after feeling about for a few
minutes, she clasped her hands to her head.

'' What does this terrible silence mean ? "
she faltered. ^' Where am I ? Where is
Gil?"

There was the slow drip of the water for
answer — nothing more ; and she tried to recall
the past.

I have been to sleep," she said, " heavily
asleep : and yet I don't know."

She tried to collect her thoughts, but
seemed to grow more confused.

I must have been very ill," she said, at
last. " And it began directly I had drunk
of that water. But how long is it ago ? And
why is it so dark? Where am I ?

Weak and prostrated by the terrible shock

she had suffered, a curious sensation of stupor
overcame her once more, and she crouched
down to save herself from falling, as she
dropped into a feverish sleep.

When she awoke again her head was
clearer, but she was terribly weak. It was
dark as ever, but the suffocating feeling had
gone, and she could no longer see the signal
lights, but the peculiar drip, drip, of water
was there.

'* I must have slept again long past the
time when Gil would come," she said, with
a wild feeling of yearning for him ; and now
again she tried to make out where she was.

'' 1 must be mad ! " she exclaimed in a
despairing tone, and she started, for her
voice seemed followed by a hollow whispering
murmur, that sent a shudder through
her frame.

Crouching down once more, she waited
with eyes and ears on the strain, but still
there was nothing to be seen, no sound to

be heard but that ceaseless drip, drip of
water that fell with a faint musical plash
somewhere hard by.

But her senses were gradually growing
clearer, her perceptions more vivid, and she
tried to make out what was the meaning of
a peculiar heavy odour.

^' It is powder ! " she exclaimed, with a
shudder. " Can there have been a mishap
while I slept ? "

She paused, trying to think, and her
senses grew clearer still.

'^ Yes, it is powder ; there must have been
an explosion ;" and she recalled the strange,
dank, pungent odour that she had often
breathed when some accident had occurred.

But when ? How could the powder
have fired ? "

She tried hard to think it out : but her
mind was still too confused, and in a helpless
manner she groped her way in the

direction of the dropping water, till she
felt a splash upon her head, and, stooping
down, plunged her hands into what seemed
to be a deep, cold pool.

With the avidity of one perishing from
thirst, she scooped up the water and drank
again and again, each draft she took seeming
to infuse new life within her veins ; and,
at last satisfied, she tried to master the
horrible feeling of dread that was overpowering
her, and to make out her position.

^^ Let me go back," she said, forcing herself
to the point. " I will not be alarmed
at what is perhaps some trifling accident.
Now, then— I went to my bedroom to be
ready when Gil should come. I was feverish
and thirsty, and 1 drank from the jug upon
my table. Then I grew worse, and Janet
came to try on my dress. I must have lain
down and had some frightful dream.

'' Yes, I remember it now : and I tried

on the dress in a half-stupefied way. Nay,
it must have been Janet as I lay half asleep,

half mad

Oh, God ! " she moaned, '' am I half
mad now ? "

There was a hollow, echoing whisper,
and she cowered there trembling for a time,
but, recovering, she forced herself to goon.


I was lying there ill and quite asleep,
and — yes — no — yes — I have some recollection
of cries — a terrible shock — and — it
must be — it must be."

She pressed her hands to her head, and
rocked herself to and fro, for her reason
was on the verge of being shattered, so
horrible were her thoughts.

By degrees, though, she grew calmer, and
she once more tried to unravel the mystery
of the thick darkness around, and to carry
this out she again drank from the pool.
Then her hands touched stones and timber ;

and at last, after a long struggle, she fully-realised
the facts. There could be no doubt
of its for she recognised again the peculiar
odour of the powder.

This had come while she slept, then, overwhelming
her so suddenly that she had not
awakened from the stupor in which she was
plunged. The powder had exploded, and
she must have fallen with the ruins down
into the vault where her father had a store.

She made a brave struggle against the
feelings that seemed to bear down with
overwhelming violence, ready to snatch her
reason away, but she was only weak, and at
last, with a burst of hysterical sobbing, she
sank back completely overcome. It seemed
as if the drugged sleep into which she had
been plunged by Mother Goodhugh's distil-meets
had returned, for her reason became
overclouded, and then all was blank.

It was like awakening once more in the
utter darkness that she became conscious of

VOL. III. T

the drip, drip, of the water from the roof,
as it fell into the pool that lay somewhere
near her feet.

Again she had to fight her way to a knowledge
of her position; and now, with her
head far clearer, she became fully conscious
that this was no dream. The idea of death
or madness grew weaker, while that which
pointed to some terrible explosion and the
destruction of the place gained better hold.
The odour of the exploded gunpowder grew
so faint as to be scarcely perceptible, but it
was still there, and had she wanted further
evidence she found it upon touching some
of the stones, for her hands were damp and
clammy with the reek that would have been
black, for she was too well versed in her
father's trade not to be certain upon such a
point.

There was relief even in this, for in spite
of the horrors of her position, this commonsense
knowledge relieved her mind of the

morbid terrors that had been ready to
sweep away her reason, and set her thinking
of escape.

The knowledge that she was literally
buried alive was almost more than she
could bear at times ; but, us her brain grew
clearer, hope began to dawn life a soft, pale
ray amidst the real and mental blackness all
around.

There was no doubt now : the Pool-house
had been destroyed by a terrible explosion,
either of the powder in the cellar stores or
by some calamity outside ; and, shivering
with horror, she gave way for the moment to
the superstitious belief that it was a judgment
upon her for not having faith that the
wedding would be put off. She smiled,
though, directly after, at the absurdity of
• the idea, and began to wonder how those she
loved had fared.

Gil ? Had he been near the place ? And
her father, what of him — was he safe ? Janet,

t2

too, poor girl ! She hoped that no ill had
overtaken her.

Then she shuddered, for the idea had come
upon her that Sir Mark might have suffered,
too, and be even now alive or dead within a
few yards of where she lay.

In spite of a great effort she could not
keep from shrieking aloud at this idea. She
crouched listening, almost expecting to hear
step or word, and, in place of being ready to
welcome them, she was prepared to turn and
flee from what, instead of seeming like a
companionship, bore the aspect to her of
another frightful calamity.

Then, with her mind upon Gil, and the
feeling strong that those above must be
making a search for her, she felt that she
ought to make some efforts to let them know
her whereabouts.

She raised her voice, and cried loudly —
Gil — father — help — I am here ! " But there
was no reply to her wild cry, no sound of

iron bar or pick removing some heap of
stones, and in spite of her efforts she could
do no more than sob as if her heart would
break.

And now, as if to give her mental relief
from the horrors that she had passed through,
came long periods of sleep and dreams of
happy times — bright, sunny skies, the waving
trees, and flowery meads. Gil was with her,
and they were fishing once more upon the
lake.

It seemed to be spring-time, the time of
love and hope and joy ; and in fancy she saw
again the waving woods, the silvery bosom
of the lake dotted with broad green leaves,
waving sedges, and the silver and golden
chalices of the lilies starting up from the
water as if held out by some pixie's hand.
There, too, were the distant hills, and the
empurpled heathery waste, where the golden
gorse grew so densely. The meadow with its
waving grass ready for the scythe. The old

garden lush with flowers and advancing fruit.
Its round-topped beehives, the pleasant sheltered
seats and grassy walks ; and then the
bright scene seemed, dream-like, to fade
away in the rich soft glow of evening, and
she was once more at her window gazing,
but blushing and happy with expectancy, for
there, out on the far green bank, shone the
signal lights of four glowworms, and directly
after there was a noise, and a voice so deep
and clear came up, making her heart beat as
it uttered her name.

Yes, there it was; he called her; and with
her hands pressed to her heaving bosom she
answered him back —

*' Yes, yes, Gil — love — I am here."
She started up with straining eyes, so real
did it seem, and then sank back sobbing
bitterly, for it was but a dream. And so
was this noise of falling stones and crackling
wood, with the rush as of a mass of broken
fragments that had crumbled down beside

her — all a dream, from which after three
weary days of pain she did not care to make
the effort to rouse herself. For the Pool-house
had been destroyed, and she must be
dead, even though Mother Goodhugh's voice
had come to her, perhaps to curse. For that
was Mother Goodhugh calling to her in this
dream, bidding her rise and come forth, and
live again, and then all was blank.

Blank to Sweet Mace, but no dream, for
her cries had been heard by the old woman,
as she haunted the ruins by night, picking
out little objects of value, and toiling from
the first to reach poor forgotten Janet, an
object that kept her busy, for she could not
rest till that was done. The sixth night had
come before she had been able to drag away
a sufficiency of the debris to reach the imprisoned
girl. She had not dared to summon
help from the dread she suffered lest Sir
Mark's men should seize her once again ; and
when at last she succeeded in dragging the

sufferer from her living tomb, and had laid
her upon the ground hard by, there was none
to see her in the grey of the early morning
staggering with her burden to her lonely
cottage in the lane.

CHAPTER XVII.

HOW MOTHER GOODHUGH MISSED HER REVENGE.

Dead, and they've buried her ! " cried the
old woman, as she stood beside the bed,
whereon she had lain Mace. *dead, and
they've buried her ; and Jeremiah Cobbe
can feel now what it be to lose one that he
loves ! "

'let him feel it," she snarled, *let him
feel it, and gnaw his heart for a time. I'll
tell him naught."

Then she glanced uneasily at the door, and
drew the curtain that screened her bed.

^^ No one can see her now," she muttered.
'' I'll keep her as long as I can. She be weak

and lialf- childish with what she has gone
through. Let her rest ; but I'm glad she be
not killed."

A feeling of satisfaction glowed for a time
in the old woman's heart, but it was mingled
with annoyance that, after all, Jeremiah
Cobbe would know rest, while she could
never recall her dead.

As the days glided by, to her surprise
Mother Goodhugh found that Mace did not
recover. She partook of food mechanically
when it was offered to her, but she did not
speak, only looked vacantly about her, and
seemed to be without even the power to
think.

^^ Why should I lose my revenge ? "
thought the old woman. '' Why should I
even let him think that she lives ? It will be
another to keep until he finds her out, and
that may be months first, if she stops as she
be now. But I can keep her easily," she
said with a chuckle, ^^ since corn grows on

the moonbeams, and meal can be had for all
my wants from out the earth."

A month had gone by, and Mace showed
no sign of being roused from her dull, apathetic
state. She made no attempt to move,
but sat where she was placed, gazing straight
before her, and never a word passed her lips.
Whether the old woman was by her or she
was away on some errand, it was all the
same. Mace stayed where she was left,
unseen by a soul, for since the explosion at
the Pool-house no one had cared to go near
Mother Goodhugh, and but for her foresight
she might have starved.

But the old woman had a means of keeping
body and soul together that people little
dreamed of, for one day, while herb-gathering
in the woodlands, far away behind the
founder's house, she had kicked against a
fragment of iron, which proved to be a
portion of a shell ; and, passing further

in search of more, she came upon a hole in
the sandstone rock beside the scarped mass
that rose behind the Pool-house.

Such a place had its interest for her ; forby
the fragments of iron about and the
blackened appearance of the rock, she could
tell that it was the work of one of Jeremiah
Cobbe's pieces of ordnance.

Parting the ferns and tangled growth with
her stick, and muttering a curse or two upon
him and his belongings, the old woman found
that there was an opening large enough to
pass through ; and, investigating further, she
could see that the great shell had broken
through what was but a thin crust of rock,
and that within there was a narrow passage-like
opening, worn apparently by the waters
of some ancient stream.

Another day she examined further, for the
place interested her, and she penetrated some
distance and returned.

Another time she came, and brought a
Ian thorn to search further, for anything bordering
on mystery was valuable to her,
ending, after winding in and out for some
distance, by coming to the conclusion that
this was the place of which Abel Churr had
spoken — that she had long sought in vain,
and that she knew Gil Carr's secret, having
hit upon another entrance to his store.

It was a long and tedious way in, but that
mattered little to her ; while, ignorant of the
fact that he had been the means of breaking
a way into his own treasure-house, Gil Carr
duly, as he believed, sealed it up and set
sail.

Here one night, when the fear was upon
her that Mace might be discovered at her
cottage, and the malignant fit was stronger
than usual. Mother Goodhugh brought the
helpless girl. A touch of the hand was sufficient
to lead her where her gaoler willed,

and, docile as a child, Mace accompanied her
to what was hereafter to be her prison,
whose dark shadows seemed to accord with
her helpless state ; and here she would sit
and seem to doze away her life.

It was a safe place, only visited by the old
woman at night, and she found it easy to
feed her prisoner from the ship-stores; but
now and then a fit of remorse would seize
upon her, and she would, on leaving the
place, resolve to restore the poor girl to her
home.

A dozen times over she threw herself in
Jeremiah Cobbe's way to tell him all, but the
sight of the founder seemed to raise up gall
and bitterness in her heart, and she went
away chuckling and laughing.

^ ' Let him suffer a little longer — a little
longer," was her cry. '^ Some day the girl
will recover her senses, then I'll speak."

But the time flew by, and sense was as it

were dead in Sweet Mace's brain ; while,
having gone so far, Mother Goodhugh dreaded
at last to bring her back. There were strange
rumours afloat about her, and her position
was not so safe as it had been of yore. Soin
utter fear she would fasten up her cottage
and take refuge in Gil's store for days together,
dreading lest ill should befall her;
but at the end of a week passed in this gloomy
abode she would be ready to revile herself for
her cowardice, and go back. At these times
she was more than ever prepared to own that
she could not restore Mace to her father.

'let him suffer, as I have done," she
would cry again. '^ She can stay till Gil
Carr comes back. Let him take the poor
stricken idiot if he will. I've had revenge,
and a sweet one after all."

In this spirit Mother Goodhugh would
return to her cottage, and the tale of her evil
doings grew longer, for there were those who

said that she disappeared for days together
none knew where ; and that she had always
meal in plenty, while the miller swore none
ever came from him, and that she was a
witch indeed.

CHAPTER XVIII.

HOW CROFTLY CUT THE HAY IN THE TWO-YEAR

STACK.

There was a great deal of talk about
punishing those who had rescued Mother
Goodhugh from the flames ; but Sir Mark
was away with his wife, and soon after his
marriage, being somewhat of a favourite of
the British Solomon, he was appointed to a
diplomatic post at one of the continental
courts, and when Sir Thomas Beckley
took his first steps to vindicate the insult
offered to the law he received so broad a
hint that he might suffer bodily for his interference,
that he quietly shut himself up
in his old house, surrounded by the carp-vol.

III. u

haunted moat, and took walks u23on its
bank to give the gaping, staring fish a
model that they might study for their
benefit at will.

In fact, the rescue of Mother Goodhugh
was half forgotten in the news that was
spread by the superstitious that by her subsequent
death a spell had been broken, and
Sweet Mace had been set free and had
returned to life.

For by degrees she was restored, but it
was only by long and patient nursing. In
the latter part of her imprisonment her
faculties had become dulled, and the shock
had produced a semi-torpid state that, had
its effect upon her mental powers, which
were slow to recover their tone. Gil was
ever by her side, though she did not know
him or her father ; but, after a month's
prostration, during which she had hardly
left her couch, she began to fight her way
very slowly back to strength.

Tender nursing prevailed, and, could
her health, drunk in flagons of ale, have
given it back sooner. Master Peasegood
would have insured her the most robust of
constitutions months before she was seated
in the old garden, an object of curiosity to
all who saw her, with the face of twenty
and the silvery hair of three-score and ten.

But the ashy pallor gave way to the returning
hue of health, and the rigid, fixed
features became softened and rounded. It
was Sweet Mace's old face again by the next
summer, all but a couple of deeply-marked
lines in her forehead — lines of care and
thought which still remained.

The founder sighed even in his joy at
her return, for still there was something
wanting.

'nay, Gil," he said, sadly, 'thou hast
brought me back the body of my darling,
but thou hast not brought the spirit. She

u2

smiles sadly and gazes at me when I speak,
and that is all."

^^Yes, that is all," groaned Gil; ^' she
knows me no longer."

^' Poor lad, poor lad ! " muttered Master
Peasegood, who was present ; and he drowned
his sigh in a flagon of ale.

Art going to rebuild the old house,
now ? " said the parson.

'^ Ay," said the founder, *^ and at once. I
have my hopes that the sight of the old
place, made as near like as can be, even to
the trees, may do the poor child good, for
she seems at her best when I take her round
the garden."

Gil looked up curiously, for a thought had
struck him ; but he said nothing ; and, on the
founder proposing that they should go and
see the men digging the foundations out, he
walked with them to the old place.

As they walked down to the garden, Gil's

mind ran a good deal upon the thought that
had occurred to him, but he said nothing,
and waited patiently for his opportunity.

The visit was prolonged till towards
evening, when, before returning, the founder
walked down the narrow lane by the side
of the Pool towards the meadow where Sir
Mark had made his first proposal to Mace.

The place was full of memories for Gil,
and he sighed as he thought of the bright
sweet face he had encountered, and recalled
his jealous feelings towards the man who had
forced himself into the position of his rival.

But his attention was taken up directly
after by the founder, who, with a return of
his old business briskness, thrust open the
meadow gate, and pointed to the new,
sweetly-scented stack of hay just formed.

'' What think you of that, Master Pease-good
? " he said.

Truly I am no judge of grass or hay,
friend Cobbe, unless it be metaphorically,

and for simile's sake — grown up at noon, cut

down at night" — was the reply. ^^ Ask our

gossip, Tom Croftly here."

Ay, Tom Croftly is a good judge of

grass and stock too, though he is only a

founder."

^^ I see not why a man may not be a

judge of hay as well as iron," said Master
Peasegood, as Croftly drove a horse and

rough tumbril through the gate, and along

the track to where the old stack of hay
stood, with a good quarter of it cut away,
waiting the knife.

^^ Neither do I," said the founder, smiling
as he thought of his own business.

'' You hear this, friend Gil Carr," said
Master Peasegood ; '^ why not give up thy
roving ways, and settle down to help friend
Cobbe. There, lad, the good time is coming :
the past forgotten ; sweet little Mace will be
herself again; and Master Cobbe will be
ready to take thee by the hand as son.

Faith, and how deftly Tom Croftly handles
that great blade, and cuts the hay in squares.
Were I a fighting man, methinks that would
be a good weapon to have in battle. Heyday
! what ails the man ? Does he want to
break his neck ? "

For Tom Croftly suddenly threw up his
hands, leaped some eight feet down into the
meadow, and came up panting and with his
forehead bedewed with sweat. His eyes
were staring, and his countenance ghastly,
while for a few moments he could not
speak.

Hast seen a ghost, Tom Croftly? " cried
Master Peasegood with a hearty laugh.

*' Close upon it, master," gasped Croftly.
*' Hey, master, but it be terrifying."

'^ What is terrifying ? " cried the founder.

'that, that," panted the man. 'lord
forgive me ; I didn't know what I did."

'^ Speak out, man, speak out," cried the
founder, as the poor fellow began to tremble ;

and he clutched him by the arm, fearing that
some new trouble had befallen his house.

*^ I can't, yet, master, it be too terrifying,"
gasped Croftly. 'the Lord forgive
me for doing such a deed ! *'

^* Less of that last, Tom Croftly, and
more explanation," said Master Peasegood,
sternly.

*eyes, Mas' Peasegood, I'll tell thee,"
gasped the poor fellow. ^ ' I sharpened upas
usual — the big knife, you know — and
went to cut the 'romance for the horse and
pony, when I couldn't have been looking ;
and he must have got up there to sleep."

'' He ? Who ? What ? " cried the founder.

'^ It's not I as can say, master," stammered
the poor fellow; ^Hhe knife went
down hard, but I thrust the more, and then,
taking up the truss of hay, his head rolled
down."

*^ What ? " roared the founder.

** Heaven forgive me, master," cried Croftly,

sinking on his knees, *' I've cut a man's
head clean from his body."

The founder and Master Peasegood stared
at him aghast, as if believing he was mad,
but the poor fellow was sane enough ; and,
on following him to the little stack, there
was the horrible truth ; but Croftly was
relieved on finding his knife had decapitated
the dead, and not some sleeping man.

Was he dead, then ? " he faltered, in
answer to a few words spoken by Master
Peasegood.

'^ Dead, man ! ay, months ago. Heaven
have mercy on us, it's a horrible thing."

you're right," said the founder, turning

away with a shudder; *Hhe poor wretch

I must have lain down when we were making

the stack, and more hay have been thrown

upon him. He must have been smothered."

Some gipsy, perhaps," said Master Pease-good,
whose broad face looked white.

Here be a bottle by him," said Tom

Croftly, lifting one from beside the body,
and here be a strap. Why, master, master ! "
he cried, rising up with a scrap of clothing
in his hand.

^'What is it, Tom?" said the fonder,
shuddering. '^ Come away, man, come
away."

Ay, I'll come away, Mas' Cobbe, but
I've found out who it be."

^' You have ? " cried Master Peasegood,
excitedly, as the man opened and smelt the
bottle.

'' Ay, I have, said Croftly. '' That be
strong waters in this bottle ; and him as lay
down," he continued, sagaciously, ^* I say,
him as lay down upon that half-built stack
was drunk and the steam of the moist hay
stifled him."

^^ But who think you it was?" cried the
founder.

** Him as was missed," cried Croftly,
triumphantly.

Thank God ! " cried Master Peasegood ;
'^ then Gil was as innocent as the day."

Innocent — as the day ? " cried the founder,
in a puzzled voice, as he looked from
one to the other. ^' Poor creature, how do
you know ? But I don't understand. Someone
who was missed ? Good God ! " he
cried, as a light flashed upon him, and he
took a step or two up the short ladder by
the stack, and then leaped down. " 'Tis
Abel Churr ! "

CHAPTER XIX.

HOW GIL CARR LIT THE LAMPS OF LOVE.

Another year slipped by and Gil's ship had
made a couple more voyages with Wat Kilby
at the helm, for Culverin Carr had stayed at
home, the helper and adviser of Jeremiah
Cobbe. The Pool-house had risen again
from its ashes, stone for stone, beam for
beam, in spite of the bitter curse fulminated
against those who should restore it. The
aspect of age could not be given to the
place, but it was a labour of love on the
founder's part to consult with Gil how they
should get that clump of roses, that high
cluster of clematis, and those bright flowers
to grow beneath the window as of old.

Wealthy as he was, the founder could replace
many things destroyed by the calamity
that befel his house, and with so zealous a
treatment it was wonderful how nearly
they brought the new house in furniture and
surroundings to resemble the old.

At last they paused, feeling that there was
nothing more to do, and the two strong men
sat at the table in the big parlour, gazing
the one into the other's face, as if to ask for
hope and friendly assurance of success. For
on the next day Mace was to be brought to
the new house, and they both felt that, if her
mind were to be restored, they must see some
symptoms in the change.

The founder begged Gil to help him bring
his child home once more, but he bluntly
refused.

Nay," he said ; " I will not come. Take
her thyself. Thou art her father, and Godspeed
thee in the task."

It was a glorious summer day at the end
of July, when the flowers were blooming,
and the whole air was redolent with Nature's
sweetest scents. The Pool was pure as
crystal, and amidst the broad green leaves
the silver chalices of the water-lilies swam
upon the surface, where the herons waded,
and the gorgeous kingfisher darted across
the glassy mirror.

In the old garden the flowers drooped
their heads in the heat which quivered over
the grassy meads, while the forest-trees were
silent in the glowing sunshine. No leaf
moved, no zephyr played in the dark shades,
but lizard and glistening beetle darted here
and there, where the sandstone peered out
amidst the heaths and ferns.

Mace suffered herself to be led by her
father from the cottage they had made their
home ; but she heeded not the faces at the
window and door, nor heard the pitying

words spoken concerning her by the work-people
who had eaten her father's bread for
years.

They watched her as the grey-headed
founder led her across the bridge, and
opened the garden gate; but she did not
look. He spoke to her and pointed out her
favor ante trees, and then groaned in the
anguish of his heart, for she made no reply.
Her soft, sweet eyes might have been blind ;
her tongue have never spoken ; and her soft,
pinky, shell-like ears have never heard a
sound, for all the sign she gave ; and the
founder's heart sank low as he felt that his
task of love had been labour in vain.

And yet he would not despair; but, leading
her in, he gently placed her in the recess by
the open window with her work spread
around as of old, and her roses nodding and
flinging their odours into the pleasant room.

No word, no look, no sign ; and at last, in
despair, the founder left her with her maid,

and, bent of head and weary, trudged up to
Master Peasegood's cot to tell of his disappointment
over a friendly pipe.

Yes," he said, at last; ^^it is all over,
and I am going to try to be resigned."

*' Nay," said the parson, ^^ why say that?
Be resigned, man, come to you what may ;
but, after all this preparation, why give it
up?"

*^ Because it is useless. Master Peasegood.
Her mind is dead."

Master Peasegood refilled a pipe, and lit it
to smoke for awhile in silence, while the
founder gazed before him through the open
window at the setting sun.

** I could preach thee a long, long sermon
on the subject of hope. Master Cobbe," said
the parson at last; ^^but I will refrain.
Look here, man, and recollect what thou
hast done. Only to-day thou did'st take our
sweet smitten flower back to the bed where
it blossomed and grew so fair. It had been

away in desert soil that had blighted it,
and where it had ^ grown wild and strange ;
and, lo ! thou saidst ' I will plant it back in
the old sweet soil, and there shall be a
miracle ; it shall blossom in an instant as of
old — in the twinkling of an eye.' "

^' Yes, yes, I did — I did," cried the founder,
sadly.

^' And it did not blossom a bit," said
Master Peasegood bluntly. ^ * Jeremiah Cobbe,
that is all."

'' All ! " cried the founder, blankly.

'' Yes, all at present. Wait, man ; wait,
and be reasonable. Such a thing as thou
askest of Heaven must be the result of time,
or some stronger power than thine. We
have miracles enough now-a-days, for every
work of God is miraculous ; but we have no
sacred conjuring tricks in common life.
Heaven forgive me if I am irreverent. I
mean we have no such sudden changes as
you expected here. Tut, man, wait awhile

VOL. III. X

and have some faith. I'd have more faith
in a tender kiss and a loving word from Gil,
than in all that thou canst do. Wait, man,
wait. Maybe he is already working at that
which proved a sorry failure in thy fatherly
hands."

^' He refused to come," said the founder,
sadly.

'^ Ay, with thee ; but maybe he has stolen
to her side now thou art here."

'' Dost think so ? "

^^ Nay, I know not; but fill thy pipe, man,
and wait. I have faith that our darling was
not restored to us for such a life in death as
this. I' faith, friend Cobbe, I pray nightly
that I may see some merry little prattlers
with the faces of Gil and Mace, softened and
sweet, playing round our chairs as we grow
more wrinkled and more old. Heaven bless
us ! There's time enough yet. See here, man,"
he cried, rising and taking a curious flask
and glasses from a corner cupboard, ** here

is some strange liquor sent me by Father
Brisdone, a great man, now, in sunny
France. He bids me wish him well when I
drink thereof, and I do, and pray for his
health and life. There," he continued as he
filled the glasses, "here's Father Brisdone,
and now here's Culverin Carr and his dear
wife and children, bless them all."

^^ All," said the founder, fervently, ashe
drained his glass of the potent liquor;
and then, as the evening crept on apace
and the stars came blinking out, the two
friends sat and smoked, with the founder's
heart growing cheery from the words
and liquor of his firm old friend.

It was as dark as a summer night knows
how to be, when, after a final pipe, the
founder rose to go.

*^ Nay, but I'll see thee home," said Master
Peasegood ; *^ and what is more, as it is
early yet, I'll drink a flagon of ale and ask
a blessing in the dear old — new — old — well,

x2

the to-be happy home ; " and rising he
strolled down the lane with his friend and
across the bridge.

The founder opened the gate and let his
companion through with a strange sensation
at his breast, and he was about to lead the
way round to the door when Master Pease-good's
hand was laid upon his shoulder, and
with a hoarse sob he sank upon his knees,
and buried his face in his hands, weeping
like a child.

It was almost dark when Gil Carr, who
had seen the founder go, strolled slowly
down towards the Pool-house. He was heartsick
and weary, and the soft, balmy, night -
air seemed filled with depressing influences.
Another disappointment and another, and
hope more distant still.

The night mists were rising, and he
smiled sadly as he glanced at the dark and
dewy banks, and thought of the long-ago,

when, with a love of the hidden and secret,
he and Mace had held stolen meetings, till
she chided him and bade him come no
more.

'' Hah, but they were happy days," he
sighed, as he walked on and on till he stood
beside the wide-spreading Pool, and thought
of his narrow escape from death therein.
Then a few steps further, and he was by the
rushing outlet where the water dashed under
the little bridge and onward to the dripping
wheel.

'^ Where are Sir Mark and his fair wife
now ? " he muttered, as with a faint smile he
thought of the knight's plunge in the rushing
stream, and his own to fish him out.

Again a few steps and he was across the
bridge, leaning on the garden gate, and
gazing sadly at the new casement that had
replaced the old.

Yes, it was well done, and he thought of
his many meetings, of his waiting that night

to carry his love away ; then of the fight,
the explosion, and his scorching ordeal as he
clambered in and bore out her whom he
believed to be poor Mace.

Sad thoughts — sweet thoughts — thoughts
that almost unmanned him, so that when the
moon rose, and he gazed still at the casement,
he believed he was deceived, and that it was
not Mace there, but some trick of the imagination.


There was the figure at the open window,
and he was about to sjoeak, but he checked
himself, and stole away.

Hastily recrossing the bridge, he hurried
along the lane, stooping gently here and
there, and returning in a few minutes to
bend over the tall bank facing the broad
casement of the Pool-house.

In a moment after, diamond-wise, there
shone forth from the dark grass four glowworms'
lamps, the old love-signal of the past,
and with beating heart — he knew not why —

Gil retraced his steps, crossed the bridge,
entered the garden, and, with his hands
trembling, made his way towards where he
could dimly make out the pale, sweet face in
the halo of silver hair.

There was a rough, short ladder hard by,
where Tom Croftly had helped to nail up
the blossoming roses, close round Sweet
Mace's panes; and Gil seized these rough
garden steps as he stopped beneath, gazing
with all his soul at the face of her he loved.

Was it a dream, or was it honest truth ?
Did he breathe and live and hear ? Was he
blind, or was she leaning out towards him,
with outstretched hands, as her dear voice
whispered with all the passion of her old,
old love, the one word —

^^Gil?"

'' Mace ! " he cried, and with a bound he
sprang to her side, to clasp her to his breast,
as her own soft, round arms drew his face

closer — closer to hers, and their lips met in
one long, loving kiss.

Miracle ? Merely such a one as love
might perform ; and when — how much later
no one knew — the founder and Master
Peasegood came slowly up, they saw and
heard enough to make the latter' s heart swell
with joy as the father sank upon his knees
in thankfulness for the blessing that had
come at last.

THE END.

Nichols and Sons, Printers, 25, Parliament Street, Westminster.

0112 045833107
