m

r^.a

SI

10^1

■'V,^

:^>

'M"

^^-;

t , "^ >■*

"v-'

:**'

■•:'W

^V/V

THE MAN WITH A SHADOW.

A RECOILING VENGEANCE. By Frank BAERiiTT. 2 vols.

DIANA Barrington. By Mrs. Crokee, 3 vols.

A LEAL LASS. By Basil. 2 vols.

THE LAST HURDLE. A Sort of Sporting and Courting.
3!3. cl.

IN OPPOSITION. By G. M. J. Blackbird. 3 vols.

ROBERT HOLT'S ILLUSION. By Miss Linskill. 6s.

WARD & DOWNEY, Publishers, London.

Mal WITH A SHADOW

BY

a MANVILLE Penn,

AUTHOR OF " OXE MAId's MISCHIEF," " THE Master OF THE Ceremonies,'
Double CirXNIITG," ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. I.

LONDON :

WARD AND DOWNEY,

12, York STREET, COVENT GARDEN, W.C.

1888.
[J.71 rights reserved

Contents.

(^

CHAPTEE I.

PAGE

THE CURATE GROWS SUSPICIOUS ; AND TAKES HIS STICK 1

CHAPTER 11.

DR. NORTH GETS IN HOT WATER . . . .20

^ CHAPTER III.

II
t? SCIENCE AT WORK . .• 32



CHAPTER IV.

PARSON SALIS TAKES OFF HIS COAT , . .37

CHAPTER Y

THE doctor's Parties

^J. THE doctor's patients WANT HIM AT HOME . . 47

CHAPTER VI.

PAGE

DR. NORTH VISITS THE SEXTON . . . .59

CHAPTER VIL

A FRESH PATIENT

CHAPTER IX.

DR. NORTH SEES A WHITE MARK .

CHAPTER X.

THE DOCTOR PRESCRIBES



CHAPTER VIII.

HOW I DO HATE THAT GIRL ! " . . . .88





CHAPTER XI.

JONADAB Forelock SEES A GHOST . . .113

CHAPTER XII.

THE sexton's FETCH . . . . , .123

CHAPTER XIII.

AFTER CHURCH .132

CHAPTER XIV.

PAGE

HOW HORACE NORTH DID NOT GO TO THE MEET . 141

CHAPTER XV.

A REFRACTORY Patient . . . . .152

CHAPTER XVI.

"l AM NOT ill" 156

CHAPTER XVII.

WHAT DALLY WAS DOING . . . . .166

CHAPTER XVIII.

LEO MAKES A CONFESSION . . . , .175

CHAPTER XIX.

WAS IT DELIRIUM ] 183

CHAPTER XX.

A VENERABLE OLD MAN . . . . .196

CHAPTER XXI.

"Something PARTICULAR TO SAY " . . . 204

CHAPTER XXII.

PAGE

DR. NORTH PROPOSES . . . . . .212

CHAPTER XXIII.

TOM OANDLISH PLAYS sadly 224

CHAPTER Xxii.

A TERRIBLE SILENCE . . . . . .241

CHAPTER XXV.

SMITH FINDS SOMETHING WRONG . . . .246

CHAPTER XXYL
"ah!" 254

CHAPTER XXVII.
THE doctor's opportunity . . . . .261

CHAPTER L

THE CURATE GROWS SUSPICIOUS; AND TAKES

HIS STICK.

Do what, miss ? " said Dally Matlock.
That ! There, you did it again."
** La, miss ; I only thought my face might
be a bit smutty, and I wiped it."

Don't tell me a falsehood, Dally. I know
what it means. You felt guilty, and your
face burned."

La, miss ; I don't know what you mean."
Then Til tell you, Dally. You are growing
too light and free, and your conduct is
far from becoming, or what it should be fora
maid-servant at the Rectory. If girls are
so foolish they must not be surprised at young

^, VOL. I. B

\ I

men — gentlemen — taking such liberties. Now
go. And mind this : if it ever occurs again,
I shall acquaint my brother."

*' Well, I couldn't help it, miss. I didn't
ask Mr. Tom Candlish to kiss me."

Silence ! How dare you ? Leave the
room."

I was a-going to, miss. He popped out
from behind the hedge just as Billy Wilkins
had given me the letters, and he says, * Give
this note to Miss Leo, Dally,' he says, 'and
mind no one else sees.' "

I told you to leave the room, girl."

Well, miss, I'm a-going, ain't I ? And
then, before I could help it, he put his arm
round me and said my cheeks were like
apples."

** Will — you — leave — the— room ? "

Yes, miss, of course I will ; and then he
kissed me just as Billy Wilkins looked back,
and now he'll go and tell Joe Chegg, and
he'll scold me too. I'm a miserable girl."

Red-cheeked, ruddy-lipped Dally Matlock
christened Delia as a compromise for
Delilah — covered her round face with her

apron, and began to sob and try to pump up
a few tears to her bright dark eyes, as her
young mistress seized her by the shoulders,
and literally forced her out of the room,
when Dally went sobbing down the passage
and through the baize door before she dropped
her apron and began to laugh.

She's as jealous as sel ! '' cried the girl.
'rit made her look quite yellow. Deal she's
got to talk about, too. Tell master ! She
aren't ! The minx ! I could tell too. AYho
cares for her — tallow-face? Thinks she's
precious good-looking ; but she ain't everybody,
after all. Master Joe Chegg, too, had
better mind. I don't care if he does know
now."

Then as if the spot burned, or as if a
natural instinct taught her that the kiss imprinted
upon her cheek was not as cleanly as
it. should have been, or as one of the honest
salutes of the aforesaid Joe Cheofor, Dally
Watlock lifted her neat white apron, and
wiped the place again.

'•' How dare he kiss her ? " said Leo Salis,
frowning, as she laid the post letters beside

B 2

her brother's place at the breakfast-table,
and then stood with the note in her hand.
I'll punish him for this ! "

She hastily tore open the note, which was
written in a good, manly hand, but contained
in ten lines four specimens of faulty spelling,
and a " you was " which looked as big as a
blot.

The note was brief and contained a pressing
invitation to meet the writer in Need Cliff
Wood that morning, as soon after breakfast as
she could.

I won't go," she said passionately. '' I'll
punish him ! "

Then, as if feeling that she would punish
herself, the girl stood thinking, and then hastily
crushed the note in her hand and walked to
the window, to be apparently studying the
pretty Warwickshire landscape as her brother
and sister entered the room.

*^ Morning, Leo, dear," said Mary Salis,
the elder of the two ; a fair English girl,
gray-eyed, with high forehead and dark-brown,
wavy hair, her type of countenance,
allowing for feminine softness, being wonderfully

like that of the robust, manly-looking
clergyman who entered with his hand resting
upon her shoulder.

Morning, Mary," said Leo quietly ; and
her handsome dark, almost Spanish, features
seemed perfectly calm and inanimate as she
returned her sister's salute ; and then, in a
half weary way, rather distantly held up her
cheek for her brother to kiss.

'' Get out ! '' said the latter boisterously,
as he caught the handsome girl by the
shoulders, and tried to look in her eyes which
avoided his. *^ No nonsense, Leo, my dear.
No grumps. Give me a good, honest kiss.
Lips — lips — lips."

She raised her face in obedience to the
emphatic demand, and then extricated herself
from the two strong hands, to take her
place at the table ; while her sister, who
seemed nervous and anxious, and kept
glancing from one to the other, went to the
head of the table, and began to make the
tea.

"You and I must not be on two sides,
Leo, my dear," said the brother, smiling, but

with a troubled look on his face, which
seemed the reflection of that in the eyes of
the elder sister. " I'm like a grandfather to
you, my darling, and what I say and advise
is for the best."

*'Do you wish to send me back to my
room, Hartley ? " said the girl, half rising.

Name of a little fiddler in France, no ! "
cried Hartley Salis. '* There — mum! I've
done, dear. Breakfast ! I'm as hungry as
two curates this morning. What is it,

Dally ? "

"Ammonegs, sir," said the little maid,
who entered with a covered dish.

Didn't know Ammon ever laid 'em,"
muttered the curate, with a dry look at his
sisters. " Now then : letters. Let me see."

He proceeded to open his letters, and read
and partook of his breakfast at the same
time, making comments the while for the
benefit of his sisters, when he thought the
news would please.

Humph ! May ! " he said aloud ; and
then skimmed the ill-written, crabbed lines
in silence.

*' Hang him ! " he said to himself. " What
mischief-making wretch inspired that ? " and
he re-read the letter. " ' Not becoming of
the sister of a clergyman to be seen so often
in the huntincr- field — better be enorao-ed over
parish work — excites a good deal of remark
hope shall not have to make this painful
allusion again ' — Humph ! '^

The curate's face was full of the lines of
perplexity, and rapidly doubling up the letter,
he swallowed half a cup of tea at a gulp,
much hotter than was good for him, and
quite sufficiently so to cause pain.
'' Phew ! More milk, Mary, dear."
A long white hand raised the milk-jug
quickly, and the earnest gray eyes which
belonged sought the curate's as he held out
his cup.

Any bad news, Hartley, dear ? "
Bad news ? No, no, dear, only one of
May's old worries. The old boy's got gout

again."

Has he, dear ? "

'well, he doesn't say so, but it breathes
in that style. He feels it his duty to stir

me up now and then, and he generally does it
with a sharp stick."

He glanced as he spoke at Leo, who sipped
her tea and read a novel, without apparently
heeding what was going on.

"It's a great shame, Hartley, working so
hard in the parish as you do," said Mary
quietly ; " while he "

Oh, silence ! thou reviler of those in
high clerical places," cried the curate merrily,
as he inserted his knife in the envelope
fold of another missive, and slit it open.
"Here's a letter from North."

The face of Mary Salis was perfectly
composed, but there was a flash from her
eyes and an eager look of inquiry as the
letter was opened.

Ha ! Busy as a bee ! Conferences ;
lectures. Going to be present at a great
operation. Nasty wretch ! How he does
glory in great operations ! "

It is his love of his profession," said
Mary quietly.

"Too enthusiastic," said the curate. "Why
doesn't he, a man with his income, make

himself happy by doing what good he canto
his patients, and have his game of chess
here when his work is done ? "

It is his desire to do good to his patients
which makes him so earnest about scientific
matters, dear," said Mary, smiling at her
brother.

Very kind of you to do battle for him,
my child ; but Horace North works far too
hard, and he'll end by going mad."

Or becoming one of the ornaments of
his profession," said Mary, smiling.

Ornaments be hanged ! One of the
useful corners, if you like."

Does he say when he is coming home ? "
said Mary quietly.

Yes ; day after tomorrow. Good news
for Mrs. Berens."

The curate burst into a hearty laugh, and
a very, very faint flush of colour came into
Mary's cheek.

Saw her yesterday, and with a face as
innocent of guile as could be she told me
that she was very poorly, and should not
feel safe to live honos in a village where there

was no medical man. Glad old Horace is
coming back, though. What have we here ?
Oh, I see. Letter about the horse — no, ita
mare."

Leo put down her book and listened
attentively now.

"Hah! Yes! North was right. The
fellow will take ten pounds less for her, after
all."

"Ah!"

There was a faint sigh, expressive of gratification,
and the curate looked up.

Are you satisfied, Leo ? " he said gravely.

"Yes."

It goes against the grain," he said, laying
his hand involuntarily upon the letter he had
that morning received from the rector.

Don't say that, Hartley," cried Leo, with
her face now full of animation. "We can
afford the horse, and it was absolutely disgraceful
to appear on poor old Grey Joe."

Grey Joe was a good safe horse, and I
never felt nervous when you were mounted.
Splendid fellow in harness too."

Yes, admirable ! " cried Leo. " And now

you can keep him always for the chaise. It
will be so much better."

The curate shook his head.

"No," he said ; '"'poor old Joe will have to
go, and I wish him a good master."

Poor old Joe ! " said Mary, sighing, as
she thought of many pleasant drives.

'grey Joel Go!" said Leo, with her
lips apart. "Then what will you do for the
chaise ? "

Use the new mare."

Leo looked at him with speechless indignation.


Put the new mare in the chaise ? " she
faltered.

"Yes, my dear. The man says she goes
well in harness."

"Oh, Hartley," cried Leo, flushing now
with indignation, "that would be too
absurd ! "

Why, my dear ? "

You get me a mount because it is so unpleasant
to go to the meet on an old chaise-horse,
and then talk of putting my hunter
in the chaise."

*' Grey Joe was not good enough for the
purpose," said the curate gravely, "and at
your earnest wish, my dear Leo, I have
pinched in several ways that my sister,
who is so fond of hunting, may not be
ashamed before her friends."

"Pinched!"

"Yes, my dear, pinched myself and Mary.
Our consols money only gives three per cent,
and it is hard work to make both ends meet.
You have your mount, and I cannot afford
to keep two horses, so Grey Joe must go.
We must have the use of a horse in the
chaise, so the mare will have to run in harness
sometimes."

Leo rose from her chair with her eyes
flashing and cheek aflame.

'* I declare it's insufferable," she cried,
with a stamp of the foot. "Oh, I am so
sick of this life of beggary and pinching !
All through this season I have been disgraced
by that wretched old horse, and now
when people who know me Oh, I cannot
bear to speak of it ! "

My dear sister ! "

'* It's cruel — it's abominable. If it had been
Mary, she could have had what she pleased."

'' My dear Leo," began Mary, looking up
at her in a troubled way.

'' Hold your tongue ! You make mischief
enough as it is. You always side with
Hartley, who has no more feeling than a
stone."

But, my dear child," began the curate.

*' Child ! Yes ; that's how you treat me
like a child. You check me in every way.
I suppose you'll want to make me a nun,
and keep me shut up always in this dreary
hole. You check me in everything, and
Mary helps you."

Mary looked up at her brother now, for
he had slowly risen from his seat, and she
knew the meaning of the stern aspect of his
countenance.

"I had hoped, Leo," he said, "that you
would have accepted my decision about that
to which you have thought it wise to allude."

I am driven to it," cried the girl passionately.


*' No : I try to lead," said the curate, '* asa

father might lead. I shall be sorry when
the time comes for you to quit our pleasant
old home, but if a good man and true comes
and says, ' I love your sister ; give her me to
wife ' "

If you cannot speak plain English, pray
hold your tongue," cried Leo scornfully.

I should hold out my hands to him, and
greet him as a new brother, Leo," said the
curate solemnly ; " but when I find that
my young, innocent sister is being made the
toy of a worthless, degraded "

How dare you ? " cried Leo, flashing out
in her rage, while Mary went to her side,
and laid her hand upon the trembling arm
half raised.

I dare," said the curate gravely, " because
I have right upon my side. I think —
and Mary joins me in so thinking "

'* Of course ! " said Leo scornfully.

*that Thomas Candlish is no fit companion
for my sister. I have told you so,
and to cease all further communication.
I have told him so ; forbidden him the
house ; and he has accepted my judgment."

Mr. Candlish is a gentleman," cried Leo
fiercely.

People call him so, and his brother by
the same name, because of the old family
property ; but if they are gentlemen, thank
Heaven I am a poor curate ! "

"Your conduct "

"Hush!" said the curate firmly. "We
will say no more about this, Leo, my dear.
You are angry without cause. I have acceded
to your request for a fresh horse, so
as to indulge you in your love of hunting,
and at more cost than you imagine. I shall
always be glad to do anything that I canto
make my sisters happy ; but I must be
judge and master here, though I fear I am
often very weak."

It is insufferable," cried Leo indignantly ;
and she raised quite a little whirlwind as
she swept out of the room.

The curate sighed, and sank back in his
chair with his brow knit, till he felt a soft
arm encircle his neck and a rounded cheek
rest against his temple.

"Ah!" he exclaimed; "that's better;"

and he passed his arm round the graceful
form. " This is very sad, Mary. But, there ;
we will not brood over it ; difficulties often
settle themselves."

"Yes, Hartley."

But that Candlish business must not goon.


No, Hartley. It is impossible."

She kissed his forehead, and the breakfast
was finished in silence — supposed to be
finished. It had really ended when Leo Salis
quitted the room.

It was about an hour later that as the
Reverend Hartley Salis was hard at work
over his sermon, striving his best to keep
out college lore, and to write in language
that the Duke's Hampton villagers could
easily understand, that he came to the sentence
folio wins: —

Now a man's duty, my friends — and a
woman's " — he added parenthetically.

'' Now, what shall I tell them a man's
duty is — and a woman's ? "

That required thought, and he laid down
his pen, rose, and walked to the study

window, to look out on the pleasant landscape
; beautiful still, though not in the
most goodly time of year.

"Obedience!" he cried angrily, for just
passing out of the little rustic gate at the
bottom of the Rectory grounds he saw his
sister Leo.

She was in hat and cloak. Her movements
were rapid, and the furtive look she darted
back told tales.

''No," said the curate; "it would be
spying. I cannot."

It is your duty," something seemed to
whisper to him.

"Perhaps I am contemptibly mean and
suspicious," he muttered. " I hope I am.

If it is so, I'll No, no, no. Hartley, my

son ! Recollect what you are. Such as the
bishop should be, such must you be — no
brawler — no striker. No: it must be a
favourable opportunity for a quiet chat with
Leo, for we cannot go on like this, poor
child."

He went into the hall, took down his hat,
reached a stout cudgel-like stick which his

VOL. I. C

hand gripped firmly, as his nerves tingled,
while his left hand clenched, and felt as if
it were grasping some one by the collar.

'' A scoundrel ! " he muttered.

*' Going out, dear ? "

Ah, Mary ! You there ? You go about
like a mouse. Yes, I've just got to 'a man's
duty is ' in my sermon, and can't get any
farther, so I'll go as far as Red Cliff Wood
and back for a refresher."

He nodded and went out.

"Poor Mary!" he muttered; "she must
not know ; but if I had stayed a minute
longer she would have found me out.
Now, Master Tom Candlish, if you are there,

rii — "

He gave himself a sharp slap on the
mouth.

Steady ! Man, man, man ! how you do

forget your cloth ! But if Tom Candlish

Pish ! Steady, man ! Let's go and see."

Mary Salis stood in the deep old motioned
window, gazing after him.

Hartley never leaves and speaks like
that unless there is something wrong," she

said to herself. " If that wretched man
has persuaded Leo — she has just gone out —
without a word. Oh, no, no ! she would not
do such a thing as that. How I do picture
troubles where there are none ! "

She stood watching until her brother disappeared,
and then went back into the
dining-room, telling herself that it was folly,
but her heart refused to be convinced, and
set up a low, heavy, ominous throb.

C 2

dr. north gets in hot water.

^'Yah!"

A virtuous mob's war-cry. The favourite
ejaculation of the unwashed scoundrels who
are always ready to redress grievances and
hunt down their fellow-creatures for the
crimes they glory in themselves — when they
can commit them safely.

There is always a large floating contingent
ready for this duty, and also — to use their
own expression — "to have a go at any think ;"
and upon several occasions they had had
*' a go " at the lecture-room of St. Sector's
Hospital, Florsbury, the consequence of such
*' goes " being that the neighbouring glaziers
had a large job ; but the authorities preferred

to content themselves with keeping out the
wind and water, and left the exterior unpainted,
showing the stone dents, chipped paint,
and battering of the insensate crew of
virtuous beings who revel in destruction
whenever they have a chance.

The " Yahoos " had their own theory about
St. Sector's, and allowed themselves to
smoulder for a time, but every now and then
they burst forth into eruption, and then the
consequences were not pleasant to behold.

Lecture night at St. Sector's, and a goodly
gathering present to witness an operation
performed by one of the greatest surgical
savant of the day. There were medical
students present, but some of the cleverest
surgeons of London and the country had
made a point of being there to see the
operation and learn how to combat a terrible
disease which, up to that date, had been considered
certain death to the unfortunate
being who contracted that ill.

The old savant had thought, had experimented,
and had given years of his life to
studying that evil, and now having proclaimed

the result of his discoveries, and
coming as the announcement did from a
man of such weight in the profession, a
strong band of the lights of surgical science
had gathered together to witness the experiment
; and also hear a paper read by a
young surgeon from the country — Dr.
Horace North.

Precedence was given to the paper, and a
keen, intelligent, handsome young man of
thirty stepped up to the lecturer's table with a
roll of papers in his hand. He looked rather
pale, and there was a slight twitching at
the corners of his lips as he bowed to his
audience, after a few words of introduction
from the gray-haired chairman of the evening.
Then the buzz of conversation, which
had ceased for a few moments, began again.

He felt that he had a task before him,
that of stopping a gap in front of which an
eager crowd were ready to clamour for the
treat they had come to hear. Dr. Horace
North was nothing to them, and the young
students voted his paper a bore.

He began to read in a calm, clear voice,

expounding his views, and the buzz of voices
increased as first one and then another page
was read and turned over, scarcely a word
being heard.

He stopped and poured out a glass of
water, and the carafe was heard to clatter
against the o^lass as the lecturer's hand
trembled.

This was the signal for a titter, which was
repeated by some thoughtless student, as
the reading was resumed without the water
being tasted.

Then five minutes of painful reading
ensued, with the buzz of voices increasing.

There was a sudden stoppage, and all
were attentive.

For, with an angry gesture, the young
doctor rolled up his papers, threw them
aside, and took a step forward.

Gentleman's he cried, in a voice which
rang through the theatre, " I am addressing
you who in the conceit of youth believe that
there is little more to learn, and who have
treated my reading with such contempt."

Hear, hear ! " cried the old chairman.

Those two encouraging; words touched the
speaker, and, with a dramatic earnestness of
manner, he exclaimed :

'' I have not much to say, but it is the
result of years of study, and that you shall
hear."

Then, for the space of half-an-hour, influent,
forcible language, he poured forth
the result of his observations and belief that
they, the followers of the noble science of
surgery, had a great discovery before them
waiting to be made, one which it was the
duty of all to endeavour to drag forth from
the dark depths in which Nature hid away
her treasures.

He declared that death should only follow
upon old age, when the fruit was quite ripe,
and ready to fall from the tree of life. He
left it to the followers of medicine to attack
and conquer disease, so that plague and
pestilence should no longer carry off their
hecatombs of victims, and addressed the
surgeon alone, telling him that in case of
accident or after operation, no man of health
or vigour should be allowed to die.

There was a half laugh here, and a sneer
or two.

*•' I repeat it," cried the speaker. " No such
man should be allowed to die." Previous to
his accident he was in robust health, and his
apparent death was only, as it were, a trance,
into which he fell while Nature busily commenced
her work of restoration, the building
up again of the injured tissues. How the
sustaining of the patient while Nature worked
her cure was to be carried out, it was the
duty of them all to discover, and for one he
vowed that he would not rest till the discovery
was made.

In the case of drowning it was often but
suspended animation. In the case of accident
and apparent death, it would be the
same. Death by shock, he maintained, was
a blot upon the science of the present day.
Those who died by shock merely slept.
Such body was in full health and vigour,
and Nature would repair all damages by the
aid of man ; and he was convinced that the
time would come when surgeons would save
a hundred lives where they now saved one.

The speaker sat down amidst a whirlwind
of applause, for his manner, his thorough
belief, and his earnestness carried away his
audience ; and the result would have been
a most exciting discussion but for the intervention
of the chairman, who pointed to the
clock, and at once introduced the great surgeon,
while a murmur ran through the
theatre as a large table was wheeled into
the centre of the building from behind a
curtain, and those present knew what the
draping of the table concealed.

A burst of applause greeted the grave,
gray-headed surgeon ; and as it ceased, he
expressed, in a few well-selected words, the
pleasure he had felt in listening to Dr.
Horace North, to whose theory he expressed
himself ready to pin his faith.

Kudi I say this, gentlemen, for the reason
that I am here to-night — to point out to you
how great a stride can be made in surgery —
how much we have yet to learn."

Then, explaining in a calm, clear voice ashe
went on, he turned back his sleeves, and
selected a Ion 2^, keen blade from a velvet-lined

case, signed to his assistants, and the
subject upon which he was to operate lay
there grim, cold, and ghastly.

Xo : not ghastly to the earnest men who
saw in it the martyr immolated to the
saving of thousands, as, with deft fingers
and unerring skill, the crreat surgeon made
his incisions ; and exemplifying step by step
each act and its reasons, he performed his
wonderful experiment to the last stroke ;
and then, having: finished, was about to
draw back when there was a volley of stones
upon door and window, and, amid the creaking
of woodwork and the tinkling of falling
glass, came the yelling of the virtuous mob —

Yah ! "

And directly afterwards —

Body-snatches 1 Yah ! "

For a moment there was a stillness, as if
the audience in the lecture theatre had
been paralysed ; then there was a general
stampede towards the door, and a burst of
rage, excitement, and dread, as a voice
loudly announced that the mob had scaled
the wall and were in the yard — a tremendous

volley of stones and brickbats endorsing the
announcement.

For a few minutes only one present
seemed to keep bis head, and that was the
old operator, who whispered a few orders to
his assistants, and with rapid action the
table, with its burden, was draped and
wheeled beyond the curtained arch from
which it had been drawn, the banging of ."^
heavy door and the shooting of bolts following
directly after.

The beating of heavy sticks upon the
doors, the smashing in of the windows, glass
and wire-work giving way at every volley,
and the yelling of the mob, made a deafening
uproar, during which the old surgeon calmly
began returning his favourite operating knives
to their purple velvet-lined cases, locking
them up carefully, as he turned to Horace
North, who stood beside him, and said, with
a smile :

'' Now what have we done to deserve such
treatment as this ? "

Yah ! Body-snatches ! " came with a
burst of yells from without.

Done, sir ? " said the young doctor, flushing
fj. " Toiled hard to discover means of alleviating
pain and saving life. This is our
reward."

Yes," said the old man, smiling, as he
patted his cases. '* My pets ; I shouldn't
like to lose them. Yes, sir, ignorance in
Christian England in the nineteenth century
1 "

Yah ! Body-snatches ! " came again ;
and the howling and yelling mob were
evidently forcing their way in.

Never mind them, Mr. North," continued
the old man. *' Let me see and hear from
you. I believe in your theory. You have
gone too far, my dear sir ; youth is sanguine.
You have aimed at the top of the mountain.
You will not get there, but to a good high
place, and I am proud to have met so clever,
vso talented a young man."

"Thank you, sir; thank you," cried
North, as the old man lowered his cases
into his pockets ; " but hadn't we better try
and get away ? "

Try ? " said the old man. " I do not see

how we can. The mob are arranging for
seizing by escalade."

Yah ! Body-snatches ! " came in a
fierce yell, louder, too, as it followed upon a
tremendous crash.

The irruption of the London '^ Yahoos "
had taken place, and they were pouring in,
headed by a fierce-looking, crop-eared, bullet-headed
ruffian, and the fight began.

Medical students can fight ; and upon this
occasion they used their fists scientifically
and well ; but the odds were against them.
The mob swept on, and the big ruffian and
a dozen companions made a dash over the
seats, treating them as they would those of
the gallery of a theatre on a night when
they wished to express their displeasure.

Before Horace North realised the fact,
they were upon the group by where the
operating table had stood, and close to another
table upon which were bottles, glasses,
basins, sponges, and a pestle and mortar.

The young doctor was borne back as the
yell — the war-cry, ^' Yah ! Body-snatches ! "
once more arose, and as he struggled with

one scoundrel who tried to take vengeance
upon him by stealing his watch, he saw the
gray headed old surgeon struck down by the
bullet-headed, butcher-like ruffian who led
the gang ; and the fellow was about to
follow up his attack by performing a war-dance
upon the defenceless old man.

He had not time, for Horace North literally
flung himself upon the savage and drove
him from his prey, but only to be grasped in
turn by one whose greatest pleasure was
destruction, and whose unpleasant mouth
expanded into a satisfied grin as he bore
back the body of his weaker adversary, and
with it a good deal of the future of Mary
and Leo Salis linked in with that of half
the village of Duke's Hampton.

Ah, would yer ! it's my turn now."
The vengeance of his class against what
he called a " swell."

SCIENCE AT Woe.

Horace NoETH was more of the student
than the athlete, and he felt the blood rushing
to his head — a strange sensation of
vertigo which he could have aptly described
in writing, and thoroughly expressed, with all
due detail, the action going on by the compression
of certain veins and an artery. But
for a few moments, in the melee, he could do
nothing to free himself of the savage grip,
which threatened to injure him for life, if it
did not quite destroy.

But science is a fine backer of brute force.
A man with little muscle is the equal of a
ofiant when both are armed with sword or
pistol ; and could Horace North have brought

his science to bear in the shape of galvanism
or some anaesthetic, he would have had the
burly giant at his mercy instead of rapidly
losing his senses.

Galvanism was, however, not at hand, the
opportunity to administer a dose of ether or
chloroform was also wanting, and as one of
the young doctor's hands vainly grasped the
ruffian's sinewy wrist, the other fell nearly
nerveless upon the table against which he was
borne.

Here, fortunately, he found the much-needed
help of science in the shape of a pestle
of marble comfortably reposing in its native
mortar.

Horace North had often used a pestle in
peace ; he now used it in war, for his fingers
closed upon the wooden handle, the heavy
weapon described the arc of a circle, there
was a sounding rap, half an oath — barely that
and the big ruffian fell all in a heap upon
the floor.

For a few moments Horace North felt
dazed, but the fighting instinct of the man
was now roused, and as a couple of the

VOL. I. D

leader's friends came at him to avenge their
comrade's fall, one uttered a yell as the pestle
was dashed in his face, and the other a howl as
it came down with a crack upon his collarbone,
both being rendered hors de combat,
while the doctor now bestrode the prostrate
body of the old surgeon, and kept the rest
at bay.

Just at this time there was a burst of
cheering, for the students were warming to
the fray and fighting shoulder to shoulder*
The mob, disheartened by their leader's fall,
began to give way. The atmosphere of the
lecture-hall was evidently too warm, and their
retrograde movement rapidly became a rout,
in which they were swept bodily out of the
place by door and window, too much governed
by the laws of self-preservation to think even
of those who were down.

Then, as the last scoundrel was driven out,
and a tremendous cheer arose from the victors,
a strong body of police marched into the hall,
well buttoned up and beautifully cool, to find
that the work was done — all save that of

marching off half-a-dozen dizzy, unwashed
savages to the cooling cell.

Better, sir ? "

*' Eh ? Better ? Yes — a little contused.
Water ! Thank you. Yes ; better now.
Father rough proceedings."

The old man looked round rather piteously,
till his eyes lighted upon the young doctor.

"x\h ! you, Mr. North. I remember now.
Thank you. Would you mind helping me to
my carriage ? I'm rather giddy."

The task was done : the old man beings
to the hospital, and through it to a
private entrance, where his carriage was in
attendance, away from the crowd.

'' That's right. Come home with me, Mr.
North. I should like a few words with you,
if you would not mind."

Horace North gladly entered the carriage,
for he thought the old man not fit to go alone,
and in the excitement at the hospital no one
paid him the slightest attention.

"Now come to my room," said the old
man, as they where set down at his residence

D 2

in Harley Street. 'hurt? Ob, no! — a
trifle. I want to talk to you about your
plans. We'll have a cup of coffee, a cigar,
and a chat."

That chat in the great surgeon's study
lasted till daybreak, and then Horace North
walked back to his hotel with his brain on
fire. For, with his ideas to a certain extent
endorsed by the great authority he had just
quitted, he saw himself on the eve of a grand
discovery, one which should immortalise his
name and benefit his fellow-creatures to a vast
extent.

It is like taking a plunge into the unknown,"
he cried, as he walked hurriedly on,
excited beyond measure. For Horace North
was like the rest of the world — blind as to
what would happen. Had he been otherwise,
he would have buried his secret thoughts forever
sooner than have faced that which was
to come.

PARSON SALIS TAKES OFF HIS COAT.

MaPvY Salis was wrong, for her headstrong,
passionate sister was ready to do whatever
she pleased, and what pleased her then was
to obey the summons contained in the note
Dally matlock delivered to her that morning.


Her brother's face grew stern and hard ashe
walked on, to see from time to time small
footprints in the soft track, for a southerly
wind and a cloudy sky proclaimed it a hunting
morning. No dry wind had hardened
the path, and Hartley Salis felt convinced
that he knew his sister's goal.

In half-an-hour he reached Red Cliff
Wood, the great patch of ancient oaks on

the Candlisli estate tliro-ugli which the best
trout-stream in the shire — the one which
flowed through the Eectory meadows and
down at the bottom of the Manor House
garden — meandered.

His path was along by the stream, which
here and there showed upon its bank the
same traces of a pair of little feet, whose
high-heeled boots left deep imprints ; and
Hartley Salis grew more stern as he walked
on toward the depths of the wood, where
the great mass of ruddy stone cropped out
to give its name to the place, and form, as
it overhung the stream, a glorious fernery,
ever moist with the water that oozed from
the strata from foot to top.

A dozen yards farther and there was a
low whinnying noise, which came from a
handsome sorrel hunter, secured by the
bridle to a ragged old oak bough.

Not an unpleasant picture in that glorious
old mossy wood, but sufficient to make
Hartley Salis set his teeth, grip his stick
tightly, and stride rapidly on to a green
path a little farther away, where another

picture met his gaze — to wit, his sister Leo
with her back to him, and that back encircled
by a broad scarlet band, which, on
closer inspection, took the form of the arm
of a well-built man in hunting-coat and top-boots.


Hartley Salis walked swiftly toward the
group, the soft, mossy ground silencing his
approach, till he trod upon a piece of rotten
branch, which broke with a loud crack.

The couple started apart and turned to
face the intruder, when Leo uttered a gasp
of mingled shame and ano^er, and staofojered
back against a tree, leaving her brother face
to face with Tom Candlish of the Hall.

For a few moments neither spoke, and then
as the young man in scarlet got over his surprise,
he half closed his dark eyes, and a
mocking smile curved his lip.

"So it has come to this," said the curate
at last, speaking in a low voice full of suppressed
anger.

Hallo, parson ! You here ? Coming to
the meet ? " said the young man, half mockingly.


After what has passed between us '^

"Oh, come, that'll do," cried the young
man insolently. "Do you suppose you have
a right to begin preaching at me every time
you see me ? "

'*Do you suppose, sir," cried the curate,
still mastering his anger, 'That you, because
your father was the great land-holder here,,
have a right to persevere with what I have
expressly forbidden ? "

Confound your insolence, sir ! Don't
speak to me like that. What the deuce do
you mean ? "

What do I mean, sir ? 1 mean this — and
I beg that you will not ado23t that bullying
tone toward me."

Bullying tone I You shall find something
else besides a bullying tone if you interfere
with me ; " and as the young man spoke he
gave his hunting-whip a flourish.

The curate's cheeks flushed, and his brow
contracted with anger ; but he maintained
his calmness as he continued :

"You asked me what I mean. I mean
this : I, as their elder brother, and a clergyman

of the Church of England, occupy the
post of guardian to my two orphan sisters.
They are happy in their life with me at the
old Eectory, and I naturally look with
serious eyes at the man who tries to tamper
with that happiness. I should feel troubled
if a gentleman came to the house in a
straightforward, honourable way, and said tome,
* Sir, I love one of your sisters ; I ask
your permission to visit at your house ; give
sanction to the engagement ; ' but when "

Oh, if you are going to preach, I'm off.
Finish it on Sunday."

The curate's colour grew deeper as he
stepped before the young man, and stopped
his departure.

I am not going to preach, sir ; but I am
going to make you hear what I have to say."

'' Make ? "

*eyes, sir, make, in spite of your insults.
You are the brother of the chief man in this
village, and I am only the curate ; but you
are to a certain extent under me ; and now
you have driven me to it, I am, I repeat,
going to make you hear what I have to say''

Oh, are you ? '^ mockingly.

"Yes. I say, when instead of approaching
my sister in an honourable way, a man
who is noted for his blackguardly conduct
toward more than one poor girl in this village
''

"Look here, parson, is this meant as an
insult ? "

Comes to my house, and is requested
to cease his visits, and then lays
siege to the affections of one of my sisters ina
cowardly, contemptible, clandestine fashion,
I say, that man is unworthy of the treatment
I should accord to a gentleman, and calls
for that which I would give to some low-lived
cad."

Here, I say," cried Tom Candlish fiercely ;
'do you mean to tell me I am not your
sister's equal ? "

I tell you, sir, that no one who makes
himself the associate of betting men, racecourse
touts, and low-lived jockeys is the
equal of the lady you have named, while
one who, in opposition to my wishes, insists
upon writing to the weak, foolish girl, and

persuades her to meet him as you have done,
merits a sound castigation."

Once more, do you mean to tell me, I
am not your sister's equal ? "

''I do ; and no amount of repentance, sir,
for your ill-deeds would make you so."

*look here!" cried the young fellow,
"you've been talking to me like a man
sometimes, and then you've been dodging
into your clerical jargon again. I've listened
to you pretty patiently, and have
borne more than I should from any one else
because you are a parson ; but you've gone
too far, and now it's my turn. If Leo "

Miss Leonora Salis, sir."

If Leo tells me she won't have any more
to say to me, I shall go ; but as for you —
hark here. I shall write to her, I shall meet
her, and I shall ask her to meet me just as
often as I please. Not her equal, I ! Why,
you miserable, beggarly, hundred-a-year,
threadbare curate, how dare you address meas
you do ? Do you know who I am ? "

"Yes : Tom Candlish, brother of Sir Luke
Candlish, of Candlish Hall."

** Yes, sir, descendants of one of our finest
English families."

"Descendants, sir," retorted the curate,
**of a miserly, money-spinning old scoundrel,
who gave impecunious James I. so many
hundred pounds for a contemptible baronetcy,
which has come down to one of as disgraceful
a pair as ever sat like a blight upon a
pleasant English village."

You insolent hound ! " roared Tom
Candlish ; " I'll ride over to May and have
you kicked out of your curacy."

Do," said the curate.

*' No, I won't, for Leo's sake. But, look
here, master parson, don't you interfere with
me, or, by God, sir ! I'll give you the most
cursed horsewhipping I ever gave man in my
life. By George ! if it wasn't for your white
neck-cloth and black coat, hang me, I'd doit
now."

He extended one hand, as if to grasp the
curate's collar, and raised his hunting-whip
menacingly ; but in an instant it was whisked
out of his hand, and sent flying.

"You object to my white tie and black

coat, eh, Tom Candlish ? " said the curate,
rapidly throwing them off and across a
neighbouring oak branch ; " there, then, for
the time being they shall not afflict your
eyes or ])\it me out of your reach. Now
then, we are on equal terms. Strip off that
scarlet coat, you miserable popinjay."

What do you mean ? " cried Tom Candles,
turning mottled in the face.

'' I mean, sir, that words are no use to
such a scoundrel as you : that a curate is
also a man. In this case he is the lady's
brother, and in addition there are a score of
insults to wipe away. Take off your coat."

What ! " cried Tom Candlish, with a
sneering laugh. " Look here — do you know
that I can fight?"

"I know you were in a blackguardly
prize-fight, sir, in a ring where your opponent
was a sort of champion of the Milton
colliers."

"Yes, so put on your coat and go home
while you're safe."

"And I knows that I have not clenched
my fist in anger, sir, since I left Oxford,

twelve years ago ; but if you had beaten
Tom Sayers it would not move me now.
One of us two does not leave this wood
without a sound thrashing, and, please goodness,
that's going to be you."

The Reverend Hartley Salis, Mea., rapidly
rolled up his shirt-sleeves over his white
arms ; while it was observable that the
nearly new scarlet hunting-coat worn by
handsome Tom Candlish, of Candlish Hall,
came off very slowly, possibly on account of
its excellent fit.

THE doctor's patients Want HIM AT HOME.

Ah ! Horace, old man, back again ? "

*' Yes. I should have come on sooner,

but I Hallo ! gloves ! Why, what's the

matter with your hands ? "

*' Oh ! nothing. Ebbed the skin off my
knuckles. That's all''

Humph ! " said the curate's visitor —
Horace North ; and there was a curious
twinkle in his eyes. " I say, I should have
been over sooner, but I found a letter from
Luke Candlish, asking me to o-q across to
the Hall, as his brother was unwell."

Oh ! " said the curate quietly.

"Went over and found the squire nearly
drunk. He's killing himself fast."

They're a nice pair," said the curate
grimly.

More share for you to say so," cried
North. *' They're your moral patients. You
ought to improve them."

Yes," said the curate drily.

The squire was sober enough, though, to
tell me that his brother had had a nasty
accident — was going to the meet yesterday,
when his horse bolted with him, and somehow
raced off into Ked Cliff Wood, where
Tom was only able to check him right up at
the top there, where the beast threw him
and he fell crashing down from the top of
the cliff to the bottom."

"Into the stream?" said the curate quietly.

No ; I didn't hear anything about the
stream," said the doctor. " I went up and
found him swearing at one of the maids
because she was putting a poultice on his
right eye too hot. Then he began to swear
at me for not coming sooner. That raised
my dander, and I told him I'd give him a
dose that would keep him in bed for a month
if he wasn't civil."

*' Yes ? "

Well, then he cooled clown and sent the
maid away."

''Yes?''

*' And I went to work. He has had one of
the most curious falls I ever met with in
practice. His eyes are closed up — beautiful
pair of black eyes ; lip cut ; right canine
tooth in upper jaw broken short off; several
contusions on the lower jaw ; rib broken ;
and the skin off his knuckles. — Been doing
anything to your bees ? "

Bees ? What, this time of year ? No.
Why ? "

Cheek looks a little puffy. Curious fall
that of Tom Candlish. Looked more like
having been in another prize-fight. Let me
see your knuckles."

No ; they're all right. Don't humbug,
Horace, old man. You've guessed it. I gave
him a most awful thrashing."

'* Bless you, my son ! " cried the doctor,
clapping him on the shoulder.

And I feel miserable at having disgraced
myself so."

VOL. I. E

Nonsense ! Church militant. Thrashed
a confounded scoundrel. But what for ?
He has never had the insolence to ? "

He gave his head a short nod towards the
drawing-room.

"Yes, and There, I caught them

together. He has been sending notes to her
to meet him. I was in a passion, and he
insulted me ; and — and "

You pitched into the scoundrel, and
you've given him the loveliest thrashing a
man ever deserved. My dear Sails, you've
done one of the grandest deeds of your life."

I'm a clergyman, and I've behaved like
a blackguard."

"Nonsense! There's only one drawback
to what you have done."

What's that ? "

Did it when I was not there to see the
fun. Why, it's glorious."

I shall never forgive myself."

Then I'll forgive you. Why, you softhearted
old parson, you know you cannot
touch him and his rascal of a brother with

words, and you know that they are the
curses of the neighbourhood."

No reason for me to give way to temper,
and degrade myself."

'* Degrade your grandmother, sir ! You've
treated them as the Irish priests treat their
flocks. Metaphorically given Tom Candlish
the stick. It was your duty, sir, and there's
an end of it."

No ; I'm afraid there's not an end to it.
He threatens to go to May."

'bah!"

"And to lay my conduct before the
bishop."

And goes to bed and pretends his horse
threw him. Get out, you old humbug ; you'll
never hear another word."

*' I, who wish to live at peace with all
men, have made a deadly enemy."

*' Pooh ! He's a wind-bag. You've taken
the right course, and nipped that affair in
the bud. Does Leo know of it ? "

Yes."

And Mary ? "

E 2

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY Of HUNflB

'' Not a word, so be careful — hist ! someone
coming."

'* May I come in ? " said a sweet, musical
voice.

Come in ? Yes' said the young doctor
leaping up to throw open the door, and greet
Mary Salis with a frank smile and so hearty
a shake of the hand that she had hardwork
not to wince. *' There, don't come
nearer ; I smell of London smoke and blacks.
Thank goodness, I'm back home."

*' The place does not seem the same without
you," said Mary, going behind her
brother's chair, to stand with her hands
resting upon his shoulders.

I don't know about the place, but I
know I do not feel the same out of it.
Must go sometimes, though, to pick up a
few facts, or one would be left behind. Did
you go to the house ? "

*' Yes, and found Mrs. Milt very busy."

^' Bless her ! Nice game she has had,
Salis. General clear up, and my study
turned upside down. Seen old Forelock ? "

*' Yes, went yesterday," said the curate.

*' The old man was lying down, and fretting
because you were away. Said he knew he
should die before you returned."

Stuff. He'll live to a hundred ; but I'll
go and see the old boy. There, now you're
laughing," he said, turning to Mary; *snow,
don't say Mrs. Berens has been ill and
wanted me."

Why not ? " said Mary, with her pleasant
face lighting up, and a slight flush coming
into her soft cheeks. "I told you the place
did not seem the same without you."

"Mrs. Berens met me twice, and sighed
large sighs," said the curate, laughing. " Hah !
I wish they'd all be as anxious about their
souls as they are about their bodies."

** And they're not, old fellow ? " said the
doctor.

*' No. I begin to wish you were out of
the place, North, for yoa are my hated rival."

"Hartley!" said Mary reprovingly.

Ha, ha, ha ! " laughed the doctor.
*' Jealous. Never mind, old fellow. It'll
all come right in the end. There, can't stop.
I've no end to do."

"But how did you get on in London?"

'splendidly. Horribly. No end of adventures.
Tell you all about it when I
come again. Must see patients now. Must
wind up old Forelock, and set him going
again, or no bells, no clock, and no ' Amens '
on Sunday."

'' "Well, we could do without the last," said
the curate, smiling. " Going to see Mrs.
Berens ? "

The doctor made a comical grimace.

*must," he said ; "but, 'pon my word, I
always feel ashamed to charge for my visits.
She's as well as you are. Miss Salis."

But she's always better when you've
been to feel her pulse," said the curate,
laughing.

Get out ! " cried the doctor merrily.

*' I say. North, don't be shabby."

What do you mean ? "

Don't slip off, and be married in
London. Have it here, and let me get
my fees."

*' Now, beware," said the doctor, shaking
his fist playfully. '' I never have slain a

man wilfully ; but if you tempt me there's no
knowing what I may do when I have you
stretched helpless in bed."

'^I defy you," cried the curate, laughing.
** See how guilty he looks, Mary."

Hartley ! " said Mary reprovingly, and
she pressed his shoulder.

Now that proves it," said the doctor.
Go to, thou miserable impostor ! Have I
not seen the fair, plump, sweet widow smiling
softly on thee ? Have not I heard her
sigh over her soup when you have been laying
down the law at dinner ? "

Nonsense, nonsense ! " said the curate,
frowning.

*sand have I not seen her look grave
when you came to firstly in your Sunday
sermon ; take out her scent-bottle at secondly ;
lean back in rapt adoration at thirdly ;
and when it got to ninthly begin to shed
tears, shake her head softly, and look as
if she were mentally saying, ' Oh, what a
sermon we have had.' "

I say, North, don't banter," said the
curate, with a half vexed expression.

Why, you hit me first. Didn't he, Miss
Salis ? "

Mary nodded.

There, sir. Judged by our fair Portia
herself. But I must go. Good-bye, old
fellow. Chess to-night ? "

''By all means," said the curate.

Here or there 1 "

*' Oh, come on here," cried the curate ; and,
with a kindly message for Leo and a hearty
shake of the hand to each, the doctor hurried
away.

I am glad he's back," said the curate
seriously. '* Aren't you, Mary ? "

"Very," she replied. "We miss our
friends."

'' Yes, and he is a good old fellow as ever
stepped ; so frank, so manly, and straightforward.
I don't know what the poor
people here would do if he were to leave."

You don't think he will leave ? " said
Mary anxiously.

Leave ? Not he. He likes his old home
too well. I say, though, seriously, dear, you
don't think he cares for Mrs. Berens ? "

*' Oh, no, Hartley," said Mary, with a
confident smile. " I am sure he thinks of
nothing but his profession."

Exactly. I often think the same, but I
often wish something."

What, dear ? " said Mary earnestly.

That he had taken a fancy to Leo. It
would have been a happy day for me to
have seen her with such a protector for
life."

Yes," said Mary softly. ''He is a true
gentleman at heart."

Why, Mary," cried the curate enthusiastically,
" he never takes a penny of any
of the poor folk, and he works for them like
a slave. The nights I've known him pass
at a sick bedside. Well, thank God, we have
such a man here."

** Amen," said Mary softly.

There's Leo," said the curate, as she was
seen to pass down one of the paths of the
garden. " Mary, my child, if that could be
brought about, it would be her saving, and
make me a happy man."

Mary rested her hands more firmly upon

her brother's shoulder, and turned to watch
her sister ; and, as she did so, her sweet,
pensive face grew more grave and her
brother's was averted, so that he could
not read its secret, neither did he hear the
sigh that softly rose as her eyes were suffused
with tears.

DR. North VISITS THE SEXTON.

"Nonsense, Hartley, she is as quiet as a
lamb."

'Tm not so sure of that," said the curate,
who looked rather anxiously at a handsome,
weedy gray cob just led round to the
front.

His sisters were standing ready to go
and make a call, and his brow wrinkled a
little as he noted a peculiar fidgety expression
about the mare's ears.

Why, Hartley, how foolish you are ! "
cried Leo. "You stop indoors reading till
you are as nervous as Mrs. Berens."

Eh ? Yes. Well, I suppose I am," said
the curate good-humouredly. " But be careful

; I'm always a little uncomfortable about
strange mares. Will you have an extra rein ? ''

Absurd ! '' said Leo. " There, you shall
be humoured. Tell him to buckle it lower
down."

The girl looked very handsome and animated,
and, since the scene in the wood
with Tom Candlish, had been so penitent
and patient that her brother had shrunk
from checking her in any way.

The mare had duly arrived, and, apparently
bending to her brother's will, Leo
had patiently seen it put in harness — degraded,
as she called it — and as it went very
well they were going on the present morning
drive.

Hartley Salis tried to hide his anxiety,
and turned to chat with Mary, who looked
rather pale — the consequence of a headache,
as she said ; and as he talked he felt more
and more between the horns of a dilemma.

Mary did not want to go, he knew. He
did not want her to go, but, paradoxical as
it may sound, he did want her to go. For
choice he would have gone himself; but he

knew that if he did Leo would look upon it
as distrust — not of her power to manage
the new mare, but of her word. For she
had as good as promised him that she would
see Tom Candlish no more, and he felt that
he was bound to show in every way possible
that he enjoyed a confidence that he really
did not feel. With Mary to bear Leo company
he knew that she was safe, and even
that would bear the aspect of espionage ;
but the girl had accepted the position, and
they were ready to start.

The trio where on their way to the gate
when the new mare uttered a loud thinning
noise which was answered from a distance.
There was the sound of hoofs, and directly
after North trotted up.

Mary drew" a deep breath, and her nervousness
in connection with her ride was
killed by one greater, which forced her to
rouse all her energies, so as to be calm
during the coming encounter.

'morning," cried the doctor merrily, ashe
shook hands with all in turn. *' Going
to try the new mare ? "

*^ Yes," said the curate eagerly, while Leo
was quiet and distant, and Mary her own
calm self. *' What do you think of her ? "

The doctor, who, like most country gentlemen
who keep a nag, considered himself a
bit of a judge, looked the mare over, and
grew critical.

*' Well bred'' he said, at the end of a few
moments.

*' Oh ! I am glad," said Mary, eager to
break the chilly silence that prevailed.

I meant by descent," said the doctor
merrily. " I don't know how she behaves."

Oh ! " ejaculated Mary, in a disappointed
tone, while Leo looked on scornfully.

But she seems quiet ? " said the curate
anxiously.

Ye — es," replied the doctor dubiously, ashe
continued his examination. 'rather a
wicked look about one eye."

*' Don't, pray. Dr. North," said Leo petulantly.
" My brother is quite fidgety enough
about the mare. She is of course a little
more mettlesome than our poor old plodding
horse ; but a child might drive her."

Oh, yes, of course," said the doctor, in a
tone which seemed to say, " But I would
not answer for the consequences." Then
aloud : " Bit swollen about that hock. May
mean nothing*. Nice-looking little things,
Salis."

I'm glad you like her," said the curate
eagerly.

'* I did not say I liked her, old fellow,"
replied North. ** I said she was well
bred."

"But you don't think she is dangerous
for ladies ? "

''Oh, Hartley! How absurd!" cried
eo.

Dangerous ? surely not," said the doctor.
'' Have tried her yourself, of course ? "

"Well, no," replied the curate. *' I have
been so busy : but the man has driven her
several times."

"And says she goes very quietly," said
Leo pettishly. " Hartley never has any confidence
in my driving."

Indeed, yes," said the curate, smiling at
his sister affectionately. " I know that you

drive well, and are a clever horsewoman. I
am only anxious about your driving a strange
horse."

'* But Leo will be very careful," said
Mary, interposing to end a scene which was
agony to her. " I am quite ready, Leo."

Yes, let's go," said the latter. ^^ Hartley
wants to sell you the horse at a profit,
Dr. North," she added banteringly. *' Good
morning all."

The curate said no more, but handed his
sisters into the light low phaeton, Leo taking
the reins in the most business-like manner
before mounting, and then sitting upright
on the raised seat in a way that would have
satisfied the most exacting whip.

The mare started ofi" at a touch, with her
neck arched and her head well down, the
wheels spinning merrily in unison with the
sharp trot of the well-shaped hoofs.

An uncommonly pretty little turn-out,
old fellow," said the doctor, as he sat in the
saddle watching critically till the chaise
turned the corner ; " and your sister drives
admirably."

Yes," said the curate rather dolefully ;
*' she drives like she rides."

And that's better than any lady who
follows our pack of hounds," cried the doctor.
Now, if I had been anything of a fellow, I
should have cantered along by their side,
and shown myself oflP."

"You would," assented the curate; and
his countenance seemed to say, ^'I wish you
bad."

But, there, I am not anything of a
fellow, and I have patients waiting, so here
o'oes."

He pressed his horse's flanks, and went
off in the other direction at a trot, while the
curate, with his troubled look increasing,
walked into the house.

I suppose the mare's Cjuite safe," he
said ; " and it pleases her. May take her
attention off him. Poor Leo ! It is very
sad."

Meanwhile the doctor continued his wav
till he reached the stocks — a dilapidated
set, as ancient-looking as the whipping-post
which kept them company, and both dying

VOL. I. F

their worm-eaten death, as the custom of
using them had died generations before.

But they had their use still, the doctor's
horse stopping short by them, as if he knew
his goal, and his master dismounting, and
throwing his rein over the post before entering
a low cottage, with red tile sides and
thick thatch roof. The door was so low
that he had to stoop his head to enter a
scrupulously clean cottage room, with uneven
red brick floor, brightly-polished stove, with
a home-made shred hearth rug in front, and
for furniture a well-scrubbed deal table, a
high Windsor chair, a beautifully - carved
old oaken chest or coffer, and a great, old-fashioned,
eight-day clock, whose heavy pendulum,
visible through a glazed hole in its
door, swung ponderously to right and said
which ! and then to left and said clack !

Empty as the old room was in one respect
it was full in another, and that was of a
faint ancient smell of an indescribable nature.
It was not very unpleasant ; it was not the
reverse ; but it had one great peculiarity — to
wit, that of exciting a desire on the part of a

visitor to know what it was, till his or her eye
rested upon the occupant of the tall armed
Windsor chair, in which sat Jonadab Forelock,
clerk and sexton of Duke's Hampton, when
the idea came that the strange ancient odour
must be that of decay.

Well, old chap, how are wee this morning
? " said the doctor cheerily.

The red-eyed, yellow-skinned, withered
old man placed his hands on the arms of his
chair, raised himself an inch or two, o-ave his
head a bob, and subsided again, as he shook
his head.

Bad, doctor — mortal bad ; and if you
goes away again like that you'll find me dead
and buried when back you comes."

Nonsense, Forelock ; there are years
upon years of good life in you yet."

Nay, doctor, nay," moaned the old
fellow.

'' But I say yes. Why, you're only ninety."

Ninety-three, doctor — ninety-three, and
'most worn out."

*' Nonsense ; there's a deal of work to begot
out of you yet. Had your pipe ? "

F 2

*' Pipe ? No. How can a man have a
pipe who has no tobacco ? "

"Ah well, never mind," said the doctor,
*' I've brought you some physic."

"Then I won't take it," cried the old man
angrily. " I won't take it, and I won't pay
for it, not a penny."

Wait till you're asked," said the doctor
drily, as he threw a packet of tobacco in the
old fellow's lap. " There's your medicine.
Now say you will not take it if you dare."

The old man's red-rimmed eyes twinkled
at the sight of the shredded-up weed, around
which his hand closed like the claws of a
hawk. Then rising slowly, he took down
from the chimney piece a curious-looking old
tobacco - box, which seemed as if it had
been hammered out of a piece of sheet lead,
and began to stuff the tobacco in.

*' Where did you get that leaden box,.
Forelock ? " said the visitor.

I — I made it," said the old man, with a
furtive look.

Made it ! I thought as much. Coffin
lead, eh ? "

Xever you mind about that, doctor. I
found the lead when I was dio^grino-."

•' And did you find that oak chest when
you were diororin gr you old rascal ? ''

Nay, nay, nay, that's nowt to do wi'
you, doctor. Physic's your business, and not
bits o' furniture' in people's houses."

'•'Ah, well, we won't quarrel about that,
Forelock ; only I've taken a fancy to that old
chest. I'll buy it of you."

Nay, you won't, doctor ; it isn't for
sale."

'•' Then leave it to me in your will."

Nay, and I shan't do that. It's for my
grandchild, Daily, who's up yonder at the
Eectory, you know — her as had the measles
when she was seventeen."

'' Ah, yes, I know — the dark-eyed, rosy-cheeked
hussy. Lucky girl to inherit that
chest."

Ay, but I don't know as she'll get it,
doctor. Hussy ! Yes, that's it. That's what
she is, and if I see her talking to young
Squire Luke Candlish's brother, Tom Candlish,
ao-ain, she shan't have the chest."

Then Til set Tom Candlisli to talk to lier
again, and then you'll leave it to me."

Na', you won't, doctor. I know you
better than that. But he's a bad 'un. So's
the squire. They're both bad 'uns. I know
more about 'em than they think, and if
Squire Luke wasn't churchwarden, I could
say a deal."

*' And you will not ? " said the doctor.
'' Well, I must be going. I say, though, did
you get me that skull ? "

Nay, nay, nay," said the old man, shaking
his head, as he lit his pipe, and began
smoking very contentedly, with his eyes half
closed. " I couldn't get no skulls, doctor. It
would be sackerlidge and dissertation, and as
honos as I'm saxton there shall be nothing: of
that kind at Duke's Hampton. Bowles does
it at King's Hampton : but no such doings
nere.

'' But I want it for anatomical purposes,
my good man."

Can't help it, sir. I couldn't do it."

'now what nonsense; it's only lending
me a bone."

'' You said sell it to you," said the old
man sharply.

sewell, sell it. I'll buy it of you."

"Nay, nay, nay. What would Parson
Salis say if I did such a thing ? He'd turn
me out of being saxton, neck and crop."

*' Ah, well, I won't worry you, old fellow ;
and I must o^o now."

o

"Nay, don't go yet, doctor," cried the old
man querulously. " You haven't sounded me,
nor reeled me, nor nothing."

Haven't I given you some comforting-medicine
? "

^' Yes, doctor ; bit o' 'banco does me
good ; but do feel my pulse and look at
my tongue."

Ah, well, let's look," said the doctor, and
he patiently examined according to rote.
It's Anno Domini, Forelock — Anno
Domini."

Is it, now, doctor ? Ah, you always did
understand my complaint. If it hadn't been
for you, doctor "

We should have had a new sexton at
Duke's Hampton before now, eh ? "

'eyes, doctor," said the old man, with a
shudder.

Well, without boasting, old chap, I
think I did pull you through that last
illness."

*' Yes, doctor, you did, you did ; and don't
go away again. You were away seven days —
seven mortal days of misery to me."

*soh, but you're all right," said the doctor,
looking curiously at the old man.

Nay, nay, nay. I thought I should have
died before you come back, doctor ; that I
did."

"But you're better now."

Yes, I'm better now, doctor. I feel safer-like,
and I've got so much to do that I can't
afford to be ill."

And die ? "

Nay, nay, nay ; not yet, not yet, not yet,
doctor ! "

*' Ah, well, I'm glad I do you good, More-dock
; but I think you might have lent me
that skull."

"You said sell, doctor's cried the old
man.

Of course I should have paid you. But
I suppose I must respect your scruples."

Ay, do, doctor, and come oftener. Anno
Domini, is it ? "

Yes."

'Ain't a killing disease, is it, doctor ? "

Indeed but it is, old fellow. But, there,
I'll come in now and then and oil your works,
and keep you going as long as I can."

"Do, doctor, do, please. I shall feel so
much safer when you've been."

All right. Good-day, Forelock."

"Good-day, doctor," said the old man,
gripping his visitor's arm tightly with a hook-like
claw.

"Good-day; and if you do overcome your
scruples, I should like that skull. It would
be useful to me now."

The old man kept tightly hold of his
visitor's arm, and hobbled to the door to
look out, and then, still gripping hard at the
arm, he said in a strange, cachinnatory way,
as he laid down his pipe :

He-he-he ! hi-hi-hi ! I've got it for you,
doctor."

*' What ? The skull r'

Hush ! Of course I have ; only one
must make a bit o' fuss over it. Sackerlidge
and dissertation, you know."

"Oh! I see."

I wouldn't do such a thing for any one
but a doctor, you know. Anno Domical
purposes, eh ? "

'* You're getting the purpose mixed up
with your disease, Forelock," said the doctor,
as the old man took out a key from the pocket
of his coat, and, after blowing in it and tapping
it on the table, prior to drawing a pin
from the edge of his waistcoat and treating
the key as if it were a periwinkle, he crossed
to the old oak coffer.

Just shut that door, doctor," he said.
*' That's right. Now shove the bolt. Nobody
aren't likely to come unless Dally Watlock
does, for she always runs over when she aren't
wanted, and stops away when she is. Thanks,
doctor."

He stooped down, looking like some
curious old half - bald bird, to unlock the
chest, and then, after raising the lid a short

distance, in a cunningly secretive way, he
thrust in one arm, and brought out a dark-looking
human skull.

*' Ha ! yes," cried the doctor, taking the
grisly relic of mortality in his hands. '' Yes,
that's a very perfect specimen ; but it's a
woman's, evidently. I wanted a man's."

You said sell you a skull," said the old
man angrily. *' You never said nowt about
man or woman."

''No. It was an oversight. There, never
mind."

*' Ay, but I do mind," grumbled the old
man. " I like to sadersfy my customers.
Give it me back."

But this will do."

'* Nay, nay, nay ; it won't do," cried the
old man peevishly. '' Give it to me."

The doctor handed back the skull, and the
old man hastily replaced it in the coffer, hesitated
a few moments, and then brought out
another skull.

Ah ! that's right," cried the doctor
eagerly; "the very thing. How much?"

** Nay, nay, nay ; I'm not going to commit

sackerlidge and dissertation. I can't
sell it."

But you are not going to give it tome
? "

'' Nay ; I only thought as you might put
anything you like on the chimbleypiece."

"I see'' said the doctor, smiling, and
placing a small gold coin there, the old
man watching eagerly the while. '' But I
say, Forelock, how many more have you
got in that chest ? "

Got ? — there ? " said the old man suspiciously.
" Oh ! only them two. Nothing
more — nothing more." But the next instant,
as if won over to confidence in his visitor,
or feeling bound to trust him, he screwed
up his face in a strange leering way. and
opened the coffer wide.

You may look in," he said. '' You're a
doctor, and won't tell. They're for the
doctors."

*' Your customers, eh ? "
'customers?" said the old man sharply;
'' who said a word about customers ? "

*' You did. So you deal in those things ? "

*' No, no ; not deal in 'em. I find one
sometimes — very old — very old. Been in
the earth a mort o' years."

As he spoke he watched the doctor curiously
while he inspected the specimens of
osteology in the oak chest. Then, taking
up a tin canister from the bottom, he gave
it a shake, the contents rattling loudly, and
upon opening it he displayed it half full of
white, sound teeth.

'dentist," he said, with a grin, which
showed his own two or three blackened
fangs. " They uses 'em. False teeth. People
thinks they're ivory. So they are."

Why, Forelock, what a wicked old
wretch you are," said the doctor. *' I don't
wonder you feel afraid to die."

Wicked ? No more wicked than my
neighbours, doctor. Every one's afraid to
die, and wants to live longer. Wicked !
How could I save a few pounds together, to
keep me out o' the works when I grows
old, if I didn't do something like this ? "

"Ah, how indeed?" said the doctor, looking
half-wonderingly at the strange old being.

'rand my grandchild, Daily, up at the
Rectory. Man must save — must save. Besides,
it's doing good."

'' Good, eh ? "

Yes," said the old fellow, with a hideous
grin. " Lots o' them never did no good in
their lives, and maybe they're thankful now
they're dead to find that, after all, they're
some use to their fellow-creatures."

"Ah! Forelock, people are always ready
to find an excuse for their wrong-doing:.
Seems to me that I ought to expose you up
at the Eectory."

'' Nay, you won't tell the parson, doctor ? "
said the old man, with a chuckle,

"No, I shall say nothing, Forelock."

No, doctor, you can't. You're in it. You
set me to get that for you."

There, stop that confounded laugh of
yours, and take this quietly to the Manor
House to-night. Shall you be well enough ? "

"Have — have you got any more o' that
Hollands gin, doctor ? " whispered the old
man, with a leer.

"About another glassful, I dare say."

"Then I shall be well enough to come,
doctor. Nobody shall see what it is. And
look here : you keep me alive and well, and
you shall have anything you want, doctor.
Parson's master in the church, but I'm
master outside, and in the tombs, and in
the old Candlish moslem. Like to see in
it, doctor ? "

Pah ! not I. See enough of the miserable
breed alive without seeing them dead.
Good-morning."

He remounted his horse, and rode out of
the village by the main road, to draw rein
at a pretty ivy-covered villa, whose well-kept
garden and general aspect betokened wealth
and some refinement.

*' Mrs. Berens at home ? " he asked, as the
drag at a bell sent a silvery tinkle through
the house.

The neat maid-servant drew back with a
smile, and the doctor entered, and was shown
into a pretty drawing-room, where he stood
beating his boot with his riding-whip, and
looking scornfully at the ornaments, lace, and
gin cracks around.

A FRESH PATIENT.

"I ALWAYS feel like a fly," the doctor muttered
— " a fly alighted upon a spider's web.
The widow wants a husband. I wish someone
would snap her up."

'*Ah! doctor — at last," said a pleasant
voice, which sounded as if it had passed
through swan's-down, while a strong odour
of violets helped the illusion.

"Yes, at last, Mrs. Berens," said the
doctor, taking the extended, soft, white hand
of the pleasant, plump lady of eight-and-thirty
or forty, whose whole aspect was suggestive
of a very pretty, delicate-skinned baby
grown large. "Why, how well you look."

Oh, doctor ! "

Indeed you do. Why, from your note
I was afraid that you were seriously ill."

And I have been, doctor. In such a
low, nervous state. At one time I felt as if
I should sink. But " — with a sio^h — " I am
better now."

The lady waved her kerchief towards a
chair, and seated herself upon an ottoman,
where, in obedience to the suggestion, she
once more laid her hand in the doctors firm
white palm, wherein Jonadab Forelock's
gnarled, yellow, horny paw had so lately
lain ; and as the strong fingers closed over
the delicate white flesh, and a couple glided
to the soft round wrist, the patient sighed.

**'0h, doctor, I do feel so safe when you
are here. It would be too hard to die so
Youno^."

The doctor looked up quickly.

"Now that's wicked," said the lady reproachfully,
" because I said ^ so young.'
Well, I'm not quite forty, and that is young.
Is my pulse very rapid ? "

No, no. A little accelerated, perhaps.
You seem to have been fretting."

VOL. I. G

'eyes, that's it, doctor. I have," said
the lady.

What a fool I am ! " he said to himself,
as he released the hand. Then aloud : " I
see, I see. Little mental anxiety. You want
tone, Mrs. Berens."

"Yes, doctor, I do," she sighed.

Now what should you say if I prescribed
a complete change ? "

A complete change, doctor ? " said the
lady, whose pulse was now certainly accelerated.


Yes. That will be better than any of
my drugs. A pleasant little two months'
trip to Baden or Homburg, where you can
take the waters and enjoy the fresh air."

"Oh, doctor, I could not go alone."

Humph ! No. It would be dull. Well,
take a companion. Why not one of the
parson's sisters? Mary Salis — or, no,"
he added, quickly, as he recalled certain
family troubles that had been rumoured.
Why not Leo Salis ? "

Oh, no, doctor," said the lady, with a
decisive shake of the head. I don't think

]\Ii.-ss Leo Salis and I would set on tooretlier
lono;.''

"The other, then," said the doctor.

Xo, no. Prescribe some medicine forme.


*but you don't want medicine."

*' Indeed, doctor, but I do. Ill take anything
you like to prescribe."

*' But "

'•' Now, doctor, I am low and nervous, and
you must humour me a little. I could not
bear to be sent away. I should feel as if I
had o-one over there to die."

** When I guarantee that you would come
back strong and well ? "

'•' No, doctor, no. You must not send me
away. Deal gently with me, and let me
stop in my own nest. Ah, if you only knew
my sufferings."

Dr. Horace North felt as if he fully knew,
and was content to stand off at a distance,
for though everything was extremely ladylike
and refined, and there was a touch of
delicacy mingled with her words, he could
not help interpreting the meaning of the

G 2

widow's siojhs and the satisfied look of
pleasure which caaie over her countenance
when he was at hand to feel her pulse.

I do know your sufferings," he said
gravely, '' and you may rely upon me to
bring any little skill I can command to bear
upon your complaint. Think again over the
idea of change."

*' Oh, no, doctor," said the lady quickly.
I could not go."

"Ah, well, I will not press you," he said,
rising. " I'll try and prescribe something
that will give you tone."

You are not going, doctor," said the lady,
in alarm. '' Why, you have only this moment
come."

*' Patients to see, my dear madam."

No, it is not that. I worry you with my
complaints. I am very, very tiresome, I own."

'* Nonsense, nonsense," said the doctor ;
but really I must hurry away."

Without seeing my drawings, and the
books I have had down from town ! Ah ! I
am sure I bore you with my murmuring. A
sick woman is a burden to her friends."

** If some one would only fetch me away
in a hurry, I'd bless him," thought the
doctor.

*' There are times, doctor, when a few
words of sympathy would make me bear
my lot more easily, and "

'' Wheels, by George ! " exclaimed the
doctor.

If you only knew "

"There's something bolted."

*•' The dead vacancy in my poor heart."

"A regular smash if they don't lookout.
AYoa, Tom! Steady, my lad!" cried the
doctor, opening the French window and
stepping out on to the lawn.

Doctor, for pity's sake," sobbed Mrs.
Berens, in anguished tones.

The patient's voice was so ^ pitiful that
the doctor could not resist the appeal, and
though called as it were on both sides, he
stepped rapidly back into the little drawing-room
in time to catch the fainting widow in
his arms.

Unfortunately for poor Mrs. Berens, who
had for long felt touched by the young

doctor, a lady in distress, mental or bodily,
or both, was always a patient to Dr, North,
and he only retained her in his arms just
long enough to lower her down in a corner
of a soft couch, before rushing out of the
window and through the o-ate, where his
tied-up horse was snorting and kicking.

The poor brute had cause, for the rapid
running of wheels and beat of hoofs were
produced by Hartley Salis's phaeton and the
new mare, which came down the road at a
frantic gallop, with Mary clinging to the
side of the vehicle, pale with dread, and
Leo, apparently quite retaining her nerve,
seated perfectly upright in her place, but
unable to control the mare, one rein having
given way at the buckle hole, and a pull at
the other being so much madness.

They had come along for quite a mile at
a headlong pace, till n earing Mrs. Berens'
house, Leo caught sight of the doctor s cob,
which pricked up its ears and began to rear
and plunge.

To have kept on as they were meant a
collision, and there was nothing left now for

the driver to do but draw gently upon the
sound rein.

The pull given was vain, and a sharp one
followed, just in time to make the half-bred
mare swerve and avoid the doctor's cob ;
but the consequence was that the fore wheel
of the phaeton caught a post on the other
side of the road. There was a crashing sound,
a wild scream, and the cause of the accident
went off at a more furious pace than ever,
with the shafts dangling and flying about
her legs.

Hurt ? No, not much," cried the doctor,
half lifting Leo from the grass at the side of
the road ; and hurrying to where Mary lay
staring wildly, entangled among the fragments
of the chaise.

'* My poor child ! " he cried. " Oh, this is

bad work. Try and Here ! Miss Leo —

Mrs. Berens. Water — brandy — for Heaven's
sake, quick ! "

HOW I DO HATE THAT GIRL ! "

Oh ! my poor darling ! "

It was Mrs. Berens who spoke ; the
accident, and its consequent call upon her
for aid, having in an instant swept away
all thought of self, and shown her at once
in her best colours, full of true womanly
sympathy.

Leo stood leaning against the hedge, dazed
and perfectly helpless, while Mrs. Berens
came running out to help ; but only to rush
m asrain and return with a decanter and
water.

Is she — is she "

Hush ! " whispered the doctor sternly ;
*try and pour a few more drops between

her lips, and keep on bathing her forehead
till I get her out."

Mrs. Berens was down upon her knees on
one side of Mary Salis, with her hands and
delicate dress bedaubed with blood ; but
she did not heed the dust or hideous stains
as she passed her left arm beneath the poor
girl's neck, and held her with her cut and
bruised face resting upon her bosom, while
the doctor tore hard at the crooked woodwork
and iron which held the sufferer pinned
down.

Leo Salis," said the doctor impatiently,
if you're not hurt, don't stand dreaming
there, but run off to the village for help."

Leo stared at him wildly for a moment or
two, and then walked hastily away, holding
her left wrist in her right hand, as if she
were in pain.

Hah ! That's better," cried the doctor,
as he set one foot against a portion of the
iron-work, and pulled with all his might,
his effort being followed by a loud cracking
noise, and the iron bent. "Now, Mrs.
Berens, I think we can lift her out."

'' Yes ; let me help," cried the widow
energetically, and seeming quite transformed
as she assisted in bearing the inanimate girl
into the drawing-room.

Quick, Mary, pillows," she cried ; and
her round-eyed, helpless maid ran upstairs,
to return with the pillows, by whose aid
Mary Salis was placed in a comfortable
position.

Without its beinoj suo;2:estecl, Mrs. Berens
herself fetched basin, sponge, and towels,
with which the blood and dust were removed,
the widow colouring once hio^hlv
as the doctor awarded her a word of praise.

'* Cut in the temple. Hair will cover it,"
said the doctor, as he rapidly dressed the
insensible girl's injuries. "Nasty contusion
there on the cheek — slight abrasion."

Will it disfigure her, doctor ? " said Mrs.
Berens anxiously.

Oh ! no — soon disappear."

"What a comfort," sighed the widow,
who evidently believed that a young lady's
face was her fortune. '' Is she much hurt,
doctor ? "

No ; I am in hopes that she is only
suffering from the concussion. That bleeding:
has been brood for her. She is comines


'poor darling"' cried Mrs. Berens, tenderly
kissing Mary's hand.

*' You're an uncommonly good, useful
woman, Mrs. Berens," said the doctor
bluntly. " I did t think you had it in you."

Oh, doctor ! " she cried.

Spoilt your dress and lace too. But,
never mind, it will bring her round. Ah !
that's better; she's coming to.'

"Is she?"

The doctor pointed to the quivering lips,
as the next minute there was a wears sio-h,
and Mary Salis opened her eyes to gaze
wildly round, and then made an effort as if
to rise, but she only raised her head and let
it fall back with a moan.

'rare you in pain ?" said the doctor, as he
took her hand.

She looked at him wildly, and a faint
colour came into her cheek as she whispered
hoarsely :

Yes. Send — for a doctor."

He is here, my poor dove," cried Mrs.
Berens. " Don't you know him — Dr. North ? "'

Yes ; but send — for some one — a doctor's

A little wandering," whispered North,
bending over Mary, who tried to shrink
from him. '^ Now," he said gently, " try
and tell me where you feel pain. I must
see to it at once."

No, no. Don't touch me — a doctor —
send for a doctor," answered Mary.

But Mr. North is a doctor, my poor
dear," cried Mrs. Berens.

'send — for a doctor," whispered Mary
again ; and then she uttered a faint cry of
indignation and dread commingled as, thinking'
of nothing but the case before him, the
doctor began to make the necessary preliminary
examination, to stop short at the
end of a minute, and lay his hand upon the
patient's forehead, aghast at the discovery
he felt that he had made.

Don't resent this," he said kindly.
Believe me, it is necessary, and I will not
give you more pain than I can help."

Mrs. Berens," sobbed the poor girl,
••' your band."

My darling ! "' cried the widow, taking
the extended hand, to hold it pressed against
her lips.

Now, Miss Salis," said the doctor, '' I
want you to move yourself gently — a little
more straight upon the couch."

She looked at him strangely.

*' Now, please," he said. ''' It will be an
easier position."

But still she did not move.

Did you try ? " he said rather hoarsely.

Yes — I tried," she said faintly ; and
then the flush deepened in her face again,
as the doctor bent over the couch, and
changed the position in which she lay.

'' Did I hurt you ? " he said.

'* No. Did you move me 1 " she faltered ;
-and Mrs. Berens looked at him inquiringly.

'Must a trifle," he said gravely. ''Ah!
Iiere's Salis."

There was a quick step outside, and the
curate rushed in, followed more slowly by
Leo, who looked ghastly.

*•' Mary, my dear child," he cried, throwing
himself upon his knees beside his sister,
are you much hurt ? "

I think not, Hartley, dear," she replied,
with a smile. "My head is not so giddy
now'

*' Oh ! what a madman I was to let you
go," he cried.

** Hush, dear ! It was an accident," said
the poor girl tenderly. ''I shall soon be
better. You are hurting Leo. She suffers
more than I."

That cursed mare, North. She looked
vicious. How was it, Leo ? "

*' She pulled, and one of the reins broke,"
said Leo hoarsely. '* There would have been
an accident with any horse."

"Yes, yes, of course," said Mary faintly;
and I am very sorry, Hartley. The chaise
the expense. Thank dear Mrs. Berens,
and now let me try and walk home."

''No, no, my dear," said Mrs. Berens,
you must not think of going. Stay here,
and be nursed. I'll try so hard to make you
well."

** I know you would' said Mary gently ;
"but I shall be better at home. Leo, dear,
help me up. No, no, Hartley ; I did not
want to send you away. I'm better now."

She made an effort to rise, as the doctor
looked on with eager eyes awaiting the result,
at which his lips tightened, and he glanced
at Mrs. Berens.

For Mar' Salis moved her hands and
arms, and slightly raised her head, but let
it fall again, and looked from one to the other
wildly, as if her perplexity were greater than
she could bear.

Hartley Salis caught his friend by the
wrist, and then yielded himself, and followed
the doctor as he moved from the room.

"North, old fellow," he said, in an eager
whisper, " what does that mean ? Is she
much hurt ? "

"Try and bear it like a man, Salis. It
may not be so bad as I fear, but I cannot
hide from you the truth."

The truth ! Good heavens, man, speak
out ! "

Hush ! She is too weak from the shock

to bear it now. Let her learn it by degrees,
only thinking at present that she is nerveless
and stunned,"

But you don't mean Oh, North ! "

cried the curate, in agony.

Salis, old friend, it would be cruel to
keep back the truth," said the doctor, taking
his hand. *' It may not be so bad, but I fear
there is some terrible injury to the spine."

*' Good heavens ! " cried Salis wildly ;
that means paralysis and death."

Let's hope not, old friend."

Hope ! " cried the curate wildly. " How
has that poor girl sinned that she should
suffer this ? "

At that moment the truth had come home
to Mary Salis that her injury was terrible
in extent, and she lay there gazing wildly at
her handsome sister, but seeing beyond her
in the long, weary vista of her own life a
helpless cripple, dragging her way slowly
onward towards the end.

Then there was a low, piteous sigh, and
Mrs. Berens came quickly to the door.

"Doctor," she whispered, "come back.
Fainted ! "

North hurried back into the room, to
find Mary Salis lying back, white as if cut
in marble, while her sister stood gazing at
her in silence, making no movement to be
of help.

*show I do hate that girl!" he muttered,
as he went down on one knee by the couch.

VOL. I.

DR. North SEES A WHITE MARK.

Patient never had more assiduous attention
than Mary Salis received from Dr. North.
He had formed his opinions about her case,
but insisted upon having further advice, and
Mr. Delton — the old savant of the lecture —
was proposed.

I'm afraid he will want a heavy fee,
Salis," said North; 'but you ought to make
a sacrifice at a time like this, and his opinion
is the best."

'any sacrifice; every sacrifice," said the
curate. " Send for him at once."

Mr. Delton came down and held a consultation
with North.

He seated himself afterwards by Mary's

couch, where she, poor girl, lay, flushed, and
suffering agony mentally and bodily, consequent
upon this visit.

But when the gray-headed old man took
her hand between both his, and sat gazing
in her eyes, those eyes brimmed over mali
tears. The fatherly way won upon her, and
she said softly, as she clung to him :

Tell me the worst."

He remained silent, gazing at her fixedly
for some time, but at last he raised and
kissed her hand.

I will speak out," he said gently, " because
I can read in your sweet young face
resignation and patience. To another, perhaps,
I should have preached patience and
hope ; to you I feel that it would be a
mockery, and I only say, bear your misfortune
by palliating it with the work your intellect
will supply."

"Always to be a cripple, doctor — a helpless
cripple ? " she moaned.

My child, your life has been spared.
Patience. What seems so black now may
appear brighter in time. You have those

H 2

you love about you, and there is the faint
hope that some day you may recover."

Faint hope, doctor ? "

I must say faint, my child. And now
good-bye. I shall hear about you from our
friend North. I congratulate you on having
so able a friend. You may trust him implicitly.
Good-bye."

He raised her hand to his lips — a very
unprofessional proceeding, but it did not seem
so to Mary, as she lay there and watched
the bedroom door close.

Trust him ? Yes," sighed Mary, as she
lay with her hands clasped, thinking of
Horace North's many kindly attentions to
his patient. " Yes, to his patient ! " she
said bitterly. " A hopeless cripple ! Oh,
God, give me strength to bear it without
repining. Good-bye, good-bye, my love — my
love ! "

There was a little scene going on in the
dining-room at the Rectory, for in spite of
Mrs. Berens' protestations, Mary Salis had
been carried home.

The curate had thanked the old surgeon

for condor do^vn, and the old man had
nodded, to stand thoughtfully, hat in hand,
ofazino; out of the window with Salis.

A very sad case, Mr. Salis — a very sad
case. So young and innocent and sweet."

"Then there is no hope, sir?" said the
curate hoarsely.

Of her refraining: her strength, sir ?
Very little. But of her recovering sufficiently
to lead a gentle, resigned, patient life, yes.
You are a clergyman, sir. I need not preach
to you of duty. Ah, Mr. North, what about
the train ? "

'one moment, sir," said the doctor, interrupting
the whispered conversation he was
holding[ with the curate.

The next minute he had asked the great
surgeon a question, and received a short
decisive answer, which was communicated
to Salis.

'' But, my dear sir," he said, in remonstrance,
" I have brought you down here on
professional business. I am not a rich man,
but still not so poor that "

My dear Mr. Salis, I am a rich man,"

said the old surgeon, smiling, '* and partly
from my acquaintance with Dr. North,
partly from the pleasure it has given me to
meet your sweet sister, I feel so much interest
in her case that I must beg of you not to
spoil a pleasant friendly meeting by introducing
money matters. No, no ; don't be
proud, my dear sir. I possess certain knowledge.
Don't deprive me of the pleasure of
trying to benefit Miss Salis."

He's a fine old fellow as ever breathed,"
said North, returning to the Eectory, after
seeing the great surgeon to the station.

'* A true gentleman," said the curate sadly.
*' How can I ever repay him ? "

He told me — by helping your poor sister
to get well."

'* Ah ! " sighed the curate ; *' it is a terrible
blow."

'' Terrible," acquiesced North. " But she'll
bear it, sir, ten times better than I her sister
Leo would. By the way, I haven't seen
her."

'^ No ; I have just been asking about

her. The scene was too painful for her,
poor girl, and she went out so as to be
away."

"Oh ! " said North quietly ; and then to
himself : '' I can't bear that girl ! "

Just as he spoke he saw Leo Salis enter
the meadow gate after her walk, and soon
after she came into the room, looking perfectly
quiet and composed.

What does the London doctor say ? " she
asked, after shaking hands with North.

'don't ask, Leo," said the curate, with a
groan.

Poor Mary ! " said Leo, with a sigh, but
she did not seem stirred. There were no
tears in her eyes, and she might have been
making inquiry about the health of some
parishioner.

So North thought.

'•' I'll go up and sit with her now, Hartley,"
she said quickly, and turned to leave the
room, when Horace North's eyes became
fixed upon a white mark at the back of the
young girl's sleeve — a mark which looked

exactly as if her arm had been held by someone
wearing a well pipe-clayed glove.

The next moment the young girl, the dark
sleeve, and the white mark had passed from
Horace North's sight, and soon after from
his mind.

THE DOCTOR PRESCRIBES.

There, my dear, I shall give you up now,"
said North one day, about three months
after the accident. ** Ah ! you look bad ! "

Mary was downstairs, lying back in an
easy-chair, and she coloured slightly, and
there was a faint gathering of wrinkles
on her white forehead at his easy-going,
paternal way.

'* Yes," said Mary. *' Do advise him,
doctor. He is far from well."

'' Yes ; he's a bad colour," said North
bluffly.

Hadn't you better suggest that I should
be painted ? " said the curate tartly.

"Another bad sign," said North, with a

good-tempered look at Mary. "He talks
to his old friend in that way. Bile, Miss
Salis— bile."

"It's bother, not bile," cried the curate
sharply. " I beg your pardon, old fellow."

'granted. But what's the matter ? "

"Everything. I'm troubled about the
church matters. The squire is rector's
churchwarden, and somehow we don't get
on."

That's a wonder," said the doctor drily.

"Then, I'm in trouble with the rector."

"Why, what's he got to say for himself?
He's nearly always in London, so as to be
within reach of his club. It isn't time for
him to come down and give us another of
his sermons, is it ? "

No. It isn't about that."

"What then?"

"Oh! nothing."

Come, out with it ! "

The curate glanced at Mary, who shook
her head slightly, but he went on.

"The fact is, old fellow. May takes
upon himself to write me most unpleasant,

insolent letters. He learns from some 
body that Leo hunts, and I
never hear the last of it."

** Humph! Why not put a stop to it,
and sell the mare ? "

The curate shook his head.

'' I don't like her," said the doctor. "She'll
be getting your sister into some fresh scrape."

Don't talk like that, man. She has done
mischief enough. What nonsense ! Leo can
do anything she likes with her now."

Glad to hear it ; and now I want to do
what I like with you."

"So you do," said the curate good-humouredly.


"Not quite. You're horribly snappish.
Sure sion of beinor a little out of order. I
shall prescribe for you."

Do," said Salis grimly, " and I'll take
the medicine and poison some one else
with it."

"No need; plenty of people are doing
that. Now, look here, you worry yourself
too much about everyday matters."

Nonsense ! "

*' It is quite true, Mr. North," said Mary,
smiling.

There, sir, yon hear. Then you don't
take enough exercise."

*' Indeed, but I do. I spend half my time
going about."

"Visiting the poor," cried the doctor.
Harassing yourself with other folks' troubles,
and listening to endless stories of worry."

Yes, Mr. North, quite true."

What nonsense, Mary ! " cried the curate
piteously. " I must do my duty."

'* Of course, my dear sir, so do it ; but
don't overdo it. Recipe "

''I won't take it," said the curate.

"Miss Salis here shall make you, sir.
Recipe : * One good cigar or two pipes of
bird's-eye per diem, and three hours to be
spent in gardening or fishing every day'"

Mary's eyes brightened in forgetfulness of
her own trouble as she rejoiced in the advice
given to her brother.

It's all rubbish, North. I've no time to
give to fishing or gardening. As to the
cigar, I might manage that."

"Pills no use without the draught," said
the doctor.

But you a doctor, and prescribe tobacco
a poison ! "

Does people good to poison them a little
when they're out of order."

"But May grumbles as it is, and is never
satisfied. What will he say if he hears of
my smoking, and pottering about with a
wishing-rod ? "

"Tell May to mind his points at whist
and leave us alone. There, I must be ofi".
Take my advice, too, about the mare. I
shall always hate her for the injury she did to
poor Miss Salis here. Good-bye, both of you."

Stop a minute," said the curate. " What
about yourself ? "

Well, what about myself ? "

The great idea — the crotchet — the
cr

Well, say it — the craze, man I Every
inventor is considered a lunatic till his
invention works. Wait, my dear fellow —
wait. I may astonish you yet. Good-bye,
Miss Salis."

He shook hands, and left the Rectory
parlour with Salis, the saddle creaking loudly
as he mounted and then rode away.

Good fellow, Horace," sighed the curate,
but only fit for a West End practice, among
people with plenty of time and money. I
fancy myself smoking on the river bank,
throwing flies and pitching in ground bait.
It's absurd ! "

Poor Miss Salis ! " said Mary to herself,
as she repeated the doctor's sympathetic, pitying
words ; and it was forced upon her more
and more plainly in what light he regarded
her. She was his patient — nothing more.
No ; this was unjust, for he always treated
her most warmly — as a friend — almost as a
sister.

But her old hopes and aspirations seemed
to be dead for ever, without promise of revival.

At that moment the curate returned.

^' Poor Leo ! he said. " I could not do
that," as he again thought of how attached
she had become to the mare, and how the
handsome little creature had seemed to divert
her attention from the past.

'' It would not do, Mary," he said aloud.
Poor girl ! I seem to have been very hard
upon her about Tom Codfish, and it would
be too bad to deprive her of the mare."

** She appears very fond of it," said Mary
gravely.

And the more fond she gets of it the less
she thinks about anything else, eh ? "

Mary was silent.

She never mentions him to you now ? "

'^No, Hartley."

Hah ! That's a good job. It was hardwork
and painful ; but I nipped that in the
bud."

Mary was silent, and looked at her brother
uneasily.

"Well, what is it, dear ? Not comfortable
? "

"Yes, Hartley, I am quite comfortable,"
said Mary, smiling sadly.

'' But you looked at me in a peculiar way.
You don't believe that Leo thinks about him
now ? "

** I don't know. Hartley. I am not sure."

Oh ! but I am. It's all right, my dear.

The girl's ideas are quite changed now, and
I am beginning to be hopeful that she thinks
a little of North. Why, my dear Mary, how
ghastly pale you do look to-day. Are you
worse ? "

''No, no, dear; indeed no. I — I fancy I
am getting better."

That's right ; but I am trespassing on
you by talking too much. How thoughtless
man can be ! "

'rand how thoughtful," said Mary, as she
took his hand in hers, and held it to her
cheek. ''* Don't reproach yourself, Hartley ;
you give me pain."

The curate bent down and kissed her,
and she leaned back and closed her eyes, so
that her brother should not see how they
were suffused with tears.

Patience," she said softly ; *' give me
patience to be unselfish, and bear my bitter
lot."

JONADAB MOPvEDOCK SEES A GHOST.

MoREDOCK was better by the next Saturday,
and he got up with the intention of having
a good long day at the church.

Must keep friends with the doctor," he
muttered. " Can't afford to die yet. So
much to do first."

He looked up at his clock, and the clock's
sallow round face looked down at him,
pointing out how time was getting on, and
kept on its monotonous chile coach, as the
old pendulum swung from side to side.

Morning', old Forelock," cried a cheery
rustic voice, and a rough, fair, curly head
was thrust in at the doorway, the owner of
the body keeping it carefully outside, as he

VOL. I. I

held in at arm's length an old patched boot,
which had evidently been soaked in water
to allow for a series of great stitches to be
put into the upper leather.

For the moment it seemed as if Forelock
was some grim old idol, carved in yellowish-brown
wood, as he sat in his chair in the
middle of his sanctuary, and the new comer
was an idolater, bringing him a peace offering
; but the idea died away as the old man
snarled out :

'^ Morning', young Chegg. So you've brought
it at last''

At last ! Well, I haven't had it so very
long. Sixpence."

Sixpence ! What, for sewing up that
crack ? "

Yes, and cheap, too. Why, I'd ha'
charged parson a shilling. How are you ? "

'' How am I ? Ah ! that's it, is it ? That's
what you've come for. Not dead yet, Joe
Chegg, and they don't want another clerk
and saxton for the old church."

"Nay "

Hold your tongue when I'm speaking.

Think I don't know you. Want to step in
my shoes, do you ? Want to marry my
grandchild Dally, do you ? Well, you're not
going to while I'm alive, and I'm going to
live another ten year."

'' That's all right," said the young man,
rubbing his face with a hard hand, much
tanned, and coated with wax. '^ I don't want
you to die."

Yes, you do," cried the old man fiercely.
*' I see you looking me up and down, and
taking my measure. Think you're going to
dig my grave, do you ? Well, you're not
going to these ten years to come ; and perhaps
I shall dig yours first, Joe Chegg ; perhaps
I shall dig yours."

It was a cool morning, in the hunting
season, but the young man perspired, and
shifted uneasily from foot to foot.

Oh ! I don't know, Mr. Forelock, sir,"
he muttered awkwardly.

Then I do," cried the old sexton, dragging
his hand out of his trousers' pocket.
There's a fourpenny piece. Quite enough
for your job, and I tell you now as I mean

I 2

to tell you ten year hence, you ain't going
to be saxton o' Took's Hampton while Jonas
Moreclock's alive, so be off."

^* I don't want nothing but what's friendly
like, Mr. Forelock, sir. I thought as when
voa was out o' sorts I mis^ht be a kind o'
deity like, to ring the bells for you, and dig
a grave for you."

"Ah!" shouted the old man, 'that's it
that's what Parson Salis calls showing
the cloven hoof. You said it, and you can't
take it back. You'd like to dig a grave forme."


I meant to put some one else in," said
the young man, staring.

'*No, you didn't; you meant to put mein;
but I'll live to spite you. I'll ring my
own bells, and say my own amens and
'spouses, and dig my own graves ; and if
you marry Dally Watlock, not a penny does
she have o' my money, and Til burn the
cottage down."

The young man wiped his forehead and
backed slowly towards the door, just inside
which he had been standing during the latter

part of the interview, and as soon as lie was
outside he hurried away.

Not going to die yet," muttered the old
man. "I can't and won't die yet. I'll let
'em see. Doctor said a man's no business to
die till he's quite wore out, and I'm not wore
out yet — nothing like. I'll show 'em. Only
wish somebody would die, and I'd show 'em.
Give up, indeed ! "

A sharp fit of coughing interrupted the
old man, and left him so exhausted that he
took his seat and leaned back, staring at the
fire, and only moving at times to put on a
lump of coal, till towards evening, when he
rose and made himself some tea. Then,
putting a piece of candle loose in his pocket,
with happy indifference to the fact that it
was not wax, he took a box of matches from
the mantelpiece and thrust them in with the
candle, as he believed, felt in another pocket
for his key, and trudged ofi" to the church
to put things in order for the next day's
service.

Forelock reached the old loch gate in
the dark autumnal evening, passed through,

and ascended the path, which looked like a
cutting in the churchyard, six hundred years
of interments having raised the ground till
it formed a bank, while the church itself
seemed to have become sunken.

Half-way up he struck off along a narrower
path which curved round to the old iron-studded
door in the tower, a door whose
hinges resembled Norse runes, so twisted and
twined was the iron work.

The heavy old key was inserted, turned,
and taken out, and as the door yielded to
pressure the key was inserted on the other
side. The next minute the door was closed
and locked, and Forelock stood in the old
tower, fumbling in the darkness for the horn
lantern which stood in a stone niche.

The lantern was found, opened, and the
piece of candle inserted in the socket. The
next thing was a search for the matches,
which, however, were not found, for they
were reposing on the rug in the sexton's
cottage.

And there he stood fumbling and muttering
for some minutes in the total darkness,

till, believing that the matches must have
been left behind, he uttered a loud grunt,
and prepared to do T\athout.

It was no great difficulty ; for, as he stood
in the basement of the old square tower,
with the five bells high above his head, and
the ropes hanging therefrom, he knew that
to his right ran the rickety old flight of
stairs leadiuD- to the different floors and the
leads of the tower ; on his left his tools
leaning against the stone wall, and the Q-reat
cupboard in which, in company with planks
and ropes, were sundry grisly-looking relics,
dug up from time to time, but never seen by
any one but himself; behind him was the
door by which he had entered, and facing
him the lancet-shaped little opening through
the tower wall, leading into the west end of
the church.

It was dark enough where he next stood,
for he was beneath the loft where the
school children and the singers sat on Sundays
; but in front of him, dimly seen by
the great east window being beyond it, and
looking like an uncouth, dwarf, one-legged

monster, was the massive stone font, round
which he passed slowly, and then walked
straight along the centre aisle towards the
tomb-encumbered chancel, cut off by its
antique oaken screen.

His steps were hushed by the matting,
and the darkness, in spite of the windows
on either side, was intense behind, though
above the old deal unpainted pews there
seemed to float a dim haze, as if from the
great east window, as he made his way towards
the door on the north side of the
chancel.

Forelock could have walked swiftly
along the church in the dark, and he had
often done so when he was younger. He
could recall the time, too, when he had
whistled softly as he went about dusting
cushions and rearranging hassocks and matting.
But now he had no breath left for
whistling, and he walked — almost shuffled —
along slowly towards the vestry, where he
had nothing to do but give the gown and
surplice a shake and hang them up again,
and refill the large water-bottle from Guilty's

jump, which drew water from a well in
remarkably close proximity to the churchyard.


The big pews shut him in right and left,
so that had he been visible to any one at a
distance, it would have seemed as if a head
and shoulders were gliding along the church ;
but there was no one to see him. All the
same, though, Forelock could see, and as
well as was possible he saw something which
made him stop short just half-way between
the font and the eagle lectern, to shade his
eyes and gaze towards the chancel.

He did not believe in ghosts. He had
been night and day in that old church too
many hundred times to be scared at anything
— at least so he thought. But perhaps
owing to the fact that he had been ill, he
was ready to be weak and nervous, and
hence it was that he stood as if sealed to
the spot, gazing at a dimly seen head, draped
in long folds like that of the lady on the
old mural slab on the south wall by the
door. It was gray and dim as that always
seemed in its recess, and as it glided along

the south aisle it disappeared behind a pillar,
all so dimly seen as to be next to invisible,
and then reappeared in front of the pulpit,
passed through the screen into the chancel,
where it was seen a trifle more plainly ;
and then, as the old man gazed, the draped
head grew for a moment more distinct, and
then seemed to melt into thin air.

THE sexton's fetch.

*why, Forelock, you are not going to tell
me that you believe in ghosts ? "

"No, doctor, for I don't; and I've been
in that church and the vaults sometimes all
night."

'' All night, eh ? What for, eh ? "

"That's my business, doctor. Perhaps I
was on the look out for body-snatches ; but
I've been there all night, and no ghosts never
troubled me."

*' And yet here you are, all shivering and
nervous — too ill to attend service this morning
; and you tell me you saw something in
the church last night."

"Ay, and so I did, doctor. I repose I

wounded away, I was took so bad ; and
must have laid there for hours before I got
up and crawled home ; and Parson Salis must
be in a fine taking this morning, for there's
nothing done in the church."

'* Oh ! never mind that, Forelock ; Mr.
Salis is sorry you are ill. He's a good fellow,
and he sent me on this morning. You're a
bit nervous and shaken at what you fancied
you saw. Come, Forelock, old man, I'm a
doctor, and you're a sexton, and we're too
much men of the world — we've seen and
known too much — to be afraid of ghosts,
eh?"

Ghosts ! Spirits ! I'm afraid of no ghosts,
doctor; but I see that thing o' Saturday
night."

Thought you saw it, old chap ! "

*nay, doctor, I saw it; and that's what
scares me."

*' Pooh ! You scared at something you
saw — a hollow turnip and a sheet ! A trick
played by some scamp in the village."

*' Trick played? Nay, doctor; there isn't
a lad in the village dare do it. I know 'em.

I aren't scared at the thing I saw. It's at
what it means."

"What it means! Then, what does it
mean ? "

** Notice to quit this here earthly habitation,
as parson calls it, doctor. That's what
it means."

'rubbish!"

Ah ! you say that to hide your bad
work, doctor, and because you know you
ain't done your duty by me."

Why, you ungrateful old humbug ! I've
done no end for you. Haven't I crone on
oiling your confounded old hinges for years
past, to keep you from dropping off, rusted
out ? "

Ah ! I don't say anything again that,
doctor ; but you've always thought me a
poor man, and you've treated me like a poor
man — exactly like. If you'd thought me
well off, and you could send me in a big
bill, you'd have had me in such condition
that I shouldn't have seen my fetch last
night."

'seen your grandmother, man."

'say, you mays laugh, doctor; but what
have you. told me over and over again ?
Forelock,' says you, ^ a healthy man's no
business to die till he's quite worn out.'
And ' What age will that be, doctor ? ' says I.
Oh ! at any age,' says you ; and here am
I, a hale, hearty man, only a little modern
ninety, and last night I see my fetch."

"But you're not a hale, hearty man,
Forelock."

"Tchah ! Thatcher talking about ? Why,
I'd 'bout made up my mind to be married
again."

You ? Married ? Why, even I don't think
of such a thing."

'' You ? No," said the old man, contemptuously.
" You're not half the man I've
been. My son's gal — Dally Watlock's 'fended
me, and if she don't mind she'll lose my bit
o' money."

'you take my advice, Forelock, and
don't marry."

Shan't leave you nothing, if I don't
marry, doctor," said the old man, with a
cunning leer ; *' and you needn't send in

no bills because you've found out I've got
a bit saved up."

Why, you wicked old ruffian, I suppose
you've scraped together a few pounds
by trafficking in old bones, and of what
you've robbed the church."

'^ Never you mind, doctor, how I got it, or
how much it is."

'' I don't ; but just you be wise, sir.
You're not going to marry again, and you're
going to leave your money to your grandchild."


'' Eh ? What — what ? Do you want to
marry her ? "

"No, I don't, Forelock ; but if you don't
behave yourself, hang me if I come and
doctor you any more. You may send over
to King's Hampton for Dr. Welly, or die
if you like : I won't try and save you."

No, no, no ; don't talk like that,
doctor — don't talk like that," whimpered
the old man; "just now, too, when I'm so
shook."

Then don't you talk about disinheriting
your poor grandchild. Come, hold up, More-dock

! I didn't mean it. There's nothing
much the matter."

'^ Ah 1 but there is, doctor. I saw my
fetch last night."

*' No, you did not. You were not strong
enough to go up to the church, and you
fancied you saw something."

*' I see it."

Well, suppose you did. Some one had
gone into the church to fetch a hymn-book,
or put in a new cushion."

Nobody couldn't, but me and parson, and
squire and you. I see it, and it was my
fetch."

** No, no, old fellow; you're mistaken*
You were in the dark, and your head weak."

I see it, and it was my fetch, doctor."

"Very well, then, Forelock, it was your
fetch ; but we won't let it fetch you for
some years to come. What do you say to
that ? "

Ah 1 now you're talking sensible, doctor,"
cried the old man, brightening up. " Look
here, doctor, you do what's right by me, and
let me have the best o' stuff — good physic

you know — and there isn't anything I won't
do for you. A skull, or a bone of any kind,
or a whole set, or "

There, that will do, Forelock. I'll do
my duty by you, and I don't want any
reward."

"No, you don't. You're a good fellow,
doctor ; and you do understand my complaint,
don't you ? "

Yes, thoroughly. There, sit back in
your chair, and keep quiet. Mr. Salis is
coming in to see you by-and-by."

'* Nay, nay, nay ! T don't want he. It
makes a man feel as if he's very bad when
parson comes to see him."

"Why, I'm sure he's a thoroughly good
friend to you, old fellow."

Oh ! yes, he's right enough ; but as soon
as ever he comes in this here room, he'll
begin talking: to me about what a sinner
I've been."

'swell, quite right, too."

Maybe, doctor, maybe," said the old man,
bursting into a loud cachinnation ; " but he
don't know everything, doctor, do he ? If

VOL. I. K

he did, he'd lay it on thicker ; and he
wouldn't be quite so friendly with you."

'' Come, come, Forelock," said the doctor,
laughing. " Suppose we leave professional
secrets alone, eh ? "

'^ Ay, ay, doctor, we will. I don't forget
what you've told me ; but do go and tell
parson I'm a deal better, and that he needn't
come."

Why ? A visit won't do you any harm."

Maybe not, doctor — perhaps not ; but as
soon as he comes he'll want to read me a
chapter and then pray over me ; and I'm
that soaked with it all, after these many
years, that I haven't room for no more."

But, Forelock "

'^ There, it's of no use for you to talk.
Think I don't know ! Why, I know more
chapters and bits of the service by heart
than half-a-dozen parsons'

'' Ah, well ! I'll send you a bottle of mixture
as soon as I get home, so sit up and
make yourself comfortable."

May I smoke my pipe, doctor ? "

•' Ob, yes, as long as you like, man. You're
not bad ; and take my advice : just you forget
all about your fetch, as you call it, and
don't go to the church any more in the
dark"

K 2

AFTER Church.

The doctor left the sexton's cottage, thinking
deeply on the way in which the brain is
affected by the weakness of the body.

** Poor old fellow ! " he muttered ; *' nearly
a hundred years old, and clinging to life
more tightly than ever. Believes he saw
something, of course. Not fit to go out
alone. But hell pull round, and perhaps
last for years. Wonderful constitution, but
also an exemplification of my pet theory.
Humph ! coming out of church. Well, I
must meet 'em, I suppose. Hallo I what's
going to happen ? Has Salis converted the
pair of reprobates ? Morning, Squire ; morning,
Mr. Candlish."

He shook hands — professionally, as he
called it — with the young squire and his
brother, who were just out of church, and
walked slowly on with them, discussing the
hunt, election matters, and the state of the
country.

Why don't you hunt more, doctor ? " said
the squire, a florid, fine-looking man, singularly
like his brother, but more athletic of
build.

'•' Want of time," said the doctor broods
'too many irons in the fire."

You work too hard. But look here —
don't be offended ; I've always a spare
mount or two when you are disposed for a
gallop."

'' Thanks ; Til ask one of these days —
which never come," the doctor added to himself.
"And now, good-day."

No, no ; come on, and have a bit of
dinner with us — early dinner to-day."

Thanks — no ; I've a patient or two to
see, and I want a word with the parson."

"We don't," said the squire; " eh, Tom ?
Were had ours."

Tom Candlish scowled.

AVell, always glad to see you, doctor —
non-professionally," said the squire ; and they
went on, while North turned back to. meet
Salis, wondering why Tom Candlish had condescended
to come to church.

'' To stare at Leo, I'll be sworn, and Salis
must have felt it. I'll be bound to say he
made a dozen mistakes in the service this
morning through that fellow coming. And,
as for the squire — that young man drinks,
and he had better look out, or Forelock will
have a grand funeral to attend."

** Good morning, doctor. Were you coming
to see me ? "

Ah, Mrs. Berens ! I beg your pardon ;
I didn't see you."

"No, doctor, you never do seem to seeme.
You forget your most anxious patients,"
said the lady pathetically.

"But, really, you did not send me word."

"No, I did not send you word. I lived in
hope of your coming."

Thank goodness ! " thought the doctor.
"This woman is growing; dangerous."

His pious ejaculation was consequent upon
the fact that his friend, the curate, was approaching
in company with Leo.

Mrs. Berens became aware of the fact at
the same time, and though she uttered no
pious ejaculation, she was equally pleased, for
two reasons.

The first was that through the past two
hours she had been seated in the same building
with Leo Salis ; the pews were high, and
Leo could only have seen the top of her
bonnet, whereas the handsome widow did not
go to great expense for the most fashionable
modes et robes, as the dressmakers
express it, for nothing. The most elegant
head-gear, though it may aiSbrd some satisfaction
to the wearer, is hardly worth wearing
it be envied by those of the one sex and
admired by the other. This encounter with
the doctor would give handsome Leo a good
opportunity for envious glances, and as Mrs.
Berens could not rival her neighbour in
contour, she would have some chance of
standing upon an equal footing.

The other reason was that she wished the

curate to come up and speak to her at the
same time as she was talking to the doctor.
For Mrs. Berens was not deeply in love ;
she only wished to be. The doctor and the
curate were both fine, manly fellows, to
either of whom she would have been willing
to give herself and fortune ; but somehow
they had both been terribly unimpressionable,
and though she had shown as plainly as she
dared, any time during the past year, the
tenderness waiting to burst forth, she was
still Mrs. Berens, and twelve months older.

Here was an opportunity of playing one
off against the other ; for men could often bestirred,
she knew, into learning the value of
something when they saw that it was gliding
from their grasp.

The couple from the Rectory came up, and
Mrs. Berens felt a pang as, after her warm
salutations, in which her hand had rested in
that of the curate for a few moments, to
receive nothing; more than a frank, friendly
pressure, she saw that of Leo Salis rest in the
doctor's longer than she considered prudent.
Leo seemed unusually handsome, too, that

morning:. There was a bright flush on her
cheeks ; her eyes sparkled, and she looked
twenty, while Mrs. Berens felt that she looked
nearly forty.

Salis was glad of the encounter, for it
was true that he had been making mistakes
that morning. The very fact that Tom Candles
was in the church was disturbing, and
when he knew that he must have come — he
could not believe otherwise — expressly to
stare at Leo, the presence of the man whom he
had thrashed in so clerical a way acted on
his thoughts as a pointsman acts over trains
at a busy junction — sent them flying in different
directions beyond the drivers' control.

The curate's colour was heightened, for lie
knew that he had appeared at a disadvantage
before the more thoughtful of his congregation.
He was anxious, too, about Leo, who
looked excited, and he dreaded any renewal
of the past trouble ; so that the encounter
was satisfactory, if only from the fact that
it afforded temporary relief from worrying
thoughts and cares.

Mrs. Berens was sweetness itself to all.

and Leo seemed to rouse herself to be
pleasant to the doctor, the result being that
Mrs. Berens was seen home — to part most
affectionately from Leo, and with most
tenderly friendly pressures of the hand to
the gentlemen ; after which she hurried
into her room, to tear off her new bonnet
and indulge in a passionate burst of
sobbing.

'^ She's as deceitful as she is young," she
cried. 'she has thrown over Tom Candles,
and now she is winning over that
foolish doctor ; while Hartley Salis is as
immovable as a stone.

*' I'll be even with her," she cried. " Either
Tom Candlish or the squire would be glad
to marry me. I'll have one of them, and
I'll make her half die with envy by asking
her to my house, and — yes, there they go,
and Horace North is going into the house
with them. Ugh ! the monster I He deserves
to have the doorstep sink beneath
his feet. But I'll be revenged. No, no, no I
they're too bad," she sobbed * " but I couldn't
stoop to that."

Mrs. Berens subsided into an easy-clair,
to go on reddening her eyes ; while the
doctor accompanied his friends to the
Eectory, and stopped chatting for a few
minutes, but refused another invitation to
dine even when Mary Salis and Leo both
added their persuasions.

''Xo/' he said, " I've promised old More-dock
his dose, and I'm o'oino* to see that he

(^ CD

has it." And then, after a few kindly words
to Mary concerning her health — words that
were almost tender, but which seemed to
burn and sear the poor girl, as she read them
aright — he went away, to hurry to his surgery
in the Manor House.

'' I'm very glad, for poor old Hartley's
sake, that the affair's all off. It is, evidently
; for Madam Leo seemed as cool as
could be, and she's as handsome and ladylike
a cfirl as a man need wash to call wife.
Humph ! I'U give him a little chloral — justa
suspicion — to calm him down. Poor old
boy ! and he thinks he's going to die. Yell,
it's my theory," he continued, as he compounded
the sexton's mixture and carefully

corked it up ; " and, think about it from
whichever joint I may, it seems to be quite
right. There, Master Forelock, there's
your dose. That will lay any ghost in the
United Kingdom, given sufficiently strong ! "

HOW HORACE North DID NOT GO TO THE

MEET.

What a morning for a run with the
hounds ! " said Horace North, as he stood at
the door of the fine old Manor House, where
he had come to cool himself, after a scene
with Mrs. Milt, his housekeeper, owing to a
committee of ways and means.

Mrs. Milt had wanted to have everything
her way. The doctor had shown a desire
to have everything his way, and the approach
of the two forces had resulted in an explosion.


'•' Candlish offered me a mount, and I've a
good mind to take the offer, just for once. A
good gallop would do me a world of good.

No ; I'll go and have a chat with old More-dock,
see Mrs. Berens, Biddy Tallis, and
Brown's baby, and then settle down to a
good, quiet study. Hah ! "

Horace iSlorth was dubious. A slight puff
upon his vane would have sent it in either
direction, and it seemed as if the decisive
puff came just then in the shape of something*
as light as air. For there was the
sound of hoofs ; and directly after, looking
exceedingly handsome in her tightly-fitting
riding-habit and natty hat, Leo Salis passed
on her pretty mare.

She caught sight of him, and returned
a coquettish nod and smile to his low bow,
but did not draw rein, though she must
have seen his intention to hurry down to the
gate ; cantering gently on, as charming a
specimen of early womanhood as ever rode
gracefully upon a well-bred mare.

By George ! that settles it," said the
doctor. " Where's the meet ? ''

He hurried in, snatched up the county
paper, and found that it was at Fir Tree Hill,
four miles beyond the Hall.

'the very thing," lie cried. 'Til just
get on my boots, and walk over to the Hall,
get my mount, and go on. Xo, I won't ;
I'll drive."

He rang the bell, and Mrs. Milt — a very
severe-looking, handsome, elderly lady — in
the whitest of caps, bibs, and tuckers, appeared
frowning, as if still charged with the
remaining clouds of the late storm.

"Tell Dick to put the horse in the
chaise."

Mrs. Milt tightened her lips, and made
parallel lines in her forehead, but did not
stir.

^Ye\\ ? " said the doctor.

"Well?" said Mrs. Milt.

Did you hear what I said ? "

imperfectly," said Mrs. Milt.

Then, why don't you do it ? And for
Heaven's sake, my dear Mrs. Milt, let's have
no more of this petty squabbling. Discharge
cook ; have a fresh house-maid ; paper and
clean up, and do whatever you please, but
don't bother me."

"It is not my wish to bother you,

Dr. North," said the lady austerely, and
with considerable emphasis on the word,
"bother."

"Very well, then, let's have peace. Such
a scene as we had this morning interferes
with my studies. Now, go and tell him
to put to the horse."

*^ Will you be good enough to tell me
how, Dr. North ? "

'^ What do you mean ? "

You sent your man in that chaise to
fetch some drugs from King's Hampton."

Hah ! so I did. He ought to be back
by now. Yes ; there are wheels."

'' The carrier," said Mrs. Milt.

Pish ! of course. Never mind, I'll walk.
There's something else coming," he said,
listening. " Yes ; that's the chaise. Go and
tell Dick not to take out the horse, but to
come round here."

*'He's coming round," said Mrs. Milt,
going to the window ; " and there's a gentleman
with him."

The doctor looked up hastily, and frowned,
as he caught sight of a dark, sleek-looking

personage, about to descend from the chaise ;
while, as Mrs. Milt went to open the door,
Horace North exclaimed to himself :

*now, why in the world is it that Nature
will set one against one's relations, and above
all against Cousin Thompson, for "

Ah ! my dear Horace, this was very
good and thoughtful of you," exclaimed the
object of his thoughts, entering the room with
extended hands.

*'Ah! Thompson, glad to see you," said
the doctor, innocently enough — for the lie
was from habit, not intentional — 'but you
are not cyanide of potassium ! "

Sure I'm not, indeed ; but I want to
consult you."

I sent in my man for a portion of that
unpleasant chemical ; not to meet you."

*' Well, it doesn't matter, my dear boy. I
was coming down, and I saw your chaise ;
and I know you like me to make myself at
home, so give me some breakfast."

Yes, of course. Eun down this morning ? "

Yes, by the six-thirty from Haddington.
Early bird gets the first pick, you know."

VOL. I. L

*' There goes my gallop," groaned the
doctor, as a mental vision of Leo Salis appeared
before him, while he rang the bell.

Not ill, are you ? Come to consult
me ? "

'^No, I'm not ill; but I have come to consult
you, my dear Horace."

'' Did you minor sir ? "

Yes, Mrs. Milt ; my cousin would like
some breakfast."

I am getting it ready, sir ; but it can't
be done in two minutes and a half."

•'' No, no, of course not, Mrs. Milt. Thank
you. Send word when it's ready."

I'll bring word myself, sir," said Mrs.
Milt austerely.

No, don't trouble, my dear Mrs. Milt,"
said Cousin Thompson, who looked so sleek in
skin and black cloth that he shone ; " a cup
of coffee and a sole, cutlet — anything."

Sole ! cutlet ! My dear fellow, this
isn't London. Give him some ham and
eggs, Mrs. Milt," said the doctor. "Now,
old fellow," he continued, as the door closed
after the housekeeper a little more loudly

than was necessary, *' business : what's the
matter ? Liver ? "

"No, no, my dear Horace. I'm quite
well. To consult you about Mrs. Berens."

The doctor pushed back his chair.

'why, how surprised you look! You recommended
her to come to me about her
money affairs"'

Oh ! Ah ! Yes, of course ; so I did. She
asked me to give her the name of a London
solicitor, and so I gave her yours — my
cousin's''

It was very good of you, Horace, for I
am a poor man," said the visitor sleekly. " Far
be it from me to quarrel with L'ncle Richard's
apportionment of his money, but "

There, for goodness' sake, don't brings
up again ! You know why the old man
excluded you."

"Yes. I had the misfortune to offend
him, Horace," said the visitor with a sigh.

And now what about Mrs. Berens ? "

Ah, yes ; a very simple matter. You area
great friend of hers ? "

*•' I am her doctor."

L 2

*' Yes, yes," said the other, with an unpleasant
chuckle, which made North long to
kick him ; " but if report is true, you are
going to marry the handsome widow."

*then report is not true," said North
angrily. " Now to business."

'* Well, the fact is this," said the visitor;
'• in my capacity of confidential solicitor to
several people, I often have to give advice,
and to raise money."

''No doubt," said the doctor drily.

*' I have a client now who wants rather a
heavy sum upon the security of some leasehold
houses. Mrs. Berens has money lying
in the Three per Cents., and I thought that
you, as her friend, might advise her. She
would get six per cent, instead of three, and
a word from you "

'* Will never induce a lady patient of mine
to run any risks," said the doctor shortly.

Risks ? "

Breakfast's ready," said the doctor
abruptly, and he led the way into the other
room. Having sufficient wisdom not to
recommence the attack, Cousin Thompson

contented himself with breakfasting heartily,
but he was not pleasant over his feeding ;
and, what was more, he had a way of bringing
into every room he entered an odour of
mouldy parchment.

After breakfast Cousin Thompson had an
interview with Mrs. Berens ; and after that,
without consulting his cousin, he walked
across to the Hall to hold a meeting, not
unconnected with money matters, with Tom
Candlish. Had he consulted his cousin, he
would have known that in all probability
Tom Candlish had gone to the meet,
especially as he rarely missed a run.

Consequently, Cousin Thompson returned
to the doctor's, to find him chafing over his
disappointment. Not that he was a hunting
man ; but the whim had seized him to go,
and the appearance of Leo Salis had helped
to make the ride more attractive than it
might have appeared at another time.

'*Ah, Horace, my dear fellow," he said,
I shall have to trespass on your hospitality
for dinner, and then ask you to give me a
bed."

'' All right," said the doctor gruffly. '' Give
you a dose too, if you like."

Thanks, no, unless you mean wine."

*' Oh, yes, I'll give you a glass of port," said
the doctor. '' I hope you haven't persuaded
that poor woman to invest in anything
risky."

Now, my dear Horace, what do you take
me for ? " cried Cousin Thompson.

A lawyer."

But there are good lawyers and had
lawyers."

Well, from a legal point of view, you're
a bad lawyer. I never gave you but one
case to conduct for me, and that you lost."

The barrister lost it, my dear Horace.
Don't be afraid. I am not a legal pickpocket.
I might retaliate, and say you're a
bad doctor."

Well, so I am — horribly bad. The
amount of ignorance that exists in my brain,
sir, is truly frightful."

*but you go on curing people."

*' Trying to cure people, sir, you mean.
Wading about in deep water ; groping in

the darkness. Thank Heaven, sir, that you
vere not made a doctor. Eh, what is it —
some one ill ? " he cried, as Mrs. Milt entered
the room with a note.

"Poor somebody ! " said Cousin Thompson
to himself.

Note from the Rectory, sir."

'' Oh ! " ejaculated the doctor ; '^ shan't
be able to go, as you are here. AVants me
to play a game at chess. Salis, you know."

As he spoke he leisurely unfastened the
envelope, and began to read.

"Good heavens!" he exclaimed. 'mrs.
Milt, attend to my cousin as if I were here.
Very sorry. Serious case," he continued,
turning to his guest ; and the next minute
he had hurried from the house, to set off
almost at a run for the Rectory.

For Hartley Salis' note was very brief,
but none the less urgent, containing; as it
did these words :

For Heaven's sake, come on ! Leo has
had a serious fall." /

A Refractory PATIENT.

Leo made light of her accident, though her
shoulder was a good deal hurt, and she bore
the bandaging of what was a serious wrench
with the greatest fortitude. As North learned
by degrees, there had been a magnificent
run, but towards the last, when Leo was
almost heading the field, the mare had|become
unmanageable, and had rushed at a dangerous
jump, with the result that she fell,
threw her rider on the bank of the deep little
river, and, in her efforts to rise, entangled
herself with Leo's habit, and rolled with her
right into the water.

''A most providential escape," said Salis,
who looked pale with anxiety.

AYhat nonsense, Hartley ! " said the
girl ; " a bit of a bruise on the shoulder and
a wetting."

*' Yes, but you would have been drowned
if the gentlemen of the hunt had not galloped
up to your aid."

But they always do gallop up to a lady's
aid if her horse falls," said Leo, speaking
excitedly. "There, don't make so much of
it ; and it was utterly absurd, Hartley, for
you to send for a doctor for such a trifle."

"Trifle or no, Miss Salis' said the doctor,
"I should advise your seeking your bed at
once."

"Nonsense, Dr. North ! "

Well, then, I must insist," he said
firmly.

Oh, very well," said Leo ; " I suppose
you are master, so I have no more to say.
A little girl has had an accident, and so they
put her to bed. Fudge ! "

Leo, dear," said Mary, from her couch,
pray be advised. Dr. North would not
wish it if it were not necessary."

*' Certainly not," said North shortly, for

lie was annoyed at Leo's flippant manner,
and ready to wonder why lie had felt attracted
that morning'.

What nonsense, Mary ! " cried Leo.
'' Pray don't you interfere."

Mary sighed, and remained silent.
'* Well, as you please," said North. ^'' I
have given you good advice : act as you
think best."

He turned to go, but was followed into
the hall by the curate.

*' Gome into my room," said the latter,
with a pained and perplexed look in his
face. ^' This is very sad, old fellow."

'' What ? being guardian to a couple of
giddy girls 1 " said the doctor petulantly.
''No, no: I beg your pardon; don't take
any notice of my bitter way ; but really,
Salis, old boy, you had better have got rid
of that mare."

'eyes, I wish I had," said the curate sadly ;

"but Leo seems to take such pleasure in it —

and who could foresee such a mishap as this ? "

"I could," said the doctor shortly.

Good thing she was not killed."

'' You don't think the hurt serious ?

"Serious? Xo. Give her a good deal of
pain, of course."

'•'And the chill?"

What chill ? "

■' The plunge into the river after a heated
ride."

'•' She changed her things at once, of
course ? "

No," said the curate. " It seems that
out of bravado she insisted on mounting
again, and then rode slowly home. She was
shivering when she came in."

Why was I not told all this before ? "
said North sharply. '' Look here, Salis, old
fellow ; she must go to bed directly, and take
what I send her. Exercise your authority, or
she will have a very serious cold."

He hurried away, and did not send the
promised medicine, but took it himself,
leaving it with emphatic instructions as to
its being taken ; and the result was that
Leo Salis laughed at the supposed necessity,
as she termed it, and calmly declined to
follow out the doctor's views.

"l AM NOT ILL."

Hartley Salts did not tell the doctor the
whole of his trouble, neither did he say n
word to Mary upon the subject ; but she
divined the cause of his auger as she lay
helpless there, and sighed as she wished
that she could set matters right.

For Tom Candlish had ridden home with
Leo, and parted at the gate.

*« 1 might have known that they would
meet," said Salis, as he sat thinking; "but
I never imagined that he would have the
assumption to come again to the house."

But Tom Candlish had helped Leo when
she was in great peril of being drowned ; and
as the curate learned this he felt his impotence,

and was coldly courteous, while, on
his side, Tom Candlish was defiant, almost
to the point of insolence ; and his manner
to Leo seemed intimate enough to startle

o

Salis, and make him wonder whether they
had met since the scene at the river-side.

Hartley Salis soon had something to
divert his attention from this point, for the
next day Leo was not very well. She was
tired, she said. It had been a very long
run, but delightful all the same ; and she
allowed now that perhaps it would have
been better if she had listened to the doctor's
advice.

** I shall be quite well tomorrow," she cried.
Why, Hartley, how serious you look ! "

'•' Do IV he said, smiling, for he had been
communing with himself as to whether he
should ask Leo plainly if she had kept
her word.

'•' Do you ? Yes ! " she cried angrily ; and,
without apparent cause, she flashed out into
quite a fit of passion. '*' I declare it is
miserable now to be at home. It is like
living between two spies."

My dear Leo ! " began Salis.

I don't care : it is. Mary here watches
me as a cat does a mouse. You always
follow me about whenever I stir from home ;
and then you two compare notes, and plot
and plan together how to make my life a
burden."

'' Leo, dear," said Mary gently, '' you are
irritable and unwell, or you would not speak
like this."

*'I would. I am driven to it by my
miserable life at home. I am treated like a
prisoner."

*' Leo, my child," began Salis.

*' Yes, that's it — child ! You treat me as
if 1 were a child, and I will not beau it.
Anything more cruel it is impossible to
conceive."

Nonsense, dear," said Salis, smiling
gravely, as he took his sister's hand.

She snatched it away ; not so quickly,
thouofb, but that he had time to feel that
it was burning hot, as her scarlet cheeks
seemed to be, while her eyes were unusually
brilliant.

It was no time to question or reproach,
and the curate set himself to soothe.

Why, Leo, my dear," he said, smiling
shall begin to think you are cross."

"If you mean indignant," she retorted, " I
am. My very soul seems to revolt against
the stretched system of espionage you two
have established against me."

No, no, Leo, dear ! " said Mary. " How
can you say such things of Hartley, whose
every thought is for your crowd ? "

*good — good — o-ood ! " cried Leo: "I'm
sick of the very word ! Be good ! Be a
good girl ! Oh ! it's sickening ! "

Salis made a sion to Mary to be silent,
but Leo detected it.

There ! " she cried, with her eyes flashing.
" What did I say ? You two are always
plotting against me. Ah ! "

She shivered as from a sadden chill, and
drew her chair closer to the fire.

Do you feel unwell, dear ? " said Salis
anxiously.

*' No, no, xo ! I have told you both a
dozen times over that I am quite well. It

is a cold morning, and I shivered a little.
Is there anything extraordinary in that ? '^

I only felt anxious about you, dear."

"Then, pray don't feel anxious, but let
me be in peace."

She caught up a book, and tried to read ;
while, to avoid irritating her, Salis and Mary
resumed their tasks— the one writing, the
other busy over her needle ; and to both it
seemed as if they were performing penance,
so intense was the desire to keep on glancing
at Leo, while they felt the necessity for avoiding
all appearance of noticing her.

She held her book before her, and appeared
to be reading, but she did not follow
a line ; for the letters were blurred, and a
curious, dull, aching sensation racked her
from head to foot, rising, as it were, in waves
which swept through her brain, and made
it throb.

This, with its accompanying giddiness,
passed off, and with obstinate determination
she kept her place, and the pretence of reading
o- was carried on till towards evenings.

They had dined — a weary, comfortless

meal — at which Leo had taken her place,
and made an attempt to eat ; but it was
evident to the others that the food disgusted
her, and almost everything was sent untasted
away.

The irritability seemed to have died out,
but every attempt to draw her into conversation
failed ; and after a time the meal
progressed in silence, till they drew round
the fire at the end to resume their tasks,
almost without a word.

Salis was busy over a formal report of
the state of the parish for the rector. Mary
was hard at work stitching, to help a poor
widow who gained a precarious living by
needlework, and Leo still had her book before
her eyes.

Mary's were aching, and she was about
to ring for the lamp, for the short December
afternoon was closing in, and Salis was in
the act of wiping his pen, when Leo suddenly
let fall her book, to sit up rigidly,
staring wildly at them.

"Leo, my child!"

*' Well, what is it?" she said; and her

VOL. I.I M

voice sounded harsh and strange. " Why did
you say that ? You knew I should say yes."

** Yes, yes, of course, my dear ; but I did
not speak."

'• You did. You said I lied unto you,
quite aloud, and " — with a return of her
irritable way — *rare we never going to have
dinner ? "

Salis rose from the table where he had
been writing, and laid his hand upon his
sister's arm.

'* Leo, dear," he said anxiously ; and he
gazed in her wild eyes, which softened and
looked lovingly in his.

"No," she said, as she nestled to him and
laid her cheek upon his arm ; *' a bit of a
wrench. My shoulder aches, but it will soon
be well, dear."

Lie back in your chair," said Salis, as he
laid his hand upon her throbbing brow.

"Yes, that's nice," she said, smiling as
she obeyed. "So cool and refreshing — so
cool."

Do you feel drowsy ? Would you like
to have a nap ? "

Yes, if you wish it," she said. *' I am
sleepy. Don't tell them at home, dear."

Salis started, and his face grew convulsed,
as he exchanged glances with Mary, who read
his wish, wrote a few lines in pencil, and softly
rang the bell.

Take that at once," she whispered to
Dally Watlock, who entered, round eyed and
staring.

'' To Mr. Tom Candlish, miss ? "

"No, no, girl ; to Mr. North."

Mary drew her breath hard as the door
closed behind the girl, for she read in her
words a tale of deceit and also who had been
the messenger, perhaps, in many a love missive
sent on either side.

She tried to rise, feeling that this was a
time of urgent need ; but her eyes became
suffused with tears as she sank back helpless
in her seat.

'* Take my arm, Leo, dear," said Salis.
*you would be better if you went up to
your room and lay down."

"Yes, dear; if you wish it," she said
softly ; and she started up, but caught at

M 2

her brother, and clung to him as if she had
been seized by a sudden vertigo, and then
stared wildly round.

Salis gave Mary a nod, and then, drawing
Leo's arm through his, led her up to the
door of her room, which she entered while
he ran quickly down.

Quite delirious," he said quickly. " I
hope North will not be long. I thought he
would have been here this morning."

He was busy as he spoke preparing fora
task which he had performed twice daily
since Mary's convalescence. For, taking her
in his arms as easily as if she had been a
child, he bore her out of the room and upto
Leo's door.

As Mary, trembling with anxiety, pressed
it open, Leo uttered an angry cry, dashed
forward, and thrust the door back in her
face.

No, no ! " she said hoarsely ; " not you.
Let me be. Let me rest in peace."

'but Leo, dear, you are ill."

*' I am not ill," she cried fiercely. '' Go
away ! "

Don't irritate her," whispered Salis
gently. " Leo, dear, Mary will be in her
own room. Lie down now."

The phase of gentleness had passed, and
Leo turned upon him almost savagely, in
her furious contempt.

Lie down ! Lie down ! as if I were a
door 1 Oh ! there must be an end to this.
There must be an end to this."

She had partly opened the door so as to
speak to her brother, but now she closed it
loudly, and they heard her walking excitedly
to and fro.

WHAT DALLY WAS DOING.

"I Feared it," said North, as he returned
from the bedroom, where he had left Leo
with the servants, who stood staring helplessly
at her, and listening to her ravings
about the mare, the plunge into the cold
river, and the injured shoulder. "Vioknt
fever and delirium. Poor girl ! what could
we expect? Heated with her ride, the fall,
the sudden plunge into the water, and then a
long, slow ride in the drenched garments."

Do you think she is very ill ? " said Mary
anxiously.

'* Very ; but not dangerously, I hope.
There, trust to me, and I will do everything
I can. You must have a good nurse

at once. Those women are worse than useless,
ril send on my housekeeper."

*but you are not going?" cried Salis,
with the look of alarm so commonly directed
at a doctor.

"My dear boy — only to fetch medicine.
I'll not be long ; and mind this : she must
not leave her room now. She must be kept
there at any cost."

And I am so helpless, Hartley," whispered
Mary piteously. "It is so hard to
bear."

The curate bent down and kissed her,
and then, taking his place by the bedroom
door, he remained to carry out the instructions
he had received.

They were necessary, for he had not been
there five minutes before the delirious crirl
rose from her couch, and there was an angry
outcry on the part of the women. She insisted
upon going to the stable to see to her
mare. It was being neglected ; and it was
only by the exercise of force that she was
kept in the rooip.

Before half-an-hour had passed, the doctor

was back, and quiet, firm Mrs. Milt, who
put ofi" lier crotchety ways in the face of
this trouble, took her place by the bedside,
and with good effect ; for, partly soothed
by the old woman's firm management, and
partly by the strong opiate the doctor had
administered, Leo sank into a restless sleep,
in which she kept on muttering incoherently,
the only portions of her speech at all connected
being those dealing with her accident,
which seemed to her to be repeated
again and again.

It was towards ten o'clock, as the doctor
was returning by the short cut of the fields
to the Rectory, after having been home fora
short time, that he caught sight of a couple
of figures a short distance over the stile
leading down to the meadows, through
which the little river ran.

Humph ! " he muttered, as, in spite of
the darkness, he recognised the figures, his
own steps being hushed by the moist pasture,
and the couple too intent upon their conversation
to hear him pass.

Humph ! " he said ; " poor old More-dock

is right, perhaps, about the girl. Confounded
hard upon the people to have such
a scoundrel loose among them."

He half-hesitated, as if he felt that it was
his duty to interfere, but there was too
much earnest work at the Eectory for him
to speak at a time like this. And, besides,
he could not have explained why, but the
thought seemed to afford him something like
satisfaction, for it was evident that if Tom
Candlish had stooped to court pretty Dally
Watlock, the Eectory servant, everything
must have long been at an end between Leo
and the squire's brother, the thrashing administered
by Mr. Salis having been effectual
in its way.

He was extremely anxious, too, about
Leo ; for unconsciously a new interest was
awakening in him, and he felt that no casein
which he had been encrao-ed had ever
caused him more anxiety than this. So he
hurried on to his patient's room, where the
fever was growing more intense, and the
flushed face was rolled from side to side upon
the white pillow.

^^Just the same, sir," said Mrs. Milt, as
lie asked a few eager questions. " She's been
going on like that ever since you left. Isn't
she very bad ? Hark at her breath."

"Very bad, Milt," said the doctor gravely;
"and if matters go on like this 1 shall send
over to King's Hampton for "

"No, no ; don't you do that, sir," said the
old housekeeper sharply. "If you can't save
her no one can."

Why, Milt ! " exclaimed the doctor
wonderingly

Oh ! you needn't look like that, sir. I
know you. It's a deal of wherrit you give
me with your awkward ways and irregular
hours ; but I will say this for you, there isn't
a cleverer doctor going."

And yet you walked over to King's
Hampton to the other doctor when you
were ill."

'^ Well, you had put me out so just then,
and I felt as if I would sooner have died
than come to you."

Ugh ! you obstinate old thing," said
North. "There, I'm ooino^ down to talk to

"I

Mr. Salis for a while ; then I shall come and
take your place for six hours while you go
and lie down."

"Oh!" ejaculated Mrs. Milt; and she
tightened her lips and remained silent for a
few moments, while her master re-examined
his patient. Then, drawing herself up : ''I
may be obstinate, sir, but I think I know my
duty in a case of illness. Tm here to watch
by Miss Leo Salis's bedside, and here I'm
going to stay."

Mrs. Milt," said the doctor sternly, " the
first duty of a nurse is to obey instructions,
as you well know. Now, no more talking,
but sit down till I return."

Mrs. Milt looked tighter than ever, and
her rigid stay-bone gave a crack, but she
obeyed ; while the doctor went down to where
Salis and Mary where anxiously awaiting his
report.

*' I meant to have had some tea ready
for you," said Mary, after hearing what he
had to say; "but Dally is missing. She
must have o-one to her grandfather's cottage.


'r^

The doctor uttered a loud " Humph ! '* and
then remarked that he could wait.

He had to wait some time, as Dally had
gone to keep an appointment in the meadows,
and had come upon a figure leaning
against a great willow pollard on the river's
brink.

The figure started forward out of the darkness
and caught her arm, with the result that
Dally uttered a little affected squeal.

La, Mr. Candlish 1 how you made me
jump ! "

*' Why, what brings you here ? " he cried,
passing his arm round the girl's waist.

*' Now, do atone, sir ; you've no business
to touch me like that. What would Joe
Ch egg say ? "

That I was a wise man, and that it was
the prettiest little waist in Duke's Hampton."

Please keep your fine speeches for Miss
Leo, and talk about her waist, sir, and let
me go. I only come for a walk."

Nonsense ! tell me. You've got a message



"No, I haven't."

*' You — you have a letter ? "

"No," said Dally, shaking her head, and
struggling just a little for appearance' sake.

*ris she coming, then ?"

No, she isn't ; for she's too ill."

Eh ? Nonsense ! "

^' But indeed she is, sir, and confined to
her bed."

*' And she sent you, Dally. Oh ! how good
of her."

No, nor she didn't send me neither, Mr.
Candlish ; and do let go. You shouldn't."

Has she caught a cold. Dally ? "

Horrid bad one ; and she's gone right
ofi" her head."

** Gammon!"

She has, indeed, sir ; and me and cook
had to hold her down : she was so bad."

Hold her down ? "

"Yes; and she kept on talking in a
hurry like, all about the hunting and falling
in the water."

"Did she say anything about me?" said
Tom Candlish eagerly.

About you ? 1 should think not, indeed.

You men seem to think that ladies are
always thinking about you. Such stuff!"

Then a long amount of whispering took
place, Tom CaDcIlish being one of those
gentlemen who never fret after the absent,
but possess a sailor-like power of taking the
good the gods provide.

At the end of five minutes there was the
sound of a smart smack — not a kiss, but the
contact of a palm upon a cheek.

Then, from out the darkness came the
expression, "You saucy jade!" following
upon the rush of feet in flight.

A minute later the swiss crate leading
into the Eectory grounds was heard to clap
to, and Tom Candlish stopped in his pursuit
and walked home across the fields.

LEO MAKES A Confession.

'' Yes, doctor, Vm. better, and you needn't
come again."

"Yes, you're better, Forelock. Seen anymore
ghosts ? "

"Nay; I never see no ghosts. I only see
what I did see ; but how's young miss up
yonder ? "

Horace North's brow wrinkled, and his
voice sounded stern.

"Hi, Forelock — seriously ill. Violent
fever."

Fever — fever ! " said the old man, backing
away with unwonted excitement.

Yes, fever, you selfish old rascal ! " cried
the doctor irascibly. "You oughtn't to be

afraid of catching a fever at your time of
life."

"But I am, doctor — I am," said the old
man, with a peculiar change in his voice.
'you see, Fve just been ill, and it would
be very hard to be ill again. Is — is it
fetching ? "

'' No ! " roared the doctor angrily ; ** not
at all. There, take care of yourself, and
don't go to the church again in the dark."

''I shall go to the church as often as I
like and when I like'' grumbled the old man.
It's my church ; but, I say, doctor, is it
likely to be — eh ? — you know — job for mew

North looked at him with an expression of
horror and loathing that made the old man
stare.

Why, you hideous old ghoul 1 " he cried ;
do you want me to strangle you ? Ugh ! "

He hurried out of the cottage, and More-dock
rose slowly and followed him as far as
the door.

'' What's he mean by that ? Good ?
What's a good ? He's been drinking. I
see his hand shake : that's what's the

matter with him ; and I'm glad he hasn't
got to mix no physic for me this morning.
Now, I wonder what he takes. Them
doctors goes into their sudgeries, and mixes
themselves drops as makes 'em on directly.
Old Boston used to, and I buried him. He's
making a bad job of it up at the Rectory,
and he's drinking, but I put him out by
speaking of it. Ay, there he goes in at the
Rectory gate. Wonder whether they'll have
a tomb for her, or a plain grave."

Leo Salis had looked for some hours past
as if one or the other would be necessary,
and Forelock's words had seemed to North
as if each bore a sting.

So bad was the patient that when he
reached the Rectory that day he decided to
stay.

I'd say, send for other advice directly,
Salis, ' he said drearily ; " but if you had the
heads of the profession here, they could do
nothing but wait. The fever will run its
course. We can do nothiucr but watch."

** And pray," said Salis sternly.

And pray," said the doctor, repeating

VOL. I. N

his words. ** Will you send over to the
town, and telegraph ? "

''No," replied the curate. " I have confidence
in you, North."

He said no more, but turned into his
study to hide his emotion, while North
crossed to where poor helpless Mary lay
back in her chair, looking white and ten
years older as her eyes sought his, dumbly
asking for comfort.

He took her hand, and kissed it, retaining
it in his for a few minutes, as he stood talking
to her, trying to instil hope, and little thinking
of the agony he caused.

'' I'll go to her now," he said. " There j
try and be hopeful and help me to cheer up
poor Hartley. He wants comfort badly.
I'll come and tell you myself if there is any
change."

*' The truth," said Mary faintly.
*the truth? Yes: to you," he said meaningly
; and his words seemed to convey that
she was so old in suffering that she could
bear to be told anything, though perhaps it
might be withheld from her brother.

Mrs. Milt, who had been an untiring-watcher
by the sick-bed, made her report —
one that she had had to repeat again and
aorain — of restless muttering and delirium :
otherwise no change.

No, ]airs. Milt, we have not reached the
climax yet," said North, sighing.

'' There, go and lie down, my good soul,"
he added after a short examination; 'you
must be tired out."

'* Tired, but not tired out, sir," said the
old lady. "Poor child! she has something
on her mind, too, which frets her."

Indeed ! " said North.

'eyes," continued Mrs. Milt, in a whisper.
She keeps muttering about telling him
something — confession she calls it sometimes."


Some old trouble come up into her
brain," said the doctor ; and he sat down by
the bedside, to gaze at Leo's flushed face as
she lay there with her eyes half closed,
apparently sleeping heavily now.

'not yet, not yet," sighed North, as he
took the hot, dry hand in his, and a shiver

N 2

ran through him as he thought of the old
sexton's words, and wondered whether he
would be able to save her — so 3^oung and
beautiful — from so sad a fate.

Poor child ! " he said, half aloud ; and
then he sat on, hour after hour, wondering
whether it would be possible to do more ;
whether he had done everything that medical
skill could devise ; and finally, as he
came to the conclusion that he had thoroughly
done his duty by his patient, his
heart sank, and he owned to himself that in
some instances he and the rest of the
disciples of the great profession were singularly
impotent, and merely attendants on
Nature's will.

Salis came up from time to time, to enter
the room softly, and mutely interrogate
his friend, and then go sadly back to his
study — where Mary sat with him — to give
her such news as he had to bear, and join
with her in watching and praying for the
wilful sister they both so dearly loved.

It was getting towards nine o'clock on the

gloomy, stormy winter's night when, after
softly replenishing the fire, as North was returning
to his place by the bed, he heard
a faint sicrh, and bending; down over his
patient, he found that her eyes were wide
open — not in a fixed, delirious stare, full of
excitement, but calm and subdued, while a
sweet smile passed into her expression as
his face neared hers.

Is that dreadful old woman there ?" she
whispered.

''No," he said, laying his hand upon her
forehead. "I am alone."

'' Then I will speak," she said, in a low,
passionate voice. " You have not known —
you have not believed it possible — but tell
me, I have been very ill ? "

"Yes," he said gently, "you have been
ill ; but don't talk — try and rest."

*' I have been very ill, and I may die, and
then you would never know," she whispered
quickly. "It is no time, then, for a foolish,
girlish reserve. I may have been light and
frivolous — coquettish too — but beneath it

all I have loved you, and you alone. I do
love you with all my heart''

Two soft, white arms were thrown about
Horace North's neck, to draw him closer to
his patient's gently heaving breast.

WAS IT DELIRIUM?

Leo, my child, think what you are saying,"
cried North.

I do think. I have lain here and thought
for hours. I am not ashamed to confess it.
Why should I be?"

She looked up at him inquiringly; while
he for the moment felt giddy with emotion,
but recovered himself directly.

She is delirious, poor child," he said to
himself; and he tried to remove the enhancing
arms from his neck.

No, no ; don't leave me," she said
softly. "Don't be angry with me for saying
this."

'* I am not angry, but you are weak.

You have been very ill, and you must not
be excited now."

No, I am not excited. I only feel happy
so happy. You are not angry ? "

Angry ? No," he said tenderly. '* There,
let me lay you back upon your pillow. Try
and sleep."

*' No. I do not wish to sleep. Only tell
me once again that you are not cross, and
then sit down by me, and let me hold your
hand."

"Poor girl!" muttered North, as he felt
the hands which had clasped his neck steal
down his arm softly and lingeringly, as if
they delighted in its strength and muscularity,
resting for a few moments upon his
wrist, and then grasping his hand tightly,
while their owner uttered a low sigh of
satisfaction.

He seated himself by the bedside, and
Leo said softly, as she lay gazing into his
eyes :

I feel so happy and restful now."

And as if you can sleep ? "

Sleep ? No. Let me lie and look at

you. Don't speak, I want to think. Shall
I die ? "

'die *? No ; you must get better now, and
grow strong, for Mary's sake and for Hartley's."

'rand for yours," said Leo softly, as she
smiled lovingly in his face. " I shall be your
wife if I live."

You shall live, and grow to be happy
with all who love you."

Yes," she said softly, " with all who love
me ; " and she closed her eyes.

'•' It is delirium, poor child," said North
to himself. " Good heavens ! am I such a
scoundrel as to think otherwise ? "

He sat back in his chair startled by the
thoughts which had surged up to his brain.
He was horrified. For, in spite of medical
teachings, of his thorough command over
himself, and of the fact that he had always
been one whose love was his profession, he
had found that he was strongly moved by
the words and acts of the beautiful girl who
had seemed to be laying bare the secrets of
her heart.

Delirium — delirium ! the workings of a

distempered brain," lie said to himself
fiercely. " Good heavens ! am I going to
be delirious too ? "

At that moment Leo opened her eyes
again, with a calm, soft light seeming to
burn therein, as she smiled in his face and
drew his hand more to her pillow so that
she could rest her cheek upon it, and once
more her eyes half closed ; but he knew
that she was gazing; at him still with the same
soft, loving look which, in spite of his self-control,
made his heart beat with a dull,
heavy throb.

I have so longed to tell you all this,"
she whispered ; '' but I never dared till
now. It has made me bitter, and distant,
and strange to you. I was angry with
myself for loving you ; and yet I could not
help it. You made me love you. I always
did — I always shall."

It is delirium," panted North. '^ I will
not listen to her. Pah ! it is absurd. Where
is my manliness — where are all my honourable
feelings ? " I can master such folly,
and I will."

He set his teeth, aud his face grew hard
and cold ; but all the same his pulses quickened,
and as he sat prisoned there, with
those soft, lustrous eyes gazing into his, he
found that he was dreaming of another life
in which his scientific researches would be
forgotten in the sweet, dreamy, sensuous
existence which would be his — enlaced in that
loving embrace, while those eyes gazed in
his as they were gazing now, and those curved
lips returned his kisses or murmured tenderly
as once more they whispered the secrets of
her breast.

It has been so long. I have been so ill ;
but I do not complain, for it has made me
free to speak to you as I speak now. No,
no ; don't take away your hand. Let merest
like that."

He was softly stealing away his hand, but
she clung to it the more tightly, and her
white teeth glistened between her ruby lips
in a smile that was half mocking:

He heaved a deep sigh, and resigned himself
to his position, while the new thoughts
which came surg:iDO' on in a flood began to

sweep everything before them. She had
been delirious, but there was no delirium
here. She loved him. This young and
beautiful girl, to whom for years he had
given no thought save as the sister of his
old friend, loved him passionately, and he
knew now the meaning of the ideas which
had troubled him for days — he must — he did
love her in return.

But he was not beaten yet. A flush rose
to his forehead and he set his teeth hard, ashe
recalled his position — the confidence reposed
in him as a medical man — a confidence
which he seemed to be abusing ; and drawing
his breath deeply, he resolved that he
would be man enough to resist this temptation
now Leo was weak and excited. She was
yielding to her impulse as she would not have
yielded had she been strong and well ; hence
he would be taking an unmanly advantage if
he trespassed upon her weakness now.

His course was open ; his mind clear. He
would be tender and kind to her now. After
she was well he could listen to her confessions
of love as a lover should ; and as the

thought expanded in his brain that he would
call this loving oriel wife, he wondered how it
was that he could have been so dull and
cold before — how it was that love should
have been shut from his mental vision as
by a veil ? And he sat gazing at his patient,
almost dazzled by the bright light which
seemed to be shed upon his future, till Hartley
softly entered the room.

Any change ? " he whispered.

North glanced at the bed, and his heart
beat fast. Leo was again sleeping uneasily,
and muttering in a low whisper. To an
ordinary observer there seemed to be
none, but to Horace North there was an
enormous change, and he asked himself
whether he should speak now or wait.

He could not speak then of the subject
nearest to his heart. He and Salis had
always been the most intimate of friends —
almost brothers — and they would be quite
brothers in the future ; but he could not
tell him then.

*' She seems calmer," he whispered. " She
was awake and talking a little while a^o."

^' What— lucidly— sensibly ? "

In spite of himself North could not help
a start as he turned and met his friend's eye,
while his words were slow and constrained
as he said, in a hesitating manner :

'eyes ; I think so. But she is very weak."
And the mental question insisted upon being
heard — Was she speaking sensibly, and as
one in the full possession of her senses ?

-North, old fellow, this is great news,"
cried the curate. " Heaven be thanked ! I
must go and tell Mary."

He was hurrying from the room, but
his friend caught his arm.

'' No, no ; not yet," he said hurriedly.
I would not raise her hopes too much."

*' Not when she is starving for the merest
crumb of comfort ? I must tell her."

Then be content to say I think she is a
trifle better," whispered North.

*' But the climax must have come and
gone ? "

I — I am not sure. The case is peculiar.
Do as I say, and give her the crumb of

comfort of which you spoke. To-morrow,
perhaps, I can speak more definitely."

Hartley Salis left the room, and North
once more bent over the bed. His heart
beat, his pulses throbbed, and the nerves in
his temples seemed to tingle, as he laid his
hand upon the burning brow, placed a finger
upon the wrist, where the pulse beat so
hard and pitifully, while, when he softly raised
one of the blue-veined eyelids and gazed at
the pupil, he drew back slowly, and shaded
the sick girl's face from the light.

It was growing late, the wind howled
mournfully about the house, and from time
to time there was a soft, patting noise at the
window, as of some one tapping the panes
with finger-tips. So high was the wind
without that the candle flames were at times
wafted to and fro.

Horace North had left the bedside, and
was standing with his foot upon the fender,
gazing down into the tiny glowing caverns
in the fire, where the cinders fell together
from time to time with a peculiar musical

sound — the sound that strikes a watchers
oar so strangely in the long hours of the
night.

His thoughts were wild, and a tempest
was resins: in his breast as furious as that
without. Love had made its first attack
upon a strong man, and the wound was
rankling. His brain was confused. He

a

was almost giddy with his new sensations,
astonished at the position in which he found
himself.

He had been keen enough man of the
world to understand Mrs. Berens' tender,
shrinking advances, and they had been to
him by turns a cause of annoyance and of
mirth. But this was a novel and an intense
delight. He could not have believed
that he could be so moved.

It was a hard fight, but the man of honour
won.

I am her brother's friend ; I am her
medical attendant," he mused; "and neither
by word nor look will I betray what passes
in my heart till she is well. Then I, too, will
lay bare the secret I shall hide."

And if she speaks to you again as she
spoke awhile ago — what then ? "

It was as if a soft voice had whispered
those words in his ear, and he shivered as he
asked himself, " What shall I say ? "

It is all madness," he cried fiercely —
'' utter madness. They were the outpourings
of her diseased brain. Am I o-rowin^
into an idiot ? Has much study of the
occult wonders of our life half turned my
brain ? '"'

He walked quickly to the bed, took up
the candle, and let its light fall upon the
flushed face for a few moments, a face looking
so beautifully attractive with its wealth
of rich hair tossed away over the white
pillow.

He set down the candle, and pressed his
hand softly once more upon her burning
brow, listening the while to the dull throbbing
of his heart.

'' Yes, Horace North," he said at last,
you, the much-praised would-be savant, areas
weak as the weakest of your sex, ready
to be flattered into a passion by the first

VOL. I.

sweet words which fall from a woman's lips.
You are strong in knowledge, you have
mastered endless difficulties, but you have
not mastered Horace North."

'* Fool — fool — fool ! " he whispered to himself,
after a pause ; " with all your study
to be so ready to rush to such a belief —
ready to forget the trust reposed in you by
a true man, by his sweet-minded sister, and,
as it were, by you, my poor helpless girl.
Spoken in your wild delirium, my child —
the emanations of a young girl's brain, of
one whose waking thoughts must, Nature
taught, be almost always of who is to be
your mate through life. Yau opened the
secret casket of your heart, my child, when
helpless and without control, and I have
gazed therein with prying eyes. But sleep
in peace ; they shall be secrets still. Yes,"
he added, once more, as he drew steadily
back — " delirium : she knows not what she
says."

A sigh from the sleeper made him pause,
and then a low, musical laugh rang out,
followed by a quick muttering.

Tien once more the low laugh was heard,
and the muttering; became louder — then
plainly heard, as if the speaker were in a
merry protesting mood.

'' You ask so much. Again ? Well, I will
confess. Yes, I do love you — with all my
poor weak heart ! "



A VENERABLE OLD MAN.

^' No, Moreclock, I am not going to find more
fault, and I am not going to complain to the
rector. If you had been a young man, with
chances of getting work elsewhere, I should
have had you discharged at once."

'' Ay, discharged at once," said the old
man, trying to bite his livid lip with one
very yellow old tooth, as he stood in the
vestry doorway, looking down at the curate.

'* But as you are a venerable old man "

*' Gently, Parson Salis ; a bit old, but not
venerable'' grumbled the sexton.

1 shall look over it, and not disturb

you for the short time you have to live upon
this earth. But ^"

"Now, don't go on like that, sir, and
don't get talking about little time on earth.
I may live a many years."

"I hope you will, Forelock," said the
curate, taking; out the ciojar-case he had
started at North's recommendation, and
carefully selecting a cigar before replacing
it ; '' and I hope you will bitterly repent.
If you had come to me and asked me I
woukl have given you a bottle of wine, but
for a trusted servant of the church to take

advantage of his position and steal "

*'On'y worried it, sir."
I say steal, Forelock. It was a wicked
theft," said Sails sternly. "The wine kept

here for sacramental purposes "

But it was only in the cupboard."
It was a wicked theft, sir."
"And it's poor sweet stuff; no more like
the drop o' port Squire Candlish give me
than treacle and water's like gin."

"You're a scoundrelly old reprobate,
Forelock."

"No, I ain't, parson. I'm a good old
sarvant o' the church. Here have I been

ill, as doctor '11 tell you, and I was took badin
the church o' Saturday, and you'd ha''
done the same, and took a drop o' the wine."

And you've been taken bad Saturday
after Saturday for months past, eh, sir ? "
said the curate sternly.

^' Been out of order for a long bit, sir,"
grumbled Forelock, shuffling from foot to
foot like a scolded schoolboy.

** You old scoundrel ! " said the curate,,
half rising from his seat in the dim vestry,
where the surplices and gowns, hung against
the old oak panels, seemed like a jury listening
to the sexton's impeachment. "You old
scoundrel ! " he said again, shaking the cigar
at him, as if it were a little staff. '' It's quite
a year since I began missing the wine, and
I would not — I could not — suspect you. Why,
I should as soon have thought that you would
rob the alms box."

The old man started, as if his guilty conscience
needed no accuser, for he had more
than once helped himself to a silver coin
from the box within the south door, telling
himself that the alms vere for the poor, and

that he was one of that extremely large fringe
of rags upon civilisation.

Well," continued the curate, " I shall
to some extent condone this very serious
offence, Forelock, for I cannot find it in
my heart to prosecute an old man of over
ninety ; so now go, and I sincerely hope that
you will repent."

Ay, I'll repent, parson ; but it wouldn't
ha' been much loss to ha' been turned out o'
being saxton. Nobody dies now, and no
one gets married. How's Miss Leo ? "

Getting quite strong again."

"That's a blessing, sir," grumbled the old
man, who in spirit abused the young girl
for defrauding him of certain fees. *' Health's
a blessing, sir."

*' Yes, Forelock, it is," said the curate,

rising.

''x\nd I thanks kindly, sir, for looking
over the wine, I do. You needn't lock it
up. I won't touch it again.'

"I shall not lock it up, Forelock. My
forgiveness is full. I shall trust you as if this
had never occurred."

Thanks, parson. That's handsome."

*but let me have no more complaints.
You must do your duty, as I try to domine."


'ray, parson, and I will," said the old
sexton, following his superior to the door
leading out to the churchyard, where Salis
stopped and took a box of vesta from his
socket, as he stood just outside the old stone
doorway, where a stone corbel with a demoniacal
expression of countenance seemed
to be leering by his shoulder as if in enjoyment
of what had taken place.

It was a sheltered corner for lii^htino^ a
cigar, and the curate, without pausing to
think, struck a match, and began to puff out
the smoke.

Well, I've no right to speak, as between
parson and saxon, sir ; but twin' old man
and young man, I do say — what would you
ha' said to me if you'd fetched me having a
pipe in the churchyard ? " .

*why, you old rascal, I've often seen
you smoking when you've been digging a
rave."

Not often, parson ; because one never
hardly gets a grave to dig. I have had a
pipe sometimes when my chest has felt a
bit weak."

I deserve your reproof, Forelock," said
the curate, putting out his cigar. " I have
taken to smoking so much that I find myself
li^htino- cio-ars at all times and seasons, and I
am greatly to blame here."

Xay, nay, I shan't say no more," said
the old man, calmly taking the place of reprover
instead of being reproved ; " but try
a pipe, parson. Worth a dozen cigars. Stop a
moment, sir, I wants another word with you."

Yes. What about ? "

"My grandchild, Dally, parson. I ain't
saddersfied there."

"Why, Forelock?"

"Because I don't think you looks after
her morals as you should. ' Send her to me,
Forelock,' you says, ' and me and the young-ladies
will take every care on her."

I did, Forelock ; and we have."

'•' Nay, you haven't, sir ; or else she
wouldn't oro on as she do."

What do you mean, man ? "

'along o' young Tom Candlish, squire's
brother, sir."

Is this true ? "

"True, sir? Course it is. Don't I say
so ? I've fetched 'em together over and over
again."

Tut — tut — tut ! this must be stopped,"
cried Salis angrily. 'did you speak to
him ? "

"Ay, I spoke to him."

What did he say ? "

Called I an old fool."

'but your grandchild. Did you speak
to her ? "

"Ay, course I did ; but you might as well
talk to yon cobble. She just laughed, and
give her pretty head a toss. She is a pretty
gal, parson."

Far too pretty, Forelock."

Oh ! I don't know 'bout that, sir. Think
young Tom wants to marry her ? I'll put
down a hundred pound the day she's wed."

You will, Forelock ? Why, I thought
you were very poor."

''So I am, parson, so I am; but I've saved
up for the gal. But you keep her in more ;
it'll make him more hungry after her, and
I'd like to see her mistress up at the Hall."

*' Forelock !" cried the curate, in horrible
perplexity.

'' Well, I should," said the old man, grinning.
'' squire's drinking himself to death as
fast as he can, and he won't marry ; so young
Tom's sure to get the place. But you keep
her in."

I will, Forelock," said the curate sternly,
and, in grave perplexity at the loose ideas of
morality existing in Duke's Hampton, he went
straight home, to find the doctor seated by
Mary's couch.

'^ SOMETHING PARTICULAR TO SAY."

Horace North had sternly determined on
self-repression, and, from the moment when
the crisis of Leo's fever had left her utterly
prostrate, he had set himself the almost
superhuman task of saving her from the
grave.

He had treated his patient with a gentleness
and care that gradually won upon her,
harsh and distant as she was by nature ; so
that at last, after the first fits of wearing fretfulness
were over, she began to greet him with
a welcoming smile, and seemed happier when
he sat down and stayed chatting to her by her
bed.

On that night when the passionate avowals

had been uttered she had sunk back into a
violent fit of delirium ; and since then, in all
his long hours of watching, no word of love
had passed her lips — no kindly look her eyes.

North was disappointed and touched to
the quick, for he watched for her loving looks,
listened for her tender words.

On the other hand, in his calmer moments
he was pleased, for it made his task the
lighter. He could repress himself until such
time as his patient were well and he could
honourably approach her to ask her to be
his wife.

He was not surprised at her petulance or
her irritability ; and even in her worst moods
he only smiled, as he thought of her past
sufferings and present weakness. This childlike
temper was the natural outcome of such
a fever, and would soon pass away.

It is better as it is," he said, and he
toiled away, neglecting his studies, his great
discovery, all for Leo's sake, that she might
live and grow strong once more.

How beautiful ! " he thought ; and as
she unconsciously suffered his attentions,.

receiving them as her right, as if she were a
queen, Mary drank in all, and read the
doctor's heart to the very deepest cell.

But she made no sign. It was her lot to
suffer, and she would bear all in silent
patience to the end, working to make others
happy if she could, but sorrowing the more,
as she wished well to North, and tried to
believe that, after all, Leo might change,
and worthily return his love.

For, after seeing her home, Tom Oandlish
sent twice to know how Leo was. After
that he seemed to take no further notice,
though he really spent his time in asking
Dally Watlock about her mistress, as he
called it — questions which took a long time
to ask and longer to gain replies.

Leo never mentioned his name, but lay
back reading, setting aside the book wearily
dien any one seemed disposed to converse,
and taking up the book again as soon as
whoever it was had done.

Salis entered the room where North was
seated conversing with Mary, whose pinched
face bore a slight colour as she listened to

his words, something he was saying being
interrupted by the brother's entrance.

Ah, here you are ! " cried North warmly.
'•' I have stayed to see you, for I have something
particular to say."

'that's right. At least, it is not bad
news, I hope."

I hope good," said the doctor warmly,
and then he stopped awkwardly.

It had all seemed so easy to say in his
own room. Here it was terrible.

Mary's heart began to flutter, and a
piteous look came into her eyes ; but she
closed them gently, and a tear slowly welled
throuo;li from each.

'well, what is it? Nothing fresh about
Tom Candlish, I hope ? "

"About him? No; nonsense! I wanted
to tell you that there is no further need forme
to attend your sister," said the doctor
clumsily. " She is nearly well now, and "

My dear Horace, you have saved her
life I "

No, no ; nonsense ! Only did as any
other medical man would have done."

'' I say she owes you lier life, and it will
be Leo's duty to remember that, and to
strive henceforth to render back to you "

*' If she only will ! " cried North excitedly,
as he sprang up and clasped his old friend's
hand.

For the ice was broken. He could speak
now and as Mary looked up through a mist
of blinding tears he seemed to her like the
hero she had always painted — as the man
whom some day she might love. But for her
love was dead.

'* Wh}^, Horace, old man, what do you
mean ? " cried Salis, as Mary fought down a
wail of agony which strove to escape her
lips.

What do I mean, Salis ? " cried the
doctor passionately ; '* why, that I love Leo
dearly, and I ask you to let me approach her,
and beg her to be my wife."

The curate sank into the nearest chair, and
sat gazing up at his friend.

'' Why, you don't seem I had hoped

Hartley, old fellow don't look at me

like that."

'' I am very sorry."

No, no ; don't speak in that way — so cold
and bitter."

'' Have you spoken to Leo — of your
love ? "

Not a word. On my honour."

A sigh escaped Mary.

'' You need not say your honour, Horace,
old fellow," said the curate sadly. '' I did
once hope this, but that time has gone by, and
I can only say again I am very sorry."

But why ?— why ? "

Because," said the curate slowly, '' Leo
is not the woman to make you a happy
husband."

*' Nonsense, my dear boy. I — I believe
she loves me."

The curate shook his head.

"Ah! well," cried the young doctor joyously
; 'ewe shall see. Tell me this : would
you accept me as your brother ? "

*'I already look upon you as a brother."

*' Then you will let me speak to Leo ? "

The curate paused a few moments, and
then in the gravest of tones said :

VOL. I, p

^' Yes."

"Now? At once?"

*' If you wish it," said Salis, after another
pause.

'then I will," said North. "I have
waited months, and borne agonies all
through her illness. Now I will be at
rest."

'' But "

Salis was too late, for hot, excited, and
strung up hard to the highest pitch of
excitement. North strode from the room,
while Salis stooped over Mary, and kissed
her.

I am very sorry," he repeated : and a
couple of loving arms closed round his neck,
as Mary sobbed gently upon his breast.

Then brother and sister sat talking, for
the drawing-room door had closed, and they
could hear the low, dull murmuring of the
doctor's voice.

He had entered the drawing-room, where,
looking extremely beautiful in her negligee
habit, and refined by illness, Leo lay upon
her couch by the fire, for the spring was

cold, and as he entered she lowered her book
and smiled.

It was a good augury, and with beating-heart
Horace North advanced and took her
hand — to ask this woman to be his wife.

p 2

DR. North PROPOSES.

As Horace North took the hand of Leo
Salis in his, it was to find it soft and cool
and moist — very different from the burning
palm he had so often held a few months
since. It was without a tremble, but it sent
a thrill through him ; and with eyes flashing
and revelling in his new joy, he was about
to speak, when she half threw herself back
in her chair with a movement of resignation
which came upon him like a douche.

He knew it so well. He read it and
understood it as plainly as if she had spoken.
It was the patient waiting for him to feel
her pulse.

I thought you had given me up," she
said lightly.

» "

** Given you up — you whom I love !

Those were the words he wanted to say,
but they would not come now after the
damping he had received, and involuntarily
his fingers glided slowly to her wrist, and
he held them pressed against the calmly-beating
pulse, gazing down at her half-averted
eyes the while.

There was no coquetry, no playful manner ;
she was as calm and resigned as any patient
he had ever visited, and yet, time back, she
had clung to him, gazed passionately into
his eyes, and whispered of her love.

Was it delirium ?

He could not bring himself to say ; but
even if it were, she must at heart have
loved him, and in her abnormal state have
confessed what she would sooner have died
than said when well.

The moments glided by, and he still held
her wrist in the most professional manner,
till, apparently surprised, she raised her
eyebrows, opened her languid eyes, and
looked up at him.

'swell, doctor," she said, half laughing,

loth to part with your patient ? I am quite
wel]/'

He was dumb. A whirlwind of emotion
was sweeping through him, as he vainly
sought to shape his course. Could he tell
her of her passionate avowal, or would it be
too cowardly to take advantage of her past
weakness ?

He could not recall that — not now. Some
day, perhaps, he might ; but now he felt that
he must approach her unarmed. She was
delirious, and her brain must be a blank to
all that had passed, and he would speak
plainly — conventionally.

'why, doctor," she said at last, half
wonderingly, *' of what are you thinking ? "

Thinking ? " he said hoarsely.

"Yes; you look so serious. Surely I am
not going to have a relapse ? '*

Oh, no ! " he cried.

"Then why do you look at me like
this ? "

She asked him the question so naively,
as she half lay back in her place, that a cold
chill came upon him again, and, letting her

band fall, he took a turn to the window and
back, half ready to sav nothing; then ; but
nerving himself once more, he took a chair,
drew it to the lounge, and, seating himself
again, took her hand.

Another inspection, doctor ? " she said,
half laughingly; and then, as she met his
eyes, she seemed to comprehend his meaning,
and tried to withdraw her hand, but he held
it tightly.

'' Do you know what I want to say to
you ? "' he said gravely.

'• What you wish to say ? "

'' Yes. There ! I cannot speak to you inset
terms, but do you think I could know
you as I have known, have watched by you,
and tended you through all this terrible illness,
with any other result ? Leo, I love
you ! Will you be my wife ? "

"Dr. North!"

Yes ; her mind must be a blank. There
was so much genuine surprise in her tone,
such a look of astonishment in her eyes, that
he knew it now without doubt, and his
emotion choked him for the moment, so

great was the disappointment and despair
her tone evoked.

You wonder at it, but wdiy should you ?
Listen to me, Leo "

No, no ; stop — stop ! You are too hasty.
Let me think."

She put her hands to her temples, and
looked at him half wonderingly, half amusedly,
but to him it seemed as if she were trying
to recall something, and he once more caught
Lier hand.

You will listen to me. You will give
me your promise, Leo — dear Leo ! You seem
to belong to me, for I have, as it were,
brought you back from the dead. Tell me
you will be my wife."

She gave him a quick, keen glance that
was as if full of horror and revolt, but he
could not interpret it, and drew her hand
towards his breast. Then, with a quick
movement, and a pitying look at the man
for whom she felt something approaching
gratitude :

"No, no," she exclaimed; *rit is impossible."


'' I have spoken hastily. I have taken
you by surprise," he cried. '' Only tell me
this : you do not hate me, Leo ? "

^'Hate you? Oh, no. Dr. North," she
cried. *' Have we not always been great
friends ? Have you not saved my life ? "

"Let me be more than friend," he exclaimed
; and a curious look came into her
eyes, as he went on pouring forth in almost
incoherent terms his love for her, the intense
longing she had inspired. He could not
interpret it — that it was full of mockery and
suppressed mirth, mingled with contempt.

"You do not speak," he said, at last.
Give me some hope."

What shall I say ? " she cried. " It is too
much to ask of me. You want me to promise."

Yes," he said ; " and I will wait patiently
for the fulfilment of that promise."

"But I have thought so little of such a
thing," she said calmly. " You have taken
me so by surprise. I cannot — oh, I cannot
promise."

But I may hope ? " he said.

"I cannot — I will not — promise," she said

firmly. '^I£ I marry it must be some one
who lias distinguished himself, who has
made himself a name among the great
people of the world. I hate this humdrum
life, and this dull existence in the country.
The man I loved should be one of whom his
fellow-men talked because he had become
great and done something of which I could
be proud. No, no, Dr. North ; you must
not ask me to promise this."

He sat gazing into her eyes, for her words
had struck a chord in his breast. They
seemed to rouse up in him the thoughts and
theories which had been set aside during
the months of her illness while she had been
his only care ; and with an eager burst of
fervid passion in his tones, he exclaimed :

If I distinguished myself in some way —
if I set men talking about my discoveries,
and made my name famous, would you listen
to me then ? "

The same mocking light was in her eye,
the same half-contemptuous smile played fora
moment about the corners of her lips, as
she said, in a low voice :

'■ Wait and see."

"Wait? I will wait," he cried eagerly;
'• aud you shall share my triumph. Leo,
you do not know, you cannot tell, what
thoughts I have — vrhat investigations I am
making; into a science which is full of
wonders waiting to be discovered. You
have roused once more in me the great
desire to win fame : to make researches that
shall benefit humanity for all time to come. I
can, I will, win these secrets from Nature, and
we will too-ether oo hand-in-hand, learning
more and more. I shall succeed ! " he cried
excitedly. " Ah ! you smile. You do give
me hope."

She did not speak, but veiled her eyes, to
hide the mocking light within them.

"My darling — my love ! " he exclaimed.

She drew back from his embrace.

"No, no," she said. " We are only
friends."

Yes, friends," he cried — " friends now."

Say no more," she continued. " I am
still weak, and this troubles me. Pray go
now."

Yes, I am going," he said eagerly, *' to
f]2;lit a hard fight. I. used to think of it as for
fame alone. Now it is for love — your love —
the love of the woman who first taught me
that I had a heart."

Raising the hand she surrendered, he
kissed it tenderly, and was about to speak
ag-ain, but he could not trust himself; and
giving her a look fall of love, trust, and devotion,
he hurried back to the study, where Salis
sat with Mary, waiting his return.

"Well?" said Salis, as Mary sat with
pinched lips, and eyes wild with emotion.

'^ Congratulate me, my dear boy ! " cried
North excitedly.

'' She has promised to be your wife ? "

No, no ; I am to wait and work. She
is quite right. It was assumption on my
part."

"Then she has refused you ?"

Oh, no ! She is quite right. She bids
me do something to make me worthy of her
love, and — ah ! Hartley, old fellow, I did not
know what life was before. There ! I am the
happiest fool on earth."

He turned to Mary, who was gazing at
bim with a look so full of pain that it would
have betrayed her secret at another time.
But just then the love madness was strong,
and its effect sufficient to blind North, who,
in his joy, raised Mary's hand and kissed it,
as he had kissed her sister's.

Mary shrank at the contact of his lips
with her soft, white hand ; and a look of
despair that she could not control shot from
her lustrous eyes.

North did not see it, but Hartley Salis
made a mental note thereof as the doctor
exclaimed, lauo-hino; :

'* There, good folks, let me go. Don't
laugh at me and be too hard when I am
gone."

Hard ! " said the curate sadly.

Well, I know Fm behaving like a lunatic.
I'm going away to study hard, and
work myself back into a state of sanity — if

In
can.

He nodded and left the house ; and, as

the door closed, Mary closed her eyes as

she sank back helplessly in her place.

Asleep, dear ? " said Hartley tenderly, a
few minutes later, and he had risen from
where he sat, with a dejected look upon his
face.

*^ No, Hartley ; only thinking," she said,
smiling sweetly in his face.

Thinking ? "

'^ Of Leo."

*rand so was I," he said sadly.

But Leo Salis was not thinking of brother
or sister. She was writing rapidly, with a
blotting-book held half open, and the book
she had been reading held in the same hand,
so that she could close the blotter instantly
and seem to be reading if any one came.

Leo's lips formed the words she wrote : —

It is ridiculous of you to have such
jealous thoughts. He has tended me patiently
as any other doctor would. I will tell you
more tomorrow night, but to-day I tell
you this : I think him very clever as a
doctor ; as an ordinary being I think him
an idiot. At the old time as nearly as I
can. Do be punctual this time, pray."

It was about five o'clock the next morning

that, after sitting up reading hard, and trying
to recover lost time, till half-past three,
North was plunged in a deep sleep, in which
he dreamed that Leo was smiling in his eyes,
and repeating the words she had uttered in
her delirium, when there was a heavy
drao^orino' at the niojht-bell.

'' "What is it ? " cried the doctor from his
window.

'• My young master, sir," cried the voice
of the butler from the Hall.

^' Taken ill?"

111, sir ? Oh, Heaven help us ! it's worse
than that ! "

TOM Candles PLAYS BADLY.

Squire Luke Candlish looked flushed
and angry, as he stood facing his brother in
the billiard-room, over the dining-room, at
the Hall. Dinner had been ended an hour,
and in company with his brother he had
partaken of enough wine for three ordinary
men, after which they had gone upstairs to
smoke and play two or three games.

Tom Candlish played horribly that night.
The strokes he made were vile ; and so
transparent were some of his blunders that
any one but Squire Luke would have seen
and asked what it meant.

Squire Luke only chuckled and smoked,
and spilled the cigar-ash over the green

cloth and played ; but played more vilely
than his brother, with the result that, in
spite of all his efforts, Tom won game after
game.

It was very awkward, for Tom had a
request to make, and unless he could get his
brother in a good temper, the request would
certainly be in vain.

He made misses and his brother scored
one each time. Then went straight into the
pocket without touching a ball ; and his
opponent scored three ; but directly afterwards,
when his turn came round, the balls
seemed as if they would make cannons and
winning and losing hazards, so that his
score kept rising, and Squire Luke raved.

Tom won every game, and his brother
grew more silent, till quite in despair at the
failure of his plan to put the squire in a
good temper, Tom blurted out his business.
He wanted a hundred pounds.

I should think you do want a hundred
pounds ! " said the squire coolly ; " say
two."

Two I " cried Tom merrily.

VOL. I. Q

'' Twopence 1 " cried his brother, driving
his ball off the table with a tremendous
clatter. *what for T'

Meet a couple of bills," said Tom, picking
up the ball. " No ! Your play again."

No business to accept them."

'' Couldn't help it, old fellow. Gome,
let's have a hundred."

'^ Not a stiver."

-Why?"

'' Because you've had your allowance for
the year, and fifty over."

Nonsense, old man ; I'm hard pushed,
and if I don't meet the bills, they'll be dishonoured."


'' Well, what of that ? " said Squire Luke
coolly, as he made a stroke.

What of it ! eh ? Why, the glorious
name of Candlish will be dragged in the

mire."

*' Bah ! " ejaculated the squire, playing

again.

"Why, Luke, that stroke was not emblematic,
was it, of your turning into a screw ? "
None of your hints. I put on no screw,

and I am no screw. Yon have your five
hundred a year to spend, and I keep you
besides."

Oil, yes : and keep me well ; but a man
can't always keep just inside a certain line."

You always keep outside a certain line,"
retorted the squire. "You have your five
hundred regularly."

'rand you have your five thousand
regularly," said Tom, who was beginning to
flush up.

'' Well, what of that ? "

Why, it isn't fair that you should have
all this big place and a large income, and I
nearly nothing."

"That's right," said the squire; "abuse
your father."

I don't abuse my father ! " retorted
Tom hotly ; '' but I say it was an infernal
shame ! "

He knew what a blackguard you are,
Tommy. Ah ! that's a good stroke : six ! "

"Blackguard, eh? Come, I like that.
Because I am open and above-board, and
you are about the most underhanded ruffian

Q 2

that ever lived, I'm a blackguard, and you are
only Squire Luke. Why, you sneaking "

Don't call names, Tom," said the squire,
laughing huskily, with his heavy face bloated
and red from the wine be had taken. " Little
boy, younger brother, if you are rude I
may use the stick in the shape of a billiard
cue."

*' I only wish you would," said Tom, grinding
his teeth as he played, striking the balls
viciously, and scoring now every time.

'* Oh, that's it, is it ? " cried the squire ;
going to win, are you ? We shall see."

*' Win ? Curse the game ! I could give
you fifty out of a hundred, and beat you
easily. Look here, are you going to let me
have that money ? "

*'No, I am not ; mind your play."

"Then I'll have it somehow."

'^ Burglary?"

No ; ril make it so unpleasant for a
certain person about some things I know
that he shall be glad to lay down the hundred
instead of lending it, as one brother should to
another."

The squire's face grew dark, and the cue
quivered in his grasp, as he gazed full at
Tom Candlish, the brothers looking; singularly
alike in their anger. But the elder
turned it off with a curious, unpleasant
lauorh, and leant over the table to make a
stroke.

*' Don't be a fool, Tom," he said, playing.
"You always did have too much tongue."

Too much or too little, I mean to use it
more, instead of submitting to the tyranny
of such a mean-spirited hound as you.
What the old man could have been thinking
of to leave the estate to such a miserly
cur "

'^ Mean-spirited hound ! miserly cur, eh ! "
.said the squire, between his teeth.

*eyes; and I repeat it," cried Tom Candles,
who was furious with disappointment.
He found that humility was useless, and
that now they had begun to quarrel, his only
chance of getting money was by bullying
and threats ; so without heeding the gathering
anger in his brother's eyes as he went on
playing rapidly in turn and out of turn, he

kept up his attack. '"'What the governor
could have been thinking of, I say "

Leave the governor alone, Tom," growled
the squire. "He knew that if he left the
money to me with the title, the estate would
be kept out of the lawyers' hands, and the
money would not be found in pretty women's
laps."

But down your throat, you sot ! "

The squire looked up at him again, and he
was going to make some furious retort, when
the old butler's steps were heard ascending
the flight of stairs, and he entered the room.

'' Can I bring anything else, Sir Luke,
before I go to bed ? "

*' No, Smith," said the squire; "what
time is it ? "

Half-past ten, sir.'

'' All locked up ? Servants gone to bed ? "

"Yes, Sir Luke."

"That'll do, then, without Mr. Tom wants
some more hot water."

"No; I'm in hot water enough," growled
Tom, lio^htiufy a cigar, and the butler withdrew.


For some few minutes there was no sound
but the click of the billiard balls, as the
squire, forgetful entirely of the game, kept
on knocking; the red here, the white there,
while Tom Candlish paced up and down, cue
in hand, emitting regular puis of smoke, as
if he were some ano:rv machine moved by an
internal fire.

Doors were heard to shut here and there,
and then all was silent in the old place save
the regular pacing about of Tom, the squire's
hasty tread, and the clicking of the billiard
balls.

"Now, then I" cried Tom, at last; 'rare
you going to let me have that money ? "

"No," said the squire, coolly enough. ''I
wouldn't let you have it now for your
bullying. I'm a hound and a cur, am I,
my lad ? "

'•' Yes, you are a despicable hound and
a miserable cur, and if the old man had
known "'

'let the old man rest," said the squire,
with a lurid look.

I say, if the old man had known how

you were going to spend his money, setting
from morning to night "

** He'd have left it to you to spend on the
loose, eh ? "

Loose ? Why, you are ten times as loose
as I am ; but you are so proud of your good
name that you sneak about in the dark todo
your dissipation. I am manly and
straightforward in mine."

"Yes, you're a beauty," said the squire
mockingly. " Which of those girls are you
going to marry — Leo Salis or Dally Matlock?"


You mind your own affairs, and leave
me to manage mine ! " said Tom Candlish
fiercely.

'but I should like to know," said the
squire, "because then I could arrange about
the paper and furniture for the rooms."

Do you want to quarrel, Luke ?"

"Quarrel?" chuckled the squire; "not L
Trying to be brotherly and to make things
pleasant. If it is to be Leo, of course we
must have grays and sage greens and terra
cotta. If it is to be Dally Matlock, we

must go in for red and yellow and purple.
How delightful to have the sexton's granddaughter
for a sister! I say, Tom, how
happy we shall be ! "

Tom Candlish turned upon his brother
furiously, as if about to strike ; and the
squire, though apparently laughing over his
banter, and about to play, kept upon his
guard.

But no blow was struck. Tom uttered a
low sound, like the muttering growl of an
angry dog, and smoked quickly, giving the
butt of his cue a thump down upon the
floor from time to time as he walked.

I shan't mind your marrying, Tom ; and
there's plenty of room for you to bring a
wife to. I shan't marry, so your boy will
<j:et the title — and the coin."

o

Coin ? " cried Tom savagely ; " there'll
be none left. Do you think I don't know
how you are spending it ? "

"Xever mind how I spend it, my lad. I
only spend what is my own ; and if I had
spent all, I shouldn't come begging to you."

"Lucky for you," cried Tom Candlish

tauntingly. '' Look here, Like, how many
years does it take a man to drink himself to
death ? "

'don't know," said the squire, wincing.

Well, you're hard at work, and I shall
watch the experiment with some curiosity.
I've a good chance."

Healthier man than you, Tom ; and it'll
take me longer to kill myself than it will take
you. I shall be a hale man long after you've
broken your neck hunting."

'look here ! " cried Tom savagely, "once
more : do you want to quarrel ? "

Not I," said the squire ; " and I don't
want to fight. Cain might kill Abel over
again with an unlucky blow."

'Pon my soul, Luke, if I could feel sure
that Cain would be hung for it, I shouldn't
mind playing Abel."

'•' Look at that ! " cried the squire, as, after
a random shot, the red ball went into one
pocket, the white into another. "There's a
shot ! "

"Yes — a fluke," sneered Tom. "Your life
has been a series of flukes. It was one that

you were born first, and another that you
ever lived ; while in earnest, as in play, it's
always fluke, fluke, fluke ! "

Anchor flukes take fast hold of the
ground, Tome"' said the squire, with a sneers
lauo[h.

'* Yes, and of the money, too," cried Tom.
'come, I'll give you another chance. Will
you let me have that cash ? "

"No."

Not to save me from a writ ? "

'' Who holds the bills ? "

'' That scoundrel Thompson. North's
cousin."

"Then he'll worry you well for it," said
the squire. " Let him. It'll be a lesson for
you, and bring you to your senses. You'll
be more careful."

"Nonsense ! Let me have the money."

I might have let you have it, and precious
unwillingly, too," said the squire. '' I
might, I say, have let you have the money
to save you for the last time, but your
bullying tone, and the way in which you
have spoken to me to-night, have quite

settled it. You may have writs and be
arrested, and turn bankrupt if you like : it
doesn't make any difference to me. Yes, it
would ; for perhaps I should get rid of you fora
time."

You cursed, mean, unbrotherly bound ! "
cried Tom furiously ; and, throwing down
the cue upon the table just as his brother
was about to play, he swung out of the
room, descended the stairs, and went up to
bis bedroom.

Hang him ! " muttered the squire, going
to a side table and pouring himself out half
a tumbler of strong brandy, which he diluted
a little, and then drank off half at a draught.
I wish to goodness he'd go altogether. I
won't pay his debts any more. That's not a
bad stroke. How a drop of brandy does
steady a man's hand ! Let him swear and
growl. Five hundred's enough for him fora
year, and the old man was quite right."

He want on playing for another half-hour,
practising strokes with very little success,
til], glancing at his watch, he found it was
close upon midnight, and placing his cue in

the rack, he poured himself out some more
brandy, drank it, turned down the lamp, and
was moving towards the baize swinor-door,
when it opened, and Tom Candlish stood in
the opening.

'^ Hallo !" said the squire; " thought you'd
gone to bed."

** What's the good of my going to bed with
that money trouble to think about."

*shave some brandy? Make you forget
it. I've left some on the table."

"Xo fooling, Luke. 1 was out of temper.
I've been worried, and I said things I didn't
mean."

'•' Always do. Here, let me come by. I
want to go to bed."

'all right, you shall directly, old fellow;
but you'll let me have that money ? "

*not a sou."

I want it horribly ; and it will save meno
end of worry. You'll let me have it ? "

"Not a sou, I tell you."

Come, Luke, old chap, don't be hard
upon me. I've been waiting patiently till I
got cool, and you had finished playing, before

I came and spoke to you again. Now, then,
it's only a hundred."

'rand it'll be a hundred next week, and
a hundred next month. I won't lend you a
penny,"

"Then, give it me. I've a right to some
of the old man's coin."

'not a sou, I tell you, and get out of my
way. I want to go to bed."

You'll help me, Luke ? "

"No! Stand aside!"

Come, don't be hard. I'm your brother."

"Worse luck!" said the squire, whose
face was flushed by the brandy he had
taken.

"Never mind that. Let me have the
hundred."

I tell you again, not a sou. Curse you !
Will you let me come by ? " cried the squire
savagely ; for the spirit had taken an awkward
turn, and his face grew purple.

"Once more; will you let me have the
money ? "

No I " roared the squire. " Get out of
the way — dog ! "

Dog, yourself ! Curse you for a mean
hound !" cried Tom Candlish, with a savage
look. " You don't go by here till you've
given me a cheque."

The squire's temper was fully roused now.
He had restrained it before ; though, several
times when he had uttered a low laugh and
kept on handling his cue, his anger had been
seething, and ready to brim over.

Now, at his brother's threat, that he
should not pass until he had signed a
cheque, he seized Tom by the shoulder ashe
blocked the way, and flung him aside.

Luke Candlish cleared the passage for his
descent ; but roused the evil in his brother,
so that Tom closed with him in a fierce
grip.

The struggle was almost momentary.
There was a wrestling here and there, and
then Luke Candlish put forth his whole
strength as he practised a common Cornish
trick, and Tom was thrown heavily upon
the landing;.

There ! " cried the squire ; 'lie there, you
idiot ! You'll get no cheque from me."

The squire had to pass over his brother's
body to reach the stairs, and he was in the
act of rapidly crossing him, when, with a
desperate effort, Tom made a savage snatch
at his leg.

The result was what mi^rht have been expected
: the sudden check caused the squire
to lose his balance, and he literally pitched
head foremost down the stairs, to fall with
a heavy crash at the bottom.

Tom Candlish rose to his hands and
knees, and gazed at where his brother lay,
just beneath the lamp in the lobby, head
downwards, and in a curiously - awkward
position for a living man.

A Terrible SILENCE.

'' Serve him right," muttered Tom. Then
rising and pushing the door, which had
swung to, he entered the dark billiard-room,
where he felt his way to the spirit stand,
and took a hearty draught. " Curse him !
he's as strong as a horse. I wish he had
broken his neck."

The brandy gave him nerve, and he returned
through the baize door into the light.

"Must lend him a hand, I suppose," he
muttered, as he descended the stairs to where
the squire lay in a heap, his head upon
the mat, one leg doubled beneath him, and
the other through the balustrade, which held
it fast,

vol. I. R

Tom Candlish stood peering down at him
for a few moments, and then, as his brother
did not move, he stooped towards him.

Here," he said roughly, as he took hold
of his wrist ; *' don't lie like that ; you'll have
a blood-vessel burst."

There was no reply ; and, as the wrist
was loosed, the arm fell in an absolutely
nerveless way.

'' Here, Luke ! " he cried ; *' get up. Don't
fooL Get up, man ! "

Still no reply, and, beginning to be
startled, Tom Candlish went down upon one
knee and tried to move his brother's head
into a more comfortable position.

As he did so, the light fell athwart so
ghastly and strange a countenance, from
whose lips the blood was slowly trickling,
that he let the head glide from his hands,
for it to sink suddenly with a dull thud
upon the stairs.

Good God ! " ejaculated the young man,
in a low, excited voice. '' Here, Luke I
Luke, old man : hold up ! "

There was no movement— not even a sigh ;

A Terrible SILENCE. 24:

and Tom CaiKllish ran to alarm the house ;
but, as he reached the swine-door at the
end of the passage, and stood gazing into
the hall, he stopped and ran back to lay his
hand upon his brother's heart ; then caught
his wrist, and afterwards thrust a hand right
into his breast, but only to withdraw it quite
aghast.

'there! a doctor!" he gasped, his voice
being like a hoarse whisper. " Smith ! Somebody
! Here ! "

He rose and hurried to the door leading
the entrance hall once more, but stopped
again as he reached it, and stood gazing
back at the (distorted figure at the foot of
the stairs.

Then he turned and looked up the dimly-lit
staircase, but all was perfectly still. Ko
one appeared to have heard the altercation or
the fall. All seemed to be sleeping ; and,
panting heavily, as wild thoughts full of
vender and dread flooded his brain, Tom
Candlish closed the door softly, ran back
along the passage, ascended the stairs, and
gained the billiard-room, where he groped his

R 2

way once more to the spirit stand, removed
the stopper, and drank heavily from the
brandy decanter.

"Hah !" he ejaculated, as he took a long
breath, and turned to see that the oval
pane in the baize door seemed to have
assumed the aspect of a huge, dull eye glaring
at him.

"Am I 2[oino^ mad?" he muttered, as he
staggered to the door. " I must call help ;
perhaps — perhaps — he is seriously hurt."

He stole softly down the stairs, and
paused by the prostrate figure, still lying
perfectly motionless, and in its hideously-distorted
position.

I must call help — call help ! " whispered
the young man, whose face was now ghastly ;
but though there were bells that might have
been rung and people were within call, he
only crept along the passage, without attempting
to touch the fallen man, pushed
the spring-door gently, so that it should
make no noise, closed it again, stood listening
e, and then, in the midst of the dead
silence, stole on tip-toe up the grand staircase

to this bedroom, where he once more
stopped to listen, and then crept softly in
and closed the door.

The silence in the old Hall was as that of
death for a few moments, before it was
broken by a faint click, as of the bolt of a
lock just shot.

Once more silence, and then on the dim
staircase there was a musical spurring noise,
followed by the pleasant chimes of a clock,
which rang out the half-hour after midnight.


Then once again the stillness as of death.

SMITH FINDS SOMETHING Wrong.

'you heard nothing?" said the doctor.

Nothing at all. I went to bed at the
usual time, sir," said the butler — " half-past
ten — yes, sir, I've the chaise waiting ; won't
you come in that, and I can tell you as we
drive over ? "

Yes ; all right," said the doctor, and five
minutes later they were rattling along the
road towards the Hall.

*' Now, go on," said North.

*' Yes, sir ; I went to bed as usual, and
slept very soundly till about an hour ago,
and then I suddenly woke. I don't know
what made me wake; but I did, and somehow
began thinking, as I've often thought

before, about the plate in the pantry, and
whether it was safe."

Don't you sleep in the pantry ? "

No, sir ; it's so clamp. So I lay telling
myself it was all nonsense and fancy ; hut
the more I thought so, the more uncomfortable
I grew, till I could stand it no longer,
and I got up, slipped on my trousers and
great-coat, and went to the top of the stairs,
where I felt quite a chill, as I knew something
was not as it should be, for the lamp
was not turned out on the hall table."

What lamp ? "

The hall lamp that Sir Luke always puts
out himself when he goes up to bed."

"Where do you say you left him last
night ? "

'sin the billiard-room, sir, playing with
Mr. Tom, sir."

Yes ; go on."

"So I went down, sir ; and there saw
through the baize door that the lamp was
burning at the end of the passage at the
foot of the billiard-room stairs."

"Yes."

"And as soon as I got through the baize
door, there, under the lamp, lay my poor
master, all like of a heap."

'' What did you do ? "

Kan to him, and tried to put him in a
more comfortable position, sir ; but "

*' Yes ; I understand."

*then I rushed up and called Mr. Tom,
sir ; and we went to the squire together,
and another bells and alarmed the house.
Then, as soon as the boy had put the horse
in the chaise, sir, I drove over to fetch
you."

"But did you do nothing to try and
revive him ? "

*soh! yes, sir; but "

"I understand," said the doctor. "And
Mr. Tom?"

"He couldn't believe it, sir. He said he
played billiards with the squire for some time,
and then grew tired and went to bed, leaving
him knocking the balls about, and it's all
very plain, sir. I tell you of course, though
1 wouldn't say so to another soul, poor Sir
Luke used to take a great deal too much. 1

filled the spirit stand only this morning, and
the brandy decanter was quite empty. He
had a deal too, at dinner, before."

*•' And you think he pitched downstairs,
Smith ? "

Yes, sir ; that is my belief," said the
butler; "and Mr. Tom seemed to think so
too."

They reached the Hall to find every one
in a state of the most intense excitement,
but an ominous silence reio-nino^ through the
place.

'* Thank goodness you've come at last,"
cried a familiar voice, and Tom hurried to
meet North. 'pray be quick ; he is insensible
still."

The doctor looked at the young man
curiously.

"Where is he ? "

We carried him into the dining-room,
and laid him on a sofa ; but he has not
stirred since. I'm afraid something is
broken."

As he spoke he led North into the diningroom,
where the candles were burning, the

shutters were closed, and curtains drawn ;
and there, upon a couch in the middle of
the room, lay Sir Luke Candlish, as his
brother had said, without having moved since
he had been borne carefully in.

The doctor's examination was short, and
Tom Candlish stood looking on, apparently
too much overcome to speak.

"Well," he said at last, " is he very bad ?
Is anything broken ? "

The doctor raised his eyebrows, and could
have replied " his neck," but he said simply :
Bad, sir ? Can you not see that he is
dead ? "

Dead ? " ejaculated Tom ; and his jaw
dropped, while his face assumed a look of
intense horror.

Yes, sir. The butler's theory seems to be
quite correct. Sir Luke must have pitched
headlong from the top of the stairs to the
bottom."

And there is no hope ? "

The doctor shook his head, and laid his
hand upon the young man's arm, signing to
him to quit the room.

Tom followed mechanically.

'' So horrible ! " he said, as soon as they
yere in the drawing-room. *' We were playing
billiards together till late last night,
while now Yes, what is it ? "

"I beg pardon. Sir Thomas' said the old
butler softly, '' the housekeeper said would
you and Dr. North like a cup of tea ? "

Sir Thomas ! " The title made Tom
Candlish thrill as he stood gazing at the
speaker. So soon ! Le Roi est mort ! Vive
le Roi!

He was Sir Thomas Candlish. The estate
was his and the rent-roll of at least five
thousand a year. Last nio^ht he was erased
at the possibility of trouble arising from
Thompson. Now he was a free man : he
was rich.

And his brother ?

It was his secret. And why should he
trouble about the sudden death ? It was
an accident, and his own counsel could easily
be kept. There was none to reveal the
truth. The dead could never speak.

As he mused like this, and the butler

brought in the tea, Dr. North was lost
in a fit of musing, for, like a flash, the
scientific fancy upon which he had so long
pondered came to him, so that for the moment
he stood breathless and gazing wildly
at the door which seemed to open before
him.

The idea was bewildering. Leo had bidden
her suitor distinguish himself as the price
at which her love was to be won ; and the
more he thought, the more the idea shone
out, dazzling him by its intense light — shining
into the dark places of his soul.

What was his theory ? That if a hale,
hearty man were suddenly cut off by some
accident, and apparently dead, could he
arrest decay. Nature herself would repair
the injury done, even as a fractured bone
rapidly knits together and becomes stronger
than before.

Here, then, was a hale, hearty man suddenly
cut down ; he was the medical man
in attendance, and the opportunity served
for restoring this man to life. Why should
he not make his first essay now ?

The idea strew more terrible in its intensity
hour by hour. It was his chance if
he would grasp it. Impious ? Xo, not more
so than performing an operation or trying to
save a sufferer from death. But he was
dead.

What we call dead," muttered North ;
but why not suspended animation ? For
her sake, for my own fame, to achieve a
success such as the world has not heard of
before, I must — I will make the essay."

'but how?"

And suppose I make him live once more
what then ? "

The idea blinded him, and he covered his
eyes to think.

AH ! "

'how horrible!" the curate said, when he
heard the news from North, who came in at
breakfast time.

As he spoke these words, Leo entered the
room, and stopped short, gazing from one to
the other.

She had come down looking happy and
contented, with a satisfied smile upon her
curved lips, heightened by a rather mocking
light which danced in her eyes, as they
encountered those of the doctor. There
was a feeling of triumph, the satisfaction of
a vain, weak woman at the sight of the slave
ready to cast himself at her feet, and her manner
was coquettish as she held out her hand.

But her brother's ejaculation, the stern
look on the doctor's face, chilled her, and

lie stopped short, looking from one to the
other, her lips parting as if for the utterance
of words which would not come.

'* What is it ? " she said at last, wildly.
'MVhat is horrible?"

Hush, Leo ! '' said the curate, taking her
hand ; " don't be alarmed."

"But you said "

Yes : North has brought in terrible news
from the Hal]."'

Leo's face turned ghastly, and she clung
to her brother, while North hurriedly placed
a chair, into which she sank, but only to sit
up rigidly, as she stared with widely opened
eyes at the doctor.

'•'Be calm," he said tenderly. 'you are
still weak."

'• What is it ? " she said, in a voice that did
not sound like her own.

"It would be better that you should not
know," said North. " There has been a sad
accident at the Hall."

*'I must know now," panted Leo, as she
opened and closed her hands in her excitement.

It would be better to speak," said the

curate. '' My sisters have been schooled to
trouble, North. There has been a terribly
sudden calamity at the Hall, Leo, dear.
North was called up in the night, and "

'* Is he dead ? " she whispered hoarsely ;
and then reading her answer in the eyes
of both, she uttered a long, low, " Ah ! " and
sat with her hand tightening upon her
brother's, while she closed her eyes, and an
agonising spasm seemed to contract her
beautiful face.

A fit of giddiness seems to have seized
Sir Luke, and he fell headlong from the top
of the stairs to the bottom."

Ah I '^

Once more that strange expiration of the
breath, which sounded to the listeners precisely
the same, for their senses where not attuned
with sufficient keenness to detect the difference.

I am sorry to have given you this terrible
shock, Leo," said North tenderly; '* but I
felt bound to come and let Salis know."

She did not reply directly, but sat there
spasmodically clinging to her brother's hand
With fingers that were damp and cold.

I am better now' she said at last, ina,
low whisper. " It is very terrible. Does
Mary know ? "

Not yet," said Salis. " I am going to
fetch her down. Has the faintness passed
away ? "

Yes — yes ! " she said hastily. " It was
the suddenness of the news. Try not to
startle Mary, Hartley ; but she is not such
a coward as I am."

You have been so ill," said North
tenderly. " Your nerves are unstrung.
Besides, it is a great shock to hear of so
awfully sudden a death."

Go and tell Mary," said Leo, rising. " I
am quite well now. Speak gently."

"Yes," said the curate; and he left the
room.

*' Tell me," said Leo, as soon as the door
closed. " How was it ? Was there any
quarrel ? It was an accident ? "

She spoke in a hurriedly excited manner,
and there was a wildly anxious look in her
eyes.

"You are excited," said North, taking

VOL. I. s

her hand, half professionally, half with the
anxious touch of a lover ; but she snatched
it away with an angry flash from her eyes.

She saw his pained look, and held out her
hand the next moment.

If the pulse beats quickly," she said,
smiling, "it is no wonder."

"No, no, of course not," he cried, taking
her hand, and holding it in his.

Now, tell me."

Oh, it was an accident," he said, " undoubtedly.
I'm afraid there was a reason for it."

Leo was silent, looking at North searchingly.


Oh, yes, I understand now," she said
quickly. " He drank very much, did he not ?"

"I'm afraid so," replied North, feeling
half troubled at the intimate knowledge
displayed by the woman he loved.

"It is very horrible," said Leo, closing her
eyes. "Hush! they are coming down. Say
as little as you can. Mary is very weak."

For the curate's heavy step was heard
upon the stairs, and directly after, as North
hastened to open the door, Salis entered.

carrying Mary in his arms, she looking white
and anxious, and gazing quickly from her
sister to North and back.

There was an interchange of frances all
round, and then, as if by common consent,
the subject of the past night was avoided
for a time, and North turned to s o.

But you will stay breakfast?" said Mary.
You look tired and worn out."

She coloured slightly, for the words, full
of anxiety for North's welfare, had escaped
her inadvertently ; and the colour deepened
as, in his pleasantly frank way, he smiled in
her face.

It is very good of you," he said. " You
are always so thoughtful. Tf Leo will only
endorse the invitation, I shall be very glad
to stay."

I'm sure we shall be very pleased," said
Leo calmly ; and he crossed to her side, bent
down, and said, in low tone :

I like that."

You like what ? " she said coolly enough.

"The brave way in which you have mastered
your weakness."

She smiled and looked furtively at her
sister, who was less successful in controlling
her feelings.

The breakfast passed over without further
allusion to the catastrophe at the Hall till
towards the end, when Salis said suddenly :

I have a very unpleasant duty to perform."


Mary looked up anxiously.

Yes, dear ; I must go over and see
Thomas Candlish."

Leo bent over her cup.

It is a duty that I must fulfil, North."

Yes," said the doctor gravely ; " especially
at a time like this."

How horrible ! "

And when the doctor left soon after, and
he shook hands with his friend again, the
latter once more exclaimed :

How horrible ! "

But it was in allusion to the sudden termination
of the career of a man who drank
heavily, and there wrs no arrive j^ensee as
to the possibility of a quarrel between the
two young men.

THE doctor's opportunity.

About midday, on his return from visiting his
patients, North looked rather black.

Perhaps it was the reflection from the
sleek, superfine garments of his cousin, for
that gentleman was walking slowly up and
down on the lawn in front of the old Manor
House, and in no way adding to the attractions
of the quaintly-cut, well-kept place.

You here, Thompson ! "

Yes, my dear Horace ; I had to comedown
on business to-day, and I thought you
would give me a bit of lunch before I went

on."

To see Mrs. Berens ? "

Well — er — perhaps I may give her a

call ; but my business was with — dear me,
how strange that you should take any interest
in social matters that have nothing
to do with the body ! "

"Am I such a very eccentric man, then,
that I should study my profession hard ? "

"Not at all, my dear fellow — not at all.
I study mifie hard, my dear Horace. Left
almost penniless, it was a necessity, and I
have, I am proud to say, been very successful,
and am practically independent. But
my visit here to-day was not to see the
handsome widow — there, don't blush, old
fellow."

"Don't be a fool, Thompson," said the
doctor testily. " Now, then, what were you
going to say ? "

"I was going to tell you that my visit
would be to the Hall."

"To the Hall?" cried North excitedly.

Yes. Here, what's the matter ? " said
Cousin Thompson excitedly. " He hasn't
given me the slip ? "

If you mean Sir Luke Candlish "

No," said Thompson harshly ; " I don't

mean Luke Candlisli. Here, why don't you
speak, man ? Has Tom Candlish gone ? "

'' No ; he is at the Hall ; but "

*' That's all right, then," said Cousin
Thompson, drawing a breath of relief. '* Oh,
I see, you've been over."

Yes, I have been over."

And he is shamming illness again because
he expected me to-day. But it won't do,
Horace — it won't do. Come, now, he's quite
well, isn't he ? Don't turn against your own
cousin, and back him up."

'atom Candlish is as well as a man can
be under such horrible circumstances. His
brother is dead."

Phew ! " whistled the lawyer — a long-drawn,
low, deep whistle. " Then he is now
Sir Thomas Candlish."

Yes, and if you have lent him money at
usury it will be all right."

"At usury!" snarled the lawyer ; "don't
you be so fond of using that word. I must
make money, and lending at interest is fair
enough."

^' Where are you going ? "

*' Going down to the Hall at once."

*' You said you bad come to lunch."

Hang your lunch ! I must see Tom
Oandlish."

Impossible. It would not be decent to
go on business now."

Decent or indecent, I must see him at
once."

My cousin ; and how cordially I do dislike
him ! " muttered the doctor, as he
watched the sleek, black back of his visitor
as he went down towards the gate. '* To goat
a time like this ! Well, thank goodness,
I am not a money-grubber."

He sat down in his study, and took a
manuscript book from his drawer. Over this
book he began to pore, but the words danced
before his eyes, and he could think of nothing
but Luke Candlish, the hale, strongman,
suddenly cut off by accident, and of
Leo's words bidding him distinguish himself.

No rest last night," he said, throwing
the book back into the drawer ; "I can't
reread, or think, or do anything."

** Are you ready for your lunch, sir ?" said

Mrs. Milt. "Mr. Thompson will join you,
I suppose ? "

No ; but I dare say he will come to
dinner."

Ho ! Lunch is quite ready, sir," said
the old lady, in an ill-used tone, as the
doctor moved towards the door.

Never mind ; I can't eat to-day. Going
out," said North hastily ; and he hurriedly
left the house, and passed down the village,
where every one was discussing the accident
at the Hall, and longed to question him, if
such a thing could have been ventured upon.

He had not seen Forelock for two or
three days, and almost immediately, to
avoid the torture of his thoughts, and what
was rapidly approaching the stage of a great
temptation, he walked to the old sexton's
cottage.

The door was ajar, and he tapped, but
there was no reply, and the only sound
within was the regular beat of the great
clock as the heavy pendulum swung to
and fro.

*' Asleep, perhaps," he said to himself, and

VOL. I. T

pushing the door, he walked in ; but the
big arm-chair was vacant, and after a glance
round, in which his eyes rested for a moment
upon the old carved oak coffer, the doctor
went slowly out, and, without considering
which way he should go, walked straight on
towards the church.

A sound, as of something falling, made
him raise his eyes, and he saw that the
chancel door was open.

What's Salis doing there ? " he said to
himself; and, entering the gate, he walked
up the steps to the open doorway.

You here, Salis ?" he said.

Nay, sir," came back, in a harsh, familiar
tone ; " parson's been and gone. Things is
looking up again, doctor."

Looking up ? "

Ay. Been tremble quiet lately : only a
bit of a child as hasn't been christen' this
month past. Horrible healthy place, Took's
Hampton."

'^ What are you doing here ? "

Doing ? Here ? Why, haven't you heard
as the young squire — why, of course you

have ; you were called up this morning.
Well, he's got to be buried, hasn't he ? "

Buried ? Yes, of course," said the doctor
thoughtfully.

"Yes; he's got to be buried," said More-dock.
" Some says it ain't decent and like
Christians, as ought to be buried tight in the
brown earth. But they don't know, doctor.
They can't tell what a lot o' water there is
in the ground o' winters. I know, and I
know what 'matins is. Nobody knows how
damp that there churchyard is better than
I do, doctor."

North stood looking at the sexton, but
his thoughts were far away.

Ay, Squire Luke's be buried in the
moslem — he'll lie with his fathers, as
Scriptor says ; and when I die, which won't
be this twenty year, that's how I'd like to
lie with mv fathers. Stretched out nice and
warm in his lead coffin, that's how he's
going to be, and put on a nice dry shelf.
Ay, it's a nasty damp old churchyard,
doctor, and well they folk in Church Eow
know it. He, he, he ! their wells is alius

full o' nice clean water, but I alius goes to
the fur pump."

North did not seem to hear a word, but
stood holding on by the rail of the Candlish
tomb, thinking. His head swam with the
dazzling liszt that blazed into his understanding.
He was confused, and full of
wonder, hesitation, and doubt.

Luke Candlish — dead — the mausoleum —
the hale, hearty young man— struck down.

Good heavens ! " he ejaculated ; " has
my opportunity come — at last ? "

END or VOL. I.

Charles DICKENS AND EVANS, Crystal PALACE Press.

.sir \

'If

.'3,1./

u-^'/r-if'.

■7.' ii

K::-vf'>«

• m

iris

liii

UNIVERSITY

^/■'iiiliisi
.: i'iil liN ill

ipPP

iiii;:^ iii

mm

liii

mm^i

■liilp

III

mim

m

m

mf^-

I

•m:^

iifiilliiiiili

,I^IIJ glggl,lll^^

tttrntjottmueia

A RECOILING Vengeance. By Frank Barrett. 2 vols.

DIANA BARRINGTON. By Mrs. Croaker, 3 vols.

A LEAL LASS. By Basil. 2 vols.

THE LAST HURDLE. A Story op Sporting and Courting.
.33. 6d.

IN OPPOSITION. By G. M. J. Blackburn. 3 vols.

ROBERT HOLT'S ILLUSION. By Miss Linskill. 6s.

WARD & DOWNEY, Publishers, London.

majnt with a shadow

BY

G. MANVILLE Penn,

ArrHOR OF " OXE maid's mischief," "the master of the CEnn;Moxii;s.
"double crxxiifG," etc.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. II.

LONDON :

WARD AND DOWNEY,

12, YORK STREET, COVENT GARDEN, W.C.

1888.

All rights reserved"]

CONTEXTS.

CHAPTER L

PAGE

THE FIRST baronet's Tomb . 1

CHAPTER II.

"a fine perrin' " . 15

CHAPTER III.

FOR A SPECIAL REASON 32

CHAPTER lY.
Mary's bell 40

CHAPTER V.

THE SEXTON HAS A GLASS . . . . .46

CHAPTER YI.

PAGE

THE DOCTOR IS NERVOUS . . . . . 64

CHAPTER Iii.

JOE CHEGG FETCHES HIS TOOLS . . . .78

CHAPTER Viii.

WHY DALLY BORROWED THE KEY 85

CHAPTER IX.

WATCHERS 96

CHAPTER X.

A FRIENDLY VISIT 107

CHAPTER XI.

AN INTERRUPTION 118

CHAPTER XII.

DALLY 'S APPEAL 127

CHAPTER XIII.

PAGE

MOEEDOCK KEEPS HIS t^'ORD 147

CHAPTER XIV.

"what have I DONE?" . 158

CHAPTER XY.

A TERRIBLE ACCIDENT 166

CHAPTER XA^I.

THE DOCTOR IS RELIEVED . . . . .175

CHAPTER Xiii.

THE sexton's news . . . . . .186

CHAPTER XVIII.

AT CAN'DLISH HALL 202

CHAPTER XIX.

DOCTOR AND PATIENT 215

CHAPTEE XX.

Page

A PARCEL BY CARRIER 226

CHAPTER XXL

DR. NORTH IS STARTLED . . . , .239

CHAPTER XXII.

SOMETHING COMING ON . 246

CHAPTER Xxii.
"my dear north!" '258

CHAPTER I.

THE ries Baronet's TOMB.

As Horace North battled with his thoughts,
Forelock chuckled and went on :

They drinks it, doctor, the idiots, and all
the time they say it's horrid to eat a bit o'
churchyard mutton. Squire Luke didn't care,
though. He wouldn't have said no to a bit o'
mutton 'cause it was pastured in the churchyard.
But he has to send they sheep right
t'other side o' the county to sell 'em. Folks
'bout here wouldn't touch a bit o' churchyard
mutton. Such stuff ! Keeps the graves
nibbled off clean and neat. Don't hurt they.
Mutton's sweet enough, and so they goes on

VOL. II. B

drinking the water all round the yard, as is
piled up with dead folk as I've buried, and
my father and grandfather before me. Ay,
they drinks the water, but wouldn't touch the
mutton ; they'd rather starve. Damp churchyard
; and squire's lay snug on his dry
shelf, and me — some day — in the cold, wet
ground."

It all comes to the same thing, More-dock,"
said the doctor, rousing himself.

*' May be, doctor : may be as you're right,"
said the old man, shaking his head solemnly —
' Ashes to ashes, dust to dust ; ' but there's a
deal o' differ, and it takes a deal longer to
come to that. I say, doctor, 'member what I
said to you 'bout squire drinking himself to
death ? " said the old man, stooping to pick up
a crowbar that he had let fall a few minutes
before.

Yes," said North, gazing thoughtfully at
the old man, and hardly realising what he
said.

** More' strange things happen than what
I told you. I snowed it wouldn't be long
before he drank himself to death."

"The squire died from an accident, More-dock,"
said the doctor sternly.

Ay, but what made the accident ? " said
the old man, with a chuckle. *' Alas it steps,
was it bottles, was it corks ? Nay, it were
something inside the bottle. Drop o' brandy's
good, but when you gets too much, it's
poison."

The doctor did not speak, only stood just
inside the chancel door, gazing fixedly at the
old man, with his thoughts wandering; from
the mausoleum built by the vestry, to the
squire's remains lying up at the Hall, and his
strange schemes, by which humanity might,
perhaps, be spared much pain and care.

I've took the last o' that there physic,
doctor."

*' Perhaps be of incalculable benefit to
coming generations," mused the doctor, as he
went on dreaming, standing there with one
hand resting on the tomb-rail, and seeming to
look through the present in the shape of the
crabbed and gnarled old sexton to a future
where all was health and strength.

It was rare stuff, doctor," continued old

B 2

Forelock, with a chuckle, as he glanced sidewise
at the dreaming man. " Mussy me I a
drop o' that alius seemed to make my toes
tingle, and it went right up into the roots of
my hair."

Why not — why not try ? " It seemed a
great experiment, but how little as compared
with what had been done of old ! '' Why not
why not try ? "

You'll let me have another bottle, doctor
does me a sight of good."

I must. It seems like fate urging me on.
It is for her — to do something to distinguish
myself. Here is the opportunity, and I
hesitate."

^' One day I took a dose, doctor, and I
thought it was rubble nasty, but five minutes
after I said to myself, this beats brandy from
the inn. They secrets don't make your
fingers go cracking and your toes tingle. Earl
stuff, doctor. What's he gone to sleep ? "

Yes, I will do it ; but how ? No ; it is
impossible."

You'll let me have another bottle o' that
there physic, doctor, won't yer ? "

*' Physic, Moreclock ? Physic ? " said the
doctor, starting. " You don't require more
now."

"Ah! but I do. See what a lot o' good
last lot did me. I'm a deal stronger than I
used to were. You'll let me have another
bottle, doctor ? "

Well, well, I'll see. Terrible job this,
Forelock."

Ay, it be rubble job, doctor. I'm going
to open the moslem. Say, doctor, 'member
what I said 'bout my Dally. Be strange
thing if she got to be missus up at Hall now.
Why, he be dreaming like again," he added to
himself.

Remember what ? " said the doctor.
^' Your Dally — the Rectory maid ? "

Av, doctor : seems as if them as is maids
may be misses. Who knows, eh ? "

Who knows, you old wretch ! " cried the
doctor angrily. " You look sharply after
your grandchild, for fear trouble should
come."

All right, doctor, I Till. I'll look out,
and I'm not going to quarrel with you. I

ain't forgot what you did when I cut my
hand with the spade."

*' And suffered from blood poisoning, eh ?
Ah ! I saved your life then, Forelock."

And you will again, won't you, doctor ? '"
said the old. man smoothly ; " for I've a deal
to do yet. Don't be jealous, doctor. If my
gal gets to be my lady you shall 'tend her.
You're a clever one, doctor ; but there, I
must go on, for I've a deal to do."

The old man gave the doctor a 2"houl-like
smile, and went off to busy himself, doing
nothing apparently, though he was busier
than might have been supposed ; while, as
if unable to tear himself away, Horace
North stood holding on to the railing of the
tomb in the chancel — the tomb where the
founder of the family lay — the next in descent
of the line of baronets having preferred to
build the noble mausoleum on the opposite
side, where it looked like a handsome chapel
of the fine old ecclesiastical structure ; and
it would be there that the last dead baronet
would in a few days lie.

North gazed straight before him, as he

held on by that metal rail of the Cancllisli
tomb, with a dark plunge before him, and
beyond that, after battling with the waters
of discovery, a wonderland opening out,
wherein he was about to explore, to find
fame and win the woman he told himself he
loved, and who, he believed, loved him
as dearly in return. And yet all the while,
as, from time to time, Forelock looked in
with a smile, after pottering about the entrance
to the mausoleum, whose keys he
held, the doctor seemed to be staring at the
Candlish tomb, which took up so much of
the chancel, just as its occupant had taken up
space when he was alive.

It was a curious structure, that tomb,
curious as the railings which the doctor
held. The edifice resembled nothing so
much as an ornamental, extremely cramped,
four-post bedstead, built in marble, with the
palisade to keep the vulgar from coming
too close to the stony effigy of the great
Sir ^Yyckeley Candlish, Baronet, of the days
of good King James ; the more especially
that, in company With his wife, Dame

Candlish, he had apparently gone to bed
with all his clothes on. He had been, unless
the sculptor's chisel had lied, a man like a
bull-headed butcher who had married a cook
and she was represented in her puffs and
furbelows, and he in his stuffed breeches
and rosette shoes, feathered cap, and short
cape. His feet had the appearance of ornaments,
not members for use ; and his lady's
hands, joined in prayer, were like small gloves,
as they lay there side by side. A pair of
ornaments upon which their posterity might
gaze what time they came to read the eulogy
in Latin carved in a panel of the stone bedstead,
with arms and escutcheons, and mottoes
and puffs that were not true, after the fashion
of the time.

It was a curious specimen of old-world
vanity, so large that it seemed as if it were
the principal object of the place — an idol altar,
with its gods, about which the chancel had
been built for protection.

'what trash!" exclaimed North, when
he suddenly seemed to awaken to the object
at which he gazed, " as if a Candlish was ever

of any value in this world — ever did one good
or virtuous act.

Any good in this world ? Why riot at
last. Everything seems to point to it. Even
the worst of the race might do some good,
rii hesitate no longer. He can't refuse me."

Doctor 1 Been asleep 1 "

"Asleep, man? No. Never more thoroughly
awake."

'' I asked you to let me have another
bottle of that — the tingling stuff. It don^i
me a mort o' o-ood."

'eyes, yes," said North huskily. "You
shall have some more, old man ! "

'•' Av ; that's right," said the old fellow,
giving his hands a rub. " Couldn't tell me
what it is, could you, so as I might get some
of it myself without troubling you ? "

AVhat is it ? One of my secrets. More-dock,
just as you have yours. Trust me, and
you shall have as much as is for your good."

Hah ! that's right, doctor ; that's right,"
chuckled the old fellow horribly. " I mean
to live a long time yet, and may as well do it
comfortably. I'll come round to your surgery

to-night, and — hist ! " he whispered ; " is there
anything I can bring "? "

*' No — no," said the doctor hastily ; " but,
Forelock, I do want you to do something forme."


Eh ? I do something for you, doctor ? It
isn't money, is it ? "

Money, man ? No ; I'll tell you what I
want."

Hist ! parson 1 " said the old man, giving
him a nudge, as a familiar step was heard upon
the gravel path of the churchyard ; and,
directly after, the tall figure of the curate
darkened the door.

Ah ! North ; you here ? Having a look
round ? "

"Yes," said the doctor ; " and a chat with
my old patient."

*'Ah!" said the curate, shaking his head
at the sexton.

Doctor's going to let me have another
bottle of the stuff as I told you 'bout, sir."

Indeed ! " said Salis, rather gruffly. " I
wish you could do without so many bottles of
stuff, Forelock. But, there, I wanted to see
you about the preparations."

*' Don't you trouble yourself about that,
sir," grumbled the old fellow. *' It ain't the
first time a Candlish has died, and I've put
things ready. That'll be all right, sir. That's
my business. You shan't have no cause to
complain."

Be a little extra particular about the
church and the yard, Forelock ; and, above
all, have those sheep out. Mr. May writes me
word that he shall come down from town on
purpose to read the service over Sir Luke, and
he hates to see sheep in the churchyard."

'Member what I said, doctor ? " chuckled
the old man. '' But what am I to do, sir ?
Churchwarden Sir Luke had 'em put there ;
who's to order 'em to be took away ? "

I will ! " said the curate sharply. ** There,
that will do."

Forelock trudged away.

I'm afraid I have a morbid antipathy to
that old man," said the curate.

"Ah, he's a character."

Yes, and a bad one, too : I'm glad we
have his grandchild away from him."

"So am I, and if I were you, Salis, I'd
keep a sharp look-out on the girl."

"Yes, of course!" said the curate impatiently.
" But you heard what I said
about May coming down ? "

'* Yes ; but what does that matter "? "

'' Only a long series of lectures to me,
which makes my blood boil. I've had
another unpleasantly, too. I went up to
the Hall to see — Sir Thomas — I suppose I
must call him now, and he sent me out an
insolent message ; at least, I thought it so."

Never mind, old fellow ; we all have our
troubles."

*not o'oins^ to trouble," said the curate
quietly. *' Coming my way ? "

No. I want another word with More-dock,
and then I'm going home."

Ah, he's a queer old fellow," said the
curate, glancing towards the sexton as he
went round the chancel with a crowbar over
his shoulder, the old man turning to give
both a cunning, magpie-like look, as he went
out of sight.

The two friends parted, and then North
followed the sexton.

"I don't like it," he muttered. '' Salis

would be horrified ; he would never forgive
me ; and yet to win the sister's, I am risking
the brother's love. Oh, but it is more than
that," he said excitedly; "far more than
that. It is in the service of science and of
humanity at large. I can't help it. I must
—I will ! "

There was tremendous emphasis on that
I will ! " and, as if now fully resolved, he
went to where the old sexton was scraping
and chopping about the entrance of the
mausoleum, and sometimes stooping to drag
out a luxuriant weed.

*' x4h, doctor," he said ; '' back again ?
Parson's a bit hard on me. 1 hope he hasn't
been running me down."

Nonsense ! No. Look here, Forelock,
you have always expressed a desire to serve
me ? "

Yes, doctor ; of course."

'' Then, look here," said North, bending
down towards the old man. " I want you
to "

He finished his speech in a low voice by
the old man's ear.

You want what ? " was the reply.

The doctor whispered to him again more
earnestly than before.

The old man let the crowbar fall to his
side, his jaw dropped, and he stood in a
stooping position, staring.

"You want me to do that, doctor?" he
whispered, with a tremble in his voice.

*' Yes, I want your help in this."

** No, no, doctor ; I couldn't indeed ! "

You could, Forelock ; and you wall ! "

The old man shivered.

'i've done a deal," he whispered; "and
I've seen a deal ; but oh, doctor ! don't ask
me to do this."

I don't ask you," said the doctor sternly.
^' I only say you must — you shall ! "

"a fine bearing."

Boom !

The big tenor bell made the louvre rattle
in the tower windows, as it sent forth its
sonorous note to announce far and wide that
the Candlish mausoleum was open and ready
to receive the remains of the last owner of the
title conferred by King James.

Boom ! again : so heavy and deep a sound
that it seemed to strike the cottage windows
and rebound like a wave, to go quivering off
upon the wind and collect the people from far
and near.

It was early yet, but one little trim-looking
body was astir, in the person of Dally Watlock,
who stole out of the back door at the Rectory,

made her way into the meadows, hurried down
to the river, and along behind the Manor
House, and so reached the churchyard at the
back, where the vestry door in the north-east
corner was easily accessible.

Dally walked and ran, looking sharply
from side to side to see if she were noticed,
gave a quick glance at the steps leading down
to the mausoleum, and longed to peep in, but
refrained, and darted in at the vestry door.

She knew the vestry would be empty, for
she had left the curate at home, and she had
heard that the Reverend Maurice May would
not be over for nearly an hour, so there was
an excellent chance for her to obtain the seat
she wished, and see the funeral, and to that
end she had come.

'' How tiresome I " she cried, giving the
oaken door in the corner of the vestry an
angry thump. " Locked ! "

Boom ! went the big bell.

"And granada's got the key," she cried.
I'll make him give it to me."

Dally looked a good deal like a big black
rabbit turned by a fairy into a girl, as she

darted out of the vestry, and dodged in and
out among' the tombstones and old vaults on
her way round to the big west door in the
tower, from which came another loud boom to
flj quivering away upon the air.

The big door was ajar, and yielded readily
to her touch as she thrust, and the next
minute she had entered, and pushed it to, to
stand facing; old Forelock, as he drao^o^ed
away at the rope and brought forth from the
big tenor another heavy boom.

The old man was in his shirt-sleeves, and
his coat hung up behind the door, with his
cap above it, so that it bore a strong resemblance
to the old sexton, who had apparently
been bringing his existence to an
end by means of a piece of rope belonging to
a bell.

Hallo, Dally ! " said the old man, giving
her one of his ghoulish grins, as if proud of
the yellow tooth still left ; " what have you
come for ? "

I want to see squire's funeral, granada.
To get a good place."

Ah, I know'd you'd come," said the old

VOL II. c

man. " I say, Dally ; Sir Tom Candlish, eh ?
Have you tried how it sounds ? "

*' What nonsense, granada ! and do a-done.
You'll have some one hear you."

He — he — he ! Let 'em," chuckled the
old man ; "let 'em. Sir Thomas Candlish,
eh?"

** I don't know what you mean," said the
girl, giving her head a vain toss.

Boom ! went the bell, after the rope had
rattled ; and the old man groaned with the
efibrt.

** He — he — he ! No, no, you don't know,'
he chuckled, moving sidewise, and giving the
girl a sharp nudge with his elbow. *' But,
my word, Dally, you do look pretty this
morning."

'' Don't, granada. What stuff ! "

''Oh, but you do," said the old man, looking
at her critically ; "and fine and smart too
for coming to a funeraL"

Why, you wouldn't have had me wear
black, granada, would you ? "

They were quite alone in the belfry, and
as the old man talked, he from time to time

gave a steady pull at the rope, and a heavy,
jarring boom was the result.

*'Ah, and I might have said wear black, if
I'd ha' thought of it," said the old man,
examining the girl from top to toe.

Then I hadn't got any black, and if I
had I would not have worn it, because it
makes one look so ugly," said the girl, giving
her head another toss. " Now do tell me
where to go. I want to see welL Can't you
put me up in that loft place over the
vestry ? "

\Yhat ! where you could see down into
squire's pew ? " said the old man, giving
another tug at the rope.

Yes, gran'fci ; it's a nice snug place,
where no one could see me."

''Oh, yes, they could," said the old man,
chuckling. "Anybody looked up from the
squire's pew he could see your bonny face."

I'm sure I didn't know," said the girl ;
and you're very fond of calling it a bonny
face all at once. You said one day I was an
ugly little witch."

Did I ? " said the old man, whose voice

c 2

was nearly drowned by the boom he produced
from the bell. " I repose I was cross that day.
But, Dally, why didn't you come and ask
your old grandfather for some money to buy
black ? "

"Because he'd have called me an idle
hussy, and told me to go about my businesses
said the girl pertly.

No, he wouldn't, my dear," said the old
man, tugging at the rope. " He'd have given
you enough to buy a new silk dress, and a
bonnet and feather — black suns, so that you
might have come to the berlin' looking as well
as the best of 'em."

'' Would you, granada ? " cried the girl, with
her eyes sparkling.

Ay, that I would, my chuck, and the noo
squire could have seen you, and — hist ! " —
loom ! — '' he'd have thought more of you than
ever.

Oh, for shame, granada," said Dally.
'you shouldn't. But will you give me the
money now ? "

It's too late, my chucks."
"No, no, it isn't, granada."

But you must mind what you're cloiog,
Dally."

Another tug at the bell-rope, and a loud
boom ! made the place quiver.

I don't understand you, grandpa."

Oh, yes, you do. There, you come and
see me to-night — no, tomorrow morning, and
I'll see what I can do."

You dear old granada ! " cried the girl.
"But make haste ; I want to go into that loft.
You've got the key."

Have I ? "

'' Yes, and if you don't make haste, Mr.
Salis and Mr. May will be here, and I can't get
through the vestry."

"Ah well, you feel in my pocket there —
in the coat behind the door. It's the littlest
key."

The girl darted to the old coat, and the
next minute had drawn out four keys, all
polished by long usage, the " littlest being
a great implement, big enough to use for a
weapon of war.

'there," said old Forelock, chuckling* ;
*' bring it back to me when you've done."

Yes, granada. '

And mind young squire don't see you.'
Oh, granada, of course I will."
Hope rattle, boom, and a loud chuckle.
Ah, that you will. Dally. There, be off,
and don't forget to come to me tomorrow
morning."

** I shan't forget, granada," cried the girl,
hurrying out, and going round by the back of
the church to the vestry door, as another loud
boom rang out from the church tower.

People were gathering, but Dally was not
seen, and passing into the vestry she opened
the old oaken door in the corner, drew out
the key to insert it on the other side, draw
it to after her and lock herself in, and stand
panting for a few moments before ascending
the narrow, corkscrew staircase, which led
to the traceried opening in the side of the
chancel, from which palace she could have an
excellent view of all that was about to take
place.

For it was to be " a fine bearing."
This was the accepted term for Luke
Candlish's funeral.

His brother, Tom, heir to the title and
estate, consequent upon Luke's single life,
had given orders to the London undertaker
very much to the disgust of the King's
Hampton carpenter and upholsterer, as his
sign - board announced, for this individual
wanted to know why he couldn't bury the
squire as well as a Londoner — that everything
should be worthy of the family. So
the London nan had brought down his
third best suite of funeral paraphernalia.
The first was retained for magnates ; the
sound for London folk of rank ; the
third for the leading country families, who
always ordered and believed they had the
best.

But it was very nearly the same. The
ostrich plumes of sable hue were common
to all ranks, and the velvet and silk palls
and carriages that were used for the higher
magnates one year, descended to the second
place a year or so later, and then came into
country use. It was only a question of freshness,
and what could that matter when the
eyes of the mourners were so veiled with

tears that they could not tell the new from
the old ?

So it was a fine berlin', with the carriages
of all the neighbouring gentry sent down to
follow, and a most impressive service, which,,
read impressively by the rector, who had
driven over from King's Hampton, sounded
almost blasphemous to Hartley Salis, who
had the misfortune to know the character of
the deceased by heart. The coffin of polish ed
mahogany, with gilt handles, had been
greatly admired ; the favoured few had read
the inscription ; and when it was borne from
the Hall to the church, that edifice was fairly
well filled, and the carriages extended from the
loch - gate right away down to Moredock's>
cottage — three hundred yards.

It was a funeral, but to very few was ita
scene of sadness, being looked upon as a
sight quite as interesting as a wedding, and
the lookers-on had duly noted who descended
from the various carriages to enter the church,,
among the followers being Cousin Thompson,
who had found it necessary to stay down at
his cousin's house with Horace North, to

transact a certain amount of business for the
new baronet.

The doctor was not well pleased, for the
society of his cousin bored him just at a
time when his mind was fall of great ideas
which he was anxious to carry out ; but he
submitted with as Q-ood a ojrace as he could
assume, and at the funeral they sat side by
side in one of the carriages, and then occupied
the same position in a pew. And while
the Reverend Maurice May spoke with tears
in his throat of the departed brother, the
doctor thought of science, and his cousin
of money, and of the brother who had not
departed.

Mrs. Berens uttered a loud, hysterical sob
once during the service, for she had gone sofar
as to hope at one time that she might
become the mistress at the Hall.

This sob came from one part of the church,
while a second sob came from the Eectory
pew, where Leo sat — another who had once
thought it possible that she might become
the lady of the Hall through the deceased ;
and, as she sat there, she recalled certain k>ve

passages which had taken place between them,
prior to Luke Candlish displaying a greater
fondness for a love of a more spirituous character,
when his brother stepped into his
place, and the fierce quarrels which had been
common nearly ceased.

There were spectators in all parts of the
church, Dally Watlock being the best placed,
and out of sight of the congregation. She sat
aloft, with her elbows on her knees, and her
chin in her hands, watching two people — Leo
Salis and Sir Thomas Candlish.

The girl's eyes flashed, and displayed her
nervous excitement, as, with her head perfectly
motionless, she watched, with her gaze
now in one pew, now in the other, ready to
trap the first glance. For to her it was no
solemn scene, only a worldly battle, in which
she had made up her little mind to come
out victor.

The service proceeded, and Tom Candlish
half sat, half knelt in his rarely occupied
place, close to the grotesque effigy of his
ancestors. He did not kneel, for he had sin
antipathy to making the knees of his new

black trousers dusty ; but his mien was quite
contrary to established custom. Amen he
did attend Duke's Hampton church, he spent
as much as possible of his time standing, with
his hands resting over the side of the pew,
staring at every woman in the place. Now,
to Daily's orreat satisfaction, he did not once
look about him, but kept his chin upon his
breast — his way of displaying his grief.

Leo, in her place in the Eectory pew, was
as careful of mien, and an ordinary watcher
would have been content. But Dally Matlock
was not an ordinary watcher, and
she had settled in her own mind that
Tom Candlish and Leo would, sooner or
later, look at one another, if only for a
moment, and it was to catch that glance she
waited.

Dally was right, and the glance was so
keen and quick that she was the only one
who noticed it. But there it was, sure
enough, just at the moment when the rector
stepped down from the reading-desk, and
there was a shuffling; noise in the centre
aisle, where the undertaker's men were busy.

One quick interchange at one moment, as
if those two instinctively knew that the
time had come, and Dally Watlock drew a
long breath between her set teeth, while
her little eyes glittered, and again seemed
to flash.

Then the church slowly emptied, the
churchyard filled, and the people formed a
half - circle about the mausoleum, whose
railing-gates stood open, and whose door at
the foot of the stone steps gaped, while a
faint glare came from within, to shine upon
an end of the coffin, as the sun shone upon
the other.

The Eeverend Maurice May's pathetic
voice rose and sank through the rest of
the service to the time when the coffin was
borne down the steps, and there rested once
more ; and his words sounded even more
tearful still as he finished, closed the book
and with bent head took four steps into
the vestry, and sat down and sighed, before
removing his gown, bowing to his curate as
if too much overcome to speak, and returning
to his carriage, to follow the others to the
Hall.

Meanwhile, with a great show of importance,
Forelock assisted the undertaker's
men in the closing of the yawning door of
the vault, afterwards shutting the iron gates
with a strange, echoing clan or and turning;
the key ; while North, who seemed wrapped
in thought, stood watchings him.

At that moment Salis came out of the
vestry, with his sister, and was about to go
up to North and speak ; but he drew back
as Cousin Thompson came round the end of
the chancel.

Why, here you are 1 " exclaimed the
latter. ^' The carriage is waiting, and all
the rest are gone."

Gone ? " said the doctor dreamily.
*' Gone where ? "

"Where? Why, up to the Hall, of
course. We must hear the will."

No," said North coldly ; " the will does
not concern me. I am not coming."

'' Not coming ? " cried Cousin Thompson.
*' Why, the man must be mad."

He hurried along the path, to spring into
the carriage waiting at the gate, while after a

glance round at the knots of people waiting
about the churchyard, North walked slowly upto
old Forelock.

The old man saw him coming, and half
turned away as if to speak to his grandchild,
but North checked him.

Forelock," he said quietly, " you'll
want that medicine to-night."

"No, no, doctor," said the old man uneasily,
"no more — no more."

** Yes, you will want some more," said the
doctor meaningly ; and the old man returned
his fixed look, and then stood rubbing his
withered yellow cheek with the key of the
vault as the doctor walked away.

I don't like it," he muttered. " I don't
like it. Not in my way. Ah, Dally, my lass,,
going .home ? "

I'm going back to the Eectory, if that's
what you mean," said the girl shortly, as she
turned away.

Ah, there she goes," muttered the old
man, " and why not ? She's handsome enough.
But the doctor — the doctor, coming down tonight.
Well, I must do it ; I must do it, I

suppose, for I can't get on without him, and
it's too soon to die just yet. Bit o' money, too
a bit o' money. Man must save up, so as
not to go in the workhouse. Dally, too.
Fine clothes and feathers, and make a lady of
her. Why not, eh ? How do I know he
wouldn't poison me next time if I didn't mind
what he said ? "

FOE A SPECIAL REASON.

JoNADAB MoEEDOCK sat smoking his pipe on
the niofht of the funeral, after Luke Candlish
had been laid to his rest. The old man sat in
the dark for economical reasons, and whenever
he drew hard at his pipe, the glow in the
bowl faintly lit up his weird old face.

He was communing with himself, for
apparently his conscience was pricking him
with reminders of the past.

"Well," he muttered, "it was only lead,
and bits o' zinc did just as well. Sold one of
the bells if I could ? Well, so I would, if
they hadn't been so heavy. Much mine as
anybody else's. I'm 'bout the oldest man in
Hampton ! "

He smoked on furiously, and shifted about
in his chair.

** What was a man to do ? Go to workhouse
when he got old ? No, I wouldn't do
that. Only a few bones as the doctors
wanted, and as would ha' rotted in the ground
if they'd been left. Do o-ood, too. Them as
they honored to's old they're able to do good
with them, I know.

Wish I'd a drop o' that physic, now.
Seems to stir a man up like, and give him
strength. Nasty job, but I'm not sheared !
It was fancy that night. If I'd had a drop o'
doctor's stuff I shouldn't ha' seen that head
going along above the pews. No, I'm not
sheared ; but will he see — will he see ? "

The old man fidgeted about uneasily in
his chair, and had to refill and relio-ht his
pipe.

Tchah ! "What would he know about
'em ? How could he tell ? Nobody but me's
ever been down there, 'kept at funerals, and
them as lives don't want 'em ; they b'lono- to
the dead. Dead don't want 'em, so they
belong to me. Ah ! "

Vois II. D

*' Why, Forelock, did I frighten you ? "

Frighten me ! No. Nothing frightens
me ; but you shouldn't come so sudden like
upon a man."

You shouted as if you had been hurt.
What makes you sit in the dark ? "

'Cause I ain't afraid o' the dark'
grumbled the old man. " Candles is candles,
and costs money ; don't they ? Nobody gives
me candles."

*' Well, are you ready ? "

Ready ? What for ? "

•' No nonsense, man. I'm not to be trifled
th."

Humph ! " growled Forelock. " Brought
that physic ? "

Yes, of course."

Give's a drop, now. I'm about beat out.
Hard work to-day."

North took a bottle from his pocket and
set it on the table.

*' Get a light, and you shall take a dose,"
he said.

'' Nay ; I want no light. I can see to do
all I want without a light."

Forelock rose, went to a shelf, and took
down a cup ; the squeaking of the cork was
followed bv the o-arcrle of some fluid, and
then there was a sound represented by the
word " Fluor '' and the sexton drew a lone:
breath.

Hah ! that puts life in a man," he said.

"Be careful not to take too much."

'' Ay ! don't be sheared, doctor ; I know,"
said the old man. " One thumb deep. I've
measured it times enough. I didn't leave a
liorht. Miorht take attention. Young: Joe
Chesfo^ crete hano-iuo- about. Thinks he wants
my Polly, but he won't get her. Comes peeping
in at this window sometimes to see if she's
here. Now I'm ready."

'' Got everything you want ? " said North.
*' Keys — Ian thorn ? "

** Ay ! Got everything I want ; but have
you got everything you want ? "

Yes, man, yes."

"And look here, doctor; mind this : it's
your job, and you're making me do it."

What do you mean, sir ? "

"I mean as I ain't going to stand the

D 2

racket if it's found out. Repose Parson Salis
comes down upon me about it ? "

I understand you now," said the doctor
sternly ; '' and I promise to hold you free."

But it is for money, isn't it, doctor ? "
said Forelock insinuatingly.

*' Money!" cried the doctor scornfully.
Do you think 1 would do this for money ? "

The old man made a curious sound in his
throat, which might have been laughing, but
it was impossible to say, and then led the way
out of the cottage, merely closing the door after
them, and going on towards the church.

It was a singularly dark night, with not a
breath of wind. Away to their left lay the
principal part of the village ; but not a light
was visible ; and, save for the uneasy barking
of a dog at a distance, there was not a
sound.

'* Not like this i' the morning, doctor''
whispered Forelock. '^ Place was like a
fair."

Don't talk," said the doctor sternly ; and
after emitting a grunt, the old sexton trudged
steadily on to the loch-gate, which he opened,

the key clicking a little, and the lock giving a
sharp snap.

'' Shall I lock it, or leave it ? "

Leave it. No one will come here."

Nay, I'll make sure* said the old man ;
and passing his hand through the open woodwork,
he locked the gate and withdrew the
key.

The two men ascended the steep pathway
to the front of the church porch, and continued
their journey round by the end of
the chancel to the north, where the great
mausoleum and the vestry stood side by
side.

As they reached the end of the path
where it stopped by the vestry door. More-dock
paused to listen intently for a few
moments.

'all right," he said ; " not so much as a
cat about ;" and stooping down, he unlocked
the iron gates at the head of the steps and
they swung softly back. " lied 'em well,"
whispered the sexton, *' and the door below,
too."

Now look here, my man," whispered

North, " you can let me into the tomb, and
then keep watch for me ; or I will open the
place myself, and bring you back the keys."

Nay, doctor, I'm not seared. I don't
like the job, but now you've got me to start
on it, I'll go on right to the end."

That's right, Forelock ; and you shall
not regret it, man. As I've told you, it is
for a special scientific reason."

*' I don't know nothing 'bout scientific
reason, doctor," whispered the old man ; *' but
you said it was somewhat to do wi' making men
live longer."

'' Yes, and it is."

*' And that you'd stick to me, doctor, and
make me live as long as Mephooslum if you
could."

*eyes, Forelock, I did."

'* And you'll stick to that bargain ? "

'•' I will, on my honour as a man."

Shake' ban's on it once again, doctor.
That's enough for me. I like a bit o' money,
and I want it bad ; but no money shouldn't
ha' made me do this. I'm coins: of it because

it's to make men live longer.

"Yes, my man, it is."

*' Then in we goes. Stop ! "

AViiat now ? "

'• You won't bring him — Squire Luke —
back to life again, will you ? Because that
won't answer my book."

Silence, man, and keep to your bargain,
as I will keep to mine."

Forelock drew a long: breath, inserted the
key, opened the heavy door of the great vault,
and it, too, swung easily upon its well-oiled
hinges, carefully prepared by the sexton for
the funeral.

** You won't mind the dark for a minute,
doctor's " whispered the old man.

"Xo," said the doctor, stepping in, followed
by the sexton, who carefully closed the
grim portal, and they stood together in the
utter darkness in presence of generations of
the dead.

Mary's bell.

It had been a gloomy evening at the Eectory.
Leo had been unusually silent, and Salis
greatly disturbed by a letter he had received
from the rector.

That gentleman had only spoken to him
just so far as the sad business upon which
they had been engaged demanded, and had
gone back to King's Hampton on his way to
town, probably to treat his curate there in
the same way, and had left a voluminous
letter, like a sermon, written upon the text
Neglect," for Salis to peruse.

He had read the letter and re-read it to
his sisters, with the result that Leo had
sighed, looked sympathetic, and then gone on

with her book ; while Mary had sat back in
her easy-chair and listened and advised.

I don't know what more I could do,"
said Salis, wrinkling his brow. " I suppose I
do neglect the parish entrusted to me by my
rector, but it is from ignorance. I want to do
what's riofht."

He looked down in a perplexed way at
his sister, who dropped her work upon her
knee, and extended her hand with a tender
smile.

*' Come here," she said. " Kneel down."

Salis obeyed, and glanced at Leo, whose
face was hidden by her book, before stooping
down lower to accept the proffered
kiss.

**My dear old brother," whispered Mary,
gliding her soft, white arm about his neck
*' don't talk like that. Neglect ! My memory
is too well stored with your deeds to accept
that word. Why, your life here has been one
long career of self-denial."

Oh, nonsense ! "

** Of deeds of charity, of nights spent by
sick-beds, facings death and the most infectious

diseases. How much of your stipend do you
ever spend upon yourself or us ?"

'' Well, not much, Mary," he said, with
his perplexed look deepening. *' You see,
there are so many poor."

*' Who would rise up in revolt if you were
to leave."

Yes, I suppose so, dear ; but I have been
very remiss lately and extravagant."

*' Hartley ! " — reproachfully.

Well, I have, dear. I've smoked a great
deal— and fished."

At your medical man's desire ; to give
you strength ; to refresh you for your
work."

'' But these things grow upon one," said
Sal is dismally.

Nonsense, dear ; you must have some
relaxation. See what a slave you are to the
parish — and to me."

Why, that's my relaxation," he said
tenderly. " But really, dear, it almost seems
as if he wants to drive me to resign."

*well, Hartley," said Mary sadly, ^'if it
must be so we will go. Surely there are

hundreds of parishes where my brother would
be welcome."

But how could I leave my people here ?
My dear Mary, I have grown so used to
Duke's Hampton that I believe it would break
my heart to go."

And mine," said Mary to herself, *' if it
be not already broken."

I must answer the letter, 1 suppose,"
said Salis dolefully, " and promise to amend
my ways."

'' Is it not bed-time, Hartley ? " said Leo,
with a yawn.

"Bless my soul, yes," cried the curate,
glancing at his watch. "Time does go so
when one is talking."

"I'm very tired," said Leo. " It has been
an anxious day."

'* I shall be obliged to sit down for an hour
and set down the heads of my letter, I
suppose," said Salis.

"To-night, Hartley ? " cried Leo, suddenly
displaying great interest in her brother's welfare.
"No, no ; don't do that. You seem so
afford."

Yes, you seem tired out, dear," said
Mary.

Go and have a good night's rest," said
Leo, smiling, and rising to kiss him. '^ Goodnight,
dear. Good night, Mary. But you
will go to bed. Hartley ? "

Well," he said, " if you two order it I
suppose I must."

And we do order it," said Leo playfully;
'eh, Mary?"

Yes, get up early and have a good
morning's walk," said Mary, with the result
that the lamp was extinguished after candles
had been lit. Leo went to her room, and
Hartley Salis performed his regular task of
carrying his sister to her door; after which,
by the help of a couple of crutch-handled
sticks, she could manage to get about.

An hour later all was hushed at the
Rectory, and another hour passed when
Hartley Salis had been dreaming uneasily
of listening to a lecture from the rector
about his neglect of the parish, the rector
striking hard on the principle of the rough
who blunders against a person and exclaims —

'•' sphere are yer shoving to ? " The lecture
had reached an imaginary point at which the
rector had exclaimed, with his hand on the
bell :

And now we understand one another,
Mr. Salis. Good morning."

The bell rang just over the curate's head,
and he jumped out of bed and hurried on
his dressing-gown, for that bell communicated
with Clary's room, and had been there ever
since her illness had assumed so serious a
form.

What is it, Mary ; are you ill ? "

No, no, dear," came back through the
slightly opened door ; ** but there is something
s^ wroncr."

"Wrong ? "

'' Yes. I certainly heard a door open
and close downstairs."

THE SEXTON HAS A GLASS.

The Candlish mausoleum had been built by
an architect who had an excellent idea of the
beauties of the Jacobean style, and he had
got over the many-windowed difficulty by
making those windows blank. The stone
mullions, with their tracery, were handsome,
and the way in which the arms of the Candles
family had been introduced where there
was room reflected great credit upon him.
In places where the arms would not stand
there was always room for a crest or a shield,
so that the chapel-like structure was an improvement
to the old church.

But after the exterior had been named,
with its grand roof, massive door, and finely

foro-ed orate and rails, the less said about
desire the better. Mausoleums were evidently
not the architect's strong point ; and
when he came to the interior he was at his
worst.

This was to be a partly underground
structure, and the architect's ideas of underground
structures were divided between coal-cellars
and cellars to hold wine.

Now the former, he felt, would be antiseptic,
and a great improvement upon the unhealthy
contrivance designed by the sculptors
of a past generation to do honour to the first
baronet at the expense of his fellow-creatures
who have malefited to a horrible extent by the
proceedings of our forefathers in regard to
the disposal of their mortal remains ; but
this architect wisely decided that the coal-cellar
idea would be repugnant to the builder ;
so he fell back upon the other.

Consequently for generations the Vanishes
had been regularly stowed away in so
many stone bins, with labels at the ends of
the coffins, to tell who and what they were.

But the great family did not resemble

wine, for they did not improve by keeping ;
and when Forelock struck a match, and lit
his lanthorn to hold it above his head, there
were traces on all sides of the touch of time.

The wine-cellar idea was there, for the
floor was deeply covered with turpentine
sawdust ; cobwebs hung in folds ; here and
there loathsome-looking, slimy fungi had
sprung up ; mouldering destruction everywhere
nearly ; and Forelock watched the
doctor eagerly as he gazed round, seeing
much, but not that which the sexton wished
concealed, for if the light of careful inspection
had been brought to bear here, sad
recollections respecting costly handles and
plates would have been brought to light,
while, had the inspection been carried
further by the modern representatives of
the family, the number of uncles and aunts
and grandparents who were wholly or partially
missing, as well as their leaden homes,
would have been startling, and about all of
whom Jonadab Forelock could have told a
tale.

But the doctor's was only a cursory glance

round at the niches containing the dead, for
he turned at once to the coffin lying upon a
stone table in the very centre of the vault,
which place it would occupy till the doors
yawned for another of the Candlishes, when
the late Sir Luke would be stowed somewhere
on one side.

It was a weird scene as the doctor set
down a small leather bag upon the stone
table beside the coffin, and produced a lamp
with chimney and shade. This lamp when
lit cast a yellow glare all over the place,
and reflections were cast by tarnished plates
and gilded nail-heads from the more obscure
portions of the vault.

The sexton looked on curiously after setting
his lanthorn, with open door, just inside
one of the vacant niches, and his yellow
features gave him the aspect of some ghastly

old demon come hither for the performance

of hideous rites.

"I've brought some tools, doctor," he

whispered, as he took a large screw-driver

from his pocket.

I too have come provided," said the

VOL. II. E

doctor, taking sundry implements from Ins
black bag. "Now, Forelock, I want everything:
to remain here nio^ht after niolit,
just as I leave it, ready for me when I come
again."

"Come again?" growled the sexton.
'* What, shan't you finish to-night ? "

"Perhaps not this month," was the sterii
answer.

Forelock stared.

"Why, you "

Hush ! " said the doctor sternly. "Now,
what are you going to do — stay and assist
me, or go ? If you have the slightest nervous
dread, pray leave me at once."

Nay, I'm not seared, doctor," said the
old man grimly. "I've seen too much o'
this sort o' thing. I was a bit frightened
when I saw that head going along through
the church without the body, but I'm not
feared of this."

Stop, then, and help," said the doctor.
I'll pay you well. Can you use a screwdriver
? "

Forelock chuckled and took off his coat,

which he hung upon one of the ornamental
handles of an old coffin foot. Then rolling
np his shirt-sleeves over his thin, sinewy
arms, he took up a screw-driver — one that he
had brought — and as deftly as a carpenter
began removing the screws from the handsome
coffin-lid.

As Forelock attacked the head, the doctor
busied himself at the foot, with the result
that in a few minutes the screws where all laid
together upon the stone ledge at the side of
the vault, and the coffin-lid, with its engraved
breast-plate, setting forth the name, age, and
date, was lifted up, and stood on end out
of the way.

What will be the best way of opening
this?" said the doctor, as he held the lamp
over the c^leamino- lead inner coffin, with its
diamond pattern and silvery-looking solder
marks along: the sides. " Had we better
melt the solder ? "

Melt the sawder ? " said Forelock, with
a chuckle. *' I'll show" you a trick worth two
of that."

He went to where his coat hung, and took

E 2

LIBRARY

UWYERSin OF iUiNii§

out of one of the pockets a short, curved,
chisel-looking tool with a keen point and a
stout handle.

*' There, doctor, that's the jockey for this
job. Want it right open ■? "

Yes ; I want the lid right off. Can you
manage it ? "

*' Can I manage it ! " chuckled the old
man derisively. '* Look ! "

Strange thoughts invaded the doctor's
breast as to what at different times had been
the pursuits of the old sexton, as he saw him
take the singular-looking tool, place its
point at the extreme right-hand corner of
the leaden coffin, place his shoulder against
the butt of the handle, and press down,
when the point penetrated the thin lead at
once, right over the top of the curved blade.
The rest was simple, for the old man only
worked the handle up and down close to
the side where, acting as a lever, the curved
steel cut through the metal with the greatest
ease, an inch slit at a time, so that in a very
few minutes the top corner was reached.

Then the head was cut across, and the old
man paused to go back to the foot and cut
across there.

'•' Why didn't you continue cutting round?"
said the doctor, speaking in a low, subdued
tone.

•'•'You let me be, doctor," said Forelock,
with an unpleasant laugh. ''If it was a leg,
I shouldn't say naught, but let you do it.
This is more in my Wciy. Look here."

He finished cutting the lead as he spoke,
and then with a o-nm lao-li inserted his
lookers in the slit, raised it a little, and
then soino- to the uncut side, hooked his
lingers in again, placed his knee against the
coffin, and after the exercise of some little force,
drew the long leaf of lead over towards him, the
uncut side acting; like the inches of a lid, and
laying bare the contents of the ghastly case.

"There," said the old sexton ; "that means
less trouble when we come to shut him up
again."

You seem to know," said the doctor
quickly.

** Man in my line picks up a few things,
doctor," replied the sexton. *but there you
are. What next ? "

The doctor took the lamp once more, and
held it over the head of the coffin, to scan
with the deepest interest the head and face
revealed.

'* Seared ! " said Forelock grimly ;
'' what is there to be seared on ? Only seems
to be asleep."

'' Yes," said the doctor, gazing down and
thoughtfully repeating the sexton's words ;
'' seems to be asleep. Suppose he is ? "

The old man stared with his jaw dropping-and
his features full of wonder.

Asleep ? Nay, you said he'd broke his
neck. No sleep that, poor chap."

Hush ! " said the doctor.

Forelock looked at him curiously, as he
bent lower over the occupant of the coffin.

Eum game for us if he were only asleep,"
muttered the sexton uneasily. " Dally
wouldn't like that, and I shouldn't like it.
That wouldn't do."

Hale, strong — life arrested bv that

sudden accident," said the doctor, as lie laid
Lis hand upon the cold forehead. ^' It must
be possible. I am satisfied now, and I
will."

"Did you speak, doctor?" said Forelock.

No. Yes," said North, setting down the
lamp quickly. '* Here, help me."

Forelock approached, wondering what
was to be done next, and with a vague idea
in his brain that the doctor v.'as about to
test whether the body before them contained
anv remains of life before making: some
examination for increasing his anatomical
knowledge.

Now, quick. Lift."

We two can't lift that, doctor. It takes
four men. Why, there was eight to bring it
down."

Can we shift it to the edge of this
slab ? "

Ay, we might do that." And lifting
first at the head, and then at the foot, they
moved the coffin to the extreme edge of the
stone table, leaving a good space on one
side.

'' Now, then, lift again . I will take the
head ; you the feet."

What ! lift him out, doctor ? "

"Yes, man, yes. Don't waste time."

Forelock hesitated for a moment, and
drew a long breath. Then, obeying the
orders he had received, he helped to lift the
body out upon the table, where it lay white
and strange-looking in the yellow light.

Now we can easily lift the coffin," said
North. " Over yonder — out of the way."

The sexton uttered a low whistle, as he
once more obeyed, taking the bottom handle
of the massive casket, and it was placed on
one side close to where a generation or two of
the passed away Candlishes lay in their bin-like
niches.

This done, the old man passed his arm
across his damp forehead.

^^ Mind me having a pipe, doctor ? " he
said uneasily. " This is a bit ex try like. I
didn't know "

No, no ; you must not smoke here," said
the doctor hastily. " One moment — into the
middle of the table here."

THE SEXTON HAS A GLASS. 57

Forelock obeyed again, and the recumbent
figure of the dead squire was placed exactly
where the cofinn had stood.

That will do," said North. '' Now,
Forelock, what do you say to a glass ? "

Glass ? Ay, doctor. Want it badly,"
cried the old man eagerly, as the doctor produced
a silver flask, drew the cup from the
bottom, and gave it to the sexton.

Before doing so, however. North gave the
flask a sharp shake, and the old man's eyes
sparkled as his countenance assumed a suspicious
look at this movement, so suggestive
of medicine.

I say, what is it ? " he said.

'' What is it ? Cordial."

Brandy 1 "

'^No."

Look here, doctor," said the old sexton
hoarsely ; " no games."

North paused.

Shall I tell you what you are thinking,
Forelock ? " he said.

"Nay, you can't do that, clever as you
are," cried the old man with a chuckle.

I can. You are thinking that I have
poison here, ready to give you a dose, so
that you may die out of the way, and never
be able to expose me by betraying what you
have seen."

The old man's jaw dropped again, and his
face grew more wrinkled and puckered up, if
possible, as he scratched his head with one
yellow claw.

*well, it were somewhat o' that kind," he
said, with a grim chuckle.

*' You old fool ! " exclaimed the doctor ;
don't I know that you could not expose me
without exposing yourself? Do you think
me blind ? "

*' Nay, doctor, nay ; you're a sharp one.
You can see too much."

Have I not seen how dexterous you are
at work of this kind ? Do you think I cannot
read what it all means ? Forelock, I'll
be bound to say that one way or another you
have made yourself a rich man."

'* No, no, doctor ; no, no ! " cried the
sexton. "A few pounds gathered together to

keep me out of the works some day when I
grow old."

'•'You think that I want to poison you,
then, and to hide your body here ? "

"Nay, nay, doctor, I don't. You haven't
got no need, have you ? Give us a drop of
the stuff."

'eyes, we are wasting time," said North,
pouring out a portion of the contents of his
flask, and handing it to the old man, who
took it, and, in spite of all said, smelt it
suspiciously.

'"Tcirn't poison, is it, doctor?" he said
piteously.

Yes, if you took enough of it. But that
drop will not hurt you. There, don't be afraid.
Toss it off. It is a liqueur."

The old man hesitated for a moment, gazing
wildly at the doctor, and then tossed it off
at a draught.

There ! Do you feel as if you are going
to fall down dead, old man, and do you
wonder which of these old niches I shall
put you in ? "

Tchah ! don't talk stuff, doctor," said
the old fellow, putting his hand to his throat ;
"you wouldn't do such a thing. That's good !
That's prime stuff. I never tasted nothing
like that afore. It warms you like, and
makes you feel ready to do anything.
Seared ! Who's seared ? Tchah ! What
is there to mind ? I'm ready, doctor. I'll
help you. What shall I do next ? "

Sit down on that lesse for a bit till I
want you."

*' Ay, to be sure," chuckled the old sexton,
as he seated himself on a low projection at
the far end of the vault. " That's prime
stuff. I could drink another drop o*f that,
doctor. But you go on. Nobody can't see
from outside, for I've put lights in here before
now, and shut the doors of a night, and tried
it. There isn't a crack to show ; so you goon."


The doctor watched the weird-looking old
man, as he settled himself comfortably, with
his back in the corner, and went on muttering:
and chuckling.

"Brandy's nothing to it," he went on —

'tasted many a good drop in my time. Eh ?
AYhat say, doctor ? "

You shall have some more another
time,"

Can't see outside. Seared ? Tehah !
It wouldn't frighten a child."

The doctor approached him, but the old
man took no notice, and went on muttering
:

'' He ! he ! he ! I could tell you something
o*. I will some day. Frio-ten a child.
Old man ? Tchah ! Mean to live — long —
Ah ! "'

The last ejaculation was drawn out into
-a long' sicrb, followed by a heavy, regular
breathing;.

North placed his fingers in the sexton's
neckcloth to make sure that there was no
cano-er of strangulation, and then turned
away.

Good for four or ^xq hours, Master
Forelock," he said ; and then, with his face
lighting up strangely — "in the service of
science — ambition — ives, and for the sake of
love. Shall I succeed ? "

He paused for a few minutes, bending over
the body on the table.

*' It seems very horrible, but it is only the
dread of a man about to venture into the unknown.
The first doctor who performed a
serious operation must have felt as I do now,
and— What's that ? "

He started upright, throwing his head
back, and shaking it quickly, as if he had
suffered from a sudden vertigo.

Pooh ! nothing ; a little excitement.
Now for my great discovery, for I must
I will succeed."

He stooped down quickly, and took a
bottle and a case of instruments from his
black bag, when once more the curious
sensation came over him, and he shook his
head again.

"The air is close and stifling," he said, ashe
recovered himself. " I could have fancied
that something brushed by my face."

Then, bending over the prostrate figure he
rapidly laid bare again, four hours quickly
passed away in the gloomy vault, where the
.yellowish rays of the shaded lamp shone

directly clown upon his busy fingers, and the
stony face of him who lay motionless in his
deep sleep.

Four hours, and then he laid his hand
upon the old sexton, who started up wildly,
and extended his claw-like hands, as if about
to seize him by the throat.

THE Doctor IS NERVOUS.

"It's all very well, Master North, for you
to come here bullying me about my health,
and ordering me to go fishing, and half
ruin myself with cigars'' said the curate ;
*' but I feel disposed to retort, 'Physician,
heal thyself.' Why, you're as white as so
much dough."

Nonsense ! " cried the doctor hastily.

Prisoner denies the impeachment," said
Salis. " First witness — Mary Salis — what do
you say ? "

Mary smiled at North, as she said
quietly :

*' I think Doctor North looks worn and
pale."

*' There, you Lear," cried Salis triumphantly.


I'm not convinced," said North. '' I
shall call a witness on my side. Leo, will
you speak for me ? "

"Certainly I will," said Leo quietly, as
she looked up from her inevitable book.

*' Do I look pale and worn out ? "

Leo shook her head.

No," she said quietly. " I think you
look very well. Only, perhaps, a little more
earnest than of old."

"Thank you — thank you," cried the
doctor eagerly.

Why, he looks bad," said Salis ; " and
it's a horrible piece of imposture for him
to come here bullying me and wanting to
give me abominable decoctions, besides leading
me into idleness and debauchery, when
all the time he cannot keep himself right."

"Nonsense!" cried the doctor pettishly.
I never was better : never more busy."

"The fellow's a humbug," said Salis,
bringing his hand down on the table with
a rap. " I'll tell you what's the matter."

VOL. II. F

North turned upon him a look so full
of mingled entreaty and annoyance that he
checked himself.

''No," he said, laughing, "I am as bad
as Horace North. I can't tell you what's
the matter unless it is that he is working
too hard over his craze."

North looked at him keenly, and his
pallor increased.

"Well, I must be off up to the church.
I want to see my friend, Forelock."

'' To see Forelock ? " said the doctor,
with a quick, uneasy look at the speaker.

"Yes. I'm not satisfied with the old
man's proceedings."

What has he been doing ? " said the
doctor, who fidgeted in his seat, and seemed
anything but himself.

Oh, I'm going to make no special charges
against him," said the curate. " Coming my

way ^

N — no, yes," said North, rising, and
going to Mary's couch to shake hands, her
eyes looking up into his with a calm, patient

smile full of resin-nation and desire for his
happiness, which he could not read.

He turned then to Leo, who was reading,
and evidently deeply engrossed in her
book.

"Goinor?" she said, letting; it fall, and
looking up with a placid smile. " What
lovely weather, is it not ? "

North said it was delightful, as he bent
impressively over the extended hand, and
gazed with something of a lover's rapture
in the beautiful eyes that looked up into
his ; but there was no returning pressure
of the hand ; the look was merely pleasant
and friendly, and, worn out with anxiety,
sleeplessness, and watching, he could not help
feeling' a thirst for something more, if it
were merely sympathy, instead of those
calmly bland smiles and gently tolerant reception
of his advances.

'•' Why, Horace, old man, I did not hurt
you with my banter ? " said Salis, as they
walked up towards the church.

•'•'Hurt me? Xo. I'm a little upset;

F 2

that's all. Salis, old fellow, I'm not quite
happy."

''No?" said the curate inquiringly, as he
looked sidewise at his friend's wrinkled face.

I seem to make no progress with Leo."

*' Is that so, or is it your fancy ?" said the
curate guardedly.

'' It is so. She seems to tolerate me.
You notice it."

*'I notice that she is very quiet and
thoughtful with you, but really that is a
good sign."

"You would like to see her my wife,
Salis ? "

"If it were for your happiness and hers,
I would gladly see you man and wife," said
the curate warmly ; " but don't be hasty,
my dear fellow. It is for life, remember."

'remember? Oh, yes, I know all that,"
said North hastily.

Salis extended his hand, which the other
took.

Don't be offended with me, Horace, old
friend. I wish to see you both happy."

I know it, I know it," said the doctor ;

and then catching; sio-ht of Forelock in the
churchyard, he hesitated, half nervous as to
what Salis might have to say to the old man,
but, convinced the next moment that his
fears were without base, he hurriedly said a
few words and went away.

'' I can't see it," said Salis bitterly.
They seem so thoroughly unsuited the one
for the other. I wish it could have been so,
for Leo's sake. Ah, well," he added, as he
walked through the old gate, "time settles
these things better than we can. Good
morning, Forelock."

'* Morning', sir — morning."

Is the vestry open ? "

*' Yes, sir ; door's open, sir. You can go
through the church or round at the back.
Through the church is best."

I prefer going round," said the curate
gravely ; and he went on round by the
chancel, followed by the grim old sexton,
who watched him furtively, and went up
quite close, with his big yellow ears twitching,
as Salis paused by the little path leading
to the steps of the Candlish vault.

"What's that?" he said.

"Eh? What, sir?" said Forelock,
hastily stepping before him to snatch up a
pocket-handkerchief and crumple it in his
hands. " Only a bit of white rag, sir.
Blowed there from somebody's washing hung
out to dry."

Nonsense ! " said the curate sternly.
Give it to me."

Doctor's," said Forelock to himself.
The fool ! "

He handed the piece of linen unwillingly,
and the curate took it, held it out, and turned
to the corners, while the sexton's countenance
lightened up.

Humph ! ' T. Candlish, 24,' " said Salis,
readings aloud. "The new baronet is fyoinof
to favour the church, then, with his presence,
I suppose," he added sarcastically, as More-dock
drew a breath full of relief, but shivered
again as he saw the curate glance at the
mausoleum.

Noo squire's, is it, sir ? "

Yes, and I beg his pardon," said the
curate gravely, as he thought of how lately

the young man's brother had been laid thereto
rest. '' Forelock, ask Mrs. Page to carefully
wash and iron the handkerchief, and
then you can send one of the school children
over with it to the Hall."

Yes, sir," said the sexton, with a feeling
of relief.

Now come into the vestry. I want to
talk to you."

Grumbling; aci:ain — oTumblinor asjain,"
muttered the old man, as he followed his
superior, to stand before him, humbly waiting
for the lecture he expected to receive, but
with his conscience quite at rest respecting
the vault.

Now, Forelock," said Salis, " I have
received a letter from Mr. May, in which he
speaks very severely of the state of the
churchyard."

Why, he never said nothing when he
were here."

No ; it seems as if he preferred to write,
and in addition to complaining of the state
of the grass, he thinks that the walks are in
very bad condition."

Why didn't he say so, then ? "

''I tell you he preferred to write."

** How can I help the place looking bad
when they sheep as Churchwarden Candles
put in was always galloping over the
graves ! "

*eyes; the sheep do make the place untidy,"
said the curate, with a sigh.

*' And now it'll be just as bad as ever, for
Squire Tom sent a fresh lot in 'morning by
one of his men."

*but the walks, Forelock — the weeds
in the walks. You know I've complained
before."

Well, look how bad my back's been.
How could I weed walks with a back as
wouldn't bend ; and seems to me, parson, asa
man as has seen a deal, as it 'd be better
if you mended your own ways about church
'fore you finds fault w' an old servant like
me."

'* What do you mean ? " said the curate
sternly.

•'' Why, I mean that," said the old man,
pointing to the floor with an extremely

grubby finger. '' I've got it to keep clear,
and I do it ; but you grumbled at me for
smoking a pipe one day when I was digging a
nasty grave. You said it weren't decent to
smoke in the churchyard."

I did, Forelock, and I repeat it."
'sand I say as 'garnet decent to smoke in
vestry, and chuck the bits o' cigars about.
You're always a-smoking now."

Salis turned crimson as he followed the
direction of the pointing finger, and saw
several traces of white ash and the stump of a

cigar.

^'Why, Forelock, I— I-

(( M

There, don't go and deny it, parson.
You've took to smoking bad as any one now ;
and I've alius done my best about church, and
it comes hard to be found fault on, and if it's
coming to this, sooner I goes the better, and
sooner Mr. May finds fault with you the better,
too."

The old man walked defiantly out of the
vestry, and went toward his cottage, while
Salis picked up the cigar stump and thrust it
into his pocket.

*' How provoking!" he said. 'must be
growing fearfully absent, and dropped it.
I'm sure I did not smoke here when I came
yesterday — no, it was the day before — to
find out about that old baptismal entry. I
must have walked in smoking, and thrown
the end of the cigar down. Good gracious I
If May had seen me — or anybody else. It is
outrageous. I'm growing quite a slave to
the habit, and forgetful of everything I do.
Tut — tut — tut I How provoking ! The old
man is quite right. How can I reproach him
again 1 "

He walked gloomily back home, meeting
Mrs. Berens, and so absorbed in his thoughts
that he passed without looking at her, making
the fair widow flush and return hastily to her
house, to be seized with a hysterical fit, which
became so bad that North was summoned
to administer sal volatile, and calm the sufferings
woman down, as she asked herself what
had she done that dear Mr. Salis should treat
her so.

Meanwhile Jonadab Forelock had reached
his cottage, raised the big wooden latch, and

passed in with a sudden bounce, but only to
start, as he found himself confronted by Dally
Watlock.

Ah, granada ! " cried the girl hastily
trying to conceal her confusion and something-else
; '• why, there you are ! "

'•' Yes," said the old man suspiciously ;
here I am, and what do you want ? "

■*' Oh ! only to say that you mustn't forget
what you promised."

'•' Oh ! I shan't forget," said the old man.
'but you ain't — you ain't been meddling'
with anvthincr, have you ? " and he looked
inquisitively round.

'' meddling ; oh no, granada, dear ! I've
only just come in, and I can't stop. But do
help me. I should like some nice dresses,
and you would like to see me there."

What, missus up at the Hall, my lass ?
Yes, and you shall be, too. There, give's a
kiss. Be a o'ood o-el, and you shall have
some money and fine clothes and feathers ;
and ril get a strong lot o' chaps together
as shall ring the bells for hours the day you're
wed."

Oh, you dear old granada. He shall
marry me, shan't he ? "

Ay, that he shall, my pretty. Well, if
you must go, good-bye."

'eyes, and he shall marry me, my fine
madam," muttered Dally, as with flushed
face and sparkling eyes she turned back to
the Rectory. " Well, if it isn't Joe Chegg,'^
she cried in a vexed tone, as she saw the
young man coming, and turned through a gate
into the river meadows, to avoid that rustic
and get in by the back way.

"You think you can be very clever," continued
Dally ; " but other people can be
clever, too. Let's be sure this is the right
one," she added, as she drew a big key out of
her pocket.

Yes ; that's the one he give me before.
Two can play at that game. Miss," she continued,
with a vicious look, as she thrust the
stolen key into her pocket. '* Ha — ha — ha !
how foolish I can make her look. Jealous ?
No, I'm not jealous ; for I'm going to win the
day as soon as I've made quite sure."

Joe Chegg was in pursuit, but Dally

took the back way through the Rectory
orchard, aud passed Leo on her way in.

'been out, Daily?"

"Yes, Miss. And I'm very busy. And
yes, Miss ! " she added, as soon as she was
alone ; " Fve got the key in my pocket.
You're very clever ; but perhaps Dally Matlock
can be clever, too."

JOE CHEGG FETCHES HIS TOOLS.

'' I don't like it, and I mean to find it out,"
said Joe, scratching his head on one side.
"And if I find as there be anything going

on twin' new squire and she, why I'll "

Joe Chegg did not say what he would do,
but raised the other hand to give his head
a good scratch on the far side.

o

He then paused in his work to stand and
examine it, his mind wandering amid the
flowers which hung in wreaths ; and these
wreaths of brilliant hues naturally associated
themselves with Dally Watlock, the young
lady who had made a very deep impression,
and was now causing the young man great
uneasiness of spirit.

Joe Cheo-o- was the universal genius of
Duke's Hampton, and was ready to turn
his hand to any thin o-. Did a neighbour's

J CD O

saucepan leak, Joe said it was a pity to
send it over to the town, when maybe he
would set it right by clumsily melting a
dab of solder over the hole. Did Mrs.
Berens' o-ate want mending Joe Chevron would
bring up a hammer and nails and armour-clothe
the wood-work with the amount of
iron he attached. He was great upon locks.
As a rule they did not lock much when
he had attacked them ; but Joe generally
o't the credit of having; done them o'ood.
He worked in iron and in lead, but he was
more wooden than anything else, and delighted
in having an opportunity to use a saw.
Nothing, however, pleased him better
than being sent for at times to do up the
Rectory or Mrs. Berens' garden, where he
would in one day do more mischief to flower
and vegetable than an ordinary jobbing
gardener would achieve in three ; and if it
were the time of year when he had an opportunity
to prune, why, then the poor trees

had a holiday, for they had neither flower
nor fruit to carry for the next two or three
seasons.

On the present occasion, Mrs. Berens had
found half-a-dozen rolls of paper-hanging
of one pattern stored away in the attic,
and had decided to have a small room
papered therewith.

Now, being a sensitive lady with but
little knowledge of human nature, in her
ignorance of the fact that the party appealed
to would have come at once and made a
good job of it for Mrs. Berens and himself,
this lady now felt that the King's Hampton
painter would not care to come and paper
her room as she had not purchased the paper
of him, so Joe Chegg was thought of, and
set to work.

It had taken him a honor time to bee^in,
for he had to make his own paste. Then
while the paste was cooling, he had to fetch
his scissors, and it was while fetching these
that he had seen, given chase to, and missed
Dally Watlock.

He had returned to his work and trimmed

the rolls of paper, frowning very severely
the while.

That took him to dinner-time, with the
paper suggesting Dally at every turn. It
rustled like Daily's clothes did when she
whisked round ; the selvao;e he cut off ran
up into curls like Daily's hair ; it smelt like
Dally — a peculiarly fresh, soapy odour ; it
su Of crested a snuo- cottage that he would

no o o

paper with his own hands ; and then, too,
the pattern — how he would like to buy
Dally a dress like that.

ulster dinner the paper still suggested
Dally so much, as aforesaid, with its wreaths
and flowers that as Joe Chegg worked away
he had slowly achieved to the hangrino- of
three pieces, when Mrs. Berens, all silk and
scent and lace, rustled into the room to
see how he was fretting; on.

Why, Joe," she exclaimed ; " you've
hung it upside down ! "

It was no wonder, for ever since he had
seen Dally that morning, Joe Chegg had
been upside down.

He did not, like Mr. Sullivan's immortal.

n. G

talisecl British workman, say, " It'll be all right
when it's dry," but looked sheepish, and
stared hard at the paper, to see that the
roses were all hano;ino^ their heads, and the
stems pointing straight up.

'' Upside down, ma'am ? " he said, with
a feeble smile.

Yes, Joe ; and you a gardener. Now,
did you ever see flowers grow like that ? "

'when they've come entailed, ma'am,"
said Joe, with a happy thought.

*' Nonsense, man ! It looks ridiculous."

Shall I peel it off, ma'am ? "

"No; absurd! You must paper all over
that again. It's just so much waste of paper-hanging.
There, don't stare, man, but goon."


Mrs. Berens was rather cross, and she
snubbed Joe Chegg in a way that brought
tears to the young man's eyes, which he
concealed by stooping over the paste pail
and slopping about the contents so vigorously
that Mrs. Berens, in dread for her
garments, hastily beat a retreat.

*' It's of no good," said Joe Chegg, '' a

man can t bang paper properly when he's in
Live ; and when he's crossed and crossed
and bothered as I am, he feels a deal more
fit to Laiio^ himself. I'll oo and do it !"

This expression of a determination, however,
alluded to something; in Joe Chesfo-'s
mind which had nothing; whatever to do
with what lawyers term in leo-al lanojuaore
sus per col. He had made certain plans in
his own head, and the coo:itatincr over these
had resulted in Mrs. Berens' paper-hangings
seing upside down ; and for the furtherance
of these plans he packed up his work for
the day, went down into the kitchen, where
he announced to the maids that he was
going to fetch his tools, and then started
off home.

That night Joe Cliegg behaved furtively.
He waited until it was dusk, and then went
out cautiously as a conspirator, as he thought,
but made enough noise to put any one upon
his guard, while he felt satisfied himself that
his secrecy and care were surprising.

"She can't deceive me," he said to himself,
with a satisfied orin. and, ooino- alouLi'

G 2

by fence-side and hedge, lie placed himself
in a position to watch, which would not have
deceived a child.

The place he chose was opposite the
sexton's, where he waited till Forelock came
out, somewhere about the time when other
people went to bed.

Joe Chegg hailed this as a sign that the
coast would be clear, and Dally Watlock
soon make her appearance to keep an appointment,
for he had good reason to believe
that she did meet somebody, and it was to
have a certain proof that he was there.

But the hours wore on, and no Dally
made her appearance, and Joe Chegg's hands
went very far down into his pockets, and
his forehead grew deeply knit.

WHY DALLY Borrowed THE KEY.

There was a reason for Daily's non-appearance
at the sexton's cottage, and that reason
was that she did not stir out of the Rectory
that evening, but was exceedingly attentive
if the bell was rung, and about ten o'clock
presented herself at the study door to know
if there was anything else wanted before she
went up to bed, for it was to be a busy
morning, and she wanted to be up early,
etcetera, etcetera.

Mary wanted nothing more, and Leo gave
consent, so Dally Watlock went up to bed,
but did not oro.

o

On the contrary, she bustled about for
some little time without attempting to undress,

spoke to ber fellow-servant through
the plaster wall, and ended by yawning
loudly and extinguishing her candle. Then
softly opening her window she sat down by
it to enjoy the softness and beauty of the
dark, calm night.

The old Eectory at Duke's Hampton stood
back fifty yards from the road, with its
back to the meadows through which ran
the sparkling trout-stream. There was a
fine old garden full of bushy evergreens and
tall, flowering shrubs, so that partly through
the efforts of nature, partly through the
uunninor of the ancient Gardener who had
planned the place ingeniously, it was quite
possible for half-a-dozen people to be about
the place at once without being aware of
each other's presence.

The beautiful old ivy-clad place was built
in the shape of an [ , with steep gable-ends ;
and matters had been so arraigned that while
Salis and poor invalid Mary slept in the front,
Leo's pretty bedroom was placed so that she
could look straight down the green-embowered
path right to the meadows. Just below her

window was an old rustic summer - house,
covered with clematis and jasmine ; a little
more to the right, in the angle of the [ , was
a tiny vinery, and beyond that the lean-to
tool-house — made an object of beauty by the
dense mass of ivy which clustered over the
thatched roof and walls.

Hence it was that while Leo could look
down on the creeper-covered summer-house,
and across at the ivv-clad tool-house and the
rose - encircled bedroom window of Dally
Watlock, the latter apple-checked young lady
enjoyed the reverse view, with the slight disadvantage
that when she looked across at
Leo's window, she could not see roses, but the
long, laurel-like leaves of a great magnolia,
carefully trained all round — a matter not of
the smallest importance, for Dally preferred
the widow to its surroundings.

Daily's proceedings were strange that
nio:ht. She sat there eager and watchful till
there was a sudden glow in Leo's window,
indication that her yoiino; mistress had 2;one
up to bed. Then as she watched she saw the
blind drawn aside, and a shadowy hand unfasten

the casement, throw it open, and put in
the iron hook.

Dally drew a long breath full of satisfaction,
and then waiting till the blind dropped
and the shadow of Leo appeared upon it from
time to time, she proceeded to behave in a
remarkably strange manner for a young
person whose character means her life as a
domestic servant.

Dally said softly through her nipped-together
teeth :

"I thought as much, ma'am'' and then,
with all the activity of a boy of fourteen, she
tied a dark handkerchief tightly over her
head and under her chin, stepped from her
chair on to the window-sill, lowered herself onto
the top of the tool-house, where she lay
flat down in the bed of leaves, to form, had
it been light, as prettily rustic-looking an idea
for an artist of a Dryad in her leafy wreath
as he need wish to have.

But Dally Watlock was not going to have
a night's rest fresco, for she was exceedingly
wide awake, and as soon as she was extended
at full length parallel with her part of the

house, and with her feet towards that portion
where her superiors slept, she began to revolve
upon her own axis in a very slow and
careful manner, down and down the ivy slope
of the lean - to thatched shed, there being
plenty of stout ivy-boughs for her to grasp, so
as to act as breaks and govern her speed.
Now she was on her side, then as she slowly
turned, her little red face was buried in the
dark green leaves. A little more and it came
up, and she was on the other side, and soon
after upon her back. And so on and on till,
merely crushing down the leaves a little, and
without breaking a twig, she rolled down to
the very edge, when, holding on tightly by
the ivy, she let her legs drop, and touched
the earth, making scarcely any more noise
than a cat.

She remained perfectly motionless for a
few minutes, and then crept stealthily to the
main green walk in the garden, gazed watchfully
back at Leo's window, where the head
and shoulders of her young mistress could be
plainly seen upon the illuminated blind, and
then ran swiftly down the grass path to the

iron hurdle which separated the garden from
the meadow, climbed it like a boy and as
quickly, and then ran rapidly across the
meadows in the direction of the church.

Dally Watlock had not gambolled about
the old sexton's knees as a child for nothing;.
She had been with the old man
constantly, and been furnished by him with
strange playthings in her time. To wit, there
was a bao; of buttons that had afforded her
endless amusement, some being black, others
silvered, while a certain portion were of
superior make and richly gilt. Forelock
called them buttons, but their shapes were
peculiar, and looked as if they had been
driven into the material to which they had
been attached, instead of sewn. There were
some ornaments, too, of stamped metal which
had always been great favourites with Dally,
from the fact of their containing the plump
faces of baby boys with curly hair and
wings.

Dally had many a time sat perched upon
a tombstone and eaten apples while "granada "
dug graves, and the sight of the old man

^oTowino; lower and lower as he duo; till
from being: buried to his knees he went
down to his waist, to his chest, and then
quite out of sight, was always fall of fascination
for the child.

As a natural result, the church had been
a familiar playground on Saturdays, whenas
the old man dusted aud arran-ed cushions
and hassocks, Dally would have scandalised
a looker-OD, for she played at visiting, treating
the pews as houses, the aisles of the church
as streets, and made calls after duly knocking
at all the pew doors, the knocker being-temporary
in every case, and formed of a
large, old, tarnished gilt coffin-handle, which
she held up with her left chubby fingers
while she knocked with the right.

Forelock used to grin and enjoy it,
petting the child, and humouring her in
every way. She would be his companion
in the belfry when he tolled or chimed the
bells, and was even allowed to take a pull
at one of the ropes, while they had often
afforded her opportunities for a swing.

Dally Matlock, then, in earlier life had

stolen away from home as often as possible
and was as familiar with the church roof,
tower, and interior, as her grandfather ;
hence, on the night when she stole out of
the Rectory and ran across the meadows,
she had no difficulty in the way of the
plan she had designed, which was to reach
the old loch-gate, try whether it was locked,
and, if so, climb it.

It was locked, and she clambered over
quickly and silently, took a short cut among
the graves to the old railed tomb, close to
the big buttress by the centre south window
that had once contained stained glass. Here
the smaller casement used for ventilation
readily opened at the insertion of the blade
of a pocket-knife, leaving room for the active
girl, who had reached it by climbing up
and standing upon the tomb railings, to pass
through and lower herself into the dark
interior of the church.

Here, standing upon the cushions of one
of the primitive old square pews, she crouched
and listened breathlessly ; but all was still,
and after satisfying herself as far as she

could that lie was alone, she slipped down,
passed through the door into the aisle, and
then on and on, bent almost double, so as
to keep below the level of the pew tops,
where the darkness was intense.

The girl's every movement was as lithe
and stealthy as that of some wild animal ;
always on the alert for danger and ready
for instant ilioht : but there seemed to be
no cause for fear, and she crept on and on
till the rood-screen was reached, and she
passed into the chancel, where she soon lay
down by the ornamental railings of the
Candlisli tomb, between it and the oak panels
of that family's pew, where there was an
interval quite large enough to hide her compact
little frame.

It was not so dark here, for a faint twilight
streamed in through the great east
window ; but still the gloom was too deep
for any one who passed to be recognisable.

Dally listened, and still crouched therewith
her heart beating fast and her keen
eyes roving from place to place as her ears
strove to catch the faintest sound. The two

grotesque effigies of the Candlisbes reclined
just above her head, the tablets on the walls
fiLiintly shimmered, and a dark mass — the
pulpit — loomed up beyond the rood-screen ,
and all was so still that her breath sounded
to her laboured, and as if passing through
rustling paper.

After carefully scrutinising the place in
all directions, she fixed her eyes upon the
dark patch with pointed top which represented
the way into the vestry. It was j must
opposite to her, and seemed to be the great
object of her nocturnal journey.

For a few minutes all was still. Then
there was a faint chirruping noise which
emanated from Daily's lips, as she backed
softly a little more into her hiding-place.

No response !

She chirruped again, and failing to obtain
any reply, she made a quick motion with
one hand, the result being a sharp rap as if
a tiny stone had struck the vestry door to
make a second sound as it fell upon the
stone floor.

No response !

Safe ! " whispered Dally to herself, and
making; a faint rustling sound, she edited
out from her hiding-place, and crossing the
chancel, raised the heavy latch of the vestry
door.

There was a faint clicJc as she passed in
and closed it after her. Then another
rustling sound, and a peculiar rattling noise,
for Dally had drawn the large key she had.
borrowed from the sexton's cottage, placed
it in the lock of the spiral staircase leading
up to the rood-loft, opened it, and after
withdrawing and inserting the key on the
inner side, she crept in, locked the door, went
rapidly up to the opening where she had
sat during; the funeral service, and then
resting her arms upon the carved stone
tracery, she thrust her head and shoulders
as far forward as she could, and listened
and waited for what was to come.

WATCHERS.

The old church at Duke's Hampton, a fine old
structure, built in the latter part of the thirteenth
century, stood calm and still upon its
eminence that dark night. The older folks
at the village said it was terribly haunted
after dark," and the younger believed.
Strange sights and sounds were said to have
been seen and heard. Ghostly forms glided
on silent wing round the tower and swept low
amongst the tombs, uttering weird shrieks.
Curious muttering and croaks were heard on
high among the corbels and demoniacal gargoyles,
the holes in the tower among the ivy,
and low moans often proceeded from the
shuttered windows where the big bells hung.

All true, for down there in leafy Warwickshire
there were plenty of owls, days, starlings,
and pigeons to make the old ivy-clothed
building a bird sanctuary where they were
never touched. They seemed to belong to
*' my church ; " to Forelock ; and he never
took nest or destroyed their young.

On the night when Dally Watlock took
upon herself to watch, high up in the rood-loft,
steps approached the church from the
back, about half an hour later, and a dark
fissure entered the churchyard, to walk
cautiously and silently up towards the outer
door of the vestry.

As it silently crossed the yard, a head
slowly appeared above the wall, and watched
the tall dark figure for a few minutes, as it
seemed to glide in and out among the tombstones,
and then fade completely away.

The watcher held on by the churchyard
wall for a few minutes, rigid and paralysed.
There was a faint sound of breathing heard,
but it was catching and spasmodic, as if the
watcher were in pain. But at last, after
gazing in the direction where the dark figure

VOL. n. H

had disappeared, with starting eyes, and a
sensation on the top of the head as if the
cap there was being softly lifted, the gentleman
of inquiring mind tried to wrench his
hands from where they clutched the top of
the wall.

It was a momentary act, resulting in his
grasping the coping-stone more tightly, and
uttering the words :

*' Ha mussy upon us ! "

For Joe Chegg felt his legs give way at
the knees, and that he was bathed in a cold
perspiration.

'^ If I can only get back safe home again*
he moaned to himself, '' never no more —
never no more ! "

He felt that he had gazed for the first time
at one of the peripatetic horrors of which he
had heard since he was a child, and in which
he had always religiously believed. In fact,
he would never have ventured to the churchyard
at midnight had he not been moved
by one of the strongest passions of our nature.
He had gone there most fully convinced
that somewhere about he would encounter

the gentleman who met Dally Watlock ; and
to emphasize their meeting, he had brought
his smallest mallet from his tool-basket, as
being a handy kind of tool.

But he had not reckoned upon seeing a
tall dark figure draped in a long black cloak
glide silently by him, growing taller and
taller as it disappeared, leaving him with his
tongue cleaving to the roof of his mouth,
and without the wit to consider that where
he stood in the meadow he was in the dry
ditch, that the churchyard wall formed a
kind of hah at that spot by the rise of the
earth resulting from centuries of interments ;
and that, in addition, there was a steep slope
up to the church, sufficient to make any one
standing by the vestry door ten feet above his
head.

But Joe Chegg would not have believed
these simple physical facts had they been
explained to him. He had seen a veritable
spirit that might mean his own " fetch."
Whether or no, he wanted to go home and
keep his own counsel, mentally vowing — ashe
at last wrenched himself away, and ran as

II 2

hard as he could over the dewy grass— that,
come what might, he would, if he were spared,
never run such a risk again.

He was in the act of dragging himself
away, thankful that he was on the meadow
side of the wall, when a low muttering moan
rose upon the night air, from the direction in
which the monstrous figure had disappeared ;
and that moan acted as a spur to the frightened
man.

It was simple enough, as simple as the
explanation of other supernatural sounds, for
as the dark figure stood close to the vestry
door for a few moments and at last uttered
an impatient *'' tut-tut-tut," there was a
grumbling, muttering sound from a horizontal
stone, and Forelock rose, saying in a low
voice :

*' All right, doctor — all right. I was half
asleep, and didn't hear you come."

The next moment they had entered the
Candlish vault, and the door was closed,
Forelock directly after proceeding to strike a
match.

How much longer's this a-going on ? '' he
grumbled.

Till I have finished, ' said the doctor
sternly ; but there was a strange intonation of
the voice — a peculiar manner — which made
the sexton, as he struck the lio-ht and held it
to the candle in his lanthorn, gaze sharply at
the speaker.

All right, doctor. I don't grumble ;
you'll give me my dose again — seems to
settle and comfort a man while he's
waiting."

Yes, yes, of course," said North hastily.

You cau rouse me up if I drop ofi' to
sleep, doctor. Couldn't get my nap i' the
chair 'afternoon, and it makes a man a bit
drowsy."

North lit his lamp, which stood ready
upon the stone table, and the yellow light
filled the grim place with its soft glow once
more — a pleasantly subdued light which displayed
the surrounding niches and the empty
coffin of the late squire, and shone softly
upon gilt plate, handle, and tarnished nail,

but lav in an intense ring; of brightness
upon the table that bore it and the sawdust
around.

The customary portion from the flask
was poured out, and swallowed by the old
sexton with a satisfied smack of the lips before
he set down the hiss upon a coffin
lid.

Ha ! that's fine, doctor," he said with a
loud laugh, as his countenance puckered into a
goblin grin. *' Cordial that is. Goes down
into a man's toes and the tips of his fingers,
and makes his heart beat. You're a clever
one, doctor — a clever one, that you are. Rouse
me up if you want me. I may go to sleep
again — I may go to sleep."

*' Yes, yes, I'll call you," said North, as
the old man seated himself once more in his
corner with head against the wall, while
before the doctor had settled the shade of his
lamp to his satisfaction, a stertorous snore
came from Forelock's corner, accompanied at
intervals by a low moaning gasp.

'* How easy to produce death!" said North,
in a low voice. " Science gives us the power

to cause that and sleep, which is its semblance,
at our will. Ashy should it be more difficult
to produce life ? "

How many nights is this? " he continued.
'•' Ten, and I seem no nearer — nay, further
away, for — ah ! " he ejaculated savagely,
there is that wretched coward shrinking

agram.

He shivered and looked hastily round ashe
drew in his breath hard and with a curious
catch.

Good heavens ! of what am 1 afraid ?
The first amputation, the first explorer into
Nature's hidden paths, where she guards her
secrets so religiously — they only felt the same.
Have I gone so far only to hesitate to go
further ? "

He stood shrinking, with his hand clutching
the white cloth spread over the table, and
his eyes fixed on vacancy.

Am I — an experienced medical man — to
be frightened by a shadow ? I say that there
is nothing wrong in my researches," he cried
passionately, as if addressing some one in the
corner of the vault. " It is for the benefit of

posterity. My experiments upon this vile
body here are right.

And yet I feel as if I cannot go furthered
he muttered, with the same abject shiver
attacking him again ; '^ as if I dared not — as
if I must pause, and I have learned so much.
I dare not! It is as if the hand of one's
guardian angel were laid upon my breast, and
a voice whispered — ' Each man, pause before
it is too late ! ' "

He caught at the nearest object for support,
for he was weak with excitement, and
his face looked ghastly in the gloom, as he
stood there trembling till he realised what he,
the living, had seized to sustain him — a coffin
handle — and snatched his fingers away with
a cry of horror, to shrink back and rest
against the further side of the vault, but
only to start away again, for his shoulder
was against another coffin.

He glanced at Forelock, but the old man
was sleeping heavily, and once more he
looked wildly round the vault.

'*I cannot go on' he groaned ; " it is too
horrible. There is a terror beyond that dark

veil which seems to hold me back. I'll wake
him up. This night shall end it all, and I'll
rest in peace, contented with what I know.
I dare go no further."

He drew a long breath, as if relieved, and
felt stimulated by his thoughts. It was all
so simple to try and leave everything as
nearly as possible in its old state, generously
recompense the old sexton, and return to his
regular course. The proceedings of the past
would be the joint secret of Forelock and
himself.

"I've done," he said. 'i'll be satisfied.
It is too horrible to go on."

He crossed to the old man, who was now
sleeping quite peacefully, and had raised his
hand to shake him and bid him rise and
help, but his hand stopped within a few
inches of the old sexton's shoulder, and
he stepped back with an ejaculation full of
anger.

"Coward! idiot!" he exclaimed. "That
ignorant old boor sleeps as calmly as a child
among these grisly relics of mortality, and
you, enlightened by science, educated, a seeker

after wisdom, shrink and shiver and dare dono
more.

No," he added, after a pause ; '' it is too
horrible. There is a something holds me
back.

And fame — the praise of men ? And
love ? The kisses of Leo ? Her bright looks
her pride in the man she will call husband ?
Horace North, are you going mad ? Pause ?
Now ? When there is triumph waiting,
and a little further research will teach
me all I want — maybe give me the great
success ?

No ; not if fifty guardian angels barred
my way. I will win now in spite of all."

The coward fit of shrinking had gone,
and, with a laugh full of contempt for himself,
he took a step to the table and snatched
the white cloth from the great stone slab.

A FRIENDLY VISIT.

A WEEK had passed since Horace North's
struggle with the strange fits of repugnance
and dread that had assailed him on his
researches : six nights, during each of
which he had battled with the same feelings
and mastered, and gone on, with Forelock
revelling in his opiate-produced sleep in the
corner.

Nio'ht after nio-ht the old man slept in
that vault for hours, among the remains of the
Candlishes whom he had robbed, and enjoying
a voluptuous pleasure in his sleep, which
made him the doctor's willing servant, whose
dread was lest the visits to the mausoleum
should come to an end.

But these nightly visits were not without
their effects, and these intense studies could
not be carried on without leaving their traces
on the man.

Mrs. Berens was taken ill, and the doctor
was called in.

In her lonely widowed state, with nothing
but her money, her dress, her mirror, and
the visits and gossip of Duke's Hampton to
amuse her, thirsting the while for the communing
of a kindred spirit who would tell
her she was far too young yet to give up
thoughts of love, Mrs. Berens felt that she
must have some relaxation, and she took it
in the form of fits of illness of the body and
ditto ditto of the mind.

For the former she called in Dr. North,.
and told her pains.

For the latter, the Eeverend Hartley
Salis, to whom she recounted her doubts,,
her sorrows, and her sufferings of mind ;
and in each case she felt better, though she
did not take the medicine of the one nor
follow out the precepts of the other.

It was very wrong, no doubt, but it was

very natural ; and Mrs. Boreas, not micldle-
-aged, and plump, and pleasing, and anxious
to please, was very full of human nature.

There was such satisfaction, too, in having
her hand held by the doctor. So there was,
too, when it was grasped at coming, and
again at leaving, by bluff, manly Parson
Salis ; but they neither of them proposed,
or went a step further than to be gently
courteous and kind to the loving and lovable
weak woman, who longed to empty the urn
of her affection upon either head.

And now poor Mrs. Berens was in sad
trouble.

I know it," she sobbed to herself, after
a visit from the doctor. " Mary Salis will
not confess, and Leo always holds one off;
but he does love Leo, and she is holding
him in her wicked chains, like one of those
terrible witches we read about ; and, poor
dear man, she is breaking his heart. I've
tried so hard to wean him from that dreadful
love of a bad, base girl, and the more I
trv the worse he is."

Mrs. Berens sobbed till her eves ached,

and she bathed them with eau-de-cologne
and water.

^' How dare I say she is bad and base ? "
she said half aloud, speaking to herself in
the glass, as her handsome, large, blue swimming
eyes looked appealingly at her ; '* because
I know it. I'm sure of it. I can always
feel it. I'm weak and foolish, but I should
love him and cherish him, while she is
trifling with him — I'm sure — and breaking
his heart.

Oh, poor man, poor man ! " she sighed ;
'* how worn - out and ill he looks ! What
shall I do ? What shall I do ? "

Mrs. Berens made up her mind what
she would do. She could not send for the
curate. She was not sufficiently ill for that.

"And it would look so."

She could not go and see him, for that
would also " look so." Leo detested her,
she knew, quite as much as she detested Leo,
whom she declared to be so horribly young.
But she could go and see poor Mary ; and
after well bathing her eyes, she stripped
her little conservatory to get a good bunch

of flowers for the invalid, and then went
across to the Eectory.

Leo was out for a ride, to Mrs. Berens*"
great delight.

"Master's in his study over his sermon,
ma'am," said Dally Watlock ; "but Miss
Mary's in, ma'am."

Yes, Dally, it is Miss Mary I want
to see," sighed Mrs. Berens ; and then, as
much out of genuine kindness as with the
idea of making a friend at the Rectory :
How pretty, and young, and well you da
look. Dally ! "

"Thank ye, ma'am," said Dally, with a
distant bob, but gratified all the same.

Do you know, Dally, I've got a silk
dress, a pale red, that would make up so
nicely for you ? It isn't old, but I shall
not wear it any more."

Daily's eyes sparkled at pale red silk.

It wouldn't fit you," continued the
widow, " but you could make it up nicely
with your clever little fingers ; " and she
compared her own redundant charms with
the trim, tight little fio-ure of the maid.

Thank ye, ma'am. May I come for it ? "

*' Yes, Dally, do. Now show me in to
Miss Mary."

Dally ushered in the widow, and then
stood in the passage thinking.

'* I wouldn't go for it, that I wouldn't, if I
was quite sure. I don't want to wear her
old dresses. Nice thing for a lady who's
going to have a title and live up at the
Hall to have to wear somebody else's old silk
frocks.

I think I'll go, though," said Dally.
*' No, I won't, for it's coming to a nice blowup
for some one I know, and I'll let 'em all
see.

Ah, my dear," said Mrs. Berens, entering
the room, flower-bearing, and bending
down over the invalid with a good deal of
gushing sentiment, but plenty of genuine
affection.

'' It's very good of you to come, Mrs.
Berens," cried Mary, flushing. " And the
flowers — for me ? "

*•' For you ? Yes," said the widow, plumping
down on her knees by Mary's couch, and

playfully laying the bouquet upon Mary's
bosom, and holdings it there beneath her
chin. '' Now it's perfect. It only wanted
your sweet rose of a face added to it. My
dear, what an angel's face you have ! "

*' Mrs. Berens ! " cried Mary, flushing
more deeply, half annoyed, half amused at
her visitor's flattering words ; but there was
no feeling anything but pleasure at the
affectionate kiss pressed upon her lips, and
the tender touches of the two well-beloved
hands.

"There, I've come to have a quiet chat
with you," said the widow. " I ought to
have been in before, but I have been so unwell,
my dear ; obliged to send for Dr.
North."

I'm very sorry, Mrs. Berens," said Mary,
laying her hand in those of the widow.

''I knew you would be, dear; and, oh, I
have been so poorly."

But you are better now ? " said Mary
kindly.

No, no, my dear. I'm a poor, weak, unhappy
woman, and — oh ! I ought to be

VOL. II. I

ashamed of myself, that I ought, to go on
like that when there you are so ill and yet
so patient that one never hears a murmur
escape your lips."

I don't think I'm very ill, Mrs. Berens."

'then I do, my dear; and I shall come
and see you more often, for you've done meno
end of good. It's like a lesson to me,
and I'll never complain any more."

That's right," said Mary, smiling. " Do
come oftener ; I'm very much alone. We
will not talk about our ailments," she added
with a smile.

No, of course not ; but I have been
very poorly, dear, and I sent for Dr.
North. Do you take any interest in Dr.
North ? "

Mrs. Berens was not subtle enough of
intellect to note the change in Mary's countenance.
At first there was a faint flush ;
then a waxen pallor; but she mastered her
emotion, though her heart beat heavily as
she said :

*' Of course. He was very good and kind
to me all through my illness."

Yes, poor man — poor, dear man ! " sighed
the widow. "And of course Mr. Salis likes
him very much ? "

Yes ; they are very warm friends," said
Mary quietly.

"Then do — do pray talk to your brother,"
cried Mrs. Berens, with pathetic eagerness.

No, no, Mrs. Berens," said a bluff, deep
voice. " I'm always with my sisters, and
they talk to me too much."

"Oh, Mr. Salis! You shouldn't, you
know," cried the widow, all of a flutter.
"You shouldn't come in so suddenly."

Why, I only came in to say ' how do ? ' "
replied Salis pleasantly, as he shook hands.
There, sit down again, and tell me what
I am to be talked to about."

"Oh, really, Mr. Salis, I — I — I was only
going to say, pray talk to or see to poor
Dr. North. I'm afraid he's very far from
well."

So am I," cried Salis. " I have just
been telling him so."

He — he has been here, then — just

now J

I 2

Not exactly just now ; I mean this morning.
You noticed, then, that he seemed ill
and over-excited ? "

'* Oh, yes," cried Mrs. Berens, as Mary
tried to lie back perfectly calm, but with
her eyes glancing rapidly from one to the
other, and her trembling fingers telling the
agitation from which she suffered. " I was
so poorly that I sent for him, and he quite
startled me : his manner was so strange and
abrupt. I'm sure he's being worried over
something."

'' Studies too hard," said Salis quietly.
He will do it, and advice is of no avail.
Mrs. Milt tells me that he sits up at night.
Doctors are like clergymen, I'm afraid, Mrs.
Berens : they are fond of teaching and
curing other people, but they neglect themselves."


There, I hope you will give him a good
talking to, Mr. Salis," said the widow, rising
to go ; " for I should really not like to ask
him to see me again until he is better. He
seemed to be so wild and eccentric : he quite
startled me."

'just for the sake of saying something,
Mary," said the curate as soon as they were
alone ; and, in answer to Mary's inquiring
eyes, *' Horace has. made up his mind to distinguish
himself for Leo's sake, and, height !
my dear, things seem to be very awkward,
and I don't know how to set them rio-ht."

AN INTERRUPTION.

Other people, too, noticed the doctors
strangely intent manner, as he went hurriedly
about among his patients every morning,,
and then returned to his study to pore over
sundry manuscript notes and refer to certain
books.

Mrs. Milt had to almost insist upon his
taking his meals, for on two occasions his
dinner had gone out untasted, and she had
found him sitting, with his head resting upon
his hands, deep in thought.

He started upon being spoken to, and
seemed once more himself ; but as soon as he
was alone again, he relapsed into another fit
of abstraction.

A few more days passed, and his task was
telling upon him terribly ; but he persevered,
for each night he felt that he was getting
nearer to success.

"I shall succeed," he said to himself, with
a wild excitability of manner that was start-line
; but he was alone when he said these
words, and no one heard them.

Ain't it a very long experiment, doctor ? "
said Forelock, one night, looking at the
doctor seriously, and rubbing his cheek slowly.

'* Yes. It is taking; me long-er than I
thought, but I shall soon finish now."

Glad o' that," said the old man drily ;
"because a pitcher as goes too often to the
well, doctor, gets broke at last."

*' What do you mean ? "

*' Naught, only we might be found out."

Nonsense ! " said the doctor uneasily.
Nobody is likely to be about except any
person should be ill, and I know exactly who
is likely to want the doctor by night."

*' Ah, well, let's be careful, doctor, for it
would be awkward for both if we was to be
found out."

Pish ! Who would find us out, man ?"

"Well, say parson."

Absurd ! He is in bed, and sound
asleep. There, take your glass ; I want to
begin."

"Nay," said the old man, looking at the
rich liqueur North poured out for him, " I
don't think I'll have no drop to-night."

Nonsense, man ! " said North, holding
out the glass, at which the old man gazed
longingly. But he shook his head and thrust
it away.

*' Nay, doctor ; I'm going to keep watch
to-night."

Keep watch, man ? " said North, who
seemed stao^o-ered at this determination.

"Yes, doctor, Fm going to keep watch. I
can't afford to have aught go wrong, if you
can. You get on with your work, and I'll be
on the look-out."

"Here?"

*' Nay, nay. I'll hang about outside. '

"Yes, do," said North, who seemed relieved
; and he turned down the lamp to let
Forelock out.

I shall give three taps on the door,
doctor, when I come back," whispered the
old man. " You go on just as if I was here ;
but when I tap, you turn down the light
again, and let me in. Don't repose I shall see
anybody, but I must take care."

"Yes, do," said North hurriedly ; and, as
the old man passed out, he closed the door
after him and made it fast.

"It would have been like checking my
experiment now I am so near success," he said
to himself, as, now quite alone, he once more
turned up the shaded lamp, when the warm
yellow glow shone out full upon the recumbent
figure, carefully draped with the great white
sheet.

Horace North stood bending over the
subject of his ghastly experiment, the remains
of Luke Candlish lying apparently unchanged,
and as if decay had been completely
arrested.

There was a strange odour of chemicals in
the place, and, as the doctor removed the
cloth, it was to uncover, just as they had
been left on the previous night, a powerful

galvanic battery, syringes, and other surgical
paraphernalia.

For the next hour the doctor continued
his labours, feeling more and more assured
that he should triumph ; and, as he toiled on,
he talked rapidly to himself of the apparently
complete arrest of decay, and the perfectly
calm manner in which his subject lay, ait
were, placidly waiting for the awakening
which North felt, in his excitement, absolutely
sure would come.

'rit is so near now that I have but to
vitalise and obtain positive proof that, when
carried to its full extent, I have performed
what is almost a miracle, and proved that
what I worked out in theory is possible in
practice."

He stood gazing down at the calm, cold
face, with its closed eyes, hesitating, not from
the horror that had half paralysed him before,
but from dread lest, now he had gone so far
that he could apply his final test, he should be
disappointed.

His head burned, his pulses throbbed
heavily, and his hesitation increased.

Rousing himself at last, he laid his hand
upon the icy-cold forehead before him, the
contact sending a chill through his frame ; but
he did not notice it.

'why do I stop?" he said. "It only
wants this. I am alone, and no better opportunity
could come. Oh, if I had but the-aiding
hand of that old savant, how easy it
would be ! "

This brought back the scene in the theatre
the lecture, the applause ; and his heart
beat more rapidly in anticipation of his grand
triumph when he could demonstrate this, the
greatest surgical feat that had ever been
performed.

'rand yet I hesitate," he exclaimed excitedly
; " hesitate when I have but to plunge
boldly to succeed."

And I will," he said firmly, after a
pause.

The scene which followed was weird and
horrible, had there been an onlooker ; to
North it had all the fascination of an intense
scientific experiment. For he had arrived
at the pitch when, according to his theory,.

he had but to make the warm livings blood
pass from his own veins, as in a case of transfusion,
to prove that his studies bore the fruit
of success.

The preliminaries were all arranged, and,
with a sigh of satisfaction, North took a
bright, keen lancet from its case, but only tolet
it fall back, starting violently, for he was,
as it were, snatched back from his scientific
dream by a faint rap upon the door of the
great vault, and this was followed directly after
by two more.

North rapidly replaced the great sheet,
and turned down the light before going softly
to the entry.

*' Well ? " he said harshly ; " returned ? "

*' Hist ! " whispered the old sexton. " Out
here ! "

He caught the doctor's hand and drew
him out from the entry of the vault to stand
within the iron railings.

Why have "

'' Hist ! " whispered the old man again.
^' Gome with me."

North hesitated again, but yielded to hi
companion and followed him softly right round
the church to the belfry door, which yielded
to the old man's touch.

AYhat does this mean ? " said the doctor
angrily. *' Why have you brought me
here ? "

^' Come and see," whispered the old man
so earnestly that North hesitated no longer,
but followed him wonderingly into the church,
and along the matting-covered aisle, to the
old oak screen, where Forelock paused and
caught his arm.

Some one watching ? " whispered North,
as they stood together in the darkness; "in
yonder ? "

For the old man had indicated the vestry
door with his outstretched hand.

It seemed strange, for a minute before
they had been beside the outer door of the
vestry, and now he had been brought in to
stand by the inner door in the chancel.

"You're wanted there," whispered More-dock
— " yonder ! "

*' Watchers?"

You're wanted there, doctor," whispered
the old man. " Go in and see."

The silence was painful in the extreme,
:as North stood wondering there, but the
next moment, feeling attracted by he knew
not what desire to see who was within there
face to face, he took a couple of steps forward
to the old oak door, when a faint whispering
seemed to come from the other side, followed
by a low cough, which sent the blood surging
to his brain.

There was no hesitation now, for, half-mad
with excitement and the strange passion
that seemed for the moment to stifle him, he
seized the great latch, which snapped loudly
as he threw it up, and strode into the little
-stone-walled room.

tally's appeal.

■** Nay ! nay ! nay ! I know what you want.
There, give me my pipe," said Forelock,
settling himself down in his big-armed
Windsor chair.

Yes, granada, dear," cried Dally, bustling
about and fetching the clay pipe with a
clean white bowl, consequent upon its having
been thoroughly burned in the fire before
it was stood up in the corner on the hob.
^* There's your pipe, dear, and there's your
tobacco box. Oh, how heavy it is ! "

It ain't heavy with 'banco, lass. Should
ha' thought a girl as I've brought up, as I've
brought up you ever since your mother and

father died, would have give her poor old
gaffer a pinch o' 'banco now and agen."

And so I will, gran fa, dear," cried
Dally, taking the lid off the heavy leaden
pot. " Next time I go into town I'll bring
you a beautiful packet of the best. Let me
fill your pipe, dear, same as I used to."

Ay, you was a good little gel then,"
said Forelock, as he watched the brown,
plump fingers busily charging the bowl,
while a grim smile puckered his face, and
he lay back with a satisfied air.

So I am now, granada, dear."

Nay ; you've come to bother your poor
old granada about money for silk dresses, and
feathers, and gloves. I know."

''No, you don't, granada, dear," cried Dally*
There, now it's nice and full."

'you've jammed it in too tight."

No, I haven't, granada. I know exactly
how you like it. There ! hold still while
I fetch you a light. There ! there, then.
Now pull. Don't you remember how you
used to puff the smoke in my face and make
me cough ? "

Ay ; and I 'member how you tried to
smoke my pipe, and how sick it made you."

"Yes, I remember," said Dally, clapping
her hands. *'Ah! how happy I used to
be then with you, granada ! Do you remember
how you used to take me to the church ? "

Ay," grunted the old man, puffing away,
with a dreamy look in his face.

And how you used to pretend to bury
yourself in the graves when you were 
so as to frio-ten me ? "

Ah ! " granted Forelock.

Then there was that old skull, granada,
that I had to play with. What became of
that skull?"

"Up in the cupboard in your old bedroom,"
grunted Forelock.

How happy 1 used to be then ! " sighed
Dally, stroking a thin wisp off her grandfather's
hideous old forehead.

"Ah, you was a good little gel then,
and thought about your poor old granada,
and didn't come bothering him for money."

Yes, I did, granada — for sureties," said
Dally.

VOL. II. K

Ay ; but I wouldn't give you none,

gel."

*' Yes, you did sometimes, granada ; and

so you would now to buy some nice things

a pretty bonnet — if I asked you."

Nay, I wouldn't. And I knew it. You've
come a-purpose to worry me out of some
money."

No, I haven't, granada."

Ay, but you have. I know. Look here,
how's that going on ? If it's going to be
my teddy, you shall have as much as you
want ; but not without. Is he courting of
you ^

'' No, granada."

"Whaaart?"

'only sometimes, granada; and that's
what made me come to you."

You — you haven't come for the brass ? "

"No, granada. I want you to help me,
for I'm such a miserable little girl."

** What about ? — what about ? " cried the
old man, smoking furiously, and staring with
a peculiarly angry look at the girl.

I wanted to tell you, granada," cried

Dally. pumping herself down at the old
man's feet, and laying her rosy cheek upon
his corduroy-covered knee, stained with the
clay from many a m-ave. " It's all such a
muddle."

-^Yhat is?— what is?"

•■'Why, everything' cried Dally, with a
petulant twitch ; " but he's not going to play
with me. He's told me many a time that
he'd marry me, and make me Lady Candlish ;
and he shall, shan't he, granada ? "

'•' Ay, that he shall," cried the old man,
patting Daily's curly head. 'that's spirit,
that is. You keep him to it. But what's alla
muddle ? "

Why, everything, gran'fa,'' cried Dally,
bursting into tears, and speaking in an
excited, passionate way. "'' But he shall
marry me : and you'll help me make him,
won't you, granada ? "

"ray, that I will, my pretty. That's the
way. Don't you be bet."

''I won't; and I won't have him come
^^ourtino- Leo Salis."

'• Nay, you won't," said the old man,

K 2

smoking away as he patted the fierce little
creature's head.

He said it was all nonsense, and I
believed him because he was so fond of me ;
but he courts her, too."

Nay, does he, Dally ? "

*' Yes, granada ; and he shan't. He shall
marry me. If he don't, I'll kill him ! "

'* So you shall, my pretty," chuckled the
old man ; " and I'll bury him. And then the
doctor "

He checked himself and chuckled again.

What's the use of the doctor when he's
dead ? " cried Dally pettishly, as she tugged
angrily at a fold of the old man's trousers.
And Doctor North's a fool ! "

'nay ! nay ! nay ! Doctor's a very clever
man. Dally."

He isn't ; he's a fool, granada ! "

"Tut, tut! Shoo, shoo!"

I say he is, or he wouldn't be courting
and making love to Miss Leo."

''Do he, Dally ?— do he?"

Why, yes, granada, of course he does ;
and she's carrying on all the time with Tom.

Oh, how I do hate her ! Wish he'd let her
die ! "

Ay, would ha' been a good job for
everybody — and for me, Dally. But doctor
don't know ? "

Know ? Of course not. He's too
stupid. He's a fool ! "

Nay, he's not a fool," said the old man,
smoking rapidly. "Doctors head's screwed
on right way. He don't know, or "

Or what, granada — or what ? "

He ! he ! he ! " chuckled the old man,
as Dally screwed herself round and gazed
eagerly in his face. " Here, gently, gently !
Don't stick your little claws into my legs like
that, pussy."

*' But what, granada, what ? — what would
the doctor do ? "

'' Give him a nasty dose, I should say
Dally," chuckled the old man. " Doctor
don't know — he ain't no fool. Does Miss
Leo know young squire courts you ? "

I don't know," cried Dally thoughtfully.



She be a bad 'un," grunted the old man.

'^ She's a wretch, and I hate her I Oh, I
wish master was the doctor instead of the
parson ! "

'' Why, Dally, my lass ? " said the old
man, whose lips were drawn open to a terrible
extension — a savage grin — as if lie gloried in
the display of fierce vindictive spite which
the girl displayed.

'' I'd get something out of the surgery
and poison her ! "

"Nay, nay, Dally, that wouldn't do," he
chuckled. '* They'd find you out and hang
you."

I wouldn't care if I killed her first," said
Dally fiercely. *' She shouldn't have him."

'* What— the doctor?"

No. Don't be so stupid. You know —
Tom."

Ah, well, wait a bit. Essay the things
'11 come right. Wait till doctor finds it out ,*:
he'll half kill Tom Candlish, same as Parson
Salis did when squire was after Miss Leo."

** Did he ? Oh, I know. It was when
master's knuckles was all cut."

*•' That's right, Dally. I was in the wood
and see it all, but I never said a word till
now. And don't you. I thought it was allover
between young Tom and pretty Miss
up at the Rectory."

'' But it isn't all over, granada, and I
Avon't have it. They shan't meet. I'll tear
her eyes out first. Nice one she is to lecture
me !

'• You wait till doctor finds it out, if he's
courting Leo Salis. Hell half kill Tom
Candlish."

"But I don't want him half killed," cried
Dally. '•' Yes I do ; it'll bring him to his
senses, and when he's ill I can ^o and drive
him a bit of mv mind."

Ah, to be sure ; so you can, my pretty."

I'll let him know. He shall marry me,
that he shall."

*' Ay, so he shall, Dally."

And you'll help me, granada ? "

Of course I will, my pretty."

*' Then I'll tell you what I came to say."

** Wasn't it for money, then 1 "

Money ? No. A girl with a face like
mine don't want money, and I shall have
plenty when I'm up at the Hall."

Toe be sure, Dally. Toe be sure. Ay,
but you are a clever gel ! "

"Then, look here, granada, you'll help me
to make doctor give Tom Candlish a big-thrashing."


"Ay, if I can. I should like it. He
threatened me wi' his whip t'other day
'cause I said the sheep mustn't come in th'
churchyard. Parson May found fault, and
Squire card me an old mummy, and said
he'd put in pigs if he liked. I'd like to see
doctor mumming him, same as he does his
brother — eh ; help you, lass ? "

"Yes; but it wasn't the doctor, it was
master made a mummy of Squire Tom.
You're mixing 'em up."

"Ay, I repose I am. Dally; but I'm not
very old yet."

Then you'll help me, granada ? "

"Will it help you to get to be my lady
at the Hall ? " said the old man dubiously.

Of course, granada, or I wouldn't do it,"

said the sir, who had wrenched herself round,
kneeling the old man's feet, and restorer
elbows on his knees, her little dimpled chin
upon her hands.

What do you want me to do, then ? "

''I want you to help me serve them
out'

Ay, and how ? "

I want doctor to find out that Leo Salis
is a down bad one."

"Ay, she is, my lass; and not good
enough for him."

'sand I want the doctor to beat Tom
Candlish and stop him from going after Leo
Salis, and then he'd come altogether to me."

Ay, that's right. Dally ; that's right. I
want to see thee my teddy up at the Hall."

"Then, look here: you take the doctor
some night, and show him when Leo — ugh !
how I hate the minx ! — is alone with mv
Tom."

Ay, but how, lass, how ? "

I'll tell you, granada," whispered Dally
vindictively. *' Master ordered Squire Tom
never to come to the Eectory again."

"Ay."

'' So he gave me notes to take to Mis
Leo."

*rand you was fool enough to take
em J

"Yes. granada ; but that's how it began
with me, and he soon told me he didn't care
for her, and that he only wrote to Leo so as to
make her send me out with notes to him, so
that we could court."

Oh ! He's a nice 'un," growled More-dock.
" He alius was. Well ? "

'rand now Tom's fooling me and meets
Leo, and they court, and I dare say they laugh
at me," cried Dally vindictively.

I essay ; but you'll make him marry
you, Dally."

"I will, granada. Now listen: because
Tom can't come to the Eectory, and Leo can't
go to him because master watches her, they
meet of a night."

'' Nay. Tchah ! "

They do, granada."

*' What ? Does he come to the Rectory o^
nights ? "

No. She waits till every one's asleep,
and then she goes to him."

*' Nay, do she, lass ? " cried the old man.

'' Yes, granada. She gets out of her bedroom
window, and down on to the summerhouse,
and then o-oes."

'•' How do you know ? "

Because I've seen her out of my window,
granada, night after night ; and then lie
runs down the green path to the meadows,
and "

Meets him there ? "

*'No,'" said Dally, shaking her head.

Where does she go, then ? "

Can't you guess, granada ? "

Nay. Yes. Up to the Hall"

*' Where the servants would find it out ?
No ; they're too cunning for that."

Where then ? " cried the old man, chuckling,
and evidently enjoying it all.

Why, to a place where nobody would go
of a night — where it would all be quiet and
still, and people would be afraid to walk for
fear of seeing ghosts. Where would that be,
granada ? "

Old Forelock's jaw dropped, and be
Grazed down at his grandchild in a startled
way.

'' Not to the old morsleni ? " he whispered,
in an awe-stricken tone.

Pooh ! No ; but next door to it."

*' Not to my church, gel ? "

*^ Not quite, grau'fa ; but to the vestry."

'' What ? "

*' Yes, granada," whispered Dally excitedly.
'' Leo Salis gets out of the window and goes
straight to the vestry, and meets Tom Candles
there night after night."

And she gets parson's keys, and goes in
at the south door, and through the porch, and
'long the south aisle, and then across to the
chancel ? "

Yes, granada, with a great veil all over
her head ; but how did you know ? "

AVliy, you're telling me, ain't you?" said
the old man testily, as he recalled the draped
head he had seen hastily gliding above the
pews. " And Squire Tom ? "

He foes across the meadows and over

the churchyard wall, and in at the vestry door
by the big vault."

"Does he, though ? " said Forelock, with
his jaw dropped still more ; '' and how does he
get the keys ? — of course, he's churchwarden !
Hah ! nice game in my church ! Tchah ! " he
cried, after a pause. " Stuff ! You dreamt
it."

*'0h, no, I didn't," said Dally. ''I
watched her, and saw her go. And another
night I watched and followed, and I saw a
man go up to the Candlish vault."

"Eh! You saw that?" cried the old
man, catching the girl's arm.

She nodded.

'' Who was it, eh ? Not me ? "

You ? No, gran fa ! "

Nor the doctor ? "

"The doctor? No! It was my Tom
Candlish ! "

'' Are you sure, gel ? "

"I am now, granada ; I wasn't then. I
half thought it was the doctor, and I did hope
it was him. It was so dark, I couldn't quite

be sure ; and he stopped by the gate in the
iron railings and looked about so that I aren't
go and make sure."

Phew ! " whistled the old man, dropping
his pipe and wiping his brow as the fragile
stem broke into atoms. ^' And you there,
Dally, watching ? "

Yes, granada; for I was, oh, so jealous ! "

'rand you're not sure now ? "

"Yes I am, granada; for I made sure."

You went again — in the middle of the
nio;ht ? "

Yes, granada. I got out of my bedroom
window next time and went first."

'^ And you saw them go. Did you
see ? "

The old man stopped short.

"No, I didn't see much, granada; but I
heard. I went into the church."

How did you o^et in ? "

Through one of the lead windows, as I've
often climbed through when I was a little girl ;
and then went into the vestry and up the
screw stairs, and into the little place in the
loft."

*' How did you get the key ? "

How did I get the key ? Why, I came
and took it from here."

You jade."

And you came and caught me."

Did you take anything else ? "

No, granada, of course not," cried the girl.
'•' I was obliged to do it. Then I waited till I
could just see Leo Salis come in along the
church, and she passed under me and went
into the vestry."

*' Sure ? "

'sure? Of course I am; and then I
stole down the screw stairs and waited by
the door till I heard him come in from the
churchyard."

'* And me about there in the moslem all
the time ! " muttered Forelock. " Well,"
he added aloud, " was it young Squire
Tom ? "

Yes, granada ; it was him, safe enough,
and it was Leo Salis, and she scolded him for
being so late, and they stopped together forever
so long; him smoking."

Smoking ? "

Yes ; I heard him strike a match, and I
could smell it — a wretch ! "

'' And I thought it was the parson," said
Forelock, chuckling.

"They stayed there two hours, grana ;
and they go regular, and I had to wait till
they'd gone before I could go back*'

And weren't you afraid. Dally ? " said
the old man with a grin.

"afraid What of?" said the girl. *' I
wasn't afraid, but I felt as if I could have
killed them both." '

Ay, you must, my pretty. And now
what do you mean me to do ? "

"Do ? Take the doctor there, and let him
find Leo out, and beat Tom. It'll stop it all,
and serve him right. You will, won't you,
granada ? "

"Ay, lass, I will."

You good old, darling old granada ; and —
look — look ! ''

The old man's eyes caught sight of a face
at the lattice window at the same moment ;
and almost before she had spoken, Forelock
had caught up the heavy leaden tobacco jar.

and hurled it with so good an aim that it
went out through the diamond panes with a
loud crash.

Daily stood in the fire-fit room half
paralysed ; but the old man had hobbled to
the door, and gazed out in the darkness fora
few moments, listening to the sound of
retreating feet.

Who was it, granada ? " whispered Dally.

Well, I ain't quite sure," said the old
man with asperity ; " but I should say it was
that Joe Hector."

And he heard all I said ? "

Nay, I shouldn't think he did ; but I
just give him warning if he comes spying
and listening about my place, he'll get it with
the addict or the spade."

I don't think he came to spy, granada."

Then it was after you, and I won't have
it.

Xever mind him, granada," said Dally,
with quiet confidence ; " even if he did hear,
I can silence him."

No courting', for I won't have it."

Courtier with him ! " cried Dally scorn-vol.

II. L

fully. " Don't be afraid that I shall do that,
granada ! But you'll tell doctor ? '*

*' Don't you be afraid, my gel."

And when ? "

"First chance I have," said the old man
grimly ; and then to himself : " He shan't
call me a mummy for naught."

Good night, granada."

"Good night, my teddy," cried the old
man, chuckling. "Don't you be sheered.
I'll do it, and perhaps to-night."

Forelock KEEPS HIS WORD.

Old Moreclock kept his word, for after leaving
North alone to carry out his experiment, he
went round the okl church, proceeding
cautiously from tombstone to tombstone, his
red, watery eyes twinkling with excitement,
till he reached the belfry door.

This yielded to the key he always carried,
deep down in his old coat pocket, and passing
through into the lower part of the tower,
he continued his way by the low, arched
doorway to the font.

Here he paused and listened, but all was
perfectly still, and, running his hand along
the tops of the pews, he went slowly on till
he reached the screen, where he hesitated for

L 2

a few moments, and then uttering a low
chuckle, that sounded like that of a cuckoo
over a caterpillar feast, he turned aside,
mounted the stairs, and seated himself in
the pulpit, where he made himself comfortable
with the big purple velvet cushion, and
waited patiently for what was to come.

He had not to wait long, for as he sat,
with his arms resting on the front of the
oaken erection, his ears twitching, a familiar
sound in the church porch warned him that
some one was at hand.

Drawing in his breath he strained his
eyes, and before long he had the satisfaction
of seeing the matter-of-fact elucidation of the
mystery which had shaken his well-hardened
nerves, for though much less plainly seen,
and from a different point of view, there
was the draped head which had alarmed
him passing before the pulpit, round into
the chancel, and into the vestry, whose latch
gave a slight click.

Yes," he muttered ; " doctor shall find
you, and to-night, my lady. You don't
stand between her and her rights."

He chuckled in anticipation of the scene
that was to come, and, slowly descending
from the pulpit, followed the figure till he
was pretty close to the chancel door, but
inside the rectory pew, over whose side he
could listen as he knelt on the cushion of
one of the seats, but c[uite ready to bob
down into sheltering darkness should there
be a risk of beings seen.

Aorain he had not loco to wait, for as he
listened he heard the sound of a key in the
outer door, the entering of some one, the
withdrawal of the key, its insertion on the
vestry side, and the locking; of the door,
followed by a low murmuring of voices.

"Pretty doves !" muttered the old sexton.
'•'Coo away, sweet, soft critters! Mummy,
am I, Squire Tom? Hideous old figure, am
I, Miss Leo ? Oh, you needn't deny it.
You've told my Dally I was, scores of times.
All right. He ! he ! he ! Chilly place to
make love. Essay you'll catch colds, so
I'll bring' the doctor ! "

He kept his word, and North had his
hand upon the latch, while Forelock gleefully

rubbed bis bands in anticipation of a
scene that should relieve some of the tedium
of bis existence, and advance bis grandchild's
ends, but quietly slipped away bone.

"I'd like to see it," be said; "but there
may be trouble, and I'm best away."

As if fate bad determined that Horace
North should be fully enlightened as to the
character of the woman be worshipped, it
so happened that as the door was thrown
open, Tom Candles was striking a flaming
fusee.

Tbe sharp crick — crick — crack of the explosive
end overcame the sound made by the
latch, and the match burst into a reddish
blue flame, illuminating the whole place, for
the young squire for the moment was too
much taken aback to cast it down.

North uttered a hoarse groan as be gazed
at the group before him : Tom Candles
seated in the curate's chair by the oaken
table, and Leo upon bis knee with her arm
about bis neck, and her head resting upon
bis shoulder, while seen by the lurid light
there appeared to be a couple of clergymen,

sone in black, the other in white, standing
behind them in the background, as if to
give sanction to their proceedings by performing
some holy rite.

The devil ! " shouted Candlish, as Leo
leaped from his lap, and crouched away in
one corner of the vestry, her shame concealed
by the sudden darkness that fell as Tom
Candlish cast down the match.

You scoundrel ! " cried North, as, furious
With rage, he dashed at the man whom he
felfc to have been the cause of his agonising
pang.

For a moment he had turned towards
where he had seen Leo shrink away, his
eyes flashing as if he could have withered
the wretched creature whom he had believed
to be all that was good and true, but who,
in spite of his passion for her, seemed now
to be too base to be worthy even of a
word.

He could not crush her. He could not
assail her with the bitterness of the words
which rushed to his lips. The veil had
fallen from his eyes, and in that dire

moment, as he saw her hanging upon the
neck of the brutal, coarse young squire, his
doting love turned to a savage hate.

But he could not crush her ; he could
not strike her even with his contempt ; buta
fierce laugh escaped his throat as he felt
how good and kind fate had been to him
in giving him the opportunity for taking
ample revenge.

And how sweet it seemed as he sprang in
the dusk at Tom Candlish.

Fate was kind to him again for the
moment, for, as if instinctively, North's
hands caught the sturdy young giant in his
fierce grip, and for a few moments they
swayed here and there, striking against the
wall, the simple furniture of the place,
crashing against the closet where the registers
were kept, and tearing down the surplice
and gown to trample them on the
floor.

'rare you mad, doctor?" panted Tom
Candlish.

Yes," came hissing through the doctor's
teeth.

*' Don't be a cursed fool. Recollect where
you are."

Recollect where I am ! " cried North
with a bitter laugh. "You say that to me,
you sacrilegious hound ! "

They swayed here and there again, North
striving" hard to o-et a hand free to strike a
blow, but in vain ; and the struggle was one
savage wrestle, in which the weaker man
seemed to be made the ec[ual of the stronger
by the passion in his breast.

Meanwhile Leo Salis, trembling in every
limb, crouched in the dark far corner of the
vestry, and half lay huddled up, listening
to the fierce struggle too much unnerved to
move.

At last, though, the desire to escape — to
make her way home — mastered all else, and
she made for the nearest point of exit — the
door into the churchyard ; but though she
passed her hand over it again and again, the
key was not there. Tom Candlish had it in
his pocket and he was unable to set her
free.

She tried to creep past the contending

couple to the chancel door, but as she strove
for it, Tom Candlish was driven against
her, nearly fell, and uttered a savage curse,
which drowned her cry of agony, for he had
crushed her delicate hand beneath his heel.

She shrank back into the corner again,
sobbing with fear; but as the struofo-je continued
she nerved herself once more, and
this time rose to her feet and tried the other
way, just as Tom Candlish was gaining
the mastery, and swung North round so
savagely that he struck the wretched girl,
and drove her heavily against the wall.

Leo uttered a hoarse gasp, and stretched
out her hands to save herself, when her left
touched the oaken door leading into the
chancel.

This revived her just as her feelings were
overcoming her and she was turning faint.

With a quick motion she caught the latch,
dragged it up, passed through the opening,
and, closing the heavy oaken door, sped
along the chancel and south aisle to the
big door, unlatched it, and, hardly knowing
what she did, passed into the porch.

and locked the door Before running down
to the lvcli-2:ate, round to the meadows, and
then breathlessly back to the Rectory garden.

Safe ! " she panted ; " safe ! " as she
reached the rustic summer-house, and climbed
rapidly up to gain her room, and, after
softly closing the casement, sink down sobbing
on the floor, bathed in perspiration, and
with her breath coming in sobs. " That idiot
Avill not dare to speak. I hope Tom will
half kill him. What an escape ! But no
one will know."

At this thought she breathed more freely,
in happy ignorance of the fact that Dally
was just closing her window, gleefully hoping
that there had been a scene.

That scene was over now, for as the biog
south door closed on Leo the struo-crle was
at its fiercest, and Tom Candlish was getting
the worst of the encounter"'

Loose my throat, North ! " he cried.
'•' So cursedly ud gentlemanly."

"les; I am dealing with a scoundrel,
whom Hartley Salis thrashed, and Ll thrash
YOU too. you door I "

As he spoke, he dealt with his now freed
hand a fierce blow right between Tom Candles's
eyes, making him stagger back.

But the triumph was momentary, for,
rendered savage by the pain, the young
squire flung himself upon his adversary,
and bore him back as a jingling of a falling
key was heard. The wrestling grew wilder
and fiercer, and then Horace North felt as
if his legs were suddenly enmeshed. He
strove to free them, but in vain ; and before
he could recover the ground he had lost he
was flung heavily, his head coming with a
crash upon the stone floor, just where the
matting did not cover it, and he lay without
motion, and made no sound.

*' Curse him for a fool ! Let him lie there
till he comes to," panted Tom Candlish.
Where's the key ? What a fool ! I heard
it fall as we struggled. Matches ? They
went too, and if they didn't I aren't light
one.

He felt his way to the chancel door, butin
his confusion he could not open it, as Leo
had made it fast.

'' She's got away home by now," muttered
Candlish. "Where's my hat? All right;
I put it on the window-ledge. Hah ! — yes,
that will do."

He stepped up on the oaken chest beneath
the long, narrow window, opened the iron-framed
casement, and, squeezing himself
through, stood in a bent attitude, holdings on
for a few moments, and then leaped down
into the black darkness.

A dull thud as he came down on the
gravel, a crushing blow, followed by another
rapidly given ; a heavy groan, and then
silence.

A minute later a rustling sound as of
some one stealing away.

WHAT HAVE I DONE ?

*' Where am I ? "

No answer. All was pitchy dark, but a
pleasant, cool air fanned the speaker's burning
brow.

Forelock ! Are you asleep ? The light's
out. AVhat's the matter ? What's this cloth
about my legs ? "

There was a rustling sound as Horace
North rose to his feet, dragged a fallen surplice
from his feet, and began to feel about
him in a confused way.

But that was a wall, not the ends of
coffins ; that was an overturned table, not
the stone slab with its hideous burden ; and
that

''Oh!"

Horace North reeled against the \Yall, and
rested there as he uttered that piteous groan ;
for, like a flash of lightning, the ray of
memory had shot into his darkened brain, and
he saw once more the wretched idol he had
Worshipped gazing wildly at him with starting-eyes
— she, the woman he had set upon a
pinnacle, grovelling before him in her shame !
The moment before, the lady of his frank,
honest love ; the next moment revealed to
him as low in mind, as degraded as some
miserable rustic wench, ready to accept the
kisses of the first man who called her
'•' dear I "

Am I going mad ? " he groaned. '*' Poor
Salis ! Poor Mary Salis ! They must never
know. And poor me ! Fool ! blind idiot !
But I loved her," he moaned ; '' and T thought
her so sweet and pure and true — a woman
for whom I would have shed my heart's

best blood — a woman for whom 1 Pah !

I must not stand puling here ! Blood ? Yes,
blood ! The brute ! He's strong as a horse."

He took out a pocket-handkerchief,

doubled it, and roughly bandaged his head ;
for it was bleeding from a cut at the back.

** Clear my brain," he muttered ; *' I must
not stand here. That place left open ! Is
Forelock there ? "

He felt his way to the door ; and, as he
stepped cautiously along, his foot kicked
against something which jingled on the tiled
floor.

He felt about, touched the surplice which
had been dragged down and entangled his
legs ; and, as he snatched it away, the key
jingled once more, and he caught it up.

He opened and locked the door after
he had passed out, breathing more freely
as he stood in the cool, dark night.

'' Forelock ! " he whispered. *' Are you
there ? "

There was no reply, but he did not stir ;
for a curious feeling of confusion attacked
him once more, and he put his hand to his
head to try and master his thoughts.

** Yes," he muttered ; " of course I must
go and close that place up. Even if I go
mad, that must not be known."

He took a few steps instinctively towards
the vault, and fell over something in the
path, contriving, however, to save himself,
so that he only came down upon his hands
and knees.

The shock acted like a spell, and brought
back his wandering mind.

'' Who's this ? " he muttered. '* More-dock
? "

He passed his hands rapidly about the
body before him, lying fiat upon its back.

Tom Candlish ! " he ejaculated, as his
hands came in contact, the one with a
curiously-shaped breast-pin the young squire
wore, the other with the bunch of charms
and the locket he wore on his chain.

Good heavens ! What have I done ?
The man is dead ! "

North started to his feet, trying hard to
collect his wandering ideas, for he was at
sea once more. He could not comprehend
how Tom Candlish had contrived to get there,
till he recalled the window, and at the same
time recollected that he had struck at him
ao;ain and aojain with all his miojht.

VOL. n. M

Have I killed him ? " he muttered ; and,
suffering still from the blow upon his head,
his mental faculties seemed to be quite off
their balance. . The calm medical man, with
his accurate judgment, was no longer there;
but one full of wild excitement — one moment
bubbling over with delirious joy at
having triumphed over his enemy, of whom
he had been madly jealous ; the next, ready to
shrink and tremble at the deed he had done.

He did not — he could not — pause to calculate
how it had happened, beyond feeling
that he must have beaten his enemy horribly,
till he had in his last efforts struck him
down, and then crawled out from the window
to fall and die. He could not arrange all
this in an orderly manner, for he was now
seized with a frantic horror of discovery ;
and the question filled his mind, what was
he — a murderer — to do ?

Only one idea occurred to him, and that
was the natural one that occurs to the most
ignorant under the circumstances : he had
slain this man, and the penalty was death
for death. He did not know that he wanted

to live, the shock had been too horrible that
night ; but he must act — he must do something
; and, yielding entirely to his impulses,
he bent down, and, with a wonderful effort
of nervous force, raised the fallen man, and
stood thinking for a few moments.

Impulse moved him then ; and, without
further hesitation, he bore the body down
the steps to the door of the mausoleum.

The door yielded to his pressure, and he
stepped in with his load, the darkness proving
no hindrance to him, for he knew the place
so well that he could come and go without
touching the sides for guidance.

He stood right in the middle of the place
for a few moments, thinking ; one brother
hanging over his left shoulder, the other
lying motionless upon that cold stone slab,
as he had lain all through the series of
experiments which had been tried.

"It is fate," he muttered, as he softly
lowered his burden down upon the sawdust-covered
floor, the brothers side by side, save
that the younger was lower — nearer to his
mother earth.

M 2

Then, in a quick, business-like way, North
stepped to the door, passed through, and
locked it, and then served the iron gate in
the railings the same.

I must fetch my instruments away some
day," he muttered — " if I stay. No one will
seek him there. He will be supposed to have
fled from me. But Forelock ?

'^ Forelock can be trusted ; I can silence
him," he said grimly. " He knew who was
there."

North stood thinking for a few minutes
in the churchyard, half startled, but feeling
a certain relief as well as pleasure in the
fact that his rival was removed from his
path.

Then that word '* rival " seemed to strike
him a mental blow, for it brought up to his
confused intellect why it was that he and
Tom Candlish had been rivals ; and at this
thought he once again saw Leo, the woman
he had loved, gazing wildly in his face ; and,
with a low moan, he staggered, more than
walked, from the churchyard, making instinctively
for home ; but as he reached the

sexton's cottage, the faint light therein attracted
him, and, feeling dizzy, he put his
hand to his head, to find that it was bleeding
freely.

As he hesitated whether to go in or hurry
on, the door, which had been ajar, opened
more widely, and a great, claw-like hand was
thrust out, and he was guided to the big
Windsor chair.

Hurt, doctor ? All over blood ? Don't
say you didn't dress him down."

North made no answer, for the low ceiled
room seemed sailing round as he turned his
ghastly face and gazed in the speaker's
eyes.

A Terrible ACCIDENT.

"My turn now' said Forelock, with a low
chuckle. 'times as he's o;iven me doses.
He, he, he ! I can give him one now."

The old sexton took a key from his vest,
and opened a curious old oaken corner cupboard,
upon whose shelves were ranged a
variety of objects which gleamed out from
their prison, and seemed to suggest that
they had not been honestly come by. The
most prominent object, however, was a square,
black schnapps bottle, with a footless glass
turned upside down beside it.

There, doctor," chuckled the old man,
as he made the cork squeak and the liquid
gurgle when he poured some out ; " that ain't

the same physic as you give me, but it's real
line, and was sent down to me by a London
gent as I've dealt with many a time."

North did not hesitate, but drank the
dram of strong brandy at a gules.

TLiat puts life into you, don't it, doctor,
eh ? Better now ? "

Hah ! " sighed North, returning the glass,
and leaning back in the chair. '' No, no ;
that will do."

The stimulus did more than carry oJS* the
sensation of fainting, it gave back the power
to think consistently ; and North sat up as if
considering what he should do next.

''He's knocked you about a bit, doctor,"
said Forelock, breaking in upon his musings.

Eh ? Yes ; we had a sharp struggle,"
said North, starting.

Sent him home like a cur with his tail
between his legs, haven't you, doctor ? "

North shuddered and caught Forelock's
arm.

"How did you know that — that he was
there ? "

Oh, I found' it out I " said the old man

evasively. " I've seen ends of cigars there
and ashes on the floor ; and I thought at
first that parson smoked, and told him of
it.

*' And — and what did he say ? "

Looked guilty," chuckled the old man.

North was silent for a few moments,
sitting with one hand across his eyes, trying
to think out what he should do.

Forelock," he said, sharply turning on
the old man ; '* why did you show me that
to-night ? "

The sexton gazed at him fixedly.

Tell me— the truth."

Well, doctor, it didn't do for young
Squire Tom to be dedicating my church."

*' You had some other reason."

Well, it wasn't safe for us. He might
ha found' us out."

*eyes, exactly; but you would have
warned me instead of taking me there.
Why did you do that ? "

Well, doctor, of course I wasn't blind."

*' What do you mean ? "

*' Well, you see," said the old man, with a

grin, '' the saxon's pay ain't much ; and a
man looks out for what's coming to help
him on."

I don't understand you, man."

'' Well, berlin's and christening's and maun
as all brinor in a bit more. I've sin
it for honos enouo-b."

"Seen what?"

That you was coin' a bit o' courting up
at the Rectory ; and it didn't seem nice for
your young lady to be going out o' nights to
meet Squire Tom, and in my church."

North groaned.

"Never you mind, doctor; I like you,'
said Forelock soothingly.

"Was this — was this known about the
vHlao-e ? "

'Bout you, or 'bout young miss ? "

"Both, man, both ! "

"Nay, not it. I see a deal, because I'm
a man as thinks, doctor. No ; I don't
repose any one knows on it. But never
you mind, doctor ; gels always will be gels
and listen to chaps like Squire Tom. But
I say," whispered the old man, with a chuckle,

after crossing to the window and seeing that
the print curtain was well drawn over the
broken patch through which the leaden
tobacco jar had been hurled, *did you give
it him well ? "

North groaned.

Why, doctor ! Took more bad ? "

The old man glanced at the hand he had
laid upon the doctor's shoulder and wiped
it, for it was wet with blood ; and the sight
of the hideous smear seemed to raise a terrible
thought in his brain.

"Why, doctor," he said, in a low whisper;
'' you haven't — you haven't hurt him
much ? "

North seized the old man's arm, and sat
gazing wildly at him for a few moments
without speaking. He was battling with
the mental confusion that troubled him and
kept him in a state of hesitancy, in which
his mind drifted like a derelict at sea.

He mastered it at last, and began to see
clearly that, from what the old sexton knew,
he must continue to make him his confidant.
There could be no half measures. For his

own safety he must tell him all; though
even now there was Leo, who knew of the
encounter.

No ; she dare not speak, suspect what she
might. For her reputation's sake, she must
hold her tongue.

Meanwhile, the old man glanced at his
hand again, and, with a look of disgust,
went through the action of wiping it.

Why, doctor — doctor ! " he whispered ;
"don't say you've !"

'•' I couldn't help it, Forelock," said
North excitedly. *' It was in the struggle :
it was a fio-ht for life. AYe were both mad
with rao-e, and I — I struck him."

'"'Ay, ay, doctor; but you needn't ha'
hit him so hard. Look at the blood !
Deary, deary ; and all this trouble about a
gel."

'•' I don't know how it happened," panted
North, clinging tightly to the old man's
arm. "I must have given him a terrible
blow."

••' But it's a hano'ino- matter, doctor — a
hanging matter ! " whispered the sexton.

** Don't hold me, man ; I didn't do it ! I
won't be encored into it ! I didn't know
you'd go and do that ! "

*'I didn't mean to, Forelock. It was in
my rage."

"But it's murder, doctor; it's murder,
and they'll try you for your life ! "

It must not be known. We must "

Nay, nay : it isn't we," protested the old
man. "It was you did it. I was steered
about you both getting wild, and I thought
I'd be out of it, and came home."

But you must help me, Forelock ! You
shall help me, man ! "

I can't help yon, doctor : it's murder!"
protested the sexton, trying to escape from
the fierce grasjD which held him.

It was not murder ! It was fair fight ! "
cried North fiercely. "And, look here, man,
you cannot help yourself. You must help
me to hide this terrible night's work."

The old man ceased struggling ; for the
doctor's words impressed him, and he felt
how thoroughly they two were linked together.


But it's like cutting short a man's days,"
he half whimpered.

Silence ! Do what I say, and no one
need know what has occurred."

"But "

Silence, I say ! " cried North, firmly
now. " Get your hat ; we must go to the
church at once."

Forelock stood half bent, and with his
head turned to his companion.

Where — where is he, doctor ? "

In the Candlish vault. I carried him
there ! "

"Hah!"

The sexton drew a long breath.

You must come on and remove all traces
of the struggle in the vestry, and then "

In the moslem, eh, doctor ? " said the
old man thoughtfully, and growing resigned
to the difficulties of his position. " Well,
we can put him where no one's likely to
find him there. Hey, doctor, but it's been
a bad thing for me to ha' met you ! "

"Your lanthorn and matches — quick!"
said North. " There is no time to lose ! "

'•' But if— if— doctor ? "

'•' If what ? "

''If it is found out, you'll say a word forme.
You've made me d.o all this. I do
want to live my fifteen or twenty years more
in peace."

'trust me as you've trusted me before,"
said North, who was now speaking calmly
enough, and had grasped the situation. " I
tell you it was an accident — a horrible accident.
It was in fair fight ; and I have
come off none too well."

I'll stand by you, doctor," said the old
man ; " and we'll hide it safe. But there's
Dally," he muttered to himself — "Dally.
She'll know there's something wrong, for she
won't believe. Not that he has gone away
out o' fear o' doctor ? Ay, she'll have to
think that. My poor little lass — my poor
little lass ! "

THE DOCTOR IS Believed.

The old clock wheezed, and rattled, and
spun round, and its weights ran down as
the doctor and old Forelock entered the
belfry door. Then, as the portal was closed,
the dark place seemed to be filled with
sound as the chimes rang out the four
quarters, and then the deep-toned strokes of
hammer upon bell proclaimed that it was
nearing day.

Only three o'clock," thought North,
"and it seems as many days as hours."

They passed into the church as soon as
the old man had lit his lanthorn and covered
it with the skirt of his coat, which he held
so that the light fell only upon the matting,

and here and there upon a brass or some
half-worn letters cut in the stones.

The chancel door stuck and refused to
open till the old man had held down his
lanthorn to see what held it.

"What's here?" he whispered, as something
glittered. " Young miss's bracelet,"
he added, as he drasfsjed out the shining
gewgaw, wliicli Leo had dropped in her
flight, and which had fallen close to the
bottom of the door, and acted as a wedge.
"Take hold, doctor."

Pah ! " ejaculated North, drawing back.
Throw it away."

"Ay, I'll throw it away," muttered the
old man, stuffing the heavy gold circle into
his pocket : " Til throw it away. Hey, but
lookye here."

He held up the lanthorn, and revealed
the state of the vestry — the chair overturned,
the table driven into a corner, and the gown
and surplice torn from the pegs on which
they had hung, trampled and twisted, while
in one place the tiles close to the wainscot

were stained with blood, a few drops of which
had splashed the panelled oak.

Shut that window, man — quick ! Hide
your light."

Forelock obeyed, screening his lanthorn,
and then climbing on to the oak chest and
drawing in and fastening the hasp.

Shall I " he began, as he got down.

'•' Hang it, man, no ! "

*' Hist ! Don't say that there word,"
whispered Forelock excitedly.

You can come up here tomorrow, and
clean up, and arrange the place. Let's get
to the vault at once."

The old sexton's hands trembled as he
opened the vestry door, but as he felt how
calm and decisive his companion seemed to
be, he took courage and followed North
through the iron gate and down the steps
to the mausoleum door.

*keep that lanthorn well covered," whispered
North, as he unlocked the door ; '^ and
you have not locked the gates."

The old man stepped back, feeling the

VOL. II. X

wisdom of his companion's proceedings as
far as caution was concerned ; and by the
time he had stepped back, North was inside
the great vault, holding the door for him
to enter.

There, let's have the light now," said the
doctor bitterly. " Be firm. You are not
afraid to face a dead man ? "

"Nay, I'm not sheered now, doctor"'
whispered Forelock ; 'but you'll — you'll — -
you'll "

'' Pay you ? "

Ay, doctor. You see, it's — it's "

Don't halt and stammer, man," said the
doctor sternly. " This is a terrible business,,
but I can trust you, and you can trust me.
Stand by me firmly over this, and I will
give you enough every year to make you
comfortable to the end of your days."

Hi, doctor, that's speaking out like a
man," said Forelock, smiling hideously ashe
opened the horn lanthorn to snuff the
candle with his fingers, when the light shone
full in his face. " And he wasn't no good,.
were he T'

*' I dare say he valued his life as highly
as 1 valued mine — yesterday," added the
doctor softly.

"And he tried to kill you, didn't he?"
whispered Forelock, closing the Ian thorn
again.

"As much as I tried to kill him, I suppose,"
said North. 'ewe were fighting like
two brute beasts."

Ay, and it was for life, like," said More-dock,
in a satisfied tone. " It wasn't murder,
doctor, were it ? "

"By law, I suppose not," said North
quietly, as he stood in his former attitude
with his hand over his eyes. " There, we
must not waste time. My experiment is
over now, and we must restore this place to
its old state."

Not murder," said Forelock, with a
chuckle; "of course not. I feel easy
now."

He held the lanthorn over the extended
form of Tom Candlish, which looked strangely
ghastly by the feeble yellow light; and
as he bent down, he could see that the

N 2

young squire had received two terrible
blows — one on his forehead, and the other
on the right temple — both of which had
bled and left a hideous stain upon the sawdust.


Dally '11 have to try again," said the old
man to himself. "Enough a year to make
me comfortable, and the doctor to keep me
alive. You wouldn't ha' done that, Tom
Candlish, over the money ; and you couldn't
ha' kept me alive when I was badly. You'd
ha' been a brute to the gel too 'fore you'd
had her long. There, it's all a blessing in
disguise, as Parson Salis says."

He grinned in his ghoul-like way, and
turned to touch North on the elbow.

"Doctor!" he whispered.

North's hands fell from before his eyes,
and he turned to gaze wildly at the old
man, as one gazes when suddenly awakened
from a too heavy sleep.

"Yes! What is it? I'd forgotten. My
head, man."

Look here," whispered the old sexton,
leading him to the far right-hand corner of

the vault, where a particularly florid old
tarnished coffin handle dimly reflected the
lio^ht in its ancient niche.

The old man o-ave the end of the coffin a
rap with his knuckles.

Empty," he whispered, grinning ; and
he tapped it again, so that it emitted a
hollow sound.

'empty ? "

Ay ; empty now, doctor. An old Squire
Candlish lay in there two hundred years ago
almost ; now a new Squire Candlish can lie
in it, eh ? "

Conceal the body there ? " said North,
who looked dazed.

*' Tchah ! Only put him in there to
sleep : that's all, doctor ; and nobody but
us'll know."

Quick, then," said North ; '' I'm a good
deal hurt, man, and my head feels confused."

"Ay, to be sure, doctor. Til be quick, and
then you can go home and put yourself to
rights, and go on again here just as before.
Take hold."

North obeyed in a dreamy way, apparently

not knowing what he did ; and as Forelock
dragged out the okl coffin, with its tattered
velvet and tarnished ornamentations, he took
the handle at the far end, and it was lifted
down into the sawdust.

The old man took the screw-driver from
where it lay on the new coffin, where Sir
Luke should have reposed, and rapidly turned
the screws, leaving each standing up in its
hole, and then lifted off the lid, to disclose
some yellow lining and faded flowers, turning
rapidly to so much dust — nothing more.

It'll fit him," whispered Forelock. " All
the men Candlishes are 'bout the same size.
"There, doctor," he continued, as he set the
lid down. " Now, then, to make all safe."

The old man's words seemed to rouse
North from his dreamy state, and with a
start he looked at the old wretch before him,
then at the empty coffin, and his quick
medical appreciation of the situation seemed
for the first time to have fully returned.

"Here ; hold the light," he said.

"Better set it down there," whispered
Forelock. "We can see better, then."

Hold the lig^lit, I sav," cried the doctor
sternly ; and he vient down on one knee by
the young squire's side.

Forelock looked on wonderingly, for it
had not occurred to him to make any inquiry
into the vounsf man's state. North had as
good as told him that he was slain, and to
have questioned the doctor's verdict would
have been unnatural. He stood there then
in a bent position, holding the lanthorn, as
North made a rapid examination of the
young baronet, and then rose to his feet ina
calm, practical manner, uttering a sigh of
relief.

Ready, doctor ? " whispered Forelock, to
v/hom all this seemed in the highest degree
unnecessary.

'ready, man? No. Put that ghastly
thing away. Tom Caiidlish will go on working
wickedness for years after you've been
under ground."

Forelock straightened himself up, and
held the lanthorn above his head, so that its
light could fall upon the doctors face. Then,
apparently not satisfied, he lowered it, moved

the wire slide, and opened the little door,
before turning the lin^ht on the doctor's face
again.

Well ? " said North.

*' What yer talking about, doctor ? Yon
don't mean — mean as — as "

"I mean that the man is only stunned,"
said North, frowning, as he stood gazing
down at his rival ; " and we must alter all
our plans, Forelock. Neither you nor I
will be hung for murdering Tom Candlish,"
he added, with a half-savage laugh, as resentment
against the man began to take the place
of the horror which had pervaded his soul.

"Why, doctor," whispered Forelock,
*' you're a bit off your head. Come, man,
quick ; and let's get it done. No one will
know."

*' Pshaw! I'm as sane as you are when
this confused feeling is not here."

But Tom Candlish — the squire ? "

I tell you he's alive, man ! Do you not
understand ? "

And the party in question endorsed his
rival's statement by uttering a low moan.

At that moment, by natural magnetism,
or influence, or occult action of mind upon
mind, or whatever it may have been, two
people who had lain wakeful and excited in
their separate beds, now feverish, now perspiring
profusely from horror and abject fear,
turned their weary heads upon their pillows,
and dropped off fast asleep.

The name of one of the sleepers was Leo
Salis. and of the other Joe Checrgr.

But he's nearly dead, doctor," whispered
Forelock, and he glanced round at the coffin"'
Don't you think that "

He made a significant sion towards the
coffin, and there was a strange leer upon his
ghoulish face.

Dr. North turned swiftly round, and
caught his tempter by the throat !

THE SEXTONS NEWS.

'^ You ring, sir ? "

"Yes, Dally; go up to Miss Leo's room,
and say we are waiting breakfast."

'* Yes, sir," said Dally, and her black-currant
eyes gave a malicious twinkle.

Ob, how I should like to know," she
muttered to herself, as she left the room.

It's so tiresome," exclaimed Sails testily ;
"busy as I am this morning — letters to write.
I must answer this last letter of May's. More
complaints — more complaints ! Oh, what a
wretched curate he has got ! "

Mary looked up from her seat, with her
gentle smile, for she knew how the harsh
crystals of annoyance would melt away with

the first cup of tea, and her brother be all
smiles ao'ain.

Wouldn't you like to begin, dear ? "

Begin ? Without Leo ! You know, Mary,
low particular she is, and how she would feel
it as a siiocht. Tut — tut — tut ! How late she
is ! Mrs. Berens, too, been writing. Do you
know, Mary, I wish that woman would leave
the place ! "

She is not likely to, Hartley," said Mary,
who was propped up with cushions at the
head of the table, having lately taken her
old place once more ; " and she is very kind
and food."

*' Yes, that's the worst of it," said Salis
grimly. " If she were a disagreeable old
harridan, it would not matter so much.
Oh ! here she comes."

Leo came quickly into the breakfast-room,
looking strained about the eyes, to cross to
Mary, put down her right cheek to be kissed,
and then to go to her brother, extend him
her hand, and lower her left cheek for a second
salute.

*' That's right, dear," said Salis cheerily;

"but you are terribly late. I'm so busy this
morning."

*' Why did'you not begin?" said Leo, as
she languidly took her place.

"Without you? Not likely. Pour out,
Mary, dear. Why, Leo — not well ? "

Not well ? " she said, repeating his
words calmly enough. " I am quite well,
dear."

'' But you look—"

"As if I had overslept myself," said
Leo quietly. *' Any letters ? "

*' Yes. One sent on bv Mrs. Berens about
the parish poor. Must bring that up this
morning. One from May. That wicked
old man ! I know he keeps on with this
persecution — there, I can call it nothing else
on purpose to get me to resign."

And you will not resign, Hartley," said
Leo ; " you will set him at defiance."

I don't know. I do love a quiet life, and
I cannot get it. Now, here's this morning.
Letters to write — more tea, Mary. Ten-o'clock
meeting in the vestry."

"Ah!"

*' Why, Leo, dear ! " cried the curate, half
starting from his chair, while Mary gazed
wonderingly at her sister.

There's nothing the matter, good people,"
said Leo contemptuously. " A touch of
toothache ! The weather, I suppose."

"You quite startled me," said Salis
cheerily. " Visit to the dentist imminent,
my dear. Let's see, where was I ? Oh, yes !
Vestry meeting at ten," he continued, turning
to a memorandum-book ; *' Sir Thomas
Candlish to preside, by special request."

Leo's face was ghastly, but she mastered
her emotions by a tremendous effort of will ;
and, rising from her seat, she fetched a book
from the sideboard, opened it as she returned
to her place, and went on reading with her
breakfast.

Ah 1 you'll be glad to hear this, Mary,"
said Salis. " North is going to bring up the
question of those four dilapidated cottages.
He says they are regular fever generators,
and that Sir Thomas shall have them pulled
down, for they are a disgrace to the place."

*they certainly are not fit for human

habitation, Hartley," said Mary, who could
not keep her wondering eyes off her sister,
making a pretence of eating and reading,
but doing; neither. She could do nothing;
but listen to the recital of peril after peril
accumulating round her, and all following
upon a pert, insolent reply given her by
Dally Watlock as she was coming down.

J expect we shall have a storm," continued
Sails, as if to himself. *rit's like
asking the arbitrary landlord to have a
tooth out, to pull down a labourer's cottage."


Leo Salis had the spirit and cruelty of
heart of an old Roman woman. She could
have viewed with a feeling; of intense delight
a gladiatorial exhibition, and turned down
her thumb with the worst of them for the
death-warrant of any poor wretch who had
not displayed a sufficiency of courage. To
her the new-born passion of Horace North
had been a matter of intense satisfaction,
and she had revelled with a malicious joy in
the feeling that she had made him her slave
one who would never meet with the slightest

reward. But while she was careless of the
pain she inflicted upon others, she could
suffer keenly at times, and this was one of
these occasions. She loved as a tigress miorht
love, and her affection had become centred
upon the brutal, coarse-minded, athletic
scoundrel, who ranked as a gentleman, but
whose tastes and ways were those of a low-class
stable helper ; and now, after a night
of miserable anxiety lest her lover should
have been injured by North, while she dare
make no inquiry as to what had occurred —
she found herself obliged to sit there chained
as much by inclination as by necessity to hear
that Tom Candlish and the doctor were to be
brought face to face before her brother in the
scene of the previous night's encounter.

After a short sleep, she had awoke at dawn
to ask herself what she should do — whether
she should fly from the Rectory, and bid Tom
Candlish take her away, so that she should
not be called upon to face the scornful looks
and contempt of North.

But after a time her stubborn and determined
nature had taui^'ht her that she would

be at a prreat disadvantage with Tom Candlisli
if she went to him. He would be no longer
the suer but the sued, and she was determined
that he should make her his wife.

"North dare not speak to me; and if
he did, what then ? He is my slave, and
I will meet him. Let him come, and say
what he likes. I am no sickly, sentimental
girl who feels bound to obey every one in
turn. I will not go. I'll face it all."

She could not conceal her aspect, but
her heart was stroni^^ when she came down
that morning till the troubles seemed to
accumulate, and a black cloud of care,
which she could not penetrate, appeared to
be rising.

Salis went on hurriedly with his breakfast,
talking of the business in the vestry ;
and all the time Leo was wondering how it
was that North could have known of their
meetings — how the vestry looked that
morning — what the old sexton would say,
and how this trouble would settle down.

She glanced furtively aside, and ,saw that
Mary was watching her.

This set her wondering whether her sister
knew anvthiDcr and of whether her nocturnal
escapades would reach her brother's ears.

It was not likely, she told herself; and
she was gradually growing more composed,
when Dally presented herself briskly at the
door, her eyes twinkling, and a quiet, satisfied
look about her which seemed to show that
she was pleased with the task she had in
hand.

'note from Dr. North, sir! No answer."

Hah ! about the cottages," said Salis,
smiling as he opened the note. Dally closing
the door after darting a triumphant glance
at Leo, which was not seen. 'ammunition
to use against the enemy. How provoking ! "

Is anything wrong, Hartley ? " said
Mary, while Leo bent lower over her book.

"Wrong? Yes! There always is something:
wroDQT. Poor Horace is unwell this
morning, and cannot attend the vestry."

Leo's heart gave a bound. Her brave,
strong lover had beaten the wretched intruder,
and he had curled up in his hole,
afraid to come out. There was nothing to

VOL. n.

fear from Horace North but his contempt,
and she could meet that with her scorn.

''My poor people's cottages!" sighed
Salis. 'they'll have to wait. Well, I'm
not malignant, but if a fever is generated
there, I hope the landlord will be the first
to catch it."

Hartley ! " cried Mary, in remonstrant
tones.

I didn't say and be cut off," cried Salis,
laughing, glancing at the window. " I meant
to read him a severe lesson. Hallo ! Job
redivivus ! I'm Job. Here comes another
messenger. Why, what does old Forelock
want ? "

Leo's heart sank. She felt that she knew,
and shrank from the ordeal, as Dally meekly
opened the breakfast-room door.

Please, sir, granada says can he speak to
you a minute ? "

Certainly, Dally ; bring him in. Port
wine, Mary ! " he added, as soon as the maid
had left the room ; and he recalled certain
words he had let fall about the mission

bottles of tent, and his promise to give the
old fellow wine if be were unwell.

Surely, Hartley, you are not going to
have that dreadful old man in here ! "
panted Leo, who felt half suffocated by her
emotion, as she recalled the last nis^ht's
scene in the vestry.

"Why not, dear"'

*rit is too horrible — the sexton!"

'* Nonsense, child ! Poor old fellow !
His stay on earth cannot be for long ; let's
make it as free from social thorns as we
can. Morning, Forelock ! " he cried, as
Scilly ushered the old man in, to stand
bowen cr to Mary and her sister before making
a scrape or two before the curate.

''•' Morning, young ladies ! Morning', sir !
Smart morning', sir ! Sorry to trouble you
at braxfus, but I was obliged to come."

Leo acknowledged the bow without rising,
bent lower over her book, and, with teeth
set hard, stole one hand under the cloth to
grasp the edge of the table and grip it withall
her raio-ht.

o



What, about the vestry meeting — to tell
me Dr. North was ill ? ''

*' Doctor ill ! Is he though, sir ? " croaked
Forelock, as his red eyes wandered from
face to face.

"Yes, he is unwell, Forelock, and cannot
come."

"Bad job — bad job, sir ! Doctors has no
business to be il. Suppose I was took bad,
I shouldn't like to trust Dr. Benson. I
never did have no faith in King's Hampton
folk at all. But it wasn't about that."

What, then ? Nothing serious, I hope ? "
"Ay; but it be, sir," croaked the old
man, staring for a moment at Mary, and
then fixing his eyes upon Leo. " It is very
serous. Some un's been in the night and
made a burly in the clutch."

What ! " cried Salis, starting up. " Great
heavens, Forelock ! is this true ? "
"Ay, it be true enough, parson."
But they haven't taken the plate ? "
Nay, the plate be safe, though."
The poor-boxes, then ? Thank goodness,

Mary, I emptied them the day before yesterday.
How providential ! "

"They never touched poor-boxes," croaked
Forelock ; "and if I might make so bold,
parson, I'm a bit weak i' th' legs yet, and
I'd like to sit down."

Yes, yes, sit down, Forelock ; but pray
speak out."

*' ^\^ell, you see, sir, they didn't get into
my clutch : only into vestry."

Leo felt that she must get up and leave
the room, but she lacked the power.

'the vestry!" cried Salis. "What have
they taken ? "

Well, as far as I can make out, sir, they
broke in at window, and then they must
ha' been steered, for they only they one
thing."

"What:— the wine?"

Xay, nay, nay. Vine's all right — locked
up in the cupboard," croaked Forelock.
They've stole your surplus, sir."

Impossible ! " cried Salis, giving the
table a sounding thump with his closed fist.

and bursting into a roar of laughter.
Impossible, Mary. I haven't any surplus-for
them to steal."

x\y, well," grumbled the old sexton
looking wonderingly at the curate and then
at Leo and Mary in turn ; " you may say
so, parson, but I know. It were a hanging
up on peg alongside o' the gown, and they'd
pulled 'em both down to take away, when
they must have been steered, and they
crowned the gown down in the corner by
the oak chest, and the surplus is gone."

Ah, well, it might have been worse,"
said Salis, with a sigh. *' It was my new one,
though, and the old one is terribly darned.
Leo, dear, you will have to get out the old one
again. Mary has the keys."

It be a bad job, parson."

*' It is, Forelock, a very bad job ; but
I'm glad the wretches were scared. I won't
believe it was any one from Duke's Hampton."


Nays, it were some of the King's Hampton
lot, safe, parson. LTgh ! they're a bad
set out under. I thought it my booty to-come

on and tell you, sir, and now I'm going
away back."

Let me give you a cup of tea, More-dock,"
said Mary; 'you look tired."

Bless your sweet eyes and heart, miss,
and tliankye kindly," said Forelock. " Cup
o' tea's a great comfort to a lone old man.
And thanks kindly for undertaking to
take care o' my Dally, as wants it, like
most young gels. Why, Miss Mary, I've
know'd you since you was quite a little thin
slip."

"You have, Forelock," said Mary, smiling,
as she handed the tea to her brother
for the old man, who paid no farther
heed to Leo. " I was only fifteen when I
first saw you."

Ay, and you was as bright and quick

as now you're Well, never mind that,

my dear. Better be an angel as can't walk
about than some beautiful o^els as can."

Why, Forelock," said Salis, laughing,
was that meant for a compliment ? "

"I dunno, parson," said the old man,
staring hard at Mary ; " 'tis only what I

felt. Heaven bless her ! I never see her
face wi'out thinking o' stained glass windows,
wi' wire outside to keep away the stones ; and I
says, may no stones never be thro wed at her."

The okl man gulped down his tea, and
rose to go.

You'll be on at vestry room, sir ? "

Yes, Forelock ; and once more I'm glad
it's no worse."

Like me to go over in Bradley's donkey-cart,
sir, to tell the police ? "

*' Well, yes, Forelock. We must give
notice about the scoundrels, I suppose, or
they may come again."

Morning', then, sir, and my service to
you. Miss Mary, and thanks kindly, my
dear," said the old mau, hobbling off without
a word or look at Leo ; and, oddly
enough, as he reached the road he wiped a
tear from each of his watery eyes.

And so she is," he muttered, " a real
angel. My Dally never said, shave a cup o'
tea, granada ; you're hot and tired.' Ah ! gels
is made different, but my Daily's worth two o'
that tother one."

"Police, ell?" he muttered, as lie went
on. " I was 'obliged to take it away twissened
up into a rag, and if it lead been washed
somebody would have known. Ah, well, I
know what to do wi' that."

So the old man went straight home, and
fastened the door, before taking the soiled
and crumpled surplice from his oak chest ;
and then carefully picking it to pieces and
rolling it up.

My Dally shall wash that, first time she
comes, and nobody's know it's a surplus now.
She might ha asked her old granada to have
a cup o' tea."

AT Candles HALL.

My Dally " had been otherwise employed,
for a messenger had come over from the
Hall to see the curate ; and at the time her
grandfather was departing, Dally was cross-examining
the good-tempered, loutish youth
respecting his master, and getting out of him
all she could glean.

** Job is having it this morning'' said
Salis, for he heard a familiar step in the
passage, as soon as the sexton had gone.
'what now, Dally? No more bad news''

Bad news, sir ? " said the girl, speaking
to her master, and gazing at Leo, who did
not look up. " I don't think so, sir. It's the
young man from Candlish Hall, sir, to see
you particles."

I knew it," cried Salis to Mary, as Leo
bent lower. *' Candlish has sent word that he
cannot come. Now, how the de "

'' Hartley ! "

"Well, it's enouoii to make a saint swear.
How can a man carry on his parish work like
this ? I wish to goodness May had it to do
himself. Show him in. Dally."

The girl departed, and returned directly
with the servant from the Hall, who looked
stealthily at Salis, and then from Leo to
Mary and back.

Can I steak to you alone, sir ? " he
said.

Yes, yes, my man, certainly. Is it
anything serious ? "

"Yes, sir — very, sir. I've come "

•'• Here, this way, to my study, my man,"
said Salis, rising.

Stop ! "

Salis had reached the door — his hand was
on the knob, and he was about to turn it ;
but the sharp, commanding voice made him
turn in astonishment, to see Leo standing-erect,
with her head thrown back, her eyes

flashing, and her hand resting upon the book
closed now — and one finger shut in to mark
the place.

Leo ! "

Yes ; I said ' stop.' We are not children,"
she cried, in an imperative voice. " Let the
man speak here."

It was about Sir Thomas, ma'am — my
master," faltered the man, before Salis had
recovered from his astonishment. " An
accident."

An accident ? " cried Leo, as Salis stepped
to her side, and laid his hand upon her arm ;
but she shrank away. " Well, sir, why do
you not speak ? "

Am I to speak, sir ? " faltered the man.

Yes ; speak out," said Salis quietly.

My master did not come home last night,
sir — I mean this morning. He often goes
out of a night, sir, very late ; but he always
comes in at daybreak. I've seen him dozens
of times."

'* Yes ; go on," said Leo harshly.

He didn't come back, miss — ma'am ; and
I was thinking: about it when I went to the

stables and took his mare and the pad-horse
out for exercise."

"Speak more quickly, man," said Leo
imperiously.

Yes, ma'am. We'd got down nearly to
the ford, when the mare — master's mare,
ma'am — shied at something, and nearly threw
me.

The mare shied ? " said Leo, with her
eyes dilating.

Yes, ma'am ; and I saw it was at master
lying there by the side of the road."

*' Dead ? "

*'No, ma'am, but very bad. His head
was "

'* Hush ! " said Salis, interrupting sternly.
*'No particulars, my man; only answer me
this — was it a fall ? "

"Oh, no, sir ! some one had been beating

him about the head with a stick, I should

J)
say.

Had he been robbed ? "

"Ob, no, sir ! His watch and chain and

pin were all right."

Was he insensible ? " continued Salis.

Yes, sir ; quite, sir ; and seemed to have
been staggering about the road, trying to get
home, for there was bl "

Hush, man ! Only answer my questions,"
cried Salis hastily. " You got him
home ? "

Yes, sir," said the man, who could not
keep his eyes off Leo, who was gazing at him
wildly — in a way which taught her brother
that the old love for Tom Candlish was far
from dead.

And then "

"And then, sir, as soon as we'd got him
on his bed, I galloped off for Dr. North, sir."

Yes."

But lie's ill, sir, and the housekeeper
said he couldn't come to the HalL"

Well ? "

I hardly knew what to do, then, sir ;
but as I was wondering what was best, Joe
Chegg come up, sir — he used to be a groom,
you know — and I jumped off the mare, and
made him get up and go off to King's
Hampton to fetch Dr. Benson, while 1 came
on to you."

Quite right," said Salis. " I'll come ou
with you directly. Mary, my dear, send a
line to Forelock to say that there will be
no vestry meeting. Yes ? You were going
to speak, Leo."

She shook her head, and half closed her
eyes, as she turned away, shivering at the
feeling of vindictive rage which ran through
her, as in imagination she seemed to see the
result of the encounter which had taken
place, and that it was Tom Candlish who
had fared by far the worse.

Salis's countenance grew more stern, ashe
leaned over to Mary, and stooped over
to say a few words in her ear.

'•' Try and keep her by your side. We
must have no foolish excitement now."

I will try," said Mary gently ; and she
looked up to see that Leo was watching them
both inquiringly, her face contracted, and a
singular look in her eyes

For she was wondering what would bethe
result of her brother's meeting with the
young squire ; and then as she drew her
breath painfully, the thoughts of self and

the dread of detection gave place to feelings
of horror respecting the man she loved, and
of hate, the most bitter and intense, against
North, whom she now longed to meet that
she might revile him — heap upon his head
her bitterness and contempt.

It's scared us, sir, horrible," said the
man as he walked back with Salis.

'have you any idea who attacked your
master?" said Salis.

Not a bit, sir. That's the puzzle of it.
If it had been for his money, they'd have
taken it all, and his watch. We can't understand
it a bit."

"I can," said Salis to himself. "The
scoundrel has been insulting some one's child,
or sweetheart, or wife, and been half killed
for his pains. I wonder who was the guilty
party ? Well I know that," he muttered with
a half laugh— 'atom Candlish."

"Yes, sir; beg pardon, sir."

What for, my man ? " said Salis, feeling
a little disconcerted.

I thought you laughed, sir, and said
something."

"No, no, my man ; only a way of mine."

They walked on in silence after this, Salis
feeling very sore at heart as he thought of his
sister, and how painful it was that she should
still care, as she evidently did, for such a
worthless scoundrel.

Even the knowledge of this new escapade
would not move her, I'm afraid," he
muttered. " Well, matters like this must
settle themselves."

They now reached the Hall, to find the
servants assembled, and in a state of the
most intense excitement.

"Master was no worse," the old butler
said. " He had been asking for brandy."

What ? You did not sive it to him ? "
cried Salis excitedly.

I was obliged to, sir. You can't know
Sir Thomas, or you wouldn't talk like that.
But I'm very glad you've come, sir. ~ It's
such a responsibility, having him so bad.
He's terribly cut about, sir. Please come in
and see if you can do anything more than
I have till the doctor comes."

Salis followed the old butler up to the

VOL. II. p

bedroom, where Tom Candlish lay upon the
bed, and, as the butler said, terribly cut
about the head ; for, in addition to the
bruises upon his head and temple, he had
a cut lip, and the very perfection of two
black eyes.

I don't think you need be alarmed,"^
whispered Salis to the old man, as the door
was opened, and the young squire saluted
the butler with a volley of good stable
oaths.

What the something unmentionable did
he mean by bringing the parson ? he raved.

Do you think I'm going to die, and want
to be prayed for ? Send for a doctor."

I did. Sir Thomas," said the butler
deprecatingly ; " but Dr. North "

Curse Dr. North I " roared the young
man. " Send for Dr. Benson."

"I have. Sir Thomas, and "

"Be off, you old idiot! And you, Salis,
you'd better go too, or I may say something
to you that you will not like."

'you can say what you please, my good
fellow," said Sali?, coolly taking off his coat

for the second time in the young man's
presence.

"You coward," groaned the injured man;
and when I'm like that. Your cursed
sister "

'•' Silence, you scoundrel ! " roared Salis.
Here, fetch water in a basin, sponges,
towels, and linen that I can cut up," he
continued to the butler, who gladly hurried
out of the room. "And you, Candlish,
unless you wish to rage yourself into a fever,
be quiet ; but I warn you that if you mention
my sister again, sick or well, I will not
be answerable for the consequences."

What are you going to do ? " growled
the young man suspiciously.

Do, sir ? What I would do for any other
dog that I saw lying wounded in the road.
I'm going to doctor you till proper qualified
assistance comes."

He doesn't know," thought Tom Candles.
Then aloud : "I thought you were
going to take a mean advantage of me now
I was down."

You thought I was just such a cowardly,

p 2

mean-spirited brute as you are, and ns
treacherous, eh ? " said Sails bitterly, as he
rapidly removed the clumsy bandage about
the young man's head. " Why, hallo ! what
does this mean ? "

What does what mean ? "

Your head. It has been bandaged."

Yes ; that old idiot of a butler did it."

No ; I mean this other. It has been
properly strapped up."

Has it ? "

"Yes," said Salis. "The old man knows
more about it than you think for. There,
lie still."

Who's to lie still with his head on fire ? "
growled the injured man. "Here, ring for
some brandy."

"You mean for the undertaker," said
Salis coolly.

No ; the brandy," snarled Tom Candlish.
I'm sick and faint."

And you'll be more sick and more faint
if you take spirits now. There, lie still, and
I'll try and cool your head with this sponge
and water."

For the butler had re-entered, and for
the next half hour the curious spectacle was
visible of Hartley Sails playing the good
Samaritan, with all the knowledge of experience,
to the man who was doing his best
to bring ruin and misery upon his peaceful
home.

The delicate, almost feminine touch,
soothed the pain Tom Candlish suffered ;
and he lay quietly upon the pillow, looking
up at the curate, wondering whether he
would do this if he knew all, and what he
would say if he knew that he had deluded
Leo into leaving her room night after night,
to grant him meetings in the okl vestry
time after time, in spite of all that had been
said.

The butler had gone, and Tom Candlish
was lying with his eyes half closed, thinking
about his last meeting with Leo, of the coming;
of the doctor, of their encounter, and of the
way in which he had been struck down, when
just after Salis had carefully laid a cool, moist
towel upon his aching head, the door softly
opened, and the baronet started up in bed

With his ghastly face distorted as he uttered
quite a yell.

Ah, Horace, old fellow ! " cried the curate
excitedly. " I have been reproaching myself
for not coming down to you. Here is my
excuse. I'm so glad you've come."

'' Keep him. off ! Send him away ! " yelled
Tom Candlish, trying vainly to get to the
other side of the bed, as North stood pale,
choking, and suffering in the doorway.

Don't take any notice," continued Salis ;
"a bit delirious, I'm afraid ; " and then he
gazed wonderingly at his friend as, with a
fierce, implacable look, North strode up to
the bed.

DOCTOR AND PATIENT.

"•' Keep him off ! He wants to murder me ! "

My good fellow," said Salis sternly,
*' you are trying to murder yourself. Sit
still, or ril hold you down. If you don't
know what's good for yourself, it's fit someone
should."

But I tell you "

And I tell you," cried Salis angrily, for
Tom Candlish's fierce obstinacy was teaching
him that the clerical garb and years of mental
repression will not quite crush out the natural
man.

"It's very good of you to come, North," he
said, crossing to his friend. " Getting up out
•of a sick bed, too, for the cause of this l)rute.

I wish sometimes that education did not force
us to be so extremely benevolent and philanthropic
over mauvais sujets ; but it does.
Are you better ? "

"Yes," said North hastily; and his face
being free from marks, he was able to confront
his friend boldly. " I knew there was no
doctor within reach, and 1 was afraid
the case might be turning serious. Let's
see.

He walked up to the bed, with Tom
Candlish quailing before him, and watching
his eyes as some timid animal might when
expecting capture or a blow.

I protest — I "

Hold your tongue, sir," cried Salis
sternly. " Dr. North is here for your good.
Lie stilL"

I don't know whether my way is right,"
he added to himself, " but firmness appears to
be best with the brute."

North seemed to hesitate a few minutes —
fighting between routine, the desire to do
what was right by the man he believed he had
nearly killed, and his intense dislike, even

hatred, of the scoundrel for whom he told
himself he had been jilted by a wretched,
shameless girl.

Sails looked on curiously.

Effect of the power of the eye," he said
to himself, as he saw North lay his hands
upon the injured man's shoulders, and,
bending down, gaze into his eyes for a few
moments. " By George ! Horace North is
a big fellow in his profession, and I shall
begin to believe in psychology, mesmerism,
animal magnetism, and the rest of it, before
I've done."

He leaned forward to gaze intently at
what was going on.

'■' Quells him at once," he said to himself.
'•' Humph ! he needn't be spite so rough."

This was consequent upon a quick,
brusque examination of the patient, which
evidently gave Tom Candlish a great deal
of pain.

'•' Here, parson ! " he yelled ; " this
man's "

He did not finish, for North's teeth
grated together, and he tightened his grasp

SO firmly that Tom Candlisli's head sank back,
his battered face elongated, and he lay perfectly
still, feeling quite at the mercy of his
enemy.

North ended his examination by literally
thrusting Tom Candlish back upon his
pillow in a way which made Salis stare.

'' He will not hurt, save to do plenty
more mischief, Salis. Look here ; have you
sent for Dr. Benson ? "

Yes, sir," said the butler wonderingly.

Your master will be all rio^ht till he
comes. Tell Dr. Benson that I only came
in upon the emergency. 1 have nothing todo
with the case."

'certainly, sir."

And," said North savagely, and evidently
for Tom Candlish to hear, ''if your
master wishes to commit suicide, put that
brandy decanter by his side. He smells of
it now like poison. Come along, Salis."

"You think him fit to be left?"

"Fit to be left !" cried North, whose uneasy
conscience was now at rest. " Here :
come away."

'■ Why, Hoi-ace, old man, this is not like
you," cried Salis, as they were going down
to the loose orate.

•' Like me ! *' cried North, turning upon
him with a searching look, and reading in
his eyes his thorough ignorance of the state
of affairs. •* Xo, it is not, old boy. I'm ill.
]\Iy head aches fit to split, and the sight of
that man. now my nerves are on the rack,
exasperates me''

'• AVell, never mind. It was very good of
you to get up and come ; but, all the same,
I'm glad you did, for it has set my mind at
rest as to danger. There's no danger — you
are sure ? "

Sure ? Yes. He has the physique of a
bull. Curse him ! ''

Ha — ha — ha — ha — ha ! " roared Salis,
laughing in the most undignified manner,
and then raising his eyes to encounter the
fierce gaze of his friend.

'' What are you laughing at ? " cried North
angrily.

"At Tom Candlish — the noble Sir Thomas!
It's comic, now that I know there is no

danger. Why, Horace, old fellow, don't you
know how it happened ? "

North paused as he stared wildly at Leo's
brother.

Don't 1 know how it happened ? " he
faltered.

It's over some love affair, and the scoundrel
has been caught."

What ? "

Yes ; that's it'' cried Salis joyously.
'' I don't know for certain, and this is confoundedly
clerical, but it's glorious. The
brute ! Some father or brother or lover has
caught him, and thrashed him within an
inch of his life. My dear Horace, I don't
know when I've felt so pleased'

The doctor's face was a study of perplexity
in its most condensed form. The
injury to his head had tended to confuse
bim, so that he could not think clearly according
to his wont, and he felt a longing
to explain everything to, and confide in, his
old friend ; but he could not speak, for how
could he tell him that his sister had been
so base ? It must come from another, or

Salis must find it out for himself; lie could
not speak.

I've talked to the fellow before," continued
the curate. " I've preached to him ;
I've preached at him ; and all the time I've
felt like a bee upon the back of a rhinoceros,
hard at work blunting my sting. Stick, sir,
stick is the only remedy for an ill like that
of Squire Tom, and, by George ! Horace, he
has had a tremendous dose."

'•' Yes," said North, whose conscience felt
more at ease now that he had satisfied himself
as to the young man's state.

Did you see his eyes ? " cried Salis,
laughing again ; " swollen up till they look
like slits ; and won't they be a glorious
colour, too — eh, Horace, old fellow ! There,
don't bully me for saying it, but you know
what used to trouble me. How I should
like Leo to have her disenchantment completed.
I should have liked her to see the
miserable brute as he is — battered and flushed
with brandy."

North started violently.

There, there, I ought not to have said

it, but I'm speaking of my own sister, and
of something of the past which you know
all about. How can girls be such idiots ? "

North did not speak, but walked swiftly
on beside his friend, who, repenting of what
he had said, and feeling that it had been in
execrable taste, hastened to change the subject,
so as to place the doctor at ease.

Did you hear this morning's news ? " he
said.

"News ? " said North, turning sharply.

No ; of course you could not, being ill
in bed, where you'd better go again. Burglary,
my boy. We're getting on."

Burglary ? "

Yes ; sacrilegious burglary, sir. One of
those King's Hampton rascals — one of May's
lambs — broke into the vestry last night."

It was on North's lips to say furiously,
There, speak out, man ! If you know all
about this, say so at once;" but the words
seemed to halt there, and he only gazed
wonderingly as Salis talked on in his easy,
good-tempered way.

'•' Forelock came up to tell me this

mornmcr.

Forelock ? "

Yes : we were to hare had the vestry
meeting, you know."

Of course : I said I was too ill to come,"
said North hoarsely.

So you are. Well, the old fellow went
up to dust aud put the place straight, and
he found that some one had broken in bv
the window, and had evidently been interrupted,
for my gown was torn down and
thrown on the floor, and they had carried
off my new surplice."

Carried off your surplice ! " stammered
North.

•'■' Yes." said the curate, looking at his
friend wonderingly, and thinking how ill he
seemed. '•' Nearly new surplice, sir ; and I
shall have to come round in forma pauperis
for subscriptions to get another. You will
have to sand up among the rest, if you
don't want to see your poor parson in rags,
or sister Mary working her poor little fingers

to the bone to keep the old one darned. Ah !
here we are."

The curate uttered a sigh of relief, for he
had been chattering away with a purpose —
to keep his friend's attention from his state,
for, as he held his arm, he could feel him reel
from time to time.

Thank Heaven ! " muttered North, as he
staggered in at the gates of the Manor.
Good-bye, Salis, good-bye."

Yes, I'll say good-bye presently, old
chap. It's no use disguising the fact. You're
ill, and ought not to have come out. I shall
see you to bed, and you must tell me what
to do."

No, no ; I can manage," protested North.

But Salis would not go.

My dear boy, it's of no use. You know
how obstinate I am. I should stop with you
if it were small-pox, so just hold your tongue.
Hah ! Now Mrs. Milt, the doctor's got his
turn after laughing at us poor mortals so long.
Let's get him to bed, and you must help me to
keep him there."

I'm not a bit surprised," began Mrs.

Milt, in a vinegary, snappish way ; and then
the tears started to her eyes, and she caught
North's hand in hers and kissed it. ** Oh,
my poor, dear master ! " she sobbed.

It was all momentary. The spasm passed
off, and in a busy, tender, matter-of-fact way,
she helped the half delirious man to bed, when,
acting upon a hint or two he gave, the old
housekeeper and Salis laid their heads together
to prescribe.

VOL. II.

A PARCEL BY Career.

Dr. Benson drove over daily from King's
Hampton to attend Sir Thomas Candlish, and,
to do Dr. Benson justice, he made a very
good professional job of the injury to the
young baronet, both from his own and the
ordinary point of view.

Tom Candlish protested, but the doctor
was inexorable.

''No, sir," he said, "injuries like yours
require time. Nature must be able to
thoroughly mend the damage done. I could
have helped her to patch you up — to cobble
you, so to speak ; but the tender spot would
break out again. I must do my work
thoroughly."

'• Bat your drives over here — your bill
will be monstrous."

Large, but not monstrous, my dear' sir,"
said Dr. Benson, smiling ; " and what area
few pounds compared to your valuable
life ? "

Tom Candles lay thinking that there was
something in this, and that it was far better
to pay even a hundred pounds than to have
been carried to the Candlish mausoleum, and
without paying out North for the injuries he
had received.

How's North ? " he said.

"Oh, very well, I believe. Dr. North
and I do not meet very often. A clever
young man, though — a very clever young
man."

Humph ! Don't believe in him," said
Tom Candlish. " But he has been very ilL"

'' Little touch of sunstroke, or something
of that kind, sir. I saw his patients for two
days only ; then he was about again."

Humph ! " ejaculated Tom Candlish.
*' Doctor, I'm low to-day ; I must have some
champagne."

Q 2

*' My dear sir ! out of the question."

** Brandy, then ! "

"Worse and worse."

*' But I'm sinking. This cursed low feeling
is horrible."

'' Well, well ! " said the doctor smoothly,
as, after a moment's consideration, he felt
that the wine would only throw his patient
back for a few days, and give him a longer
period for attendance ; " perhaps a drop —
say, half a glass — would not hurt you, but I
would not exceed half a glass ; champagne
glass, mind. Good morning."

Dr. Benson took his departure, perfectly
aware that the young baronet would
be exceedingly ill the next morning; and so
he was, for Tom Candlish had a medical
sanction for taking a little champagne ; and
the butler produced the bottle — one of many
dozens laid in by Squire Luke, who had purchased
them through a friend as a special
brand.

It was a special brand of paraffin quality,
well doctored with Hambro' spirit ; and as,
after the first glass, Tom Candlish argued

that the rest would be wasted or drunk by
the servants, an opened bottle of the effervescent
wine being useless if not utilised
at once, he, in spite of the protestations
of the butler, finished the bottle, and threw
himself back for another week.

At the Rectory, matters had settled down
somewhat, the hours gliding by without any
discovery being made ; and, after the first
excitement and dread, Leo began to feel
that she would soon be able to resume her
meetings with her lover.

North had ceased to call at the Eectory,
and they had not yet come face to face.
But this troubled Leo less and less. As the
days had passed on, and the eclaircissement
had halted, so had her strength of mind and
feeling of defiance increased.

*' He dare not face me after his brutal
treatment of poor Tom," she had said ; *' and
he knows the contempt in which I hold him.
He cannot be so pitiful as to tell Hartley,
intimate as he and my brother are. I have
nothing to fear."

She feared, though, all the same, though
she did not know from whence the stroke she
anticipated would fall. Dally was extremely
pert, but then she always had been. She
could know nothing ; and in a defiant spirit,
Leo settled herself down in a fool's paradise,
eagerly waiting for the recovery of the
squire.

The one policeman from King's Hampton
had been over and discoursed with the one
policeman of Make's Hampton re the sacrilege
at the church, and they had taken into their
counsel the one policeman stationed at Whitley
Beauwells, a village five miles away, but they
had made nothing out of that. There was the
attack, though, upon the squire, which seemed
very promising, and the trio waited upon him
as soon as he was pronounced well enough to
be seen.

The injury must have had an lacerating
effect upon Tom Candlish, for, to use the
constables' words, they came down out of the
bedroom with fleas in their ears ; and after
having a horn of ale apiece, went back to the
village.

Their way was by the churchyard, where
Forelock was sunning himself by leaning
over the wall, so that the heat could play
well upon his back, and he entered into
conversation with the three myrmidons of
the law in a questioning spirit.

'' Wouldn't give you any information,
would he ? "

No," said he of King's Hampton. " Told
us to go to you know."

"No, I don't," said Forelock grimly, as
if the allusion to this knowledge at his time
of life was unsavoury. " But why wouldn't he
tell you ? Don't he want who it was caught ? "

Said it was nothing of the kind," said he
of Whitley Beau wells.

Yes," said the Duke's Hampton man ;
*' said it was an accident, old boy — a fall."

'' Hi ! Yes. I repose it would be," said
Forelock drily. " Squire had a nasty accident
before — a fall. Some people do have
accidents of that sort."

'• Well," said the Duke's Hampton policeman,
" we've done our duty, and that's enough

lor us.

Ay," said Forelock. " You've done
your booty, and that's enough for you."

They parted, and Forelock chuckled.

*' Bats is nothing and moles is telescopes
to 'em. Uniforms seems to make constables
blind. Well, all the better for me. Hallo I
where's carrier going to-day ? Doctor's, perhaps,
with some new stuflP."

The carrier was, however, not going to the
doctor's, but passed on.

Don't quite know what to make of him,"
muttered Forelock. " That crack o' the
head don't seem to have healed up, for he
looks queer sometimes. I don't like the
look of things, somehow ; but we shall see —
we shall see. Why don't Dally come down,
too ? I wanted to know how things is going
there, and she ought to ha' got that shirt
made by now.

Hi ! hi ! hi ! " the old man laughed.
*make me two noo best shirts o' fine linen
as a man may be proud on. Ill wind as
blows nobody any good."

The old man went chuckling away, as he
thought over the two new Sunday shirts he

was to have made out of the surplice, which
after unpicking and cutting off edging, he
had washed and dried and handed as so
much new material to Dally to make up,,
long immunity from detection having made
him daring enough to trust the linen to the
very place that, to an ordinary observer
would have seemed most dangerous.

But the shirts were not made yet, for
Dally had declared it to be all bother, and
had put the roll of linen in her drawer
inspired by a feeling that granada couldn't
live much longer, and then the linen would
do for her.

Oddly enough, as Forelock mused upon
the whiteness and coolness of the comines
endearments, the carrier stopped at the
Eectory gate, and delivered a parcel, carriage
paid by North Midland Railway to King's
Hampton station, but sixpence to pay for the
ten miles by cart.

Dear me ! " said Salis, turnings over the
package, which was evidently a box done
up in very stout brown paper. " * The

Eeverend Hartley Salis, Duke's Hampton
Rectory, Warwickshire. By N. M. Rail and
Thompson, carrier. Carriage paid to King's
Hampton.' Well, that's plain enough, Mary."

'' Yes, dear ; it's evidently for you."

Yes, evidently for me ; eh, Leo ? "

"Yes," said Leo, looking up from her
book for a moment, and dropping her
eyes again without displaying any further
interest.

It's very curious," said Salis, rather
excitedly. " ' From Irish and Lawn, robe
makers, Southampton Street.' Why, surely
bless my soul, I never sent. I "

He busily cut the string, and opened the
paper and the neatly-tied box within, to find,
as, after reading the label, he had expected,
that the contents consisted of a new surplice
of the finest quality with, a note pinned thereto,
and written within, in a tremulous, disguised
hand :

"From an admirer."

The word " admirer " had been lightly
scratched across, and " constant attendant "
placed above.

Sails looked at the note, and then at his
sister Mary, colouring with excitement as
ingenuously as a girl.

'•'Whv, Mary," he said, 'who could have
sent this ? Do you know ? "

Mary shook her head, but her eyes
brightened with pleasure, as she felt how
gratified her brother would be.

"Did not you and Leo contrive this as a
surprise ? "

Mary shook her head again, and Leo
looked up languidly.

'what is it?" she said. ''A present?
Xo," she added, with a frown, as she saw
what it was, and lowered her eyes to her
book to read apparently with great interest.

"Then it must be one of North's tricks,"
cried Salis. " It's very kind and thoughtful
of him, but I cannot think of letting him
give me such a present as this. Look, Mary,
dear. It is his writing disguised, is it not ? "

Mary's hand trembled a little as she took
the note and glanced at it, to detect the
writer at once from a peculiarity which had
not been concealed.

swell," cried Salis, ''I am right?"

Mary shook her head again.

"No, Hartley, it is certainly not Mr.
North's writing."

** Then, in the name of all that's wonderful
whose is it ? The people would not subscribe
for it. Besides, it says * from a constant attendant.'
Why, good heavens ! it cannot be
from "

Mary glanced at Leo, who was intent upon
her reading, and then looked back at her
brother, with a half-mischievous and amused
smile, as she nodded her head.

"You think so, too," he exclaimed, in a
whisper. " Oh ! "

There was a look of trouble and perplexity
in his face that was intensely droll, for,
though no name had been mentioned, both
had hit upon the donor ; and as the trouble
deepened in the curate's face, Mary stretched
out her hand to him, and he took it, and sat
down by her side.

It's impossible," he whispered. " I could
not think of taking it. How could she be
so foolish ? "

It seems cruel to call it foolish," said
Mary gentle. "The idea was prompted by
a very kindly feeling."

Of course, of course ; but, my dear Mary,
it is putting me in a false position."

Not if you treat it as an anonymous

gift."

How can I, when I feel certain that she
sent it?"

But even if you are, I think you might
keep it. Hartley. See how common it is for
ladies of a congregation to present the curate
with slippers or braces."

Yes," said Salis drily ; " and all out of
gratitude to their spiritual teacher. Bless
'em, they throw their gifts, and the weak
man thinks they are bladders to enable him
to float lightly along the social current of air,
when, lo ! and behold, he finds, poor weak,
fluttering butterfly, that one of the fair
naturalists has stuck a pin through him,
right into the cork, and he is ' set up ' for
life."

Nonsense, you vain coxcomb ! "

No, my dear Mary, I am not a vain man ;

but I can generally tell which way the wind
blows. I have a certain duty to perform in
connection with my two sisters — a sort of
paternal role to play, and consequently I am
rather afraid of Mrs. Berens."

*' Hartley, dear ! "

Yes, Mary. This surplice is going to be
paid for by H. Salis, clerk in holy orders, ill
as he can afford to do it, or it is going back
to the donor."

But what can she do with it if your idea
is correct ? "

'cut it up to make little garments for
the poor children, if she likes. Bother the
woman : I wish she would go."

DR. NORTH IS STARTLED.

You puzzle me, doctor," said Forelock ;
you do, indeed. I've been a-going to church
all my life, and I've listened to hundreds o'
sermons, and I know all about the Good
Samaritan and duty towards your neighbour ;
but how, after what happened, you could
tie him up and sticking-plaste]?~^him, and
then q:o next morning' to see how he was,
caps me."

Never mind about that, Forelock," said
North quickly, and looking restlessly about
the cottage interior. "I think we may feel
satisfied he did not revive while he was in
the mausoleum."

Not he. I thought he was never going

to Vive any more. So you mean to go there
iigain ? "

Yes, Forelock — yes," said North, with
his eyes moving wildly round. **I must go
son now. I have lost too much time as it is."

'*A11 right, doctor. If you say as we'll
go, that's enough."

"You feel convinced that no one has
-observed us ? "

Yes, I'm convinced, as you call it, of
that, doctor. I've kept the secret too well.
And so you mean to go again ? "

Go again, man ! Yes. Did I not tell
you so ? " cried North, with an angry excitement
in his voice. " Yes, to-night."

To-night, eh ? Very well, doctor. I'll
be there ; but you'll take, a drop o' that
curdle with you. There won't be no need
for me to watch the vestry to-night."

North made an impatient gesture, and
walked to the door as if to go, but turned
sharply, and walked back to where the sexton
was seated smoking.

What was it you said ? " he asked, in an
absent way.

What did I ask, doctor ? "

Yes, yes, man," cried North impatiently,
as he kept glancing towards the door.

Oh, 'bout that there curdle, doctor. I
haven't been quite right since that night,
and I thought a drop or two might do me
good, and "

Forelock stopped in the middle of his sentence,
and sat staring, for North had suddenly
turned and walked straight out of the place.

"Doctor's not got over his tumble that
night," muttered the old man. " He's shook,
that's what's the matter with him ; and he
haven't got his thinking tackle quite put
right again. It's worried him, too, about
that there gel. Well, she won't come to the
vestry to-night, and there's no fear o' Squire
Tom coming, for he won't be out o' bed, they
say, for days. Miss won't want to go and sit
there all by herself wi'out she thinks as
the doctor would do now. A baggage ! —
that's what she is — a baggage ! and looking
all the time so smooth and good. Wonder
what parson would say if he snowed of her
goings on ? "

VOL. II. R

The old man sat musing and smoking for
an hour, and then, by way of preparation
for his night work, he let his head go down
upon his chest, and sat sleeping in front of his
fire for hours.

As the evening wore on, Joe Chegg came
sauntering by, and then returned, so as to
get a casual glance in at the window. Then
he had another, and satisfied at last that the
old man was fast asleep, he stood watching
him till he saw by the failing fire that the
sleeper was about to awaken, when he drew
back, and softly and thoughtfully went away.

Just before twelve the old man took his
lanthorn, went to the door, and looked out ;
stood for a while, and then, with an activity
not to be expected of one of his years, he
walked sharply and silently in the direction
of the churchyard, keeping a keen look-out
for interlopers. But his walk beneath the
glittering stars was uninterrupted, and he
made his way silently to the back of the
church, looked about him, and, seeing no
one, unlocked the iron gate and the mausoleum
door, and then turned to wait.

But as lie turned, he started, for a hand
was laid upon his shoulder.

*' Why, doctor, I didn't hear you come."

I was sitting there waiting," said North.
'' Quick ! "

He pressed the door, and looked right
into the dark place, where he had not been
since Tom Candlish was lifted out and
placed by the roadside on the night of the
encounter ; while now it seemed to the
sexton that his companion was beset by a
feverish energy and desire to continue his
task.

All rio-ht, doctor— all rio-ht ! Wait till
I ore a lio-ht," Q-rumbled the old man, after
he had closed the door. " That's it. There
you are. Brought the curdle ? "

'' Yes."

*you won't want me, and I'm a bit
tired and wearied out to-night. Ha, that's
it ! Good stuff", doctor. Thanks, doctor.
Hah— h— h ! "

He tossed off the potent dram that was
handed to him, and gave back the silver
cup, which fitted upon the end of the doctor's

R 2

little flask. Then, quite as a matter of habit
he went to the ledge where he had so often
sat, and, after muttering for a few minutes,
fell ofl" into an easy sleep.

North had stood motionless after lighting
his shaded lamp, evidently deep in thought ;
but a heavy breathing from the corner of
the solemn place roused him, and he lifted
the lanthorn, crossed to the sleeper, and held
the light to his face.

Asleep ! " he muttered, returning to the
great stone slab, and setting down the light.
'' What's that ? " he cried sharply ; and,
starting back, he looked wildly about the
place.

How absurd ! " he muttered, after satisfying
himself that they were alone. " Want
of sleep. My nerves are shaken, and this
incessant pain seems too much for me. But
I will succeed. She shall see my success,
and learn that I am not a man to be cast
aside and crushed by her. Yes, I will
succeed. It cannot be too late."

He seized the white sheet that covered
the subject of his study, but instead of drawing

it o'entlv aside, as ^Yas his wont, he gave
it a sharp snatch, lifted the lamp, and gazed
down, thinking of what steps he should take
next.

So many days since," he muttered ; " so
many clays. It cannot be too late. Now to
make up for lost time."

He turned up his cuffs, took a small
bottle from where it stood upon the slab,
and was in the act of removing the stopper,
when he uttered a cry of horror, and darted
towards the door, dropping the bottle upon
the sawdust which covered the stone floor,
as he clapped his hands to his face, and then
reeled against the wall, to stand clinorino^ to
the stone-work of one of the niches.

There was a light there on the stone slab,
but it was as nothing to the li^^ht which had
flashed in, as it were, to his brain ; for he
had come there that night to finish his task,
and it was as though that task were already
complete, and that which he had been waiting
to achieve was ready to his hand, but ina
way which he had never anticipated, and
the revelation seemed more than he could bear.

SOMETHING COMING ON.

Horace North stood in the old mausoleum
for a while, appalled by the thoughts that
flooded his soul. The silence was awful.
At other times, wrapped up in his pursuit,
the presence of the dead had been as nothing
to him ; the fact that he was surrounded by
the grisly relics of generations of the Vanishes
had not troubled him in the least.
There was a professional air about everything
he did, and he watched results with
the keen eagerness that a chemist watches
his experiments.

But now, all at once, a change seemed to
have come over him. He had lost the spur
given to him by his love for Leo ; but, after

fighting hard with his misery, he had conquered,
and forced himself to go on with his
task solely in the cause of science, and a
strange awakening had been the result.

He had brought all the knowledge he
could collect to bear upon his task, and had
reached a certain point. Then he had been
checked, and the whole of his work had
been thrown out of gear ; so that now, when
he had taken it up again, feverishly determined
to carry it on to the end, he found
himself face to face with a horror which at
first his mind could hardly conceive.

He stood listening, and for a time it
seemed that he was alone — that Forelock
had been overcome by the dose he had administered
; but by degrees his stunned
senses took in the fact that the old man
was breathing calmly and peacefully, and
that he was not alone with the appalling
thought which troubled him.

I oucrht not to have prone on with ito

o

now," he said, at last. " I am mentally and
bodily shaken, and unfit to undertake such
a task. I'm ready to imagine all manner of

follies — weak as a frightened child. How
idiotic to fancy that ! "

For the time being his mental strength
was in statu quo, and, striding forward, he
made up his mind to clear away the apparatus
of instruments and chemicals, rouse up More-dock
to help restore everything to its normal
state, and continue his experiment when a
fresh opportunity occurred.

He glanced down at the uncovered body,
and then, turning to his various preparations,
he replaced instruments in cases, bottles in
the black bag, and nothing now remained
to do but to lay Luke Candlish where he
might continue his long sleep with his
fathers.

*poor wretch!" muttered North; '* if
that miserable interruption had not taken
place, you might have been the means of
doing more good to posterity than all your
predecessors could have achieved had they
lived on rio^ht until now.

Yes' he continued, as he made a final
examination previous to awakening More-dock,
"I had succeeded up to then. Decay

was arrested, and Nature seemed to be working
on my side to prove that I was right.
Now I must begin again, for it is as if I had
done nothing. No, no ; the toil has not been
thrown away. I have learned more than I
think for; I have "

He shrank back, and looked sharply round,
as if puzzled. He turned his gaze upon the
sleeping figure before him, and saw only too
plainly that the decay he had held at defiance
for a time had now definitely set in, and
yet how he could not tell, for mentally all
seemed misty and obscure. Something seemed
to su Digest that after all he had arrested the
progress of death.

Pish ! What strange fancy is upon me
now" ? " he exclaimed angrily.

But even as he said this in a low whisper,
he felt a consciousness that in some manner
his work had not been in vain. There
before him, surely enough, lay the remains
of Luke Candlish, passing back into the
elements of which they were composed —
ashes to ashes, dust to dust ; but the man
did not seem to him to be dead. There

was a feeling almost like oppression troubling
him and making him feel that lie had succeeded
— that he had stayed the flight of
the hale, strong man, but not wholly ; that
his work had partially been successful, and
that had he continued, a complete triumph
would have been the result.

^' Absurd ! " he muttered, jerking the cloth
over the subject of his experiment, and
going towards Forelock, but only to spin
round, as if he had been arrested by a hand
clapped suddenly upon his shoulder.

He stared sharply round the vault again
and then laughed aloud.

'how childish !" he exclaimed. *swell,
no," he added thoughtfully ; " it is a lesson
worth learning how, under certain circumstances
connected with violence and terrible
mental distress, the brain acts as in a case
of delirium tremens. I was not fit to come
here to-night. Better finish, go home, and

sleep and forget," he added softly, '' if

I can.

I must be going mad," he exclaimed the
next moment ; and, making an effort over

himself, he sat down upon the edge of
the stone slab to try and think out consistently
the mental trouble which kept
attacking him.

'' It cannot be that," he said, at last. " I
am perfectly cool and consistent ; I know
everything about me. I can go rio;ht back
through my experiments to the beginnings
analyse every thought and feeling, and yet I
cannot master this idea."

He sat thinking and gazing at the body
by his side, with its form grotesquely
marked through the coverings sheet.

'rit is orettinof the better of me," he said
aloud, " and I must not give way. Lunacy
is often the development of one idea, while
in other respects, the patient is compos "mentis.
No, no ; a lunatic could not feel as I do.
I am too calm and self-contained, and yet
here it is. Great Heaven ! is it possible
that I could have arrested the ethereal, the
spiritual, part of this man — have retained
his essence here, while the body is going
back to decay ?'*

He stood staring down at the slab from

which he had started, his eyes dilated, and
a wild look of horror in his countenance, till
once more the teachings of his scientific
education combined with the man's strong
common-sense to bring calm matter-of-fact
reasoning to bear.

Yes," he said, '* it's time I went home
to bed ; and tomorrow I'll ask old Benson
to come over and look after my patients
while I go to the seaside and look after
myself. I want bodily and mental rest.
Here, old chap, wake up ! "

Forelock started to his feet and stared
at the doctor, for he had been rudely
awakened by a heavy slap on the back,
while North in turn shrank back and stared
at the sexton, as if astounded at what had
taken place — an act so foreign to his ordinary
way.

You shouldn't do that, doctor," grumbled
the old man, rubbing his shoulder in a testy
way. "Works is a bit shaky, and you jar
em up."

I — I beg your pardon, Forelock," stammered
North confusedly.

Oh, it don't matter much, doctor, only
I was in a beautiful sleep, and dreaming I'd
gone to see my Dally as was living in a
great house — quite the lady, and the man
soincr to give me a e^lass o' something; when
you hit me on the back and woke me.
Done ? "

Yes. Help me," said North hastily.
'^ The experiment is at an end."

Well, I ain't sorry, doctor. I ain't sorry
for some things. Hey ! but you have been
busy clearing up. Quite done, then ? "

Yes, quite done. We'll leave everything
as it should be to-night."

'morning', you mean, doctor. Well, all
right."

The ghastly task was quickly performed,
the old man displaying a surprising activity
as he replaced the ornamental coffin-lid and
screws, after which the place seemed to have
resumed its former state.

"No one won't come to see whether the
lead coffin's soldered down, eh, doctor ? "
chuckled the old man, after giving the heavy
casket a final thrust with his shoulder to

get it exactly in its place. " They don't do
that only when the coroner's set to work,
and people think there's been poisoning."

"No, old chap," cried North, slapping the
sexton on the shoulder in a jocular way.
*there, have a drop of brandy. After me;
rd rather drink first."

Forelock stared again as the doctor produced
a second flask from his pocket, poured
some spirit gurgling out into the flattened
silver cup, and tossed it off.

*' That's good brandy, old man. Stunning.
Here you are."

** Doctor's glad he's finished his job,"
lashed the sexton. "No wonder. I wouldn't
ha' been a patticary for no money. Thanks,
sir. Hah ! that's good stuff. That goes into
your finger-ends ; but that other stuff's best :
goes right to the roots of your hair and into
your toes. Bare stuff'; good brandy."

Yes, you old toper," cried North ; and
then he seemed to drag his hand down just
as he was raising it to slap the old man
once more upon the shoulder.

Toper, eh, doctor ? No ; I like a drop

now and then, just to do a man good. He
was a toper — Squire Luke, yonder."

"Yes," said North slowly, as he poured
out some more brandy and tossed it off.
"The poor fellow used to drink."

*'Hi— hi— hi!" chuckled Forelock. "Yes;
they say he used to drink, doctor. Job's
done, eh ? "

He stared hard at the flask, and in so peculiar
a manner that North poured out some more.

Here, have another drop, old chap," he
cried; " i'll warm you up."

Thanks, doctor, thanks. Hah I yes ;
it's good stuff. Does you good too. Makes
you cheery like, and free. Why, doctor, I
didn't know you could be so hearty ; you
keep a man like me a long ways off" in
general. What's the matter — not well ? "

"Eh?" said North, speaking strangely.
I'm not well, Forelock. I'll get out of
this stifling place."

Stifling ? Nay, it's not stifling ; you only
say so because you're done. Here, let me
carry the tool bag, as you may say."

The bag was heavy, for packed within it

was the lamp as well as the doctor's bottles,
and such instruments as he had not put in
his pocket.

Looks precious queer," muttered the old
man, going to and unfastening the door.
Ready, sir ? "

North did not answer, but followed the
sexton, after a hurried glance round.

It's all right, sir ; nothing left," muttered
Forelock, extinguishing the candle in his Ian-thorn.
'why, any one would think he was
growing steered. Brandy upsets some, and
does others good."

The old man closed the massive door of
the mausoleum, and locked the gates of the
iron railing, and as he did so. North uttered a
low sigh full of relief, as if with the shutting
up of the grim receptacle certain troublous
feelings had been dismissed, and a strange
haunting sensation had gone.

'* Repose you'd like me to take the bag onto
my place, doctor, and bring it up to the
Manor House to-night ? "

'' Yes, I should," said North hastily ; " 111
talk to you then, Forelock. I'll "

He shuddered, and in place of parting at
once from the old man, he kept close to his
side, and followed him into his cottage, where
he sat down while the old sexton drew the
thin curtain over the casement and struck a
light.

*' Why, doctor," he said, looking wonderingly
at the white, scared face before him ;
*' you'd better go home and mix yourself a
dose. You've jot something dominion

Yes," said North, with a ghastly smile :
'" I'm afraid I have something comines on.
No — no ! Nonsense ! I'm tired. Not quite
got over my fall. I shall be better soon."

The old sexton shook his head and went
to his locked-up chest, in which, with a
good deal of rattling of keys, he deposited
the doctor's hag;. He was in the act of
shutting the heavy lid, when something
made him turn to where he had left his
companion seated, and he stared in amazement,
for the chair was tenantless !

He had not heard North start from his
seat and literally rush out of the cottage, as
if pursued by some invisible force.

VOL. n. s

*' MY DEAR NORTH ! "

"No, sir, he isn't at home," said Mrs. Milt,
trying to smile at the curate, but only
succeeding in producing two icy wrinkles —
one on either side of her lips.

Some one ill, Mrs. Milt ? "

Well, really, sir, I can't say. Master
shut himself in his study last thing — ashe
will persist in ruining his health and
his pocket in lamps and candles — and I
went to bed as usual, although mortally
in dread of fire, for master is so careless
with a light. Then I repose some one must
have come in the night and fetched him.
His breakfast has been waiting hours, and
oh, here he comes ! "

For at that moment North came round
the end of the house, having entered his
garden right at the bottom by the meadow,
his dew-wet boots and the dust upon his
trousers showing that he must have been
walking far.

'breakfast's quite ready, sir," said Mrs.
Milt austerely, as soon as North came within
hearing.

"Yes — yes," he said impatiently, as he
waved her away. "Ah, Salis ! Come in."

Why, how fagged you look ! Who is
ill?"

111 ? Who is ill ? " said North wonderingly.
" Oh, I see ! Well, I am."

Yes, that's plain enough," said Salis
anxiously. " My dear fellow, you are not at
all up to the mark."

Not up to the mark, old chap ? Eight
as the mail ! Here, come in, and have some
breakfast."

This was said with so much boisterous,
coarse jollity, that the curate could not help
a wondering look. North saw it, and his
countenance assumed a look of intense pain.

** Did you want me ? " lie said, closing
the breakfast-room door, and speaking in a
different tone entirely.

"Well, old fellow, I thought Fd runover
just to consult you."

*' Not ill ? " said North, in a voice full
of anxiety, but only to supplement it with
a sharp, back-handed blow in the chest, and
exclaim, in quite a rollicking way : " See !
you ! I say, you're in tip-top condition ! "
And then he burst into a hearty roar.

'* I don't know about tip-top condition,"
said Salis tartly, " for I'm not at all well.
I'm a good deal bothered, old fellow, about
about some matters ; and you'll not mind
my coming to see you about things that
one would not go to a doctor about, but to
a friend."

I am very, very glad to have you
come to me as a friend, Salis," said North
earnestly. "Anything I can do I — is it
money ? "

"Money? Tut— tut ! No! When did
you ever know me a borrower, man ? I
beg your pardon. North," he added, beaming

at his friend. "That's just like you — so
good and thoughtful ; but no, no — no money !
Old Colonies was right."

Just then Mrs. Milt entered with the
coffee, toast, and a covered dish, a second
cup and saucer being on her tray.

Well, yes ; Til have another cup," said
Salis, smiling and nodding ; and, directly
after, the old friends were seated together
opposite to each other, but with North leaving
his breakfast untasted, while Salis seemed to
enjoy his number two.

You're not eating, old fellow ! I say,
you know you're ill. It's my turn now to
prescribe."

*' Only a little feverish. I have been and
had a long walk."

Ah, that's right. Nature is splendid for
that sort of thing."

Yes," said North quickly. " Now, what
can I do for you ? "

He winced as he spoke, for he expected to
hear something about Leo.

"Well, the fact is, old fellow, you knov/
that my surplice was stolen."

North shrank again, but nodded sharply.

Well, old fellow, I banteringly said something
about the loss being severe to a poor
man."

"I — I wish I had known," said North,
with a frank smile.

You mean if you had you would have
given me one."

Yes, that is what I mean," said North.

And if you had, I'd have cut you, sir,
dead ! Sure it was not you ? "

^'Not me?"

Who sent me a present of a remarkably
fine new surplice."

Certainly not."

*' Then it was she."

I do not understand you."

*' Look here ! there is only one person
who could have sent such a present, and it
must be Mrs. Berens."

Ah, you sly dog ! Oh, shame ! shame !
Ha — ha — ha ! " roared North. *' The pretty
widow — eh ? That's pulse-feeling, and putting
out the tongue, and how are we this morning !
Ha— ha— ha ! "

Hartley Salis lead a small piece of broiled
ham upon his fork, being a man of excellent
appetite ; and at his friend's first words,
uttered in a most singular tone, he let the
fork drop with a clatter, pushed his chair a
little way back, and stared !

*' I — I'm very sorry," faltered North, in a
most penitent tone.

My dear North ! Why, what is the
matter with you ? "

A little — er — feverish, I think ; that is
all ! "

'^ One is not used to hear such outbursts
from you, old fellow," said Salis ; and there
was a tinge of annoyance in his tone.

"Pray, pray go on. I — er — hardly know
what I said."

Salis drew his chair up again, picked up
the fork, raised the piece of brown ham once,
set it down, and then took up his cup and
sipped the coffee, with his face resuming its
unruffled aspect.

I'm not cross, old fellow — only nettle.
It's so unlike you to attempt to — well, to
use our old term — chaff me. Besides which,

this thing is a great source of annoyance tome.
I feel as if I cannot accept the present
as if it laid me under an obligation ta
Mrs. Berens ; and, really, I should be glad
to have your advice. What would you
do?"

'' What would I do ? " cried North, in a
coarse, rasping voice. '* Why, you know what
you want me to say. Get out, you jolly old
humbug ! "

Sir ! "

^' Go along with you I What are you todo
with the surplice ? Why, wear it, and
lend it to old May afterwards when he
comes down to marry you and the pretty
widow."

Horace North ! " cried the curate indignantly.


*' Sit down, and none of your gammon,
you transparent old humbug! Why, I can
see right through you, just as if you were so
much glass."

Salis had pushed back his chair, and now
rose, just as North burst out passionately :

No, no, Salis ; don't go — for pity's sake
don't go. I have so much to say to you."

If it is of a piece with what you have
abbacy said, Horace North, I would prefer to
be ignorant of its import."

The doctor had risen too, and caught the
back of his chair, which he stood grasping
with spasmodic force, as, suffering an agony
he coukl not have expressed, he saw his friend
stalk solemnly along the path to the great
gate, which swung after him to and fro for
some seconds before the iron latch closed with
a loud click.

Heaven help me ! — what shall I do ? "
groaned North, as he threw himself upon the
couch, and covered his face with his hands.
"What does this mean ? What new horror is
this ? Have I lost all power over thought
and tongue ? "

!May I clear away, sir? "said a sharp,
clear voice.

North started as if he had been stuns:,
but he did not uncover his face ; and he dared
not speak, lest words should gush forth for

VOL. 11. T

which lie could not hold himself accountable
—and to Mrs. Milt !

Under the circumstances, he nodded his
head quickly, and lay back with bis eyes closed.

You do too much, sir," said the housekeeper,
speaking authoritatively. " You work
too hard."

North's irritability was terrible, but he
kept it down.

It's my impression that you're going to
be ill," continued Mrs. Milt, as she went on
clearing the table.

Strange words seemed to be effervescing
in Horace North's breast, and he set his teeth
hard, for he felt that if he spoke he should
say something which would horrify the old
housekeeper and startle himself.

Well, you can't blame me," cried Mrs.
Milt, going out and shutting the door too
sharply to be polite.

North was alone, and he rose up with his
hands clenched to utter words of wonder as
to what his friend would think ; but, instead,
he burst into a curious fit of laughter and
uttered a mocking curse.

The next moment he had sunk back upon
his couch with his hands clasped, as he gazed
with bent head straight before him between
his thick brows, right away into the future,
and mentally asking himself what that future
was to be.

END OF VOL. II.

CHARLES Dickens Aid EVASF, CHT?-TAL Palace PKES6.

ill*'.:;.

THE MAN WITH A SHADOW.

A RECOILING Vengeance. By Peaitk Barrett. 2 vols.

DIANA BARRINGTON. By Mks. Ceokee, 3 vols.

A LEAL Last. By Basil. 2 vols.

THE LAST HURDLE. A Story or Sporting and Courting.
33. 6d.

IN OPPOSITION. By G. M. J. Blackburn. 3 vols.

ROBERT HOLT'S ILLUSION. By Miss Linskill. 6s.

WARD & DOWNEY, Publishers, London.

MAF WITH A SHADOW

BY

G. MANVILLE Penn,

Author OF " OXE MAID'S MISCHIEF," "THE ilASTEE OF THE Ceremonies.
Double CrS^SIS-G," ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. III.

LONDON :

WARD AND DOWNEY,

12, YORK Street, Covent GARDEN, W.C.

1888.

A1l rights reserved']

V.3

COlSTTEl^TS.

CHAPTER I.

PAGE

AN Unsuitable MESSENGER 1

Chapter 11.

MRS. BEREXS IS WOUNDED 10

CHAPTER III.

Forelock WRITES A NOTE 21

CHAPTER IV.

THE OPEN WINDOW 35

CHAPTER V.

A WAYWARD SISTER 43

CHAPTER YI.

PAG-E

THE DOCTOR IS ECCENTRIC 63

CHAPTER VII.

HAUNTED 74

CHAPTER Viii.

COUSIN THOMPSON'S DUTY 86

CHAPTER IX.

COUSIN Thompson's tooth-ache . . . .104

CHAPTER X.
A visit in the dark 114

CHAPTER XL

SALIS MAKES A DISCOVERY . . . . .132

CHAPTER XII.

A STORMY INTERVIEW 143

CHAPTER XIII.

PAGE

MRS. MILT TAKES UP LUNCH . . . . .150

CHAPTER XIV.

AN OPPORTUNE ARRIVAL 157

CHAPTER XV.
dally's plans 163

CHAPTER XVI.
forelock's medicine 178

CHAPTER XVII.

BESIEGED 185

CHAPTER XVIII.

ONE WAY OF ESCAPE 192

CHAPTER XIX.

VISION OR REAL 198

Chapter XX.

PAGE

A RACE FOR LIBERTY 205

CHAPTER XXI.

CLEANING A ROOM . . . . . . 213

CHAPTEE XXII.

MISSING THE MAIL TRAIN 230

CHAPTER Xxii.

DALLY'S HYSTERICS 241

CHAPTER XXIV.

OUT OF THE SHADOW 249

CHAPTER I.

AN UNSUITABLE MESSENGER.

•'•' Hartley, you horrify me," said Mary, after
she had listened to her Brother s account of
his visit. " He must have been ill or under
some strange influence."

Influence ? " cried Salis drily ; " well,
that means drink, Mary."

'' Oh, no, no, no ! " cried the poor girl
warmly. " He told you he was ill, and he
may have been taking some very potent
medicine."

** Extremely," said Salis.

'' Hartley, for shame ! " cried Mary, with
her eyes flashing. *' You left here an hour
ago full of faith and trust in the friend of

VOL. III. B

many years' standing. You find him ill and
peculiar in his manner, and you come back
here ready to think all manner of evil of him.
Is this just ? "

But he was so very strange and peculiar,
my child. You cannot imagine how queer."

'hartley!" cried Mary warmly; "how
can you ! Horace North must be very ill,
and needs his friend's help. Your account
of his acts and words suggests delirium. Go
back to him at once."

Go back to him ? "

*' Yes ; at once. Have you forgotten his
goodness to us — how he snatched Leo back
from the jaws of death ? "

You think I ought to go, Mary ? " said
Salis dubiously.

I shall think my brother is under some
strange influence — suffering from wounded
pride — if he does not frankly go to our old
friend's help."

I'll go back at once," cried Salis excitedly.
*' Why, Mary, when you were
active and strong, I always thought I had
to teach and take care of you. Now you

are an invalid, yon seem to teach and guide
me*'

No, no," said Mary tenderly. '' It is
only that I lie here for many hours alone,
thinking of what is best for us all. Not yet,
Hartley : I want to say something else''

Yes," he said, going down on one knee
by her couch, and holding her hand ; '* what
is it ? "

'' I want to say a few words to you about
Leo," said Mary, after a pause.

About Leo ? " said Salis uneasily.

Yes, dear. I tell you I lie here for many
hours thinking about you both. I want to
speak about Leo and — Mr. North."

'' Yes," said Salis gravely, as Leo's
manner when the servant came from the
Hall flashed upon his mind. '^ What do you
wish to say ? "

Do you consider that there is any
engagement between them ? "

I hardly know what to say. North
seemed deeply attached to her."

*' Yes," said Mary ; " but I have felt puzzled
by his manner lately. He has not been."

B 2

** And he has not sent her flowers as he
used."

'*No; I have noticed that. Has Mr.
North felt that Leo has slighted him in anyway
? "

Why, Mary," cried Salis excitedly,
what a brain you have ! My dear child,
you have hit upon the cause of his strange
manner. You noticed — you noticed Leo's
manner when the news came of Candlish's
illness — for I suppose I must call it so."

*' Yes," said Mary, with a sigh. " I noticed
it."

** And North must have seen something.
Mary, my girl, what shall I do ? "

What shall you do ? "

Yes ; I am divided between my sister
and my friend. There ! I must speak out.
It would be the saving of Leo if she could
become North's wife ; and yet, much as I love
her and wish for her happiness, I feel as if I
am being unjust to North to let matters go
farther."

Mary lay back with her eyes half closed
for some minutes before she felt that she

could trust her voice so that it should not
betray her.

It would be for Leo's happiness could
she say truly that she could love and honour
Horace North," Mary whispered at last ; '' but
it will never be, Hartley. Leo will never
marry as we wish."

Tm afraid not," said Salis sadly ; " and
the more I think of it, the more it seems tome
that you have hit upon North's trouble.
Leo's anxiety about that scoundrel has disgusted
poor Horace. What shall I do ? "

Your friend is ill," said Mary sadly ;
'* act as a friend should. Leave the rest : we
can do nothings there."

My poor darling ! " said Salis, " you are
the good angel of our little home. There,
I'll go to North at once."

Meanwhile a conversation was 2foinof on in
Leo's room.

She had suffered intensely during the past
few days, which had seemed to her like
months of suspense and agony. Every stroke
at the door had seemed to be a visitor to
expose her to her brother, or else she believed

it was North coming to reproach her ; and,
though she told herself that she would be
defiant and could tell him he was mad ever
to have thought about her, she shivered at
each step upon the gravel.

The scene in the vestry had shaken her
nerves terribly. The news of Tom Candlish's
serious injuries had added to her trouble ; and,
combined with this, there was the horrible
suspense as to her lover's state. In a way,
she was a prisoner, and any attempt to hear
news of the sufferer at the Hall would bringdown
upon her an angry reproof from her
brother.

After the news of his state, Tom Candlish's
name was not mentioned at the Eectory. She
dared not ask or show by word or look the
anxiety she felt, and yet there were times
when she would have given years of her life
for a few words of tidings.

Unable to bear the suspense any longer,
and after thinking of a dozen schemes, she at
last decided upon one, which was the most unlucky
she could have devised.

It was the nearest to her hand, and, in

quite a gambling spirit, she Snatched at it
recklessly.

She was in her room, reading, when Dally
entered.

'•' Is my brother in ? " she said quietly.

'•'Yes, miss; along with Miss Mary,
talking."

Are you very busy, Dally ? "

Yes, miss, 'most worked to death," said
the girl tartly.

*' But a walk would do you good, Dally.
Would you take a note for me ? "

'' Take a note, miss ? " said Dally with her
eyes twinkling ; '' oh, of course, miss ! Til go
and ask Miss Mary to let me go ! "

Xo, no — stop, you foolish girl ! " said
Leo, with a half laugh. '' There, I'll be plain
with you. I don't want my sister to know.
You would take a letter for me to Mrs. Berens,
Dally ? "

Master said I was never to take any
notes for anybody," said Dally sharply.

But you will make an exception, Dally !
Take a note for me, and bring me an answer,
and I will give you a sovereign."

To Mrs. Berens, miss ? "

Leo looked at her meaningly, and the girl
returned the gaze.

'every well, miss; I'll take it," she said.
'' Must I go right to the Hall ? "

*eyes, Dally, this evening, and nobody
must know. Insist upon seeing him yourself
and bring me back an answer by word of
mouth, if he cannot write."

"Yes, miss."

Can I trust you ? "

Trust me, miss ? Why, of course ! " cried
Dally, for Leo was giving her the opportunity
she had sought. For days past she had been
trying to find some way of getting a word
with Tom Candlish ; but, so far, it had been
impossible. Now the way had been put into
her hands.

"Thanks, miss," she said, dropping a
curtsy, as she slipped a long letter and a
sovereign into her pocket. '* And if I don't
settle your affair there, madam'' she said to
herself, " I don't know Tom Candlish, and he
don't know quite what Dally Watlock can do
when she's served like this."

Then I may trust you. Dally ? " whispered
Leo.

Trust me, miss ?" said the girl, looking
at her innocently; "why, of course you
can'

To-night, then, after dark I "

'■ Yes, miss, after dark ; and if I'm asked
for, you'll say you give me leave to go and see
poor granada, who isn't well."

Yes, Dally, I will."

*' And she's been to boarding school, and
thinks herself clever," said Dally, as soon as
she was alone. " Go after dark, miss ? Yes,
I will. They say people's soft when they're
sick and weak. Perhaps so. Tom may be so
now. After dark ! " she muttered with a little
cough. '' Yes, miss ; you may trust me ! I'll
^0 after dark ! "

MRS. BERENS IS WOUNDED.

Is anything the matter, Mrs. Berens ? "

*' Matter, my dear Mary ? " said the lady,
in a piteous voice. " Oh, yes ; but how
beautiful and soft and patient you look ! "

She bent down and kissed the invalid,
sighed, and wafted some scent about the
room.

'* I'm a great deal worried, dear, about
money matters, and — and other things."

Money, Mrs. Berens ? I thought you
were rich."

*' Not rich, dear, but well off. But money
is a great trouble ; for Mr. Thompson, my
agent in London, worries me a great deal,
investing and putting it for me somewhere

else. He says I am wasting my opportunities
— that he could double my income ;
and when he comes down, really, my dear,
his attentions are too marked for those of a
solicitor."

'• mr. Thompson is a relative of Dr.
North, is he not ? " said !Mary gravely.

'•'Yes; he asked Dr. North to introduce
him, and the doctor did," said Mrs.
Berens ruefully. '' But it was not about the
money ; it was about Dr. North himself I
came to speak."

"' Indeed ! " said Mary, with a faint tinge
of colour showing.

Yes, my dear ; and I don't want you to
think me a busybody, but I could not help
noticing that he seemed attached to Leo ;
and it is troubling me for Leo's sake."

'swill you speak plainly, Mrs. Berens?"

'' Yes, dear ; but you frighten me — you
are so severe. There ! I will speak out !
Leo is en^ao-ed to Dr. North, is she not ? "

*' No," said Mary, after a pause ; " there
is no engagement."

'* Ah, then that makes it not quite so bad."

"Mrs. Berens!"

Oh, don't be so severe, Mary. I was
poorly yesterday — a little hysterical — the
weather ; and I sent for Dr. North."

'^ Yes."

He came, dear, and no medical man
could have been nicer than he was at first ;
but all at once he seemed to change — to
become as if he were two people ! "

"Mrs. Berens!"

Yes, dear. I did not know what to make
of him. He was like one possessed, my dear ! "

"Mrs. Berens!"

Yes, dear ; it's quite true. One minute
he was sympathetic and kind, and the next
laughing at and bantering me in a strange
tone."

You must be mistaken."

No, my dear. He told me it was all
nonsense, and that I was as hearty as a
brick. What an expression to use to a
lady ! And then he apologised, and spoke
calmly, giving me excellent advice."

Mary wiped the dew from her white forehead.


*' And then, my dear," continued Mrs.
Berens, *' directly after he called me his
pretty buxom widow. I felt as if I should
sink through the floor with indignant shame."

"Are you not mistaken, Mrs. Berens?"
said Mary, whose voice grew tremulous and
almost inaudible.

'* Mistaken, my dear ? Oh, no ; that is
what he said ; and then he seemed to feel
ashamed of it, and I saw him colour up."

•'' It seems impossible," muttered Mary ;
and then she recalled her brother's words,
and a hand seemed to clutch her heart.

"Of course," continued Mrs. Berens, *'I
could not order him to leave the house ; I
could only look at him indignantly."

And he apologised ? " said Mary eagerly.

"Apologised? No, my dear; he made
matters worse by his low bantering — chaff,
young men call it — till my face burned, and
I felt so shocked that I was ready to burst
into tears. For I always did like Dr.
North. Such a straightforward, gentlemanly
man. You always felt such confidence in
him."

Mary looked at her wildly.

'* Oh, no, my dear," continued her visitor,
taking her look as a question; "nothing of
the kind. I should have smelt him directly.
He kissed me. He had not been drinking.
And it's so horrible, for I could never call
him in attain."

Hush 1 " whispered Mary. *' Pray don't
speak of it before my brother."

"Before your brother ! Oh, no, my dear.
I should sink with shame. But why did
you say that ? '*

Because he might come in, and I must
think about it all before I mention it to
him."

But— but Mr. Salis "

My brother is not out."

Not out ? I understood your maid to
say he had gone to the church," cried Mrs.
Berens, starting up in alarm.

She was too late, for directly after Salis
entered, with the presentation surplice over
his arm.

Some one turned red in the face. It may
have been Mrs. Berens, or it may have been

Salis ; and, in either case, the colour was reflected.
Certainly both looked warm.

Salis was the first to recover his equanimity
and greet the visitor.

I did not know you had company, Mary"'
he said. " I was going to ask you to alter
the buttons at the neck of this. It is too
tight."

Then you are going to wear it ? " said
Mary, with the first display of malicious fun
that had shone in her eyes since her accident.

*' Wear it ? Well, yes ; I suppose I must,"
said Salis gruffly. **I can't afford to buy
myself a new one. Only a beggarly, hard-up
curate, you see, Mrs. Berens."

Oh, Mr. Salis ! " faltered the lady.

And I really was ashamed of my surplice
on Sunday. Mary here patched and darned
all she could ; but I looked a sad tatterdemalion.
Didn't you think so ? "

"I? Oh, no, Mr. Salis; I was thinking
of your discourse."

But I didn't wear it during the discourse,"
said Salis slowly.

Oh, of course. I should not have noticed

it during the prayers," said Mrs. Berens, who
was strung up now.

"That means that the prayers are better
worth listening to than my sermons ? " said
Salis quickly.

I did not say so' retorted Mrs. Berens,
who momentarily grew more dignified and
distant of manner, while Mary looked from
one to the other, surprised into enjoyment of
the novel scene.

"Ah, well, never mind," said Salis half-bitterly.
"Never mind the sermon, Mrs.
Berens."

"Is not that rather bad advice for one's
pastor to give to a member of his flock, Mr.
Salis ? "

"I'm afraid it is," said Salis, laughing.
*' I am beaten. Now it's my turn, madam,"
he added to himself " What do you think
of that, Mrs. Berens ? " and he held out and
displayed the surplice, as a modiste would a
dress.

It looks very white, Mr. Salis," said the
lady, fanning herself with a highly-scented
handkerchief.

Are you a judge of the quality of linen,
Mrs. Berens ? "

Well, not a judge ; but I think J can
tell that this is very fine."

*' Exactly," said Salis ; "very fine, ma'am.
Do you know what this is ? "

'* What it is — ahem ! I suppose it is a
surplice."

*eyes, ma'am, but it is something more,"
said Salis sharply ; " it is an insult ! "

An insult, Mr. Salis ? "

Yes, ma'am, an insult ; an anonymous
insult ! Somebody had said to himself or
herself, * This poor curate has lost his surplice,
and can't afford another without going
into debt ; I'll buy him one and send him —
carriage paid.' "

*'Mr. Salis!"

"Yes, ma'am. That is the state of the
case. All right, Mary, my dear ; I know
what I am saying. Perhaps Mrs. Berens
may know who sent it."

''Mr. Salis! I "

Stop, stop, ma'am ; pray don't tell me.
I would rather not know ; it would be too

VOL. in. c

painful to me. I only wish you, if you
happen to know, to tell the anonymous
donor what I feel about the matter. I was
ofoincf to send the robe back to the maker ;
but, on second thoughts, I said to myself, I
cannot afford a new one, so will swallow my
pride, and wear it regularly, as a garb of

penance, as a standing reproach to the

giver."

There was quite a strong odour of patchouli
in the room, for Mrs. Berens was
whisking her handkerchief about wildly.

** That's all I wanted to say, ma'am. Mary,
you'll alter those buttons. I've tried it on,
and my breast swelled so much with honest
indignation, I suppose, that the fastenings
nearly flew off. Good-bye, Mrs. Berens.
Oh ! pray shake hands, ma'am. We are not
going to be bad friends because I spoke out
honestly and plainly."

^'Oh, no! Mr. Salis," faltered the lady,
who had hard work to keep back her tears.

I only want the donor to know how I
feel about an anonymous gift, which stings
a poor man who has any pride in him."

"But clergymen should not have any
pride," said Mary, coming to Mrs. Berens'
help.

Quite right, my dear, but they have, and
a great deal too sometimes."

He nodded shortly to both in turn, and
stalked out of the room.

Mrs. Berens had risen. So had the tears,
in spite of a very gallant fight. She made
one more effort to keep them back, but her
emotion was too strong ; and, woman-like,
seeking sympathy of woman, she sank upon
her knees by Mary's side, sobbing as if her
heart would break.

Good-bye, Mary, dear," she said at last.
I'm a weak, simple woman ; but I can feel,
mid very deeply too."

This, after a long weeping communion,
during which Mary Salis understood the
gentle-hearted widow better than she had
ever grasped her character before.

There was a very tender embrace, and
then, with her veil drawn down tightly, Mrs.
Berens left.

'* Why not ? " said Mary to herself as she

C 2

lay back thinking. "She is very good and
amiable, and she loves him very much.
And if I die — poor Hartley will seem to
be alone. — Why not ? "

Then her mind reverted to her visitors
words, and a cloud of trouble sat upon her
brow.

What can it mean ? " she mused. '' And
I so helpless here ! " she sighed at last ; " compelled
to hear everything from others, unable
to do anything but lie here and think''

Forelock WRITES A Note.

"He's took to it — he's took to it ! " muttered
Forelock, as he scratched one side of his
nose with the waxy end of his pipe.

'^Ah, it's wonderful what a many doctors
do take to it, and gallop themselves off with
it. Begins with a drop to keep 'em up
sometimes, I repose, and then takes a little
more and a little more."

The old man sat smoking and musing
over a visit he had just had from North.

'' I don't like it," he said to himself. '* He
mayn't be quite right some day when I call
him in, and then it may be serious for me ;
I don't like it at all.

*' It's no wonder when a man's trot all

sorts o' things as lie can mix up into cortes,
if he feels a bit down. That was prime stuff
as he give me in the moslem. Hah ! that
was stuff. Then that other as went down
into your fingers and toes, as it did right
to the very nails. Why, I shouldn't ha been
surprised if he'd brought Squire Luke back
to life with it.

Hi, hi, hi ! " he chuckled ; " never mind
about Squire Luke; but I should like him
by-and'by — by-and-by, of course — to have a
bottle on it mixed ready to give me, and
bring me back. Phew 1 that's a nasty
subject to think about."

He smoked rather hurriedly for sometime,
and there was a curious, haggard
expression in his face ; but it died out under
the influence of his tobacco, and, after a time,
he gave a low chuckle and shook all over.

' Old Buck ! ' that's what he said. ' Old
Buck,' and give me a slap i' the chest, as
nearly knocked all the wind out o' me. Nota
bit like him to do. Not professional. As
soon have expected Parson Salis to call me
Old Cock. Ah, well ! doctor's only a man

after all, and no book-learning won't make
him anything else ; but I don't like a doctor
as takes to his drops.

*' 'Garnet brandy, or gin, or rum, or
whisky, or I should have smelt him, and
he spoke straight enough directly after. Ho
takes some stuff as he mixes up, and it makes
him ready to burst out rollicking like at
times ; but he recollects himself quickly again,
and seems sorry.

"Ay, but he looks bad, that he do. Looks
like a man who can't sleep — white and
wanly. Well, as long as he tends me right,
it don't matter. He paid up handsome for
all I did for him. Hi ! hi ! hi ! It was a
rum game. How's young squire now, I
wonder, and how's matters going on there ?
Ha ! now that's eurus. So sure as I begins
thinking about my Dally, she comes. Hallo,
my little princess, how do ? "

Oh, I am quite well, granada," said
Dally, entering the cottage, looking rather
flushed and heated. *' I'm in a great hurry,
but I thought I'd just run down and see
how you were."

He come with you ? " said the old man,
pointing over the little maid's shoulder.

She looked sharply round, caught sight
of Joe Chegg, and ran back and slammed
the door.

An idiot ! " she cried sharply. " He's
always following me about."

Going to let him marry you, Dally ? "

I should think not, indeed ! What nonsense,
granada."

Well, what have you come for, eh ?
How's squire ? "

Getting nearly well again."

Is he ? How do you know ? Were you
going up to Hall night afore last ? "

*^N "

Yes, you were. Dally," said the old man,
with a chuckle. " You needn't tell a lie. I
know. I often see you when you don't know.
You was going up to Hall."

Well, then, I was," said Dally defiantly,
*' and I don't care who knows."

'Kept Miss Leo, eh ? "

The old man chuckled hugely, and rubbed
his hands.

I don't mind bliss Leo knowing. She
does know," cried Dally. " Perhaps she sent
me."

*did she, though — did she, though ? Ay,
but she'll win him after all, Dally. She's
better and handsomer than you are, and
she's a teddy, Dally. You've got no chance
against she."

'haven't I, gran 'fa ? You'll see. But
not if I'm obliged to go up to the Hall
looking shabby and mean. You said I
should have a silk gown and a feather."

Did I ? Did I ? Oh, it was only my
joking, Dally. You're such a pretty gel,
you don't want silk dresses and feathers."

''No, I don't want *em," said Dally
sharply ; " but men do. They like to see us
dressed up. Squire Tom thinks I look a
deal nicer when I've got my best frock on."

Did he say so, Dally — did he say so ? "

"Never you mind, granada. Where's the
money you promised me ? "

"Nay, I've thought better of it. You
shall have it some day — when I'm dead and
gone."

No, no, granada, dear ; I don't want yoii
to die," whispered Dally, fondling him. " I
want you to live a long time yet, and come
and see me at the Hall."

Tchah ! you'll never get to be there.
It'll be Miss Leo."

^' Will it?" said Dally, with a toss of the
head. " We shall see about that. You'll
give me some money, won't you, granada ? "

Nay. You've never made them new
shirts yet."

*' I've been so busy, granada dear," cried
the girl. " Why, I've been up to the Hall
six times since I saw you last."

^' Up to Hall? Not alone?"

"Yes, and alone. Why not ?" said Dally
saucily. " Besides, Miss Leo sent me."

'' More than once ? "

Yes, granada ; often."

"Ay, that's it. I told you so. She's a
teddy, and she'll win that game."

"Will she?" said Dally drily; "when
she can't go up to see somebody, and sends
me?"

The old man drew the corners of his

mouth a long way apart in a hideous grin,
and then burst into a series of chuckles.

*' Why, Dally, my gel ; you are a wicked
one, and no mistake."

'• Oh, no, Tm not, granada. I'm only
fio-btiuo- for myself; and you said you'd
help me."

"And so I will, my pet ; but I can't spare
no money."

**WelI, I don't know that I want it yet,
granada ; but I want you to do something
else."

'• Ay, ay. What is it ? " said the old man
eagerly. " Not buy anything ? "

**No, not buy anything," said Dally,
divino her soft, round little arm down into
her pocket, to reach which she had to raise
one side of her dress. " I want you to write
something, granada."

Xay, I never write now. Write it yourself.
What you want me to write for, after
all the schooling you've had ? "

"Well, I have written something, granada,
but I want you to do it, too."

Dally had fished out a large, common-looking

Prayer Book, which opened easily in
two places, from each of which she took an
envelope, and laid upon the table. One was
directed, and on being opened she took out a
note. The other was blank, and with a folded
sheet of paper therein.

Dally was quite at home in the sexton's
cottage, and going to the mantelpiece she
took down a corked penny ink-bottle, and a
pen from out of a little common vase, while,
from their special place, she took the old
man's spectacles.

'now, granada," she said sharply, "I
want you to write nicely, just what I've
written there."

"What for? what for?" he cried, taking
up the note after adjusting his glasses.

To help me, granada. You said you
would."

*eyes, I said I would," he grumbled. ''I
said I would."

And it won't cost nothing, granada ; not
even a stamp," said the girl saucily.

"Hi — hi — hi! You're a wicked one,
Dally, that you are," he chuckled, as he took

the pen, and after a good many preliminaries,
settled himself down to write.

'' Do the envelope first, granada," whispered
the girl excitedly.

"The envelope first, my pet. Ay, ay, ay."

He bent over the table, and then, very
slowly and laboriously, copied the address ina
singularly good hand for one so old.

*' That's right," cried Dally, who was in a
fever of impatience, but dared not show it.
"Now the letter, granada."

"Ay, ay, I'll do it," he said, chuckling ashe
mastered the contents. "Don't you
hurry, my pet. I don't often use a pen
now. But I used to at one time, and there
wasn't many as "

"Oh, do go on writing, granada ! Quick,
quick! I want to get back."

Ay, ay, I'll do it," said the old man ;
and he devoted himself assiduously to his
task to the end.

There ! " he said ; " will that help you,
Dally ? "

"Yes, granada, dear," she cried. "But
you won't tell." •-.

Tell ? " he cried with a chuckle. " Nay,
I never tell. I'm as close as the holes I dig,
Dally. No one won't know from me'

As he chuckled and talked, the girl hastily
tore up the first note, and refolded and enclosed
the second. Moistening the envelope
flap with her little red tongue, which looked
quite pretty and flower-like, as it darted from
her really lips to the poisonous gum, with
a sharp '' good-bye ! " she thrust the envelope
into her book, and the book into her pocket,
to hurry back to the Eectory, conscious
that she was followed by Joe Chegg, and
never once turning her head.

That night Salis sat by the shaded lamp,
apparently reading, but a good deal troubled
about North, respecting whom he had heard
several disquieting rumours. Mary was
busily working, and Leo finishing a letter
to some relative in town.

Add anything you like to that for
Mary," she said, rising. " I'm very tired,
and shall go to bed."

Salis frowned slightly, for it jarred upon

bim that every uow and then his sister
should go off to her room just before he
rang for the servants to come in to prayers.

He said nothing, however ; the customary
good-nights were said, and the curate and
Mary were left alone.

Half-an-hour later, Dally and the homely
cook were summoned, the lesson and prayers
read, and after the closing of a door or two the
Rectory became very still.

ril just look round, dear, and then carry
you up ; or shall I take you first ? "

"No, Hartley, dear," said Mary; "go first.
Perhaps I may have something to say."

"No fresh trouble, I hope," thought Salis,
who remained ignorant that his sister intended
a few words of reproach concerning
Mrs. Berens, for as he stepped into the hall,
and stooped to slip the bolt, something
white, which seemed to have been slipped
under the door, caught his eye.

"Circulars here in Duke's Hampton!" he
said, picking up an envelope, and seeing that
it was addressed to him.

Here, Mary," he said, as he returned ;

some one wants us to lay in a stock of coals,
and "

He stopped short, and uttered quite a
gasp.

Hartley ! Is anything wrong ? "

He hesitated a moment, and then handed
the letter to his sister.

It was very short — only a few lines :

To Rev. H. Salts,

*' I think you ought a know bout sure
sister and her going hon, ask her ware she
is going lout tow nite at 12 'clock wen ure
abed.

*'A NONNYMUS/'

Mary's countenance looked drawn and old
as she let the note fall in her lap.

"For Heaven's sake don't look like that,
Mary," cried Salis angrily. '' I beg your
pardon, dear. How absurd ! An anonymous
letter from some village busybody. It
is not worth a second thought. There ! "

He held the note to the candle, and retained

it as loner as he could before tossing:
the frao'tnent left burning into the ornate.

o O a

'that's how the writer oiiojht to be
served," he cried. '' Now, bed."

He carried Mary to her chamber, silencing
her when she was about to speak ; and then,
after an affectionate " orood-nio-ht," he sought
his own room.

'rit would be cowardly — cruel," he said,
*•' to take notice of such a letter as that. I
can't do it."

He threw himself into a chair, and sat
till his candle went out, thinking deeply about
his sister and her unfortunate connection with
Candlish.

Xo," he said, rising slowly; "I cannot
act upon that note. It would be too
paltry."

He stopped short, for just then the church
clock rang out clearly the first stroke of midnight.


It was the hour named in the letter, and
the thought came to him with a flash.

'' Xo," he cried fiercely ; " I cannot do

VOL. III. D

that ; " but in spite of his words the spirit
within warned him that he occupied the
position of parent to his sister, and, quickly
throwing open his door, he walked across to
Leo's room and tapped sharply, and waited
for a reply.

THE OPEN WINDOW.

As a rule, repeated knockings at a bedroom
door when there is no response create alarm ;
thoughts of accident, illness, murder, teeming
to the brain of the one who summons, and
the alarm soon spreads through the house.

But in this case Hartley Salis took steps
to prevent the alarm spreading, as he thought,
in happy ignorance of the fact that Dally
was down on her knees breathing hard with
her ear to the keyhole.

He tapped softly, and uttered Leo's name
again and again before trying the door and
satisfying himself that it was locked on the
inside.

He uttered a low, hissing sound as he

D 2

stood there thinking, his brow knit, and an
angry glare in his eye. He felt no dread
of an accident or of illness, for the note he
had received was a warning of what he might
expect. He only wanted one proof of its truths.

He went back to where Mary was waiting,
full of anxiety.

*' I know nothing yet," he said abruptly.
^' Wait ! "

With his countenance growing more stern-looking
and old, Sails went downstairs and
into the drawing-room, which was the easiest
way out on to the little lawn at the back.

The window fastening was removed without
sound, the door opened, and he stepped
out on to the short grass, with the stars overhead
glimmering brightly enough for him to
make out the dark patches of leafage trained
against the house and the dim panes of the
different casements.

He did not look in the direction of Dally
Watlock's room, or he might have made out
a fat little hand holding the blind sufficiently
on one side for a pair of dark eyes to watch
keenly what was going on. He stepped

straight at once for the summer-house, with
his heart beating in a low, heavy throb, as he
mentally prayed that the words written in
that note might be a cruel lie.

Only a few moments, and then, feeling as
if stricken by some mental blow — angry,
jealous of the man who had stolen from him
the love of his sister ; enraged against the
carefully-bred girl, whose life had been
passed in the pure atmosphere of a country
rectory, and to whose welfare he had devoted
himself, to the exclusion of what
might be dear to the heart of man. All contended
in his heart for mastery, and seemed
to suffocate him, as he dimly saw that it was
true, and that the girl of refinement, to whom
he and Mary had rendered up everything
that her life might be smooth and pleasant,
was behaving like some miserable drab who
had the excuse of knowing no better, of
looking at reputation as an intangible something,
worthless for such as she.

The casement was wide open, pressing-back
the creepers ; and the interior of Leo's
room showed like a black, oblong patch.

She may have gone to bed, and left the
window open," Hartley whispered.

He shook his head, and a terrible sensation
of despair beat down upon him.

"Poor Horace!" he muttered. 'chemist
know more than I give him credit
for. This explains his absence, and the
strangeness of his ways."

He walked back into the drawing-room,
and, without closing the window, went upto
where Mary sat, waiting in an agony
of suspense.

Oh, Hartley ! " she said, as she saw the
look of agony in his eyes.

'rit would be cruel to keep anything from
you, Mary, in your helpless state."

Yes, dear ; pray — pray, speak ! "

It is quite true," he said laconically.

Mary's breath, as she drew it hard,
sounded like the inspiring of one in agony ;
and she clasped her brothers hands tightly
in hers.

"This can't be the first time by many,"
said Salis wearily. "Mary, dear, I've tried
to do all that a brother could for you both,

and I've been too weak and indulgent, I'm
afraid"'

"Oh, Hartley, don't talk like that!" cried
Mary, with a sob. ''My own dear, noble,
self-denying brother."

*hush, hush! Mary!" he said sadly;
'rit has all Ijeen wrong, and here is the
result ! "

''' What are you going to do, dear ? "

I know what I should like to do," he
said hoarsely : " o;o and half kill that
scoundrel at the Hall."

''Oh, Hartley!"

This explains why North hasn't been.
He knows too much. Heaven ! how is it
that a woman can be lost to all that is due
to herself, leave alone to those she is supposed
to love ! "

There was an inexpressible bitterness in
his tone as he spoke.

'•' But what are you going to do ? "

"Do !" he said fiercely, but with a tinge
of despair in his words ; " I'm going to thank
Heaven that the man whom I believe to bethe
soul of honour and manliness has been

saved from linking his fate with that of
such a woman as Leo Salis."

"Oh, Hartley!" cried Mary, "she is our
sister."

"Yes," he said bitterly; " she is our sister.
I shall not forget that."

But what are you going to do, dear ? "

What am I going to do ? " said Salis,
bending down and kissing Mary ; " send
you to bed to rest and be ready to bear the
troubles of another day."

But Leo ? "

"I am going down to wait till she
comes."

And then ? "

And then ? Ah, what then ? What can
I do, Mary?" he said despairingly. "You
knows Leo as well as I do. To speak to her
would be waste of breath. There is only
one thing I can do."

Yes, dear," said Mary piteously.

Strive hard to preserve your dignity
and honour, and mine, in the eyes of the
world."

But that letter. Hartley ! "

Yes' he said bitterly ; " it is too late for
that. Well, I must strive. Good heavens !
she is only fit to be treated' like a wilful
child."

Oh, Hartley ! "

"There, hush! little one," he said tenderly;
'•' we must bear it patiently."

You will wait up till she returns ? "

"Yes, of course."

And you will not be violent ? "

"Violent! Iii bono? No, Mary; I
shall say very little ; but she will have to
go from here."

There was a desolate sound in his voice —
a look of misery in his eyes, which brought a
sigh from. Mary.

Perhaps I ought to go raging up to the
Hall, and try and find Tom Gaulish," said
the curate; "but I don't wish to repeat my
last encounter with the scoundrel. It might
be worse. There, you are suffering. Go to
bed."

But I could not sleep ! "

"Never mind — lie down. There, I shall
say very little to Leo. What I do say to

the point shall be in your presence, clear.
Good night."

'* Good night," he repeated, as he walked
softly downstairs, and out through the
drawing-room into the garden, to see that
Leo's window remained open, when he sighed
deeply, went back, and sat down to watch
for his sister's return.

A Wayward SISTER.

Hartley Salis was not the only, watcher.
Mary lay with her eyes burning and brain
throbbing; with contending emotions. She
was in agony, for she had to combat, in
addition to the horror of the discovery that
her sister could be so shameless in her acts,
a sensation of gratification that would force
itself to the front.

It was terrible, but it was true ; and she
knew that she could not help a feeling of
exultation that Horace North had discovered
something; of her sister's character before
it was too late. She felt ashamed of this
feeling, but it was utterly unselfish, and
born of the love she felt for North. He

could never be more than a friend to her,
but she would like to see him happy, and
that he could never be with Leo for his
wife.

She wept bitterly as she lay helplessly
there, for it seemed like rejoicing that her
sister was found out ; but the thoughts would
come, and they mastered her.

And there to share the watch of Hartley
Salis was Dally Watlock, as she sat behind
her curtained window with the casement just
ajar. She could see nothing below, but she
made sure that *' Master " would not go to bed
till '' Miss Leo " returned.

*' Bless her ! " she said, with a little laugh
that was like a baby born of old Forelock's
chuckle. '' How she will catch it ! Serve her
right : trying to come between us. But she
may try after this. She'll get out to see him
no more, and he'll soon forget her."

All was very still without, and Dally
strained her ears to catch a sound, her eyes
to make out some dark figure pacing the
garden.

I wonder where he is V she said to herself.

'' He'd wait for her if it was for a
month, and then my fine lady will catch it
nicely.

'•' I wish I knew where he was," she muttered,
and her wish was gratified, for all at
once, as she was pressing the casement open
another quarter of an inch, there was a low
couo-h from down to her left, as Salis altered
his position in his chair.

*' He's watching just inside the drawing-room
windows"' Dally said to herself, as she
clasped her little hands together ; " and when
my lady comes home "

Dally paused.

My lady ! No, she shan't never be my
lady," she hissed fiercely. " I'd kill her,
and granada should bury her first."

■'' When she comes home," continued
Dally with another malicious little laugh,
"she'll wish she had never gone. I'll hear
some of the row if I have to leave.

Ah ! It'll pay me for her getting a few
kisses, and having his arm round her waist
a bit. Ugh ! how I hate the nasty, good-looking
minx. I wish she was dead ! "

Daily's teeth gritted together in the darkness,
and she uttered a low, hissing noise,
as she writhed in her jealousy, and pictured
to herself the scene that was probably going
on at the Hall.

''I don't care," she muttered recklessly."
What are a few kisses ? I shan't miss
'em, and he's obliged to keep it up for a bit
before he quite breaks it off. Says it will
kill her when he does. I hope it will.

** Wonder how long she'll be?" continued
Dally. "I don't mind. I can easily get a
nap tomorrow after dinner, but I don't
think she'll care to go to sleep after master's
had his say."

She settled herself in her place to watch
if it were till doomsday, so determined did
she seem ; and meanwhile Hartley sat just
inside the drawing-room, shrouded in complete
darkness which accorded well with
the blackness of spirit which was upon
him.

Leo could not reach her window without
passing close to him, and he thought
bitterly now of his simplicity in not grasping;

the nieanino^ of torn-clown growth and
broken trellis by the suramer-liouse. It was
all plain enough now.

Thought succeeded thought. He could
grasp clearly enough the meaning of North's
actions when he had attended Tom Candlish —
how bitter he had seemed against him, and
then the fall lio-ht came.

'•' Why, it must have been North who had
surprised Tom Candlish, and beaten him
within an inch of his life, and, oh ! shame —
the woman must have been Leo !

'rand every one must have known this
but poor, weak, blind mole, Hartley Salis,"
he groaned.

"Scoundrel! Base hound! Why, if I
had been North I — but I'm forgetting myself'*
he said, as he pressed his hands to
his throbbing brows, and felt that the veins
in his temples were full and turgid.

Not a word to me ! Well, how could
he speak, and complain to me ? Oh, shame,
shame, shame ! "

The hot tears of indignation started to
his eyes ; the first that had been there for

many years, and they seemed to scald him
till he dashed them fiercely away.

I stand to her in the place of father,"
he muttered sternly ; '' and I'll do my duty
by her, even if I have to keep her under lock
and key."

The time did not seem long, though he
sat there for hours, so active was his brain,
and so flooded with memories of Leo's
early life — her wilful disobedience, lier determined
opposition even in childish things,
and Salis felt that the woman was the same
in spirit as the child had been, and that if
Tic was to be reclaimed he must pursue a
very different course in the future.

All at once he started, for there was the
faint chirp of a bird ; then the loud chink !
chink ! of a blackbird, and he became on
the alert, for it was the note uttered when
the bird was alarmed.

Day was close at hand, for there was a
faint line of light in the east, and sure
enough directly after there was a faint,
rustling sound, as of a dress brushing against
some bush ; directly after — riiff] ruff; ruff,

ruff — the rustling of the dress as its wearer
walked quickly up the green path, as if in
fear of being overtaken by the coming
day.

Then it seemed a little darker just in
front of the drawing-room window ; a shrub
was blotted out by something black, which
seemed to glide by — riiff, ruff; ruff, riiff- —
and then there was a hard breathing, and
the creak of a piece of lattice.

For the moment, now that the time had
arrived, Salis sat there quite overcome, and
ready to let the opportunity pass.

But it was only momentary. Stung into
action by the feeling that this woman was
cruelly wronging and disgracing brother and
sister, he rose from his j^^^ce, took half-a-dozen
quick strides, and was over the grass
and at Leo's elbow as she clung to the side
of the summer-house, and was about to
raise herself higher.

The sound of his approach was covered
by the noise Leo made in rustling the
growth pressed against her breast, and the
first hint she had of discovery was a strong,

VOL. ni. E

firm hand grasping her delicate shoulder
with almost painful violence.

She could not turn her head so as to confront
Salis, for she was above the ground,
clinging with outstretched arms to the strong
trellis-work of the summer-house, but she
uttered a low, hoarse cry, and a shiver ran
through her as she felt the touch.

Horace North ! " she hissed, with her chin
pressed down upon her breast. " You are a
mean coward and spy. Oh, if I were a man 1 "

Salis could not speak for a moment or
two as he heard this confirmation of his
belief, but he tightened his grasp till Leo
uttered a cry of pain.

You coward ! " she hissed again.

'rit is not Horace North," said Salis, ina
deep voice. '* Thank Heaven he does not
know of this."

Hartley ! "

Yes, Hartley ! "

And North has told you ? "

'nothing I''

He half dragged her down, and kept his
grasp upon her shoulder till she was inside

the drawing-room and lie had closed the
window.

You can go up to your bedroom by the
stairs," he said sternly, '•' without stealing
in like a thief. Had some one told me of
tins to my face I should have said he lied."

There, say what you have to say, and
end this scene," cried Leo, defiantly now.

'' I have nothing to say — now," said Sails
sternly.

Oh, say it ! I am not a child."

*' I am under a promise to Mary that I
will say nothing now."

Salis knew that she turned upon him very
sharply, but he could not see her face.

*' Under a promise to Mary ? There, if
anything is to be said, say it."

Salis drew in his breath sharply, and the
words came rushing to his lips, but he mastered
the passion within him, and walked to
the door to open it.

A dim twilight now faintly filled the hall,

showing the curate's figure framed in the

doorway. Then he stood aside, holding the

way open.

E 2

Library

UNIVERSITY OF Umt9

Go ! " he said.

*' Senfc to bed like a naughty child," she
cried, in a harsh, mocking voice, which feebly
hid the anger and defiance by which she was
nerved.

Salis made no reply, nor did he speak
aorain for some moments.

'' Go to your room," he said again, more
sternly.

Leo made an angry gesture as if she would
resist. Then, giving a childish, petulant
stamp upon the floor, she walked quickly by
him and ascended the stairs, Salis following
closely behind.

As they reached the landing, it was to
find Mary's door open, and that the half-helpless
invalid had dragged herself there, to
stand clinging to the side.

Leo — Hartley," she said, in a low, pained
voice : 'come here."

I am sent to bed," said Leo mockingly ;
and she was passing on, but Salis caught herby
the arm and checked her. Then he led her
to the far end of the room before returning to
close the door and help Mary to her couch.

'' I can speak now' he said, in a low
voice full of passion, but at the same time
well under control. '' Where have you
been ? "

Hartley ! " said Mary appealingly.

'hush, my child," he replied. "I know
what I am saying. I wish to avoid the
.scandal of this being known to the servants,
but your position and mine demand an
explanation. Leo Salis, where have you
been?"

She turned her handsome, defiant face
towards where he stood, and now it was
beginning to be visible in the soft dawn,
pale, fierce, and implacable as that of one
who has recklessly set every law at defiance
and is ready to dare all.

Adhere have I been ? " she said. '' Out ! "

I insist upon a proper reply to my question.
I say, where have you been ? "

There ! " she cried ; *' there is no need to
fence. You know where I have been ? "

To meet that man Cancllish, after promising
me that your intercourse with him should
be at an end ; and, to make things worse, you

have stolen from the house in this disgraceful,
clandestine way."

** Is there any need for this ? " said Leo
sharply. '' There, if you wish to know, I
have been to Candlish Hall. Sir Thomas is
forbidden this house, so you force me to goto
him. You knew where I had been."

'eyes, I knew where you had been," assented
Sal is, as Mary looked from one to-the
other, not knowing what to say.

'' Now, answer me a question," cried Leo
fiercely. " Was it Horace North, in his
mean, contemptible, jealous spite, who set
you to watch me ? "

*' Leo ! " cried Mary, stung to words by
her sister's accusation,

Silence ! What is it to you. you miserable
worm ? " cried Leo furiously. " My
home has been made a purgatory for
months past by you and dear Hartley here.
Plotting together both of you to make me
miserable, to treat me as a little girl, and to
check me at every turn. What Hartley did
not try, you thought, and suggested to him
till my very soul recoiled against you both

and your miserable tyranny. I say it was
North — the mean wretch — who set you to
watch me."

'' Horace North is too true a man to give
soli a second thought ; too stern and upright
to speak of you after your cruel
treachery to him."

"It is not true. I was neither cruel nor
treacherous to him," cried Leo.

'' He told me nothing. Your acts are
growing public, or I should not have known
what I know now; and this must have an end."

What end ? " said Leo shrewishly. *^ Am
I to be confined to my room ? Bah ! I
have had enough of all this. Yes, I have
been to see the man I love, and will go
again and again."

To your disgrace."

To my disgrace, or to my death, if I
like," cried Leo fiercely. " I'll have no
more of this humdrum, miserable life, where
I must neither move nor stir save as my
brother and sister ordain."

Have you thought what this means ? "
said Sails sternly.

Thought ? No. I have no time foro



thinking. I know."

The day was dawning fast, and the pale,
soft light slanting into Mary's bedroom at
the sides of the curtain, giving to each face
a ghastly, livid look.

Salis strode to the window, and snatched
the curtain aside before turning to pour
out upon his sister's head the hot vial of
his wrath. But as he turned and faced her
his anger was swept away by a great flood
of pity, and he approached her gently, for
he read in the handsome face before him,
flushed with defiant, reckless passion, that
she had reached a point in her life when a
word might turn her to a future of good or
one of misery and despair. She gazed at
him as if he were her greatest enemy, and
then at Mary, to see her hands extended,
and a look of tenderness and love in her
pitying eyes.

But the time was unpropitious ; there had
been a scene with her lover an hour before,
which had stirred her angry passions to
their deepest depth, and then, as she encountered

her brother with his stern words
of reproach, it seemed to her that the time
had come when she must strive for her freedom.
Tom Candlish had reproached her
for her cowardice, and laughed her obedience
to those at home to scorn. He had
brutally told her to go and trouble him no
more with letter or message, for she was a
poor puling thing, and she had returned heartbroken
and in misery, for, defiant to all else,
she was this man's slave.

The encounter then had unloosed her
angry passions, and flogging herself again
and again with her lover's words, she
turned recklessly upon those who were
ready to forgive and take her to their
breasts.

Leo, dear Leo, for pity's sake ! " cried
Mary wildly. '•' Come to me, sister. I cannot
even crawl to you."

And you ask me, worse than worm that
you are, to go down on my knees to you ;
and for what, pray ? For the heinous sin of
being true to the man I love. There, do you
hear me, to the man I love ? "

Leo ! sister ! " said Salis, trying to take
her hand, but she struck his away with an
angry gesture which he did not resent.

'well, what have you to say ? " she cried.
"Do you want to preach to me, to ask me
to repent and sorrow with you ? For what ?
Is it a crime to love ? "

'leo, my child!"

Leo, my child ! " she cried scornfully, as
she repeated his words. " I tell you I am a
child no longer, and that I will think and act
for myself. Fool, idiot that I have been ! "
she cried, as her passion grew more wild and
her voice rose. " I have submitted to you
both till it has become unbearable. From this
day, if I stay here, I will be my own mistress,
and suffer your dictation no more. Teach
and torture Mary into her grave, if you like,
but I will be free."

Say nothing, Hartley," said Mary softly.
"She will repent all this, dear, when she is
calm. Leo, stay with me. Hartley, dear,
pray say no more ; she is not mistress of
herself, and tomorrow, perhaps to-day, this

painful scene will be forgiven and forgotten
by us all."

'forgiven? No. Forgotten? Never,"
cried Leo ; '" and I tell you both that if I am
driven from the home that I should have
shared, and my future becomes to me a curse,
it is your work."

She had lashed herself into a pitch of
unreasoning fury, and invective was flowing-fast
from her lips, when, in the midst of
one of her most furious bursts, and just as
Sails was being driven to despair, there was
a sharp tap at the door, and before it could
be answered, another, and Dally came into
the room.

"Is Miss Leo ill, sir?" she cried. '' I
heard her sobbing in my room. Can I do
anything ? Shall I light a fire ? "

It was Daily's idea of being of some help,
tljat of lighting fire.

No, no. Go away," cried Sails passionately
; but he said no more, for Leo had
crossed quickly to the little servant maid,
and clung to her.

Go with me to my room, Dally," she
said in a sharp, strained voice ; '' and let
them follow me if they dare."

Oh, Leo, my child, for Heaven's sake ! "
cried Salis.

'' For Heaven's sake ! " she cried wildly, as
she clung to Dally. '' What have you to do
with Heaven, who have made my life a
curse ? Take me, Dally, take me away, for
I am almost blind."

"My poor, darling mistress!" sobbed the
little traitress, passing her hand round Leo's
waist, and helping her towards the door,
Leo yielding to the girl's guidance, and
keeping her defiant eyes flashing from sister
to brother and back.

The door closed, and as Salis and Mary
gazed after the retreating pair, a wild
hysterical sob, followed by a passionate cry,
reached their ears, and it was as if misery
and despair were henceforth to be their lot ;
but at that moment, from the dewy meadow
at the bottom of the garden, a lark rose to
begin circling round and round, scattering
his jubilant, silvery notes of song far and

wide on the morning air. And as it proclaimed,
as it were, to every listening ear that
a new day had begun, hope and light flashed
into the hearts of those within the room.

"It will be a hard task, Mary," said Salis,
going down on one knee beside Mary, who
clung to him with a look of appeal that
went to his heart. "' Yes, a hard task,
dearer"' he said attain, as he kissed her.
'•' There, you will not go to bed now, but
lie back and have a few hours' sleep. The
darkness of the night has passed, and hope
cometh with the day."

But Leo — Leo ! " moaned Mary, and,
unable to contain herself longer, she burst
into a passionate fit of weeping.

Hush ! darling. Come : I want my
sister's help. There, fight it down. Hers
were the words of a passionate, hysterical
woman. She will be penitent when the fit
is over. What now ? "

'* Miss Leo, sir — Miss Leo ! " cried Dally,
running into the room.

'' Well, what, girl ? " cried Salis, alarmed
by the maid's frantic, excited look.

'she sent me out of the room, sir, to
fetch her cloak."

'hush! Come with me," said Salis,
hastily rising to accompany Dally from the
room, but Mary clung spasmodically to his
hand.

'' No, no ; let her speak. I cannot bear
the suspense."

Salis nodded his head sharply, and the
girl went on :

I went down, sir, and when I came back
she was standing in the middle of the room
with a glass on the table, and something

spilled "

Salis stopped to hear no more, but rushed
into Leo's room to find her clinging to the
foot of the bed, her eyes dilated, a look of
horror in her face, and in the same glance
he took in that which Dally had described —
a glass upon the table, overturned, and some
fluid staining the cover and slowly sinking
down the side towards the floor.

THE DOCTOR IS ECCENTRIC.

Want me to attend Miss Leo Salis ? Not
I. Send to King's Hampton for old "

But, please, sir."

'* Please, sir ? Yes, you do please this sir.
Why, you pretty little, apple-faced, sloe-eyed,
cherry-cheeked piece of human fruit ! Here,
let's have a look at your little face ! "

Oh, Dr. North ! For shame ! You
shouldn't."

There was the sound of a smart kiss, and
then Horace North stood gazing wildly at
Dally as she made believe to be very much
hurt in her dignity.

'you shouldn't, sir, and Miss Leo all the
time a- dying."

*miss Leo— Ycrvill?"

*' Yes, sir ; I told yoa so, and then you
began talking nonsense and hauling me about.
I feel quite ashamed."

But I cannot fro to her, o^irl. It is impossible,"
cried North excitedly.

"But master said I was to fetch you, sir.
Oh, I wouldn't ha' thought it of you ! "

I beg your pardon, Dally, I was not
thinking. I — I — when was she taken
bad ? "

Sudden like — early this morning, sir.
You will come, won't you ? We're quite
frightened."

Yes, I'll come," said North quickly.
By what strange irony of fate am I called
upon again to attend on her ? " he thought
to himself, as he recalled her last illness,
and the way in which she had declared her
passion for him.

"Idiot! fool!" he said. 'what a mere
child ! And I a medical man, and let my
weak vanity carry me away so that I could
not see that all was delirium."

"Did you speak, sir?" said Dally, who

trotted beside him as he walked with rapid
strides towards the Electors.

** No. Yes. How was it all ? "

Well, sir, I hardly know ; only that I
left Miss Leo this morning for a minute, and
when I came back she'd been drinking something
out of a glass, and looked as if she'd
poisoned herself."

Absurd I But this morning ? How
came you to be with her this morning ?
Why, it is only five now."

"No, sir. We were up very early."

*' Early ? Why, you look as if you had
not been to bed. Here, Dally, what has
been going on at the Rectory ? "

'going on, sir ? Oh, I couldn't tell you.
And here's master, sir ; ask him."

In fact, Salis had just run down from
Leo's room to see if the doctor was coming,
and, on catching sight of him, came to hurry
him on.

For Heaven's sake be quick ! " he cried.
*leo is dying ! "

North hurried in with him, and upstairs,
to find Leo lying upon the bed where her

VOL. III. F

brother had placed her, pale, motionless, and
with her eyes half closed.

Don't ask questions, but act," panted
Sails.

I am acting," said North sternly, as he
bent over his patient, and rapidly grasped
the position. *' Do you know what she has
taken ? "

-No."

*' What poisons have you in the house ? "

'' None."

Humph ! " ejaculated the doctor, examining
and smelling the glass. 'she has got at
something."

"But, for pity's sake, act — act," said Salis,
in horror. 'you are letting her sink before
your eyes."

'best thing too," said North, laughing.
A miserable little jilt ! I "

He paused in horror at the words which
had fallen from his lips, and met his friend's
wondering gaze. Then, as if mastering himself,
he gave sundry orders in a quick, sharp
way, and evidently bestirred himself to restore
the patient.

For the moment Salis had felt disposed
to bid him leave the house ; but it was a
case of emergency, and, keeping a watchful
eye upon North, he helped where it was
necessary, with the result that an hour later
Mary was left seated beside her, Leo being
utterly prostrate, and the doctor followed
his friend down to the breakfast-room where
the meal was spread.

"Hah!" cried North, "that's better.
Breakfast's a glorious meal. Come, old chap,
sit down. Never mind the jade ; she's all
right now."

*' In Heaven's name. North, what does this
mean ? " cried Salis.

North burst into a hearty laugh, which his
wild eyes seemed to contradict.

Mean, eh ? " he cried. " Why, I ought to
ask you. What game has the lively little
witch been up to now ? "

North ! " cried Salis piteously.

There, you needn't tell me," cried
North, laughing. " Tom, eh ? Ah, he's a
sad dog ! "

'north, for pity's sake, have some

F 2

decency. I suspected that you had found
something out, and I can understand your
throwing her over like this."

'throw her over?" laughed North.
"Why she threw me over for Tom. She's a
queer one, old chap."

Are you a man ? " cried Salis fiercely,
"that you torture me like this. Can you
not see the shame of it — the disgrace to
Mary and me ? Horace North, I feel as if I
were grovelling in the mire, and you, my
oldest friend, come and set your heel upon
my neck."

"Eh? Heel? Your neck?"

Yes ; I know that you must have suffered
heavily. It has been a terrible affliction
to both Mary and me, for we felt with you ;
but for Heaven's sake, Horace, don't rush
into this reckless extreme. Man, man, I
want your sympathy and help, if ever I did,
and you — you are so changed."

*eyes, yes," said North, in a hoarse
whisper, and with a ghastly look in his
eyes. " So changed — so horribly changed."

'^Ah!" cried Salis joyfully; "that's like

your old self again. Why, North, what has
come to you ? "

Come to me ? You dog! Come tome,
eh '? Look as if I'd been drinking, do I ?
Oh, I'm all rio^ht enough ! "

Salis looked at him aghast once more,
just as if he had been indeed drinking; but
his friend's acts belied his words, for he
uttered a low groan, laid his arms upon the
table and let his head sink down.

There was such desolation in his manner
that Salis crossed to him and laid his hand
upon his shoulder, when, to his horror,
the poor fellow uttered a wild shriek, and
started up to dash to the other side of the
room.

Oh, it was you," said North huskily, ashe
gazed wildly at his friend, his piteous eyes
seeming to ask what he thought of his acts.

'• Why, North, old fellow, what is the
matter ? You can trust me."

*' Matter ? " cried North excitedly — "■ matter
? No, no, nothing is the matter. A
little out of order. Don't take any notice
of what I say."

But I must take notice. Do you suppose
I can see my oldest and best friend goon
in this mad way ? "

No, no ; don't say that," cried Norths
catching him fiercely by the wrist; "not
mad way A little eccentric : that's alL
Don't take any notice."

'' But "

'* No, no ; don't take any notice. Yes, I
was upset about her. It was a shock."

*' I knew it was that," cried Salis ; " but.
North, my dear fellow, you must master it r
we are old friends. I will keep nothing from
you. Let us be mutually helpful. Is it
nothing to us to have such a horror as this
in our midst ? "

*' It is terrible for you," said North quietly.
*the foolish girl!"

Hah ! " ejaculated Salis, beaming upon
him ; " that sounds like you."

I bear her no malice," continued North
dreamily. " It has all been one bitter mistake."


'' Yes, a bitter, bitter mistake ! " assented
Salis.

But it is over now. It was in her
delirium that she told me she loved me."

"Leo told you this?"

'* Yes. I ought to have known better.
But I am only a weak man, Salis. It is
over now."

It is for the best, my dear old fellow,"
cried Salis warmly. "There, you are yourself
again. Now tell me. What had she
taken ? "

'' Some strong narcotic poison. I fancy
it was belladonna. Did she use it for her

"No. I think not. No," said Salis
thoughtfully. "Nature had not made it
necessary for her to try and improve her
looks."

"No," said North thoughtfully. "Had
you quarrelled ? "

Salis stood with his brows knit for a few
moments, and then he turned sharply upon
North.

Tell me first," he said, " you surprised
my sister with that scoundrel, Candlish ? "

North shuddered as he bowed his head.

'* AdcI I am right in thinking it was you
who half killed him ? "

^' Yes," said North; "it was I."

*'I don't wonder at it," said Salis quietly.
Now I'll answer your question. Mary and
I hoped we had broken all that affair off
between my sister and Candlish ; but last
night I made a discovery, and we did
quarrel."

"And the weak, foolish girl flew to that
narcotic poison to end her trouble," said
North thoughtfully. "Ah, well, you must
watch her now. There is no danger. It is
past."

Thanks to you ! "

*' Thanks to me ? Perhaps so; but don't
send for me again unless it is a case of
emergency. There, I must go now."

He rose painfully, looking wild and haggard
; but the next moment his whole
appearance changed, and he gave his friend
a tremendous back - banded blow in the
chest.

She'll be all right, old chap, and ready
to carry on her games again directly. Shea

lively one, parson ; as sprightly a filly as
was ever foalecl. And you, too — you sham
old saint ; I can see through you, and

Madame Crippleoria upstairs ! I "

He smote himself heavily in the mouth,
uttered a low groan, and with a despairing
look in his eyes that seemed mingled of
horror and fright, he glanced wildly at Salis,
and hurried from the place.

HAUNTED.

*' Leo, how could you do so foolish a thing ? "
said Mary Salis, a few days later, as she sat
by her sister's couch.

What do you mean ? " said Leo feebly.

' You know what I mean, dear. Is life so
valueless that in a rash moment you would
have cast it away ? "

Do you suppose, then, that I tried to
take my life ? " cried Leo, in a low, weak
voice.

"Don't let's talk about it," said Mary,
with a shudder ; " unless it is in sorrow."

Why was it placed there ? " said Leo,
catching her sister's wrist.

'' Placed there ? "

Yes. Was it Hartley's doing ? "

Hartley's doing ? "

Yes ; the glass standing on my table
as if it held water. Did Hartley do it,
Mary?"

Is your mind wandering, dear ? " said
Mary, laying her cool hand upon her sister's
white forehead.

No ; I'm as calm as you are. Hartley
must have placed it ready for me — to get
rid of his wicked sister, I suppose."

*' Leo ! Don't speak like that. How can
you, dear ? Hartley place a glass for you ! "

Yes. I thought it was water, and I
drank it."

Hush, Leo, dear ! "

You don't believe me ! Very well ; I
cannot help it. The stuff was placed ready
for me on the table, and I drank it."

Mary sighed, but she kept her cool, soft
band pressed upon her sister's brow.

Why do you stop here ? " said Leo, at
last.

*' Because I wish to talk to you — to try
and be of some help."

There was a silence which hasted some
minutes, and then Leo turned her fierce dark
eyes sharply on her sister.

*' You have kept back his letters," she said
sternly.

"His letters!"

Yes ; he has written to me since I have
been ill."

Mary shook her head, and Leo gazed full
in her eyes to satisfy herself that this was the
truth.

*' Has he sent to ask how I am ? "

''No."

Leo closed her eyes, and lay back with
her lips moving slightly, while Mary watched
and wondered whether North would come
and see her sister again, and whether any
fresh eccentricity had been noticed.

Had she known all she would have been
less calm.

That morning Cousin Thompson had comedown,
gone straight to the Manor, and saluted
Mrs. Milt.

Doctor in his room ? "

No, sir ; master's ill."

"Not seriously?" said Cousin Thompson,
TS'ith thouo-bts of being; next of kin.

I don't know, sir," said the housekeeper.
Master certainly don't seem as I should
like to see him."

Dear me ! " said Cousin Thompson
thoughtfully. '•■ That's bad, Mrs. Milt ; that's
bad. However, I'll go up and see him."

The housekeeper shook her head.

What do you mean, Mrs. Milt ? "

I mean that I don't think he'll see you,
sir."

Oh, stuff* and nonsense ! Go and tell
him I'm here."

The housekeeper went away, and came
back in five minutes, looking troubled.

"Master says you must excuse him, sir.
That you are to please ask for what you
want, but he is too unwell to see you."

"Dear me, Mrs. Milt; I'm sorry to hear
this," said the solicitor, with a look of commiseration.
" But, then, he is a doctor, and
must know his symptoms. Has he had anyone
to see him ? "

No, sir."

"Then he is not very bad. I mean no
doctor ? "

*'No, sir; no doctor."

"I didn't mean solicitor, Mrs. Milt," said
Cousin Thompson, laughing unpleasantly.
"Of course, if he required a solicitor he
would send for me, eh ? "

'' I suppose so, sir."

'' He has not sent for a solicitor, of course
to make his will, eh ? " jocularly. " No,
.no ; of course not."

*' Perhaps you had better ask master about
such things as that, sir," said Mrs. Milt,
with asperity. " I know nothing about
that."

You do, you hag ! " said Cousin Thompson
to himself : " you do, or you wouldn't
be so eager to disclaim all knowledge of
such an act — and deed. This must be seen
to, for I can't afford to have you coming
between me and my rights, madam. This
must be seen to."

*' What would you like to take, sir ? "

*' Anything, my dear Mrs. Milt, anything.
Too busy a man to trouble about food. I'm

going to see a client, and while I'm gone
perhaps you will get a snack ready forme.


You will not sleep here, I suppose ? "

'but I will sleep here, Mrs. Milt," said
Cousin Thompson, smiling. " I do not feel
as if I could go back to town without being
able to take with me the knowledge that my
cousin is in better health."

"And not at the mercy of thieves and
scheming people," he muttered, as he went
off to see Mrs. Berens, as he put it, '^ re
shares."

North's bedroom bell rang violently as
Cousin Thompson disappeared down the
road, and Mrs. Milt went up to the door
and knocked.

Has that man gone ? ' came from within.

Yes, sir."

*' Bring up the brandy."

Mrs. Milt uttered a sio^h.

May I bring you up a little broth, sir.
too ? " she whispered, with her face close
to the panel. " You've had nothing to-day,
sir, and you must be growing faint."

'' Bring up the brandy ! " roared North
fiercely. " Do you hear ? "

And him to speak to me like that ! '^
sighed the housekeeper, as she went down
for the spirit decanter ; ** and for him, too,
who never took anything but tea for days
together, to be asking for brandy in this
reckless way. Five times have I filled up
the spirit decanter this week."

She returned with the brandy and
knocked.

No answer.

Tve brought the brandy, sir."

"Set it down."

*' Can I speak to you, sir ? "

There was a fierce stamp of the foot
which made the jug rattle in the basin on
the washstand, and Mrs. Milt set down the
decanter close to the door, and went down
again, raising her apron to her eyes.

I wouldn't have any one know how bad
he is for the world," she sighed ; and, resisting
the temptation to stand and watch the
opening of the door, the old lady went into
her own room and shut herself in.

As the sound of the closing door rose to
the upstairs rooms, that of North's chamber
was cautiously opened and a hand was
thrust out to go on feeling about till it came
in contact with the decanter, which it seized
and bore in, the door being closed as the
hand and arm disappeared.

The room within was darkened, and the
figure of Horace North looked shadowy
and strange as he walked hastily to and
fro, now here, now there, as some wild
animal restlessly parades the sides of his
cage.

He held the decanter in his hand, and
seemed in no hurry to use the spirit ; but at
last he set it down upon the dressing-table,
drew the curtain a little on one side, and went
to the washstand, from which he brought the
water-bottle and tumbler.

As he poured out some of the spirit
into a glass, the light shone full upon his
face, and he blinked as if his eyes were
dazzled by the glare.

The decanter made a chattering noise
against the glass till he rested his trembling

VOL. III. G

hand upon the side, ceased pouring, and closed
his eyes for a few moments to rest.

As he opened them again his gaze fell
upon his reflection in the dressing-glass upon
the table, and he stood fixed to the spot, glaring
at the wild-looking object before him, with
its sunken eyes, wrinkled brow, and horrified,
hunted, and frightened look.

He had seen such a face as that hundreds
of times in the case of patients suffering
from some form of mania, generally in connection
with drink, and it petrified him for
the time, for his brain refused to accept
the fact that he was gazing at his own
reflection.

It was a strange scene in that darkened
room, with the one broad band of light
shining in through the half-drawn curtain,,
falling upon that haggard and ghastly face
gazing at its counterpart, each displaying a
haunted look of horror — a dread so terrible
that it explained North's next action, which
was to let fall decanter and glass with a crash
upon the floor, before slowly backing away
right to the furthest portion of the room.

where he stood against the wall, panting
heavily.

The curtain fell back, as if an invisible
hand had held it for a time, and once more
the room was in semi-gloom, while the faint,
sick odour of the brandy gradually diffused
itself through the place till it reached the
trembling man's nostrils and made him
shudder.

Like the smell of that place — like the
smell of that place ! Is this to go on forever
? "

Again he determinedly argued the question,
and felt that, failing to arrest the
decay of Luke Candlish, he had imbibed
the essence of the man which, needing a
fleshy body in which to live, had possessed
him, so that his fate seemed to be that he
must evermore lead a double life, in which
there was one soul under the control of his
well-schooled brain ; the other wild, independent,
and for whose words and actions he
must respond.

I cannot bear it," he muttered, as he.
stood back against the wall, as far from the

G 2

faint liszt as the room would allow. *' It
must be like madness in others' eyes, and
yet I am sane. I feel like a man haunted
by a shadow, and yet it is a fancy — a terrible
waking dream. But I will — Heaven help
nie ! — I will look at it from a scientific point
of view ; say it is so — that I have arrested
spirit and not body. Well, what then ? Is
there anything to fear ?

No ; and I will not fear it," he muttered,
'' any more than I would the dead ; but," he
added, after a pause, " it is the living I fear.
I cannot explain — I cannot control — this
horror — bah ! this essence — when it speaks,
and the living give me the blame. No, I cannot,
I dare not, explain. Who would believe ?
No one. They would say I was mad."

A gentle tap at the door, but no response.
A louder tapping, and no answer.

'*Mr. Thompson, sir, says he must see you
on very particular business."

North heard the words. His crafty, keen-eyed
cousin was there. How could he see
him now ? It was impossible. He had declined
before, and he was persisting again.

Will you come down and see him, sir ? "

"No: don't do that, Horace, if you are
ill. Open the door and Til come and chat
to you there."

No sound in reply ; but directly after
there was a loud noise of mockioo- laughter
from within the room, a boisterous shout,
and a partly-heard speech.

Oh, my dear master ! " cried Mrs. Milt.

Ah ! " ejaculated Cousin Thompson, across
whose imagination glided the fair prospect
of the beautiful Manor House estate, and
his eyes glistened as he said softly, 'i'm
afraid he is very ill."

COUSIN Thompson's duty.

'' Oh, no ; it's nothing at all, sir — nothing at
all," said Mrs. Milt hastily; "and I didn't
know you'd come upstairs behind me, sir."

'rit was to save you a journey, my dear
Mrs. Milt," said Cousin Thompson smoothly.
"Yes, I'm afraid he is very ill. A little
delirious, I think."

Delirious, sir ? Oh, nonsense ! Master's
often like that."

Indeed ! " said Cousin Thompson, in a
tone of voice which made the housekeeper
wish she had bitten off her tongue before
she had committed herself to such a speech.
You heard him utter that laugh ? "

"Well, surely to goodness, sir, that don't

signify anything. A laugh ! I wish I could
laugh."

But he gave a * view halloo ! ' and said
something about a fox."

Well, really, sir, what if he did ? There's
nothing master likes better after a hard week's
work and a lot of anxiety than a gallop after
the hounds. It does him good. Why, a
doctor wants taking out of himself sometimes,
specially one who works as hard as master
does. A medical man's anxiety sometimes is
enough to drive him mad."

"Yes, I suppose so," said Cousin Thompson
smoothly. " Hadn't you better knock
again i

No, sir, I hadn't," said Mrs. Milt tartly.
"I'm quite sure master don't want to be
disturbed."

"But really, my good woman, it seems tome
that he ought to have medical advice."

And it seems to me, sir, as he oughtn't
to. If master's not well and can't do himself
good, nobody else can, I'm sure ; and if you
please, sir, will you come downstairs ? He'd
be very angry if we stopped here."

Oh, certainly, Mrs. Milt. Pray forgive
me. I could not help feeling a little bit
anxious about my cousin."

I haven't got nothing to forgive, sir,"
said the old lady ; " only I'd have you know
that I'm as anxious about my dear master as
anybody."

Of course, Mrs. Milt. Quite natural
Dr. North is a remarkable man, and will some
day become very famous."

I essay, sir," said Mrs. Milt drily.
I think you said you should stop all
night?"

Yes, Mrs. Milt ; and I'm afraid my business
here will keep me another day, if it is not
troubling you too much."

"Oh, that don't matter at all, sir. I'm
sure master wishes you to be made very
comfortable, and as far as in me lies, sir, I
shall carry out his wishes."

Thank you, Mrs. Milt. I'm sure you
will," said Cousin Thompson ; and Mrs.
Milt rustled out of the room, looking very
bard and determined, but as soon as she was
out of sight deep lines of anxiety began to

appear about her eyes, and lie wrung her
hands.

'•'Yes/' said Cousin Thompson, going at
once to North's table and sitting down ta
write a letter; "I shall sleep here to-night,
]Mrs. Milt, and I shall sleep here tomorrow
night, and perhaps a great many other
nights. It is no use to be a legal adviser
unless I legally look after my sick cousins
affairs."

Cousin Thompson's anxiety about his
cousin gave his countenance a very happy
and contented look.

Things are looking up," he said, as he
finished and fastened his letter. " Everything
comes to the man who waits. Even
pleasant-looking, plump Mrs. Berens may —
who knows ? "

He carefully tore off a stamp from a sheet
in the writing-table drawer, moistened it upon
a very large, unpleasant-looking tongue, and
affixed it to the envelope.

'perhaps she is right, and he will be
better without medical advice," he said,
with a pleasant smile upon his countenance.

Why should I interfere ? That is where
some people make such a mistake : they
will dig up a plant to look at its roots. I
prefer letting a well-growing plant alone.
Yes, things are looking up. Now for my
genial baronet."

He walked out into the hall, and took his
hat, just as there was a ring at the gate
bell.

"Who's this?" he said; and he walked
into the dining-room and nearly closed the
door, but not quite.

The next minute there were steps in the
hall, the door was opened, and the curate's
bluff voice rang through the place in an
inquiry after the doctor.

*' He's very poorly, sir," said Mrs. Milt, ina
low and cautious voice. *' I don't really
know what to make of him."

''I do," said Salis. "He wants rest and
change, Mrs. Milt."

Yes, sir ; I think that's it, sir."

I wish I could get him away. I will."

Will you ? " said Cousin Thompson
softly.

Here, I'll go up and see him. In his
room, I suppose V

Excuse me, sir ; I think you had better
not. It irritates him. Old Forelock came
last night about some trifling ailment, and
poor master was quite angry about it. Then
Mr. Thompson went up to his door, and
it seemed to irritate him. You know how
tetchy and fretful it makes any one when
he's ill"

I want to see him, Mrs. Milt. I want
to talk to him."

Cousin Thompson's eyes twitched.

"Bat I'll go by your advice."

Mrs. Milt said something in reply which
the listener missed, and consequently exaggerated
largely as to its value, and directly
after Salis went away in a new character —
to wit, that of Cousin Thompson's mortal
enemy ; though Salis himself was in utter
ignorance of the fact.

Well, and how are we to-day ? " said the
lawyer on entering the old library at the
Hall.

Sir Thomas Candlish was lying back in
his chair, with a cigar in his mouth, a
sporting paper on his lap, and a soda and
brandy — or, rather, two brandies and a soda
at his elbow.

How are we to-day ! " he snarled.
Don't come here talking like a cursed
smooth humbug of a doctor about to feel
one's pulse."

But I am a doctor, and I have come to
feel your pulse, my dear sir," said Cousin
Thompson laughingly.

"Eh? — what? Again! Why, there's
nothing due yet."

There, there, there ! don't trouble yourself,
my dear Sir Thomas. There is a little
amount to meet ; but you are not, as you
used to be, worried about money matters.
You can pay."

Yes," snarled Tom Candlish ; " and you
seem to know it, too."

Come, that's unkind. It isn't generous,
my dear sir. Surely if a man lends money
he has a right to claim repayment."

Oh, yes, I know all about that — the old.

old jargon of the craft. I don't want to
borrow now. If I did I suppose I should
hear all about your friend in the City, eh ? —
your client who advances the money, eh ? "

Ha ! ha ! ha ! " laughed Thompson. " One
needn't ask how you are. The old vein
of fan is coming back flushed with health
and strength."

*' Cursed slowly. Now, then, what do you
want ? "

Oh, it is a mere trifling business,"

''A trifle."

It would have been serious to you once ;
but it is a trifle now."

"Well, let's have it."

No, no, not yet. There, I'll take a cigar
and a B. and S."

"Ah, do," said Candlish sarcastically.
"Make yourself at home, pray."

"To be sure I will. I've come to doctor
you and do you good."

D — n all doctors ! " sneered Candlish.

"Amen," said Cousin Thompson merrily,
as he took a cigar, lit it, and helped himself
to the brandy. "Look here, sir; you

sit alone and mope too miicli. You want
exercise."

"How the devil am I to take exercise,
when, as soon as I get on a horse, my head
begins to swim ? "

And a pretty girl or two to see you."

Tom Candlish uttered a low, blackguardly,
self-satisfied chuckle.

Eh ? I say. Hallo ! " cried Cousin
Thompson. " Oh, I see. Well, mum's the
word. But, come ; you do want change ;
you're too much alone. Now I've come "

Oh, yes, you've come, and on a deuced
friendly visit too."

Business and friendliness combined, my
dear sir. Why, you used not to snub me
like this. There, I meant to chat over a
little money matter with you. Let's do it
pleasantly. Come up to that capital table, and
let's do it over a friendly game of billiards."

Tom Candlish started from his seat, overturning
his glass, which fell to the floor, and
was shattered to atoms.

'' My dear Sir Thomas ! what is the
matter ? "

'' Nothing — nothing," he replied hoarsely.
*' Not well yet. A confounded spasm."

How unfortunate ! Let me refill your
glass, or shall I do it upstairs in the billiard-room
? "

Curse the billiards ! I tell you I don't
play now."

'' Not play ? "

The sight of the balls rolling makes me
giddy," cried the wretched man, glaring at
his visitor.

Why, my dear sir, I'm very sorry I
mentioned the game. There, let me give
you a light. You're out. That's it. Really
you ought to have the advice of a
doctor."

'' D — n all doctors ! " growled the baronet
again.

I can't afford to have you ill, my dear
Sir Thomas," said Thompson, with an unpleasant
laugh.

No, you can't afford to have me ill. Too
brood a cow to milk."

o

Cousin Thompson laughed, and felt that
he had made a mistake.

I cannot advise you to have my cousin
up, because he, too, is ill."

Tom Candlish's lips parted to utter a fierce
oath, but he checked it, and swung himself
round in his chair.

"Is he very ill ? " he said eagerly.

Yes ; he seems to me to be very
ill."

I'm glad of it — I'm very glad of it,"
cried Candlish. " Come, you needn't stare at
me. 1 wish the beast was dead."

I was not staring at you," said Cousin
Thompson ; " only listening. I think you and
he don't get on well ; but he's a very clever
man — my cousin Horace ; and if I could get
a little advice from him on your case, I'm
sure I would."

I want no advice. Only a little time.
I'm coming round, I tell you — fast. But
about North. Is he very bad ? "

"Well, ye — es ; I should say he was very
bad."

What's the matter ? Has he caught
some fever ? "

No. Oh dear, no ! It's mental. He

seems a crowd deal instructor. A little off his
head, perhaps'"

*'• Why, curse it all, Thompson," cried
Candlish excitedly ; '" yoii don't mean that
the blackguard is o-oino' mad"'

•' My dear Sir Thomas — my dear Sir
Thomas"' said the lawyer, in a voice full of
protestation ; '"I really cannot sit here and
listen to you calling my cousin a ."


■•'Then stand up, man. and hear it. He
is a blackguard, and I hate him, and I'd say it
to his face if he were here. Now tell me, is
he really bad ? "

'"' Only a temporary attack. He is suffering,
I'm afraid, from over study. But now to
business."

Stop a minute, man : let me think.
Hang the business ! How much is it ? I'll
write you a cheque. I can now, Thompson,
old chap. Times are altered, eh ? "

•'• Ah, and for the better, Sir Thomas."

"' Here, hold your tongue. Don't talk.
Let me see : not married ; neither chick nor
child ; no brother. Why, Thompson, if North

VOL. III. H

—curse him ! — died, you'd have the Manor
House ! "

Should I ! " said Cousin Thompson,
raising his eyebrows thoughtfully. '' Well,
yes, I suppose I am next of kin. But Horace
North will outlive me."

Is he quite off his head ? "

Hush ! don't talk about it, my dear sir.
Poor fellow, he is ill; but not so very bad.
I shouldn't like it to get about amongst his
patients. People chatter and exaggerate to
such an extent."

Tom Candlish smoked furiously for a few
moments, and then cast away the end of his
cigar, and lit another, biting the end, and
frowning at his visitor.

Now about business," said Thompson, at
last.

Curse business ! " cried the squire, as he
kept on watching the lawyer keenly. " Look
here, Thompson, how was it that you two
being cousins, he has so much money, and
you're as poor as Job ? "

Way of the world, my dear sir — way of
the world."

Tom Candlisli sat back, chewing the end
of his cigar and smoking hard.

Look here, you Thompson ! Now outwith
it; you don't like Dr. North?"

"Like him? I hate all doctors; just as
you do."

'* That's shuffling out of it," said Candlish
scornfully ; '' but you needn't be afraid of
me. I'm open enough. I'm not above
speaking out and telling you I hate him. I
wish you'd make a set on his pocket, and
bleed him as you are so precious fond of
bleediucr meo



"Oh, nonsense, nonsense!" said Cousin
Thompson laughingly ; and then the two
men sat smoking and o-azino- one at the other
in silence till their cigars were finished.

•' Take another," said the squire, handing
the case lying upon the table.

Thompson took another, and Tom Candlish
lit his third, to lie back in his chair, smoking
very placidly, and staring from time to time
at Thompson, who watched him in turn in a
very matter-of-fact, amused way.

They rarely spoke, and when they did it

was upon indifferent themes ; but by degrees
a mutual understanding seemed to be growing
up between them, dealing in some occult way
with Horace North's health and his position in
Duke's Hampton. The Manor House estate,
too, seemed to have something to do with
their silent communing.

This lasted till the lawyer's second and
the squire's third cigar were finished, and a
certain amount of liquid refreshment had
been consumed as well. Then Cousin Thompson
suddenly threw away the stump of
tobacco-leaf he had left.

"Now suppose we finish our bit of business
? "

"All right," said Candlish sulkily; and
after reference to certain memoranda laid
before him, he opened a secretary, wrote a
cheque, and handed it to the lawyer.

Thanks ; that's right," said the latter,
doubling the slip, and placing it in his pocketbook.


Going back to town to-night ? " said
Candlish.

"No*'

To-morrow ? "

''No."

'•' When then ? "

•• Depends on how matters turn out," said
Thompson meaningly. '' I suppose if I
wanted a friend I might depend on you ? "

'• Of course, of course," cried the squire
eagerly.

Thanks," said Cousin Thompson. '" I
shall not forget, but I don't think I shall
want any help. Good-bye."

Good-bye," said Tom Ccindlish warmly.

A wish of a mutual character, expressed
in a contraction — that God might be with
two as utter scoundrels as ever communed
together over a half-hatched plot.

'•' Mrs. Milt," said Cousin Thompson, ashe
entered the Manor that night, '• I have
been thinking over matters, and you need
not say much to your master, but I feel it to
be my duty to stay here for the present, and
look after his affairs."

"But really, sir '"

'• Have the goodness to remember who
you are, Mrs. Milt. Leave the room ! "

And him going about in the dark
watches of the night like a madman,"
sighed Mrs. Milt, as soon as she was alone.
If that wretch sees him, what will he
think ? "

That wretch," to wit, Cousin Thompson,
was biting his nails in North's library, and
listening to a regular tramp upstairs.

Strange thing," he said, " but as soon asa
man's head is touched, he grows more
and more like a four-footed beast."

He smiled and listened. All was very
still now, and he set to work searching
drawers and the bureau for material that
might be useful to him in the settlement of
Horace North's affairs, and as he searched
he talked to himself.

"Let me see: it was Nebuchadnezzar —
wasn't it ? — who used to go about on hands
and knees eating grass."

He examined a document or two, but did
not seem satisfied with the result.

Hah ! poor Horace ! " he said. " I'm
very sorry for him, but I must do my duty
to society, and to him as well."

He started, for the door-handle had been
touched, and, quick as lightning, he dropped
the papers he held, and blew down the
chimney of the lamp.

The door cracked, and as it opened
slio'htlv he could hear the church clock

o

chiming, and then a deep-toned one boomed
forth.

There was a something beside sound
entered, for by the faint light which streamed
in over the top of the shutters he could see
a dark Ijlotch moving slightly, and, as he
felt chilled to the marrow, the dark patch
changed slowly to a dimly-seen face of so
ghastly a kind that he stood there o-azino*
wildly, and fixed helplessly to the spot.

cous Thompson's tooth-ache.

PtEGULARLY day after day.

The restless, wild-beast pace went on upstairs
with intervals hour after hour, as, for
the first time for many years, Horace North
felt the terrible side of his lonely life, and
the want of some one in whom he could
really confide — mother, wife, sister — who
would believe in him fully; but there were
none.

His life of study had made him self-sustaining
until now. He had had no great
call made upon him. But now there was
the want, and he sat for hours thinking of
his state, only to spring up again and tramp
his room.

To whom could he fly for counsel — Salis ?
The old housekeeper? The old doctor in
London ? Thompson, his cousin, then in
the place .-

'• Xo, no, no ! How could I explain myself
." If 1 told all my feelings, all I have
done, they would say that I was mad.

•'It is impossible to speak"' he panted.
•■ I am chained — thoroughly chained"'

He paused in his wearying tramp, for,
like a light, there seemed to come in upon
him the soft, sweet face of Mary, with her
gentle look and luminous eye. She might
help him, poor suffering woman. But no, no,
no ! It was impossible : he could not speak.

The time had come round again when, to
relieve the terrible tedium of his life, he
went out of his room — waiting always till
the house was silent and all asleep.

He opened his door and went out cautiously,
to descend to the hall, and after
hesitating for a few minutes, he laid his
hand upon the fastening of the front door,
as if to go out, but shook his head and
turned away.

Going silently into the cheerless drawing-room,
he paced that, and then the diningroom
in turn, till, wearying of this, he
crossed to the study to open the door, paused
for a moment or two, startled by the loud
crack it gave, for the study seemed associated
in his mind with the horror of the
position he had brought upon himself.

Then, thrusting in his head slowly, it
seemed to him that he was at last free, for
there before him, embodied for the time,
was Luke Candlish rising from a chair,
much as we had last seen him at his home ;
and as he gazed wildly at the face dimly
seen in the dark, it seemed to him the time
had indeed come when he could crush his
haunting enemy beneath his heel, and, rushing
forward, he tried to catch him by the
throat.

Now," shouted North fiercely, " I have
given you back your life ; take it, and give
me back mine in rest and peace, or, as I
restored, so will I destroy."

His hands dropped to his side, and he
uttered a low moan and shrank away.

Not that it was all imagination, for he
knew that he had tightly grasped a living,
breathing form, which had uttered a cry of
dread, and then exclaimed :

"Horace — Ho race, old fellow, are you mad?"

There was a loud rustling, a faint rattling;
sound, as North staggered to the side of the
room and sank upon the couch. Then
came a scratching noise, the flash of a
match, and the tiny wax light emitting
a bluish flame threw up the pale, smooth
face of Cousin Thompson, whose eyes were
dilated with fear.

He hurried to the chimney-piece, and lit
one of the candles in a bronze stand.

Why, Horace, old fellow, what are you
about"' he cried, trembling. "Thank goodness,
it is you. '

North muttered some words indelibly,
afraid to trust himself to speak, and covered
his face with his hands.

'•' Why, what's the matter, old fellow ? "
said Thompson, laughing. "Oh, I see;
you've been shut up so long, you can't bear
the light. How ridiculous, isn't it ? "'

North remained silent.

I heard a noise, and knowing you were
ill, felt it my duty to come down. 1 could
tell that some one was prowling about, and
backed in here with my fist ready doubled
to strike, but you were too quick for me.
I'm glad I spoke."

Still no answer.

"By Jove! what a joke! You took me
for a burglar ; I took you for one. What
a blessing that we were not armed ! "

Armed ? " said North slowly.

Yes. Why, you might have sent a
bullet through me. Well, I am glad that
confounded tooth kept me awake. It has
given me a chance of seeing you. Why, I
had only just lain down in my clothes, after
stamping about the room till I was afraid
I should disturb the house. Give me something
for it, there's a good fellow."

North hesitated for a few moments,
trembling lest he should say words that
would excite his cousin's attention ; but at
last he rose with one hand across his
eyes"'

What, are your eyes so bad ? '' said
Cousin Thompson.

Yes," was the laconic reply ; and North
went to the suroferv, took a small bottle
from a drawer, the clink of a stopper or
two was heard, and a peculiar smell arose,
as Thompson noted, with eager eyes, how
his cousin kept his back to him while
dropping a small quantity from each of the
bottles he took down.

■' Can you see ? " said Cousin Thompson,
holding the candle.

Yes, I can see, thank you"' said North,
replacing the bottles on the shelf, and fitting
a cork to that he held, before labelling it
•'•' poison"'

'■' Rub a little of that upon the outside of
your face ; it will allay the pain."

•' It's awfully good of you"' said Thompson
smoothly, '' specially now you're so ill.
Thanks. Eub a little outside, don't you
say ? I suppose this ' poison ' is only a scarecrow.
It wouldn't hurt me if I took the
lot."

"No," said North quietly. 'rit would

not hurt you. The sensation would lee
rather pleasant."

I thought as much," said Cousin Thompson,
who, while he played with the bottle,
watched North narrowly.

But," added the doctor impressively,
I should make my will first, if I were you."

"Why?"

Because tomorrow morning you would
be past the power of doing so."

"Oh, I say, old fellow, is it so bad as
that? Make my will, eh? Physician, heal
thyself! Why, you haven't made yours."

"No," said North quietly; "I have not
made mine. Good night, I am going to my

room."

morrow ?

One moment — shall I see you tow
?"

"No."

"Well, the next day, then?"

"Doubtful," said North hurriedly, and
he walked brusquely by his cousin to hurry
to the staircase, and up to his own room.

I thought not," muttered Cousin Thompson.
"That was a brood bold shot right in

the bull's-eye. Now, Master Horace, the
old adage is going to be proved. Every dog-has
his dav, and this doo is o-oincr to have his.
How many times have you lent him money
in a cursed OTuclo'ina curmudo-eon - like

CD O ~ •' O

spirit ? How often have I come here, worn
out with worry and scheming; to o-et an
honest living, and you have received me —
you rolling in riches — with a churlish hospitality
such as I should have thrown back
at you if I had not been so poor ? Never
mind, my dear boy ; the world turns round,
and those who are down to-day are up tomorrow.
I can make Squire Tom squeak to
a pretty tune whenever I like, and the
widow — well, she's not a bad sort of woman
to come and sit in the nest she has helped
to line. ' Manor House, Duke's Hampton :
Manor House, Duke's Hampton !' Not a
bad address. There are worse things than
being a country gentleman — county magistrate
is the proper term. Yes, my dear
cousin, things look brighter than they have
looked for years. What a blessed thing is
the British law, especially where a medical

question comes in. The fruit's about ripe,
and if I do not stretch out my hand to pick
it, why, I must be a fool''

Fool ! " he said, as he stood there
smiling, with the lighted candle in his hand,
casting strange shadows upon the lower
portions of his countenance. " Fool — fool —
fool ! No," he said softly, as he shook his
head. " I have a few failings : I am a little
weak. I admire a soft, plump, pleasant-looking
widow — with money — like Mrs.
Berens. I like money — plenty of money,
and I like Duke's Hampton ; but those are
only amiable weaknesses, and I don't think
I'm a fool."

He held up the candle and looked round
as if enjoying the sense of possession, and
his eyes rested on the good old-fashioned
furniture, the choice selection of books, a
bronze or two, and a couple of paintings by
a master hand : all of which his twinkling
eyes seemed to appraise and catalogue at a
glance.

'•'Yes," he said, smiling softly, "things
look a good deal brighter now, and I like

Make's Hampton quite well enough to come
and live in — with a wife."

He took a step or two towards the door,
and paused once more, evidently enjoying his
self-communing.

No ! There was a decision about that no
which I liked, my dear cousin. No : he has
not made his will. But it does not matter, my
dear boy — not in the least, for, as far as I
know, you arc not going to die'*

His face lost its smile here, and he took
the little bottle he had received softly from his
pocket, and held it to the light.

* Po ISO n. For out wa rd application o only. ' '

He read the words slowly.

Yes," he said, " that would be a dangerous
thing in the hands of some men who saw a
life standing between them and a goodly
property. But no, my pretty drops I You
may go back again. Not for me. I am a
lawyer, and I know the law. What idiots
some men have been, and at what cost to
themselves ! Bat, then, they were not lawyers,
and did not know the law Now, then, fora
good night's rest. And tomorrow. Hah ! "

VOL. III. I

A VISIT IN THE Dark.

'' I don't like it, Mary. North lias completely
shut himself up. He will not even see Mrs.
Milt, so she tells me, and she is getting very
uneasy about his state."

Mary looked up at her brother. She could
not trust herself to speak.

*' I pity him, and yet I feel annoyed and
hurt, for I gave him credit for greater strength
of mind."

Mary felt that she knew what was coming,
but she dared not open her lips.

Of course it was very painful to find
out the woman he had made his idol was
trifling with him, but I should have thought
that Horace North would have proved himself

to be a man of the world, borne lii.^
burden patiently, and been enough of a
philosopher to go on this way without breaking
down."

But he is very ill."

111 ! " said Sails. " I feel disposed to go
and shake him, and rouse him up. To tell
him that this is not manly on his part."

And yet you own that he is suffering,
Hartley."

Suffering ? Yes ; but he has no business
to be suffering about a woman like —
there, there, I am forgetting myself. Poor
fellow ! he must be very ill. You see, the
upset came when he was worn out with the
study and intricacies of that pet theory of
his, and hence it is that he is now so low."

Mary lay back with her eyes half closed
for some time, and there was silence in the
room.

"Where is Leo ? " said Sails, at length.

In her room — readings

Heaven she seems to be settling
down calmly now. Surely this life-storm is
past, Mary."

I 2

I pray that it may be, Hartley," lie
said softly ; but there was a shadow of
doubt in her words.

Well," said Salis, rising, " I must go and
have a look round."

Going out, dear ? "

Yes. I seem to have been very neglectful
of the people lately."

Stop a minute, Hartley," said Mary,
with a vivid colour in her cheeks.

You want to say something ? "

"Yes, dear; I wish — I wish to speak to
you about Dr. North."

Well, what about him, my child ? "

Hartley, when we were ill, he was always
here. No pains seemed to be too great for
him to take."

Yes, no man could have been more
attentive."

"And now, Hartley, he, too, is ill —
seriously ill."

Yes, I'm afraid so."

Then don't you think it is a duty to
try everything possible to help him in
turn ? "

Of course, and I have tried ; but what
can I do ? He will not see me. and that
cousin of his, who, by the way, seems to
have a great deal of business with Mrs.
Berens, evidently does not w-ant me there."

"But ought you to study that, Hartley,
when your friend is ill ? "

*' I have thought all this out, Mary, and I
feel sometimes as if I could do uothinof. You
see it is like this : I feel certain that North
does not want to see me."

Why, dear ? " said Mary earnestly.

'* Because it reminds him too much of
his trouble with Leo. He feels that very
bitterly, and I know my presence would
bring it up. Would it not be better to keep
away, and let his nerves settle themselves
? "

"No," said Mary, in a quiet, firm way.
'• It was no fault of yours. It was Dr. North's
own seeking, and he needs help. Go to him,
Hartley."

Go to him ? "

"Yes. He must be in sore trouble in
every way. You say his cousin is there ? "

"Yes, and if I went much I should quarrel
with that man."

''No, no; you must not quarrel. But
recollect how Horace North used to say that
lie felt obliged to be civil to him, but he
wished he would not come."

Yes : I remember."

"Then go to him, and be at his side, dear,
in case he requires help and counsel. Remember
you are his friend. Even if he
seemed querulous and fretful, I should
stay."

"You are right, Mary; I'll go. I shall
have some one to help me in Mrs. Milt. I
will stand by him,"

Mary's eyes brightened, and she held out
her hand.

He will thank you some day, dear; even
if he seems strange now."

He may say what he likes and do v^hat
he likes," said Salis warmly. " I ought not
to have needed telling this ; but I'm going
to make up for past neglect now and play
the part of dog."

Salis was a little late in his promise to

play the part of watch-dog for his friend, for
as he walked up to the Manor House it was
to meet a carriage just driving out.

'• The fly from the ' Bull ' at King's Hampton
and a pair of horses," said Salis as he
walked od, apparently paying no heed to
the inmates of the carriage. " Now, whoever
would these be ? White cravat, one
of them ; the other thin, spare, and dark.
Doctors, for a sovereign, I'd say, if I were
not a parson."

Mrs. Milt opened the door to him, and
showed him into the drawing-room, whose
window looked down the back garden with
its great clump of evergreens and shady
walks, beyond which were the meadows
through which the river ran.

'•' Fm very glad," said Salis eagerly ;
'•' your master has had a couple of doctors to
see him, has he not ? "

No, sir ; oh, dear, no ! " said the housekeeper
sadly. '" If you would only see him,
and persuade him to, and get him to see a
clever man. sir, it would be the best day's
work you ever did."

I'll try, Mrs. Milt," said Sails ; " but I'm
disappointed."

So am I, sir. He wants doing good to,
instead of trying to do good to other people.
Those are some friends of Mr. Thompson,
sir. One of them's got a very curious complaint
that Mr. Thompson said master was
almost the only man who knew how to
cure."

And did he see them ? "

Yes, sir, after a great deal of persuasion,
and almost a quarrel, sir. I could hear
master and Mr. Thompson, sir, talking
through the door, and he said master ought
to be ashamed of himself if he let a gentleman
who was suffering: come down from
town and drive all the way across from
King's Hampton in the hope of being cured,
and then let him go back without seeing
him."

Yes, Mrs. Milt ; go on," said the curate
eagerly.

Well, sir, after a long fight Mr. Thompson
went away, but he went and tried again
and master gave way directly, and went

clown in his dressing-gown, looking all white

and scared, and saw those two gentlemen
who have just gone away."

*swell, I'm glad of that— heartily glad,"
said Salis. "' It is the thin end of the wedge,
Mrs. ]spilt, and we have good cause to be
grateful to Mr. Thompson for what he has
done. Seeing patients again 1 This is good
news indeed. He will see me now."

Mrs. Milt shook her head.

I'm afraid not, sir."

I must be a patient."

You, sir i Why, you look the picture of
Health."

But I have been very patient, Mrs.
Milt," said Salis, laughing.

"Ah, sir, and so have I," said the housekeeper
dolefully : " and a deal I've suffered,
what with master's illness, and my conscience."


The old lady put her apron to her eyes,
and gave vent to a low sob.

"Your conscience, Mrs. Milt," said Salis,
smiling. '' Why, I should have thought that
was clear enough."

Clear, sir ? Oh, no ! It's many a bitter
night I've spent thinking of my temper, and
the way I've worried poor master when he's
had all his work on his shoulders. I've
helped to make him what he is. Oh, there's
that man, sir ! "

She drew the curate within and closed
the door, for steps were heard, and Cousin
Thompson passed round from the back-garden
to go down to the gate.

He's gone out, sir ; and I'll try now if
master will see you. It worries him dreadfully
his cousin being here, and it always
did."

Closing and fastening the door the housekeeper
led the way to the first-floor landing,
and, signing to Salis to be silent, she tapped
gently at the doctor's door.

The moment before they had faintly heard
the sound of some one pacing to and fro,
but at the first tap on the door this ceased.
There was no answer.

The housekeeper knocked again, and in
simple, old English, country fashion called
gently :

Master, master ! "

Still there was no response ; but she persevered,
and knocked ao^ain.

Master, master ! "

Yes, what is it ? " came from within ;
and Mrs. Milt turned and gave the curate a
satisfied nod, as she said :

'• Mr. Salis, sir. He woukl like to see
you.

There was a pause, and then hoarsely :

'' Tell Mr. Salis I am ill, and can see no

J)
one.

The curate was about to speak, but Mrs.
Milt hastily raised her hand.

But I'm sure he'd like to see you very
much, sir. Mr. Thompson's gone out."

'tell Mr. Salis "

There was a pause, and the curate went
close to the door.

"North, old fellow," he said gently;
don't turn your back on all your friends.
What have I done to be treated thus ? "

There was another pause, during which
those on the landing listened anxiously for
some response from within.

But all remained perfectly still, and Salis
ventured to appeal again.

I will not stop longer than you like,
old fellow," he said ; " but I am uneasy,
and "

He was interrupted by the sharp snap
made by the lock of the door. Then the
handle was turned, and a long slit of darkness
was revealed.

Come in," said a harsh voice ; and Salis
turned and save Mrs. Milt a satisfied nod
and smile, as he entered North's room and
closed the door.

The sensation was strange, that passing
from broad daylight into intense darkness,
and Salis tried to recall the configuration of
the room, and the position of window and
bed, as he felt North brush past him, and
lock the door.

For it was evident that an attempt had
been made to exclude every ray of light, and
not without success.

Well, I am glad — I was going to says to
see you, old fellow," cried Salis. 'hadn't

you better open the curtains and the
window ? This room smells very faint."

Brandy spilt," said North, alluding to
his accident of many days before.

Brandy ? Why, the place smells of
laudanum and chloroform, and goodness
knows what besides."

You wanted to speak to me," said
North.

Yes, I've a great deal to say ; but I
should like to sit down."

There is a chair on your left."

*' Ah, yes. Thanks," said Salis, feeling
about until he touched it, and sitting down.
"Where are you?"

Sitting on the bed."

Well, I suppose you have a reason for
this blind-man's-buff work. Eyes bad?"

'' Very."

May I say a few words to you about
getting advice ? "

"Aren't you afraid of shutting yourself
up with me here in the dark ? There are
razors in that drawer. There's a bottle of

prussic acid on the dressing-table. "Why,
parson, you're a fool!"

The voice seemed changed, and this speech
was followed by a curious mocking laugh
which ran through Salis and made him
shrink ; but he recovered himself directly.

"No," he said stoutly; "I am not
afraid."

"No, you are not afraid'' came softly
from out of the darkness.

Come, North, old fellow," continued
Salis ; " we are old friends. You have helped
me when 1 have been in sore distress ; forgive
me, now that I know you are in trouble,
for thrusting myself upon you."

"I have nothing to forgive."

Then let me help you. Believe me that
Mary and I are both terribly concerned
about your health. Tell me what 1 can do."

There was a pause ; then a low, piteous
sigh ; and from out of the darkness came the
word —

Nothing 1"

I can't understand, your complaint, of
course, old fellow ; but tell me one thing.

Are you sufficiently compos mentis to know
what to do for yourself for the best 1 "

Quite, Salis, quite"" said North slowly.

'•'And you are ill. and are carrying out a
definite line of action ? "'

'' I am doing what is really — what is for
the bestir"'

And you do not need help — additional
advice ? "

'' If I did, a letter or telegram would bringdown
a couple of London's most eminent
men ; but they could do nothing."

Salis sighed.

"But can I do nothing"'

'• Only help me to have perfect rest and
peace. "

But about your patients ? Forelock is
complaining bitterly."

My patients must go elsewhere," said
North slowly. " I cannot see anybody."

don't think I am moved by curiosity ;
but are you sure that you are doing what is
best for yourself ? "

'' Quite sure. Let me cure myself my own
way, and — and "

'' Well— what, old fellow ? " said salis, for
the doctor had ceased speaking.

Don't take any notice of what I say at
times. I've — I've been working a little too
hard, and — at times "

Yes, at times ? "

I feel a little delirious, and say things I
should not say at other times — times I say, at
other times."

There was a singularity in his utterance,
and his repetitions, which struck Salis ; and
these broken sentences were strange even ta
the verge of being terrible, coming as they
did out of the darkness before him.

'* Oh, yes ; I understand," he hastened to
say cheerfully. " I know, old fellow. Want
a wet towel about your head and rest."

Yes — and rest," said North quietly.

"Best and plenty of sleep. I set your
disorder down to that," said Salis, as a feeling
of uneasiness which he could not master
seemed to increase. At one moment he felt
that his friend was not in a proper condition
to judge what was best for him ; at another
he concluded that he was ; and that, after all.

it was a strange tliino- that a man could not
do as Le liked in his own house, even to
shutting himself up in a dark room to rest
his eyes.

A strange silence had fallen upon the
place, and, in spite of his efforts, Salis could
not bear it. A dozen subjects sprang to his
lips, and he was about to utter them, but he
felt that they would be inappropriate ; and as
North remained perfectly silent, and the uneasy
feeling consequent upon sitting there in
the darkness, conversing, as it were, with the
invisible, increasing, Salis rose.

*swell," he said, 'Tm glad I came, old
fellow. I haven't bothered you much ? "

'' No."

'* And I may come again ? "

A pause. Then —

eyes."

'• And you'll see me ? "

*^ I cannot see you. I shall be glad if
you'll come. I feel safer and better when
you are here."

Says winced a little. Then a thought
struck him.

VOL. m. K

Look here, old fellow. Come and stay
with us for a change."

North seemed to start violently, and Salis
felt how grave a mistake he had made. Foro



the moment he had forgotten everything about
Leo, and he bit his lip at his folly.

"No. Go now."

Will you shake hands ? "

"No, no," said North passionately. "Go,
man ; go now. Don't come again for some
days."

"As you will. North ; only remember this
a message will fetch me at any time. You
will summon me if I can be of any use ? "

North seemed to utter some words of
assent, and then Salis heard a faint rustling'
sound approaching in the darkness, which, in
spite of his manhood and firmness, made the
curate wince, as he felt how much he was at
North's mercy if this complaint took an unpleasant
mental turn.

But the rustling was explained directly
after by the click of the door-lock. Then a
pale bar of light shone into the room as the
opening enlarged, and as it was evidently held

ready Salis passed out, the door closed sharply
behind him, the lock snapped into its place,
and he shuddered as he heard a low, mocking
laucrh, followed bv the vibration of the floor
as the invalid began to pace rapidly up and
down.

'what ought I to do?" muttered Salis,
as he stood irresolutely upon the mat, till he
felt a touch upon his arm, and, turning, found
that Mrs. Milt had evidently been waiting for
him to come out.

"Well, sir?" she whispered, as they went
down.

"Well, Mrs. Milt?"

"You don't think that he is— a little —
you don't think that is dominion ? "

What, lunacy ? "

The housekeeper nodded.

Absurd, Mrs. Milt ! " cried Salis,
absurd ! "

Thank goodness, sir ! "

"A little out of order and eccentric. But
what made you ask that question ? "

Well, sir, it was something Mr. Thompson
said."

K 2

SALIS MAKES A DISCOVERY.

'' i CANNOT interfere, really, my dear Mary
I cannot interfere. Mrs. Berens is a friend
of yours, and one of my parishioners, but
what can I do ? "

She is alone in the world, and in great
trouble."

*^ But here is a foolish woman ; goes and
listens to a plausible lawyer, and makes at
his suggestion a number of investments, and
then repents and comes to the parson."

Well, to whom better ? " said Mary,
smiling.

"For advice over her sins it would be
right enough," said Salis.

"I don't think Mrs. Berens has anj^ If
so, dear, they must be only small ones."

But to come to the parson for help on
money matters is absurd. This is the third
time she has been."

"Yes. dear."

It is not as if the investments had gone
wrong."

Xo. dear; she mistrusts Mr. Thompson."

'' Perhaps without reason. Let her get
the money back, then, at as little loss as she
caD; and put it in consols."

There, you see, you can give good advice,
Hartley."

'' Oh, any noodle could give advice like
that. It isn't perfect."

'' Xo, dear," said Mary sadly ; " for ^hs.
Berens says that this Mr. Thompson tells
her it is impossible to withdraw now, and it
seems he has been very angry with her —
almost threatening."

Confound his insolence ! "

He told her she ought not to have invested
if she meant to change her mind, and
that she is making a fool of him."

'impossible!" said Salis sharply. "She
mi«rht make him a roo;ue."

"You will help her, will you not, Hartley?"


AVell, I'll see what I can do ; but I shall
be an unfair advocate, for I hate that man."

And you will go and see Mr. North today."


Perhaps' said Salis. " He faithfully
promised to send for me when I could be of
any use, and I may do more harm than goodby
forcing myself there."

Three days had passed since the last visit,
and the suspicions which had flashed through
the curate's brain had faded away as soon
as he had found himself questioned by Mary,
and felt how much she would be alarmed if
he alluded to several little matters in connection
with his interview.

The fact is," he had said to himself
my imagination is too active, and I am
ready to invent horrors and troubles which
are never likely to exist."

It had been a busy morning, for on' of
the rector's customary lectures on the management
of the parish had arrived ; and it wa
only by Mary's special request that a sharp

retort lead not been sent back to a remark in
the rector's letter to the effect that he was
oiad Mr. Salis had taken his advice respecting
his sister's appearance in the hunting-field,
and had put down the unnecessary horse.

It makes me feel disposed to go and
borrow of Horace North, and immediately setup
a carriage and pair, with servants in livery
of mustard and washing blue."

This was an attempt at being comic in
allusion to the rector's showy liveries, which
generally created a sensation in King's
Hampton when he came down to the neighbouring
place and went for a drive.

Mary smiled and went on with her work.

How is Leo this morning ? "

'•'Much better, I think. She was sitting
with me for a long time yesterday evening.
Hartley, I am sure she is undergoing a great
change."

'•' I am very glad, dear," said Salis sadly.

She seemed so quiet and affectionate tome.


Why, of course. Who would not be ? "
said the curate affectionately.

She seemed unwilling to leave me, and
kissed me very tenderly when she went to
bed."

"Vm very glad, dear," said Salis ; "but
I wish she would give up confining herself so
to her room. It will grow into a habit."

Let us wait," said Mary.

'' Yes, dear," said Salis, looking sadly from
the window as he dwelt upon the lives of his
two sisters. ** Time cures a great many ills."

'eyes," said Mary gravely. "What did
Forelock want this morning?"

*wine," said Salis shortly. "And it's
my belief the old rascal can afford to buy it
far better than I can."

And you gave him some ? "

"No," said Salis, with a droll look ; 'the
last bottle in number one bin, of the four
we stood up six weeks ago, went to poor
Sally Frigate."

To be sure, yes," said Mary. " She had
two of the others, had she not ? "

Yes, dear," said Salis, who was trying
hard to get a hair out of his pen. " Old
Mrs. Shames had the other. By the way,

Mary, oughtn't we to have laid down that
wme ^

I believe wine drinkers do generally lay
down wine," said Mary, smiling. " But what
difference does it make ? "

'' They say it keeps better," said the
curate drily. " Ours keeps very badly.
By the way, Forelock incidentally gave
me a bit of news."

*what, dear''

'' Tom Candlish has gone from the Hall
for a tour they say, to restore his health."

'left the Hall?"

*' Yes, and I hope it will be many months
before he returns."

"Yes," said Mary softly; 'rit will be
better. There, now you weill go on and
see Mr. North."

Oh, dear ! who would be a slave ? "
sighed the curate. '' Yes, madam, I will go,
and when I come back I ought to 2:0 and see
Mrs. Berens, and then I shall be led into
acts which will cause Mr. Thompson to
commence an action against me. Result :
ruin, and our quitting Duke's Hampton."

*' Did you not say to me that your
imagination was too active ? " said Mary,
smiling.

Yes, I did. What then ? "

You were quite right," said Mary ;
'sit is."

Salis laughed and went on this mission,
but in half-an-hour he was back, and Mary
looked up at him wonderingly.

'' Back so soon ? " she said ; and then with
her heart beating frightfully, and a look of
agony in hei* face that came as a revelation
to Salis, she stretched out lier bands to her
brother, her fingers twitching spasmodically,
as she uttered a wild cry, which brought him
to her feet.

Mary ! My dear child ! Be calm ! " he
panted, for he was evidently out of breath.

Speak ! " she cried. '' Have pity on my
helplessness. I am chained here by my
affliction, and depend on you alone. Don't
torture me — don't keep me in suspense.
Horace North?"

Yes ; only be calm, dear."

"You are temporising," cried the poor

girl wildly, as she clung to his hands and
began to kiss them passionately. " Hartley —
Hartley', for pity's sake, speak ! "

If you will only be calm," he cried
angrily. " This is hysterical madness. You
are hindering me when I come back to you
for help and advice."

Mary uttered a piteous moan, and set her
teeth, as she clung still to her brother's
hands.

"Tell me the worst," she implored. *'I
can bear that more easily than this suspense."

Sails gazed at his sister more wildly, ashe,
for the first time, read, in her anguished
looks and broken words, the secret which she
had kept so well.

For the moment he was as one in a nightmare.
He strove to speak, but something
seemed to keep him dumb, while all the time
she kept on moaning appeal after appeal
to him to tell her all.

I thought little of it then," he said ;
but now the idea seems to have grown
stronger and more terrible. Avoids he used
which I did not heed then seem to bear a

terrible import now, and I cannot help
thinking that something ought to be done."

'you saw him just now?" said Mary
hastily.

''No, but I spoke with Mrs. Milt, and she
is terribly uneasy. Mary, dear, for your own
sake, spare me this."

''No," said the suffering woman sternly;
you can tell me nothing so bad as I shall
imagine if you are silent. Tell me the very
worst. He is dead ? "

"No, no, no!" cried Salis ; "but I fear
for him. He is not in a condition to be
left, and yet, strive how I may, I cannot get
him to listen to reason."

But you have not seen him again ? "

No ; he is now shut up in the library,
and Mrs. Milt has a terrible account of his
eccentricity ; she fears that he is going "

No, no, no ! Don't say that," cried
Mary; "it is too horrible. But quick!
What are you going to do ? "

"Drive over to King's Hampton, take the
train to Lancaster, and come back with two
of the principal physicians."

"No," said Mary sharply. 'telegraph
at once to Mr. Delton. Tell him his friend
North is in urgent need of his help. He
believes in North, and looks upon him almost
as a son. His advice will be worth that of a
dozen Lancaster physicians."

'mary, you're a pearl among women, '^'
cried Sails.

"Don't stop to speak," she cried, with an
energy that startled him. " Your friend's life
his reason — is in peril. Go ! "

My friend ; the man that poor broken-spirited
creature loves," muttered Salis, as he
hurried away, and was soon after urging his
hired pony to a gallop.

Oh, what moles we men are ! " he said,
as the hedges and trees flew by him. "But
who could have suspected her of caring for
him ? Lying crushed and broken there, and
no one suspecting the agonies she must have
suffered."

Realising by slow degrees the depth of his
sister's love for North, and the life she must
have led, Salis urged the pony on to reach
King's Hampton at last, and hurry to the

post-office, to despatch his telegram beseeching
the old doctor to send a reply ; and for
this he determined to sit down and wait, but
only to pace the coffee-room of the nearest
hotel, with his mind a chaos of bewildering
ideas, as he wondered what was to be the end
of this new trouble which had come upon his
house.

A STORMY INTERVIEW.

The old housekeeper had indeed a long series
of eccentricities to record to Salis, speaking
freely to him, as to her . master's firmest
friend, though what she knew and had
diminished in intensity more than magnified
vas but a tithe of that which had occurred.

For it had been a terrible period for the
young doctor. Half wrecked by the mental
and bodily injuries he had received, the course
he had pursued in shutting himself up alone,
dreading to be surprised in suddenly uttering
some wild speech or committing some
vagary, had intensified the abnormal condition
of his brain till his sufferings seemed to stow
unbearable.

One hour he felt at peace, the next he had
none, and asked himself what he was to do to
escape the terrible unseen presence that was
always with him, never addressing him, but,
as it were, making his body the medium by
which he communicated with the world.

I can bear it no longer," North said to
himself at last. " There must be rest for me
if I cannot shake it off."

He shuddered slightly as he paced his
darkened room, knowing instinctively how
many steps to take in each direction, and
what to avoid. For Death, familiar as it was
to him, was not without its terrors.

He was so young, and, as it seemed now,
the hopes of the past arose once more before
him, the faith in the prizes of fame which he
would win, his love for Leo, and the promises
which had led him on.

But so sure as these thoughts assumed
form there was another to rise like a dense
cloud of horror and cover everything, as he
felt that, come what might, he would be
haunted ever by this unseen presence — the

spirit which he had freed from its envelope of
clay — and this could have but one end.

He felt that he had tried everything. He
had forced himself to calmness, and marked out
course after course of treatment such as he
would have prescribed to some poor wretch
who had consulted him in such a case ; and
when all was still at nio'ht he had stolen down
to his surgery, and mingled for his own use
sedatives and tonics, but all to no effect. If
anything, his malady increased.

Two days before Salis had gone over to
King's Hampton, Cousin Thompson came once
more to his bedroom door, to beg that he
would come down and see his friend.

'* It is impossible," he had replied hoarsely.

'but he has come down again, vastly improved
by your treatment ; and without you
he feels that he would be a dying man.
Come, you cannot refuse."

North held out for a time, and at last gave
way, more from the desire of getting rid of his
cousin and the patient than from any wish to
repeat his advice.

VOL. III. L

"Til come this time," he said; 'but this
visit must be final. There are hundreds
of doctors who can advise the man better
than I."

*' Doubtless," said Cousin Thompson ;
but that is not the point. There is not
one in any of those hundreds in whom my
poor friend will have the faith that he has in
you."

The aro-ment was unanswerable.
*' I will be down in a few minutes," North
said ; and trying hard to master the nervous
feeling which came over him, and wondering
whether he could get through the interview
without some absurd utterance, he drew aside
the blind to accustom his eyes once more to
the light.

It was some moments before he could
face it, and then he looked despairingly at
the wan, haggard face before him in the
glass.

He shrank from ifc at first, but looked
ao-ain and again, without the feeling of
horror that had pervaded him before. His
countenance was changed, and terribly wau

and drawn ; eyes and cheeks were sunken,
BO that the former seemed set in deep,
cavernous holes ; but as he gazed he did
not seem to dread the sound of mocking



laughter, or of some strange utterance which
he could not control, and proceeded to make
himself somewhat more presentable for those
below.

'•'And they come to me for help," he
muttered, '* who want it more than any man
on earth."

As he opened his door he frowned, for he
caught sight of the old housekeeper hastily
beating a retreat, and a shiver ran through
him as he felt how he was watched.

But he went on down into the hall, where
a low murmur of voices told him that his
visitors were in the drawing-room.

AYhat followed was a matter of a minute
or two.

He entered the room quickly, his coming
having been unheard ; and Cousin Thompson,
who was speaking earnestly to the two
gentlemen from town, started quickly away
and then said hastily :

L 2

''Ah, North! Why, you seem better.
Let me get you a chair. You want no
introductions, and I'll leave you together."

He approached North with a chair, and
the latter took it, gazing keenly at the visitors
the while ; but as Thompson was passing he
caught him by the collar and checked him,
howling him fast, as he threw the chair from
him with a crash.

Thompson turned white as so much curd,
and tried for a moment to extricate himself,
but his cousin's grasp was like iron,
and he turned a pitiable fiice to the two
visitors, the taller of whom advanced
quickly.

"My dear Dr. North," he said, "pray
be calm. Another seat, my dear sir ; pray
sit down."

North seemed as if he had not heard him.
He had searchingly gazed from one to the
other, and then his eyes appeared to blaze
as his left hand joined his right at Thompson's
throat.

You cursed, treacherous, cowardly
hound ! " he literally yelled, and dashing

him Lack ward, so that lie fell with a crash
against a table, which was overturned,
North strode from the room without another
word, and made the house echo with the
bano- he o-ave the door.

Thompson did not attempt to rise till
the visitors held out their hands to assist
horn to a couch.

"My dear sir, are you hurt"' asked the
first man.

'•' Hurt ! " cried Thompson savagely.
'•' Could you be half strangled and then
thrown down without being hurt ? But you
see now. You doubted before ; you see now."

"Yes, perfectly," said the second visitor
calmly. "Oh, yes, I think that we are quite
satisfied now. What do you say?"

Perfectly," said the first slowly ; and
as soon as the lawyer had satisfied himself
that he was not seriously hurt, they adjourned
to the library, where Mrs. Milt was summoned
to provide sherry and biscuits ; and soon
after the two visitors re-entered their carriage,
and were driven back to King's Hampton
in time to catch the first train back to town.

MES. MILT TAKES UP LUNCH.

"The last hope gone!" cried North, as he
rushed upstairs and entered his room, to
close and lock the door, overcome, as it were,
with a despairing dread.

I might have known it," he panted
excitedly. '^ The cruel, treacherous hound !
I mio^ht have known that he had some
hidden meaning in what he was doing.
Friend from town — no faith in any one but
me, forsooth ! And I such a miserable, easily
deceived child that I was ready to believe
It all."

Without thinking of what he did, he
seated himself at the dressing-table, rested
his elbows thereof, and gazed straight before

him in the glass, but without seeing his
distorted, hao-orard face.

"And it has come to that !" he groaned.
^■' He, in his cunning, is taking all the necessary
steps, such as a legal practitioner would
know to be necessary, and I am to be carried
off on these men's certificates to some death
in life, while my affectionate Cousin Thompson
takes possession here.

'' And he could'' he mused ; '*' everything
has been arranged for him. I am not mad ;
I am perfectly sane, but, Heaven knows, I am
acting like a madman — like one possessed. I
go always with this terrible shadow enveloping
me, and I cannot shake it off, try how I may''

What shall I do ?

Salis : Xo, I cannot tell him. Mr.
Delton ? Xo, no, no ! I could not speak out.
What would they say ? They must declare
it to be a mania if I tell them the simple
truth, and how dare I confess to having instituted
those experiments on Luke Candlish ?

Was ever man so cursed for his endeavours
? I have branded myself as one
who is mad, and I must bear the stigma."

He clenched Lis fist and glared before
him, recalling the scene in his drawing-room,
and burst into a scornful laugh — a
laugh so full of savage anger that he started
and looked wildly about him in dread.

He calmed down though in a few minutes,
and sat repeating the words that had passed.

'' I must have been blind not to have seen
it before," he cried aloud ; " and now what
is to follow?"

He looked up at the light shining down
through the drawn curtain, and hurriedly
shut it out, to reseat himself and think.

Flight ! Yes, he could easily escape from
his cousin and his machinations — the Continent
— America — or he might boldly face
him, and prove that the charge of lunacy
was without basis.

But how, when he dared not show his
face anywhere lest he should betray himself
before his fellow-men ?

It is of no use," he sighed bitterly ; ''I
am conquered and I must succumb.

But Cousin Thompson ?

Curse him ! " he cried passionately, as

lie rose and began Lis old wild-beast tramp
aojain. "AVhat fate is too bad for such a
man ? Why did I not keep my hold when I
had him by the throat ? "

He stopped short, and in a paroxysm of
mental agony threw himself upon a chair,
nerveless, helpless, ready to give up and
think that his cousin was right, and that
the sooner he was placed under restraint
the better, or else sought that other way
of escape from his troubles.

As he writhed there in his agony, Mrs.
Milt was coming up the stairs with a tray
covered with a fair white napkin, and on
which was a covered dish exhaling an odour
which the old dame had settled in her own
mind would be certain to tempt her master.

Poor fellow ! " she said to herself ; " he's
half starving himself, and perhaps I've done
wrong in letting him have his own way. I
ought to have gone up and made him eat.
He'd have scolded and abused me, but I
should have done him good."

Mrs. Milt lead nearly reached the room,
when she uttered an ejaculation of horror,

and, setting clown the tray upon the carpet,
ran swiftly back to close a baize door.

"If he heard it," she half sobbed, "lie
would think poor master mad, and heaven
knows what would happen then."

She hurried again to where she had left
the tray, and then on to the door, as from
within she heard a wild burst of boisterous
laughter, and then a fierce oath, and the
sounds of a struggle, ending in a crash as of
a table being; overturned.

What shall I do ? " groaned the poor
woman, as, for the moment, she clapped her
hands to her face, and stopped her ears, but
only to snatch them down wildly, as the
strange sounds continued. "He must be
alone here, and if I call for help they'll say
he's mad."

She stood wringing her hands for a
time as a terrible scene appeared to betaking
place within that closed room. There
was the trampling of feet — the sound as of a
struggle. North's voice in angry denunciation
of some one who kept bursting forth
into mocking peals of laughter, and then

slioutinix as men shout when excited with the
chase, till the room re-echoed. Then again
North's voice came, as if speaking furiously
in a low voice, which changed directly
afterwards to one of piteous appeal, breaking
off into a moan. As the doctor's voice
ceased there was another mocking laugh,
apparently from close by the door, and
directly after came a crash as if a chair
had been used as a weapon, a blow had
been struck, and the chair shivered. While
vividly painting the scene in her own mind,
helped as she was hj the sounds, the old
housekeeper seemed to see her master hurl
the portion of a broken chair which remained
in his hands into the corner of the
room, where it rattled upon the floor.

There's murder being done," panted the
old woman, as she caught at the handle of
the door now, and stood clinging to it,
while she pressed her other hand upon her
beavino^ bosom.

As if in answer to her words, there was
another coarse burst of laughter, and the
sound of some one bounding to the door,

two hands seeming to shake the panel, and
her master's voice came through, muffled
but distinct.

Curse you ! I have you now ! Is there
no way of forcing you back into your grave ? "

A loud rustling sound as of a struggle
which was continued to the other side of
the room, and the housekeeper's hair felt to
lier as if something cold and strange were
moving it, while a deathly perspiration broke
out upon her face.

'' Who is in there with him 1 " she thought.
What does it mean ? There must be someone
there, and murder is being done.
Help ! help ! " she shrieked in her agony of
fear, as she rattled the handle of the door,
and beat upon the panels. " Help ! help ! "
and then in her horror she turned and
sta2:2fered towards the stairs, as the door
was flung open, she felt herself seized from
behind and dragged into the room, the door
swinging to, and she was forced backwards
in the utter darkness, listening to the
hoarse sound of the hot breath which
fanned her cheek as a hand was pressed
heavily over her mouth.

AX Opportune Arrival.

*' Silence, you mad woman ! Do you want
to bring them here ? Do you want to have
me dragged away like some miserable
prisoner ? "

'' Oh, master — dear master," sobbed the
frightened woman piteously, as the hand
was removed from her lips, and she sank
at North's knees and embraced them. '' What
does it all mean ? — what does it all mean ? "

What does all what mean ? "

'' All that noise — that noise ? " sobbed the
housekeeper in a broken voice. " Have you
have you killed him ? "

"Killed him?" cried North harshly.
*' Killed whom ? There is no one here."

"There is — there is, sir. I heard it all."

Hush ! " cried North. " Listen. Is anyone
coming ? Did they hear in the
kitchen ? "

"No, sir. I couldn't bear for any one else
but me to hear it all," sobbed the trembling
woman. "1 went back and shut the door."

Then no one has heard — no one knows —
but you ? "

"'No, sir.'

"My cousin?"

He has gone out, sir."

"Hah! Then it is a secret still," muttered
North.

The old housekeeper struggled to her
feet, for his words and manner horrified her.
She alone had heard what had taken place,
and it seemed to her that within a few steps
her master's victim must be lying prone,
and that even her life was not safe now.

Her first instinct was to make for the
door, but he had hold of her wrist, and she
sank once more at his feet, with a low sobbing
cry.

I'm an old woman, now," sh(^ cried,

"and a year or two more or less don't matter
much."

The same harsh, mocking lauo-h broke out
ao'ain, chilling her to the marrow, and then
North uttered a hoarse, harsh expiration of
the breath, and stamped his foot angrily.

Then there was a pause, broken only by
the old woman's painful sobs.

''My poor old Milt," said North gently,
as he raised her from the ground. " Why,
what were you thinking; — that I would do
you any harm ? "'

I — I couldn't help it, sir ; but — but I
don't think so now. Oh, master — dear
master, I thought you had killed some one.
What does it mean? — what does it mean?"

He did not answer for a few moments,
and when he spoke again there was an indescribable,
mournful sadness in his voice.

'what are you thinking?" he said.

She answered with a sob.

"I'll tell you," he said; "you think that
I am mad."

"No, no, no! master — my great, clever,
noble master," cried the old woman passionately.

" Only ill — only very ill ; and you
can cure yourself. Yes, yes ; pray say that
you can ! "

"No," he said bitterly. "No. It has
come to the Avorst. There, go : I am worn
out, and want to rest."

But you will let me help you, dear," she
said, speaking with the tenderness of a
mother towards the boy she worshipped with
a lavish love. " Let me do something —
let me help you, dear. It is overwork.
Your poor brain is troubled. Let me open
the window, and let in light and air, and
then you shall go to bed ; and I'll bathe
your poor head, and you shall tell me what
to mix. You know how I can nurse and tend
you now you are ill."

North took the old woman's head between
his hands as they stood there in the darkness,
and kissed her on the forehead.

*' Yes, the best and gentlest of nurses," he
said quietly.

And you will let me help you, sir ? "

Yes ; but not now. It was a kind of fit
you heard — nothing more. Now go. See

that I am not disturbed. Perhaps I can
sleep. There : you know there is no one
here."

Yes, my dear, of course — of course. I
ought to have known better ; I know now.
And you will try to sleep ? "

*•' Yes — I promise you, yes.

Let me go down and get something for
yon ; tell me what, and the quantities."

"Yes," said North eagerly, for she seemed
to be opening before him the gates of release
from his life of horror ; but he shook his
head as he called to mind how familiar she
was with his surgery, and that if he bade
her mix what he wished, she would turn
suspicious and refuse.

What shall I do, my dear ? " said the old
woman tenderly.

*' Nothing now," he said ; " sleep will be
best. Let me go to sleep."

The old housekeeper sighed ; but she
made no opposition, and let him gently lead
her to the door and shut her out, where she
stood with her apron to her eyes, listening
for a few moments to the loud snap given

VOL. III. M

by the lock, and the dull, low sound of his
pacing feet.

Then the old woman seemed to change.

She let fall her apron and tightened her
lips. Her eyes grew keen and eager, and
she gazed straight before her, deep in
thought.

In a few moments her mind was made up.

"He must have proper help," she said
softly ; and with an activity not to be expected
of one at her time of life, she hurried
up to her bedroom, to come out in a few
minutes dressed for going out.

"I must fetch help," she said eagerly,
and going to North's door she listened for a
few moments more before hurrying down
to the door, when a step on the gravel made
her utter a cry of joy.

The man she was going to seek was
coming up to the house, and the next
minute she had confided to Salis all she felt
and knew, and he had gone back to Mary,
before hurrying away to telegraph to town.

dally's plans.

*rit's little better than murder: it's cruel,
that's what it is. What does he mean by
being ill and shutting himself up, and won't
see anybody ? What right has a doctor to
go and be ill ? Yah ! "

Old Forelock stared his clock full in the
face as it ticked away slowly and regularly
in the most unconcerned way.

Yes ! go it ! " cried the old man, " go on
marking it off, all your minutes and hours,
but I don't mean to die yet, so you needn't
think it. I'm not so old as all that, and if
doctor '11 only get well, I'll astonish some
on 'em."

He changed his position, stared at his fire,

M 2

and laboriously, and with many a groan, got
down his old leaden tobacco box and pipe,
filled slowly, lit up, and began to smoke ;
but somehow he did not seem to enjoy his
pipe, and removed it again and again to goon
muttering to himself.

Well, suppose I did ? A man must
make a few pounds to keep himself out of
the workhouse. They should pay the saxon
better if they didn't want him to. Tchah !
What's a few old bones ? "

There was an interval of smoking, and
then the old man resumed his complaining.

*' Turning ill like that. What did he go
and turn ill like that for, just as I wanted
him so badly ? It's too bad o' doctor. I
wouldn't ha' let him go to the old moslem
if I'd known he'd turn queer afterward.
It's my belief that young Tom Candlish
gave him an ugly knock that night. But I
wasn't there. Hi — hi — hi ! I wasn't there.
I didn't want to be mixed up with it."

He shifted his seat, and as he did so painfully,
his jaw dropped, and he sat fixed and
staring at the window, where at one corner

there was a curious, rough-looking object,
which remained stationary for some time
and then moved slowly till first one and
then a second eye appeared, gazed into the
little cottage interior, and slowly descended
again.

'' Who— who — w-hat's that ? " faltered the
old man. 'ris it — is it — tchah ! It's Joe
Chegg, peeping and prying again to see if
my Daily's here."

Recovering from his scare, the old man
smoked away viciously for a time, and then
grinned hideously.

If I'd only been well," he muttered,
*' and that doctor had let me have some more
of his stuff, I'd ha' took my spade and crops
round by the back, and I'd ha' come hint
that iddit and give him such a flop. Sneaking
alius after my Dally, as if it was like
she'd wed a elinor like him."

*' Why don't doctor come ? " he groaned,
as a twinge made him twist painfully in his
seat. " It's about murder : that's what it is ;
and they all want to get rid of me now —
parson and all ; and then things '11 go to ruin

about the old church. But they may get a
new saxon if they like. Let 'em have Joe
Cheer : I don't care. Much good he'll do
'em. Dish-race to the old church : that's what

o

he'll be ; and go in o' Sundays smelling of
paint and putty, till he most drives Parson
Salis mad. Disgrace to the church : that's
what he'll be. ^ Eh ? eh ? Who's that ?
Who's that? Hallo! Eh? Who's that at
the door ? You, Dally ? Oh, you've come
at last!"

** Yes, granada, I've come at last," said the
girl in a sullen tone.

*'I might ha died for all you'd ha* cared,"
grumbled the old man ; " but I wouldn't —
nay, I wouldn't do that."

Dally made no answer, but plumped herself
down on the old shred hearth rug, and
put her hands round one knee, so as to stare
at the fire.

'swell," said the old man after a pause,
ain't you going to speak ? "

Dally turned and looked at him sharply,
with her brow knit and her mouth tightened
up ; but she only shook her head.

'never been a-nigh me for three days,"
grumbled Forelock ; *' after all I've done for
you. But don't you make too sure. Young
'uns often goes 'fore old folk, and maybe I'll
bury you, and Joe Chegg too, if he don't
mind what he's about."

Dally paid no heed, but stared at the
fire.

Seen doctor ? " said Forelock.

Dally looked round again as if she did
not quite hear his question, and then shook
her head again.

"Never mind ; I don't want him," grumbled
the old man. *' Let him doctor himself. I'm
not so bad but what I can get well without
him. I'm not worn out yet ! I'm not worn
out yet ! "

Dally paid no heed, and her curious attitude
and her silence took the old man's
attention at last. He reached round painfully
till he could get hold of a thick oak stick,
whose hook held it upon the back of the
covered arm-chair.

With this the old man poked at his grandchild
to draw her attention to him.

'' Here, Dally, what's the matter ? Here ! "

** Don't!" cried the girl angrily; but he
poked at her again.

'don't, granada ! do you hear ? " she cried,
giving herself a vicious twist ; but the old
man only chuckled, and deliberately changing
his hold upon his stick, he leaned forward
with one hand upon the arm-chair, till
he could reach Dally easily as she crouched
there, half turned from the old sexton, staring
thoughtfully at the fire.

The old man chuckled softly as he extended
the stick as a shepherd might his
crook, till he could hook Dally by the neck,,
and drew her slowly towards him, grasping
the stick now with both hands.

'don't, granada!" cried the girl fiercely,
as she started up and took hold of the stick
with both hands, getting her neck out of
the hook, and struggling with her grandfather
for its possession, in which she was
triumphant, and ending by nearly dragging
Forelock from his seat, as she made a final
snatch, obtained the stick, and threw it
viciously across the room.

'you — you — sou nearly — you fetch that
stick ! "

''I won't stand it, granada ! " cried Dally,
ignoring his command, and stamping her
foot as she stared at him. " I won't have it I
If he thinks he's got a baby to deal with, like
Leo Salis, he's mistaken."

'' Eh ? eh ? " croaked the old man, staring
at her, and forgetting the stick, as he saw the
girl's excitement.

*she's not going to play with me, gran'fa^
and so I'll tell him'

'' Eh ? Who, Dally ? Joe Chegg ? "

^' He said he'd marry me."

Then sharply :

He's not going to play with me, and so I
precious soon mean to tell him. He should
marry me if I followed him all round the
world for ever. There ! "

She emphasized her words with a stamp,,
and then, taking the old man by the shoulders,,
she pushed him back in his chair, and arranged
his collar and tie — the one, a limp piece of
linen ; the other, something a little more limp
and loose.

'* What's the matter, Dally? What's
wrong, my gel ? "

After the way he has talked to me, and
then to go off like that without a word ! "

"But you don't want him, Dally, and I
don't want him."

Yes, I do ; and I'll have tim, too ! "
cried the girl, with savage vehemence.

Nay, nay. He's an iddit."

Yes, I know that," cried Dally vindictively
; " and a drunken idjut ; but I don't
care for that."

*' He was here to-night, staring in at the
corner of the windy there."

"What, Tom Candlish ? " cried Dally
excitedly.

Nay, nay ; Joe Chegg."

Joe Chegg ! " cried Dally, in a tone of
disgust that would have cut the village 
to the heart. "Who said anything
about Joe Chegg ? I was talking' about young
squire."

Eh ? About young squire ? Well, Dally,
well ? When's it to be ? "

"It's going to be soon, granada, or I'll

know the reason why ; I'm not going to have
him playing Miss Leo off against me."

Nay, that I wouldn't, Dally," cried the
old man.

"She's got to mind, or she may be ill
ao-ain," cried the girl, with a vindictive lookin
her eyes.

111 again ! Has she, Dally ? Nay, nay,
nay, my gel ; you mustn't talk like that."

'mustn't I, granada? but I will," cried
the girl. 'Tm not going to be played with,
and if Tom Candlish wants to drink himself
into a cohen ''

Eh ? What ?— what ? " cried Forelock,
the last word making him prick up his ears.
Nay, nay ; don't you talk like that, my gel.
He's a young, strong man yet."

'' I say if Tom Candlish wants to drink
himself into his coffin, he may. But he's got
to make me Lady Candlish first."

Lady Candlish of the Hall, eh, Dally ?
Lady Candlish of the Hall ? Ay, ay ! Let
him make you Lady Candlish first. Dally."

Yes, and then he may drink himself into
his coffin as soon as he likes."

*rand I'll bury him, eh, Dally? In the
old moslem, eh ? And doctor can "

He stopped short with a chuckle, and
rubbed his hands.

*eyes, the doctor can try and stop him
from drinking, for I can't," said Dally acidly.
*' It's of no use to talk to him."

"And you wouldn't break your heart,
Dally, if he was to die, would you ? " said the
old man, with a chuckle.

I should if he was to die now, granada,"
said the girl ; " but when he marries me he
can do what he likes."

Ay, when he's married you, Dally, and
you've got the Hall and all his money.
But, look here. Dally ; I want doctor to
come and see me and bring me some of his
stuff. You go up and tell him he must
come — that I say he must come ; I want
him. Tell him I say he is to come, and
that he is to bring some o' that stuff he give
nie those nights. You say o' those nights,
and he'll know. Rare stuff, Dally, as goes
right down into your toes. Eare stuff, assets

you up and makes you have a good nap
.sometimes."

Dally looked at the sexton searchingly.

You're not looking well, granada," she
said.

'' Nay, I look lyell enough, but I do want
the doctor a bit."

You see you're a very old man now."

Tchah ! stuff ! Old ? I'm not an old
man yet. Lots o' go in me. Man takes care
of himself, and he ought to live to two
hundred."

Two hundred, granada ! " cried the girl,
looking at him wonderingly.

'* Ay. Why not ? Look at the patriarchs,
seven and eight and nine hundred.
I don't mean to die yet, Dally," he chuckled ;
'' and you'll have a long time to wait if you
think you want the bit o' money I've saved up."

'' Where do you keep that stuff now,
granada ? "

*' What stuff? " said the old man.

That stuff you used to keep in the bluebottle
in the corner cupboard."

How did you know I kept stuff in that
corner cupboard ? '^

Because I looked," said the girl pertly.

Then I won t have you look in my cupboards.
I "

Why not ? '' said Dally calmly. " There,
I know, granada, most everything you've
got. Now, tell me, what have you done
with that bottle that you used to use for
your eyes ? "

Poured it away, and put the bottle in
the fire."

Oh, granada ! "

"My eyes are right enough now, and I
didn't want to go some night in the dark
candles cost money. Dally — and take the
wrong stuff. Doctor gives me some drops
in a little bottle, and I shouldn't ha' liked
to make a mistake."

'•' And you've thrown it all away ? " said
the girl in a disappointed tone.

'say, my gel. It was poison, only to
use outside, and you wouldn't ha' liked your
poor old granada to make a mistake ? "

*' Gone ! " said Dally, to herself.

Now, you go to doctor and say your
granada wants him. Tell him I say it's all
nonsense for him to be ill, and he must
come."

'eyes, granada."

'rand you wait, Dally. I ain't an old
man yet, but I shall be sure to die some
day, and then there'll be a bit o' money
for you."

'' I don't want your money, granada," she
said sourly, as the old man grinned and
rubbed his hands.

That's right. Good gel. Be independent,"
he said. " Now go and tell doctor
he must come."

Dally did not stir, but stood gazing
straight before her thoughtfully.

•' How much does it cost to go to London,
granada ? " she said, at last, as the old man
beat upon the arm of his chair to take her
attention.

"Heaps o' money — heaps o' money. What
do you want to know for ? "

Because I'm going there."
'going? What for?

To find him and bring him back."

Thatcher talking about ? You go and
fetch doctor."

'about Tom Candlish. I went to the
Hall last night, and he was gone."

'what, young squire? Well, you mustn't
go after him, gel."

Yes, I must," said Dally, with a lurid
look in her dark eyes. "I'm going after
him to bring him back here, granada. But
are you sure you threw that stuff" away ? "

Ay, I'm sure enough. Now go and
fetch doctor, I tell you ; and ask him to
give you some more of it if your eyes are
bad. Now go."

Dally nodded shortly, neither displaying,
nor being expected to display, any affection
for her grandfather, as she left the cottage ;
when the old man relit his pipe and sat back
thinking as he smoked.

"What does she want with that stuff?"
he said thoughtfully; "tis poison, and she
snowed where it was. She wouldn't want
to take none herself. She wouldn't do that ;
and she wouldn't want to give none to Tom

Candlish, because that wouldn't make him
many her. 1 essay she wants it — she wants

it— to "

The old man's drowsy head had sunk back,
his pipe-holding hand fell in his lap, and he
slept heavily, to wake, after a few hours,
cold and shivering, ready to creep to bed,
murmuring against the doctor for not comines,
and forgetting all about Dally and her desire
to get that bottle which used to stand in
the corner cupboard.

VOL. in. - N

forelock's medicine.

*sit's like a shadow following me always,"
muttered North, "and it is hopeless for me
to try longer. I've fought and battled with
it as bravely as a man could fight, and for
what ? I have failed ; there is nothing to
keep me here. Why should I stay ? "

Yes'' he repeated, *'I have failed — failed
in my daring attempt — failed in my love —
and I want rest. I can bear it no longer ;
what I want is rest. Ah ! "

He drew a long breath and then sighed,
and went straight to the window, drew aside
the curtain, and for the first time for many-days
spent about half-an-hour at his toilet,
to stand at last, weak and ghastly pale, but

looking, otherwise, more like the frank, manly
young doctor of the past.

By this time his eyes had grown more
accustomed to the light, and he went and
stood gazing out of the window at the
pleasant woodland landscape spread before
him, thinking of his future, and ignorant of
the fact that the sierht was soothing to his
troubled brain.

It seemed to him that his shadow slept,
and turning from the window, after a final
look across the meadows, where now and
again he could see the sun glancing from
the stream in the direction of the Rectory,
he walked, with a fair amount of steadiness,
across the floor, just as the figure of a
woman appeared in the lower meadow walking
hurriedly and keeping close to the hedges
and clumps of trees, which gave the place the
aspect of a park.

As North opened the door and made for
the stairs he could see that the baize door at
the foot, which cut off communication with
the rest of the house, was ajar, and then it
moved slightly and closed.

N 2

'watched," lie said to himself; 'poor
old Milt ! I must not forget her."

He went slowly down into the hall, and
as he reached it the dining-room doors
which was also ajar, closed softly, and
North knit his brow and bit his lip as he
turned his back to it and entered the study.

He closed and locked the door after him. ;
and, as he did so, the housekeeper's face
appeared at the baize door, and Cousin
Thompson's at that of the dining-room.

Mrs. Milt noticed the movement of the
dining-room door, and stole softly back
with a sigh, while, after waiting for a few
minutes, with a peculiarly low cunning expression
of countenance, Cousin Thompson
took a little brass wedge from his pocket,
and stuck it beneath the door, so as to hold
it a few inches open, sufficiently to enable
him to hear when the study was opened
again, and then seated himself watchfully
by the window, where he could command a
good view of the principal gate.

As soon as he was in the study, North
looked sadly round at his books and tables,

where everything was methodically arranged,
and scrupulously neat and clean, the old
housekeeper's hand being visible on every
side.

'•' Poor old woman ! " muttered the doctor.
'' As if she felt sure that I should not be ill
long."

He walked to the French window, which
looked out upon the green lawn with its
shrubbery surroundings, beyond which were
the meadows and the purling stream.

It was a scene of peace and beauty that
should have been welcome to the most
exacting, and it was not without its effect
upon the doctor, who carefully closed and
fastened the window before crossing to the
door leading into his surgery, which he
opened, and looked in to see that the outer
door was closed.

Returning to the study table, the baize
communication swung to, and North sat
down, quite calm and collected now, and
becran to write.

He paused to think several times, but
only to go on more earnestly, till he had

done, when he read that which he had
written, made a slight alteration or two, and
then carefully folded and placed the papers
in large envelopes, one of which he directed,
*' To my executors," and laid in a prominent
place upon the table, where it could not fail
to be seen ; the other to his London medical
friend.

Apparently not satisfied, he took up the
envelope, and placed it in another, after which
he wrote upon a sheet of paper :

*mrs. Milt. Place this enclosure in my
executors' hands yourself."

Then directing the outer envelope to the
housekeeper, he smiled with satisfaction,
and had just laid it upon the table, duly
fastened down, when a faint chink made him
turn his head in the direction of the surgery.

North listened, and the faint sound of a
bottle touching another was repeated.

He rose and went softly to the door,,
which was not latched, opened it, and saw
a hand dart down that was extended, as he
stood face to face with Dally Watlock.

In his surprise North did not speak, for

he had been under the impression that he had
fastened the door, and this gave the girl time
to recover herself.

'' Oh, I beg your pardon, sir," she said,
with a smile ; " I only pushed that bottle
back in its place. It was nearly off the shelf."

'what do you want?" said North
sharply.

'•' Granada, please sir, said I was to come on
and tell you he wanted you."

'•' Tell him I can't come," said North
shortly. " Why did you come here, and not
to the front?"

'•' Oh, wasn't this right, sir ? " said Dally
apologetically. ''I am so sorry, sir. But
granada said : ' Go to Dr. North's surgery,'
and I came here. Please, sir, he says you're to
send him some of that same stuff you gave
him before."

North stood with his brows knit for a
moment, and then went to a cupboard, took
out a bottle of brandy, half full, and handed it
to the girl.

"Take that," he said, 'rand tell him to use
it discreetly. I cannot come."

"Oh, thank you, sir. Granada '11 be so
pleased, sir ; and master '11 be so glad when
I tell him you're so much better ; and Miss
Mary, too."

North winced, and then frowned, as he
passed the girl to open the outer door, and
reign her to go.

She smiled and curtsied as she passed
out, the door being closed sharply behind her,
and she heard a bolt shoot.

"Yes," she muttered, with her countenance
changing as she thrust the bottle carefully
into her dress-pocket, with the result that
there was another faint chink ; " you may
lock it now. I don't care. But wasn't it near ? "

She hesitated for a moment, as if about to
go out by the front, but Cousin Thompson
was not puzzled by seeing her pass, for
she returned by the way she came, down
the kitchen garden to the meadows, and
through them and down by the river till
she reached the nearest point to the Rectory
garden, through which she passed, after
stopping to pick a handful of parsley to
carry into the house.

BESIEGED.

Dally had not reached the Rectory, aod
Horace North had not sat long thinking
over the girl's words in a way which puzzled
him. as it brought a curious feeling of rest
and satisfaction to his brain, before a carriage
came sharply along the King's Hampton
road, and passed Forelock's cottage
and Mrs. Berens' pretty villa-like home.

North was seated, with his head resting
upon his hand, thinking.

!Miss Mary would be so pleased, the girl
had said — pleased that he was better.

It seemed strange to him, but the words
set him picturing Mary Salis in the old days
at the Rectory ; then her accident, and how
he had tended her. Then he thought of the

sweet, pale, patient face, as she passed
through that long time of bodily sufferings
to be followed by the lasting period of what
must have been terrible mental anguish as
she found herself to be a hopeless, helpless
invalid — changed, as it were by one sad blow,
from a young and active girl to a dependent
cripple.

Poor, gentle, patient Mary ! " he said
softly ; and then, like a flash, his mind
turned to the sister — her sick couch, her
delirious declaration of her love, and his-weak,
blind folly in not grasping the fact
that the tenderness she lavished upon him
was meant for another.

No, you can't. Master s better, and he's
engaged, and can't see patients."

North started up on his seat, rigid, and
with a wild look in his eyes, as he heard
these loudly uttered words, and then sprang
to the door.

'now, my dear Mrs. Milt," said a soft,
unctuous voice, which he knew only too well,
'' pray do not be excited. How can you speak
like that ? "

I speak what I think and feel, sir," retorted
the old lady sharply. '' What do these
people want with master ? "

'•' To ask him to go and attend upon a
patient who is in a dying state. There : pray
come away. Really, Mrs. Milt, you must not
interfere like this."

*' I tell you, sir, master don't want to see
patients, and he can't come out ; so you must
send them away."

'' Really, Mrs. Milt," said Cousin Thompson,
" this is insufferable. My good woman,
you forget yourself'

Every word reached North as he stood
close to the door and realised that there was
one woman ready to fight in his defence.

North stood there, with his hands clenched
and his brow rugged, glaring angrily, for he
well knew what this meant. The voices were
heard retiring, and the sound of the diningroom
door closing, and muffling them suddenly,
told him as plainly as if he had seen
that the housekeeper had followed Cousin
Thompson into that room, where an angry
altercation seemed to be in progress.

'' Hah ! " ejaculated the miserable man ;
^' canting and unscrupulous to the end. He
is keeping her in parley while his people do
their work."

He laughed bitterly, for at that moment
the door was tried softly, and then there was
a gentle tapping on the panel.

"May my money prove a curse to him,
and the whole place constantly remind him
of his treachery," he muttered, as the soft
tapping was repeated, and a low voice, which
he did not recognise, said :

Dr. North— Dr. North ! Can I speak to
you a minute ? "

He made"' no answer, but drew back to the
table.

Will they dare to break in ? " he said to
himself, as his face wore a look of bitter scorn
and contempt.

Just then Mrs. Milt's voice could be heard
raised loudly in protest ; but it was in vain.
cousin Thompson, under the pretext of holding
a parley, had entrapped her in the diningroom,
and then interposed his person whenever
she attempted to leave by door or window.

The tapping at the door ceased, and there
was a sound of whispering ; whilst a minute
after a stoutly-built, rather hard-faced man,
with a determined look, suddenly appeared
at the French window looking on the
garden, and tried the handle.

It was fast on the inside.

He passed on and went round to the
surgery door, which he tried, too ; but
North had fastened this when he let Dally
out, and the man came back, looked in and
tapped gently on the pane to take North's
attention. Then seeing that he did not stir
from where he stood at the table, the man
smiled and beckoned to him.

This he repeated again and again, but
North did not stir. Then his lips moved,
and he involuntarily repeated Hamlet's
words :

I am but mad north-north-west. When
the wind is southerly, I know a hawk from a
hernshaw."

The man nodded and smiled again, and
passed away.

There was another low murmuring outside

the door, and a fresh tapping, as a persuasive
voice said :

"Dr. North, will you be kind enough
to open the door, and come into the diningroom
? Mrs. Milt, the housekeeper, would
like to speak to you."

What a child — what a weak lunatic they
must think me ! " muttered North ; but he did
not move, and, as he fully expected, the last
speaker, as he supposed, went round to the
window and tapped softly.

The fresh comer might have been twin
brother of the first, so similar was his
expression, so exactly a repetition were his
acts.

They were of as much avail, and he returned
to the hall, when a few words were
exchanged in a low tone of voice, followed by
a sharp tapping at the dining-room door.

This was opened, and Mrs. Milt's voice
rose loudly :

Stop me if you dare, any of you ! and I'll
have the law of you."

This was followed by a sharp, rustling

noise, and the dull thud made by the banging
of the baize door.

Then there was the sound of the gravel
as some one walked over it hurriedly, and
the clicking of the swing-gate before it
caught.

Give the word, sir, and it's done," said a
deep voice.

'* Quick, then ! " said Cousin Thompson
sharply. " Quick, before that cursed woman
returns with help'*

ONE WAY OF ESCAPE.

North drew a deep breath as one of the men
stationed himself at the study window and
looked in.

He strode towards him, and the man smiled
and beckoned to him to come out ; but the
smile became a scowl as the cord was seized
and the blind drawn down.

Just then the door cracked as some one
pressed it hard, and then a whispering penetrated
to where North stood looking round
before crossing to the surgery, entering, and
locking himself in.

His first act was to go to the window,
where he expected to find that there was
another sentry ; but window and outer door

faced in another direction, and were shut off
from the part of the garden where the man
stood by a dense patch of ancient shrubbery
and a tall yew hedge.

North felt perfectly calm now, but his soul
was full of a terrible despair.

He told himself that for him hope was
dead ; that in dealing with the occult secrets
of Nature he had nearly mastered that which
he wished to discover, but had failed, and
must pay the penalty ; while in the future
some more fortunate student would profit by
that which he had done : and, avoiding the
pitfall into which he had fallen, take another
turning and triumph.

To this end in the hours of his misery —
when it had seemed to him that the strange
essence which pervaded him slept — he had
committed to paper the whole history of his
experiments, from the first start to the time
when he had awakened to the fact that he
could no longer arrest the decomposition of
the important organs, or do more than make
a kind of mummy of his subject; but the
essence or spirit was, as it were, taken

VOL. III.

captive, and at the same time held him in
thrall.

This, to the most extreme point, he had
carefully written out, showing, in addition,
the time when he felt that he must have
ozone wrong;, as that where a different course
must be pursued by the daring scientist
who would venture so much in the great
cause.

For he wrote clearly and impressively :
failure meant such a fate as his, the constant
presence of the spirit of the person who
had died, and with it the being compelled to
suffer for every wild act or speech this essence
would do or make. He told how helpless he
was, how he had striven to bring scientific
knowledge to bear, fought with his position
as a man should who was in the full possession
of his faculties, but that he could do no
more.

Success meant a crown of triumphant
honour ; failure, a kind of sane madness,
whose only end could be death — a death he
was compelled to seek to save himself at once
• — to save himself from being treated as a

maniac, and then to spend a few weeks or
months of torture which he knew he could not
bear.

In his Last paragraphs he pointed out his
position. He was believed to be mad, and
to clear himself he would have to explain his
experiment and his abnormal position, which
he owned that no one would or could be
expected to believe, save such a savant as the
one he addressed — a man who had made the
brain his study, and who could feel for the
suffering's of the writer.

o

This letter was enclosed in the packet
addressed to his executors for delivery to
Mr. Delton, and lay in the study, waiting
till those executors should receive the last
commands.

All was at an end now, and with a feeling
of calmness approaching to content, Horace
North looked round his surgery with its
many familiar objects ; and without the
slightest feeling of dread took down a small
medicine glass from the set standing all
ready upon a shelf, and then lifted a large
bottle from one particular spot at the endo

2

where it always stood, veiling a little recess
wherein were a couple of smaller bottles,
carefully labelled and marked as to their
degree of strength.

"Is it cowardly ? " he said quietly. " Is
it a sin ? Surely not, when I know my
position, and — yes, that is my fate."

For at that moment there was a sharp
crack : the door had yielded, and he knew
that his cousin's emissaries — the people from
some private asylum — had forced their way
into the study, and their next step would
be to make their way to where he was.

He could have opened the door, and fled
by way of the meadows ; but where ? To
whom ? Perhaps at the moment when he
made his first appeal for help, the living
shadow that he had, as it were, taken to him,
would utter some wild cry or absurd jest,
and people would believe his pursuers in
spite of all that he could declare.

No, it was not cowardice, this hastening
of his end ; and, withdrawing the stopper, he
began pouring out the liquid contents of the
little bottle, as the handle of the surgery door

was turned, and the panel gave an ominous
crack.

'• You shall let me pass away in peace," he
said quietly, as he drew away a chair which
propped back an inner door of baize, let it
swing to, and thrust in both its bolts.

'•' Cousin Thompson"' he said bitterly,
'' you were always a miserable wretch, but I
withdraw my curse. Take all, and enjoy
your wretched life as well as such a reptile
can"'

He paused for a few moments, with his
lips moving slowly, and a calm look of
resignation softening the harsh austerities of
his face.

To forgiveness ! " he said softly. *' To
oblivion ! " and he raised the glass to his

lips.

VISION OR Real.

The shivering of glass as the fragments of a
pane fell tinkling upon the carpet.

The shivering of glass as the little crystal
fell from Horace North's hand, and a pungent
odour filled the room.

Mary Salis ! or am I mad indeed ? "
ejaculated the wretched man.

He stood motionless, staring at the
window as a white arm was forced through
the broken glass, and the catch thrust back,,
but not so quickly but that a deep red stain
had time to show ; for the jagged glass made
an ugly gash above the white wrist, though
it was unheeded, and the casement was flung
open.

'* The door — open that door ! "

North did not stir, but stood gazing wildly
at the pallid face before him, and then he
passed his hands across his eyes and tottered
to the window, as if drawn there by the eyes
which gazed into his.

Quick ! the door — open this door ! " was
panted forth.

He obeyed mechanically without taking
his eyes from the window, feeling his way to
the door, and slowly opening it, to stand
gazing at Mary Sails, as she caught his hands
in hers.

'what were you going to do ? " she cried
piteously. 'you, too, of all men! You
must be mad — you must be mad ! "

"Yes," he said vacantly; 'they say so.
I must be mad, or is — is it past — a dream ?
Mary Sails — you ! "

'•'What's that?" cried Mary excitedly, as
the sound of the breaking door was heard.

North uttered a sigh.

They are coming," he cried, " and I
shall be too late. Loose my arm — loose my
arm ! "

No, no, no ! " panted Mary, as she flung
herself upon his breast. " It is what I feared ;
I believed it, and I came. Oh, for pity's sake,
don't do that ! "

"Yes: I must. You do not know," he
whispered hoarsely, as he tried to unlace her
arms from about him.

"Yes, I know that you were about to
commit self-murder, and you shall not do
this thing," cried Mary wildly.

Would you see me dragged away to a
living death ? " he said. *' Listen — do you
not hear ? Loose me, I say ! "

He spoke almost savagely now, as he
struggled to get the enhancing hands away;
but, as he tore at them, Mary clung the
closer, drawing herself more tightly to his
breast as her face approached his, and her
lips parted, her eyes dilated, and she cried as
wildly :

'' Then kill me too ! "

He ceased struggling to look at the
flushed, love-illumined face that approached
his, unable to grasp the whole meaning of
what was said, mentally incapable of interpreting

the words and looks, the whole
scene being like the phantasm of some
delirious fit.

A louder crack of the baize door aroused
him, and he started away.

Don't you hear ? " he whispered. " Don't
you hear ? "

'•' Yes," cried Mary, still clinging to him ;
I hear, and it is help."

"No, no!" he whispered; "it is those
men. Ah, 1 am too late ! "

For at that moment there was a sharp
rustling of the bushes, and a man ran up over
the lawn, to pause bewildered at the scene
before him.

'•'You, miss — here?" he panted breathlessly.
" Old Missus Milt said as the marcus
folk was taking the doctor away."

•' What ? " cried Mary ; and a mist floated
before her eyes.

The marcus folk, miss ; and they've got
a carriage round the front."

With a strength that was almost superhuman,
Mary recovered herself, and grasping
the situation, she whispered to North :

"Is this true ?"

"Listen," he said.

Mary clung to him tightly as the sounds
of the doors being forced bore unanswerable
witness to the words ; and then, as if to
shield him from the threatened danger, she
thrust him from her and followed across the
surgery.

No, no ! " she panted. " Quick, before it
is too late."

"Go ? " he said, in answer to her frenzied
appeal.

Yes, yes ; quick — quick ! The garden
the meadows."

North seemed dazed, but Joe Chegg, who
had run excitedly to the Manor after meeting
the old housekeeper, more with the idea
of seeing what was going on than affording
help, now caught North's arm and hurried
bim out of the surgery and down the
nearest path, then in and out among the
dense shrubs, so that they were well out of
sight before the door yielded, and Cousin
Thompson's emissaries found their prey had
gone.

North made no opposition to the efforts
of those who held him on either side ; but,
weak with long fasting, and now utterly
dazed, he staororered from time to time, and
would have fallen but for the sustaining
arms.

'•' Rectory, miss ? All right," said Joe
Chegg. " Hold up, sir, or you'll be down."

For North had made a lurch, and clung
wildly to the sturdy young fellow.

Oh, try — pray try ! " moaned Mary, as
she gazed back. " Now ; I'll help all I can."

I'll manage him," said Joe, who took
the appeal to himself. " You let him lean
on me. Why, I thought, miss, as how you
couldn't walk."

Hush ! don't speak. They may hear
us," whispered Mary, gazing fearfully back
as they pressed on through the meadows with
the bottom of the Rectory garden still a
couple of hundred yards away, when, as
Mary glanced side wise at North, she saw
his eyes close, and at the same moment his
legs gave pray, and he sank towards the
grass.

Mary uttered a piteous groan and gazed at
Chegg, who had loosened his hold on North's
arm, and now stood with hat raised, scratching
his head.

*snow, if some one else was here," he
muttered ; and then, in answer to an unspoken
question, he cried aloud : " Well, I
d'know, miss ; but, anyhow, I'll try."

A life of toil had made the young fellow's
muscles pretty tough, or else he could not
have risen so sturdily after kneeling down,
and, contriving to get North upon his
shoulder, to start off once more, with Mary
urging him to use every exertion, for a shout
from behind had thrilled her, and on looking
back it was to see two men coming along
the meadow at a quick trot, while a third
was walking swiftly behind.

A RACE FOR LIBERTY.

It was a close race, and Mary Salis felt that,
ere many minutes had passed, the strange
force which had nerved her so that she had
traversed the distance between the two houses,
and then enabled her to go through the
scene which followed, would fail ; but still
she struggled on, with their pursuers gaining
so rapidly that the gate which gave upon
the meadows had hardly been passed and
dashed to, and the feeling that at last they
were in comparative safety, given her fresh
strength, when the two keepers came up,
and without hesitation threw open the gate,
and followed into the Eectory orchard.

Joe Cheof2f had lowered his burden on to
the ground as the men reached the gate.

'^ That'll I do, miss?"

'' Stand by me," panted Mary, stooping
to catch Horace's hand in hers ; and then,
sinking on one knee, she held to it tightly
with both her own.

Stand by you, miss ? " cried Joe.
'eyes; I'll do that; but you run and call
for help."

No, no," cried Mary ; " I will not go."

Now, then," cried Joe, " what is it ?
You know you're a-trespassing here ? "

You get out," growled one of the men ;
and he thrust the sturdy young fellow roughly
aside.

It was a mistake on the keeper's part,
for Joe Chegg's father was a Milton man,
notorious in his time for the pugnacity of
his life.

His mantle, or rather his disposition to
take off his coat, had fallen upon his son,
and the result of the rude thrust was that
Joe Chegg rebounded so violently that the
keeper went staggering back, and by the

time he recovered, and his companion was
about to join in the attack, Joe had proved
himself to be the son of his father, for his
coat was lying on the ground.

This was awkward. The keepers were
accustomed to tussle with insane patients,
and they were ready for a fight with Horace
North, and to do anything to force him into
the carriage waiting at the Manor House.
But Joe Chegg was sane, sturdy, and had
begun to square.

A fight with the stout young "Warwick
man was not in their instructions, and they
called a parley.

Look here, miss," said the one who had
been struck surlily; "just call your bulldog
off". We don't want no trouble, and
you're doing a very foolish thing ; so let us
do our booty and go."

As he spoke he advanced, but a feint from
Joe made him flinch, though he gave the
young fellow a very ugly look.

This is an outrage," cried Mary, rising
and speaking now firmly. " What does it
mean i

It means, madam," said a voice, as the
tall, dark medical man who had visited twice
at the Manor now came upon the scene, after
a very hurried walk through the meadows —
it means, madam," he repeated, for he was
breathless, " that Dr. North is not in a fit
condition to be at large."

"It is not true ! " cried Mary indignantly ;
though the recollection of what she had witnessed
made her quail.

It is quite true, madam ; and his nearest
friends have taken steps to have him placed
under proper treatment, where he can be
restored to health."

'' Where what little reason left to him
will be wrecked," something seemed to say
within Mary ; and she held on more tightly
to North's hand.

"There, madam," said the doctor; "I
have explained this to you, but I will also
add, so that there may be no further un-pleasantry,
that all these steps have been
taken after proper advice, and in strict legal
manner. Now, be kind enough to let my
men assist the patient to rise, and let us get

this sad matter settled as quickly as we
can."

Mary wavered, and the doctor saw it.

"Jones," he said, "you go and get the
carriage round here. It weill be much the

o

shortest way."

''Dr. North is a very old and dear
friend of ours," said Mary, recovering herself,
and speaking with dignity; "and I
cannot stand by, in my brother's absence,
and see what seems to me to be an outrage
committed."

"Ah, your brother is away," said the
doctor. " It is a pity, for gentlemen are
better to deal with than ladies in a case like
this. There, my dear madam, pray accept
my assurances that everything is right, and
that Dr. North will be taken the greatest
care of, and restored to you soon perfectly
sane and well. Pray be good enough to
stand aside."

*'No," cried Mary firmly ; "he shall not

go."

Just say the word, miss," whispered Joe

Chegg.

VOL. III.

"Jones!" shouted the doctor; 'come
back ! "

The second keeper, who was nearly
through the orchard, came back, and it was
a case of three to one ; but Joe Chegg was not
intimidated.

*' Look here," he said. " Miss Salis says
he isn't to go, and you're trespassing here.
Hi ! you Dally Watlock ! " he shouted, ashe
caught sight of the little maid coming
down the orchard ; " you let loose that there
dog."

Dally hesitated while, in response to a
word from the doctor, the keepers advanced ;
and they would have succeeded in their task
Joe Chegg's brave efforts being doomed to
failure by the baffling movements of the well-dressed
doctor, whom he hesitated to strike —
but succour arrived in the person of Salis, who
came running down the orchard, red-faced and
excited.

The odds were so reduced that a fresh
parley ensued, the doctor giving his explanations
now once more in answer to the indignant
questions of Salis :

"How dare you insult my sister?" followed
by another, " How dare you insult my
friend ( "

"Law or no law, sir," cried Sails, at last,
Dr. North is on my premises, where, so to
speak, he has taken sanctuary. You are
acting at the wish of Mr. Thompson ? "

The doctor bowed.

'then fetch Mr. Thompson here."

'•' Really, sir " began the doctor.

"That will do, sir," cried Salis. "You
have heard my decision. If the law forces
me to give up my friend, I may be compelled :
but I will not give him up to you and these
men now. Chegg, see these persons off the
Eectory grounds."

There was no help for it. A struggle
would have resulted in the raising of the
village, and, shrucfS^^incj his shoulders, the

O ' ' CO o '

doctor beat an ignominious retreat with his
men.

'•' Mary ! " exclaimed Salis, now for the first
time realising the miracle that seemed to have
occurred ; "is this you ? "

The poor girl did not speak, but stood

p 2

gazing at him with her eyes growing dim,
while before he could catch her she sank,
first upon her knees, and then forward with
her head upon North's breast, while her
soft, fair hair escaped from the bands which
held it, and fell loosely about her marble
face.

CLEANING A ROOM.

Earlier on that clay Dally sat in her bedroom
watching from the window, as she
had often watched before when it was
night.

Her little, rosy face was a study, and her
dark eyes glistened like those of an eager
rat.

She had well calculated her time, and
before honos saw Leo come out, book in
hand, for her customary walk up and down
the garden.

Dally wasted no time, but hurried to
Mary's room to listen for a few moments,
and then steal into Leo's, where she peered in
for a moment, and then hurried out to return

with a dustpan and brush and a duster. These
she placed upon chair and floor to cover her
appearance should Leo return ; while, after a
rummage in her pocket, she brought out a
little key.

Before using this she darted to the
window, and waited till she could see Leo
going from the house, when, with rat-like
action, she made for a chest of drawers, upon
which stood a desk, opened it with the
speed of one accustomed to the task, and
lifting one side, thrust in her hand, to
draw out a packet of letters tied with a
ribbon.

The top one bore a postmark only two
days old, and this the girl drew out, skimmed
over as rapidly as her illiterate brain would
allow, and as she read her countenance
changed assail and asjain.

Ah ! " she ejaculated, at last. " You
would, would you ? " and taking up a pencil
from the tray, and a new envelope, she
laboriously copied out what seemed to be an
address.

Then, with a smile of triumph, she

hurriedly refolded the letter and replaced it
in the packet, thrust the newly addressed
envelope in her bosom, re-locked the desk,
and had hardly destroyed all signs of her
action, when she heard a slight couojh.

Dally ran more rat-like than ever to the
place where the dustpan and brush lay,
plumped down on her knees, and began to
work with her back to the door, humming
away in a low tone as busily as could be
amouQ^st the dust she raised.

Dally ! '"' cried Leo, opening the door.

Yes, miss."

'* Oh, what a dreadful dust ! You know
I don't like this unnecessary sweeping going
on.

But it wanted doing so badly, miss, and
you were gone out in the garden."

"Yes, yes; but leave off, that's a good
girl, now. I want to sit down and read."

Yes, miss," said Dally, hurriedly using
the duster.

*' Do you know where my brother has

one ?

No, miss ; don't you ? "

No," said Leo wearily.

Oh, yes, I do, miss ; he went to the
Manor House, and then he come back to Miss
Mary, and I think now he's gone to King's
Hampton."

Oh," said Leo wearily. " That will do ;
and don't come to tidy up my room again
without asking leave."

No, miss," said Dally, retreating and
going back to her own room, where she
threw her housemaid's utensils on the bed,
and took out and read the address on the
envelope, "Teapot's Hotel, Craven Street,
Strand."

*' Don't you be afraid, miss," she muttered,
I won't tidy up your room again. Oh, what
treachery there is in this world ! But wait,
my dear, and you shall see ! "

She replaced the envelope, and stood
thinking for a few moments before coming
to a decision, and then —

I haven't been there dozens of time for
granada for nothing," she said, half aloud.
I know, and I will.

'but suppose

*' He wouldn't," she said, after a pause.
They say he never comes out of his room
except at night — I will."

Five minutes after she was oroiDor down
the garden ostensibly to pick that bunch
of parsley, and to obtain it she went to the
very bottom of the kitchen garden, and
thence into the meadows, through which
she almost ran till she reached the bottom
of the Manor House grounds, and then,
knowing the place as she had from childhood,
she easily made her way, unseen, to the
surgery, to be found by North.

Dally returned triumphantly, but she did
not take the brandy to her grandfather, but
deposited it in her box in the bedroom
before going about her work as calmly as if
she had nothing more important in her
mind than dusters and brooms, and the keeping
tidy of the portions of the Rectory
within her province.

But nothing missed her piercing little
eyes, which seemed to glitter as the various
matters occurred, and in the intervals she
packed a few necessaries in a large reticule

I)a2f, which she hung: over the iron knob of
her bedstead in company with her jacket and
hat.

No servant could have been more attentive,
or apparently innocent-looking as she
stared at Joe Chegg, who, after helping
Salis to bear North into the drawing-room,
was relegated to the kitchen to be refreshed.

Joe stared hard at her with an indignant
frown, as he slowly ground up masses of
bread and cheese, and washed them down
with copious draughts of ale.

But Joe's frowns had no effect upon Dally,
and her aspect was simplicity itself, as, after
a time, he took to shaking his bead at her
solemnly, following up each shake of the
head with a sigh, and then apparently easing
his sufferings by an angry bite at the
bread.

Each time Joe looked and frowned, Dally
replied with a simple, innocent maiden's
round eyed, wondering gaze, which seemed
to ask why he did not speak and say what
he had to say.

But Joe Chegg said nothing, only ate,

and frowned, and shook his head till he
had done ; and after a time Dally, having
nothing else to do, thrust a little plump
hand right down a black stocking till her
knuckles represented the heel which had been
peering through a large hole, and then and
there she beo*an to make worsted trellis-work
which looked to Joe Chegg very similar
to what he had often done in wood.

The drawling-room bell rang, but before
Dally could answer it, Salis appeared at
the door.

Don't go away, Chegg, my lad"' he said.
I don't know what visitors may come, and
I should like you to hang about the place
and watch."

*' Well, you see, sir," said Joe sturdily,
there's a man's time."

'•' Oh, yes," said Salis, smiling ; " you
shall be paid double time."

For how looser ? "

Wait and see ; and keep a good lookout
about the premises."

He said these words as he was leaving
the kitchen door, and met Leo in the hall,

directly after, with her handsome eyes looking
at him inquiringly.

It was observable, too, in the kitchen
that Daily's countenance looked a little more
intent and she bent a little more over her
stocking, and began to hum as she darned,
while Joe Chegg took up the ale mug, and,
after looking into it meditatively, began to
work the table-spoonful left at the bottom
round and round as if he were preparing
an experiment whose aim was to keep one
little blot of froth right in the centre like
a tiny island of foam in a small sea of beer.

Yes ; I'll watch," he said to the mug ;
and it won't be the first time. It ain't
much goes on as I don't see."

Dally hummed and ceased to look catlike
in her quiescence, for her aspect was
kittenish now, and her hum deepened every
now and then into a purr.

Strange things goes on in this here
village," continued Joe, gazing into the mug ;
*•' and I sees a deal of what young ladies and
persons does."

Daily's purr would now have done credit

to a Persian puss : it was so soft and pleasant
and round.

'' But of all the things as ever I've see o'
young ladies, I never see aught as called
the way as Miss Mary's got strong and
well."

Dally hummed now, and her tones were
those of a musical bee, while the trellis-work
in the stocking grew and grew.

Well," said Joe, after getting the drop
of froth to stand very high out of its beery
whirlpool, " I'm a-going' to play policeman
now."

He tossed the remainder of the beer into
his throat, and set down the mug.

'' There ain't many jobs as comes amiss
to me."

He rose and walked out of the kitchen,
and as Dally saw him from the windows on
his way round to the front, she gave her
stocking-covered fist a dab down on the table
and uttered an angry " Ugh ! "

Joe Chegg was not playing policeman
long before he ran to the front door and
knocked.

Mist— Salis, sir ! Mist— Salis. Here's
one on 'em."

Salis was with North, and did not hear,
so that when a keen old gentleman with
white hair alighted from a fly, it was to
find the door barred by the sturdy young
workman.

Is Dr. North here ? "

'what do you want with Dr. North?"
cried Joe surlily.

*' I am a medical man, my lad," said the
old gentleman, smiling. " I have come down
from London to see him."

Yes, I thought you had," said Joe ;
"and you can't see him, so you may just go
back, as the brothers have done before. Eh ?
Oh, I beg pardon, sir. I thought it was the
wrong sort."

For Salis, hearing the altercation, had
hurried out, and a brief explanation had
set all straight.

Poor fellow, poor fellow ! " said the
doctor, after following Salis into his room
and hearing an explanation of the case.
Overwrought, I suppose. Well, let's see
him."

They went to the darkened drawing-room
to pause at the door, the doctor making a
sign to Salis to stay while he watched the
patient, who was ignorant of his presence.

North was lying back on the sofa with his
eyes nearly closed, and Mary seated near,
holding: his hand, and bent towards him as
if listening to his breathing.

Suddenly he started — crying out wildly as
his e3'es opened with a dilated stare ; but ashe
tried to rise, Mary's soft white hand was
laid upon his forehead, and he sank back with
a sigh of restfulness ; his eyes closed again,
and he lay breathing calmly.

Salis looked at Mr. Delton, but the old
man did not stir. Here was the case developing
itself before him, and he could not study
it better than unobserved.

Salis was about to re-enter the room, when
Dally came and summoned him by pulling his
sleeve.

"What is it?" he said sharply, as he
turned.

'•' Mrs. Milt, to see you, sir."

Salis hesitated.

I will wait till you ret urn," whispered
the old doctor. " I am well employed."

Salis hurried to where the old housekeeper
was waiting.

^' I've just heard that master is here, sir,"
cried the old woman excitedly. *' Oh, I am
thankful ! I found these papers in the study,
sir ; they were in an envelope directed to me,
sir, and this one for the doctor master knows
in London."

Salis uttered a cry of joy.

Mr. Delton is with your master," he
said.

Mrs. Milt sighed.

Let me go to him, sir, please."

Salis signed to her to follow, and led the
way to where North lay now as if asleep,
with Mary's hand held to his brow.

The old housekeeper stood for a few
moments watching, and then drew back.

'' No, sir," she said ; " I won't disturb
him. I haven't seen him look like that for
weeks."

'' And I will not disturb him," said the
old doctor. '' Best like that must be good."

He followed Sails into the dining-room,
where he sat down to read the communication
North had written, and after studying
it carefully for some time, he looked up to
find the curate's eyes fixed upon him intently.


'^ Well ? "

'•' Well, Mr. Salis, I think I can say a
comforting word or two. By the way, I
thought I would come on straight to you
instead of callings first at the Manor House,
and it is as well I did."

But the letter, sir — the letter from my
poor friend ? "

Ah, yes, the letter," said the old doctor
dreamily. ''I have read and studied it
well."

And you think ? "

"A great deal, my dear sir — a great deal ;
but I have not finished yet. A clear case of
overtaxed brain. I should say that he had
worked himself Into a state of exhaustion,
and then some shock must have occurred to
destroy the tottering balance. Not a money
trouble, for I think Mr. North is well off.

VOL. III. O

Not a love trouble, for judging from what I
saw "

"You are mistaken in that, sir," said
Salis. "My poor friend suffered a grievous
shock a short time since."

'' Ah ! just as I expected. That is quite
sufficient to account for it all."

'but the future, sir ? For goodness' sake,
speak ! Your reticence tortures me."

I beg your pardon. I am thoughtful
and slow, Mr. Salis. Let me try and set
you at rest. As far as I can judge without
further study of the case, I should say that
you need be under very little uneasiness."

"You do not consider his case necessitates
his being placed in a private asylum ? "

I should say the people who placed him
in one deserved to be hanged. Well, no,"
he added, smiling; "not so bad as that, but
to be placed in a private asylum themselves."

Thank Grot ! " said Salis fervently, and
the tears stood in his eyes as he grasped the
old doctor's hands.

The evening was growing old as Mr.
Delton sat facing Salis in his study, nursing

bis knee, and calmly watching the curate
smoking his one per diem cigar.

Xo," said the old man, smiling ; " I
rarely smoke now ; but North was right ; it
is good for you. I don't mind a bit. Pray
go on''

So Salis smoked and sat talking with the
tea-things on the table.

Leo had begged to be excused. The excitement
had upset her, she said, and she
was in her room, where Dally had taken her
up some tea, and paused for some moments
on the landing, in the dark, to set the saucer
down upon the large window sill, and as she
bent over the tray a faint gurgling sound
was heard, and click as of grass against

CD O

glass.

The doctor had been in twice to see
North, who was sleeping heavily, with Mary
and the old housekeeper seated by him, the
lamp being shaded and placed where the light
could not trouble the patient ; and, after a
stormy day, all seemed to have settled down
to calm repose.

**My dear sir," said the doctor, ^4t is not

Q 2

the first time that Nature has performed a
miracle of this kind. Your sister's nervous
excitement did what we doctors were
unable to perform — triumphed over the
inert muscles. They obeyed ; the latent
force was set in action, and she rose from
her couch to go to her poor friend's help —
in time to save him from a very terrible
fate, whether that fate was the private
asylum, or that which he had evidently in
mind. Poor fellow ! I wish I had seen
him sooner. No ; it is better as it is, and
he will say so when we have him once more
himselfe

** Then you really do feel hopeful ? "

''My dear Mr. Salis," said the old manif
I am not wrong in my ideas, that sweet-faced
lady in the next room will slowly and
patiently repay our poor friend for unknowingly
restoring her to a life of activity. She
will bring him back to calm reason."

You think this ? " said Salis hoarsely.

Indeed I do. His long and lucid statement
to me shows that in every point
but one he was as sane as you or I. He

had one little crotchet, due to the overstrain,
and that will, I feel sure, with a little help,
soon disappear. Mr. Salis, take my word
for it, you may be perfectly at rest."

Good heavens ! " cried Salis, springing
to his feet, for at that moment a wild shriek
resounded through the house, followed by a
heavy fall in the room above.

MISSING THE MAIL TRAIN.

Ten o'clock had just struck, and the old
tower was still vibrating, when Dally Matlock's
bedroom door was softly opened, and
the little lady, clad in her tightly-fitting
jacket and natty hat, came softly out, to stand
upon the landing listening.

The lamp was burning on the hall table,
and it sent up a faint yellow glow which
shone strangely upon the girl's face, as she
stood listening to the murmur of voices
proceeding from the curate's study, and she
could just make out a faint line of light
coming from beneath the drawing-room
door.

Dally went slowly and softly across the

landing till she reached Leo's door, where
she paused to listen ; but all was perfectly
still, and stealing one o-loved hand to the
latch, she tried the door cautiously, but it did
not yield, and though she tapped twice there
was no response.

Dally drew her breath softly between her
teeth, and uttered a low, vicious little laugh.

'•'Good night, dear," she said softly; *' it'll
be ten o'clock tomorrow when you wake, and
then — we shall see ! "

One of the stairs crave a loud warning

o

creak as she stopped, bag in hand, holding on
by the balustrade, and ready, rat-like, to
dart back to her room should any one open
the study door.

But the murmur of voices still went on,
and Dally stole down the rest of the way to
reach the hall, creep softly to a swing-door,
and pass through into the neatly-kept kitchen,
where a fire still glowed and a kettle sang its
own particular song.

Dally closed the kitchen door after her,
darted across the broad patch of warm light
cast by the fire into the darkness of a scullery

beyond, and closed a door after her to stand
thinking.

"Craven Street, Strand," she muttered.
Ten miles to King s Hampton. Ten o'clock
to half-past one ; I can do it easy, and at ten
o'clock tomorrow morning, my dear, we
shall see ! "

She said these words with a vicious little
hiss, and the next minute two well-oiled bolts
were shot, the key was turned, the door
opened with a sharp crack, and then there
was a rustle as Dally passed through, closed
the door with a light click of the latch, and
stood in the semi-darkness of a soft starlight
night.

Drawing a long breath, as if to get a reserve
of force, the girl stepped quickly along
the path leading round to the front, passing
as soon as she could on to the closely-cut
lawn, and over it to the gate.

She had nearly reached it, bag in one hand
and umbrella in the other, when she turned
quickly round to see that she was not observed
by any one in the curate's study ; and as she

did so she plumped up against something hard
and yet soft.

'•' Oh ! " she involuntarily ejaculated, and
she started back, as that which she had
thumped against took a step forward, and
she found that she was face to face with Joe
Checrcr.

Where are you going ? " he said sourly.

Dally was too much startled for a moment
to speak. Then, recovering herself, she said
shortly :

'' What's that to you ? "

*•' Everything," replied Joe, in a low
grow], ''' Parson said I was to look out about
the place ; and I'm a-looking. Where are
you going ? "

Dally drew her breath with a hiss. It
was maddening to be stopped at a time like
this, when every minute was of importance ;
and the mail train was always punctual at
King's Hampton at half-past one.

Dryer hear ? " said Joe. " Well, if you
won't answer me, come on to parson, and
tell him."

''No, no, Joe Chegg ; don't stop me,
please," she said softly. " Granada's ill, and
I'm going to take him something."

At quarter after ten, eh ? No, yon ain't.
Old Forelock went to bed at half-past eight,
for I run down and looked in at his windy
'fore he drawer the blind. Yes, I run down
and see."

"What's that got to do with it ?" cried
Dally. *' How dare you stop me ? "

'' Parson said I was to look out."

Master didn't tell you to stop me, you
great stupid. Let me go by."

'nay, I shan't," said Joe. "You're off
on larks, and he ain't here now."

Who isn't here ? " cried Dally.

You know. He's gone to London,
where he'd better stop."

Daily's wrath hissed again, and she was
about to say something angrily, but she
dreaded a scene, and tried the other tack.

Now, don't be foolish, there's a dear,
good man," she said softly. '' I just want
to go a little way."

Wi' an umbrella and a bag, eh ? " said
Joe. ** Parson Sails don't know you're off
out, I know."

'•' What nonsense, Joe ! "

'' Don't you Joe me, ma'am ; my name's
Mr. Ch egg, and you wouldn't whisper and
carry and be civil if you weren't up to some
games."

'•' Oh, what a foolish man you are, Joe
Chegg ! "

'" Oh, I am, ain't I ? " said Joe. '' Always
going up to the Hall of a night, eh ? Gets
out o' my bedroom windy, and steals off to
meet squires in vestry rooms, I do, don't
I?"

Joe Chevron 1 "

oo

And carries on as no decent female would
wi' my missus's young man."

Joe Chegg ! Oh, please let me go by,"
whispered Dally. " I want to go somewhere
particular."

*' Then want'll be your master, for you're
not going without parson says you are to.
Come on and ask him."

Joe caught her by the wrist, but she
wrested it away, and nearly got through the
gate, but he was too quick for her.

That shows as you're up to no good,"
said Joe. " You wouldn't fight against seeing
your master if you weren't off on the sly at
half after ten."

Half-past ten ! " cried Dally. '' It
isn't."

At that moment the chimes ran out the
half-hour, and Dally drew her breath hard,
and made a desperate effort to pass ; but
this time Joe caught her round the waist
and held her, avoiding a scratched face
from the fact that the girl's hands were
loved.

How dare you ? " she panted, ready to
cry hysterically from vexation.

'^ I dare 'cause I'm told, and I don't believe
I did right in letting Miss Leo go."

- What ? "

Dally suddenly grew limp and ceased to
struggle.

I said I didn't think I did right in

letting Miss Leo go, but I didn't like to stop
her."

Miss Leo ? " panted Dally. " Ashen ? "

'hour and half ago."

'•' It's a story. She's fast asleep in
bed."

'•' Where you ought to be," said Joe*'
So back you go."

It's a story, I say," panted Dally.
'* Miss Leo hasn't been out of her room
to-night."

Miss Leo went out of this here gate
hour and half ago, just as I come back
from your grandfather's, and she ain't come
back."

"Oh!"

Dally uttered a low, hoarse cry, and
turning sharply round ran swiftly back to
the place from which she had come, closely
followed by Joe, in whose face the door was
closed and the bolt slipped.

In another minute Dally had reached the
landing, and was listening at Leo's door,
which she tried again.

o

All was still, and, her breath coming and
going as if she were suppressing hysterical
sobs, the girl ran into her bedroom, locked
the door, threw bag, umbrella, hat and jacket
on the bed, opened the window, crept outwith
wonderful activity, rolled down the
sloping roof, dropped to the ground, and
ran over the lawn to the summer-house.

Leo Salis had scaled that rustic edifice
many a time with great agility, but her skill
was poor in comparison with that of the
sexton's grandchild. In a few moments she
was on the roof, and reaching up to Leo's
window, the casement yielding to her touch.

She uttered a low sob of ras^e and doubt
now, as, without hesitation, she clambered
in to run to the bed, and pass her hands
over it.

Tenantless ; and the cup of tea, heavily
drugged with a solution of chloral, stood
where it had been placed, untouched, upon
the table.

Even then the girl was not convinced.
She would not believe in the ill success of

lier plans, and that the handsome woman
she despised was as keen of wit as herself.

She darted to the wardrobe.

Leo's jacket was gone !

To another part of the room.

The hat she wore was missing !

Then for a moment the girl stood as if
unbounded, as the thoughts crushed down
upon her that even if she started now, and
could get away, she would be too late to
catch the London mail. Worse still : Leo
must have caught the last up-train at twelve,
and long before she could reach the great
city, would have joined Tom Candlish at the
place he had named in the note Dally herself
had borne ; and, though she had planned
so well, her chances of being Lady Candlish
were for ever gone.

She ground her teeth together and panted
hoarsely, hardly able to breathe for the sobs
which struggled for utterance.

It isn't true. It's a trick ! " she cried at
last. " I won't believe it ! I'll go and be
there first, and then

Oh ! what shall I do— what shall I do ? "
she cried hoarsely ; and then, uttering a wild
and passionate shriek of misery and despair,
she threw herself heavily upon the floor, to
tear at the carpet, like some savage creature,,
with tooth and nail.

dally's hysterics.

Salis ran out into the hall, followed by the
doctor, to meet Mary and the housekeeper
from the other side.

North ? " gasped Salis ; he could say
no more.

*' Sleeping peacefully' said the housekeeper
; " what is the matter ? " For Mary
could not speak.

Leo must be ill," said Salis, rushing up
the stairs to his sister's room.

*•' Leo ! Leo ! " he cried, rattling the door-handle.


For answer there was a moaning, almost
inhuman, sound.

** Can you open the door ? " said the old

VOL. in. R

doctor, who had followed him. *' It must
be a fit."

'' Stand back," cried Salis ; and going to
the other side of the broad landing, he rushed
forward, literally hurling himself at the door,
which flew open with a crash.

The light carried by Mary streamed into
the room, and lit up the figure grovelling
upon the carpet.

In an instant Salis was down upon one
knee, and had raised her upon his arm.

'^ Dally 1" he cried wonderingly, as the girl
writhed and fought and moaned in his arms.

The doctor glanced at the hysterical girl.

'slight here," he said sternly; and as
Mary wonderingly bore forward the lamp
the old man lifted the tea-cup, upon which
his eyes had instantly lit, smelled, and then
cautiously tasted it.

He shook his head.

Is she poisoned ? " gasped Salis.

''No," said the old doctor promptly.
"The lamp a little nearer, please."

Mary held it towards him, and the old
man bent down over Dally and made a

rapid examination ; no easy task, for she was
throwing herself about wildly, and one hand
struck the lamp shade and tore it away.

'•' That will do," said the doctor in stern,
hard tones. '' Here : have you another
servant ? Get her to bed at once."

As he spoke he seized Daily's wrist, and
gave it a jerk.

"' Get up ! " he said harshly.
'what a shame!" murmured Mrs. Milt
indignantly.

Of this o'irl to make such a disturb
nee ? " said the old doctor, who had caught
her words. '' Yes, disgraceful, when there is
so much trouble. That's right ; get up.
Not your room, I suppose ? "

To the surprise of all, Dally had risen,
and stood with her hands clenched, looking
wildly from one to the other.

'can you walk to your room. Dally?"
said Mary.

The girl nodded sharply, then looked
around wildly, and the full force of her
trouble coming back, she burst into a passion
of tears.

R 2

But where is Leo ? " cried Salis. '* Where
is my sister ? "

He darted to the open window and looked
out.

Want me, sir ? " said a voice.

'' You there, Chess ? How's that ? "

"You felled me to watch, sir."

'^ Have you seen any one pass ? "

Only Miss Leo, sir," replied the man.

Salis turned from the window, looking as
if stunned.

Gone ! " he said wonderingly.

"Yes," cried Dally, mingling her words
with sobs of rage and spite. " She's gone off
with Tom Candlish."

And you — you wretch — you have helped
her," cried Salis, seizing the girl by the arm.

I didn't. It isn't true. I've done everything
to keep 'em apart ; but they've cheated
and deceived me," cried Dally. *' She's gone
up to London to meet him — and — and they've
gone there."

She tore an envelope from her pocket,
and Salis snatched it from her hand to read
the address in Craven Street.

'hartley," whispered Mary, clinging to
him now, " is it true ? "

"Yes," he said hoarsely, "it must be true.
Hush ! I must leave you now. Mr. Delton,
will you stay in the house, and watch over
my sister and my friend ? I must go away
at once."

'there's no train till tomorrow morning
at eight," sobbed Dally passionately; and she
stamped her feet like an angry child as her
hysterical fit began to return.

That will do ! " said the old doctor
sternly, as he grasped the girl's waist once
more, and she looked up at him in a startled
way, and then quailed and subsided into a fit
of sobbing.

Anything I can do, Mr. Salis, you may
depend on being done."

Salis nodded ; he could not speak for a
moment, but gazed full in his sister's eyes.

Did you suspect this ? " he whispered.

Oh, no. Hartley," she replied.

Xo ; you could not have suspected."

He drew a long breath, and seemed to be
making an eflbrt to check his agony of

spirit, and to be forcing himself to act
firmly.

Chegg," he cried from the window, '' go
round to the front door. I'll meet you
there. Mrs. Milt," he said, closing the
window, '' will you be good enough to see this
girl to her room ? Stay with her for the
present. Mary, poor North is alone," he
added ; "go down."

And you, Hartley ? "

I'll follow directly," he said ; and as soon
as the room was cleared, he turned to the old
doctor.

You tasted that tea," he said sharply.

Yes ; strongly flavoured with chloral,"
he said.

'' Chloral ? How could that have got
into the tea ? And the girl's fit ? Not
coil easy ? "

'' Hysteria. Rage and disappointment,"
said the old doctor. ''So it seems to me.
There is more beneath the surface than
appears. Mr. Sails, what can I do to help

you?"

'' Give me your prayers and ask me nothing,"
he replied sadly. '' There is more
beneath the surface, sir."

I will respect your silence," said the old
man, taking his hand. " You are Horace
North's friend, sir, and that is sufficient forme.
You are g'oino- to town ? "

Salis nodded.

My house is at your disposal," said the
doctor, and he handed Salis his card.

At five o'clock, after due arrangements had
been made, Joe Chegg was at the door with
a chaise, ready to drive Salis over to the
station at King's Hampton ; but, long before
that, Dally had begged Mrs. Milt to 'fetch
Miss Mary," to whom the half-wild, sobbing-girl
had made a clean breast of all she knew,
and this had been communicated to the
curate.

I need not fear leaving North — I mean
on my sister's behalf ? " said Salis, as he stood
by the chaise,

Trust to me, my dear sir, and go without
fear."

Sails climbed into the chaise, and, with
his head bent, was driven off through the
chilly morning air in search of the fugitive
who had nine hours' start ; and as he recalled
this he muttered :

I am too late ! "

OUT OF THE SHADOW.

Hartley Salts found that his words were
correct.

He was too late !

He learned that '^a gentleman," as the
people at the hotel called him, had been
staying at the hotel, that a lady, evidently
Leo, had come in by the early train, and that
they had gone.

*' Heaven only knows where, Mary, dear,"
said Salis a week later, as he lay upon the
couch, utterly worn out with his efforts to
trace the fugitives. " I am broken down.
Thank God, dear, I am once more at home.
And you ? "

My dearest brother," she said tenderly,

as she knelt beside him and laid her hand
upon his burning brow.

''Ah, that's cool and pleasant," he sighed,
with his eyes closed. " Tell me about North
more than your letters said."

He is better — much better," said Mary,
with an eagerness she made no attempt to
conceal.

'' Yes," said Salis wearily ; " so Mr. Delton
said."

'• Yes ; so Mr. Delton said, and he also
said, my dear sir, that you too must have
rest ; your sister, recovering from her own
illness, cannot afford to have two invalids on
her hands."

Salis looked up, and held out his hand to
the old doctor, who had uttered the words
softly, as doctors do : " You have hardly had
a good night's rest since you left."

I have not been to bed," said Salis
simply. 'there, I will try and sleep now."

The doctor made Mary a sign, and she
drew back as Salis closed his eyes, and the
breakfast which had been prepared as he
drove in that morning from King's Hampton

after travelliiio- all nio-ht reniaiiied untasted.


That was at seven o'clock, and it was
seven at nio-ht when he awoke to look
sharply round, and see Mary at the head of
the couch.

'* I — where am ? Have I been

asleep ? "

Yes," said Mary softly.

Hah ! " he ejaculated, springing up. " I
have done all I could, Mary," he said almost
appealingly. '' I think they are married.
It's a proud thing for us, dear, to have a lady
of title for sister," he added bitterly, as he
took Mary to his heart, and she felt it
throbbing with his emotion.

*' There"' he said, after a few minutes'
struggle, "now for other duties. I still have
you."

The pressure of Mary's hand spoke more
than words, and the poor fellow sat at last,
feeling that, after all, there were great compensations
in life.

The sight of a well-dressed visitor coming
up to the house interrupted their quiet

communion, just as they had felt that no
more could be done respecting Leo, after
Salis had been placed au courant with the
state of affairs at the Rectory. Among
others that Dally had been to and fro
several times to see her grandfather, but
had settled down to her work as of old.

In fact that young lady entered the room
directly after the ringing of the gate bell, to
state that Mrs. Berens was in the drawing-room,
and wanted to see master '' particular."

I will see her for you. Hartley," said Mary.

No," replied Salis firmly ; '' I want work
to keep my brain quiet, or I shall be ill.
Show her in here, Dally."

No, no, I will fetch her," said Mary,
smiling at her brother's want of etiquette.

She left the room to return directly.

Come and see her, Hartley," she said.
Poor woman, she is in sad trouble."

'' Hah ! I am glad," cried Salis. " Something
to think about. The best medicine forme."


'* Oh, Mr. Salis, what shall I do ? What
you have so often said ! " sobbed Mrs. Berens,

as he entered the room, and she clung to his
extended hand.

What I have so often said ? "

Yes ; about riches. I'm a poor, helpless
woman now. All gone — all gone ! "

It was a long story about how she had
allowed herself to be influenced by Cousin
Thompson, whom she had permitted to make
investment after investment till he seemed to
have got the whole of the widow's money
into his hands.

'* And all went so well till that day when
I offended him, dear Mr. Salis. Since then
I have had nothing but bad news about my
property, and now I can get no answers
from him at all."

"A scoundrel!" cried Salis; *but what
day do you mean ? "

That day when — must I tell you everything
? "

If you wish for my help," said Salis
sharply.

I do, Mr. Salis ; but pray don't speak
angrily to me. I am so broken and unhappy
now."

'•'My dear madam, I want to hel) yon.
Pray tell me all."

He came clown to me one day — I have
the date somewhere — and he proposed tome.
I refused him at once, for I quite
disliked the man, and he went away my
enemy, Tm sure, and when I heard of his
conduct towards his cousin, I felt that I had
had a narrow escape from a perfect fiend.
And now, Mr. Salis, what shall I do ? "

*' The dog ! " ejaculated Salis. " Vm longing
for occupation ; leave it to me, Mrs. Berens.
I've been seeing a friend — my solicitor — in
town about North's affair with his cousin ;
we'll work the two together, and if Mr.
Thompson does not mind, he'll find himself ina
strange fix."

Cousin Thompson did find himself in a
strange fix, and what with threats of proceedings
against him for conspiracy and fraud, he
was very glad to compound matters in a way
which restored two-thirds of her comfortable
little fortune to Mrs. Berens.

What time these proceedings Averse going

on, North was gradually improving under
Mr. Delton's care, though the old gentleman
laughed, and said that the improvement
was not due to him.

Certainly it was the case that when North
had his often-recurring fits of imagination,
when he was fully convinced that the essence
of Luke Candlish was with him still, and he
turned wild with horror, the touch of Mary
Sails' soft, cool hand laid across his eyes,
where he held it as a talisman, invariably
exorcised the fancied spirit, and the ghost was
laid.

From recurring daily and with terrible
force, the fits came at last weekly, and then
a month passed before one came, and that was
slight.

Then more and more feeble, and then they
came no more.

There could only be one result to such
intercourse as this. Horace North gradually
awakened to the fact that he had been blind
as well as partly demented ; but a year had
elapsed before one day Sails and Mrs. Berens
entered the Rectory drawing-room to find

Mary sobbing gently on the young doctor's
breast, and heard her say :

I always loved you from the first."

Ah, Salis, you here ? " said North, rising
without a shade of discomposure on his face.
'omens Sana in corpore sand, old fellow. I
have been asking dear Mary if she will be my
wife."

My dear Horace," cried Salis, his face
flushing with pleasure, " Heaven bless you
both ! I am glad : but — er — the fact is, I
have been betrayed into asking Mrs. Berens
er — to

Dear, dear Mary ! " sobbed the homely,
simple-hearted woman ; *' don't, don't be
angry with me. I do love him so."

Another year had passed, but there had
been nothing definite heard about Leo.

Then came a black - bordered envelope,
with the direction in her hand, asking her
brother to help her, for she was in terrible
straits in London with her child. There
was plenty of money to be had, she said, but
everything was in confusion, and the agent of

Sir Thomas Caiidlish refused to acknowledge

o

her as the late baronet's wife.

But the energy of Hartley Salis soon set
this right.

For old Forelock's notion had proved to
be correct. Tom Candlish had literally drunk
himself to death, and the old man, who had
been giving Horace North a good deal of
trouble lately, and who was exceedingly
fractious and jealous of his grandchild's
young husband, his deputy at the church,
suddenly perked up on hearing that " young
Squire Tom " was to be brought down from
London to the family mausoleum.

There was a grand funeral, and the old
man, helped by Joe Chegg, got through his
part of the business with a good deal of his
old energy.

All was over, and Horace North, who had
been one of the mourners, as brother-in-law
of Lady Candlish of the Hall, was about to
turn away, with his mind strongly exercised
by the scene, and the recollections it evoked,
when he started, for he felt his sleeve
plucked.

VOL. III.

He turned sharply round to find himself
alone, gazing at the old sexton, as he gave
him one of his ghoulish grins — more hideous
than ever.

'' Now, granada," said a quick voice, and a
rosy little woman, who had evidently been
crying, took his arm, '* you're tired out, and
must come home. Joe will finish what's to be
done."

Go 'way ! go 'way ! " cried the old man
angrily.

"No, no, dear; don't dorrit Dr. North
now. He'll come and see you another
time."

'' Go 'way ! go 'way ! " cried the old man
again ; and then, laying his hideous, gnarled
hand upon the doctor's arm : " Don't want
to try no more 'experiments, do you, doctor,
eh ? "

North looked at him wildly, and could
hardly keep back a shudder.

No, no, Forelock," he said, recovering
himself.

'' But you'll come and see me tomorrow,
doctor, won't you ? "

North nodded, and walked away to Salis,
who was waiting for him at the vestry door,
and they entered one of the carriages to return
to the Hall, while, after watching them go, the
old man seated himself upon the mausoleum
steps, where he could watch while his new
grandson and deputy finished his duty, and
the great door was closed.

Too terrible to attempt," muttered North
to himself. " A narrow escape from a living
death, but I still thick that I was rio-ht."

iVy, Joe; ay, Dally; doctor's a clever
man, and I could tell you some strange tales
about he ; but no, no ; no, no ! Lock that
gate quickly, and help me home. Tm a
little stiff about the back. Lock him up, lad !
lock him up ! Now, Dally, let's get back.
Another Candlish there ; eh ! my lady, eh ! "'

Granada ! " cried Dally furiously ; and
the old man broke out into a chuckling
laugh, which nearly killed him, and he had
to sit down on a tomb and be patted on the
back, and his collar loosened, and then helped

slowly home, looking very limp and strange,
though with the doctor's help he managed
to survive another year.

The night of the funeral, when the doctor
and his young wife returned from the Hall,
where the handsome young widow sat alone
with her weak, sickly child, North had a
return of his imaginative malady ; but Mary's
hand was talismanic still, and the shadow
passed away, never to return.

THE END,

Charles DICKENS AND EVANS, Cestui, PALACE PRESS,
