OF Thou

N I Verity

or ILLINOIS

F359o
V.\

The person charging this material is responsible for
its return to the library from which it was withdrawn
on or before the Latest Date stamped below.

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books are reasons for disciplinary
action and may result in dismissal from the University.
To renew call Telephone Center, 333-8400

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS LIBRARY AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

L161— O-1096

OF HIGH DESCENT.

VOL. I.

^

ROY'S REPENTANCE. By Adeline Serjeant. 3 vols.

THE STORY OF A MARRIAGE. By L. Baldwin.
3 vols.

ROGER FERRON". By Mes. Macquoid. 2 vols!

A YOUNG GIRL'S LIFE. By B. L. Faejeon. 3 vols.

PRINCESS SUNSHINE. By Mrs. Liddell. 2 vols.

AT THE MOMENT OF VICTORY. By C. L. Piekis.
3 vols.

WARD AND DOWNEY, PUBLISHERS, LONDON.

OF HIGH DESCENT.

% lobcl

GEORGE MANVILLE Penn,

Author OF "THIS MA>''s TVIFE," ETC.

7.Y THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. I.

yard AND DOWNEY,
12, YORK STREET, C0YE:XT GARDEN.

1889.

[All Rights reserved

i

#

CONTENTS OF VOLUME I.

xii.

X

XIV.

XV.

XVI.

XVII.

XVIII.

XIX.

'' IN THE WEST Countrey

ELEMENTS OF A WHOLE

DISCORDS

A THUNDERBOLT

POISON AND ANTIDOTE

HARRY VINE SPEAKS PLAINLY ; SO DOES HIS

FRIEND .
CHEZ VAN HELDRE .
UNCLE LUKE SPEAKS HIS illud
IN OFFICE HOURS .
HARRY VINE HAS A WANT .
AUNT MARGUERITE STUDIES A COMEDY
UNCLE LUKE's SPARE CASH
TO REAP THE WIND
DIOGENES IN HIS TUB
MY aunt's bete noire
IN A West COAST GALE
THE NEWS .

HARRY VINE SHOWS HIS BRIGHT SIDE
A BAD night's WORK
























CHAPTER I.

'' IX THE WEST COUXTEEE."

Take care, Mr. Luke Vine, sir. There's a
bis: one comines."

The thin, little, sharp-featured, gray-haired
man on a rock looked sharply round, saw the
big one coming," stooped, picked up a large
basket, and, fishing-rod in hand, stepped back
and climbed up a few feet, just as a heavy
swell, which seemed to glide along rapidly over
the otherwise calm sea, heaved, flooded the
rock on which he had been standing, ran right
up so high as to bathe his feet, then sank back
in a series of glittering falls which sparkled in
the glorious sunshine ; there was a hissing and
sighing and sucking noise among the rocks,

VOL. I. B

and the wave passed on along the rugged coast,
leaving[ the sea calm and bright once more.

Many a poor lad's been took like that, Mr.
Luke, sir," said the speaker, " and never heard
of again. Why, if I hadn't called out, it would
have took you off your legs, and the current's
so strong here you'd have been swept away."

And there'd been an end of me, Polly, and
nobody a bit the worse, eh "? "

The last speaker seemed to fill his sharp,
pale face full of tiny wrinkles, and reduced his
eyes to mere slits, as he looked keenly at the
big robust woman at his side. She was about
fifty, but with her black hair as free from gray
as that of a girl, her dark eyes bright, and her
sun-tanned face ruddy with health, as she bent
forward with a great fish-basket supported
on her back by means of a broad leather strap
passed over her print sun-bonnet and across
her forehead.

"Nobody the worse, Mr. Luke, sir?" cried
the woman. " What a shame to talk like
that ! You ain't no wife, nor no child, but
there's Miss Louise."

Louisa, woman, Louisa," said the fisher
sharply.

Well, Louisa, sir. I only want to be
right ; but it was only yes'day as old Miss

^

Vine, as stood by when I was selling her some
hake, shook her finger at me and said I was to
say Miss Louise."

Humph 1 Never mind what my sister says.
Christened Louisa. — That ought to fetch 'em.'"'

Yes, sir ; that ought to fetch 'em," said
the woman in a sing-song way, as the elderly
man gave the glistening' bait at the end of
his running; line a deft swincr and sent it far
out into the bright sea. " I've seen the water
boiling sometimes out there with the bass
leaping and playing. What, haven't you
caught none, sir ? "

"Xo, Polly, not one; so just be off about
your business, and don't worry me with your
chatter."

Oh. I'm a-going, sir," said the woman good-humouredly
; "only I see you a-fishing, and
said to myself, ' Maybe Mr. Luke Vine's
fetched more than he wants, and he'd like
to sell me some of 'em for my customers.' "

And I haven't seen a bass this morning,
so be off."

Toe be sure, Mr. Luke Vine, sir ; and
when are you going to let me come up and
give your place a good clean ? I says to my
'Liza up at your brother's, sir, only yes'-
day "

B 2

'' Look here, Polly Perron' cried the fisher
viciously, " will you go, or must I ? "

"Don't be criss-cross, sir, I'm going," said
the woman, giving her basket a hitch. " Here's
Miss Louise — pisa — coming down the rocks with
Miss Matin."

*' Hang her confounded chatter ! " snarled
the fisher, as he drew out his bait, unwound
some more line, and made another throw, '^ bad
as those wretched stamps."

He cast an angry glance up at the mining
works high on the cliff side, whose chimney
shaft ran along the sloping ground till it
reared itself in air on the very top of the hill,
where in constant repetition the iron-shod
piles rose and fell, crushing the broken ore to
powder. " A man might have thought he'd
be free here from a woman's tongue."

He gave another glance behind him, along
the rocky point which jutted out several hundred
yards, and formed a natural breakwater
to the estuary, which ran, rock-sheltered, right
up into the land, and on either side of which
were built rugged flights of natural steps, from
the bright water's edge to where, five hundred
feet above, the gray wind-swept masses of
granite looked jagged against the sky.

Then he watched his great painted float,

as it ran here and there in the eddies of the
tremendous Atlantic currents which swept
along by the point. The sea sparkled, the
sun shone, and the era o-nlls floated above
the deep blue transparent water, uttering a
querulous cry from time to time, and then
dipping down at the small shoals of fry which
played upon the surface.

Far away seaward a huge vessel was going
west, leaving behind a trail of smoke ; on his
right a white-sailed yacht or two glistened in
the sun. In another direction, scattered here
and there, brown-sailed luggers were passing
slowly along ; while behind the fisher lay the
picturesque straggling old town known as East
and West Hakemouth, with the estuary of the
little river pretty well filled with craft, from
the fishing luo-o-ers and trawlers up to the
soot-sized schooners and brig's which traded
round the coast or adventured across the Bay of
Storms, by Spain and through the Straits, laden
with cargoes of pilchards for the Italian ports.
"Missed him," grumbled the fisher, withdrawing
his line to re-bait with a pearly strip
of mackerel. " Humph ! now I'm to be worried
by those chattering girls."

The worry was very close at hand, for
directly after, balancing themselves on the

rough rocks, and leaping from mass to mass,
came two bright-looking girls of about twenty,
their faces flushed by exercise, and more than
slightly tanned by the strong air that blows
health-laden from the Atlantic.

As so often happens in real life as well as
in fiction, the companions were dark and fair ;
and as they came laughing and talking, full of
animation, looking a couple of as bonny looking
English maidens as the West Country
could produce, their aspect warranted, in reply
to the greetings of " Ah, Uncle Luke I " " Ah,
Mr. Vine ! " something a little more courteous
than —

Well, Nuisance ? " addressed with a short
nod to the dark girl in white serge, and " Do,
Madelaine "? " to the fair girl in blue.

The gruffness of the greeting seemed to betaken
as a matter of course, for the girls
seated themselves directly on convenient masses
of rock, and busied themselves in the governance
of sundry errant strands of hair which
were playing in the breeze.

The elderly fisher watched them furtively,
and his sour face seemed a little less grim, and
as if there was something after ail pleasant to
look upon in the bright youthful countenances
before him.

'' Well, uncle, how many fish ? " said the
dark girl.

Bah ! and don't chatter, or I shall get
none at all. How's dad ? "

Quite well. He's out here somewhere."

''■ Dabbling ? "

Yes."

The girl took off her soft yachting cap, and
fanned her face ; then ceased, and half closing
her eyes and throwing back her head, let her
red lips part slightly as she breathed in full
draughts of the soft western breeze.

'■' If he ever gives her a moment's pain,"
said the old man to himself, as he jerked a
look up at the mining works, '' 111 kill him."
Then, turning sharply to the fair girl, he
said aloud — " Well, Madelaine, how's the hon
fere ? "

Quite well, and very busy seeing to the
lading of the Carmina,' said the girl with
animation.

Humph ! Old stupid. Worrying himself
to death money-grubbing. Here, Louie, when's
that boy going back to his place ? "

To-morrow, uncle."

'"'Good job too. AVhat did he want with
a holiday ? Never did a day's work in his
life. Here ! Hold her, Louie. She's going

to peck' he added in mock alarm, and with
a cynical sneering laugh, as he saw his niece's
companion colour slightly, and compress her
lips.

Well, it's too bad of you, uncle. You are
always finding fault about Harry."

Say Henri, pray, my child, and with a
good strong French accent," cried the old man,
with mock remonstrance. " What would Aunt
Marguerite say ? "

'aunt Margaret isn't here, uncle," cried
the girl merrily ; " and it's of no use for you
to grumble and say sour things, because we
know you by heart, and we don't believe in
you a bit."

''No," said the fisherman grimly, 'only
hate me like poison, for a sour old
crab. Never gave me a kiss when you
came."

How could I, without o^ettinof wet ? " said
the girl, with a glance at the tiny rock island
on which the fisher stood.

Humph ! Going back tomorrow, eh ?
Good job too. Why, he has been a whole
half-year in his post."

Yes, uncle, a whole half-year ! "

"And never stayed two months before at
any of the excellent situations your father and

I worried ourselves and our friends to death
to set for him."

"Now, uncle "

'•' A lazy. thoughtless, o-ood-for-nothing^younG^

vag There, hold her again, Louie. She's

going to peck."

'•' And you deserve it, uncle," cried the girl,
with a smile at her companion, in whose eyes
the indignant tears were rising.

What ! for speaking the truth, and trying
to let that foolish girl see my lord in his right
colours ? "

Harry's a good affectionate brother, and I
love him very dearly," said Louise, firmly ;
•''and he's your brother's son, uncle, and in
your heart you love him too, and you're
proud of him as proud can be."

'you're a silly young goose, and as feather-brained
as he is. Proud of him ? Bah ! I
wish he'd enlist for a soldier, and get shot."

'• For shame, uncle ! " cried Louise indignantly
: and her face flushed too as she caught

o

and held her companion's hand.

Yes. For shame ! It's all your aunt's
doing, stuffing the boy's head full of fantastic
foolery about his descent, and the disgrace of
trade. And now I am speaking, look here's
he cried, turning sharply on the fair girl, and

holding his rod over her as if it were a huge
stick which he was about to use. "Do you
hear, Madelaine ? "

I'm listening, Mr. Vine," said the girl,
coldly.

I've known you ever since you were two
months old, and your silly mother must insist
upon my taking hold of you — you miserable
little bit of pink putty, as you were then, and
fooled me into being godfather. How I could
be such an ass, I don't know — but I am, and
I gave you that silver cup, and I've wanted it
back ever since."

Oh, uncle, what a wicked story ! " cried
Louise, laughing.

It's quite true, miss. Dead waste of
money. It has never been used, I'll swear."

No, Mr. Vine, never," said Madelaine,
smiling now.

Ah, you need not show your teeth at me
because you're so proud they're white. Lots
of the fisher-girls have got better. That's
right, shut your lips up, and listen. What
I've got to say is this : if I see any more of
that nonsense there'll be an explosion."

I don't know what you mean," said Madelaine,
colouring more deeply.

Yes you do, miss. I saw Harry put his

arm round your waist, and I won't have it.
What's your father thinking about? Why,
that boy's no more fit to be your husband than
that great, ugly, long, brown-bearded Scotchman
who poisons the air with his copper-mine,
is to be Louie's."

Uncle, you are beyond bearing to-day."

Am I ? Well then, be off. But you mind,
]\Iiss Maddy, I won't have it. You'll be silly
enough to marry some day, but when you do,
you shall marry a man, not a feather-headed
young ass, with no more brains than that bass.
Ah, I've got you this time, have I ? "

He hid thrown in again, and this time
struck and hooked a large fish, whose struggles
he watched with grim satisfaction, till he drew
it gasping and quivering on to the rock — a
fine bass, whose silver sides glistened like
those of a salmon, and whose sharp back
fin stood up ready to cut the unwitting
hand.

"Bad for him, Louie," said the old man
with a laugh ; " but one must have dinners,
eh ? What a countenance ! " he continued,
holding up his fish ; "puts me in mind of that
fellow you have up at the house — what's his
name, Riddle, Fiddle '? "

Pradelle, uncle."

All, Pradelle. Of course he's going: back
too."

'' Yes, uncle."

"Don't like him," continued Uncle Luke,
re-baiting quickly and throwing out ; " that
fellow has got scoundrel written in his face."

For shame ! Mr. Vine," said Madelaine,
laughing. " Mr. Pradelle is very gentlemanly
and pleasant."

** Good-looking scoundrels always are, my
dear. But he don't want you. I watched
him. Going to throw over the Scotchman
and take to Miss Louie ? "

Uncle, you've got a bite," said the girl
coolly.

Eh ? So I have. Got him, too," said the
old man, striking and playing his fish just as if
he were angling in fresh water. " Thumper."

*' What pleasure can it give you to say such
unpleasant things, uncle ? " continued the girl.

"Truths always are unpleasant," said the
old man, laughing. "Don't bother me, there's
a shoal off the point now, and I shall get some
fish."

Why, you have all you want now, uncle."

Rubbish ! Shall get a few shillings worth
to sell Mother Perron."

"Poor Uncle Luke!" said the girl with

mock solemnity ; " obliged to fish for ins
living."

Better than idling and doing notliino^. I

like to do it, and There he is again.

Don't talk."

He hooked and landed another fine bass
from the shoal which had come up with the
tide that ran like a mill stream off the point,
when as he placed the fish in the basket he
raised his eyes.

"Yah ! Go back and look after your men.
I thought that would be it. Maddy, look at
her cheeks."

Oh, uncle, if I did not know you to be the
best and dearest of "

Tchah ! Carney ! " he cried, screwing up
his face. " Look here, I want to catch a few
fish and make a little money, so if that long
Scot is coming courting, take him somewhere
else. Beofi'l"

If Mr. Duncan Leslie is coming to say
good-day, uncle, I see no reason why he should
not say it here," said Louise, calmly enough
now, and with the slight flush which had
suffused her cheeks fading out.

Good-day ! A great tall sheepish noodle
who don't know when he's well ofi"," grumbled
the fisher, thro win of out once more as a tall

gentlemanly-looking young fellow of about
eight-ancl-twenty stepped actively from rock
to rock till he had joined the group, raising
his soft tweed hat to the ladies and shaking
hands.

'' What a lovely morning ! " he said eagerly.
I saw you come down. Much sport, Mr.
Vine ? " he added, as he held out his hand.

No," said Uncle Luke, nodding and holding
tightly on to his rod. *' Hands full. Can't
you see ? "

Oh, yes, I see. One at you now."

Thanks. Think I couldn't see ? " said
the old man, striking and missing his fish.
Very kind of you to come and see how I was
getting on."

'' But I didn't," said the new-comer, smiling.
I knew you didn't want me."

Here, Louie, make a note of that," said
Uncle Luke, sharply. " The Scotch are not so
dense as they pretend they are."

Uncle ! "

*' Oh, pray don't interpose, Miss Vine. Your
uncle and I often have a passage of arms
together."

Well, say what you've got to say, and then
go back to your men. Has the vein failed ? "

No, sir ; it grows richer every day."

Sorry for it. I suppose you'll be burrowing
under my cottage and burying me one of
these days before my time ? "

'' Don't be alarmed, sir."

I'm not," Growled Uncle Luke.

Uncle is cross, because he is catching more
fish than he wants this morning," said Louise
quietly.

Hear that, Maddy, my dear ? " said the
old man, sharply. " Here's a problem for
you : — If my niece's tongue is as keen-adored
as that before she is twenty, what will it be at
forty ? "

The girl addressed laughed and shook her
head.

Any one would think it would be a warning
to any sensible man to keep his distance."

Uncle ! Pray ! " whispered the niece, looking
troubled ; but the old man only chuckled
and hooked another fish.

Going to make a fortune out of the old

o

mine, Leslie ? " he said.

Fortune ? No, sir. A fair income, I
hope."

AVhich with prudence and economy —
Scottish prudence and economy — " he added,
meaningly, '' would keep you when you got to
be an old man like me. Bah ! "

He snatched out his line and gave an impatient
stamp with his foot.

'' What is the matter, uncle '? "

What's the matter ? It was bad enough
before. Look there ! "

ELEMENTS OF A WHOLE.

Madelaine Van Heldre had seen the
object of Uncle Luke's vexation before he
called attention to it ; and at the first glance
her eyes had lit up with pleasure, but only to
give place to an anxious, troubled look, and
faint lines came across her brow.

Why, it is only Harry with his friend,"
said Louise quietly.

Yes : flopping and splashing about in the
boat. There will not be a fish left when they've
done."

I'll tell them to land at the lower stairs,"
said Louise eagerly.

No ; let 'em come and do their worst,"
said the old man, with C[uite a snarl. 'why
doesn't Harry row, instead of letting that
miserable cockney fool about with an oar ? "

'miserable cocivuey ! " said Duncan Leslie
to himself ; and his face, which had been over-vol.

I. <^

(hast, brightened a little as lie scanned the boat
coming; from the harbour.

"Mr. Pradelle likes exercise," said Louise
quietly.

Duncan's face grew dull again.

Then I wish he would take it in London,"
said the old man, "jumping over his desk or
using his pen, and not come here."

The water glistened and sparkled with the
vigorous strokes giveth by the two young men
who propelled the boat, and quickly after there
was a grating noise as the bows ground against
the rocks of the point and a young man in
white flannels leaped ashore, while his companion
after awkwardly laying in his oar followed
the example, balancing himself as he
stepped on to the gunwale, and then-after the
fashion of a timid horse at a gutter, making a
tremendous bound on to the rocks.

As he did this his companion made a quick
leap back into the bows to seize the chain,
when he had to put out an oar once more and
paddle close up to the rock, the boat having
been sent adrift by the force of the other's
leap.

What a fellow you are, Pradelle ! " he said,
as he jumped on to a rock, and twisted the
chain about a block.

Very sorry, dear boy. Didn't think of
that."

No," said the first sourly, " you didn't."

He was a well-knit manly fellow, singularly
like his sister, while his companion, whom he
had addressed as Pradelle, seemed to be his
very opposite in every way, though on the
whole better looking ; in fact, his features were
remarkably handsome, or would have been had
they not been marred by his eyes, which were
set close together, and gave him a shifty look.

^' How aTe you, uncle ? How do, Leslie ? "
said Harry, as he stood twirling a gold locket
at the end of his chain, to receive a grunt from
the fisherman, and a friendly nod from the
young mine-owner. " So here you are then,"
he continued ; " we've been looking for you
everywhere. You said you were going along
the west walk."

Yes, but we saw uncle fishing, and came
down to him."

Well, come along now."

Come ? Where? "

Come where ? Why for a sail. Wind's
just right. Jump in."

Duncan Leslie looked o;rave, but he brightened
a little as he heard what followed.

•" Oh, no, Harry."

C 2

As she spoke, Louise Vine glanced at her
companion, in whose face she read an eager
look of acquiescence in the proposed trip,
which changed instantly to one of agreement
with her negative.

There, Vic. Told you so. Taken all our
trouble for nothing."

But, Harry "

Oh, all right," he cried, interrupting her,
in an ill-used tone. " Just like girls. Here's
our last day before we go back to the confounded
grindstone. We've got the boat, the
Weather's lovely ; we've been looking for you
everywhere, and it's ' Oh no, Harry ! ' And
Madelaine looking as if it would be too shocking
to go for a sail."

"We don't like to disappoint you," said
Madelaine, " but "

But you'd rather stay ashore," said the
young man shortly. " Never mind, Vic, old
chap, we'll go alone, and have a good smoke.
Cheerful, isn't it ? I say. Uncle Luke, you're
quite right."

First time you ever thought so then," said
the old man shortly.

Perhaps Miss Vine will reconsider her
determination," said the young man's companion,
in a low soft voice, as he went toward

Louise, and seemed to Duncan Leslie to be
throwing all the persuasion possible into his
manner.

Oh no, thank you, Mr. Pradelle," she
replied hastily, and Duncan Leslie once more
felt relieved and yet pained, for there was a
peculiar consciousness in her manner,

We had brought some cans with us and
a hammer and chisel," continued Pradelle.
Harry thought we might go as far as the
horns."

Horns, man," cried Harry.

I beg pardon, corns, and get a few specimens
for Mr. Vine."

It was very kind and thoughtful of
Harry," said Louise hastily, " and we are
sorry to disappoint him — on this his last day
—but "

'' Blessed dits ! " said Harry, with a sneer ;
and he gave Madelaine a withering look, which
made her bite her lip.

And the fish swarming round the point,"
said Uncle Luke impatiently. " Why don't
you go with them, girls ? "

Right again, uncle," said Harry.

The old man made him a mocking bow.

Go, uncle ? " said Louise eagerly, and then
checking herself.

Duncan Leslie's heart sank like an ingot of
his own copper dropped in a tub.

*eyes, go."

If you think so, uncle "

Well, I do," he said testily, " only pray goat
once."

'' There ! " cried Harry. '' Come, Maddy."

He held out his hand to his sister's companion,
but she hesitated, still looking at
Louise, whose colour was going and coming as
she saw Pradelle take ois his cap and follow
his friend's example, holding out his hand to
help her into the boat.

'eyes, dear," she said to Madelaine gravely.
'they would be terribly disappointed if we
did not go."

The next moment Madelaine was in the
boat, Louise still hanging back till, feeling that
it would be a slight worse than the refusal to
go if she ignored the help extended to her, she
laid her hand in Pradelle's, and stepped off the
rock into the gently rising and falling boat.

"Another of my mistakes' said Duncan
Leslie to himself ; and then he started as if
some one had given him an electric shock.

"Hullo!" cried the old man. "You're
going too ? "
"I? going?"

Yes, of course ! To take care of them. I'm
not going to have them set off without someone
to act as ballast to those boys."

Louise mentally cast her arms round the
old man's neck and kissed him.

Harry, in the same manner, kicked his uncle
into the sea, and Pradelle's eyes looked closer
together than usual, as he turned them upon
the young mine-owner.

I should only be too happy," said the
latter, " if "

Oh, there's plenty of room, Mr. Leslie,"
cried the girls in duet. " Pray come."

The invitation was so genuine that Leslie's
heart seemed to leap.

Oh yes, plenty of room," said Harry,
'' only if the wind drops, you'll have to pull
an oar."

Of course," said Leslie, stepping in.

Harry raised the boat-hook, and thrust the
little vessel away, and then began to step the
mast.

"Lay hold of the rudder, Leslie," he cried.
"Send us up some fish for tea, uncle."

"Ll wait and see first whether you come
back," said the old man. " Good-bye, girls.
Don't be uneasy. I'll go and tell the old
people if you're drowned."

Thank you," shouted back the young man
as he hoisted the little sail, which began to fill
at once, and by the time he had it sheeted
home, the boat was swiftly running eastward
with the water 73attei'ino: against her bows, and

-1- O O '

a panorama of surpassing beauty seeming to
glide slowly by them on the left.

There ! " cried Harry to his friend, who
had seated himself rather sulkily forward, the
order to take the tiller having placed Leslie
between Louise and Madelaine. " Make much
of it, Vic : Haddington tomorrow night, hansom
cab or the Underground, and next morning
the office. Don't you feel happy ? "

Yes, now," said Pradelle, with a glance at
Louise.

Easy, Leslie, easy," cried Harry ; " where
are you going ? "

I beg pardon," said the young man hastily,
for he had unwittingly changed the course of
the boat.

That's better. Any one would think you
wanted to give Uncle Luke the job he talked
about."

Madelaine looked up hastily.

No : we will not do that, Miss Van ,"
said Leslie smiling. *' Shall I hold the
sheet, Vine ? "

"No need," said the young man, making
the rope fast.

But "

'soh, all right. I know what you're going
to say — puff of wind might lay us over as we
pass one of the combes. Wasn't born here for
nothing."

Leslie said no more, but deferred to the
opinion of the captain of the boat.

Mio-ht as well have brought a line to trail.
You'd have liked to fish, wouldn't you, Vic 1 "

Only when we are alone," said Pradelle.
*' Can you tell me the name of that point, Miss
Vine r

Break," said Louise quietly.

"• And that little valley ? "

Tol Du. The old Cornish names must
sound strange to any one from London."

Oh no," he said, bending forward to engage
her in conversation. " This place is very
interesting, and I shall regret going," he added
with a sio-h, and a thoughtful look toward the
picturesque little group of houses on either side
of the estuary.

I should think you will," said Harry.
'* Never mind, we've had a very jolly time. I
say, Maddy," he whispered, " you will write to
a fellow, won't you ? "

No," she said quietly ; *' there is no
need."

No need ? "

Louie will be writing to you every week,
and you will answer her. I shall hear how
you are getting on."

Harry whistled and looked angrily at his
sister, who was replying to some remark made
by Leslie.

*' Pere, Vic," he said, "she's too heavy forward.
Come and sit by my sister. That's
better. A little more over to the side, Leslie.
Always trim your boat."

The changes were made, and the little yawl
sped rapidly on past the headland of gray
granite hoary and shaggy with moss ; past
black frowning masses of slaty shale, over and
amongst which the waves broke in sparkling
foam, and on and on by ferny hollows and
rifts, down which trickled tiny streams. The
day was glorious, and the reflection of the
sapphire sky dyed the sea tint of a blue that
seemed amethystine in its richer transparent
hue. The gray gulls floated overhead, and
the tiny fish they pursued made the sea flash
as they played about and showed their silvery
sides.

But the conversation flagged. Possibly the

fact of its being the last clay of a pleasant
sojourn acted upon the spirits of two of the
party, while the third of the male occupants
of the boat rather welcomed the restraint and
silence, for it gave him an opportunity to sit
and think and wonder what was to be his
future, and what the animated countenance of
Louise Vine meant as she answered the questions
of her brother's friend.

He was a visitor as well as her brother's
companion ; he had been staying at Mr. Vine's
for a fortnight. They had had endless opportunities
for conversation, and — in short, Duncan
Leslie felt uncomfortable.

It was then with a feeling of relief that was
shared by both the ladies, that after a few
miles run Henry Vine stood up in the bows,
and, keeping a sharp look out for certain rocks,
shouted his orders to Leslie as to the steering
of the boat, and finally, as they neared the
frowning cliffs, suddenly lowered the sail and
took up the oars.

They were abreast of a large cave, where
the swift gray-winged pigeons flew in and out
over the swelling waves, which seemed to oxide
slowly on and on, to rush rapidly after the
birds and disappear in the gloom beneath the
arch. Then there was a low echoing boom as

the wave struck far away in the cave, and
came back hissing and whispering to be merged
in the next.

Going to row close in '? " said Leslie,
acanni Dg the weird, forbidding place rather
anxiously.

'' Going to row right in," said Harry, with
a contemptuous smile. " Not afraid, are
you?"

CWt say," replied Leslie. *' A little perhaps.
The place does not look tempting. Do
you think it is safe to go in ? "

Like to land on the rock till we come
back ? " said Harry, instead of answering the
question.

No," said Leslie quietly ; " but do you
think it wise to row in there ? "

You're not afraid, are you, girls ? "

I always feel nervous till we are outside
again," said Louise quietly.

But you will be very careful, Harry," said
Madelaine.

"Think I want to drown myself? " he said
bitterly. '' I might just as well, p reaps, as go
back to that dismal office in London, to slave
from morning till night."

He rested upon his oars for a minute
or two, and perhaps from the reflection of

the masses of ferns which fringed the arch
of the cavern, and which were repeated in
the clear waters, Victor Pradelle's face seemed
to turn of a sickly green, while one hand
grasped the edge of the boat with spasmodic
force.

Now then, hold tight," said the rower, asa
swell came from seaward, running rio;ht in
and raising the boat so that by skilful management
she was borne forward right beneath
the arch and then away into the depths of the
cavern, leaving her rocking upon the watery
floor, while it sped on away into the darkness,
where it broke with a booming; noise which
echoed, and whispered, and died away in sobs,
and sighs, and strange hisses and gasps, as if
the creatures which made the cavern their lair
had been disturbed, and were settling down
again to sleep.

There, Vic," cried Harry, " what do you
thmk of this ? "

Pradelle was holding tightly by the side of
the boat, and gazing uneasily round.

Think ? Yes : very wild and wonderful,"
he said huskily.

Wonderful ? I should think it is. Goes
in ever so far, only it isn't wide enough for the
boat."

Leslie looked back at the mouth, fringed
with the fronds of ferns, and at the lovely
picture it framed of sunny amethystine sea ;
then at the rocky sides, dripping with moisture,
and here of a rich metallic green, there covered
with glistening weeds of various shades of
olive-green and brown.

Ahoy — oy ! " shouted Harry with all his
micrht, and at the same moment he let his oars
splash in the water.

Pradelle leaped to his feet as there came a
strangle echo and a whirring; rush, and a dozen
pigeons swept past their heads from out of the
depths of the water cave, and away into the
brilliant sunshine.

Oh, if I had a gun," cried Pradelle, to hide
his confusion.

'what for — to make a miss?" sneered
Harry. " Now then, out with those cans.
Fill every one, and I'll try and knock off a few
anemones for the governor."

As he spoke he laid in his oars, picked a
hammer and chisel from out of the locker in
the forepart of the boat, and then worked it
along by the side of the great cave, ass from
out of the clefts and crannies above and beneath
the water he searched for the semi-gelatinous
sea-anemones that clustered among barnacles,

and the snail-like ^YllOli molluscs whose home
was on the weedy rocks.

The girls aided all they could, pointing
out and receiving in the tins a many-rayed
creature, which closed up till it resembled a
o;out of blood : now still adhering to the rock
which Harry chipped off, a beautiful Actinia
of olive-green with gem-like spots around the
mouth and amid its fringe, of turquoise blue.

Duncan Leslie eagerly lent his help ; and,
not to be behindhand, Pradelle took up the
boat-hook and held on, but with the smoothness
and care of a sleek tom-cat, he carefully
avoided wetting his hands.

•'•' Nothing very new here," said Harry at
last, as the waves that kept coming in made
the boat rise and fall gently ; " there's another
Letter cave than this close by. Let's go there ;
or what do you say to stopping here and
ha vino a smoke till the tide has risen and shut

us in ?

'"' Is there any risk of that ? " said Pradelle
anxiously.

'r Oh, yes, plenty."

Leslie glanced at Louisa and thought that
it would be very pleasant to play protector
all through the darkness till the way was open
and daylight shone again. He caught her

eyes more than once and tried to read them
as he wondered whether there was hope for
him ; but so surely as she found him gazing
rather wistfully at her, she hurriedly continued
the collecting, pointing out one of the beautiful
objects they sought beneath the surface,
and asking Pradelle to shift the boat a little
farther along.

All my vanity and conceit," said Leslie
to himself with a sigh ; " and why should I
worry myself about a woman ? I have plenty
to do without thinking of love and marriage.
If I did, why not begin to dream about
pleasant, straightforward Madelaine Van
Heldre ? There can be nothing more thana
friendly feeling towards Master Harry
here."

*now then, sit fast," cried the latter object
of his thoughts ; " and if we are Capsized,
girls, ril look after you, Maddy. Pradelle
here will swim out with Louie, and I shall
leave you to bring out the boat, Leslie. You
can swim, can't you ? "

A little," said the young man dryly.

Pradelle looked rather more green, for the
light within the cave was of a peculiar hue,
and he began to think uneasily of bathing
out of a machine at Margate, holding on to

a rope, and also of the effort he once made
to swim across a tepid bath in town. But
he laughed heartily directly after as he
realized that it was all banter on his friend's
part, while, in spite of himself, he gave a
sigh of relief as, riding out on the crest of a
broken wave, they once more floated in the
sunshine.

Ten minutes' careful rowing among the
rocks, which were now four or five feet beneath
the water, now showing their weedy
crests above, brought them to the mouth of
another cave, only approachable from the sea,
and sending the boat in here, the collection
went on till it was deemed useless to take
more specimens, when they passed out again,
greatly to Pradelle's satisfaction.

Howe's time ? " said Harry. " Half-past
four ? Plenty of time. High tea at six.
What shall wee do — sail right out and tack,
or row along here in the smooth water among
the rocks ? "

"Row slowly back," said Louise; and
Pradelle took an oar.

At the end of half a mile he ceased rowing.
Tired ? " said Harry.

"No; I have a blister on my hand; that's
all."

VOL. I. D

Come and pull, Leslie," said Harry.
'' You'd better steer, Louie, and don't send
us on to a rock."

The exchange of places was made, and once
more they began to progress with the boat,
travelling far more swiftly as they glided on
close in to the mighty cliff which rose up overhead,
dappled with mossy gray and patches
of verdure, dotted with yellow and purple
blooms.

"To go on like this for ever ! " thought
Leslie as he swunor to and fro, his strong
muscles making the water foam as he dipped
his oar, watching Louise as she steered, and
seemed troubled and ready to converse with
Pradelle whenever she caught his eye.

Stern all ! " shouted Harry suddenly, as
about three miles from home they came abreast
of a narrow opening close to the surface of the
water.

The way of the boat was checked, and
Harry looked at the hole into which the tide
ran and ebbed as the swell rose and fell, now
nearly covering the opening, now leaving it
three or four feet wide.

Bound to say there are plenty of good
specimens in there," he said. "What do you
say, Yic, shall we go in ? "

'' Impossible."

Not it. Bound to say that's the opening
to quite a large zorn. I've seen the seals go
in there often."

Has it ever been explored ? " said Leslie,
who felt interested in the place.

'^Xo; it's nearly always covered. It's only
at low tides like this that the opening is bared.
If the girls were not here I'd go in."

"Howl" said Pradelle.

'• How ? — why swim in,"

And be shut up by the tide and drowned,"
said Louise.

Good thing too," said Harry, with the
same look of a spoiled boy at Madelaine. " I
don't find life go very jolly. Boat wouldn't
pass in there."

He had risen from his seat and was standing
with one foot on the gunwale, the other
on the thwart, gazing curiously at the dark
orifice some forty yards away, the boat rising
and falling as it swayed here and there on the
waves, which ran up to the face of the cliff"
and back, dien just as the attention of all
was fixed upon the little opening, from which
came curious hissing; and rushing; noises, the
boat rose on a good-sized swell, and as it sank
was left upon the top of a weedy rock which

D 2

seemed to rise like the shaggy head of a huge
sea monster beneath the keel.

There was a bump, a grinding, grating
noise, a shout and a heavy splash, and the
boat, after narrowly escaping being capsized,
floated once more in deep water ; but Harry
had lost his balance, gone overboard, and
disappeared.

Madelaine uttered a cry of horror, and then
for a few moments there was a dead silence,
during which Louise sat with blanched face,
parted lips, and dilated eyes, gazing at the
spot where her brother had disappeared. Prae
held on by the side of the boat, and
Leslie sprang up, rapidly stripped off coat and
vest, and stood ready to plunge in.

Those moments seemed indefinitely prolonged,
and a terrible feeling of despair began
to attack the occupants of the boat as thought
after thought, each of the blackest type,
flashed through their brains. He had been
sucked down by the undertow, and was being
carried out to sea — he was entangled in the
slimy sea wrack, and could not rise again — he
had struck his head against the rocks, stunned
himself, and gone down like a stone, and so on.

Duncan Leslie darted one glance at the pale
and suffering face of the sister, paced a foot

on the gunwale, and was in the act of gathering
himself np to spring from the boat, when
Harry's head rose thirty yards away.

Ahoy ! " he shouted, as he began to
paddle and tread water. '' Hallo, Leslie, ready
for a bathe ? Come out ! Water's beautiful.
Swim you back to the harbour."

There was a long-drawn breath in the boat
which sounded like a groan, as the terrible
mental pressure was removed, and the young
man began to swim easily and slowly towards
his friends.

Mind she doesn't get on another rock,
Leslie," he cried.

'^ Here, catch hold of this," cried Pradelle,
whose face was ashy, and he held out the
boat-hook as far as he could reach.

Thank ye," said Harry mockingly, and
twenty yards away. ^' Little farther, please.
What a lovely day for a swim ! "

Harry, pray come into the boat," cried
Louise excitedly.

What for ? Mind the porpoise."

He gave a few sharp blows on the water
with his hands, raising himself up and turning
right over, dived, his legs just appearing above
the surface, and then there was an eddy where
he had gone down.

Don't be frightened' whispered Madelaine,
whose voice sounded a little husky.

Here we are again ! " cried Harry, reappearing
close to the boat and spluttering the water
from his lips, as with all the gaiety of a boy
he looked mirthfully at the occupants of the
boat. " Any orders for pearls, ladies ? "

Don't be foolish, Harry," cried Louise, ashe
swam close to them.

Not going to be. I say, Leslie, take the
boat-hook away from that fellow, or he'll
be making a hole in the bottom of the
boat."

As he spoke, he laid a hand upon the gunwale
and looked merrily from one to the
other.

Don't touch me, girls. I'm rather damp,"
he said. " I say, what a capital bathing dress
flannels make ! "

** Shall I help you in ? " said Leslie.

No, thank ye, Fm all right. As I am. in,
I may as well have a swim."

No, no, Harry, don't be foolish," cried
Louise.

There, you'd better hitch a rope round
me, and tow me behind, or I shall swamp the
boat."

Harry ! what are you going to do ? " cried

adelaide, as he looked his hold of the gunwale,
and began to swim away.

Wait a bit and you'll see," he cried.
Leslie, you take care of the boat. I shan't
be long."

"But, Harry "

'all right, I tell you."

Where are you going ? "

•'' In here"' he shouted back, and he swam
straight to the low opening at the foot of the
massive granite cliff, paddled a little at the
mouth till the efflux of water was over, and
then as a fresh wave came, he took a few
strokes, gave a shout, and to the horror of the
two crirls seemed to be sucked rio-ht into the
opening.

As he disappeared, he gave another shout, a
hollow strange echoing " Good-bye," and a few
moments after there was a run back of the
water and a hollow roar, and it needed very
little exercise of the imagination to picture
the rugged opening as the mouth of some
marine monster into which the young man
had passed.

Discords.

'' Don't be alarmed' said Leslie quietly ;
I dare say it is like one of the corns yonder,
only the mouth is too narrow for a boat."

But it is so foolish," said Louise, giving
him a grateful look.

*' Yes, but he swims so easily and well, there
is nothing to mind. What are you going todo,
Mr. Pradelle ? "

"Work the boat close up so as to help him,"
said Pradelle shortly.

''No, don't do that. We have had one
escape [from a capsize. We must keep out
here in deep water."

Pradelle frowned.

''I think I know what I'm about, sir," he
said sharply ; " do you suppose I am going to
sit here when my friend may be in danger ? "

I have no doubt you know wdiat you
are about in London, sir," said Leslie quietly.

'' ]mt this Is not a pavement in the Strand,
and it is not safe to take the boat closer
in."

Pradelle was about to make some retort, but
Louise interposed.

^' Try if you can get nearer the mouth of
that dreadful place, Mr. Leslie," she said, " I
am getting terribly alarmed."

Leslie seated himself, took the oars, turned
the boat, and backed slowly and cautiously in,
holding himself ready to pull out again at the
slightest appearance of danger. For the sea
rushed against the rocky barrier with tremendous
force, while even on this calm day the
swing and wash and eddy amongst the loose
rocks was formidable.

By skilful management Leslie backed the
boat to within some thirty feet of the opening ;
but the position was so perilous that he had to
pull out for a few yards to avoid a couple of
rocks, which in the movement of the clearwater
seemed to be rising: toward them from
time to time, and coming perilously near.

Then he shouted, but there was no answer.
He shouted ao^ain and ao^ain, but there was no
reply, and a chill of horror, intensifying from
moment to moment, came upon all.

Harry ! Harry ! " cried Louise, now raising

her voice, as Madelaine crept closer to her and
clutched her hand.

But there was no reply. No sound but the
rush and splash and hiss of the waters as they
struck the rocks, and came back broken from
the attack.

What folly I " muttered Leslie, with his
face growing rugged. Then quickly, "I don't
think you need feel alarmed ; I dare say he
has swum in for some distance, and our voices
do not reach him. Stop a moment."

He suddenly remembered a little gold dog-whistle
at his watch-chain, and raising it to
his lips he blew long and shrilly, till the earpiercing
note echoed along the cliff, and the
gulls came floating lazily overhead and peering
wonderingly down.

I say, Harry, old man, come out now,"
cried Pradelle, and then rising from bis seat,
he placed his hands on either side of his lips,
and uttered the best imitation he could manage
of the Australian call, " Coo-ey ! Coo-ey ! "

There were echoes and whispers, and the
rush and hiss of the water. Then two or three
times over there came from out of the opening
a peculiar dull hollow sound, such as might
be made by some great animal wallowing far
within.

Mr. Leslie," said Louise, in a low appealing
voice, " what shall we do ? "

Oh, wait a few minutes, my dear Miss
Vine," interposed Pradelle, hastily. " He'll be
out directly. I assure you there is no cause
for alarm."

Leslie frowned, but his face coloured directly,
for his heart gave a great throb.

Louise paid not the slightest heed to Prae
words, and kept her limpid eyes fixed
appealingly upon Leslie's, as if she looked to
him for help.

I hardly know what to do," he said in a
low business-like tone. " I dare not leave
you without some one to manage the boat, or
I would go in."

Yes, yes, pray go ! " she said excitedly.
'' Never mind us."

We could each take an oar and keep the
boat here," said Madelaine quickly; "we can
both row."

"No, really; I'll manage the boat," said
Pradelle.

I think you had better leave it to the
ladies, Mr. Pradelle," said Leslie coldly. " They
know the coast."

Well really, sir, I "

This is no time for interference," cried

Madeleine, with a flush of excitement, and she
caught hold of an oar. " Louie dear, quick ! "

The other oar was resigned, and as Leslie
passed aft, he gave Louise one quick look,
reading in her face, as he believed, trust and
thankfulness and then dread.

No, no, Mr. Leslie, I hardly dare let you
go," she faltered.

Flash !

The boat was rolling and dancing on the
surface, relieved of another burden, and
Duncan Leslie was swimming; toward the
opening.

The two girls dipped their oars from time to
time, for their sea-side life had given them
plenty of experience of the management of a
boat ; and as Pradelle sat looking sulky and
ill-used, they watched the swimmer as he too
timed his movements, so that he gradually
approached, and then in turn was sucked right
into the weird water-way, which might lead
another into some terrible chasm from which
there was no return.

A low hoarse sigh, as if one had whispered
while suffering pain the word " Hah ! " and
then with dilated eyes the two girls sat
watching the black opening for what seemed
a terrible interval of time, before, to their

intense relief, there came a shout of laughter,
followed by the appearance of Leslie, who
swam out looking stern, and closely followed
by Harry.

'•' It is not the sort of fun I can appreciate,
Miss Vine," said Leslie, turning as he reached
the stern of the boat.

'•' Well, I know that," cried Harry mockingly.
'•' Scotchmen never can appreciate a
joke."

'•' There, ladies, what did I tell you ? " cried
Pradelle triumphantly.

There was no reply, and the visitor from
London winced, for his presence in the boat
seemed to be thoroughly de trop).

Miss Vine — Miss Van Heldre," said Leslie
quietly, '' will you change places now ? Get
right aft, and we will climb in over the
bows."

But the boat ? " faltered Louise, whose
emotion was so great that she could hardly
trust herself to speak.

"We'll see to that," said Leslie. "Your
brother and I will row back."

It did not seem to trouble him now that
the two girls took their places, one on either
side of PradeUe, while as soon as they were
seated he climbed in streaming: with water,

seating himself on the gunwale, Harry climbing
in on the other side.

Harry, how could you ? " cried Louise,
now, with an indignant look.

'' Easily enough," he said, seating himself
calmly. '' Thought you'd lost me ? "

He looked at Madelaine as he spoke, but
she turned her face away, biting her lips, and
it was Louise who replied,

I did not think you could have been so
cruel."

Cruel be hanged ! " he retorted. " Thought
I'd find out whether I was of any consequence
after all. You people seem to say I'm of none.
Did they begin to cry, Vic ? "

'' Oh, I'm not going to tell tales," said
Pradelle with a smile.

I should have had a pipe in there, only
my matches had got wet."

Ha-ha-ha ! " laughed Pradelle, and the
mirth sounded strange there beneath the rocks,
and a very decided hiss seemed to come from
out of the low rugged opening.

Try again, Vic," said Harry mockingly ;
but his friend made no reply, for he was staring
hard and defiantly at Leslie, who, as he handled
his oar, gave him a calmly contemptuous look
that galled him to the quick.

*' Ready, Leslie ? " said Any.

Yes."

The oars clipped, Leslie pulling stroke, and
the boat shot out from its dangerous position
among the rocks, rose at a good-sized swelling
wave, topped it, seemed to hang as in a balance
for a moment, and then glided down and
went forward in response to a few vigorous
strokes.

"Never mind the tiller, Yic," said Harry;
let it swing. We can manage without that.
All right, girls ? "

There was no reply.

Sulky, eh ? Well, Fd a good mind to
stop in. Sorry you got so wet, Leslie."

Still no reply.

Cheerful party, 'pon my word ! " said
Harry with a contemptuous laugh. " Hope
no one objects to my smoking."

He looked hard at Madelaine, but she
avoided his gaze, and he uttered a short
laugh.

Got a cigar to spare, Vic '? "

Yes, dear boy, certainly."

*' Pass it along: then, and the lights. Hold
hard a minute, Leslie."

The latter ceased rowing as Pradelle handed
a cigar and the matches to his friend.

Will yoii take one, Mr. Leslie ? " said
Pradelle.

Thanks, no," said Leslie quietly, and to
the would-be donor's great relief, for he had
only two left. Then once more the rowing
was resumed, Pradelle striking a match to
light a cigar for himself, and then recollecting
himself and throwing the match away.

Well, we're enjoying ourselves ! " cried
Harry after they had proceeded some distance
in silence. ^' I say, Yic, say something ! "

Pradelle had been cudgelling his brains for
the past ten minutes, but the more he tried
to find something a propos the more every
pleasant subject seemed to recede.

Li fact it would have been difficult just
then for the most accomplished talker to have
set all present at their ease, for Harry's folly
had moved his sister so that she feared to
speak lest she should burst into a hysterical
fit of weeping, and Madelaine, as she sat therewith
her lips compressed, felt imbued with but
one desire, which took the form of the following
words :

Oh, how I should like to box his ears ! "

Getting dry, Leslie ? " said Harry after a
long silence.

Not very," was the reply.

'•' All, well, there's no fear of our catching
cold pulling like this."

'' Xot the slightest," said Leslie coldly ;
then there was another period of silence,
during which the water seemed to patter and
slap the bows of the boat, while the panorama
of rock and foam and spluttering: cascade, as
the crags were bathed by the Atlantic swell,
and it fell back broken, seemed perfectly
fresh and new as seen from another point of
view.

At last Harry, after trying two or three
times more to start a conversation, said
shortly —

Well, this is my last day at home, and 1
think I ought to say, * Thank goodness ! ' This
is coming out for a pleasant sail, and having
to row back like a galley-slave ! Oh, I beg
your pardon, ladies ! All my mistake. I am
highly complimented. All this gloominess is
because I am going away."

He received such a look of reproach that
he uttered an angry ejaculation and began to
pull so hard that Leslie had to second his
movement to keep the boat's head straight
for the harbour, whose farther point soon after
came in sight, with two fio-ures on the rocks
at the end.

VOL. I. B

"Papa along with Uncle Luke," said Louise
softly.

Ell ? " said Harry sharply ; " the old man
still fishing ? "

Yes," said Louise rather coldly ; " and,
Maddy, dear, is not that Mr. Van Heldre ? "

Madelaine shaded her eyes from the
western sun, where it was sinking fast, and
nodded.

Where shall we land you ? " said Harry
sulkily now, " at the point, or will you go up
the harbour '? "

"If there is not too much sea on, at the
point," said Louise gravely.

Oh, I dare say we can manage that without
wetting your plumes," said the young
man contemptuously ; and after another ten
minutes' pulling they reached the harbour
mouth and made for the point, where Uncle
Luke stood leaning on his rod watching the
coming boat, in company with a tall gray man
with refined features, who had taken off the
straw hat he wore to let the breeze play
through his closely cut hair, while from time
to time he turned to speak either to Uncle
Luke or to the short thick-set man who,
with his pointed white moustache and closely
clipped peaked beard, looked in his loose

holland blouse like a French officer taking
Lis vacation at the sea-side.

'' Mind how you come," said the latter ina
sharp, decided way. '' AVatch your time,
Leslie. Back in, my lace. Can you manage
it, girls ? "

Oh, yes," they cried confidently.

'' Sit still then till the boat's close in, then
one at a time. You first, my dear."

This to Louise, as he stepped actively down,
the granite rocks to a narrow natural shelf,
which was now bare, now several inches deep
in water.

"If we manage it cleverly wee can get you
ashore without a wetting."

The warnings were necessary, for the tide
ran fast, and the Atlantic swell made the boat
rise and fall, smooth as the surface was.

Now then," cried the French-looking gentleman,
giving his orders as if he were an officer
in command, " easy, Harry Vine ; back a little,
j\Ir. Leslie. Be ready, Louie, my dear. That's
it ; a little more. I have you. Bravo ! "

The words came slowly, and with the latter
there was a little action ; as he took the hands
outstretched to him, when the boat nearly
grazed the rock, there was a light spring, the
girl was on the narrow shelf, and the boat,

E 2

in answer to a touch of the oars, was half a
dozen yards away, rising and falling on the
swell.

Give me your hand, my dear," said the
tall gray gentleman, leaning down.

Oh, I can manage, papa," she cried, and
the next moment she was by his side. Looking
back, " Thank you, Mr. Van Heldre," she
said.

Eh ? All right, my child. Now, Maddy.
Steady, my lads. Mind that ledge ; don't get
her under there. Bravo ! that's right. Now,
my girl. Well done ! "

Madelaine leaped to his side, and was in
turn assisted to the top, she accepting the tall
gentleman's help, while Uncle Luke, with his
hands resting on his rod, which he held with
the butt on the rock, stood grimly looking
down at the boat.

I think I'll land here," said Leslie. '' You
don't want my help with the boat."

Oh, no ; we can manage," said Harry
sourly ; and Leslie gave up his oar and
leaped on to the rock as the boat was again
backed in.

*' That chap looks quite green," said Uncle
Luke with a sneering laugh. *' Our London
friend been poorly, Louie ? "

Before site could answer the tall gentleman
cried to those in the boat —

Don't be long, my boy. Tea will be
waiting."

'•' All right, dad. Lay hold of this oar, Vic,
and let's get her moored."

Why, you're wet, Mr. Leslie," said the tall
gentleman, shaking hands.

'•' Only sea water, sir. It's nothing."

But," said the former speaker, looking
quickly from one to the other, and his handsome,
thoughtful face seemed troubled, " has
there been anything wrong ? "

"Harry fell in," said Louise, speaking
rather quickly and excitedly ; " and Mr.
Leslie "

'"'Ah!" ejaculated the tall gentleman excitedly.


It was nothing, sir," said Leslie hastily.
He swam in among the rocks — into a cave,
and he was a long time gone, and I went after
him ; that's all."

'•' But, my dear boy, you must make haste
and change your things."

I shall not hurt, Mr. Vine."

x\nd — and — look here. Make haste aud
come on then to us. There will be a meal
ready. It's Harry's last day at home."

'' Oh, thank you, Mr. Vine ; I don't think
I'll come to-night."

*' But you have been one of the party sofar,
and I should — Louie, my dear "

"We shall be very glad if you will come,
Mr. Leslie," said Louise, in response to her
father's hesitating words and look, and there
was a calm, ingenuous invitation in her words
that made the young man's heart throb.

I, too, shall be very glad," he said
quietly.

"That's right, that's right," said Mr. Vine,
laying one of his long thin white hands on
the young man's arm ; and then changing its
position, so that he could take hold of one
of the buttons on his breast. Then turnings
quickly : " Madelaine's coming, of course."

Louie says so," said the girl quietly.

To be sure ; that's right, my dear ; that's
right," said the old man, beaming upon her ashe
took one of her hands to hold and pat it in
his. " You'll come too. Van ? "

I ? No, no. I've some bills of lading to
look over."

"Yah!" ejaculated Uncle Luke with a
snarl.

Yes ; bills of lading, you idle old cynic.
I can't spend my time fishing."

Pity you can't," said Uncle Luke. " Money,
money, always money."

Hear him, Mr. Leslie ? " said Van Heldre
smiling. " Are you disposed to follow his
teachings ? "

I'm afraid not," said Leslie.
Not he," snarled Uncle Luke.
But you will come, Van ? " said Mr. Vine.
*^My dear fellow, I wish you would not
tempt me. There's work to do. Then there's
my wife."

Bring Mrs. Van Heldre too," said Louise,
laying her hand on his.

Ah, you temptress," he cried merrily.
It's Harry's last evening," said Mr. Vine.
Look here," said Van Heldre, " will you
sinof me mv old favourite if I come, Louie ? "
Yes ; and you shall have a duet too."
'^ Ah, never mind the duet," said Van Heldre
laughingly ; "I can always hear Maddy at
home. There, out of pocket again by listening
to temptation. I'll come."

'come and join us too, Luke," said Mr.
Vine.

No ! " snapped the old fisher.
Do, uncle," said Louise.
Shan't," he snarled, stooping to pick up
his heavy basket.

But it's Harry's last "

Good job too," snarled the old man.

*' I'm going your way, Mr. Luke Vine," said
Leslie. " Let me carry the basket."

Thank ye ; I'm not above carrying my
own fish," said the old man sharply ; and he
raised and gave the basket a swing to get it
upon his back, but tottered with the weight,
and nearly fell on the uneven rocks.

There, it is too heavy for you," said Leslie,
taking possession of the basket firmly ; and
Louise Vine's eyes brightened.

Be too heavy for you when you get as old
as I am," snarled the old man.

I dare say," said Leslie quietly ; and they
went ofi* together.

Luke's in fine form this afternoon," said
Van Heldre, nodding and smiling.

Yes," said the brother, looking after him
wistfully. "We shall wait till you come,
Mr. Leslie," he shouted, giving vent to an
after-thought.

The young man turned and waved his
hand.

"Father like Leslie," said Van Heldre.
"Maddy, you'll have to set your cap at
him."

Madelaine looked up at him and laughed.

Yes, poor Luke ! " said Mr. Vine thoughtfully,
as he stooped and picked up a small net
and a tin can, containing the treasures he had
found in sundry rock pools. " I'm afraid weare
a very strange family, Van," he added, as
they walked back towards the little town.

"Very, old fellow," said his friend, smiling.
I'll be with you before Leslie gets back, wife
and the necessary change of dress permitting."

A THUNDERBOLT.

George Vine, gentleman, as he was set
down in the parish books and the West-country
directory, lived in a handsome old
granite-built residence that he had taken years
before, when, in obedience to his sister's wish,
he had retired from the silk trade a wealthy
man. But there he had joined issue with the
lady in question, obstinately refusing to make
France his home, and selecting the house
above named in the old Cornish ]sort for two
reasons : one, to be near his old friend Godfrey
Van Heldre, a well-to-do merchant who carried
on rather a mixed business, dealing largely in
pilchards, which he sent in his own ships to
the Italian ports, trading in return in such
produce of the Levant as oranges, olives, and
dried fruit ; the other, so that he could devote
himself to the branch of natural history, upon
which he had grown to be an authority so

great that his work upon the Actiniadgs of our
coast was looked forward to with no little
expectation by a good many people, in addition
to those who wrote F.Z.S. at the end of
their names.

The pleasant social meal known as high
tea was spread in the long low oak-panelled
dining-room, whose very wide bay window
looked right over the town from its shelf upon
the huge granite cliffs, and far away westward
from whence came the gales which beat upon
the old mansion, whose granite sides and
gables had turned them off for the past two
hundred years.

It was a handsomely furnished room,
thoroughly English, and vet with a suggestion
of French in the paintings of courtly-looking
folk, which decorated the panels above the old
oak sideboard and dressers, upon which stood
handsome old chased cups, flagons and salvers
battered and scratched, but rich and glistening
old silver all the same, and looking as if the
dents and scratches were only the natural
puckers and furrows such venerable pieces of
plate should possess.

There was another suggestion of the foreign
element, too, in the glazing of the deeply
embayed window, for right across and between

all the mullions, the leaden lattice panes gave
place, about two-thirds of the way up, to a
series of artistically painted armorial bearings
in stained glass, shields and helmets with
their crests and supporters, and beneath the
scutcheon in the middle, a ribbon with triple
curve and fold bearing the words Boy et Foy,

The furniture had been selected to be
thoroughly in keeping with the antiquity of
the mansion, and the old oak chairs and so
much of the table as could be seen for the
long fine white linen cloth was of the oldest
and darkest oak.

The table was spread with the abundant
fare dear to West-country folk; fruit and
flowers gave colour, and the thick yellow
cream and white sugar were piled high in
silver bowls. The great tea urn was hissing
upon its stand, the visitors had arrived, and
the host was dividing his time between fidgeting
to and fro from the door to Van Heldre,
who was leaning up against one of the mullions
of the great bay window talking to Leslie upon
subjects paramount in Cornwall — fish and the
yielding of the mines.

The young people were standing about
talking, Louise with her hand resting on the
chair where sat a pleasant-looking, rosy little

woman with abundant white hair, and her
listened hands crossed over the waist of her
purple velvet gown enriched with good French
lace.

"Margaret Vine's keeping us waiting a longtime
this evening," she said.

Mamma ! " said Madelaine reproachfully.

•'•' AVell. my dear, it's the simple truth.
And so you go back to business tomorrow,
Harry ? "

Yes, Mrs. Van Heldre. Slave again."

"Nonsense, my boy. Work's good for
every one. I'm sure your friend, Mr. Pradelle,
thinks so," she continued, appealing to that
gentleman.

Well," he said, with an unpleasant laugh,
nobody left me a fortune, so I'm obliged to
say yes."

Ah, here she is ! " said Mr. Vine, with a
sigh of relief, as the door opened, and with
almost theatrical effect a rather little sharp-looking
woman of about sixty entered, gazing
quickly round and pausing just within the
room to make an extremely formal old-fashioned
courtesy — sinking nearly to the ground as if
she were a telescopic figure disappearing into
the folds of the stiff rich brocade silk dress, of
a wonderful pattern of pink and green, and

cut in a fashion probably popular at Versailles
a hundred years ago. She did not wear
powder, but her white hair turned up and
piled upon her head after the fashion of that
blooming period, produced the same effect ;
and as she gave the fan she held a twitch
which spread it open with a loud rattling
noise, she seemed, with her haughty carriage,
handsome aquiline face with long chin, that
appeared to have formed the pattern for her
stomacher, like one of the paintings on the
panelled wall suddenly come to life, and feeling
strange at finding herself among that
modern company.

I hope you have not waited for me," she
said, smiling and speaking in a high-pitched
musical voice. '' Louise, my child, you should
not. Ah ! " she continued, raising her gold-rammed
eye-glass to her thin arched nose and
dropping it directly, " Mrs. Van Heldre, Mr.
Van Heldre, pray be seated. Mr. Victor
Pradelle, will you be so good ? "

The young man had gone through the performance
several times before, and he was in
waiting ready to take the tips of the gloved
fingers extended to him, and walking over the
thick Turkey carpet with the lady to the
other end of the room in a way that seemed

to endow hai with a court suit aud a sword,
and suggested the probability of the couple
continuing their deportment walk to the
polished oak boards beyond the carpet, and
then after sundry bows and courtesies going
through the steps of the minuet che la cour.

As a matter of fact, Praclelle led the old
girl, as he called her, to the seat she occupied
at the end of the table, when she condescended
to leave her room ; the rest of the company
took their seats, and the meal began.

Harry had tried to ensconce himself beside
Madelaine, but that young lady had made a
sign to Duncan Leslie, who eagerly took the
chair beside her, one which he coveted, for it
was between her and Louise, now busy with
the tea-tray ; and in a sulky manner, Harry
obeyed the motion of the elderly lady's fan.

"That's right, Henri, mou cher'' she said,
smiling, " come and sit by me. I shall miss
you so, my darling, when you are gone back
to that horrible London, and that wretched
business."

"' Don't, don't, don't, Margaret, my dear,"
said Mr. Vine, good-humouredly. " You will
make him unhappy at having to leave home."

I hope so, George," said the lady with
dignity, and pronouncing his Christian name

with the softness peculiar to the French
tongue ; " and," she added with a smile,
especially as we have company, will you
oblige me — Marguerite, if you please ? "

*' Certainly, certainly, my dear."

'' Is that Miss Van Heldre ? " said the lady,
raising her glass once more. "I beg your
pardon, my child; I hope you are well."

*' Quite well, thank you, Miss Marguerite
Vine," said Madelaine quietly, and her bright
young face looked perfectly calm, though there
was a touch of sarcasm in her tone.

Louise, dearest, my tea a little sweeter,
please."

The meal progressed, and the stiffness produced
by the enlree of the host's sister — it
was her own term for her appearance — soon
wore off, the lady being very quiet as she
discussed the viands placed before her with
a very excellent appetite. Mrs. Van Heldre
prattled pleasantly on, with plenty of homely
common-sense, to her host. Van Heldre threw
in a word now and then, joked Louise and his
daughter, and made a wrinkle on his broad
forehead, which was his way of making a note.

The note he made was that a suspicion
which had previously entered his brain was
correct.

He's taken with her," he said to himself,
as he glanced at Louise and then at Duncan
Leslie, who seemed to be living in a dream.
As a rule he was an energetic, quick, and
sensible man ; on this occasion he was particularly
silent, and when he spoke to either
Madelaine or Louise, it was in a softened
voice.

Van Heldre looked at his daughter.

Madelaine looked at her father, and they
thoroughly read each other's thoughts, the
girl's bright gray eyes sang to him as
plainly as could be —

"You are quite right."

'•' Well," said Van Heldre to himself, as he
placed a spoonful of black currant jam on his
plate, and then over that two piled-up tablespoonfuls
of clotted cream — "she's as nice and
true-hearted a girl as ever stepped, and Leslie's
a man, every inch of him. I'd have said j/es
in a moment if he had wanted my girl. I'm
glad of it ; but, poor fellow, what hell have to
suffer from that terrible old woman ! "

He had just thought this, and was busy
composing a nocturne or a cliurne — probably
the latter from its tints of red and yellow —
upon his plate, which flowed with jam and
cream, when Aunt Marguerite, who had eaten

YOL. I. F

all she wished, began to stir her tea with
courtly grace, and raised her voice in continuation
of something she had been saying,
but it was twenty-four hours before.

'eyes, Mr. Pradelle," she said, so that
every one should hear ; " my memories of the
past are painful, and yet a delight. We old
Huguenots are proud of our past."

"You must be, madam."

*' And you too," said the lady. " I feel sure
that if you will take the trouble you will find
that I am right. The Prattles must have
been of our people."

I'll look into it as soon as I get back to
town," said the young man.

Harry gave him a very vulgar wink.

"Do," said Aunt Marguerite. "By the
way, I don't think I told you that though my
brother persists in calling himself Vine, our
name is Des Vignes, and we belong to one of
the oldest families in Auvergne."

"Yes, that's right, Mr. Pradelle," said the
host, nodding pleasantly ; " but when a
cruel persecution drove us over here, and old
England held out her arms to us, and we
found a kindly welcome "

"My dear George!" interposed Aunt
Marguerite.

'■' Let me finish, my clear," said Mr. Vine,
good-temperedly. '• It's Mr. Pradelle's last
evening here.'

'•' For the present, George, for the present."

'•'Ah, yes, of course, for the present, and I
should like him to hear my version too."

Aunt Marguerite tapped the back of her left
hind with her fan impatiently.

•'•AVe found here a hearty welcome and a
home," continued Mr. Vine, '" and we said
we can never — we will never — return to the
land of fire and the sword ; and then we,
some of us poor, some of us well-to-do,
settled down amono- our English brothers,
and thanked God that in this new Land of
Canaan we had found rest."

'•' And my dear Mr. Pradelle," began Aunt
Marguerite, hastily ; but Mr. Vine was started,
and he talked od.

'"'In time we determined to be, in spite of
our French descent, English of the English,
for our children's sake, and we worked with
them, and traded with them ; and, to show
our faith in them, and to avoid all further
connection and military service in the country
we had left, we even anglicized our names.
My people became Vines ; the D'Aubigueys,
Aubrey or Dobbs; the Boileau, Drinkwater;

F 2

the Guineas, Guppy. Vulgarizing our names,
some people say ; but never mind, we found
rest, prosperity, and peace."

'quite right, Mr. Pradelle," said Van
Heldre, "and in spite of my name and my
Huguenot descent, I say, thank Heaven I am
now an Englishman.'

"No, no, no, no, Mr. Van Heldre," said
Aunt Marguerite, throwing herself back, and
looking at him with a pitying smile. " You
cannot prove your Huguenot descent."

"Won't contradict you, ma'am," said Van
Heldre. " Capital jam this, Louise."

You must be of Dutch descent," said Aunt
Marguerite.

"I went carefully over my father's pedigree.
Miss Marguerite," said Madelaine quietly.

Indeed, my child ? " said the lady, raising
her brows.

"And I found without doubt that the
Venelttes fled during the persecutions to
Holland, where they stayed for half a century,
and changed their names to Van Heldre
before coming to England."

Quite right," said Van Heldre in a low
voice. " Capital cream."

Ah, yes," said Aunt Margaret ; " but, my
dear child, such papers are often deceptive."

Yes," said Van Hekire, smiling, " often
enough ; so are traditions and many of our
beliefs about ancestry ; but I hope I have
enough of what you call the haute noblesse
in me to give way, and not attempt to argue
the point"'

No, Mr. Van Heldre," said Aunt Margaret,
with a smile of pity and good-humoured contempt
; " we have often argued together upon
this question, but I cannot sit in silence and
hear you persist in that which is not true.
No ; you have not any Huguenot blood in
your veins."

My dear madam, I feel at times plethoric
enough to wish that the old-fashioned idea of
being blooded in the spring were still in vogue.
I have so much Huguenot blood in my veins,
that I should be glad to have less."

Aunt Margaret shook her head, and tightened
her lips.

Low Dutch," she said to herself, " Low
Dutch."

Van Heldre read her thoughts in the movement
of her lips.

"Don't much matter," he said. "Vine, old
fellow, think I shall turn over a new leaf."

"Eh? New leaf?"

Yes ; get a good piece of marsh, make a

dam to keep out the sea, and take to keeping
cows. What capital cream ! "

Yes, Mr. Pradelle,'' continued Aunt Margaret
; " we are Huguenots of the Huguenots,
and it is the dream of my life that Henri
should assert his right to the title his father
repudiates, and become Comte des Vignes."

"Ah!"saidPradelle.

'vigorous steps have only to be taken to
wrest the family estates in Auvergne from the
usurpers who hold them. I have long fought
for this, but so far, I grieve to say, vainly.
My brother here has mistaken notions about
the respectability of trade, and is content to
vegetate."

Oh, you miserable old vegetable ! " said
Van Heldre to himself, as he gave his friend a
droll look, and shook his head.

To vegetate in this out-of-the-way place
when he should be watching over the welfare
of his country, and as a nobleman of that
land, striving to stem the tide of democracy.
He will not do it ; but if I live my nephew
Henri shall, as soon as he can be rescued
from the degrading influence of trade, and the
clerk's stool in an office. Ah, my poor boy, I
pity you, and I say out boldly that I am not
surprised that you should have thrown up

post after post in disgust, and refused to settle
down to such sordid wretchedness."

■' My dear Marguerite ! our visitors."

'• I must speak, George. Mr. Van Heldre
loves trade."

'''' I do, ma'am."

'•' Therefore he cannot feel with me"'

AVell, never mind, my dear. Let someone
else be Count des Vignes, only let me
be in peace, and don't fill poor Harry's head
with that stuff just before he's leaving home
to go up to the great city, where he will, I am
sure, redeem the follies of the past, and prove
himself a true man. Harry, my dear boy,
we'll respect Aunt Margaret's opinions; but
we will not follow them out. Van, old fellow,
Leslie, Mr. Pradelie, a glass of wine. We'll
drink Harry's health. All filled ? That's right.
Harry, my boy, a true honest man is nature's
nobleman. God speed you, my boy ; and His
blessing be upon all your works. Health and
happiness to you, my son ! "

Amen," said Van Heldre ; and the simple
old-fashioned health was drunk.

•'•'Eh, what's that — letters?" said Vine, asa
servant entered the room and handed her
master three.

For you, Mr. Pradelie ; for you, Harry,

and for me. May we open them, Mrs. Van
Heldre ? They may be important."

Of course, Mr. Vine, of course."

Pradelle opened his, glanced at it, and
thrust it into his pocket.

Harry did likewise.

Mr. Vine read his twice, then dropped it
upon the table.

'' Papa ! — father ! " cried Louise, starting
from her place, and running round to him ashe
stood up with a fierce angry light in his
eyes, and the table was in confusion.

Tidings at last of the French estates, Mr.
Pradelle," whispered Aunt Margaret.

"Papa, is anything wrong? Is it bad
news ? " cried Louise.

*' Wrong ! Bad news ! " he cried, flashing
up from the quiet student to the stern man,
stung to the quick by the announcement he
had just received. "Van Heldre, old friend,
you know how I strove among our connections
and friends to place him where he might work
and rise and prove himself my son."

Yes, yes, old fellow, but be calm."

"Father, hush!" whispered Louise, as she
glanced at Leslie's sympathetic countenance.
Hush ! Be calm ! "

How can I be calm ? " cried the old man

fiercely. " The Des Vignes ! The family
estates ! The title ! You hear this, Margaret.
Here is a fine opportunity for the search to be
made — the old castle and the vineyards to be
rescued from the occupiers."

'george — brother, what do you mean?"
cried the old lady indignantly, and she laid
her hand upon her nephew's shoulder, as he
sat gazing straight down before him at his
plate.

'•' What do I mean ? " cried the indignant
father, tossing the letter towards her. '' I
mean that my son is once more dismissed
from his situation in disgrace."

POISON AND ANTIDOTE.

Now, sir, have the goodness to tell me
what you mean to do."

Harry Vine looked at his father, thrust his
hands low down into his jDoekets, leaned back
against the mantelpiece, and was silent.

Vine senior leaned over a shallow hiss jar,
with a thin splinter of wood in his hand, upon
which he had just impaled a small fragment of
raw, minced periwinkle, and this he thrust
down to where a gorgeous sea-anemone sat
spread open upon a piece of rock — chipped
from out of one of the caverns on the coast.

The anemone's tentacles bristled all around,
giving the creature the aspect of a great flower;
and down among these the scrap of food was
thrust till it touched them, when the tentacles
began to curve over, and draw the scrap of
shell-fish down toward the large central mouth,
in which it soon began to disappear.

Vine senior looked up.

I have done everything I could for you in
the way of education. I have, I am sure, been
a most kind and indulgent father. You have
had a liberal supply of money, and by the
exercise of my own and the personal interest
of friends, I have obtained for you posts
among our people, any one of which was the
beginning of prosperity and position, such as a
youth should have been proud to win."

But they were so unsuitable, father. All
connected with trade."

Shame, Harry ! As if there was anything
undignified in trade. No matter whether it
be trade or profession by which a man honestly
earns his subsistence, it is an honourable
career. And yet five times over you have
been thrown back on my hands in disgrace."

Well, I can't help it, father ; I've done
my best."

"Your best !" cried Vine senior, taking up
a o[lass rod, and stirring the water in another
glass jar. "It is not true."

But it's so absurd. You're a rich man."

'• If I were ten times as well off, I would
not have you waste your life in idleness. You
are not twenty-four, and I am determined
that you shall take some post. I have seen

too much of what follows when a restless, idle
young man sits down to wait for his father's
money. There, I am busy now. Go and
think over what I have said. You must and
shall do something:. It is now a month since
I received that letter. What is j\Ir. Pradelle
doing: down here ao^ain ? "

O CD

'' Come for a change, as any other gentleman
would."

Gentleman ? "

"Well, he has a little income of his own,
I suppose. If I've been unlucky that's no
reason why I should throw over my friends."

The father looked at the son in a perplexed
way, and then fed another sea-anemone, Harry
looking on contemptuously.

Well, sir, you have heard what I said. Go
and think it over."

"Yes, father."

The young man left the business-like study,
and encountered his sister in the hall.

Well, Harry ? "

Well, Lou."

*' What does papa say ? "

The old story. I'm to go back to drudgery.
I think I shall enlist."

For shame ! and you professing to care as
you do for Madelaine."

So I do. I Tutorship her."

"Then prove it by exerting yourself in the
way papa wishes. I wonder yon have not
more spirit"'

'■' And I wonder you have not more decency
towards my friends."

Louise coloured slio-htlv.

'•' Here you profess to believe in my going
into trade and drudging behind a counter."

'•'I did not know that a counter had ever
been in Question, Harry," said his sister sarcastically.


'•' Well, a clerk's desk ; it's all the same. I
believe you would like to see me selling tea
and sugar."

'' I don't think I should mind."

'•'Xo; that's it. I'm to be dish-raced while
you are so much of the fine lady that you look
down on, and quite insult, my friend Pradelle."

Aunt Margaret wishes to speak to you,
dear'' said Louise gravely. '' I promised to
tell you as soon as you left the study."

"Then hang it all! why didn't you tell
me ? Couldn't resist a chance for a lecture.
There's only one body here who understands
me, and that's aunt. Why even Madelaine's
turnings against me now, and I believe it is all
your doing."

I have done nothing but what is for your
good, Harry."

Then you own to it ? You have been
talking to Maddy ? "

She came and confided in me, and I believe
I spoke the truth."

Yes, I knew it ! " cried Harry warmly.
Then look here, my lady, I'm not blind. Fve
petted you and been the best of brothers, but
if you turn against me I shall turn against
you.

Harry dear ! "

Ah, that startles you, does it ? Then I
shall tell the truth, and I'll back up Aunt
Margaret through thick and thin."
*' What do you mean 1 "
What Aunt Margaret says. That long
Scotch copper-miner is no match for you."
Harry ! "

'' And I shall tell him this, if he comes
hanging' about here where he sees he is not
wanted, and stands in the way of a gentleman
of good French Huguenot descent, I'll
horsewhip him. There ! "

He turned on his heel, and bounded up the
old staircase three steps at a time.

Oh ! " ejaculated Louise, as she stood till
she heard a sharp tap at her aunt's door and

her brother enter, and close it after him.
'"'Mr. Pradelle, too, of all people ia the
world ; "

'•' Ah, my darling," cried Aunt Margaret,
looking up from the tambour-frame and
smoothing out the fields of her antique
flowered peignoir. '•' Bring that stool, and
come and sit down."

Harry bent down and kissed her rather
sulkily. Then in a half-contemptuous way
he fetched the said stool, embroidered by the
lady herself, and placed it at her feet.

Sit down, my dear."

Harry lowered himself into a very uncomfortable
position, while Aunt Margaret placed
one arm about his neck, struck a graceful
pose, and began to smooth over the young
man's already too smooth hair.

'^I want to have another very serious talk
with you, my boy," she said. '' Ah, yes," she
continued, raising; his chin and looking' down
in his disgusted face : " how every lineament
shows your descent ! "

'•' I say, aunt, I've just brushed my hair."

Yes, dear, but you should not hide your
forehead. It is the brow of the Des Ignes."

'•' Oh, all right, auntie, have it your own
way. But, I say, have you got any money ?

*' Alas ! no, my boy."

I don't mean now. I mean haven't you
really got any to leave me in your will ? "

There was a far-off look in Aunt Margaret's
eyes as she slowly shook her head.

*' You will leave me what you have,
aunt ? "

If I had hundreds of thousands, you should
have all, Henri ; but, alas, I have none. I
had property once."

What became of it ? "

'' Well, my dear, it is a long story and a
sad one. I could not tell it to you even in
brief, but you are a man now, and must know
the meaning of the word love."

Oh, yes, I know what that means ; but I
say, don't fidget my hair about so."

I could not tell you all, Henri. It was
thirty years ago. He was a French gentleman
of noble descent. His estates had been
confiscated, and I was only too glad to place
my little fortune at his disposal to recover
them."

'' And did he ? "

No, my dear. Those were terrible times.
He lost all ; and with true nobility, he wrote
to me that he loved me too well to drag me
down to poverty — to share his lot as an exile.

I have never seen him since. But I would
have shared his lot."

•'• Humph ! Lost it ? Then if I had money
and tried for our family estates, I might lose
it too."

'' No, no, my boy ; you would be certain to
win. Did you do what I told you ? "

'•' Yes, aunt ; but I can't use them down
here''

•'Let me look, my dear; and I do not see
why not. You must be bold ; and proud of
your descent."

'•' But they'd laugh."

•'•' Let them," said Aunt Margaret grandly.
^•' By and by they will bow down. Let me
see.'

The young man took a card-case from his
pocket, on which was stamped in gold a
French count's coronet.

Ah ! yes ; that is right," said the old
lady, snatching the case with trembling fingers,
opening it, and taking out a card on which
was also printed a coronet. " Conte Henri des
Vines' she read, in an excited manner, and
with tears in her eyes. '"' My darling boy ! "

Cost a precious lot, aunt ; made a regular
hole in your diamond ring."

•' Did you sell it ? "

VuL. I. • G

'' No ; Vic Pradelle pawned it for me."

Ah ! lie is a friend of whom you may be
proud, Henri."

Not a bad sort of fellow, aunt. He got
precious little on the ring, though, and I spent
it nearly all."

Never mind the ring, my boy, and I'm
very glad you have the cards. Now for a
little serious talk about the future."

Wish to goodness there was no future," said
Harry glumly.

Would you like to talk about the past,
then "? " said the old lady playfully.

'' Lavish there was no past neither," grumbled
Harry.

Then we will talk about the present, my
dear, and about — let me whisper to you —
love ! "

She placed her thin lips close to her nephew's
ear, and then held him at arm's length and
smiled upon him proudly.

Love ! Too expensive a luxury for me,
auntie. I say, you are ruffling my hair
so.'^

Too expensive, Henri ? No, my darling
boy ; follow my advice, and the richest and
fairest of the daughters of France shall sue
for your hand."

'•' I say, auntie," he said laughingly, *' aren't
you laying on the colour rather thick ? "

Xot a bit, my darling ; and that's why
I want to talk to you about your sister's
friend."

'•' AVhat, Maddy ? " he said eagerly; "then
you approve of it."

"Approve! Pah! you are jesting, my
dear. I approve of your making an alliance
with a fat Dutch fraulein ! "

Oh. come, aunt ! " said Harrv, looking
nettled ; " Madelaine is not Dutch, nor yet
fat."

I know better, my boy. Dutch ! Dutch I
Dutch ! Look at her father and her mother !
Xo, mv Loy, you could not make an alliance
with a girl like that. She might do for a
kitchen-maid."

"auntie!"

'•' Silly boy ! "

And she'll be rich some day."

If she were heiress to millions she could
not marry you. As some writer says, eagles
do not mate with plump Dutch ducklings. No,
Henri, my boy, you must wait."

Harry frowned.

"That is a boyish piece of nonsense, unworthy
the Comte des Yignes, my dear boy.

G 2

But tell me — you have been with your father
what does he say now ? "

The old story. I must go to work."

Poor George ! " sighed Aunt Margaret ;
always so sordid in his ideas in early life :
now that he is wealthy so utterly wanting
in aspirations ! Always dallying over some
miserable shrimp. He has no more ambition
than one of those silly fish over which lie
sits and dreams. Oh, Henri, my boy, when
I look back at what our family has been —
right back into the distant ao;es of French
history — valorous knights and noble ladies ;
and later on, how they graced the court
at banquet and at ball, I weep the salt
tears of misery to see my brother sink so
low."

'" Ah ! well, it's of no use, aunt. I must
go and turn somebody's grindstone again."

No, Henri, it shall not be," cried the old
lady, with flashing eyes. '' We must think ;
we must plot and plan."

If you please, ma'am, I've brought your
lunch," said a voice ; and Liza, the maid, who
bore a strong resemblance to the fish-woman
who had accosted Uncle Luke at the mouth
of the harbour, set down a delicately-cooked
cutlet and bit of fish, all spread on a snowy

napkin, with the accompaniments of plate,
glass, and a decanter of sherry.

Ah ! yes, my lunch," said Aunt Margaret,
with a sigh. 'ego, and think over what I
have said, my dear, and we will talk again
another time."

All right, auntie," said the young man,
rising slowly ; " but it seems to me as if the
best thing I could do would be to jump into
the sea."

"No, no, Henri," said Aunt Margaret,
taking up a silver spoon and shaking it
slowly at her nephew, " a Des Yignes was
ready with his sword in defence of his honour,
and to advance his master's cause ; but
he never dreamed of taking his own life.
That, my dear, would be the act of one of
the low-born canaille, Remember who you
are, and wait. I am working for you, and
you shall triumph yet. Consult your
friend."

Sometimes I think it's all gammon," said
Harry, as he went slowly down-stairs, and
out into the garden, " and sometimes it seems
as if it would be very jolly. I dare say the
old woman is right, and "

What are you talking about — muttering
aside like the wicked man on the stage ? "

'hullo, Vic! You there?"

"Yes, dear boy. I'm. here for want of
somewhere better."

Consult your friend ! " Aunt Margaret's
last words.

Been having a cigar ? "

I've been hangings about here this last
hour. How is it she hasn't been for a
walk?"

Louie ? Don't know. Here, let's go down
under the cliff, and have a talk over a pipe."

'the latter, if you like; never mind the
former. Yes, I will ; for I want a few words
of a sort."

What about ? " said Harry, as they strolled
away.

"Everything. Look here, old fellow ; we've
been the best of chums ever since you shared
my desk."

Yes, and you shared my allowance."

Well chums always do. Then I came
down with you, and it was all as jolly as
could be, and I was making way fast, in
spite of that confounded red-headed porridge-eating
fellow. Then came that upset, and I
went away. Then you wrote to me in answer
to my letter about having a good thing on,
and said ' Come down.' "

And you came," said Harry thoughtfully,
"and the good tliino- turned out a bad thin or
as every one does that I join in."

Well, that was an accident ; speculators
must have some crust as well as crumb."

"But I get all crust."

No, I seem to be g;ettinor all crust now
from your people. Your aunt's right enough,
but your father casts his cold shoulder and
stale bread at me whenever we meet ; and
as for a certain lady, she regularly cut me
yesterday."

"AVell, I can't help that, Vic. You know
what I said when you told me you were on
that. I said that I couldn't do anything,
and that I wouldn't do anything if I could ;
but that I wouldn't stand in your way if you
liked to try."

Yes, I know what you said," grumbled
Pradelle, as they strolled down to the shore,
went round the rocks, and then strolled on
over and among-st the shingle and sand, till —
a suitable spot presenting itself, about half a
mile from the town — they sat down on the
soft sand, tilted their hats over their eyes,
leaned their backs against a huge stone, and
then lit up and began to smoke.

You see it's like this," said Pradelle ;

'' I know I'm not much of a catch, but I like
her, and that ought to make up for a great
deal."

"Yes."

'' She don't know her own mind, that's
about it," continued Pradelle ; "and a word
from you might do a deal."

"Got any money, Vic ? "

Now there's a mean sort of a question to
ask a friend ! Have I got any money ? As
if a man must be made of money before he
may look at his old chum's sister."

"I wasn't thinking; about her, but of something
else," said Harry hastily.

Ah, well, I wasn't ; but look there ! "

What at ? " said Harry, whose eyes were
shut, and his thoughts far away.

Them. They're going for a walk. Why.
Hal, old chap, they saw us come down
here."

Harry started into wakefulness, and realized
the fact that his sister and Madelaine Van
Heldre were passing before them, but down
by the water's edge.

"Let's follow them," said Pradelle eagerly.

Wait a moment."

Harry waited to think, and scraps of his
aunt's remarks floated through his brain respecting

the fair daughters of France, who
would fall at the feet of the young count.

Harrv committed. The daughters of France
were no doubt very lovely, but they were
imaginative ; and though Madelaine Van 
might, as his aunt said, not be of the
pure Huguenot blood, still that fact did not
seem to matter to him. For that was not
imagination before him, but the bright, natural,
clever sfirl whom he had known from childhood,
his old playfellow, who had always
seemed to supply a something wanting in his
mental organization, the air who had led him
and influenced his career.

"Bother Aunt Marguerite ! " he said too



himself, and then aloud, " Come along ! "

HARRY VINE SPEAKS PLAINLY; SO DOES HIS
FRIEND.

Louise and Madelaine went on down by
the water's edge, in profound ignorance of the
fact that they were followed at a distance of
about a couple of hundred yards.

The two friends female were then in profound
ignorance of the fact that they were
watched, so were the two friends male.

For some time past the owner of the mine
high up on the cliff had been a thoroughly
energetic man of business, but after the first
introduction to the Vine family his business
energy seemed to receive an impetus. He
was working for her, everything might be for
her.

Then came Pradelle upon the scene, and
the young Scot was not long in seeing that
the brother's London friend was also impressed,
and that his advances found favour with

Harry. AVhetber they did with the sister he
could not tell.

The consequence was that there was a good
deal of indecision on Duncan Leslie's part,
some neglect of his busy mine, and a good
deal of use of a double glass, which was supposed
to be kept in a room, half office, half
study and laboratory, for the purpose of scanning
the shipping coming into port.

On the day in question the glass was being
applied to a purpose rather reprehensible,
perhaps, but with some excuse of helping
Duncan Leslie's affair of the heart. From
his window he could see the old granite-built
house, and with interruptions, due to rocks
and doubling and jutting pieces of cliff, a
great deal of the winding and zigzag path,
half steps, which led down to the shore.

As, then, was frequently the case, the glass
was directed toward the residence of the
Vines, and Duncan Leslie saw Louise and
Madelaine go down to the sea, stand watching
the receding tide, and then go off west.

After casino; through the glass for a time
he laid it down, with his heart beating faster
than usual, as he debated within himself
whether he should go down to the shore
and follow them.

It was a hard fight, and inclination was
rapidly mastering etiquette, when two figures,
hitherto concealed, came into view from
beneath the cliff and began to follow the
ladies.

Duncan Leslie's eyes flashed as he caught
up the glass again, and after looking through
it for a few minutes he closed it and threw
it down.

I'm making a fool of myself," he said
bitterly. " Better attend to my business and
think about it no more."

The desire was upon him to focus the glass
again and watch what took place, but he
turned away with an angry ejaculation and
put the glass in its case.

I might have known better," he said,
"and it would be like playing the spy."

He strode out and went to his engine-house,
forcing himself to take an interest in what
was going on, and wishing the while that he
had not used that glass in so reprehensible a
way.

Oddly enough, just at that moment Uncle
Luke was seated outside the door of his little
cottage in its niche of the cliff' below the
mine, and wishing for this very glass.

His was a cottage of the roughest construction,

which he had bought some years before
of an old fisherman ; and his seat — he could
not afford chairs, he said — was a rough block
of granite, upon which he was very fond of
sunning himself when the weather was fine.

I've a good mind to go and ask Leslie to
lend me his hiss," muttered the old man.
** No. He'd only begin asking favours of me.
But all that ought to be stopped. Wonder
whether George knovv's. What's Van Hereabout
? As for those two girls, I'll give them
such a talking to — the gipsies ! Bah ! it's
no business of mine ! I'm not ofoiuo: to
marry."

Yes, let's sit down," said Madelaine, turning
round. " Oh ! "

What is it ? sprained your ankle \ "

No. Mr. Pradelle and Harry are close by."

'• Let's walk on quickly then, and go round
back by the fields."

But it will be six miles."

Never mind if it's sixteen," said Louise,
increasing her pace.

Hallo, girls," cried Harry, and they were
obliged to face round.

There was no warm look of welcome from
either, but Pradelle was too much of the
London man of the world to be taken aback,

and he stepped forward to Louise's side,
smiling.

'* You have chosen a delightful morning for
your walk, Miss Vine."

Yes, but we were just going back."

*' No; don't go back yet," said Harry quickly,
for he had strung himself up. *' Vic, old
fellow, walk on with my sister. I want to
have a chat with Miss Vain Heldre."

The girls exchanged frances, each seeming
to ask the other for counsel.

Then, in a quiet, decisive way, Madelaine
spoke.

Yes, do, Louie dear ; I wanted to speak to
your brother, too."

There was another quick look passing between
the friends, and then Louise bowed and
walked on, Pradelle giving Harry a short nod
which meant, according to his judgment, " It's
all right."

Louise was for keeping close to her companion,
but her brother evidently intended
her to have a tete-ci-tete encounter with his
friend, and she realized directly that Madelaine
did not second her efforts. In fact the
latter yielded at once to Harry's manoeuvres,
and hung back with him, while Pradelle
pressed forward, so that before many minutes

Lad elapsed, the couples, as they walked west,
were separated by a space of Cjuite a couple of
hundred yards.

'•' Xow T do call that good of you, Maddy,"
said Harry eagerly. " You are, aud you
always were, a dear good little thing."

Do you think so ? " she said directly, and
her pleasant bright face was now very grave.

Do I think so ! You know I do. There,
I want a good talk with you, dear. It's time
I spoke plainly, and that we fully understood
one another."

I thought we did, Harry."

Well, yes, of course, but I want to be
more plain. We're no boy and girl now."

No, Harry, we have grown up to be man
and woman."

'^ Yes, and ever since we were boy and girl,
Maddy, Tve loved you very dearly."

Madelaine turned her clear searching; eves
upon him in the most calm and untroubled
way.

Yes, Harry, you have always seemed to."

And you have always cared for me very
much' ^

Yes, Harry. Always."

Well, don't say it in such a cold, serious
wav, dear."

Bat it is a matter upon which one is bound
to be cool and very serious."

Well, yes, of course. I don't know that
people are any the better for showing a lot of
gush."

No, Harry, it is not so deep as the liking
which is calm and cool and enduring."

I repose not," said the young man very
disconcertedly. " But don't be quite so cool.
1 know you too well to think you would play
with me."

I hope I shall always be very sincere,
Harry."

Of course you will. I know you will.
We began by being playmates — almost like
brother and sister."

Yes, Harry."

"But I always felt as I grew older that I
should some day ask you to be my darling
little wife; and, come now, you always thought
so too ? "

Yes, Harry, I always thought so too."

'^ Ah, that's right, dear," said the young
man, flushing. " You always were the dearest
and most honest and plain-spoken girl I ever
met."

I try to be."

Of course ; and look yonder, there's old

Pradelle, the clearest and best friend a fellow
ever had, talking; to Louie as I'm talkiDor to
sou.

Yes, I'm afraid he is."

'afraid? Oh, come now, don't be prejudiced.
I want you to like Victor."

That would be impossible."

Impossible ! What, the man who will
most likely be Louie's husband ? "

Mr. Pradelle will never be Louie's husband."


AVhat ! "Why, how do you know ? "

Because I know your sister's heart too
well."

And you don't like Pradelle ? "

Xo, Harry ; and I'm sorry you ever chose
him for a companion."

'•' Oh, come, dear, that's prejudice and a bit
of jealousy. Well, never mind about that
now. I want to talk about ourselves."

Yes, Harry."

"I want you to promise to be my little
wife. I'm four-and-twenty, and you are
nearly tv\'enty, so it's quite time to talk
about it."

Madelaine shook her head.

'•' Oh, come ! " he said merrily, " no girl's
coyness : we are too old friends for that, and

VOL. I. K

understand one another too well. Come, dear,
when is it to be ? "

She turned and looked in the handsome
flushed face beside her, and then said in the
most cool and matter-of-fact way :

'' It is too soon to talk like that, Harry."

Too soon ? Not a bit of it. You have
told me that you will be my wife."

Some day, perhaps."

^' Oh, nonsense, dear ! I've been thinking
this all over well. You see, Maddy, you've
let my not sticking to business trouble

you."

Yes, Harry, very much."

'^ Well, I'm very sorry, dear ; and I suppose
I have been a bit to blame, but I've been
doing distasteful work, and I've been like a
boat swinging about without an anchor. I
want you to be my anchor to hold me fast.
I've wanted something to steady me — something
to work for ; and if I've got you for a
wife I shall be a different man directly."

Madelaine sighed.

Aunt Marguerite won't like it, because she
is not very fond of you."

No," said Madelaine, " she does not like
fat Dutch frauleins — Dutch dolls."

Get out ! What stuff ! She's a prejudiced

old woman full of fads. She never did like
you"'

'' Never, Harry."

'•' Well, that doesn't matter a bit."
Xo. That does not matter a bit."
You see I've had no end of thinks about
all this, and it seems to me that if we're
married at once, it will settle all the worries
and bothers I've had late] v. The governor
wants me to o-q to business assail : but what's
the use of that ? He's rich, and so is your
father, and they can easily supply us with all
that we should want, and then Ave shall be
as happy as can be. Of course I shall work
at sonit-jthing. I don't believe in a fellow with
nothing to do. You don't either ? "
'" Xo, Harry."

*' Of course not, but all that toiling and
moiling for the sake of money is a mistake.
Xever mind what Aunt Marguerite says. I'll
soon work her round, and of course I can do
what I like with the governor. He's so fond
of you that he'll be delighted, and he knows
it will do me crowd. So now there's nothing

o

to do but for me to go and see your father and
ask his consent. I did think of letting you
coax him round : but that would be cowardly,
wouldn't it ? "

H 2

Yes, Harry, very cowardly, and lower you
very much in my eyes."

'' Of course : but, 1 say, don't be so serious.
AVell, it's a bitter pill to swallow, for your
governor will be down on me tremendously.
I'll face him, though. I'll talk about our love
and all that sort of thing, and it will be all
right. I'll go to him to-day."

No, Harry," said Madelaine, looking him
full in the face, " don't do that."

'' Why ? ''

"Because it would expose you to a very
severe rebuff."

Will you speak to him then ? No : I'll
do it."

No. If you did my father would immediately
speak to me, and I should have to tell
him what I am going to tell you."

"Well? Out with it."

Do you suppose," said Madelaine, once
more turning her clear frank eyes upon the
young man, and speaking with a quiet decision
that startled him ; "do you suppose I
could be so wanting in duty to those at home,
so wanting in love to you, Harry, that I could
consent to a marriage which would only mean
fixing you permanently in your present
thoughtless ways ? "

Harvey VINE SPEAKS PLAINLY. 101

Madeline ! "

Let me finish, Harry, and tell you what has
been on my lips for months past. I am younger
by several years than you, but do you think I
am so v.-anting in worldly experience that T
am blind to your reckless folly, or the pain you
are giving father and sister by your acts ? "

*' Why, Maddy," he cried, in a voice full of
vexation, which belied the mocking; lauo;]i
upon his lips, " I didn't think you could
preach like that."

'' It is time to preach, Harry, when I see
you so lost to self-respect, and find that you
are ready to place yourself and the girl you
wish to call wife, in a dependent position, instead
of proudly and manfully making yourself
your own master."

"Well, this is pleasant! Am I to understand
that you throw me over ? "

*' Xo, Harry," said Madelaine sadly, " you
are to understand that I care for you too much
to encourage you in a weak folly."

A weak folly — to ask you what you have
always expected I should, ask ! "

'' Yes, to ask it at such a time when, after
being placed in post after post by my father's
help, and losing them one by one by your
folly, you "

Oh, come, that will do," cried the young
man angrily ; "if it's to be like this it's a
good job that we came to an explanation at
once. So this is gentle, amiable, sweet-tempered
Madelaine, eh ! Hallo ! You ! "

He turned sharply. Louise and Pradelle
had come over a stretch of sand with their
footsteps inaudible.

*' It is quite time we returned, Madelaine,"
said Louise gravely ; and without another
word the two girls walked away.

Ton my word," cried Harry with a laugh,
things are improving. Well, Vic, how did
you get on ? "

How did I get on indeed ! " cried Pradelle
angrily. "Look here, Harry vine, are you
playing square with me ? "

What do you mean ? "

What I say : are you honest, or have you
been setting her against me ? "

'why you no, I won't quarrel," cried

Harry. " What did she say to you ? "

"Say to me ? I was never so snubbed in
my life. Her ladyship doesn't know me if she
thinks I'm going to give up like that."

There, that'll do, Vic. No threats, please."

'' Oh, no ; I'm not going to threaten. I can
wait."

'' Yes," said Harry, thoughtfully ; " we chose
the wrong time. We mustn't give up, Vie ;
we shall have to wait."

And they went back to their old nook beneath
the cliff to smoke their pipes, while as
the thin blue vapour arose Harry's hot anger
grew cool, and he began to think of his aunt's
words, of Comte Henri des Yignes, and of the
fair daughters of France — a reverie from which
he was aroused by his companion, as he said
suddenly —

I say, Harry, lad, I want you to lend mea
little coin."

CHEZ VAN HELDRF,

The two friends parted at the gate, Made-lain
e refusing to go in.

No," she said ; " they will be expecting
me at home."

"Maddy dear, ought we not to confide in
each other ? "

Ah ! " exclaimed Madelaine, with a sigh of
relief that the constraint was over. " Yes,
dear. Did Mr. Pradelle propose to you ? "

'' Yes."

'' And you told him it was impossible ? "

Yes. What did my brother want to
say ? "

'' That we ought to be married now, and it
would make him abetter man."

ind you told him it was impossible ? "

Yes."

There was another sigh as if of relief on
both sides, and the two girls kissed again and
parted.

• It ^'as a brisk quarter of an hour's walk to
the Van Heres', which Lay at the end of the
main street up the valley down which the little
river ran ; and on entering the door, with a
longing upon her to go at once to her room and
sit down and cry, Madelaine uttered a sigh full
of misery, for she saw that it was impossible.

As she approached the great stone porch
leading; into the broad hall, which was one of
the most attractive-looking places in the house,
filled as it was with curiosities and other objects
brought by the various captains from the
Mediterranean, and embracing cabinets from
Constantinople with rugs and pipes, little
terra-cotta figures from Sardinia, and pictures
and pieces of statuary from Some, Naples, and
Trieste, she was saluted with —

Ah, my dear, I'm so glad you've come
back. Where's papa 1 "

'• I have not seen him, mamma."

*' Busy, I suppose. How he does work ! "
Then suddenly, ''By the way, that Mr. Prae
I don't like him, my dear."

Neither do I, mamma."

That's right, my dear ; I'm very glad to
hear you say so ; but surely Louie Vine is not
going to be beguiled by him ? "

Oh no."

"All, that's all very well; but Luke Vine
came in as he went by, to say in his sneering
fashion that Louie and Mr. Pradelle were
down on the shore, and that you were walking
some distance behind with Harry."

'' Mr. Luke Vine seems to have plenty of
time for watching his neighbours," said Madelaine
contemptuously.

Yes ; he is always noticing things ; but
don't blame him, dear. I'm sure he means
well, and I can forgive him anything for that.
Here's your father."

'' Ah ! m}^ dears," said Van Heldre cheerily.
Tired out."

You must be," said Mrs. Van Heldre,
bustling; about him to take his hat and gloves.
Here, do come and sit down."

The merchant went into the drawing-room
very readily, and submitted to several little
pleasant attentions from wife and daughter.

Evening came on with Van Heldre seated
in his easy-chair, thoughtfully watching wife
and daughter; both of whom had work in
their laps ; but Mrs. Van Heldre's was all a
pretence, for, after a few stitches, her head
began to nod forward, then back against the
cushion, and then, as if by magic, she was fast
asleep.

Madeline's needle, however, flew fast, and
she went on working, with her father watching
her attentively, till she raised her eyes.

You want to say something to me, Maddy,"
he said in a low voice.

"Yes, papa."

About your walk down on the Leach ? "

Madelaine nodded.

You know I went."

Yes ; I saw you, and Luke Vine came and
told me as well."

It was very kind of him," said Madelaine,
with a touch of sarcasm in her voice.

Kind and unkind, my dear. You see he
has no business — nothing to do but to think
of other people. But he means well, my dear,
and he likes you."

I have often thought so."

Yes ; and you were right. He warned
me that I was not to let your intimacy grow
closer ^^th his nephew."

Indeed, papa ! "

Yes, my dear. He said that I was a

well, I will not tell you what, for not stopping
it directly, for that Harry was rapidly drifting
into a bad course — that it was a hopeless case."

*' That is not the way to redeem him,
father."

No, my dear, it is not. But you were
going to say something to me ? "

Yes," said Madelaine, hesitating. Then
putting down her work she rose and went to
her father's side, knelt down, and resting her
arms upon his knees, looked straight up in his
face.

Well, Maddy ? "

^' I wanted to speak to you about Harry."

There was a slight twitching: about the merchant's
brows, but his face was calm directly,
and he said coolly —

'' What about Harry Vine ? "

Madeleine hesitated for a few moments, and
then spoke out firmly and bravely.

I have been thinking about his position,
father, and of how sad it is for him to be
wasting his days as he is down here."

*' Very sad, Maddy. He is, as Luke Vine
says, going wrong. Well ? "

I have been thinking, papa, that you might
take him into your office and give him a chance
of redeeming the past."

Nice suggestion, my dear. What would
old Crampton say ? "

Mr. Crampton could only say that you had
done a very kind act for the son of your old
friend."

"Humph! Well?"

You could easily arrange to take him, papa,
and with your firm hand over him it would do
an immense deal of good."

"Not to me."

There was a pause, and Van Held re gazed
into his child's unflinching eyes.

'•' So we are coming; at facts," he said at
last. '• Harry asked you to interfere on his
behalf?"

Madelaine shook her head and smiled.

Is this your own idea ? "

'"' Entirely."

Then what was the meaning of the walk
on the beach to-day ? "

Harry sought for it, and said that we had
been playfellows from children, that he loved
me very dearly, and he asked me to be his
wife."

The "

Van Heldre checked himself.

And what did you say ? "

That it was impossible."

Then you do not care for him ? "

Madelaine was silent.

Then you do not care for him ? "

I'm afraid I care for him very much indeed,"
said Madelaine firmly.

Let me thoroughly understand you, my
darling. You love George Vine's son — your
old friend's brother ? "

'' Yes, father," said Madelaine, in a voice
little above a whisper.

And he has asked you to be his wife ? "

Yes."

'tell me what answer you gave him."

That I would never marry a man so
wanting in self-respect."

'' Hah ! "

He said that our parents were rich, that
there was no need for him to toil as he had
done, but that if I consented it would give
him an impetus to work."

And you declined conditionally ? "

'' I declined absolutely, father."

And yet you love him ? "

'' I'm afraid I love him very dearly."

"You are a strange girl, Madelaine."

Yes, father."

'' Do you know what it means for me to take
this fellow into my office ? "

*' Much trouble and care."

'eyes. Then why should I?"

Because, as you have so often taught me,
we cannot live for ourselves alone. Because
he is the son of your very old friend."

'• Yes' said Van Helclre softly.

"Because it might save him from a downward
course now that there is, I believe, a crisis
in his life."

And because you love him, Maddy ? "

She answered with a look.

And if I were so insane, so Quixotic, as todo
all this, what guarantee have I that he would
not gradually lead you to think differently —
to consent to be his wife before he had redeemed
his character ? "

'' The trust you have in me."

Hah ! " ejaculated Van Heldre again. And
there was another loner silence.

I feel that I must plead for him, father.
You could influence him so much."

'' I'm afraid not, my child. If he has not
the manliness to do what is right for your sake,
anything I could do or say would not be of
much avail."

'•' You underrate your power, father," said
Madelaine, with a look full of pride in him.

And if I did this I might have absolute

o

confidence that matters should otq no farther
until he had completely changed ? "

"You know you might."

Hah ! " sighed Van Heldre.

'you will think this over, father ? "

There is no need, my dear."

No need ? " '

No, my child. I have for some days past
been thinking over this very thing, just in the
light in which you placed it."

'' You have ? "

Yes, and I had a long talk with George
Vine this afternoon respecting his son."

Oh, father ! "

I told him I could see that the trouble
was growing bigger and telling upon him, and
proposed that I should take Harry here."

Madelaine had started to her feet.

Presuming that he does not refuse after his
father has made my proposals known, Harry
Vine comes here daily to work."

Madelaine's arms where round her father's
neck.

"You have made me feel very happy and
satisfied, my dear, and may Heaven speed what
is going to be a very arduous task."

Just then Mrs. Van Heldre raised her head
and looked round.

Bless my heart ! " she exclaimed. " I do
believe I have nearly been to sleep."

U^X'LE LUKE SPEAKS HIS Mind.

Hallo, Scotchman ! "

'" Hallo, Eng -I mean French What

am I to call you, Mr. Luke Vine ? "

Englishman, of course."

Uncle Luke was seated, in a very shabby-looking
gray tweed Norfolk jacket made long,
a garment which suited his tastes, from its
being an easy comfortable article of attire. He
had on an old Panama hat, a good deal stained,
and had a thick stick armed with a strong iron
point useful for walking among the rocks, and
upon this staff he rested as he sat outside his
cottage door watching the sea and pondering
as to the probability of a shoal of fish being off
the point.

His home with its tiny scrap of rough walled-in
garden, which grew nothing but sea holly
and tamarisk, was desolate-looking in the
extreme, but the view therefrom of the half

VOL. I. I

natural pier sheltering the vessels in the
harbour of the twin town was glorious.

He had had his breakfast and taken his
seat out in the sunshine, when he became
aware of the fact that Duncan Leslie was
coming down from the mine buildings above,
and he hailed him with a snarl and the above
words. "

Glorious morning."

Humph ! Yes, but what's that got to do
with you ? "

Everything. Do you suppose I don't like
fine weather ? "

I thought you didn't care for anything but
money grubbing."

Then you were mistaken, because I do."

'^ Nonsense! You think of nothing but
copper, spoiling the face of nature with the
broken rubbish your men dig out of the
bowels of the earth, poisoning the air with the
fumes of those abominable furnaces. Look at
that ! "

The old man raised his stick and made
a vicious dig with it in the direction of the
mine.

Look at what ? "

'' That shaft. Looks like some huge worm
that your men disturbed down below, and sentit

crawling along the hill slope till it could rear
its abominable head in the air and look which
way to go to be at rest."

It was there when I took the mine, and it
answers its purpose."

'* Bah ! What purpose ? To make money ? "

'' Yes ; to make money. Very useful thing,
Mr. Luke."

*•' Rubbish ! You're as bad as Van Helclre
with his ships and his smelting works. Money !
Money ! Money ! Always money, morning,
noon, and night. One constant hunt for the
accursed stuff. Look at me ! "

*^ I was looking at you, old fellow ; and
studying you."

Humph ! Waste of time, unless you follow
my example."

Then it will be waste of time, sir, for I
certainly shall not follow your example."

'' Why not, boy ? Look at me. I have no
troubles. I pay no rent. My wants are few.
I am nearly independent of tradespeople and
tax men. I've no slatternly wife to worry
me, no young children to be always tumbling
down the rocks or catching the measles.
I'm free of all these troubles, and I'm a happy
man."

Well, then, your appearance belies you,

I 2

sir, for you do not look it," said Leslie
laughing.

Never you mind my appearance," said
Uncle Luke sharply. " I am happy ; at
least, I should be, if you'd do away with that
great smoky chimney and stop those rattling
stamps."

Then I'm afraid that I cannot oblige you,
neighbour."

Humph ! Neighbour ! "

I fancy that an unblessed person would
blame you and not me."

'' Of course he would."

He'd say if a man chooses to turn himself
into a sort of modern Diogenes "

o

Diogenes be hanged, sir ! All a myth. I
don't believe there ever was such a body. And
look here, Leslie, I imitate no man — no myth.
I prefer to live this way for my own satisfaction,
and I shall."

'^ And welcome for me, old fellow ; only don't
scold me for living my way."

Not going to. Here, stop ! I want to talk
to you. How's copper ? "

Up a good deal, but you don't want to
know."

Of course I don't. But look here. What
do you think of my nephew ? "

Tall, good-looking youncr fellow."

*' Humph ! What's the good of that ? You
know all about bim, of course ? "

I should prefer not to sit in judgment on
the gentleman in question."

So I suppose. Nice boy, though, isn't
he?"

Leslie was silent.

■'•' I say he's a nice boy, isn't he ? " cried the
old man, raising his voice.

I heard what you said. He is your
nephew."

Worse luck ! How is he getting on at Van
Heldre's ? "

I have not the least idea, sir."

More have I. They won't tell me. How
about that friend of his ? What do you think
of him ? "

Eeally, Mr. Vine," said Leslie, laughing,
'•' I do not set up as a judge of young men's
character. It is nothing to me."

'' Yes, it is. Do you suppose I'm blind ?
Do you suppose I can't tell which way the
wind blows ? If I were vouno:, do you know
what I should do ? "

Do away with the chimney-shaft and the
stamps," said Leslie, laughing.

No ; I should just get hold of that fellow

some night, and walk him to where the coach
starts."

Leslie's face looked warm.

"And then I should say, 'Jump up, and
when you get to the station, book for London ;
and if ever you show your face in Hakemouth
again I'll break your neck.' "

You must excuse me, Mr. Luke ; I'm busy
this morning," said Leslie, and he began to
descend the steep path.

"Touched him on the tender place," said
Uncle Luke, with a chuckle. " Humph !
wonder whether Louie will come and see me
to-day."

Duncan Leslie went on down the zio^zao;
cliff-path leading from the Wheal Germains
copper-mine to the town. It was a picturesque
way, with a fresh view at every turn west
and east ; and an advanced member of the
town board had proposed and carried the
suggestion of placing rough granite seats here
and there in the best parts for resting those
who climbed, and for giving others attractive
places for sunning themselves and looking out
to sea.

About half-way down Leslie passed an invalid,
who had taken possession of a seat, and
was gazing right away south, and dreaming of

lands where the sun always shone — wondering
whether the bright maiden Health could be
found there.

Lower still Leslie was going on thoughtfully,
pondering on Uncle Luke's hints, when the
blood suddenly flushed into his cheeks, his
heart began to beat rapidly, and he increased
his pace. For there unmistakably were two
ladies croinof down the zig-zao', and there were
no two others in Hakemouth could be mistaken
for them.

He hurried on to overtake them. Then he
checked himself.

Where had they been ? "

His sinking heart suggested that they had
been on their way to visit Uncle Luke, but that
they had caught sight of him, and in consequence
returned.

His brow grew gloomy, and he walked
slowly on, when the blood flushed to his cheeks
again, as if he had been surprised in some guilty
act, for a sharp voice said —

"Xo, Mr. Leslie; you would not be able to
overtake them now."

He stopped short, and turned to the warm
sheltered nook among the rocks where Aunt
Margaret was seated ; her gray lavender dress
was carefully spread about her, her white hair

turned back beneath a black velvet satisfied
hood, and a lace fichn pinned across her
breast.

*' You here, Miss Vine ? "

^' Yes ; and I thought I would save you a
thankless effort. You could not overtake the
girls unless you ran."

I was not going to try and overtake them,
Miss Vine," said Leslie coldly.

Indeed ! I beg your pardon ; I thought
you were. But would you mind, Mr. Leslie
it is a very trifling request, but I set store
by these little relics of our early history —
Miss Marguerite Vine, if you would be so
kind ? "

Leslie bowed. " Certainly, Miss Marguerite,"
he said quietly.

Thank you," she said, detaining him. '' It
is very good of you. Of course you are surprised
to see me up here ? "

Oh no," said Leslie quietly. " It is a
delightful place to sit and rest and read."

Ye — es ; but I cannot say that I care
much for the rough walking of this part of the
world, and my brother seems somehow to have
taken quite a dislike to the idea of having a
carriage ? "

Yes ? "

So I am obliged to walk when I do come
out. There are certain duties one is forced
to attend to. For instance, there is my poor
brother up yonder. I feel bound to see him
from time to time. You see him frequently,
of course ? "

Every day, necessarily. We are so near."

Poor fellow ! yes. Very eccentric and
peculiar ; but you need be under no apprehension,
Mr. Leslie. He is quite harmless, I
am sure."

Oh, quite harmless. Miss Marguerite.
Merely original."

It is very good of you to call it originality ;
but as friends, Mr. Leslie, there is no harm in
our alluding to his poor brain. Softening, a
medical man told me."

Hardening, I should say," thought Leslie.

Very peculiar ! very peculiar ! Father
and uncle both so different from my dear
nephew. He is in very bad spirits. Ah ! Mr.
Leslie, I shall be very glad to see him once
more as a Des Ignes should be. With him
placed in the position that should be his, and
that engagement carried out regarding my
darling Louise's future, I could leave this world
of sorrow without a sigh."

Leslie winced, but it was not perceptible to

Aunt Marguerite, who, feeling dissatisfied with
the result of her shot, fired again.

Of course it would involve losing my
darling ; but at my time of life, Mr. Leslie,
one has learned that it is one's duty always
to study self-sacrifice. The Des Vignes were
always a self-sacrificing family. When it was
not for some one or other of their kindred it
was for their king, and then for their faith.
You know our old French motto, Mr. Leslie ? "

"I? No. I beg pardon."

Eeally ? I should have thought that you
could not fail to see that. It is almost the
only trace of our former greatness that my
misguided brother "

Were you alluding to Mr. Luke Vine ? "

No, no, no, no ! To my brother, George
des Vignes. Surely, Mr. Leslie, you must
have noted our arms upon the dining-room
windows."

Oh, yes, of course, of course ; and the
motto, Ho?/ et FoyT

Exactly," said Aunt Marguerite, smiling.
I thought it must have caught your eye."

Something; else was catching Duncan Leslie's
eye just then — the last flutter of the scarf
Louise wore before it disappeared round the
foot of the cliff".

'• I shall bear it, I dare say, and with fortitude,
Mr. Leslie, for it will be a grand
position that she will take. The De Lignys
are a family almost as old as onr own ; and
fate micjht arrange for me to visit them and
make a long stay. She's a sweet girl, is she
not, Mr. Leslie ? "

Miss Vine ? Yes ; you must be very
proud of her," said the young man, without
moving; a muscle.

We are ; we are indeed, Mr. Leslie ; but I
am afraid I am detaining you."

It is curious," said Leslie, as he walked
slowly down the cliff-path. " De Ligny, De
Ligny ? Who is De Ligny ? Well," he added
With a sio^h, " I ouo-ht to thank Heaven that
the name is not Pradelle."

IN OFFICE HOURS.

Now, my clear Mr. Crampton, believe
me, I am only actuated by a desire to do
good."

That's exactly what actuates me, sir, when
I make bold, after forty years' service with you
and your father, to tell you that you have
made a great mistake."

"All men make mistakes, Crampton," said
Van Heldre to his plump, gray, stern-looking
head clerk.

Yes, sir, but if they are then worth their
salt they see where they have made a mistake,
and try and correct it. We did not want
him."

As far as actual work to be done, no ;
but I will tell you plainly why I took on
the young man. I wish to help my old
friend in a peculiarly troubled period of his
life."

That's you all over, Mr. Van Heldre,"
said the old clerk, pinching his very red
nose, and then arranging his thin hair with
a pen-holder, "but I can't feel that it's right.
You see, the young man don't take to his
work. He comes and goes in a supercilious
manner, and treats me as if I were his
servant."

Oh, that will soon pass off, Crampton."

I hope so, Mr. Van Heldre, sir, but his
writing's as bad as a schoolboy's."

"That will improve."

He's always late of a morning."

I'll ask him to correct that."

And he's always doing what I hate in a
young man, seeing how short is life, sir, and
how soon we're gone — he's always looking at
the clock and yawning."

"■ Never mind, Crampton, he'll soon give up
all that sort of thing. The young man is like
an ill-trained tree. He has grown rather wild,
but now he has been transplanted to an orderly
office, to be under your constant supervision,
he will gradually imbibe your habits and precision.
It will be his making."

Now, now, now," said the old clerk,
shaking his head, '* that's flattering, sir. My
habits and precision. No, no, sir ; I'm a very

bad clerk, and I'm growing old as fast as I
can.

You are the best clerk in the west of
England, Crampton, and you are only growing
old at the customary rate. And now to oblige
me look over these little blemishes in the
young man's character. There is a good deal
of the spoiled boy in him, but I believe his
heart's right ; and for more reasons than one
I want him to develop into a good man of
business — such a one as we can make of him
if we try."

Don't say another word, Mr. Van Heldre.
You know me, and if I say as long as the
young man is honest and straightforward
ril do my best for him, I suppose that's
sufficient."

More than sufficient, Crampton."

"But you know, sir, he ought to have
made some little advance in a month."

No, no, Crampton," said Van Heldre,
smiling, " he has not grown used to the new
suit yet ; have patience, and he'll come right."

That's enough, sir," said Crampton, climbing
on to a hio;h stool in front of a well-polished
desk ; " now for business. The St.
Aiihijn has taken in all her cargo, and will sail
tomorrow. We audit soon to have news of

the Madelaine. Bj the way, I hope Miss
Madelaine's quite well, sir. Haven't seen her
for a day and a half."

Quite well, Crampton."

"That's right, sir," said the old man,
smiling and rubbing his hands. " Bless her !
I've only one thins; against her. Whv wasn't
she a boy ? "

Van Heldre smiled at his old confidential
man, who still rubbed his hands softly, and
gazed over his silver rimmed spectacles at a
file of bills of latino hanoino- from the wall.

O CO

'•' "What a boy she would have made, and
what a man I could have made of him ! Van
Heldre and Son once more, as it ought to be.
I'd have made just such a man of business of
him as I made of you. Going, sir ? "

Yes, I'm going up to Tolzarn. By the
way, send Mr. Henry Vine up to me about
twelve."

'•'Yes, sir," said Crampton, beginning to
write away very busily. '"' I suppose he'll
come "? "

'•' Of course, of course," said Van Heldre,
hastily, and leaving the office he went into
the morning-room, where Madelaine was busy
with her needle.

She looked at him in an inquiring way, to

which he had become accustomed during the
past month, and in accordance with an unwritten
contract.

No, my dear, not come yet."

Madelaine's countenance changed as she saw
her father glance at his watch, and she involuntarily
darted a quick look at the clock on
the chimney-piece.

I'm going up to the works," continued Van
Heldre. " Back before one. Morning."

Madelaine resumed her work for a few
minutes, and then rose to stand where, unseen,
she could watch the road. She saw her father
go by up the valley, but her attention was
turned toward the sea, from which direction
Harry Vine would have to come.

She stood watching for nearly a quarter of
an hour before she heard a familiar step, and
then the young man passed smoking the end
of a cigar, which he threw away before turning
in at the way which led to Van Heldre's
offices.

Directly after, as Madelaine sat looking very
thoughtful over her work, there was the quick
patter of Mrs. Van Heldre's feet.

Madelaine, my dear," she said as she
entered, ''I thought you said that Mr. Prae
had gone away a fortnight ago."

'' I did, mamma."

Well, then, he has come back again."

Back again ? "

"Yes, I was at the np-stairs window
just now and I saw him pass as I was
looking out for Harry Vine. He's very late
this morning, and it does make papa so
vexed."

It was late, for instead of being nine o'clock,
the clock in the office was on the stroke of ten
as Harry Vine hurriedly entered, and glanced
at the yellowy-white faced dial.

Morning, Mr. Crampton. I say, that
clock's fast, isn't it ? "

"Eh? fast?" said the old man grimly.
"No, Mr. Harry Vine; that's a steady old
time-keeper, not a modern young man."

"Disagreeable old hunks," said Harry to
himself, as he hung up his hat. " Bad headache
this morning, Mr. Crampton, thought I
shouldn't be able to come."

Seidlitz powder," said the old man, scratching
away with his pen.

"Eh?"

"Dissolve the blue in a tumbler of warm
water."

Bother ! " muttered Harry, frowning.

The white in a wineglassful of cold.

VOL. I. K

Pour one into the other — and — drink — while
effervescing."

The intervals between some of the words
were filled, up by scratches of the pen.

'•' Headache, eh ? Bad things, sir, bad
things."

He removed himself from his stool and
went to the safe in the inner office, where Ian
Heldre generally sat, and Harry raised his
head from his desk and listened, as he heard
the rattling of keys and the clang of a small
iron door.

Yes, bad things headaches, Mr. Harry,"
said the old man returning. " Try early hours
for 'em ; and look here, Mr. Van Heldre

says

Has he been in the office this morning ? "

'eyes, sir, he came in as soon as I'd
come, nine to the minute, and he wants
you to join him at the tin works about
twelve."

Wigging ! " said guilty conscience.

Do your head good, sir."

Old Crampton resumed his seat, and for an
hour and three quarters, during which period
Harry had several times looked at the clock
and yawned, there was a constant scratching
of pens.

Then Harry Vine descended from his stool.

"I'd better go now?"

"Yes, sir, you'd better go now. And might
have gone before for all the good you've
done," grumbled the old man, as Harry passed
the window.

The old man had hardly spent another half-hour
over his work when there was a sharp
tapping at the door, such as might be given
by the knob on a stick.

Come in."

The door was opened, and Pradelle entered
and gave a sharp look round.

Morning," he said in a cavalier way.
Tell Mr. Vine I want to speak to him for a
moment."

Old Crampton looked up from his writing,
and fixed his eyes on the visitor's hat.

Not at home," he said shortly.

How long will he be ? "

Don't know."

Where has he gone ? "

Tin works."

Confounded old bear ! " muttered Travellers
he went out, after frowning severely at the
old clerk, who did not see it.

Idle young puppy ! " grumbled Crampton,
dotting an i so fiercely that he drove his pen.

E 2

through the paper. " I'd have knocked his
hat off if I had had my ruler handy."

Van Heklre was busy at work with a shovel
when Harry Vine reached the tin-smelting
works, which the merchant had added to his
other ventures. He was beside a heap of
what rather resembled wet coarsely ground
coffee.

Ah, Harry," he said, " you may as well
learn all these things. Be useful some day.
Take hold of that shovel and turn that
over."

A strong mind generally acts upon one that
is weak, and it was so here.

Harry felt disposed, as he looked at his
white hands, the shovel, and the heap, to
thrust the said white hands into his pockets
and walk away.

But he took the shovel and plunged it in
the heap, lifted it full, and then with a look of
disgust said —

'' W-hat am I to do with it ? "

Shovel it away and get more out of the
centre."

Harry obeyed, and looked up.

'' Now take a couple of handfuls and examine
them. Don't be afraid, man, it's honest
dirt."

Van Helclre set the example, took a liancl-
ful, and poured it from left to right and
back.

Now," he said, '' take notice : that's badly
washed."

'not soap enough," said Harry, hiding his
annoyance with an attempt at being facetious.

Not exactly," said Van Heldre dryly; *' bad
work. Now when that tin is passed through
the furnace there'll be twice as much slag and
refuse as there ought to be. That will do.
Leave the shovel, I want you to take account
of those slabs of tin. Mark them, number
them, and enter them in this book. It will
take you an hour. Then bring the account
down to me at the office."

I can have a man to move the slabs ? "

No : they are all busy. If I were doing
it, I should work without a man."

Hang it all ! I'm about sick of this," said
Harry. "How mad Aunt Marguerite would
be if she could see me now ! "

He looked round at the low dirty sheds on
one side, at the row of furnaces on the other,
two of which emitted a steady roar as the tin
within gradually turned from a brown granulated
powder to a golden fluid, whose stony
scum was Heating on the top.

It's enough to make any man kick against
his fate. Nice occupation for a gentleman,
'pon my word ! "

A low whistle made him look up.

Why, Vic," he cried ; '' I thought you
were in town."

How are you, my Trojan ? " cried the
visitor boisterously. *' I was in town, but
I've come back. I say, cheerful work this for
Monsieur le Comte Henri des Vignes ! "

Don't chaff a fellow," said Harry angrily.
What brought you down ? "

"Two things."

'' Now, look here, Vic. Don't say any more
about that. Perhaps after a time I may get
her to think differently, but now "

*' I was not going to say anything about
your sister, my dear boy. I can wait and
bear anything. But I suppose I may say
something about you."

'' About me ? "

*' Yes. I've got a splendid thing on. Safe
to make money — heaps of it."

Yes ; but your schemes always want
money first."

"Well, hang it all, lad! you can't expect a
crop of potatoes without planting a few bits
first. It wouldn't want much. Only about

fifty pounds. A hundred would be better,
but we could make fifty do."

Harry shook his head.

"Come, come; you haven't heard half yet.
I've the genuine information. It would be
worth a pile of money. It's our chance now
such a chance as may never occur again."

No, no ; don't tempt me, Vic," said Harry,
after a long whispered conversation.

Tempt ? I feel disposed to force you, lad.
It makes me half wild to see you degraded
to such work as this. Why, if we do as I
propose, you will be in a position to follow
out your aunt's instructions, engage lawyers
to push on your case, and while you obtain
your rights, I shall be in a position to ask your
sister's hand without the chance of a refusal.
I tell you the thing's safe."

No, no," said Harry, shaking his head ;
"it's too risky. We should lose and be worse
off than ever."

••' With a horse like that, and me with safe
private information about him ! "

'•' No," said Harry, " I won't. I'm going to
keep steadily on here, and, as the governor
calls it, plod."

"That you're not, if I know it," cried
PradcUc, indignantly. "I won't stand it.

It's disgraceful. You shan't throw yourself
away,"

But I've got no money, old fellow."

"Nonsense ! Get some of the old man."

"No; I've done it too often. He won't
stand it now."

Well, of your aunt."

She hasn't a penny but what my father
lets her have."

Your sister. Come, she would let you have
some."

Harry shook his head.

No, I'm not going to ask her. It's no
good, Yic ; I won't."

*' Well," said Pradelle, apostrophizing an
ingot of tin as it lay at his feet glistening
with iridescent hues, "if any one had told
me, I wouldn't have believed it. Why, Harry,
lad, you've only been a month at this mill-horse
life, and you're Cjuite changed. What
have they been doing to you, man ? "

Breaking my spirit, I suppose they'd call
it," said the young man bitterly.

Harry shook his head.

Get out ! I won't have it. You want
waking up," said Pradelle, in a low, earnest
voice. " Think, lad, a few pounds placed as
I could place 'em, and there's fortune for us

both, without reckoning on what you could
do in France. As your aunt says, there's
money and a title waiting for you, if you'll
only stretch out your hand to take 'em. Come,
rouse yourself. Harry Vine isn't the lad to
settle down to this drudgery. Why, I thought
it was one of the workmen when I came

"It's of no use," said Harry gloomily, ashe
seated himself on the ingots of tin. " A

o

man must submit to his fate."

Bah ! a man's fate is what he makes it.
Look here ; fifty or a hundred borrowed for a
few days, and then repaid."

'•' But suppose "

Suppose !" cried Pradelle mockingly; ''a
business man has no time to suppose. He
strikes while the iron's hot. You're going to
strike iron, not tin."

"' How ? Where's the money ? "

Where's the money ? " said Pradelle
mockingly. "You want fifty or a hundred
for a few days, when you could return it
fifty times over ; and you say, where's the
money ? "

"Dont I tell you I have no one I could
borrow from ? " said Harry angrily.

"Yes, you have," said Pradelle, sinking his

voice. ^^It's easy as easy. Only for a few
days. A temporary loan. Look here."

He bent down, and whispered a few words
in the young man's ear, words which turned
him crimson, and then deadly pale.

Pradelle ! " he cried, in a hoarse whisper ;
are you mad ? "

No. I was thinking of coming over to
Auvergne to spend a month with my friend,
the Count. By and by, dear lad — by and by."

No, no ; it is impossible," said Harry,
hoarsely, and he gave a hasty glance round.
I couldn't do that."

"You could," said Pradelle, and then to
himself ; " and, if I know you, Harry Vine,
you shall."

HARRY VINE HAS A WANT.

Breakfast-time, with George Vine quietly
partaking of his toast and giving furtive
glances at a Below in a small squat bottle.
He was feeding; his mind at the same time
that he supplied the wants of his body. Now
it was a bite of toast, leaving in the embroiled
bread such a mark as was seen by
the dervish when the man asked after the lost
camel ; for the student of molluscous sea-life
had lost a front tooth. Now it was a glance
at the little gooseberry-shaped creature, clear
as crystal, listening; in the clear water with
iridescent hues, and trailing behind it a couple
of filaments of an extreme delicacy and beauty
that warranted the student's admiration.

Louise was seated opposite, performing
matutinal experiments, so it seemed, with
pots, cups, an urn, and various infusions and
crystals.

Praclelle was reading the paper, and Harry
was dividing; his time between eating; some
fried ham and glancing at the clock, which
was pointing in the direction of the hour
when he should be at Alan Heldre's.

"More tea, Louie; too sweet," said the head
of the house, passing his cup, via Pradelle.

The cup was filled up and passed back,
Louise failing; to notice that Pradelle manoeuvred
to touch her hand as he played his
part in the transfer. Then the door opened,
and Liza, the brown-faced, black-haired Cornish
maid, entered, bearing a tray with an
untouched cup of tea, a brown piece of ham
on its plate, and a little covered dish of hot
toast.

Please, 'm, Miss Vine says she don't want
no breakfast this morning."

The Below bottle dropped back into George
Vine's pocket.

'* Eh ? My sister ill ? " he said anxiously.

No, sir ; she seems quite well, but she was
rashly cross with me, and said why didn't
Miss Louie bring it up."

Liza, I forbad you to use that foolish
word, ' rashly,' " said Louise, pouring out a
fresh cup of tea, and changing it for the one
cooling on the tray.

•'•' Why don't you take up auntie's breakfast
as you always do ? You know she doesn't like
it sent up."

Louise made no reply to her brother, but
turned to Pradelle.

"You will excuse me for a few minutes, Mr.
Pradelle,"' she said, as she rose.

Exc-use — you?" he replied, with a peculiar
smile ; and, rising in turn, he managed so
badly as he hurried to the door to open it for
Louise's passage with the tray, that he and
Liza, bent on the same errand, came into
collision.

*•' Thank you, Mr. Pradelle," said Louise,
quietly, as she passed out with the tray, and
Liza gave him an indignant glance as she
closed the door.

'•' Ha, ha ! What a bungle I " cried Harry
mockingly, as he helped himself to more ham.

George Vine was absorbed once more in the

o

study of the BeJoe.

'•' Xever you mind, my lord the count," said
Pradelle in an undertone ; '"' I don't see that
you get on so very well."

Harry winced.

"What are you going to do this morning?"

"' Fish."

Humph ! well to be you," said Harry, with

a vicious bite at his bread, while his father was
too much absorbed in his study even to hear.
You're going loafing about, and I've got to
go and turn that grindstone."

Which you can leave whenever you like'
said Pradelle meaningly.

Hold your tongue ! " cried Harry roughly,
as the door re-opened, and Louise, looking
slightly flushed, again took her place at the
table.

'^ Aunt poorly ? " said Vine.

Oh, no, papa ; she is having her breakfast
now."

"If you're too idle to take up auntie's
breakfast, I'll take it," said Harry severely.
"Don't send it up by that girl again."

I shall always take it myself, Harry," said
Louise quietly.

The breakfast was ended ; George Vine
went to his study to feed his sea-anemones
on chopped whelk ; Pradelle made an excuse
about fishing lines, after reading plainly
enough that his presence was unwelcome ;
and Harry stood with his hands in his
pockets, looking on as his sister put away
the tea-caddy.

Will you not be late, Harry ? "

"Perhaps," he said, ill-humoured. "I

shall be there as soon as old bottle-nose I
dare say."

How long is Mr. Pradelle going to
stay ? "

Lone as I like."

There was a pause. Then Harry continued.
'■ He's a friend of mine, a gentleman, and Aunt
Marguerite likes him to stay."

"Yes," said Louise gravely. 'aunt Marguerite
seems to like him."

'' And so do you, only you're such a precious
coquette."

Louise raised her eyebrows. This was news
to her, but she said nothing.

'' The more any one sees of Pradelle the
more one likes him. Deal nicer fellow than
that Scotch prig Leslie."

There was a slight flush on Louise Vine's
face, but she did not speak, merely glanced at
the clock.

*' All right ; Tm not going yet."

Then, chancing his manner —

Oh, Lou, you can't think what a life it is,"
he cried impetuously.

Why, Harry, it ought to be a very pleasant
one."

"What, with your nose over an account
book, and every time you happen to look up,

old Crampton staring at you as much as to
say, ' Why don't 3^011 go on ? ' "

Never mind, dear. Try and think that it
is for your good."

For my good ! " he said with a mocking
lauo^h.

Yes, and to please father. Why, Harry
dear, is it not something to have a chance to
redeem your character ? "

Redeem my grandmother ! I've never
lost it. Why, Lou, it's too bad. Here's father
rich as a Jew, and Uncle Luke with no end of
money."

Has he, Harry ? " said Louise thoughtfully.
" Really I don't know."

I'm sure he has — lots. A jolly old miser,
and no one to leave it to ; and I don't see then
why I should be ground down to work like an
errand-boy."

Don't make a sentimental grievance of it,
dear, but go and do your duty like a man."

"If I do my duty like a man I shall go and
try to recover the French estates which my
father neglects."

No, don't do that, dear ; go and get my
old school spelling-book and read the fable of
the dog and the shadow."

There you go, sneering again. You

women can't understand a fellow. Here am
I worried to death for money, and have to
drudge as old Van Heldre's clerk."

Worried for money, Harry ? What nonsense
! "

•''I am. You don't know. 1 say, Lou dear."

Now, Harry ! you will be so late."

I won't go at all if yon don't listen to me.
Look here ; I want fifty pounds."

What for ? "

Never mind. Will you lend it to me ? "

'' But what can you want with fifty pounds,
Harry ? You're not in debt ? "

You've got some saved up. Now, lend it
to me, there's a good girl ; I'll pay you again,
honour bright."

Harry, I've lent you money till I'm tired
of lending, and you never do pay me back."

But I will this time."

Louise shook her head.

What, you don't believe me 1 "

I believe you would pay me again if you
had the money ; but if I lent it you would
spend it, and be as poor as ever in a month."

Not this time, Lou. Lend it to me."

She shook her head.

Then hang me if I don't go and ask
Duncan Leslie."

VOL. I. L

Harry ! No ; you would not degrade
yourself to that."

'will you lend it?"

No."

Then I will ask him. The poor fool will
think it will please you, and lend it directly.
I'll make it a hundred whilst I'm about it."

'' Harry ! "

Too late now," he cried, and he hurried
away.

Oh ! " ejaculated Louise, as she stood
gazing; after him with her cheeks burning;.
No," she said, after a pause ; '' it was only a
threat ; he would not dare."

Harry gone to his office ? " said Vine,
entering the room.

*' Yes, dear."

Mr. Pradelle gone too ? "

'' Yes, dear ; fishing, I think."

Hum. Makes this house quite his home."

Yes, papa ; and do you think we are
doing; right ? "

Eh ? " said Vine sharply, as he dragged
his mind back from where it had gone under
a tide-covered rock. . " Oh, I see, about having
that young man here. Well, Louie, it's like
this : I don't want to draw the rein too tightly.
Harry is at work now, and keeping to it.

YiiR Heldre says his conduct is very fair.
Harry likes Mr. Pradelle, and they are old
companions, so I feel disposed to wink at
the intimacy, so long as our boy keeps to
his business."

'•' Perhaps you are right, dear," said Louise.

'• You don't like Mr. Pradelle, my dear 1 "

No, I do not."

No fear of his robbing me of you, eh ? "

Oh, father ! "

That's right ; that's right ; and look here,
as we're talking about that little thins which
makes the world go round, please understand
this, and help me, my dear. There's to be no
nonsense between Harry and Madelaine."

'' Then you don't like Madelaine ? "

"Eh? What? Not like her? Bless her !
You've almost cause to be jealous, only you
need not be, for I've room in my heart for
both of you. I love her too well to let herbe
made uncomfortable by our family scapegrace.
Dear me ! Pm sure that it has."

'' Have you lost anything, dear ? "

Yes, a glass stopper. Perhaps I left it
in my room. Mustn't lose it ; stoppers cost
money."

And here's some money of yours, father."

Eh ? Oh, that change."

Twenty-five shillings."

'Tut it on the chimney-piece, my clear;
I'll take it presently. We will not be hard on
Harry. Let him have his companion. We
shall get him round by degrees. Ah, here
comes some one to tempt you away."

In effect Madelaine was passing the window
on her way to the front entrance ; but
Vine forgot all about his glass stopper for
the moment, and threes open the glass
door.

Come in here, my dear," he said. " We
were just talking about you."

About me, Mr. Vine ? Whatever where
you saying ? "

Slander of course, of course."

My father desired to be kindly remembered,
and I was to say, * Very satisfactory
so far.'^'

Very satisfactory so far ? " said Vine
dreamily.

He said you would knows what it meant."

"To be sure — to be sure. Louie, my dear,
I'm afraid your aunt is right. My brain is
getting to be like that of a jelly-fish."

He nodded laughingly and left the room.

"Did you meet Harry as you came ? " said
Louise, as soon as they were alone.

Yes ; but he kept on one side of the
street, and I was on the other."

Didn't he cross over to speak '? "

No ; he couldn't see the Dutch fraulein —
the Dutch dolL"

Oh, that's cruel, Maddy. I did not think
my aunt's words coukl sting you."

Well, sometimes I don't think they do,
]put at others they seem to rankle. But look,
isn't that Mr. Pradelle coming ? "

For answer Louise caught her friend's hand
to hurry her out of the room before Pradelle
entered.

AUNT MARGUERITE STUDIES A COMEDY.

That morning after breakfast Aunt Marguerite
sat by her open window in her old-fashioned
French peignoir.

She saw Pradelle go out, and she smiled
and beamed as he turned to look up at her
window, and raised his hat before proceeding
down into the back lanes of the port to
inveigle an urchin into the task of obtaining
for him a pot of rag worms for bait.

Soon after she saw her nephew go out, but
he did not raise his head. On the contrary,
he bent it down, and heaved up his shoulders
like a wet sailor, as he went on to his office.

'' Mon pauvre enfant'' she murmured, as
she half closed her eyes, and kissed the tips
of her fingers. " But wait a while, Henri,
mon enfant, and all shall be well."

There was a lapse of time devoted to
thought, and then Aunt Marguerite's eyes

gii.stenecl with malice, as she saw Madeleine
approach.

*' Pah ! " she ejaculated soft'. " This might
be Amsterdam or the Boomj)jes. Wretched
Dutch wench ! How can George tolerate her
presence here ! "

Then Pradelle came back, but he did not
look up this time, merely went to the door
and entered, his eyes looking searchingly about
as if in search of Louise.

Lastly, a couple of particularly unseaman-
like men, dressed in shiny tarpaulin hats and
pea-jackets, with earrings and very smooth
pomatum hair, came into sight. Each man
carried a pack and a big stick, and as they
drew near their eyes wandered over window
and door in a particularly searching way.

They did not come to the front, but in a
slouching, furtive way went past the front of
the house and round to the back, where the
next minute there was a low tapping made by
the knob of a stick on a door, and soon after
a buzzing murmur of voices arose.

Aunt Marguerite had nothing whatever todo,
and the murmur interested her to the
extent of making her rise, go across her room,
and through a door at the back into her bedchamber,
where an open lattice window had a

clair beneath, and the said window being just
over the back entrance from whence the murmur
came, Aunt Marguerite had nothing; to do
but go and sit down there unseen, and hear
every word that was said.

Yes," said the familiar voice of l^rown-
faced, black-haired Liza ; " they're beautiful,
but I haven't got the money."

That there red ribbon 'd just soot you,
my lass," said a deep voice, so fuzzy that it
must have come from under a woollen jacket.

"Just look at that there hankychy, too,"
said another deep voice. "Did you ever see
a better match ? "

"Never," said the other deep voice emphatically.


Yes, they're very lovely, but I ain't got
the money. I let mother have all I had this
week."

"Never mind the rashly money, my lass,"
said the first deep voiced man huskily, " ain't-cher
got nothing you can sell ? "

Then arose a good deal of murmuring
whisper, and Aunt Marguerite's lips became
like a pale pink line drawn across the lower
part of her face, and both her eyes were
closely shut.

"Well, you wait," Alas the concluding

sentence of the whispered trio, and then the
door was heard to shut.

The click of a Latch rose to where Aunt
Marguerite sat, and then there was a trio
once again — a whispered trio — ending with a
little rustling, and the sound of heavy steps.

Then the door closed, and Liza, daughter
of Poll Perrow, the fisherman, who carried
a heavy luaund by the help of a strap across
her forehead, hurried up to her bedroom, and
threw herself upon her knees as she spread
two or three yards of brilliant red ribbon on
the bed, and tastefully placed beside the
ribbon an orange silk kerchief, whose united
colours made her dark eyes sparkle with
delight.

The quick ringing of a bell put an end to
the colour worship, and Liza, with a hasty
ejaculation, opened her box, thrust in her new
treasures, dropped the lid, and locked it again
before hurrying; down to the dining-room,
where she found her young mistress, her
master, and madeline Van Heldre.

'^ There was some change on the chimney-piece,
Liza," said Louise. 'did you see it ? "

"No, miss."

It is very strange. You are quite sure
you did not take it, papa ? "

Quite, my dear."

That will do, Liza."

The girl went out, looking scared.

It is very strange," said Vine.

"Yes, dear; and it is a great trouble tome.
This is the third time money has been
missing lately. I don't like to suspect people,
but one seems to be forced."

"But surely, Louie, dear, that poor girl
would not take it."

I have always tried to hope not, Maddy,"
said Louise sadly.

You had better make a change."

Send her away, father ? How can I do
that ? How can I recommend her for another
situation ? "

Ah ! it's a puzzle— it's a puzzle," said
Vine irritably. " One of the great difficulties
of domestic service. I shall soon begin to
think that your Uncle Luke is right after all.
He has no troubles, eh, Louise ? "

She looked np in his face with a peculiar
smile, but made no reply. Her father,
however, seemed to read her look, and
continued,

"Ah, well, I dare say you are right, my
dear ; we can't get away from trouble ; and
if we don't have one kind we have another.

Get more than our share, though, in this
house."

Louise smiled in his face, and the comical
aspect of chagrin displayed resulted in a
general laugh.

o o

Is one of the sea-anemones dead ? "

'• Yes, confound it ! and it has poisoned the
water, so that I am afraid the rest will go."

I think we can o-et over that trouble,"
said Louise, laughing. " It will be an excuse
for a pleasant ramble with you."

"Yes," said Vine dryly, 'but we shall not
get over the trouble of the thief quite so well.
I'm afraid these Perrow^s are a dishonest
family. I'll speak to the girl."

*•' No, father, leave it to me."

Very well, my child ; but I think you
ought to speak."

The old man left the room, the bell was
rung, and Liza summoned, when a scene of
tears and protestations arose, resulting in a
passionate declaration that Liza would tell her
mother, that she would not stop in a house
where she was going to be suspected, and that
she had never taken anybody's money but her
own.

This is the third time that I have missed
money, Liza, or I would not have spoken. If

you took it, confess like a good girl, and we'll
forgive you if you promise never to take anything
of the kind again."

I can't confess, mis, and won't confess,"
sobbed the girl. " Mother shall come and
speak to you. I wouldn't do such a thing."

Where did you get the money with which
you bought the red ribbon and orange kerchief
this morning, Liza ? " said a voice at the door.

All started to see that Aunt Marguerite
was there looking on, and apparently the
recipient of all that had been said.

Liza stood with eyes dilated, and jaw
dropped.

^' Then you've been at my box," she suddenly
exclaimed. " Ah, what a shame ! "

"At your box, you wretched creature!"
said Aunt Marguerite contemptuously. "Do
you suppose I should go into your room ? "

You've been opening my box," said the
girl again, more angrily ; " and it's a shame."

I saw her take them up to her room,
Louise. My dear, she was buying them under
my window, of some pedlar. You had better
send her away."

Liza did not wait to be sent away from the
room, but ran out sobbing, to hurry up-stairs
to her bed-chamber, open her box, and see if

the brilliant specimens of silken fabric were
safe, and then cry over them till they were
blotched with her tears.

A bad family," said Aunt Marguerite.
I'm quite sure that girl stole my piece of
muslin lace, and gave it to that wretched
woman your Uncle Luke encourages."

*'No, no, aunt, you lost that piece of lace
one day when you were out."

Nonsense, child ! your memory is not
good. Who is that with you ? Ch, I see ;
Miss Van Heldre."

Aunt Marguerite, after suddenly becoming
aware of the presence of Madelaine, made a
most ceremonious curtsy, and then sailed out
of the room.

^' Louise must be forced to give up the companionship
of that wretched Dutch girl," she
said as she reached her own door, at which she
paused to listen to Liza sobbing.

'' I wonder what Miss Vine would have
been like," thought Madelaine, "if she had
married some good sensible man, and had a
large family to well employ her mind ? "
Then she asked herself what kind of man
she would have selected as possessing the
necessary qualifications, and concluded that
he should have been such a nmn as Duncan

Leslie, and wondered whether he would marry
her friend.

Why, Madelaine," said Louise, breaking
her chain of thought, " what are you thinking
about ? "

Thinking about ? " said the girl, starting,
and colouring slightly. " Oh, I was thinking
about Mr. Leslie just then."

'" Late again," said old Cramp ton, as Harry
Vine entered the office.

"How I do hate the sight of that man's
nose ! " said the young man ; and he stared
hard, as if forced by some attraction.

The old clerk frowned, and felt annoyed.
" I beg pardon," he said.

'• Granted," said Harry, coolly.

I said I beg pardon, Mr. Harry Vine."

I heard you."

But I thought you spoke."

No," grumbled Harry ; " didn't speak."

Then I will," said old Crampton merrily.
Good morning, Mr. Harry Vine," and he
rattled the big ruler by his desk.

Eh ? oh, yes, I see. Didn't say it as I
came in. Good morning, Mr. Crampton."

Lesson for the proud young upstart in
good behaviour," grumbled old Crampton.

*' Bother him ! " muttered Harry, as he took
his place at his desk, opened a l.)ig account
book Crampton placed before him, with some
amounts to transfer from one that was smaller,
and beo'an writings.

But as he wrote, the figures seemed to join
hands and dance before him ; then his pen
ceased to form others, and an imaginary
picture painted itself on the 'delicately tinted
blue paper with its red lines — a pleasant landscape
in fair France with sunny hill-sides on
which ranged in rows were carefully cultured
vines. To the north and east were softened
bosky woods, and dominating all, one of those
antique castellated chateaus, with pepper-box
towers and gilded vanes, such as he had seen
in pictures or read of in some books.

If I only had the money," thought Harry,
as he entered a sum similar to that which
Pradelle had named. " He knows all these
things. He has good advice from friends, and
if we won — Hah ! "

The chateau rose before his eyes again,
bathed in sunshine. Then he pictured the
terrace overlooking the vineyards — a gray old
stone terrace, with many seats and sheltering
trees, and along that terrace walked just such
a maiden as Aunt Marguerite had described.

Scratch ! scratch ! scratch ! scratch ! His
pen and Crampton's pen ; and he lead no
money, and Pradelle's project to borrow ashe
had suoro-ested was absurd.

CO

Ah, if he only had eighty-one pounds ten
shillings and sixpence ! the sum he now placed
in neat figures in their appropriate columns.

Old Crampton tilted back his tall stool,
swuncr himself round, and lowered himself
to the oTound. Then crossing; the office, he
want into Van Heldre's private room, and
there was the rattle of a key, a creaking
hinge, as an iron door was swung open ; and
directly after the old man returned.

Harry Vine could not see his hands, and he
did not raise his eyes to watch the old clerk,
but in the imagination which so readily
pictured the chateau that was not in Spain,
he seemed to see as he heard every movement
of the fat, white fingers, when a canvas bag
was dumped down on the mahogany desk, the
string untied, and a little heap of coins were
poured out. Then followed the scratching of
those coins upon the mahogany, as they were
counted, ranged in little piles, and finally,
after an entry had been checked, they were
replaced in the bag, which the old man bore
back into the safe in the private room.

VOL. I. M

Fifty or a hundred pounds," said Harry to
himself, as a curious sensation of heat came
into his cheeks, to balance which there seemed
to be a peculiarly cold thrill running up his
spine, to the nape of his neck.

Anybody at home ? "

Yes, sir ; here we are, hard at work."

Harry had looked up sharply to see Uncle
Luke standing in the opening, a grim-looking
gray figure in his old Norfolk jacket and
straw hat, one hand resting on his heavy
stick, the other carrying a battered fish-basket.
The old man's face was in shadow,
for the sunshine streamed in behind him, but
there was plenty of light to display his grim,
sardonic features, as, after a short nod to
Crampton, he gazed from under his shaggy
brows piercingly at his nephew.

'well, quill-driver," he said, sneeringly ;
doing something useful at last ? "

Morning, uncle," said Harry shortly ; and
he muttered to himself, " I should like to
throw the ledger at him."

Hope he's a good boy, hey ? "

Oh, he's getting on, Mr. Luke Vine —
slowly," said Crampton unwillingly. " He'll
do better by and by."

A sharp remark was on Harry's lips, but

he checked it for a particular reason. Uncle
Luke might have the money he wanted.

■'"'Time he did," said the old man. "Look
here, boy," he continued, with galling, sneering
o- tone in his voice. "Go and tell your
master I want to see him."

Harrv drew a long; breath, and his teeth
gritted together.

"I caught a splendid conger this mornings
continued L'ncle Luke, crivino- his basket a
swing, " and I've brought your master half."

'•' My master ! " muttered Harry.

'•' Like conger-pie, boy ? "

'•■ Xo," said Harry, shortly.

"More nice than wise," said L^ncle Luke.
Always were. There, be quick. I want to
see your master."

To see my master," thought Harry, with a
strange feeling of exasperation in his breast ashe
looked up at Crampton.

Crampton was looking up at him with eyes
which said very clearly, " Well, whv don't you

They'll make me an errand-boy next," said
the young man to himself, as, after twisting
his locket round and round like a firework, he
swung himself down, "and want me to clean
the knives and boots and shoes."

M 2

Tell him I'm in a hurry," said Uncle
Luke, as Harry reached the door which led
into the private house along a passage built
and covered with glass, by one side of what
was originally a garden.

Ah," said Uncle Luke, going closer to old
Crampton's desk, and taking down from where
it rested on two brass hooks, the heavy ebony
ruler. " Nice bit o' wood that."

"Yes, sir," said the old clerk, in the fidgety
way of a workman who objects to have his
tools touched.

Pretty weighty," continued Uncle Luke,
balancing it in his hand. " Give a man a
pretty good topper that, eh ? "

"Yes, Mr. Luke Vine. — I should like to
give him one with it," thought Crampton.

Do for a constable's staff, or to kill
burglars, eh ? "

Capitally, sir."

Hah ! You don't 2:et burn-lars here,
though, do you ? "

No, sir; never had any yet."

Good job too," said Uncle Luke, putting
the ruler back in its place, greatly to Cramp-ton's
relief. "Father an awkward cub to lick
into shape, my nephew, eh ? "

Rather, sir."

Well, you must lick away, Crampton — not
with that ruler though," he chuckled. " Time
something was made of him — not a bad sort

o

of boy ; but spoiled."

I shall do my best, Mr. Luke Vine," said
Crampton dryly; "but I must tell you candidly,
sir, he's too much of the gentleman for
us, and he feels it."

Bah ! "

Not at all the sort of young man I should
have selected for a clerk."

'' Never mind ; make the best of him."

'' Mr. Van Heldre is coming, sir," said Harry
coldly, as he re-entered the office.

Bah ! I didn't tell you to bring him here.
I want to go in there."

As Luke Vine spoke, he rose and moved to
the door.

Be a good boy," he said, turning with a
peculiar smile at his nephew. " I dare say
you'll get on."

Oh ! " muttered Harry, as he retook his
place at his desk, " how I should like to tell
you. Uncle Luke, just what I think."

The door closed behind the old man, who
had nearly reached the end of the long passage,
when he met Van Heldre.

"Ah, Luke Vine, I was just coming."

Go back," said the visitor, making a stabat
the merchant with his stick. " Brought you
something. Where's Mrs. Van Helclre ? "

*' In the breakfast-room. Come along.'^

Van Heldre clapped the okl man on the
shoulder, and led him into the room where
Mrs. Van Heldre was seated at work.

'^Ah, Mr. Luke Vine," she cried, 'who'd
have thought of seeing you ? "

Not you. How are you ? Where's the
girir^

Gone up to your brother's."

Humph ! to gad about and idle with Louie,
I suppose. Here, Lve brought you some fish.
Caught it at daylight this morning. Ring fora
dish."

"It's very kind and thoughtful of you,
Luke Vine," said Mrs. Van Heldre, with her
pink face dimpling as she rang the bell, and
then trotted to the door, which she opened,
and cried, " Bring in a large dish, Esther ! I
always like to save the servants' legs if I can,"
she continued as she returned to her seat,
while Van Heldre stood with his hands in his
pockets, waiting. He knew his visitor.

Just then a neat-looking maid servant 



tered with a large blue dish, and stood holding
it by the door, gazing at the quaint-looking

old man, sitting with the basket between his
legs, and his heavy stick resting across his
knees"'

Put it down and go."

The girl placed the dish on the table
hurriedly, and left the room.

'see if she has ozone."

'•'Xo fear," said Van Heldre, obeying, to
humour his visitor. " I don't think my servants
listen at doors."

Don't trust 'em, or anybody else," said
Uncle Luke with a grim look, as he opened
his basket wide. " Going to trust her ? "

"AVelJ, I'm sure, Mr. Luke Vine!" cried
Mrs. Van Heklre, " I believe you learn up
rude things to say."

He can't help it," said Van Heldre, laughing.
'' Yes," he continued, with a droll look
at his wife, which took her frown away, " I
think we'll trust her, Luke, my lad — as far as
the fish is concerned."

'• Eh ! What ? " said Uncle Luke, snatching
his hands from his basket. " What do you

That the dish is waiting; for the bit of

o

conger.

Let it wait," said the old man snappishly.
*' You're too clever. Van — too clever. Look

here; how are you getting ou with that
boy?"

Oh, slowly. Rome was not built in a
day."

"No," chuckled the old man, "no. Work
away, and make him a useful member of
society — like his aunt, eh, Mrs. Van."

Useful ! " cried Mrs. Van. " Ah."

Then old Luke chuckled, and drew the fish
from the basket.

Fine one, ain't it ? " he said.

"A beauty," cried Mrs. Van Heldre ecstatically.


Pshaw ! " ejaculated Uncle Luke. " Ma'am,
you don't care for it a bit; but there's more
than I want, and it will help keep your
servants."

It would, Luke," said Van Heldre, laughing,
as the fish was laid in the dish, " but they
will not touch it. Well ? "

"Eh? What do you mean by well?"
snorted the old man with a suspicious look.

Out with it."

Out with what ? "

What you have brought."

The two men gazed in each other's faces,
the merchant looking half amused, the visitor
annoyed ; but his dry countenance softened

into a smile, and he turned to Mrs. Van
Heldre. "Artful!" he said dryly. "Don't
you find him too cunning to get on with ? "

'' I should think not indeed," said Mrs. Van
Heldre indignantly,

Might have known you'd say that," sneered
Uncle Luke. " What a weak, foolish woman
you are ! "

Yes, I am, thank goodness ! I wish you'd
have a little more of my foolishness in you,
Mr. Luke Vine. There, I beg your pardon.
What have you got there, shrimps ? "

Yes," said Uncle Luke grimly, as he
brought a brown paper parcel from the bottom
of his basket, where it had lain under the wet
piece of conger, whose stain was on the cover,
some nice crisp fresh shrimps. Here, Van — •
catch."

He threw the packet to his brother's old
friend and comrade, by whom it was deftly
caught, while Mrs. Van Heldre looked on ina
puzzled way.

Put 'em in your safe till I find another
investment for 'em. Came down by post this
morning, and I don't like having 'em at home.
Out fishing so much."

*' How much is there ? " said Van Heldre,
opening the fishy brown paper, and taking

therefrom sundry crisp new Bank of England
notes.

Five hundred and fifty," said Uncle Luke.
Count 'em over."

This was already being done, Van Heldre
having moistened a finger and begun handling
the notes in regular bank-clerk style.

x4.ll right ; five fifty," he said.

And he said they were shrimps," said Mrs.
Van Heldre.

'' Eh ? I did ? " said Uncle Luke with a
grim look and a twinkle of the eye. " Nonsense,
it must have been you."

Look here, Luke Vine," said Van Heldre ;
'ris it any use to try and teach you at your
time of life 1 "

Not a bit : so don't try."

But why expose yourself to all this trouble
and risk ? Why didn't your broker send you
a cheque ? "

Because I wouldn't let him."

Why not have a banking account, and do
all your money transactions in an ordinary
way i

Because I like to do things in my own
way. I don't trust bankers, nor anybody else."

Except my husband," said Mrs. Van
Heldre, beaming.

Nonsense, ma'am, I don't trust him a bit.
You do as I tell you. Van. Put those notes
in your safe till I ask you for them. I had
that bit of money in a company I doubted, so
I sold out. I shall put it in something else
soon."

You're a queer fellow, Luke."

Eh ? I'm not the only one of my family,
am I ? What's to become of brother George
when that young scapegrace has ruined him ?
"What's to become of Louie, when we're all
dead and buried, and out of all this worry and
care ? What's to become of my mad sister,
who squandered her money on a French
scamp, and made wdiat she calls her heart
bankrupt ? "

Nearly done questioning ? " said Van
Heldre, doubling the notes longwise.

"No, I haven't, and don't play with that
money as if it was your wife's curl-papers."

Van Heldre shrugged his shoulders, and
placed the notes in his pocket.

And as I was saying when your husband
interrupted me so rudely, Mrs. Van Heldre,
what's to become of that boy by and by ?
Money's useful sometimes, though I don't
want it myself."

Ah ! YOU needn't look-at me, Mr. Luke

Vine. It's of no use for you to pretend to bea
cynic with me."

"Never pretend anything, ma'am," said
Uncle Luke, rising ; " and don't be rude. I
did mean to come in and have some confers
to-night ; now I won't."

No, you didn't mean to do anything of
the sort, Luke Vine," said Mrs. Van Heldre
tartly ; "I know you better than that. If
I've asked you to come and have a bit of
dinner with us like a Christian once I've
asked you five hundred times, and one might
just as well ask the hard rock."

Just as well, ma'am ; just as well. There,
I'm going. Take care of that money, Van.
I shall think out a decent investment one of
these days."

When you want it there it is," said Van
Heldre quietly.

Hope it will be. And now look here :
I want to know a little more about the
Count."

The Count ? " said Mrs. Van Heldre.

'' My nephew, ma'am. And I hope you feel
highly honoured at having so distinguished a
personage in your husband's service."

What does he mean, dear ? "

Mean, ma'am ? Why, you know how his

aunt has stuffed his head full of nonsense about
French estates."

Oh ! that, and the old title," cried Mrs.
Van Heldre. " There, don't say any more
about it, for if there is anything that worries
me, it's all that talk about French descents."

'•' Whv, hang it, ma'am, you don't think
your husband is a Frenchman, and that my
sister, who has made it all the study of her
life, is wrong ? "

'•'I don't know and I don't care whether
mv husband's a Dutchman or a double Dutchman
by birth ; all I know is he's a very good
husband to me and a good father to his child ;
and I thank God, Mr. Luke Vine, every night
that things are just as they are ; so that's all
I've got to say."

"Tut— tut! tut— tut! This is all very
dreadful. Van," said Uncle Luke, fastening
his basket, and examining his old straw hat
to see which was the best side to wear in
front ; " I can't stand any more of this. Here,
do you want a bit of advice ? "

'' Yes, if it's good."

'-' Ah ! I was forgetting; about the Count.
Keep the curb tight and keep him in use."

I shall do both, Luke, for George's sake,"
said Van Heldre warmly.

Good, lad ! — I mean, more fool you ! "
said Uncle Luke, stumping out after ignoring
extended hands and giving each a nod.
That's all."

He left the room, closing the door after him
as loudly as he could without the shock being
considered a bang ; and directly after the front
door was served in the same way, and they
saw him pass the window.

Odd fish, Luke," said Van Heldre.

Odd ! I sometimes think he's half mad."

*' Nonsense, my dear ; no more mad than
Hamlet. Here he is again."

For the old man had come back, and was
tapping the window-frame with his stick.

'what's the matter T' said Van Heldre,
throwing open the window, when Uncle Luke
thrust in the basket he carried and his stick,
resting* his arms on the window-sill.

Don't keep that piece of conger in this
hot room all the morning," he said, pointing
with his stick.

Why, goodness me, Luke Vine, how can
you talk like that ? " cried Mrs. Van Heldre
indignantly.

Easy enough, ma'am. Forgot my bit of
advice," said Uncle Luke, speaking to his old
friend, but talking at Mrs. Van Heldre.

'• AVhat is it ? "

'' Send that girl of yours to a boarding-school."


Bless my heart, Luke Vine, what for ? "
cried the lady of the house. " Why, she
finished two years ago.'"'

'"'To keep her out of the way of George
Vine's stupid boy, and because her mother's
spoiling her. Morning."

TO REAP THE WIND.

Late dinner was nearly over — at least late
according to the ideas of the West-country
family, who sat down now directly Harry
returned from his office work. Aunt Marguerite,
after a week in her bedroom, had
come down that day, the trouble with Liza
exciting her ; and that maiden had rather an
unpleasant time as she waited at table, looking
red-eyed and tearful, for Aunt Marguerite
watched her with painful, basilisk-like glare all
through the meal, the consequence being a
series of mishaps and blunders, ending with
the spilling of a glass dish of clotted cream.

With old-fashioned politeness. Aunt Marguerite
tried to take Pradelle's attention from
the accident.

Are you going for a walk this evening,
Mr. Pradelle ? "

Yes," he said ; " I dare say we shall
smoke a cio-ar too-ether after the labours of

o o

the day."

Aunt Marguerite sighed and looked pained.

*' Tobacco ! Yes, Mr. Pradelle," she sighed ;
and she continued, in a low tone, "Do pray
try to use your influence on poor Henri, to
coax him from these bad pursuits."

Harry was talking cynically to his sister
and Madelaine, who had been pressed by Vine
to stay, a message having been sent down to
the Van Heldres to that effect.

'the old story," he said to himself; and
then, as he caught his sister's eye after she
had gazed uneasily in the direction of her
aunt ; " yes, she's talking about me. Surely
you don't mind that."

He, too, balanced now in x\unt Marguerite's
direction, as Rradelle talked to her in a slow,
impressive tone.

Ah ! no," said i^unt Marguerite, in a playful
whisper, " nothing of the kind. A little
boy and girl badinage in the past. Look for
yourself, Mr. Pradelle ; there is no warmth
there ! My nephew cannot marry a Dutch
doll."

Lovers' tiff, perhaps," said Pradelle.

No, no," said Aunt Marguerite, shaking

VOL. I. N

her head confidently. " Harry is a little wild
and changeable, but he pays great heed to my
words and advice. Still I want your help,
Mr. Pradelle. Human nature is weak. Harry
must win back his French estates."

Hear that, Louie ? " said Harry, for Aunt
Marguerite had slightly raised her voice.

Yes, I heard," said Louise quietly.

Aunt is sick of seeing her nephew engaged
in a beggarly trade."

For which Mr. Henry Vine seems much
too good," said Madelaine to herself, as she
darted an indignant glance at the young
man. " Oh, Harry, what a weak, foolish boy
you are ! I don't love you a bit. It was alla
mistake."

I hate business," continued Harry, as he
encountered her eyes fixed upon him.

Yes," said Louise coldly, as an angry
feeling of annoyance shot through her on her
friend's behalf. " Harry has no higher ambition
than to lead a lap-dog kind of life in attendance
upon Aunt Marguerite, and listening to
her stories of middle-aged chivalry."

Thank goodness ! " said Harry, as they
rose from the table. " No, no, aunt, I don't
want any coffee. I should stifle if I stopped
here much longer."

Aunt Marguerite frowned as the young man
declined the invitation to come to her side.

Only be called a lap-dog again. Here,
Vic, let's go and have a cigar down by the
sea."

Certainly," said Pradelle, smiling at all in
turn.

"Yes, the room is warm," said the host,
who had hardly spoken all through the dinner,
being deep in thought upon one of his last
discoveries.

Harry gave his sister a contemptuous look,
which she returned with one half sorrowful,
half pitying, from which he turned to glance
at Madelaine, who was standing by her friend.

Aunt Marguerite smiled, for there was certainly
the germ of an incurable rupture between
these two, and she turned away her
head to hide her triumph.

She will never forgive him for speaking
as he did about the beggarly trade." Then
crossing with a graceful old-world carriage, she
laid her hand on Madelaine's arm.

Come into the drawing-room, my dear,"
she said, smiling, and to Madelaine it seemed
that her bright, malicious-looking eyes were
full of triumph. "You and I will have a
good hard fight over genealogies, till you

N 2

confess that I am right, and that your father
and you have no claim to Huguenot descent."

Oh no, Miss Vine," said the girl, laughing,
*' my father must fight his own battle. As forme,
I give uj). Perhaps you are right, and I
am only a Dutch girl after all."

Oh, I wish we were back in London ! "
cried Harry as they strolled along towards the
cliff walk.

Ah, this is a dead-and-alive place, and no
mistake," said Pradelle.

"Why don't you leave it, then?" said
Harry sulkily. '' You are free."

No, I am not. I don't like to see a friend
going to the bad ; and besides, I have your
aunt's commission to try and save you from
sinking down into a miserable tradesman."

Why don't you save me, then ? "

That's just like you. Look here, sink all
cowardice, and go up to the old boy like a
Trojan. Plenty of money, hasn't he ? "

*' I suppose so. I don't know."

He's sure to have."

But he's such an old porcupine."

Never mind. Suppose you do get a few
pricks, what of that ? Think of the future."

'but that venture must be all over now."

'' What of that ? You get the money and

I can find a dozen ways of investing it. Look
here, Harry, you profess to be my friend, and
to have confidence in my judgment, and yet
you won't trust me."

I trusted you over several things, and see
how I lost."

Come, that's unkind. A man can't always
win. There, never look back, look forward.
Show some fight, and make one good plunge
to get out of that miserable shop-boy sort of
life's

Come along, then."

You'll go up and ask him ? "

'' Yes, if you'll back me up."

Back you up, lad ? I should think I will.
Lead on, I'll follow thee."

We'll do it sensibly, then. If you speak
before Uncle Luke iu that theatrical way we
shall come down faster than we go up."

'' I'll talk to the old man like a young
Solomon, and he shall say that never did
youth choose more wisely for his friend than
Harry Vine, otherwise Henri, Comte des
Vignes."

Look here," said Harry peevishly —
' otherwise Comte des Vignes.' Why don't
you say alias at once ? Why, if the old man
heard that he'd want to know how long it was

since you were in a police court. Here, you'd

better stay down here."

'' All right, my dear fellow. Anything to

help you on."

No ; I'd rather you came too."

There was a pause in a niche of the rocks,

and then, after the scratching of a match, the

young men went up the cliff-path, smoking

furiously, as they prepared themselves for the

attack.

DIOGENES IN HIS TUB.

Uncle Luke was in very good spirits. He
had rid himself of his incubus, as he called the
sum of money, and though he would not own
it, he always felt better when he had had a
little converse with his fellow-creatures. His
lonely life was very miserable, and the more
so that he insisted upon its being the highest
form of happiness to exist in hermit fashion,
as the old saints proved.

The desolate hut in its rocky niche looked
miserable when he climbed up back on his return
from Van Heldre's, so he stopped by the
granite wall and smiled.

Finest prospect in all Cornwall," he said,
half aloud ; " freshest air. Should like to blowup
Leslie's works, though."

The door was locked, but it yielded to the
heavy key which secured it against visitors.

though they were very rare upon that rocky
shelf.

He was the more surprised then, after his
frugal mid-day meal, by a sharp rapping at
the door, and on going he stared angrily at
the two sturdy sailor-dressed pedlars, who
where resting their packs on the low infinite
wall.

"Can we sell a bit o' 'banco, or a pound o'
tea, master ? " said the man who had won over
Liza to the purchase of his coloured silk.

Bang ! "

That was Uncle Luke's answer as the man
spoke to him and his fellow swept the interior
of the cottage with one quick glance.

Steal as soon as sell any day," grumbled
Uncle Luke. " Tobacco and tea, indeed ! "

Outside one of the men gave his companion
a wink and a laugh, as he shouldered his
pack, while the other chuckled and followed
his example.

Meanwhile Uncle Luke had seated himself
at his rough deal table, and written a long:
business letter to his lawyer in London.

This missive he read over twice, made an
addition to the paragraph dealing most particularly
with the mortgage on which he had
been invited to lend, and then carefully folded

the square post-paper he used in old-fashioned
letter shape, tucking one end into the other
from objects of economy, so as to dispense
with envelopes, but necessitating all the same
the use of sealing-wax and a liojht.

However, it pleased him to think that he
was saving, and he lit a very thin candle, took
the stick of red wax from a drawer, a curious
old-fashioned sonnet o'old ring; bearing: the
family crest from a nail where it hung over
the fireplace, and then, sitting down as if to
some very important piece of business, he
burned his wax, laid on a liberal quantity, and
then impressed the seal. This done, the ring
was hung once more upon its nail, and the old
man stood oratio; at it and thinking'. The
next minute he took down the ring, and
slipped it on one of his fingers, and worked it
up and down, trying it on another finger, and
then o'oino; back to the first.

'•' Used to fit too tio^htlv," he said ; " now
one's fingers are little more than bone."

He held up the ring to the light, his white
hand looking very thin and wasted, and the
worn cold glistened and the old engraved
blood-Stone showed its design almost as clearly
as when it was first cut.

"^Eoy et Foy !'" muttered the old man,

reading; the motto beneath the crest. " Bit
of vanity. Margaret asked where it was, last
time I saw her. Let's see ; I lost you twice,
once when I wore you as I was fishing off the
pier, and once on the black rock you slipped
off my bony finger, and each time the sea
washed you into a crack."

He smiled as he gazed at the ring, and
there was a pleasant, handsome trace of what
he had been as a young man in his refined
features.

Please the young dog — old family ring,"
he muttered. "Might sell it and make a
pound. No, he may have it when I'm gone.
Can't be so very long."

He hung the ring upon the nail once more,
and spent the rest of the afternoon gazing
out to sea, sometimes running over the past,
but more often looking out for the glistening
and flashing of the sea beneath where a flock
of gulls were hovering over some shoal offish.


It was quite evening when there was a
staid, heavy step and the click of nailed boots
as the old fisherman came toiling up the cliff-path,
her basket on her back, and the band
which supported it across her brow.

Any fish to sell. Master Vine ? " she said

in a sing-song tone. " I looked clown the
pier, but you weren't there''

'' How could I be there when I'm up here,
Poll Perrow ? "

Ah, to be sure ; how could you ? " said
the old woman, trying to nod her head, but
without performing the feat, on account of her
basket. "Got any fish to sell ? "

No. Yes," said the old man.

That's right. I want some to-night. Will
you go and fetch it ? "

Yes. Stop there," said Uncle Luke sourly,
as he saw a chance of making a few pence, and
wondered whether he would get enough from
his customer.

Mind my sitting down inside. Master
Luke Vine, sir ? It's hot, and Fm tired ; and
it's a long way up here."

Why do you come, then ? "

Wanted to say a few words to you about
my gal when we've done our bit o' trade."

Come in and sit down, then," said the
old man gruffly. And his visitor slipped the
leather band from her forehead, set her basket
on the granite w^alJ, and went into the kitchen-like
room, wiping her brow as she seated
herself in the old rush-bottomed chair.

I'll fetch it here," said Uncle Luke, and

he went round to the back, to return directly
with the second half of the conger.

There," said the old man eagerly, " how
much for that '? "

Oh, I can't buy half a conger, Mr. Luke
Vine, sir ; and I don't know as I'd have took
it if it had been whole."

"Then be off, and don't come bothering
me," grunted the old man snappishly.

"Don't be cross, master; you've no call to
be. You never have no rashly troubles to
worry you."

•' No, nor don't mean to have. What's the
matter now ? "

My gal ! "

Serve you right. No business to have
married. You never saw me make such a
fool of myself."

No, master, never ; but when you've got
gals you must do your best for 'em."

"Humph! what's the matter?"

Poll Perrow looked slowly round the ill-furnished,
untidy place.

You want a woman here, Master Luke
Vine, sir," she said at last.

Don't talk nonsense ! "

It aren't nonsense. Master Luke Vine, and
you know it. You want your bed made

proper, and your washing done, and your
place scrubbed. Now wdiy don't you let my
gal come up every morning to do these
things ? "

Look here' said Uncle Luke, " what is it
you mean ? "

She's got into a scrape at Mr. Vine's, sir
something about some money being missing
and I suppose she'll have to come home, so
I want to o'er her something do."

Oh, she isn't honest enough for my brother's
house, but she's honest enough for mine."

Oh, the gal's honest enough. It's all a
mistake. But I can't afford to keep her at
home, so, seeing as we'd had dealings together,
I thought you'd oblige me and take her here."

Seeing as we'd had dealings together ! "
grumbled Uncle Luke.

'' Everything is so untidy-like, sir," said the
old fish-dealer, looking round. "Down at
your brother's there's everything a gentleman
could wish for, but as to your place — why,
there : it's worse than mine."

Look here, Poll Perrow," said the old
eccentricity fiercely, " this is my place, and I
do in it just as I like. I don't want your
girl to come and tidy my place, and I don't
want you to come and bother me, so be off.

There's a letter ; take it down and post it forme
: and there's a penny for your trouble."

"Thank ye, master. Penny saved is a
penny got ; but Mr. George Vine would have
given me sixpence — I'm not sure he wouldn't
have given me a shilling. Miss Louise would."

Uncle Luke was already pointing at the
door, towards which the woman moved unwillingly.


Let me come up tomorrow and ask you,
Mr, Luke, sir. Perhaps you'll be in a better
temper then."

Better temper I " he cried wrathfully.
''Vm. always in a better temper. Because I
refuse to ruin myself by having your great,
idle girl to eat me out of house and home, I'm
not in a good temper, eh ? There, be off I or
I shall say something unpleasant."

I'm a-going, sir. It's all because I wouldn't
buy half a fish, as I should have had thrown
on my hands, and been obliged to eat myself.
Look here, sir," cried the woman, as she adjusted
the strap of her basket, "if I buy the
bit of fish will you take the poor gal then ? "

No ! " cried Uncle Luke, slamming the
door, as the woman stood with her basket
once more upon her back.

Humph ! " exclaimed the old woman, as

she thrust the penny in her pocket, and then
hesitated as to where she should place the
letter.

While she was considering, the little window
was opened and Uncle Luke's head appeared.

Mind you don't lose that letter."

Never you fear aljout that," said the old
woroan ; and as if from a bright inspiration
she pitched it over her head into her basket,
and then trudged away.

'•' She'll lose that letter as sure as fate,'^
grunted Uncle Luke. "Well, there's nothing
in it to mind. Now I suppose I can have a
little peace, and — Who's this ? "

He leaned a little farther out of his window,
so as to bring a curve of the cliff-path well
into view.

•'' My beautiful nephew and that parasite.
Going up to Leslie, I suppose — to smoke.
Waste and debauchery — smoking"

He shut the window sharply, and settled
himself down with his back to it, determined
not to see his nephew pass ; but five minutes
later there was a sharp rapping at the door.

•'•' L'ncle Luke ! L'ncle ! "

The old man made no reply.

•'' Here, Uncle Luke. I know you're at
home ; the old woman said so."

Hand' that old woman ! " o-rumbled Uncle
Luke ; and in response to a fresh call he rose,
and opened his door with a snatch.

Now then, what is it ? I'm just going to
bed."

Bed at this time of the day ? " cried Harry
cheerfully. " Why you couldn't go to sleep if
you did go."

'•' Why not ? " snapped the old man ; " you
can in the mornings — over the lesser."

Harry winced, but he turned off the malicious
remark with a laugh.

"Uncle loves his joke, Pradelle," he said.
Come, uncle, I don't often visit you ; ask
Is in."

No, you don't often visit me, Harry," said
the old man, looking at him searchingly ; '' and
when you do come it's because you want
something."

Harry winced again, for the old man's words
cut deeply.

Oh, nonsense, uncle ! Pradelle and I were
having a stroll, and we thought we'd drop inhere
and smoke a cigar with you."

"Very kind," said the old man, looking
meaningly [from one to the other. " Missed
meeting the girls, or have they snubbed you
and sent you about your business ? "

'' Have a cigar, uncle ? " said Harry, holding
out bis case. '' I tell you we came on purpose
to see you."

Humph ! " said Uncle Luke, taking the
handsome morocco cio;ar-case, and turnings it
over and over with great interest. " How
much did that cost ? "

Don't remember now ; fifteen shillings I
think."

Ah," said Uncle Luke, pressing the snap
and opening it. " One, two, three, four ; how
much do these cigars cost ? "

Only fourpence, uncle ; can't afford better
ones."

And a cig-ar lasts — how honor ? "

"Oh, I make one last three-quarters of an
hour, because I smoke very slowly. Try
one."

No, thanks ; can't afford such luxuries,
my boy," said the old man, shutting the case
with a snap, ad returning it. " That case and
the cigars there cost nearly a pound. Your
income must be rising fast."

Harry and Pradelle exchanged glances. The
reception did not promise well for a loan.

Cigar does you good sometimes."

Harry," said the old man, laughing and
pointing at the case.

VOL. I.

What's the matter, uncle ? " said Harry
eagerly ; " want one ? "

No, no. Why didn't you have it put on
there ? ''

'' What ? "

Crest and motto, and your title — Comte
des Yicrnes. You mis^ht lose it, and then
people would know where to take it."

'^ Don't chaff a fellow, uncle," said Harry,
colouring. " Here, we may come and sit
down, mayn't we ? "

"Oh, certainly, if your friend will condescend
to take a seat in my homely place."

Only too happy, Mr. Luke Vine."

Are you now ? Shouldn't have thought
it," sneered the old man. " No wine to offer
you, sir ; no brandy and soda ; that's the stuff
young men drink now, isn't it ? "

Don't name it, my dear sir ; don't name
it," said Pradelle, with an attempt at heartiness
that made the old man half close his eyes.
Harry and I only came up for a stroll.
Besides, we've just dined."

Have you ? That's a good job, because
I've only a bit of conger in the house, and
that isn't cooked. Come in and sit down, sir.
You, Harry, you'll have to sit down on that
old oak chest."

Anywhere will do for me, uncle. May we
smoke ? "

"Oh, yes, as fast as you like ; it's too slow
a poison for yoa to die up here."

Hope so," said Harry, whose mission and
the climb had made him very warm.

Now, then," said Uncle Luke, fixing his

eves on Pradelle — like o-imlets, as that gentleman

observed on the way back ; 'what is it ? "

••'Eh? I beg pardon; the business here is

Harry's."

Be fair, Vic," said Harry, shortly ; " the
business appertains to both."

Does it really," said Uncle Luke, with a
mock display of interest.

"Yes, uncle," said the nephew, uneasily, ashe
sat twiddlino* the gold locket attached to
his chain, and his voice sounded husky ; " it
relates to both."

Eeally ! " said Uncle Luke, with provoking
solemnity, as he looked from one to the other.
'•'AVell, I was young myself once. Now, look
here ; can I make a shrewd guess at what you
avant \

'•' I'll be bound to say you could, sir," said
Pradelle, in despite of an angry look from
Harry, who knew his uncle better, and foresaw
a trap.

O 2

Then I'll guess," said the old man, smiling
pleasantly ; " you want some money."

"Yes, uncle, you're right," said Harry, as
cautiously as a fencer preparing for a thrust
from an expert handler of the foils.

Hah ! I thought I was. Well, young
men always were so. Want a little money
to spend, eh ?"

Well, uncle, I "

"Wait a minute, my boy," said the old
man, seriously ; " let me see. I don't want
to disappoint you and your friend as you've
come all this way. Your father wouldn't let
you have any, I suppose ? "

Haven't asked him, sir."

"That's right, Harry," said the old man,
earnestly ; " don't, my boy, don't. George
always was close with his money. Well, I'll
see what I cau do. How much do you want
to spend — a shilling ? "

' Hang it all, uncle ! " cried Harry angrily,
and nearly tearing off his locket, " don't talk
to me as if I were a little boy. I want a
hundred pounds."

Yes, sir, a hundred pounds," said Pradelle.

"A hundred, eh? A hundred pounds.
Do you, now ? " said Uncle Luke, without
seeming in the slightest degree surprised.

The fact is, uncle, my friend Pradelle here
is always hearing of openings for making a
little money by speculations, and we have a
cLcince now that would make large returns for
our venture."

"Hum! hah!" ejaculated Uncle Luke, ashe
looked at Pradelle in a quiet, almost appealing
way. " Let me see, Mr. Pradelle.
You are a man of. property, are you not ! "

Well, sir, hardly that," said Pradelle ,nonchalantly
; and he rose, placed his elbows on
the rough chimney-piece, and leaned back
with his legs crossed as he looked down at

o

L'ncle Luke. '*' My little bit of an estate

brings me in a very small income."
"Estate here?"

Xo, no ; in France, near Marseilles."
That's awkward ; a long way off."
Go on," said Pradelle with his eyes, as he

glanced at Harry.

'•' Xo good. Making fun of us," said

Harry's return look ; and the old man's eyes

glistened.

Hundred pounds. Speculation, of course ? "
Hardly fair to call it speculation, it is so

safe," said Pradelle, in face of a frown from

his friend.

Hum ! A hundred pounds — a hundred

pounds," said Uncle Luke thoughtfully. " Ita
good deal of money."

Oh, dear me, no, sir," said Pradelle. " In
business matters a mere trifle."

Ah ! you see I'm not a business man.
Why don't you lend it to my nephew, Mr.
Pradelle r'

I— I'm— well— er— really, I— The fact
is, sir, every shilling I have is locked up."

"Then I should advise you to lose the key,
Mr. Pradelle," chuckled the old man, " or you
may be tempted to spend it."

*' You're playing with us, uncle," cried
Harry. " Look here, will you lend me a
hundred ? I promise you faithfully I'll pay
it to you back."

Oh ! of course, of course, my dear
boy."

Then you'll lend it to me ? "

Lend you a hundred ? My dear boy, I
haven't a hundred pounds to lend you. And
see how happy I am without ! "

"Well, then, fifty, uncle. Li make that
do."

Come, I like that, Harry," cried the old
man, fixing Pradelle with his eye. " There's
something frank and generous about it. It's
brave, too ; isn't it, sir ? "

Ye, sir. Harry's as frank and good-hearted
a lad as ever stepped."

Thank you, Mr. Pradelle. It's very good
of you to say so."

Come along, Vic," said Harry.

'' Don't hurry, my dear boy. So you have
an estate in France, have you, Mr. Pradelle ? "

Yes, sir."

Humph ; so has Harry — at least he will
have some day, I suppose. Yes, he is going
to get it out of the usurper's hands — usurper
is the word, isn't it, Harry ? "

Harrv save a kick out with one leo.

"Yes, usurper is the word. He's going to
get the estate some day, Mr. Pradelle ; and
then he is croinf]f to be a Count. Of course he
will have to give up being Mr. Van Heldre's
clerk then."

*' Look here, uncle," cried the young man
hotly; '"'if you will not lend me the money,
you needn't insult me before my friend."

Insult you, my dear boy ? Not I. What
a peppery fellow you are ! Now your aunt
will tell you that this is your fine old French
aristocratic blood effervescing ; but it can't be
crowd for you."

Come along, Vie," said Harry.

'' Oh, of course," said Pradelle. " I'm sorry,

though. Fifty pounds isn't much, sir ; perhaps
you'll think it over."

Eh ? think it over. Of course I shall.
Sorry I can't oblige you, gentlemen. Good
evening."

Grinning at us all the time — a miserable
old miser ! " said Harry, as they began to
walk back. " He'd have done it if you hadn't
made such a mess of it, Vic, with your free-and-easy
way."

It's precious vexatious, Harry ; but take
care, or you'll sling that locket out to sea,"
said Pradelle, after they had been walking
for about ten minutes. " You'll have to think
about my proposal. You can't go on like
this."

No," said Harry fiercely ; " I can't go on
like this, and I'll have the money somehow."


Bravo ! That's spoken like a man who
means business. Harry, if you keep to that
tone, we shall make a huge fortune apiece.
How will you get the money ? "

I'll ask Duncan Leslie for it. He can't
refuse me. I should like to see him say ' No.'
He must and he shall."

Then have a hundred, dear lad. Don't
be content with fifty''

I will not, you may depend upon that,"
cried Harry, " and "

He stopped short, and turned white, then
red, and took half-a-dozen strides forward
towards where Madelaine Van Heldre ^v^as
seated upon one of the stone resting-places ina
niche in the cliff — the very one where
Duncan Leslie had had his unpleasant conversation
with Aunt Marguerite.

The presence of his sister's companion, in
spite of their being slightly at odds, might
have been considered pleasant to Harry Vine ;
and at any other time it would have been, butin
this instance she was bending slightly
forward, and listening to Duncan Leslie, who
was standing with his back to the young
men.

Only a minute before, and Harry Vine had
determined that with the power given by
Leslie's evident attachment to his sister, he
would make that gentleman open his cash-box
or write a cheque on the Penzance bank for a
hundred pounds.

The scene before him altered Harry Vine's
ideas, and sent the blood surging up to his
broil.

He stepped right up to Madelaine, giving
Leslie a furious france as that gentleman

turned, and without the slightest preface,
exclaimed —

Look here, Madelaine, it's time you were
at home. Come along with me."

Madelaine flushed as she rose ; and her lips
parted as if to speak, but Leslie interposed.

Excuse me, Miss Van Heldre, I do not
think you need reply to such a remark as
that."

Who are you ? " roared Harry, bursting
into a fit of passion that was schoolboy-like in
its heat and folly. " Say another word, sir,
and ril pitch you off the cliff into the sea."

"Here, steady, old fellow, steady!" whispered
Pradelle ; and he laid his hand on his
companion's arm.

You mind your own business, Vic ; and as
for you "

He stopped, for he could say no more.
Leslie had quite ignored this presence, turning
his back and offering his arm to Madelaine.

Shall I walk home with you. Miss Van
Heldre '? " he said.

For answer, and without so much as looking
at Harry Vine, Madelaine took the offered
arm, and Pradelle tightened his hold as the
couple walked away.

The grasp was needless, for Harry's rage

was evaporating fast, and giving place to a
desolate sensation of despair.

"Look here," said Pradelle ; 'you've kicked
that over. You can't ask him now."

No," said Harry, gazing at the departing
figures, and trying to call up something about
the fair daughters of France ; "no, I can't ask
him now."

"' Then look here, old fellow, T can't stand
by and see you thrown over by everybody
like this. You know what your prospects are
on your own relative's showing, not mine ;
and you know what can be done if we have
the money. You are not fit for this place,
and I say you shall get out of it. Now then,
you know how it can be done. Just a loan
for a few weeks. Will you, or will you not ? "

Harry turned upon him a face that was
ghastly pale. '' But if," he whispered hoarsely,
''if we should fail?"

Fail ? You shan't fail."

One hundred," said Harry, hoarsely.

Well, I suppose so. We'll make that do.
Now then, I'm not going: to waste time. Is it
yes or no ? "

Harry Vine felt a peculiar humming in the
head, his mouth was hot and dry, and his lips
felt parched. He looked Pradelle in the ftice.

as if pleading to be let off, bat there was only
a cunning, insistent smile to meet him there,
and once more the question came in a sharp
whisper,

'' Yes or no ? "

Yes," said Harry ; and as soon as he had
said that word, it was as if a black cloud had
gathered about his life.

MY aunt's bete noire.

Duncan Leslie was a sturdy, manly young
fellow in his way, but he had arrived at a
weak period. He thought over his position,
and what life would become had he a wife at
home he really loved ; and in spite of various
displays of reserve, and the sneers, hints, and
lastly the plain declaration that Louise was to
marry some French gentleman of good family
and position, Duncan found himself declaring
that his ideas were folly one hour, and the
next he was vowing that he Twould not give
up, but that he would win in spite of all the
Frenchmen on the face of the earth.

'' I must have a walk," he used to say. " If
I stop poring over books now, I shall be quite
thick-headed tomorrow. A man must study
his health."

So Duncan Leslie studied his health, and
started off that evening in a different direction

to the Vines' ; and then, in spite of himself,
began to make a curve, one which grew smaller
and smaller as he walked thoughtfully on.

I don't see why I should not call," he said
to himself. " There's no harm in that. Wish
I had found some curious sea-anemone ; I could
go and ask the old man what it was — and have
her sweet clear eyes reading me through and
through. 1 should feel that I had lowered
myself in her sight."

No," he said, emphatically ; ''' I'll be
straightforward and manly over it if I can."

Hang that old woman ! She doesn't like

o

me. There's a peculiarly malicious look in her
eyes whenever wee meet. Sneering fashion,
something like her old brother, only he seems
honest and she does not. I'd give something
to know whether Louise cares for that French
fellow. If she doesn't, why should she be
condemned to a life of misery ? Could I
make her any happier ? "

I'll go home now."

'' No, \—l will not ; I'll call."

These questions had been scattered over
Duncan Leslie's walk, and the making up of
his mind displayed in the last words was
three-quarters of an hour after the first.

I'm no better than a weak boy," he said,

as lie strode along manfully now. ''' I make
mountains of molehills. What can be more
natural and neighbourly than for me to drop
in, as I am going to do, for a chat with old
Vine ? "

There was still that peculiar feeling of
consciousness, though, to trouble him, as he
knocked, and was admitted by Liza, whose
eyelids were nearly as red as the ribbon she
had bought.

The next minute he was in the pleasant
homely drawing-room, feeling a glow of love
and pride, and ready to do battle with any
De Ligny in France for the possession of the
prize whose soft warm hand rested for a few
moments in his.

Ah, Miss Van Heldre," he said, as he
shook hands with her in turn, and his face lit
up and a feeling of satisfaction thrilled him,
for there was something in matter-of-fact
Madelaine that gave him confidence.

Aunt Marguerite's eyes twinkled with satisfaction,
as she saw the cordial greeting, and
built up a future of her own materials.

"Miss Marguerite," said the young man
ceremoniously, as he touched the extended
hand, manipulated so that he should only
grasp the tips ; and, as he saluted, Leslie

could not help thinking philosophically upon
the different sensations following the touch
of a hand.

A growing chill was coming over the visit,
and Leslie was beo^inninor to feel as awkward
as a sturdy well-grown young tree might, if
suddenly transplanted from a warm corner to
a situation facing an iceberg, when the old
naturalist handed a chair for his visitor.

"Glad to see you, Leslie," he said; "sit
down."

You will take some tea, Mr. Leslie ? "

Hah ! The moment before the young man
had felt ready to beat an ignominious retreat,
but as soon as the voice of Louise Vine rang
in his ears with that simple homely question,
he looked up manfully, declared that he would
take some tea, and in spite of himself glanced
at Aunt Marguerite's tightening lips, his eyes
seeming to say, " Now, then, march out a
brigade of De Lignys if you like."

And sugar, Mr. Leslie ? "

And sugar," he said, for he was ready to
accept any sweets she would give.

Then he took the cup of tea, looked in the
eyes that met his very frankly and pleasantly,
and then his own rested upon a quaint-looking
cornelian locket, which was evidently French.

There was nothing to an ordinary looker-on
in that piece of jewellery, but somehow it
troubled Duncan Leslie : and as he turned to
speak to Aunt Marguerite, he felt that she
had read his thoughts, and her lips had relaxed
into a smile.

Well, George, if you do not mind Mr.
Leslie hearing, I do not," said Aunt Marguerite.
" I must reiterate that the poor boy
is growing every day more despondent and
unhappy."

Nonsense, Margaret ! "

"Ah, you may say nonsense, my good
brother, but I understand his nature better
than you. Yes, my dear," she continued,
such a trade as that carried on by Mr. Van
Heldre is not a suitable avocation for your
son."

'•' Hah ! " sighed Vine.

Now, you are a tradesman, Mr. Leslie — "
continued Aunt Marguerite.

^' Eh ? I, a tradesman ? " said Leslie, looking
at her wonderingly. " Yes, of course : I
suppose so ; I trade in copper and tin."

^' Yes, a tradesman, Mr. Leslie ; but you
have your perceptions, you have see, and
you know my nephew. Now, answer me
honestly, is Mr. Van Heldre's business suit-vol.

I. p

able to a young man with such an ancestry as
Henri's ? "

Louise watched him wonderingly, and her
lips parted as she hung upon his words.

'swell, really, madam," he began.

Ah," she said, " you shrink. His French
ancestors would have scorned such a pursuit."

Oh, no," said Leslie, " I do not shrink ;
and as to that, I think it would have been
very stupid of his French ancestors. Trading
in tin is a very ancient and honourable business.
Let me see, it was the Phoenicians,
was it not, who used to come to our ports
for the metal in question ? They were not
above trading in tin and Tyrian dye."

Aunt Marguerite turned up her eyes.

^' And a metal is a metal. For my part, it
seems quite as good a pursuit to trade in tin
as in silver or gold."

Aunt Marguerite gave the young man a
pitying, contemptuous look, which made
Louise bite her lip.

*' Aunt, dear," she said hurriedly, " let me
give you some more tea."

I was not discussing tea, my dear, but
your brother's future ; and pray, my dear
child," she continued, turning suddenly upon
Madelaine with an irritating smile, " pray do

not think I am disparaging your worthy father
and his business affairs."

Oh, no, Miss Vine."

Miss Marguerite Vine, my child, if you
will be so good. Oh, by the way, has your
father heard any news of his ship ? "

Not yet, Miss Marguerite," said Madelaine
quietly.

Dear me, I am very sorry. It would be so
serious a loss for him, Mr. Leslie, if the ship
did not come safe to port."

Yes, of course," said Leslie ; " but I should
suppose. Miss Van Heldre, that your father is
well insured."

"Yes," said Madelaine quietly.

There, never mind about Van Held reship,"
said Vine pleasantly. '' Don't croak like
a Cassandra, Margaret ; and as to Harry, a year
or two in a good solid business will not do him
any harm, eh, Leslie % "

I should say it would do him a work of
good."

My nephew is not to be judged in the
same light as a young man who is to be
brought up as a tradesman," said Aunt Marguerite,
with dignity.

Only a tradesman's son, my dear."

The descendant of a long line of ennobled

P 2

gentry, George ; a fact you always will forget,"
said Aunt Marguerite, rising and leaving the
room, giving Leslie, who opened the door, a
Minuet de la Contr courtesy on the threshold,
and then rustling across the hall.

Her brother took it all as a matter of course.
Once that Marguerite had ceased speaking the
matter dropped, to make way for something
far more important in the naturalist's eyes —
the contents of one of his glass aquaria ; but
Louise, to remove the cloud her aunt had left
behind, hastily kept the ball rolling.

Don't think any more about aunt's remarks,
Madelaine. Harry is a good fellow,
but he would be discontented anywhere
sometimes."

"I do not think he would be discontented
now," she replied, "if his aunt would leave
him alone."

It is very foolish of him to think of what
she says."

Of course it is irksome to him at first,"
continued Madelaine ; " but my father is not
exacting. It is the hours at the desk that
trouble your brother most."

I wish I could see him contented," sighed
Louise. " I'd give anything to see him settle
down."

A very simple wish, which went right to
Duncan Leslie's heart, and set him thinking
so deeply that for the rest of his visit he was
silent, and almost constrained — a state which
Madelaine noted as she rose.

■'•' Must you go so soon, dear ? " said Louise
consciously, for a terrible thought crossed her
mind, and sent the blood survivor to her cheeks
Madelaine was scheming to leave her and
the visitor alone.

Yes ; they will be expecting me back,"
said madeline, smiling as she grasped her
friend's thoughts ; and then to herself, " Oh,
you stupid fellow ! "

For Leslie rose at once.

And I must be o^oing; too. Let's see, I am
walking your way, Miss Van Heldre. May I
see you home ? "

'•' Yes, do, Mr. Leslie," said Louise quietly.

'•' Ah : I will," he said hastily. " I want a
chat with your father, too."

Madelaine would have avoided the escort,
but she could only have done this at the
expense of making a fuss ; so merely said
Very well ; " and went oft' with Louise to put
on her hat and mantle, leaving Leslie alone
with his host, who was seated by the window

with a watchmaker s glass in his eye, making
use of the remaining light for the study of
some wonderful marine form.

She would give anything to see her brother
settled down," said Leslie to himself, over andover
again. " Well, why not % "

Five minutes later he and Madelaine were
going along the main street, with Louise
watching them from behind her fathers
chair, and wondering why she did not feel
so happy as she did half an hour before ;
and Aunt Marguerite gazing from her open
window

Ah ! " said the old lady ; '' that's better.
Birds of a feather do flock together, after
all."

But the flocking pair had no such thoughts
as those with which they were given credit,
for directly they were outside, Duncan Leslie
set Madelaine's heart beating by his first
words.

^' Look here," he said, *' I want to take
you into my counsel. Miss Van Heldre, because
you have so much sound commonsense."


Is that meant for a compliment, Mr.
Leslie ? "

No ; I never pay compliments. Look

here," he said bluntly, " you take an interest
in Harry Vine."

Madelaine was silent.

'' That means yes," said Leslie. " Now to
be perfectly plain with you, Miss Van Heldre,
so do I ; and I want to serve him if I
can."

Yes ? " said Madelaine, growing more
deeply interested.

Yes, it is — as the sailors say. Now it's
very plain that he is not contented where
e IS.

I'm afraid not."

What do you say to this ? — I will not be a
sham — I want to serve him for reasons which
I dare say you guess ; reasons of which I
am not in the least ashamed. Now what do
you think of this ? How would he be with
me 5

Madelaine flushed with pleasure.

I cannot say. Is this a sudden resolve ? "

Quite. I never thought of such a thing
till I went there."

"Then take time to think it over, Mr.
Leslie."

Good advice ; but it is a thing that requires
very little thought. I cannot say what arrangements
I should make — that would require

consideration — but I should not tie him to a
desk. He would have the overlooking of a
lot of men, and I should try to make him as
happy as I could."

Oh, Mr. Leslie 1 " said Madelaine, rather
excitedly.

Pray do not think 1 am slighting your
father, or looking down upon what he has
done, which, speaking as a blunt man, is very
self-sacrificing''

'' As it would be on your part."

'' On mine ? Oh, no," said Leslie frankly.
'' When a man has such an arrive pense as I
have, there is no self-sacrifice. There, you see
I am perfectly plain."

^' And I esteem you all the more for it."

The conversation extended, and in quite a
long discussion everything was forgotten but
the subject in hand, till Leslie said : —

There, you had better sit down and rest
for a few minutes. You are quite out of
breath."

Madelaine looked startled, for she had
been so intent upon their conversation that
she had not heeded their going up the cliff
walk.

'•' Sit down," said Leslie ; and she obeyed.
Get your breath, and we'll walk back to your

house together ; but what do you think of it
all ? "

'•' I cannot help thinking that it would for
many reasons be better."

'• So do I," Sciid Leslie, '' in spite of the risk."

'•' Risk ? "

'• Yes. Suppose I get into an imbroglio with
Master Harry ? He's as peppery as can be.
How then ? "'

•'• You will be firm and forbearing," said
Madelaine gravely. '' I have no fear""

Well, I have. I know myself better than
you know me," said Leslie, placing a foot on
the seat and resting his arm on his knee, ashe
spoke thoughtfully. '•' I am a very hotheaded
kind of Highlander by descent, and
there's no knowing what might happen. Now
one more Question. Shall I open fire on your
father to-night ? "

'• That requires more consideration," said
Madeline. " AVe will talk that over as we go
back. Here is Harry," she said quickly, as
that gentleman suddenly burst upon them ;
and the walk back to Van Heldre's was accomplished
without the discussion.

'• I'm afraid I've made a very great mistake,
Miss Van Heldre," said Leslie, as they neared
the house.

*' Don't say that," she replied. " It was
most unfortunate."

'but you will soon set that right?" he
added, after a pause.

I don't know," said Madelaine quietly.
You will come in 1 "

No ; not this evening. We had better
both have a grand think before anything is
said."

Yes," said Madelaine ; and they parted at
the door — to think.

Why, John," said Mrs. Van Heldre, turning
from the window to gaze in her husband's
face, " did you see that ? "

Yes," said Van Heldre shortly ; " quite
plainly."

But what does it mean ? "

Human nature."

'^ But I thought, dear "

'' So did I, and now I think quite differently."


Well, really, I must speak to Madelaine :
it is so "

Silence ! " said Van Heldre sternly.
Madelaine is not a child now. Wait, wife,
and she will speak to us."

m A WEST COAST GALE.

** That project is knocked over as if it
were a card house," said Duncan Leslie, as he
reached home, and sat thinking of Louise and
her brother.

He looked out to see that in a very short time
the total aspect of the sea had changed. The
sky had become overcast, and in the dim light
the white horses of the Atlantic were displaying
their manes.

Very awkward run for the harbour tonight,"
he said, as he returned to his seat.
Can't be pleasant to be a ship-owner. I
wonder whether Miss Marguerite Vine would
consider that a more honourable way of making
money ? "

Yes, a tradesman, I suppose. AVell, why
not ? Better than being a descendant of some
feudal gentleman whose sole idea of right was
might."

My word ! " lie exclaimed ; ^' what a sudden
gale to have sprung up. Heavy consumption
of coal in the furnaces to-night. How this
wind will make them roar."

He faced round to the window and sat listening
as the wind shrieked, and howled and
beat at the panes, every now and then sending
the raindrops pattering almost as loudly as
hail. " Hope it will not blow down my chimney
on the top yonder. Hah ! I ought to be
glad that I have no ship to trouble me on a
night like this."

No," he said firmly, just as the wind had
hurled itself with redoubled fury against the
house ; *' no, she does not give me a second
thought. But I take heart of grace, for I can
feel that she has never had that gentle little
heart troubled by such thoughts. The Frenchman
has not won her, and he never shall if I
can help it. It's a fair race for both of us, and
only one can win."

My word ! What a night ! "

He walked to the window and looked out at
the sombre sky, and listened to the roar of the
rumbling billows before closing his casement
and ringing.

Is all fastened ? " he said to the servant.
You need not sit up. — I don't believe a dog

would be out to-niolit, let alone a human
being.

He was wrong; for just as he spoke a dark
figure encased in oil-skins was sturdily making
its way down the clifi'-path to the town. It
was hard work, and in places on the exposed
cliff-side even dan onerous, for the wind seemed
to pounce upon the figure and try to tear it off ;
but after a few moments' pause the walk
was continued, the town reached, and the
wind-swept streets traversed without a soul
being passed.

The figure passed on by the wharves and
warehouses, and sheltered now from the
wind made good way till, some distance
ahead, a door was opened, a broad patch of
light shone out on the wet cobble stones,
Crampton's voice said, " Good-night," and the
figure drew back into a deep doorway, and
waited.

The old clerk had been to the principal inn,
where, once a week, he visited his club, and
drank one glass of Hollands and water, and
smoked one pipe, talking mostly to one friend,
to whom if urged he would relate one old
story.

This was his one dissipation ; and afterwards
he performed one regular duty which

took him close up to the watching figure which
remained there almost breathless till Crampton
had performed his regular duty and gone
home.

It was ten minutes or a quarter of an hour
before he passed that watching figure, which
seemed to have sunk away in the darkness
that grew more dense as the gale increased.

Morning at last, a slowly breaking dawn,
and with it the various sea-going men slowly
leaving their homes, to direct their steps ina
long procession towards one point where the
his^h cliff face formed a shelter from the southwest
wind, and the great billows which rolled
heavily in beneath the leaden sky. These
came on with the regularity of machinery, to
charge the cliffs at which they leaped with a
hiss and a roar, and a boom like thunder,
followed by a peculiar rattling, grumbling
sound, as if the peal of thunder had been
broken up into heavy pieces which were rolling
over each other back toward the sea.

They were not pieces of thunder but huge
boulders, which had been rolled over and over
for generations to batter the cliff's, and then
fall back down an inclined plane.

Quite a crowd had gathered on the broad,
glistening patch of rugged granite, as soon

as the clay broke, and this crowd was ever
augmenting, till quite a phalanx of oil-skin
coats and tarpaulin hats presented its face to
the thundering sea, while men shouted to each
other, and swept the lead-coloured horizon
with heavy glasses, or the naked hand-shaded
eye, in search of some vessel trying to make
the harbour, or in distress.

She bites, this morning," said one old
fisherman, shaking the spray from his dripping
face after looking round the corner of a mass
of sheltering rock.

Ay, mate, and it aren't in me to tell you
how glad I am my boat's up the harbour with
her nose fast to a buoy," said another.

'• There'll be bidders and orphans in some
ports 'fore nightfall."

'•' And thank the Lord that won't be in
Hakemouth."

I dunno so much about that," growled a
heavy-looking man,' with a fringe of white
hair round his face. " Every boat that sails
out of this harbour ain't in port."

'•' That it is. Why, what's yer thinking
about ? "

'Bout Van Heldre's brig, my lad."

"Ah," chorused half-a-dozen voices, 'ewe
didn't think o' she."

*' Been doo days and days," said the white-fringed
old fisherman; "and if she's out
yonder, I say, Lord ha' mercy on 'em all,
Amen."

"Not had such a storm this time o' year
since the Cape mail were wrecked off the Long
Chain."

Ah, and that wasn't so bad as this. Bound
to say the brig has put into Mount's Bay."

And not a nice place either with the wind
this how. Well, my lads, I say there's blessings
and blessings, and we ought all to be
weary thankful as we ain't ship-owners with
vessels out yonder."

This was from the first man who had
spoken ; but his words were not received with
much favour, and as in a lull of the wind one
of the men had to use a glass, he growled
out,

Well, I dunno 'bout sending one's ship to
sea in such a storm, but I don't see as it's
such a very great blessing not to have one
of your own, freshly if she happened to be a
brig like Mast' Van Heldre's ! "

Hold your row," said a man beside him,
as he drove his elbow into his ribs, and gave
a side jerk of his head.

The man thus adjured turned sharply, and

saw close to him a surly-looking figure
clothed from head to foot in black mackintosh,
which glistened as it dripped with the showery
spray.

Ugly day, my lads."

Ay, ay, sir ; much snugger in port than
out yonder."

Boom! came a heavy blow from a wave,
and the offing seemed to be obscured now by
the drifting spray.

Van Heldre focussed a heavy binocular, and
gazed out to sea long and carefully.

'' Any one been up to the look-out ? " he
said, as he lowered his glass.

"Two on us tried it, sir," said one of the
men, "but the wind's offle up yonder, and
you can't see nothing."

Going to try it, sir ? " said another of the
group.

Van Heldre nodded ; and he was on his
way to a roughly-formed flight of granite
steps which led up to the ruins of the oldcastle
which had once defended the mouth
of the harbour, when another mackintosh-clothed
figure came up.

Ah, Mr. Leslie," said Van Heldre, looking
at the new-comer searchingly.

Good morning," was the reply, " or I

VOL. I. O

should say bad morning. There'll be some
mischief after this."

Van Heldre nodded, for conversation was
painful, and passed on.

Going up yonder ? " shouted Leslie.
There was another nod, and under the
circumstances, not pausing to ask permission,
Leslie followed the old merchant, climbing
the rough stone steps, and holding on tightly
by the rail.

Best look out, master," shouted one of
the group. " Soon as you get atop roost
across and kneel down behind the old parry-put."


It was a difficult climb and full of risk, for
as they went higher they where more exposed,
till as they reached the rough top which
formed a platform, the wind seemed to rush
at them as interlopers which it strove to sweep
off and out to sea.

Van Heldre stood, glass in hand, holding
on by a block of granite, his mackintosh
tightly pressed to his figure in front, and
filling out behind till it had a balloon-like
aspect that seemed grotesque.

I dare say I look as bad," Leslie muttered,
as, taking the rough fisherman's advice, he
bent down and crept under the shelter of the

ancient parapet, a dwarf breastwork, with
traces of the old crude bastions just visible,
and here, to some extent, lie was screened
from the violence of the wind, and signed to
Van Heldre to join him.

Leslie placed his hands to his mouth, and
shouted through them,

Hadn't sou better come here, sir ? "

For the position seemed terribly insecure.
They were on the summit of the rocky headland,
with the sides o^oino- on three sides sheer
down to the shore, on two of which sides the
sea kept hurling huge waves of water, which
seemed to make the rock quiver to its foundations.
One side of the platform was protected
by the old breastwork; on the opposite
the stones had crumbled away or fallen, and
here there was a swift slope of about thirty
feet to the cliff edge.

It was at the top of this slope that Van
Heldre stood crazinor out to sea.

o o

Leslie, as he watched him, felt a curious
premonition of danger, and gathered himself
together involuntarily, ready for a spring.

The danger he anticipated was not long in
making its demand upon him, for all at once
there was a tremendous trust, as if an atmospheric
wave had risen up to spring at the

Q 2

man standing on high as if daring the fury
of the tempest ; and in spite of Van Heldre's
sturdy frame he completely lost his balance.
He staggered for a moment, and, but for his
presence of mind in throwing himself down,
he would have been swept headlong down the
swift slope to destruction.

As it was he managed to cling to the rocks,
as the wind swept furiously over, and checked
his downward progress for the moment. This
would have been of little avail, for, buffeted
by the wind, he was gliding slowly down, and
but for Leslie's quickly rendered aid, it would
only have been a matter of moments before
he had been hurled down upon the rocks
below.

Even as he staggered, Leslie mastered the
peculiar feeling of inertia which attacked
him, and, creeping rapidly over the intervening
space, made a dash at the fluttering overcoat,
caught it, twisted it rapidly, and held on.

Then for a space neither moved, for it was
as if the storm was raoino- with redoubled
fury at the chance of its victim being snatched
away.

The lull seemed as if it would never come ;
and when it did Leslie felt afraid to stir lest
the fragile material by which he supported

his companion should give way. In a few
moments, however, he was himself, and shouting
so as to make his voice plainly heard — for,
close as he was, his words seemed to be swept
away as uttered — he uttered a few short clear
orders, which were not obeyed.

'•' Do you hear ? " he cried again, " Mr. Van
Heldre— quick ! "

Still there was no reply by voice or action,
and it seemed as if the weight upon Leslie's
Wrists was growing heavier moment by moment.
He yelled to him now, to act ; and what
seemed to be a terrible time elapsed before
Van Heldre said hoarsely —

"One moment: better now. I felt paralyzed."


There was another terrible pause, during
which the storm beat upon them, the waves
thundered at the base of the rock, and even
at that height there came a rain of spray
which had run up the face of the rock and
swept over to where they lay.

Xow, quick ! " said Van Heklre, as he lay
face downward, spread-eagle, as a sailor would
term it, against the face of the sloping granite.

What followed seemed to be a struggling
scramble, a tremendous effort, and then with
the wind shrieking round them, Van Heldre

reached the level, and crept slowly to the
shelter of the parapet.

Great heavens ! " panted Leslie, as he
lay there exhausted, and gazed wildly at his
companion. " What an escape ! "

There was no reply. Leslie thought that
Van Heldre had fainted, for his eyes were
nearly closed, and his face seemed to be drawn.
Then he realized that his lips were moving
slowly, as if in prayer.

Hah ! " the rescued man said at last, his
words faintly heard in the tempest's din.
Thank God ! For their sake— for their
sake."

Then, holding out his hand, he pressed
Leslie's in a firm strong grip.

Leslie," he said, with his lips close to his
companion's ear, '' you have saved my life."

Neither spoke much after that, but they
crouched there — in turn using the glass.

Once Van Heldre grasped his companion's
arm, and pointed out to sea.
A ship ? " cried Leslie.
No. Come down now."
Waiting till the wind had dropped for the
moment, they reached the rough flight of
steps, and on returning to the level found
that the crowd had greatly increased ; and

among them Leslie saw Harry Vine and his
companion.

Can't see un, sir, can you ? " shouted one
of the men.

Van Hvjldre shook his head.

"' I thought you wouldn't, sir," shouted
another. " Capt'n ^luskerry's too good a
sailor to try and make this port in such a
storm*'

Ay," shouted another. " She's safe behind
the harbour wall at Penzance."

I pray she may be," said Van Heldre.
Come up to my place and have some breakfast,
Leslie, but not a word, mind, about the
slip. I'll tell that my way."

•'•' Then I decline to come," said Leslie, and
after a hearty grip of the hand they parted.

■'"' I thought he meant Vine's girl," said Van
Heldre, as he walked along the wharves street''
but there is no accounting for these things."

I ought to explain to him how it was I
came to be walking with Miss Van Heldre,"
said Leslie to himself. " Good morning"

He had suddenly found himself face to face
with Harry, who walked by, arm in arm with
Pradelle, frowning and without a word, when
just as they passed a corner the wuncl came
with a tremendous burst, and but for Leslie's

hand Harry Vine must have gone over into
the harbour.

It was but the business of a moment, and
Harry seemed to shake off the hand which held
him with a tremendous grip and passed on.

Might have said thank you," said Leslie,
smiling. " I seem to be doing quite a business
in saving people this morning, only they are of
the wrong sex — there is no heroism. Hallo,
Mr. Luke Vine. Come down to look at the
storm ? "

Couldn't I have seen it better up at
home ? " shouted the old man. " Ugh ! what
a wind. Thought I was going to be blown
off the cliff. I see your chimney still stands,
worse luck. Going home ? "

No, no. One feels so much unsettled at
such a time."

"Don't go home then. Stop with me."

Leslie looked at the quaint old man in
rather an amused way, and then stopped with
him to watch the tumbling billows off the
point where his companion so often fished.

THE News.

The day wore on with the storm now lulling
slio-htlv. now increasing in violence till it
seemed as if the great rolling banks of green
water must end by conquering in their attack,
and sweeping away first the rough pier, and
then the little twin towns on either side of the
estuary. Nothing was visible seawards, butin
a maritime phiee the attention of all is
centred upon the expected, and in the full
belief that sooner or later there would be a
wreck, all masculine Hakemouth gathered in
sheltered places to be on the watch.

Van Heldre and Leslie came into contact
again that afternoon, and after a Ion 2^ look
seaward, the merchant took the young man's
arm.

Come on to my place," he said quietly.
You'll come too, Luke Vine ? "

"1? No, no," said the old fellow, shaking
his head. " I want to stop and watch the se-a
go down."

His refusal was loud and demonstrative, but
somehow there was a suggestion in it of a
request to be asked again.

Nonsense 1 " said Van Heldre. " You mayas
well come and take shelter for a while.
You will not refuse, Leslie ? "

Thanks all the same, but I hope you will
excuse me too," replied Leslie with his lips,
]3ut with an intense desire to go, for there was
a possibility of Louise being at the house with
Madelaine.

'^ I shall feel vexed if you refuse," said Van
Heldre quietly. " Come along, Luke, and dine
with us. I'm depressed and worried to-day ;
be a bit neighbourly if you can."

Oh, I'll come," said the old man ; 'but it
serves you right. Why can't you be content
as I am, instead of venturing hundreds and
hundreds of pounds in ships on the sea ? Here,
come along, Leslie, and let's eat and drink
all we can to help him, the extravagant
spendthrift."

Van Heldre smiled, and they went along to
the house together.

The boy in yonder at work? " said Uncle

Luke, driving; a war of his head toward the
office.

Yes," said Van Heldre, and ushered his
visitors in, the closed door seeming directly
after to shut out the din and confusion of the
wind-swept street.

There, throw your mackintoshes on that
chair," sai 1 Van Pledge ; and hardly had
Leslie o-ot rid of his than Mrs. Van Heldre
was in the hall, her short plump arms were
round Leslie's neck, and she kissed him
heartily.

'■' God Less you ! " she whispered with a
sob; and before Leslie had well recovered
from his surprise and confusion, Madelaine
was holding one of his hands in both of hers,
and looking tearfully in his face in a way
which spoke volumes.

'''' Ah, it's nice to be young and good-looking,
and well off'' said Uncle Luke. "Nobody
gives me such a welcome."

How can you say that ! " said Madelaine,
with a laugh. '' Come, Uncle Luke, and we're
very glad to see you."

x\s she spoke she put her hands on his
shoulders, and kissed his wrinkled cheek.

"Hah! that's like old times, Maddy," said
the grim-looking visitor, softening a little.

Why didn't you keep a nice plump little girl,
same as you used to be ? "

Madelaine gave him a smile and nod
but left the old man with her father, and
followed her mother and Leslie into the
dining-room.

So that's to be it, is it. Van, eh ? "

'' I don't know," was the reply. " It's all
very sudden and a surprise to me."

Angled for it, haven't you '? "

'singled'? No."

She has then. My dear boy, son of my
heart, the very man for my darling, eh ? "
chuckled Uncle Luke.

Be quiet, you sham cynic," said Van
Heldre dreamily. "Don't banter me, Luke,
I'm sorely ill at ease."

*' About money, eh ? " cried Uncle Luke
eagerly.

Money ? No ! I was thinking about those
poor fellows out at sea."

'' In your brig, eh ? Ah, 'tis sad. But that
money — quite safe, eh ? "

Oh yes, safe enough."

Oh, do come, papa dear," said Madelaine,
reappearing at the door. " Dinner is waiting."

"Yes, yes, we're coming, my dear," said
Van Heldre, laying his hand affectionately on

Uncle Luke's shoulder, and they were soon
after seated round the table, with the elder
visitor showing at times quite another side of
his character.

No allusion was made to the adventure of
the morning' but Leslie felt in the gentle
tenderness displayed towards him by mother
and daughter that much had been said, and
that he had won a very warm place in their
regard. In fact, in word and look, Mrs. Van
Heldre seemed to be giving him a home in her
motherly heart, which was rather embarrassing,
and would have been more so, but for
Madelaine's frank, pleasant way of meeting his
gaze, every action seemed to be sisterly and
affectionate but nothing more.

So Leslie read them, but so did not the
elders at the table.

By mutual consent no allusion was made to
the missing brig, and it seemed to Leslie that
the thoughts of mother and daughter were
directed principally to one point, that of
diverting; Van Heldre from Lis troublesome
thoughts.

"Ah, I was hungry," said Uncle Luke,
when the repast was about half over. " Very
pleasant meal, only wanted one thing to make
it perfect."

*' Why, my clear Luke Vine, why didn't you
speak ? What is it ? oh, pray say."

*' Society," said Uncle Luke, after pausing
for a moment to turn towards the window, a
gust having given it a tremendous slake. '' I
say, if I find my place blown away, can you
find me a dry shed or a dog kennel or something,
Leslie ? "

Don't talk such stuff, Luke Vine," cried
Mrs. Van Heldre. "Don't take any notice of
him, Mr. Leslie, he's a rich old miser and
nothing else. Now, Luke Vine, what do you
mean "? "

Said what I meant, society. Why didn't
you ask my sister to dinner ? She'd have set
us all right, eh, Madelaine ? "

Oh, I don't know," said Madelaine, smiling.

But I do," cried her mother ; " she'd have
set us all by the ears with her nonsense. You
are a strange pair."

We are — we are. Nice sherry this. Van."

Glad you like it," said Van Heldre, with
his eyes turned towards the window, as if he
expected news.

How a woman can be so full of pride and
so useless puzzles me."

Mamma I " whispered Madelaine, with an
imploring look.

Let lier talk, my clear," said Uncle Luke,
it doesn't hurt any one. Don't talk nonsense.
Van's wife. What nse could you make
of her ? She is like the thistle that grows up
behind my place, a good-looking prickly plant,
with a ball of down for a head. Let her be ;
you always get the worst of it. The more
you excite her the more that head of hers
sends out floating downy seeds to settle here
and there and do mischief. She has spoiled
my nephew Harry, and nearly spoiled my
niece."

Don't you believe it, Mr. Leslie," cried
Madelaine, with a long earnest look in her
eyes.

'^ Quite true. Miss Impudence," continued
Uncle Luke. " Always was a war between
me and the useless plants."

Well, I can't sit here silent and listen to
such heresy," cried Mrs. Van Heldre, shaking
her head. " Surely, Luke Vine, you don't call
yourself a useful plant."

Bless my soul, ma'am, then I suppose I'm
a weed ? "

Not you," said Van Heldre, forcing a show
of interest in the conversation.

Yes, old fellow, I am," said Uncle Luke,
holding his sherry up to the light, and sipping

it as if he found real enjoyment therein. " I
suppose I am only a weed, not a thistle, like
Margaret up yonder, but a tough-rooted,
stringy, matter-of fact old nettle, who comes
up quietly in his own corner, and injures no
one so long as people let him alone."

No, no, no, no ! " said Madelaine emphatically.


Quite right, Miss Van Heldre," said Leslie.

'•' Hear, hear ! " cried Van Heldre.

Stir me up, then, and see," cried the old
man grimly. " More than one person has
found out before now how I can sting, and —
Hallo ! what's wrong ? You here ? "

There had been a quick step in the long
passage, and, without ceremony, the door
was thrown open, Harry Vine entering, to
stand in the gathering gloom hatless and
excited.

He was about to speak. Van Heldre having
sprung to his feet, when the young man's eyes
alio-heed on Leslie and Madelaine seated side
by side at the table, and the flash of anger
which mounted to his brain drove everything
else away.

What is it ? " cried Van Heldre hoarsely.
Do you hear ? — speak ! "

There is a brio[ on the Conger Rock," said

Harry quickly, as if roused to a recollection of
that which he had come to say.

Yes, sir," cried another voice, as old
Crampton suddenly appeared. " And the
man has just run up to the office with the
news, for "

Well, man, speak out," said Van Heldre,
whose florid face was mottled with patches of
ghastly white.

They think it's ours."

'^I felt it coming," groaned Van Heldre,
as he rushed into the hall, Leslie following;
quickly.

As he hurriedly threw on his waterproof a
hand audit his, and turnings it was to see
Madelaine looking up imploringly in his eyes.

*' My father, Mr. Leslie. Keep him out of
danger, pray ! "

'• Trust me. I'll do my best," said the
young man quickly ; and then he awoke to
the fact that Harry Vine was beside him,
white with anger, an anger which seemed to
make him dumb.

The next minute the whole party were
struggling down the street against the hurt
wind, to learn from a dozen voices,
eager to tender the bad news, that the mist
of spray had been so thick that in the early

VOL. I. p.

gloom of evening the vessel had approached
quite unseen till she was close in, and directly
after she had struck on the dangerous rock, ina
wild attempt to reach the harbour, a task
next to impossible in such a storm.

HAEKY VINE SHOWS HIS BRIGHT SIDE.

The wreck of a ship on the threshold of
the home where every occupant is known, is a
scene of excitement beyond the reach of pen
to adequately describe ; and as the two young
men reached the mouth of the harbour, following
closely upon Van Heldre, their own
petty animosity was forgotten in the face of
the terrible disaster.

The nio'ht was coming; fast, and a liszt had
been hoisted in the rigging of the vessel, now
hard on the dangerous rock — the Iods^ arc of
a circle described by the dim star showing
plainly to those on shore the precarious position
of the unfortunate crew.

The sides of the harbour were crowded, in
spite of the tremendous storm of wind and
spray ; and, as Leslie followed the ship-owner,
he noted the horror and despair in many a
spray wet face.

R 2

As Van Heldre approached and was recognized
there was a cheer given by those
who seemed to take it for granted that the
owner would at once devise a way to save the
vessel from her perilous position ; and rescue
the crew whose lives were dear to many
gathered in agony around, to see, as it were,
their dear ones die.

Steps had already been taken, however, and
as the little party from Van Heldre's reached
the harbour it was to see the life-boat launched,
and a crew of sturdy fellows in their places,
ready to do battle with the waves.

It seemed to be a terrible task to row right
out from the comparatively calm harbour,
whose long rocky point acted as a breakwater,
to where the great billows came rolling in,
each looking as if it would engulf a score of
such frail craft as that which, after a little of
the hesitation of preparation, and amidst a
tremendous burst of cheering, was rowed out
into the middle of the estuary, and then
straight away for the mouth.

But they were not all cheers which followed
the boat. Close by where Leslie stood, with a
choking sensation of emotion in his breast, a
woman uttered a wild shriek as the boat went
off, and her hands were outstretched towards

one of the oilskin-cased men, who sat in his
price tugging stolidly at his oar.

That one cry, heard above the roaring of
the wind, the hiss of the spray, and the heavy
thunder of the waves, acted like a signal to let
loose the pent-up agony of a score of hearts ;
and wives, mothers, sisters, all joined in that
one wild cry, '' Come back ! "

The answer was a hoarse " Give way ! "
from the coxswain ; and the crew turned their
eyes determinedly from the harbour wall and
tutored at their oars.

CO

The progress of the boat was followed as
far as was possible by the crowd ; and when
they could go no farther, every sheltered spot
was seized upon as a coign of vantage from
which to watch the saving of the doomed crew.

Leslie was standing; close to the harbour

o

wall, sheltering his face with his hands as he
watched the life-boat fast nearing the mouth
of the harbour, where the tug of war would
commence, when he felt a hand laid upon his
arm.

He turned sharply, to find Madelaine at his
elbow, her hood drawn over her head and
tightly secured beneath her chin.

He hardly saw her face, though, for close
beside her stood another closely-hooded figure,

whose face was streaming with the spray, while
strand after strand of her dark hair had been
torn from its place by the wind, and refused to
be controlled.

'' Miss Van Heldre ! Miss Vine ! "

"Yes. Where is my father ? "

Here : talking; to this coastg^uardsman."

And I thought we had lost him," murmured
Madelaine.

But is it wise of you two ladies ? " said
Leslie, as he grasped Louise's hand for a
moment. " The storm is too terrible."

We could not rest indoors," said Louise.
My father is down here, is he not ? "

I have not seen him. You want some
better shelter."

No, no ; don't think of us," said Louise
excitedly ; " but if you can help in anyway
'^

You know I will," said Leslie earnestly.

Here, what are you two girls doing ? "
said a quick, angry voice. " Louie, I'm sure
this is no place for you."

Harry spoke to his sister, but his eyes were
fixed upon those of Leslie, who, however,
declined his challenge, as it seemed, to quarrel,
and glanced at the young man's companion.

At that moment the brothers Vine came up,

and there was no farther excuse for Harry's
fault-finding objections.

'•' Can't you young fellows do anything to
help ? " said Uncle Luke.

I wish you would tell us what to do, Mr.
Vines*' said Leslie coldly.

Just then Van Heldre turned to, and joined
them.

He is afraid the distance is too far," he
said dreamily, as if in answer to a question. .

•' For the boat, Mr. Van Heldre ? " cried
Louise.

Xo, no ; for the rocket apparatus. Ah !
A^ine," he continued, as he saw his old friend,
how helpless we are in such a storm ! "

Xo more was said. It was no time for
words. The members of the two families
stood together in a group watching the procuress
of the boat, and even Aunt Marguerite's
cold and sluQroish blood was moved enough
to draw her to the window, through whose
spray and salt-blurred panes she could dimly
see the tossing light of the brig.

It was indeed no time for words, and even
the very breath was held, to be allowed to
escape in a low hiss of exultation as the lifeboat
was seen to rise suddenly and swiftly up
a great bank of water, stand out upon its

summit for a few moments, and then plunge
down out of sight as the wave came on, deluged
the point, and roared and tumbled over in the
mouth of the harbour.

It was plain enough now ; the life-boat was
beyond the protection of the point ; and its
progress was watched as it rose and fell, slowly-growing
more distant, and at times invisible
for minutes together.

At such times the excitement seemed
beyond bearing. The boat, all felt, must
have been, swamped, and those on board left
tossing in the boiling sea. The catastrophe
of the wreck of the brig seemed to be swallowed
up now in one that was greater ; and
as Leslie glanced round once, it was to see
Louise and Madelaine clinging together, wild-eyed
and pale.

There she is ! " shouted a voice ; and the
life-boat was seen to slowly rise again, as a
hoarse cheer arose — the pent-up excitement of
the moment.

It seemed an interminable length of time
before the life-saving vessel reached the brisk,
and what followed during the next half-hour
could only be guessed at. So dark had it
become that now only the tossing light onboard
the doomed merchantman could be seen.

rising and falling slowly with rhythmical
regularity, as if those on board were waving
to those they loved a sad farewell.

Then at last a faint spark was seen for a
few moments before it disappeared. Again it
shone for a while and again disappeared.

One of the hawthorns in the lifeboat."

'' Coming back," said Van Heldre hoarsely.

With the crew, sir ? " cried Leslie.

Hah ! " exclaimed Van Heldre slowly ;
*' that we must see."

Another long time of suspense and horror.
A dozen times over that boat's lio;ht seemed
to have gone for ever, but only to reappear ;
and at last, in the darkness it was seen, after
a few minutes' tremendous tossing, to become
steady.

The life-boat was in the harbour once again,
and a ringing burst of cheers, that seemed
smothered directly after by the roar of the
storm, greeted the crew as they rowed up to
the landing-place, utterly exhausted, but bringing
with them two half-dead members of the
brig's crew.

All we could get to stir," said the sturdy
coxswain, "and we could not g-et aboard."

How many are there ? "

Seven, sir — in main-top. Half dead."

You should have stayed and brought them
off," cried Leslie frantically, for he did not
realize the difficulties of the task the men had
had to fulfil.

Who goes next ? " cried Van Heldre, as
the half-drowned men were borne, under the
direction of the doctor, to the nearest inn.

No one can't go again, sir," said the old
coxswain sternly. " It ain't to be done."

A crew must go again," cried Van Heldre.
We cannot stand here and let them perish
before our eyes. Here, my lads ! " he roared.
'' Volunteers ! "

'' Mr. Leslie ! My father," whispered Madelaine
; but the young mine-owner was already
on his way to where Van Heldre stood.

Do you hear ? " roared the latter. " Do as
you would be done by. Volunteers ! "

Not a man stirred, the j^eril was too great.

'' It's no good, master," said the old coxswain
; " they're gone, poor lads, by now."

'' No," cried Leslie excitedly ; '* the light is
there still."

Ay," said the coxswain, '' a lamp '11 burn
some time longer than a man's life. Here,
master, I'll go again, if you can get a crew."

Volunteers ! " shouted Van Heldre, but
there was only a confused babble of voices, as

women clung' to their men and held back those

o

who would have yielded.

'• Are YOU men ! " roared Leslie excitedly ;
and Madelaine felt" her arm grasped tightly.
I say, are you men, to stand there and see
those poor fellows perish before your eyes ! "

It's throwing lives away," cried a shrill
woman's voice.

Ay, go course," shouted a man angrily.

I'm going," roared Leslie. '' Only a
landsman. Now then, is there never a sailor
who will come ? "

There was a panting, spasmodic cry at Madelaine's
ear, one which she echoed, as Harry
Vine stepped up to Leslie's side.

"Here's another landsman," he cried excitedly.
" Now, Pradelle, come on ! "

There was no response from his companion,
who drew back.

No, no," panted Madelaine. '' Louie —
help me — they must not go."

Her words were drowned in a tremendous
cheer, for Van Heldre, without a word, had
stepped into the life-boat, followed by the two
young men.

Example is said to be better than precept.
It was so here, for, with a rush, twenty of the
sturdy Hakemouth fishers made for the boat.

and the crew was not only made up, but a
dozen men begged Van Heldre and the two
young men to come out and let others take
their places.

"No," said Leslie through his set teeth;
'' not if I never see shore again, Henry Vine."

Is that brag to Hector over me, or British
pluck ? " said Harry.

Don't know, my lad. Are you going
ashore ? "

Let's wait and see," muttered Harry, ashe
tied on the life-preserver handed to him.

"Harry, my boy !"

The young man looked up and saw his
father on the harbour walk

Hallo ! Father ! " he said sadly.

You are too young and weak. Let some
strong man go."

I can pull an oar as well as most of them,
father," he shouted ; and then to himself :
And if I don't get back — well — I suppose
I'm not much good."

Let him go," said Uncle Luke, as he held
back his brother. " Hang the boy, he has
stuff in him after all."

A busy scene of confusion for a few minutes,
and then once more a cheer arose, as the lifeboat,
well manned, parted the waters of the

liarl>our, and the lanterns forward and astern
shone with a dull glare as that first great wave
was reached, up which the boat glided, and
then plunged down and disappeared.

One long; hour of intense aofonv, but not for
those in the boat. The energy called forth,
the tremendous struggle, the excitement to
which every spirit was wrought, kept off
agony or fear. It was like being in the
supreme moments of a battle-charge, when in
the wild whirl there is no room for dread, and
a man's spirit carries him through to the end.

The agony was on shore, where women
clung together no longer weeping, but straining
their eyes seaward for the dancing lights
which dimly crept up each billow, and then
disappeared, as if never to appear again.

"Madelaine !"

"Louise!"

All that was said as the two girls clasped
each other and watched the dim last horns far
at sea.

Ah ! "

Then a loud groan.

I snowed it couldn't be long."

Then another deep murmur, whose strange
intensity had made it dominate the shrieks,
roars, and thunder of the storm.

The li^lit, which had been slowly waving;
up and down in the rigging of the brig, had
disappeared, and it told to all the sad tale —
that the mast had gone, and with it those who
had been clinging in the top.

But the two dim hawthorns in the life-boat
went on and on, the thunder of the surf on
the wreck guiding them. As the crew toiled
away, the landsmen sufficiently accustomed to
the use of the oar could pretty well hold their
own, till, in utter despair and hopelessness,
after hovering hours about the place where the
wreck should have been, the life-boat's head
was laid for the harbour lights ; and after a
fierce battle to avoid being driven beyond, the
gallant little crew reached the shelter given by
the long low point, but several had almost to
be lifted to the wharf.

A few jagged and torn timbers, and a
couple of bodies cast up among the rocks, a
couple of miles to the east, were all the traces
of Van Heldre's handsome brig, which had
gone to pieces in the darkness before the
life-boat, on its second journey, was half-way
there.

A BAD Night's WORK.

Oh, yes, you're a very brave fellow, no
doubt," said Pradelle. '• Everybody says so.
Perhaps if I could have handled an oar as well
as you did I should have come too. But look
here, Harry Vine ; all these find words butter
no parsnips. You are no better ofi" than you
were before, and you gave me your promise."

It was quite true : fine words buttered no
parsnips. Aunt Marguerite had called him
her gallant young hero ; Louise had kissed him
affectionately ; his father had shaken hands
very warmly ; Uncle Luke had given him a
nod, and Van Heldre had said a few kindly
words, while there was always a smile for
him among the fishermen who hung about
the harbour. But that was all ; he was still
Van Heldre's clerk, and with a dislike to his
position, which had become intensified since

Madelaine had grown cold, and her intimacy
with Leslie had seemed to increase.

Look here," said Pradelle ; '' it's time I
was off."

Why ? What for ? " said Harry, as they
sat among the rocks.

*' Because I feel as if I were being made a
fool"

'why, every one is as civil to you as can
be. My father "

Oh, yes ; the old man's right enough."

"My aunt."

"Yes, wish she wasn't so old, Harry, and
had some money ; I'd marry her."

"Don't be a fool"

Not going to be ; so I tell sou I'm off."

No, no, don't go. This place will be unbearable
when you are gone."

Can't help it, dear boy. I must do something
to increase my income, and if you will
not join in and make a fortune, why I must
go and find some one dio will."

But I dare not, Vic."

You gave me your word — the word of a
gentleman. I ask you to borrow the money
for a week or two, and then we would replace
it, and nobody be a bit the wiser, while we shall
be on the hide-road to fortune and fair France."

o

''• I tell you I dare not."
Then I shall do it myself."
No, that you shall not."
"Then you shall."
"I aren't."

Bah ! what a milksop you are ; you have
nothing' to care for here. Miss Van Heldre

o

has pitched you over because you are now her
father's clerk."

*' Let that be, please."

And taken up with Mr. Bagpipes."

*' Do you want to quarrel, Pradelle ? "

"Not I, dear boy ; Tm dumb."

He said no more on that subject, but
he had said enough. That was the truth
then. Madelaine had given him up on that
account, and the sting rankled in Harry's
breast.

Money goes to the bank every clay, you
say ? " said Pradelle.

Yes. Crampton takes it."

'* But that sum of money in notes ? How
much is there of that ? "

"Five hundred."

Why don't that go to the bank ? "

I don't know. A deposit, I think ; likely
to be called for."

May be ; but that's our game, Harry. The

TOL. I, S

other could not be managed without being
missed ; this, you see, is not in use."

Pradelle, it's madness."

'' Say Vic, dear boy,"

Well, Vic, I say it's madness."

'' Nothing of the kind. It's making use of
a little coin that you can get at easily. Why,
hang it, old fellow, you talk as if I were asking
you to steal the money."

Hush ! Don't talk like that''

"Well, you aggravate me so. Now, am I
trying to serve you, or am I not ?"

'' To serve me, of course."

Yes, and you behave like a child."

I want to behave like an honourable man
to my father's friend."

Oh, if you are going to preach I'm off."

*' I'm not going to preach."

*then do act like a man. Here is your
opportunity. You know what the old chap
said about the tide in the affairs of
men ? "

Harry nodded.

^' Well, your tide is at its height. You are
going to seize your opportunity, and then you
can do as you like. Why you might turn the
tables on Miss Madelaine."

If you don't want to quarrel just leave

her name alone*' said Harry, with a bulldog-like
growl.

Oh, 111 never mention it again if you like.
Xow, then, once for all, is it business ? "

Harrv was silent for a few minutes, and then
replied —

les.

*' Your hand on it."

Harry stretched out his hand unwillingly,
and it was taken and held.

I shall hold you to it now, my lad. Now,
then, when is it to be ? "

Oh, first opportunity."

'•'Xo; it's ooiiio' to be now — to-nicrht — as
soon as it's dark."

Nonsense, it must be some day — when
Crampton is not there."

That means it will not be done at all, for
Crampton never leaves ; you told me so.
Look here, Harry Vine, if you borrow the
amount then, and it's missed, of course you
are asked directly, and there you are. No,
my lad, you'll have to go to-night."

But it will be like housebreaker."

*' Bah ! You'll go quietly in by the back
way, make your way along the passage to Van
Heldre's room, take the keys down from the
hook "

S 2

"How did you know that the keys hung
there ? "

** Because, my dear little man, I have
wormed it all out of you by degrees. To
continue ; you will go down the glass passage,
open the office door, go to the safe, open that,
get the two hundred "

Two hundred ! You said fifty would do."

Yes, but then I said a hundred, and now
I think two will be better. Easier paid back.
You can work more spiritedly with large sums
than with small. You've got to do this, Harry
Vine, so no nonsense."

Harry was silent.

When you have the notes, you will lock
all up as before, and then if they are missing
before we return them, which is not likely,
who can say that you have been there ? Bah !
don't be so squeamish. You've got to do that
to-night. You have promised, and you shall.
It is for your good, my lad."

Yes, and yours," said Harry gloomily.

Of course. Emancipation for us both."

Harry was silent, and soon after they rose
and strolled back to the old house, wherethrough
the open window came the strains of
music, and the voices of Madelaine and Louise
harmonized in a duet.

"One less at Van Heldre's, lad. The old
man will be having his evening pipe, and the
doors o^^en. Nothing could be better. Half-past
nine, mind, while they are at tea. It will
be quite dark then."

Harrv was silent, and the two young: men
entered and sat down, their coming; seeming;
to cast a damp on the little party, for the
music was put aside and work taken up,
Alone being busy with some notes of his day's
observations of the actions of a newly-found
mollusc.

Tea was brought in at about a quarter past
nine, and Pradelle rose and went to the
window.

"AVhat a beautiful night, Harry," he said.
'coming for half an hour's stroll before
bed?'^

Don't you want some tea ? " said Harry,
loudly.

'' No. Do you ? "

No," said Harry shortly ; and he rose and
went out, followed by his friend.

You mean this then," he said, as soon as
they were out on the cliff.

"No; but you do. There is just time for
it, so now go."

Harrv hesitated for a few minutes, and then

strode off down toward the town, Pradelle
keeping step with him, till they reached the
street where a lane branched off, going round
by the back of Van Heldre's house, but on a
higher level, a flight of steps leading down
into the half garden, half yard, overlooked by
the houses at the back, whose basements were
level with Van Heldre's first floor.

The time selected by Pradelle for the carrying
out of his scheme happened to be Cramp-ton's
club night, and, according to his weekly
custom, he had gone to the old-fashioned inn
where it was kept, passing a muffled-up figure
as he went alone, the said fi o-ure turnings in
at one of the low entrances leading to dock
premises as the old clerk came out, so that he
did not see the face.

It was a trifling matter, but it was not the
first time Crampton had seen this figure loitering
about at night, and it somehow impressed
him so that he did not enjoy his one glass
of spirits and water and his pipe. But the
matter seemed to have slipped his memory
for the time that he was transacting[ his club
business, making entries and the like. Later
on it came back with renewed force.

Harry and Pradelle parted in the dark lane
with very few more words spoken, the understanding

being that they should meet at home
at half-past nine.

As soon as the former was alone, he walked
slowly on round the front of Van Heldre's
house, and there, according to custom, sat the
merchant, smoking his nightly pipe, resting
one arm upon the table, with the shaded lamp
shining down on his bald forehead, and a
thoughtful, dreamy look in his eyes. Mrs.
Van Heldre was seated opposite, working and
respecting her husband's thoughtful mood, for
he was in low spirits respecting the wreck of
his ship. Insurance made up the monetary
loss, but nothing could restore the poor fellows
who had crone down.

Harry stood on the opposite side, watching
thoughtfully.

It would be very easy," he said to himself.
" Just as we planned, I can slip round
to the back, drop in the garden, go in, take
the keys, get the money, lock up again, and
go and hang up the keys. Yes ; how easy for
any one who knows, and how risky it seems
for him to leave his place like that. But then
it is people's want of knowledge which forms
the safest lock."

Yes," he said, after a pause, as he stood
there in profound ignorance of the fact that

the muffled-up figure which had taken Cramp-ton's
attention was in a low dark doorway,
watching his every movement. '' Yes ; it would
be very easy ; and in spite of all your precious
gloss, Master Victor Pradelle, I should feel the
next moment that I had been a thief; and I'll
drudge as a clerk till I'm ninety-nine before
I'll do anything of the kind."

He thrust his hands into his pockets and
turned off down by the harbour side, and
hardly had he reached the water when Prae
walked slowly up to the front of the
house, noted the positions of those within by
taking his stand just beneath the arched doorway
opposite, and so close to the watcher that
they nearly touched.

The next moment Pradelle had passed on.

I knew he hadn't the pluck," he muttered
bitterly. " A contemptible hound ! AVell, he
shall see."

Without a moment's hesitation, and as if he
were quite at home about the place, Pradelle
went round to the narrow back lane and stood
by the gate leading down the steps into the
yard. As he pressed the gate it gave way,
and he could see that the doorway into the
glazed passage was open, for the light in the
hall shone through.

There was no difficulty at all ; and after a
moment's hesitation he stepped lightly down,
ready with an excuse that he was seeking
Harry, if he should meet any one ; but the
excuse was not needed. He walked softly
and boldly into the passage, turned to his
right, and entered the back room, which acted
as Van Heldre's private office and study. The
keys lay where he knew them to be — in a
drawer, which he opened and took them out,
and then walked straight along the glazed
passage to the office. The door yielded to the
key, and he entered. The inner office was
locked, but that was opened by a second key,
and the safe showed dimly by the reflected
lights which shone through the barred
window.

How easy these things are ! " said Pradelle
to himself, as he unlocked the safe ; " enough
to tempt a man to be a burglar."

The iron door creaked faintly as he drew
it open, and then began to feel about hastily,
and with the perspiration streaming from his
forehead. Books in plenty, but no notes.

With an exclamation of impatience, he drew
out a little match-box, struck a light, and saw
that there was an iron drawer low down. The
flame went out, but he had seen enough, and

stooping lie dragged out the drawer, thrust in
his hand, which came in contact with a leaden
paper weight, beneath which, tied round with
tape, was a bundle of notes.

"Hah!" he muttered with a half laugh,
"' I can't stop to count you. Yes, I must, or
they'll miss 'em. It's tempting though.
Humph ! tied both "

Thud!

One heavy blow on the back of Victor
Pradelle's head which sent him stag-orerino^
forward against the door of the safe ; then
he felt in a confused, half-stunned way that
something had been snatched from his hand.
A dead silence followed, during which his
head swam, but he had sufficient sense left
to totter across the outer office, and along the
passage to the garden yard.

How he got outside into the little lane he
could not afterwards remember, his next recollection
being of sitting down on the steps
by the water-side bathing his face.

Five minutes before Harry Vine had been
in that very spot, from which he turned to go
home.

Let him say what he likes," muttered the
young man ; '' I must have been mad to listen
to him. Why "

Harry Yiue stopped short, for a thought
had struck him like a flash.

How it was — why he should have such a
suspicion he could not tell ; but a terrible
thought had seemed to burn into his brain.
Then he felt paralyzed as he shivered, and
uttering an ejaculation full of rage and anger,
he started off at a run towards Van Heldre's
place.

"Nonsense!" he said to himself, and he
checked his headlong speed. " What folly ! "

Pie walked on past a group of seamen, who
had just quitted a public-house, and was about
to turn up the lane which led to his home,
when the thought came once more.

Curse him ! " he said, half aloud, " Td
sooner kill him'' and hurrying back, he made
straight for the lane behind Van Heldre's.

The gate yielded, he stepped down quickly
into the yard, walked to the open door, looked
to the rio-ht toward the hall, and then to the
left toward the office. A dim light shone
down the passage, and his heart seemed to
stand still. The office door was open, and
without hesitation he turned down the passage
panting with horror, as he felt that his suspicions
were confirmed. He crossed the outer

roam, the inner door was shut, and entering
he paused for a moment.

Vic ! " he whispered harshly.

All was still.

Trembling now with agitation, he was
rapidly crossing to the safe when he stepped
on something which gave beneath his feet,
and he nearly fell headlong.

Recovering himself, he stooped down topick
up the heavy ebony ruler used by old
Crampton, and polished by rubs of his coat-tail
till it shone.

Harry felt giddy now with excitement, but
he went to the safe door, felt that it was
swung open, and groaning to himself, " Too
late, too late ! " he bent his head and felt for
the drawer.

Empty !

You scoundrel ! " he groaned ; ^' but he
shall give up every note, and "

Once more he felt as if paralyzed, for as be
turned from the safe he knew that he was not
alone in the office.

Caught in the act ! Burglary — the open
safe — the notes gone, who would believe in
his innocency ?

He could think of nothing else, as he heard

Van Helclre's voice in the darkness — one fierce
angry utterance — '"' Who's there ? "

He does not know me," flashed through
Harry Vine's brain.

*' You villain ! " cried Van Heldre, springing
at him.

It was the instinctive act of one smitten
by terror, despair, shame, and the desire to
escape — a mad act, but prompted by the
terrible position. As Van Heldre sprang at
him and grasped at his breast, Harry Vine
struck with all his might, the heavy ruler fell
with a sickening crash upon the unguarded
head, he felt a sudden tug, and with a groan
his father's friend sank senseless on the floor.

For one moment Harry Vine stood bending
over his victim; then uttering a hoarse sigh,
he leaped over the body and fled.

END OF VOLUME I.

OF Thun

Diversity

or ILLINOIS

The person charging this material is responsible for
its return to the library from which it was withdrawn
on or before the Latest Date stamped below.

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books are reasons for disciplinary
action and may result in dismissal from the University.
To renew call Telephone Center, 333-8400

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS LIBRARY AT URBANA-champaign

r^rr:

L161— O-1096

OF HIGH DESCENT,

YOL. II.

% Eobcl

GEORGE MANVILLE Penn,

AUTHOR OF " THIS MAX-wife," ETC.

IX Thee VOLUMES.
VOL. II.

|C anil en :

WARD AND DOWNEY,

12, YORK STREET, Covent GARDEN.

18S9.

[AU Rights reserved.]

CONTENTS OF VOLUME II.

CHAP. PAGE

I. IN THE BLACK SHADOW . . . 1

II. HARRY LOOKS THE FACT IN THE FACE . 12

III. THE PUNISHMENT BEGINS . . . 17

IV. UNCLE LUKE GROWS HARDER . . 36

V. THE TRIFLE THAT TELLS TALES . . 44

VI. ON THE RACK . . . . 50

VII. LESLIE MAKES A DECLARATION . . 66

VIII. A brother's APPEAL . . . 82

IX. IN DEFENCE OF HIS YOUNG . . 90

X. ON HIS BEHALF . . . . 98

XI. 'ein THE queen's NAME " . . . 112

XII. "oh! ABSALOM, MY SON, MY SON " . 119
XIII. "THE LORD GAVE, AND " . . 129

XIV. AT THE GRANITE HOUSE . . . 145

XV. GEORGE VINE ASKS FOR HELP . . 158

XVI. THE OLD WATCH-DOG . . . 168

XVII. Crompton REPORTS PROGRESS . . 174

XVIII. A TITLE OF HONOUR . . . 186

XIX. POLL Perron GOES A-begging . . 198

XX. A MEETING IN PAIN . . . 217

XXI. DUNCAN LESLIE SPEAKS OUT . . 227

XXII. AUNT marguerite MAKES PLANS . . 238

XXIII. A STARTLING VISITATION . . . 250

CHAPTER I.

IN THE BLACK SHADOW.

Mrs. Van Helter let her work fall in her
lap and gazed across at her husband.

I suppose Harry Vine will walk home
with Madelaine?" she said.

"Eh? Maddy? I'd forgotten her," said
Van Heldre, laying down his pipe. "'' No ; I'll
go up and fetch her myself."

'^ Do, dear, but don't stay."

Not I," was the reply ; and going out of
the dining-room, where he always sat when
he had his evening pipe, the merchant went
into the study, where by the dim light he saw
that his writing-table drawer was opera

How's that ? " he thought. " Did I— No."

VOL. II. B

He ran out into the passage, saw that his
office-door was open, and entered to receive
the blow which laid him senseless before the
safe.

Van Heldre did not lie there honos.

Crampton came away from the old him,
stick in hand, conscious of having done a
good evening's work over the business of the
Fishermen's Benefit Club, the men having
paid up with unusual regularity ; but all the
same, he did not feel satisfied. Those pedlar
sailor men troubled him. They had been
hanging about the town for some time, and
though he knew nothings against them, he
had, as a respectable householder, a confirmed
dislike to all nomadic trading gentry. To him
they were, whether Jew or Gentile, French or
German, all gipsies, and belonging to a class
who, to use his words, never took anything
out of their reach.

He felt sure that the man he had seen in
the darkness was one of . these, and blaming
himself now for not having taken further
notice of the matter, he determined to call
at his employer's on his way home to mention
the fact.

Better late than never," he said, and he
stumped steadily down the main street as a

man walks who is possessed of a firm determination
to do his duty.

As he went on he peered down every one
of the dark, narrow alleys which led to the
water-side places, all reeking of tar and old
cordage, and crested nets, and with more
than a suspicion of the celebrated ancient and
fish-like smell so often quoted.

"If I had my way," said Crampton, "I'd
have a lamp at each end of those places.
They're too dark — too dark."

But though he scanned each place carefully,
he did not see any lurking figure, and he went
on till he reached his employer's house, wherethrough
the well-lit window, he could see Mrs.
Van Heldre looking plump, rosy, and smiling,
as she busied herself in putting away her work.

Crampton stopped at the opposite side, took
off his hat and scratched his head.

"Now if I go and tell him what I think,
he'll call me a nervous old fool, and abuse
me for frightening his wife."

He hesitated, and instead of croino- to the
front door, feeling that perhaps, after all, he
had taken an exaggerated view of things, he
went on to the corner of the house and lane,
with the intention of having a look round and
then o'oiuo; on home.

B 2

He had just gone about half-way, when
there was a loud rap given by the gate leading
down into Van Heldre's yard. Some one
had thrown it violently back against the
wooden stop, and that somebody had sprung
out and run down the lane in the opposite
direction to that by which the old clerk had
come.

"Hah!" he ejaculated, and hurrying on
he hastily descended the steps, entered the
passage, and trembling now in every limb,
made his way into the office, where, with all
the regular method of the man of business,
he quickly took a box of matches from the
chimney-piece, and turned on and lit one of
the gas-burners.

The soft light from the ground-glass globe
showed nothing wrong as he glanced round.

Yes : something was missing — the heavy
ebony ruler which always reposed on the two
brass hooks like a weapon of war at the end
of his desk. That was gone.

Crampton's brow knitted, and his hands
shook so that he could hardly strike a second
match, as he pushed open the door and entered
the inner office, where, forcing himself not to
look round, lie lit another gas-jet before taking
in the scene at a glance.

There lay Van Heldre, bleeding profusely
from a terrible cut on the forehead, the safe
was open, and in a very few minutes the old
clerk knew that the packet of bank-notes was
ozone.

But I've got all their numbers entered,"
he said to himself, as he went down on his
knee by his master's side, and now, knowing
the worst, growing moment by moment more
calm and self-contained.

His first act was to take his voluminous
white cravat from his neck, and bind it tightly
round Van Heldre's temples to staunch the
bleeding.

I knew no good would come of it," he
muttered. *' I felt it from the first. Are you
much hurt, sir ? " he said aloud, with his lips
close to the injured man's ear.

There was no reply : just a spasm and a
twitching of the hands.

^'What shall I do?" thought Crampton.
Give the alarm ? No : only frighten those
poor women into fits. Fetch the doctor."

He hurried out by the back way as quietly
as he could, and caught the principal medical
man just as he was going up to bed for a
quiet night.

Eh ? Van Heldre ? " he said. " Bless my
soul ! On directly. Back way ? "

"Yes."

Crampton hurried out, displaying wonderful
activity for so old a man, and took the police
station on his way back.

The force in Hakemouth was represented by
a sergeant and two men, the former residing
at the cottage which bore the words " Police
Station " over the door.

'^ Where is your husband ? " said Crampton
to a brisk-looking woman.

On his rounds, sir'

I want him at our office. Can I find
him ? Can you "? "

I know where he'll be in about ten
minutes, sir," said the woman promptly, as
if she were a doctor's helpmate.

Very well," said Crampton. "Get him
and send him on."

The divergence had taken so long; that he had
hardly reached the office and poured out some
water from a table filter, to bathe the injured
man's face, when he heard the doctor's step).

"Hah!" said the latter, after a brief
examination, " we must get him to bed, Mr.
Crampton."

'' Is he much hurt, sir ? "
»" Badly. There is a fracture of the skull.
It must have been a terrible blow. Thieves,
of course ? "

Or thief, sir," said the old clerk, with his
lip quivering. " My dear master ! what would
his poor father have said ? "

Hush ! Be firm, man," said the doctor,
who was busy readjusting the bandage. " Does
Mrs. Van Heldre know ? "

Crampton shook his head.

I found him like this, sir, and came over
to fetch you at once."

But she must be told."

John, John dear, are you there ? I thought
you had gone on to fetch Madelaine."

Crampton rose hastily to try and bar the
way ; but he was too late. Mrs. Van Heldre
was at the door, and had caught a glimpse
of the prostrate man.

Doctor KnatchbuU ! what is the matter —
a fit ? "

The trouble was culminating, for another
voice was heard in the glass corridor.

Papa ! papa ! here is Mr. Vine. He
walked home with me. I made him come
in. Oh, what a shame to be at work so
late ! "

'' Keep her — keep her back," gasped Mrs.
Van Heldre, and then with a piteous sob she
sank down by Van Heldre's side.

John, my husband ! speak to me, oh,
speak," she moaned as she raised his head
to her hip.

Ah, you want Brother Luke to you, John
Van," cried Vine, as with Madelaine on his
arm he came to the door of the inner room.

There was a moment's silence, and then
Madelaine uttered a wild cry, and ran to her
father's side.

Good heavens ! Crampton, what is it ? "
cried Vine excitedly, — *' a fit ? "

No, sir, struck down by a villain — a thief
and that thief "

Crampton stopped short in the midst of
his excitement, for there was a heavy step
now in the passage, and the sergeant of police
and one of his men came in.

Yes. I've had my eye on a couple of
strangers lately," he said, as he took out a
book and gave a sharp look round. ^' Perhaps
Mr. Crampton, sir, you'll give me the information
I want."

Mr. Crampton will give you no information
at all," said the keen-looking doctor
angrily. *' The first thing is to save the

man's life. Here, sergeant, and you, my
man, help me to carry him up to his bed —
or no — well, yes, he'll be better in his own
room. Pray, ladies, pray stand aside."

Yes, yes," cried Madelaine excitedly, as
she rose. '"' Mother, dear, we must be calm
and helpful."

■'•■ Yes ; but — but — " moaned the poor woman.

Yes, dearest," cried Madeleine, " afterwards.
Dr. Knatchbull wants our help."

'•' Good girl," said the doctor, nodding.
'•'Get the scissors, some old linen, and basin,
sponge and water, in the bedroom."

"Yes, doctor," said Madelaine, perfectly
calm and self-contained now. "Mother, dear,
I want your help."

She knelt down. and pressed her lips for a
moment to her father's cheek, and then placed
her arm rouml her mother, and led her away.

An hour later, when everything possible
had been done, and Mrs. Van Heldre was
seated by her husband's pillow. Vine being
on the other side holding his friend's hand,
Madelaine showed the doctor into the next
room.

"' Tell me," she said firmly. " I want to
know the truth."

My dear child," said the doctor, '' you

know all that I know. Some scoundrel
must have been surprised by your father,
and "

Doctor," said Madelaine quietly, and with
her clear matter-of-fact eyes gazing into his,
I have been praying for strength to help
my mother and my poor father in this terrible
affliction. I feel as if the strength had been
given to me, so speak now as if I were a
woman whom you could trust. Tell me the
whole truth."

The doctor gazed at her with a look full
of admiration, and taking her hand, he said
kindly :

I was treating you as if you were a girl,
but I will tell you the truth. T am going to
telegraph to town for Mr. Weston ; there is a
fracture and pressure on the brain."

And great danger, doctor ? "

"Yes," he said, after a pause, 'sand great
danger. But, please God, my child, we will
save his life. He is a fine, strong, healthy
man. There : I can say no more."

"Thank you," said Madelaine calmly, and
she quietly left the room.

Any one might think that she did not
feel it," said the doctor slowly ; " but I know
better than that. It's wonderful what a

woman will suffer without making a semi. I
cannot telegraph till eight o'clock, but I mayas
well write mv message," he muttered, ashe
went downstairs. " Humph ! the news is
spreading;. Somebody come."

HARRY LOOKS THE FACT IN THE FACE.

Harry Vine checked his headlong pace
as soon as he was out of the lane, and walked
swiftly along by the harbour till he reached
the sea. Here, in the shelter of a rock, he
stooped down and lit a cigar, before throwing
himself on a patch of shingle, and holding his
temples with his hands, as he tried to quell
the tumult in his brain and to think calmly.

But it was in vain. He felt half mad, and
as if the best way out of his difficulty was to
go and leap into the sea.

Curse Pradelle ! " he groaned. " I wish
I had never seen him — coward, thief, cheat !
Oh, what am I talking about ? Why didn't
I face it, and tell Van Heldre the honest
truth ? I was innocent. No, no : I was as
bad as Pradelle, and he shall disgorge. Every
penny shall go back. If he says no, come
what may, I'll out with the whole truth."

I couldn't help it," he groaned after a
pause. " I'd give anything to have frankly
told the truth."

He walked quickly home, and assuming
a calmness he did not feel, entered the
drawing-room, where Louise was seated
reading.

'^ Your company gone ? " he said roughly.

Yes, dear. Papa has walked home with
Madelaine."

Harry turned sharply round, for he mentally
pictured in one agonizing thought the scene at
Van Heldre's home.

Is anything the matter ? " asked Louise.

"Matter? No. It's very dark outside,
and the light makes one's eyes ache. Seen
Pradelle ? "'

No, dear," said Louise gravely. " I thought
he went out with you."

Yes, of course, but he likes to go wandering
about the town. I wanted a quiet smoke
by the water-side. I'm tired. I think I shall
go up to bed."

Do, dear. I'll wait till papa comes."

Good-night."

Good-night, Harry dear," she said, rising,
and, putting her arms round his neck, she laid
her cheek to his. " Good-night, dear. Harry

darling, don't worry about the work. Do it
like a brave, true man ; it will make father so
happy."

There was a sudden catching sob in Harry
Vine's throat, as, like a flash, the memory of
old happy boy and girl days came back. He
caught his sister to his breast, and held her
tightly there as he kissed her passionately
again and again.

My darling brother ! " cried Louise as she
tightened her grasp about his neck. " And
you will try for all our sakes ? "

*' Yes, yes," he said in a hoarse whisper.

Never mind what poor aunt says. Be a
man — a frank, honourable man, Harry. It is
the order of the true haute noblesse after all.
You will try % "

Please God, yes, Lou — so hard — ah, so
hard."

That's like my dear brother once again,"
she cried, fondling him. " There, darling,
I'm speaking to you like our mother would.
Let me be young mother to you as well assister.
You will begin again ? "

Yes, yes, yes," he whispered hoarsely ;
*' from this moment, Lou, I will."

May I say more ? " she said gently, as her
hand played about his brow.

'•' Yes, anything, Lou ; anything. I've been
a fool, but that's all over now."

'•' Then about sh. Pradelle ? "

'•' Curse mr. Pradelle/*' he cried passionately.
I wish I had never brought him here."

'•' Don't curse, dear," said Louise, with a sigh
of relief. "' Yes, there has been an ugly cloud
over this house, but it is lifting fast, Harry
dear, and we are all going to be very happy
once ao-ain. Good-nio-ht."

o o

He could not speak ; something seemed to
choke him ; but he strained her to his heart,
and ran out of the room.

'•' Oh ! " ejaculated Louise ; and throwing
herself into a chair, she burst into a passion of
weeping ; but her tears were those of joy, and
a relief to her overburdened heart.

•'■' Is it too late ? " said Harry to himself, asa
cold chilly hand seemed to grasp his heart.
'■' Xo ; I can keep my own secret, and I will
turn over a new leaf now, and old Crampton
shall rule it for me. AYhat an idiot I have
been ! "

He shuddered as he recalled the scene in
Yan Heldre's office, and involuntary held his
hands close to the landing-lamp.

Poor old fellow ! " he said, as his hand
involuntarily went towards his vest ; " but

he'll soon get over that. He couldn't have
known me in the dark. I My locket ! "

He turned like ice as he gazed down to see
that the gold locket he wore at his watch-chain
had been torn off.

'' No, no ; I lost it when I threw myself
down on the shingle," he muttered, as he
fingered the broken link. " I could not have
lost it there."

Just then he started, for there was a faint
cough on his left.

'' Then he has come back," he cried hastily ;
and going a few steps along the passage he
tapped sharply, and entered Pradelle's room.

THE Punishment BEGINS.

Pradelle was seated iu a low chair with
his head resting on his hand. He looked up
curiously at Harry as the young man hastily
closed and locked the door.

"You've come at last, then," said Pradelle
sourly, as he winced from the pain he was in.

'• Yes, I've come at last," replied Harry.
Now, Pradelle, no nonsense ! There has been
enough of this. Adhere is the money ? "

Where's what ? "

*' The money — those notes."

I don't know what you mean."

Then 111 tell you plainly. I want five
hundred pounds in Bank of England notes,
stolen by you from Mr. Van Heldre's safe."

Pradelle sank back in his chair.

•' I like that," he said, with a low, sneering
laugh.

No nonsense. Give me those notes."

VOL. II. c

You mean you want to give me the
notes."

I mean what I say." cried Harry, in a low,
angry voice.

Why, you went and got them, as we
agreed."

I did not go and get them as we agreed."

Yes, you did, for I saw you."

'* How dare you, you lying cur ! " cried
Harry, seizing him by the throat and holding
him back against the chair. " Give me
the notes."

'* Don't ! don't ! You've hurt me enough
once to-night. Look ! my head's bleeding
now."

Harry loosened his grasp, for the fact was
patent.

^a— I hurt you?"

Yes, with that ruler. What made you
hit me like that ? Take me for old Van
Helter'

Harry's jaw dropped, and he stared wildly
at his companion.

'' I — I hit you ! " he faltered, as he struggled
with his memory and asked himself whether
he had stricken Pradelle down and not the old
merchant.

Well, I've got a cut two inches long and

my head all swollen up. What made you
do it ? "

'■' I — do it ! Here, what do you mean ? "

Mean ? Why, that you were so long
creating; the loan "

Say stealing the notes. It would be more
like the truth," said Harry shortly.

•'•' I won't. I say you were so long getting
the loan that I came to see what you were
about, and you flew at me and knocked me
down with the big ruler. Took me for a
watchman, I suppose''

But when ? — where ? " cried Harry excitedly.


Where ? By the safe ; inner office. What
a fool you were ! "

Impossible ! " thought Harry, as his confusion
wore off. " Look here," he cried aloud,
*' this is a mean, contemptible lie. You have
the money ; give it me, I say."

•'' Supposing I had it," snarled Pradelle,
"what for?"

"To restore it to its owner."

'•' Well, seeing that I haven't got the money,
I say you shall not give it back. If I had got
it I'd say the same."

"You have got it. Come, no excuses."

I tell you I haven't got a penny. You

C 2

struck me down after you had taken it from
the safe."

It's a lie ! " cried Harry fiercely. " I was
not going to do the accursed work, and I did
not strike you down."

Then look here," cried Pradelle, pointing
to his injured head.

I know nothing about that. You have the
money, and I'll have it before I leave this
room."

You'll be clever, then," sneered Pradelle.

Will you give it me "? "

''No. How can I?"

Don't make me wild, Pradelle, for Pm
desperate enough without that. Give me
those notes, or, by all that's holy, I'll go
straight to the police and charge you with
the theft."

^'Do," said Pradelle, "if you dare."

The man's coolness staggered Harry for the
moment.

If I'd got the money do you think I
should be fool enough to make all this fuss ?
What do you mean ? What game are you
playing ? Come, honour among — I mean, be
square with me. You've got the notes."

'' Ah ! " ejaculated Harry, with a look of
disgust. '' I tell you I have not."

Harry ! Harry ! "

It was his sister's voice, and he heard her
knocking sharply at his door.

•'•' Look here, Pradelle, you've got those
notes, and I tell you once more, you have to
give them up or it's a case of police."

He had been moving towards the door,
which he unfastened and threw open.

'•' I'm here, Louie," he said.

Quick, dear ! A message from papa. AYe
are to ^o on to Mr. Van Heldre's at once."

'•' Yan Heldre's '? " faltered Harry, whose legs
seemed to give way beneath him.

Yes, dear ; a policeman brought the
message."

A policeman ? "

Something is wroncr. Xo, no, don't turn
like that. It is not father, but ]Mr. Yan
Heldre, so the man said. I think it is a
fall''

Harry Yine's breath came thick and short.
AYhat should he do ? Fly at once ? No ; that
meant beings taken and brought ignominiously
back.

•' Don't hesitate, dear," said Louise ; " pray
come quickly."

*' Yes," said Harrv huskily. '*' Of course,
I'll come on. AYill you — you so first?"

*' Harry, what are you thinking, dear ?
Why do you look so shocked ? Indeed I am
not deceiving you."

Deceiving me ? "

No, dear : I am sure it is not papa who
is hurt. There, come along, and see — for
Madelaine's sake."

She said these last words very softly, almost
in a whisper ; but the only effect they had
upon him was to make him shudder.

What should he do — face the danger or
go ? He must face it ; he knew he must.
It was his only hope, and already his sister
was hurrying him to the door — his sister, perhaps
unconsciously to hand him over to the
police.

No," he said to himself, with an attempt
to be firm, " he could not have seen me ; but
was it after all Pradelle I struck down 1 "

A chill shot through him.

The locket torn from his watch-chain ?

Why, Harry dear, you seem quite upset."

Upset — I — yes, it is so sudden. I am a
bit — there, I'm all right now."

Poor Madelaine ! she must be in sad
trouble."

Greater than the speaker realized.

She was in the dining-room with the elder

Vine, and bung for a few moments on
Louise's neck to sob forth her troubles when
she entered. Then, without a word or look
at Harry, she hurried up-stairs.

'' Why did you not speak to her, Harry ? "
whispered Louise.

He made no reply, but sat listening to his
father, his eyes dilated and throat dry.

And — and do they suspect any one ? "
whispered the young man in a voice he did
not know for his own.

'^Xo : the police have been away since, and
they think they have a clue — two pedlars, who
have been about the place lately."

And mr. Van Heldre — is — is he badly
hurt 1 "

Very badly. It is doubtful whether he
can recover."

The young man's breath came and went ina
strange labouring way as he sat rigidly
upon his seat, while his father went on telling
him fact after fact that the son knew only too
well

"Poor Van Heldre! First the ship, then
this terrible calamity. Crampton tells me
that there was a sum of money deposited in
the safe — five hundred pounds in notes, and
all gone — every penny — all gone. Poor old

Crampton ! he almost worshipped Van Heldre.
He is nearly wild with grief. One minute he
scowled at me savagely ; the next minute
he was apologetic. It's a terrible business,
children. I thought you had better both
come on, for, of course, I could not leave
now."

Just then Mrs. Van Heldre came down,
looking red-eyed and pale, to take Louise to
her breast.

Thank you, my dear, thank you," she
sobbed ; "it was like you to come. And you
too, Harry Vine." She took and pressed the
young man's hand, which was dank and cold.
Then, in a quick access of gratitude, she laid
her hands upon his shoulders, and kissed
him.

'* Thank you, my dear," she said in a voice
broken with sobs. " You seem always to have
been like Maddy's brother. I might have
known that you would come."

If ever man suffered agony, that man was
Harry Vine as he listened to the poor simple-hearted
woman's thanks. His punishment had
commenced, and every time the door opened
he gave a guilty start, and turned white as
ash.

*' Don't take it like that, Harry," said

Louise tenderly. 'there is always hope,
dear."

She looked lovingly in his eyes, and pressed
his hand, as their father went on talking ina
low voice, and divino; utterance to his
thoughts.

"The scoundrels, as far as I can make out,
Harry, my boy, seem to have got in by the
back. The door was unfastened, and they
must have known a good deal about the place
by watching I suppose, for they knew whereto
find the keys, and how to open the safe."

Harry's breath came in a spasmodic way, ashe
sat there chained, as it were, to his place.

Five hundred pounds. A very heavy
sum. I must not blame him, poor fellow, but
I should have thought it a mistake to have so
large a sum in the house."

At last the doctor descended looking very
grave.

Ah, KnatchbuU," said Vine in an excited
whisper as he rose and caught the doctor's
hand ; '"' how is he ? "

The doctor shook his head.

Has he recovered his senses 1 "

'' No."

Nor said a word about who his assailants
were ? "

No, sir, nor is he likely to for some time
to come''

Harry Vine sat with his eyes closed, not
daring to look ; and, as the doctor's words
came, a terrible weight of dread seemed to be
lifted from his brain.

I may go up now, may I not ? "
No, sir, certainly not," said the doctor.
But we are such old friends ; we were
boys together, KnatchbuU."

If you where twin-brothers, sir, I should
say the same. Why, do you know, sir, I've
forbidden Mrs. Van Heldre to go into the
room. She could not control her feelings, and
absolute silence is indispensable."
Then he is alone ^ "

No, no ; his daughter is with him. By
George ! Mr. Vine, if I had been a married
man instead of a surly old soured bachelor, I
should be so proud and jealous of such a girl
as Miss Van Heldre that I should have been
ready to poison the first young fellow who
dared to think about her."

We are all very proud of Madelaine," said
Vine slowly. " I love her as if she were my
own child."

Humph ! your sister is not," said the
doctor dryly.

*' No, my sister is not," said the old man
slowly.

Then, now, Mr. Yine, if you please, I am
going to ask you people to go."

Go ? " said Vine, in angry remonstrance.

Yes ; you can do nothing. No change is
likely to take place perhaps for days, and with
Miss Yan Heldre for nurse and Crampton to
act as my help if necessary, there will be
plenty of assistance here. AYhat I want most
is quiet."

Harry, take Louise home," said the old
man quickly.

*' And you will go with their, sir."

'' Xo," said Yine quietly. " If I lay in my
room stricken down, John Yan Heldre would
not leave me, Knatchbull, and I am not Soin;
to leave him. Good-night, my children. Goat
once."

But Madelaine, father."

I shall tell her when she comes down that
you were driven away, but I shall send for
you to relieve her as soon as I may."

Louise stifled a sob, and the old doctor took
and patted her hand.

You shall be sent for, my dear, as soon as
you can be of use. lou are helping me in
going. There, good-night."

A minute later, hanging heavily on her
brother's arm, Louise Vine was walking slowly
homeward through the silent night. Her
heart was too full for words, and Harry
uttered a low hoarse sigh from time to time,
his lips never once parting to speak till they
reached the house.

To the surprise of both, on entering they
were confronted by Aunt Marguerite.

What does all this mean ? " she said
angrily. " Why did every one go out without
telling me a word ? "

Louise gently explained to her what had
befallen her father's friend.

Oh," said Aunt Marguerite, with a slight
shrug of the shoulders. " Well, it might have
been worse. There, I am very tired. Take
me up, child, to bed."

'^ Good-night, Harry ; you will go and lie
down," whispered Louise. " Good-night,
dear''

She clung to him as if the trouble had
drawn them closer, and then went into the
hall to light a candle.

Good-night, Henri," said Aunt Marguerite,
holding her cheek for the young man's mechanical
kiss. " This is very sad, of course,
but it seems to me like emancipation for

you. If it is, I shall not look upon it as a
calamity, but as a blessing for us all. Goodnight.
'"'

The door closed upon her, and Harry
Vine sat alone in the dining-room with his
hands clasped before him, gazing straightaway
into his future, and trying to see the
road.

'•' If I had but thrown myself upon his
mercy," he groaned ; but he knew that it was
impossible all through his regret.

What to do now ? Where to go ? Money ?
Yes ; he had a little, thanks to his regular
work as Van Heldre's clerk — his money that
he had received, and he was about to use it
to escape — where ?

God help me ! " groaned the unhappy man
at last ; " what shall I do ? "

He started up in horror, for the door-handle
turned. Had they found out so soon ? Was
he to be arrested now ?

- Harrv— Harrv ! "

A quick husky whisper, but he could not
speak.

Harry, why don't you answer ? What are
you staring at ? "

What do you want ? "

'•' Look here, old fellow ; I've been waiting

for you to come up — all these hours. What
have you found out ? "

*' That John Van Helclre was robbed tonight
of five hundred pounds in notes, and
you have that money."

'' I haven't, I tell you again, not a shilling
of it. Look here, what about the police ?
Have they put it in their hands ? "

The police are trying to trace the money
and the man who struck Van Heldre down.
Where is that money ? It must be restored."

Then you must restore it, for 1 swear I
haven't a single note. Hang it, man, have I
ever played you false ? "

Harry was silent. His old companion's
persistence staggered him.

'' I tell you once more, I went to the office
to see if you had got the loan, and was
knocked down. Curse it all ! is this true oris
it not ? "

He placed his head close to the light, and
Harry shuddered.

*' Don't believe me unless you like. I wish
I had never come near the place."

I wish so too," said Harry coldly.

There, don't talk like that, man. It has
turned out a failure, unless you have got the
coin — have you ? "

Have IV said Harry with utter loathing
in his voice. "' No ! "

You can believe me or not, as you like,
but I always was your friend, and always will
be, come what may. Xow, look here ; weare
safe to get the credit of this. If you
didn't fell me, some one else did. Van Heldre,
I suppose ; and now some one must have
knocked him down. Of course you'll say it
wasn't you"'

•'• Xo,"' said Harry coldly. '• I shall not say
it. I was by the safe, and he caught hold of
me. In my horror I hit at him. I wish he
had struck me dead instead."

"Don't talk like a fool. Now look here;
the game's up and the world's wide. We can
start at once, and get to St. Dree's station intime
to catch the up train ; let's go and start
afresh somewhere. You and I are safe to o-et
on. Come."

Harry made no reply.

'•' I've packed up my bag, and I'm ready.
Get a few things together, and let's go at once."

'ego— without'

Yes. Look sharp. Every minute now is
worth an hour."

Go sith Pradelle ! the man who had been
his evil genius ever since they had first met.

A feeling of revulsion, such as he had never
felt before, came over Harry Vine, and with a
voice full of repressed rage he cried : —

I'd sooner give myself up to the police."

Don't be a fool. I tell you to come at
once. It's now half-past two. Plenty of
time."

Then in Heaven's name go ! " said Harry ;
"and never let me see your face again."

You'll talk differently tomorrow. Will
you ; once more ? "

No."

Then I'm off. What do you mean todo?"


Wait."

Wait ? "

"Yes. I shall not try to escape. If they
suspect me, let them take me. I shall face
it all."

You'll soon alter your tune. Look here :
I've been true to you ; now you be true to me.
Don't set the police on to me. No, you will
not do that. You'll come after me ; and mind
this, you will always hear of me at the old
lodgings, Great Ormond Street."

Harry stood gazing straight at him, believing,
in spite of his doubts, that Pradelle had
not taken the money.

The idea was strengthened.

Look here ; I've only three half-crowns.
I can't go with that. How much have
you ? "

Thirty shillings."

Then come, and we'll share."

No."

Lend me half then. I'll manage with
that."

For answer Harry thrust his hand into his
pocket and took out all he had.

What, all ? " said Pradelle, as he took the
money.

There was no reply.

Once more. Will you come "? "

Silence !

Then I'm off."

Harry Vine stood gazing at vacancy, and
once more tried to see his own path in the
future, but all was dark.

One thing he did know, and that was that
his path did not run side by side with Victor
Pradelle's. His sister's words still rano^ in his
ears ; her kisses seemed yet to be clinging to
his lips.

** No," he said at last, moodily ; '"' I'll face
what there is to come alone. No," he groaned,
'•' I could not face it, I dare not."

VOL. II. D

He started guiltily and scared, for there was
the sound of a door closing softly.

He listened, and there was a step, but it
was not inside the house, it was on the shingle
path ; and as he darted to the old bay window,
he could see a shadowy figure hurrying down
the path.

Gone ! " he said in a low voice, " gone !
Yes, I'll keep my word — if 1 can."

He opened the casement window, and stood
there leaning against the heavy stone mullion,
listening to the low soft beating of the waves
far below. The cool air fanned his fevered
cheek, and once more the power to think
seemed to be coming back.

He had had no idea of the lapse of time,
and a flash of broad sunlight came upon
him like a shock, making him start away
from the window ; now lit up with the old
family shield and crest a blaze of brilliant
colour.

Eo?/ et Fool' he read silently ; and the
words seemed to mock him.

Henri Comte des Vignes, the plotter in a
robbery of the man who had been his benefactor.
Perhaps his murderer.

^' Comte des Vignes!" he said, with a
curious laugh. " Boy ! vain, weak, empty-headed

boy ! What have I done — what have
I done ? "

'' Harrv ! "

He started round with a cry to face his
sister.

"Not been to bed?"

No' he said wearily. " I could not
sleep."

She laid her hands upon his shoulders and
kissed him.

'• Neither could I," she said, '"' for thinking
of it all. Harry, if he should die ! "

He looked down into the eyes gazing so
questioningly into his, but his lips framed no
answer.

He was listening the echoing of his sis

o

ter's words, which seemed to go on and on
thrilling' through the mazes of his brain, an
infinitesimally keen and piercing sound at last,
but still so plain and clear —
'' If he should die f ''

D 2

UNCLE LUKE GROWS HARDER.

T WOULD not stop over these, my dears,"
said Vine, as they sat at breakfast, which was
hardly tasted, '' but if I neglect them they will
die."

He had a glass globe on the table, and from
time to time he went on feeding with scraps
of mussel the beautiful specimens of actiniae
attached to a fragment of rock.

We'll all go on directly and see if we can
be of any use. I'm glad Knatchbull called ashe
went by."

But what news ! " said Louise sadly. " It
seems so terrible. Only yesterday evening so
well, and now "

She finished her remark with a sob.

'' It is very terrible," said her father ; " but
I hope we shall soon hear that the villains are
caught. "

Harry sat holding the handle of his teacup
firmly, and gazing straight before him.

You'll go up to the office, of course, my
boy ? " said Vine.

Eh ? Go up to the office ? " cried Harry,
starting.

Yes, as if nothing had happened. Do all
you can to assist Crampton."

'eyes, father."

He was very Cjuiet and reserved when I
went in at seven ; quite snappish, I might say.
But he was too much occupied and troubled,
I suppose, to be very courteous to such an
old idler as I am. Ah ! " he continued, asa
figure passed the window, "here's Uncle
Luke."

A cold chill had run through Harry at the
mention of Crampton — a chill of horror lest
he should suspect anything ; and now, at the
announcement of his uncle's approach, he felt
a flush run up to his temples, and as if the
room had suddenly become hot.

'•' Morning," said Uncle Luke, entering
without ceremony, a rush basket in one hand,
his strapped-together rod in the other. '' Breakfast
? Late for breakfast, isn't it ? "

'' Xo, Luke, no ; our usual time," said his
brother mildly.

You will sit down and have some, uncle ? "

"No, Louie, no," he replied, nodding his
head and looking a little less hard at her.
I've had some bread and skim milk, and
I'm just off to catch my dinner. The idiot
know ? "

My dear Luke ! " said his brother mildly,
as Uncle Luke made a gesture upward towards
Aunt Marguerite's room ; " why will you
strive to increase the breach between you and
our sister ? "

Well, she tells every one that I'm mad.
"Why shouldn't I call her an idiot ? But nice
goings on, these. Wonder you're all alive."

Then you have heard ? "

Heard ? Of course. If I hadn't I could
have read it in your faces. Look here, sir," he
cried, turning sharply on his nephew, " where
were you last night ? "

Harry clutched the table-cloth that hung
into his lap.

I ? Last night ? " he faltered.

Yes ; didn't I speak plainly ? Where
were you last night ? Why weren't you
down at Van Heldre's, behaving like a man,
and fighting for your master along with your
henchman ? "

Uncle, dear, don't be so unreasonable,"

said Louise, leaning back and looking up in
the old man's face — for he had thrown his
basket and rod on a chair, and gone behind
her to stand stroking her cheek — " Harry was
at home with Mr. Pradelle."

'•' Pradelle, eh ? " said the old man sharply.
'^ Xot up ? "

"^h. Pradelle has gone," said Louise.
** Gone, eh ? " said Uncle Luke sharply.
'eyes," said his brother. "Mr. Pradelle
behaved very nicely. He left this note forme.


'• Note, eh ? Bank-note "

Harry winced and set his teeth.
•• Xo, no, Luke. Nonsense ! "
'nonsense ? I mean to pay for his board
and lodging all the time he has been here."

'' Absurd, Luke ! " said his brother, taking
up a liberal meal for a sea-anemone on the end
of a thin glass rod. '" He said that under the
circumstances he felt that he should be an
encumbrance to us, and therefore he had gone
by the earliest train."

'•' Like the sneak he is, eh, Harry ? "
The young man met his uncle's eyes for the
moment, and then dropped his own.

You'll kill those things with kindness,
Geoi'o-e. Anv one would think you were fattening

them for market. So Master Pradelle
has gone, eh ? Don't cry, Louie ; perhaps we
can coax him back."

He chuckled, and patted her cheek.

*' Uncle, dear, don't talk like that. We are
in such trouble."

About Van Heldre, that boy's master. Yes,
of course. Very sad for Mrs. Van and little
Madelaine. Leslie was down there as soon as
one of the miners brought up the news, trying
to comfort them."

Harry's teeth gritted slightly, but he relapsed
into his former semi cataleptic state, as
if forced to listen, and unable to move.

I like Leslie," said Vine sadly.

So do L At least, I don't dislike him
so much as I do some folks. Now if he had
been there, he'd have behaved better than you
did. Master Harry."

'' Uncle, dear, don't be so hard on poor
Harry."

Poor Harry ! Good job he is poor.
What's the good of being rich for thieves to
break through and steal ? "

"Ah! what indeed!" said his brother
sadly.

Look at Van Heldre, knocked on the head
and going to die."

Uncle ! "

Well, I dare say he will, and be at rest.
Knocked on the head, and robbed of five
hundred pounds. My money, every penny."

Yours, Luke ? " said his brother, pointing
at him with the glass rod.

Thanks, no, George ; give it to the sea-anemone.
I don't like raw winkle."

But you said that money was yours ? "

Yes ; a deposit ; all in new crisp Bank
of England notes, Harry. Taking care of it
for me till I got a fresh investment."

'■ You surprise me, Luke."

Always did. Surprised you more if
Margaret had had five hundred pounds to
invest, eh ? "

'•' Then the loss will fall upon you, uncle,"
said Louise sympathetically, as she took the
old man's hand.

Yes, my dear. But better have the loss
fall upon me than Crampton's heavy ebony
ruler, eh, Harry ? "

The young man looked once more in the
searching malicious eyes, and nodded.

Bad job though, Louie. I'd left poor
Harry that money in my will."

Oh, uncle ! " cried Louise, holding; his
hand to her cheek.

Yes ; but not a penny for you, pussy
There, it don't matter. I shan't miss the
money. If I run short, George, you'll give
me a crust, same as you do Margaret ? "

My dear Luke, I've told you a hundred
times, I should be glad if you would give up
that— that "

Dog kennel ? " sneered the old cynic.

That hut on the cliff, and come and share
my home."

Yes, two hundred times, I'll swear," said
Uncle Luke. " You always were weak, George.
One idiot's enough for you to keep, and very
little does for me. There's my larder," he
continued, pointing toward the sea ; " and as
to Harry here, he won't miss the money. He's
going to be the Count des Vignes, and take
Aunt Marguerite over to Auvergne, to live
in his grand chateau. Five hundred pound's
nothings to him."

The perspiration stood on Harry's brow,
cold and damp, and he sat enduring all this
torture. One moment he felt that his uncle
suspected him, the next that it was impossible.
At times a fierce sensation of rage bubbled up
in his breast, and he felt as if he would have
liked to strangle the keen-eyed old man ; but
directly after he felt that this was his punishment

called clown by this weakness and folly,
and that lie must bear it.

Going, Harry 1 " said his father, as the
young man rose.

Yes ; it is time I went on to the office."

Good boy. Punctuality's the soul of business,"
said Uncle Luke. " Pity we have no
corporation here. You might rise to be mayor.
Here, I don't think I shall go fishing to-day.
I'll stop, and go on with you two, to see old
Van. Louie, dear, go and tell your aunt I'm
here. She might like to come down and have
a snarl."

Uncle, dear," said Louise, rising and kissing
him, "you can't deceive me."

She went out after Harry.

"Not a pair, George," said Uncle Luke,
grimly. " Louie's worth five hundred of the
boy." ^ ^

He'd drive me mad, Lou, he'd drive me
mad," cried Harry, tearing his hand from his
sister's grasp, and hurrying away ; but only
to run back repentant and kiss her fondly
before going.

THE TRIFLE THAT TELLS TALES.

As Harry Vine left his father's house, and
hurried down the slope, he gazed wildly out
to sea. There were no thoughts of old Huguenot
estates, or ancient titles, but France lay
yonder over that glistening sea, and as he
watched a cinnamon-sailed lugger gliding
rapidly south and east, he longed to be aboard.

Why should he not do as Pradelle had done
escape from the dangers which surrounded
and hemmed him in '? It was the easiest way
out of his difficulties.

There were several reasons.

To go would stamp him with the crime,
and so invite pursuit. To do this was to disgrace
father and sister, and perhaps be taken
and dragged back.

When he reached the harbour, instead of
turning down to the left, by the estuary, he
made his way at once on to the shore, and

after a little hesitation, picked out the spot
where on the previous night he had thrown
himself down, half mad with the course he had
been called upon to take.

The engraved gold locket, with which his
nervous fingers had so often played, would
be lying somewhere among the stones ; perhaps
caught and wedged in a crevice. It was so
easy when lying prone to catch such an ornament
and snap it off without knowing. He
looked carefully over the heap of stones, and
then around in every direction ; but the locket
was not there.

It must be somewhere about," he said
angrily, as if he willed that it should ; but
there was no sign of the glittering piece of
wel-polished gold, and a suspicion that had
for a long time been growing, increased rapidly
in force, till he could bear it no longer, and
once more something; seemed to uroje him to



had clung so to that hope, shutting his
eyes to the truth, and going down to the
beach to search for the locket. Even when
he had not found it, he said that perhaps
some child had picked it up ; but there was
the truth now refusing to be smothered longer,
and he walked on hastily to reach Van

Heldre's office, so as to search for the locket
there. For it was the truth he had felt that
sudden snatch, that tug when the old merchant
dashed at him, and then fell. The locket was
torn off then. He might not be too late. In
the hurry and confusion it might not have
been seen.

The ordinary door of entrance to the offices
was closed, and at the house the blinds were
half drawn down. He felt that he could not
go to the front door. So after a little hesitation,
he went round into the back lane, and
with a strange sensation of dread, passed
through the gateway and down the steps into
the neatly-kept garden yard.

Everything was very still ; and Harry Vine,
with an attempt to look as if entirely bent
upon his ordinary task, went up to the door,
entered the glass corridor, as he had entered
it the night before, and by a tremendous
effort of will walked quickly into the outer
office.

The inner door was open, and after a hasty
glance round, he was in the act of crossing toit
when he found himself face to face with
the old clerk. For some moments neither
spoke — the old man gazing straight at Harry
with a peculiar, stony glare, and the latter, so

thrown off his balance that no words woukl
come.

Good iDorninof," he said at last.

The old man continued to stare as if lookiDo-

o

him through and through.

'' What do you want ? " he said at last.

Want ? It is past nine o'clock, and "

Go back. The office is closed"'

Go back ? " said Harry, troubled by the
old man's manner more than by the announcement
; for it seemed natural that the office
should be closed.

Yes, young man ; you can go back."

'' But "

*' I said, go back, sir — go back ! The office
is closed," said the old man fiercely ; and there
was something; menacing; in the manner of his
approach, as he backed his junior to the closed
door, and unlocked it and pointed to the street.

Mr. Crampton — " began Harry.

The old man looked at him as if he could
have struck him 'down, waved him aside, and
closed and locked the door.

Harry stood for a few moments thinking.
What could he do to gain an entrance there,
and have a C[uiet search of the place ? The
only plan open seemed to be to wait until
Crampton had gone away.

He had just come to this conclusion, after
walking a short distance along the street and
returning, when a fresh shock awaited him.
Van Heldre's front door was open, and Duncan
Leslie came out, walking quickly towards him,
but not noticing whom he approached till
they were face to face.

"Ah, Mr. Vine," he said, holding out his
hand ; " I had some thought of coming up to
you."

What for ? "

What for ? Surely at a time like this
there ought not to be a gap between friends.
I am afraid you misunderstood me the other
night. I am very sorry. There is my hand."

But trembling with that other anxiety,
Harry Vine had still the old sting of jealousy
festering in his breast. Leslie had just come
from Van Heldre's ; perhaps he had been
talking with Madelaine even there ; and,
io-noting the proffer, Harry bowed coldly and
was passing on, but Leslie laid his hand upon
his arm.

If I have been more in the wrong than
I think, pray tell me," said Leslie. " Come,
Vine, you and I ought not to be ill friends."

For a moment the desire was upon him
to grasp the extended hand. It was a time

when he was ready to cling to any one for
help and support, and the look in his eyes
changed.

Ah, that's better ! " said Leslie frankly.
I want to talk to you."

Why not go with him ? Why not tell
Leslie all, and ask his help and advice ? He
needed both sorely. It was but a moment's
fancy, which he cast aside as mad. What
would Leslie say to such a one as he ? And
how could he take the hand of a man who
was taking the place which should be his ?

Leslie stood still in the narrow seaport
street for a few moments, looking after Harry,
dio had turned off suddenly and walked away.

VOL. II.

ON THE RACK.

How was he to pass that day? At home
in a state of agony, starting at every word,
trembling at every knock which came to the
door ? He felt that he could not do that, and
that he must be engaged in some way to
crush down the thoughts which were fermenting
in his brain.

Certain now that he had lost the locket in
the slight struggle in the office, he literally
determined to leave no stone unturned, and
walked once more down to the beach, where
he went on searching, till glancing up he saw
Poll Perrow, the old fish-woman, resting her
arm on the rail at the edge of the cliff, looking
down at him, and apparently watching him.

That was sufficient to turn bim from his
c[uest, and he went ofi* hastily, and without
intent, to find himself upon the long, narrow.

pier-like point which acted as a breakwater to
the harbour.

He went on and on, till he reached the
end, where with the sea on three sides, and
the waves washing at his feet, he sat down
on one of the masses of rock as his uncle
so often took up his position to fish, and
watched the swirling current that ran so
swiftly by the end of the point.

How easy it would be," he thought, " to
step down off the end of the rock into the
sea, and be carried right away."

And disgrace them by acting like a
coward*' he said half aloud ; and leaping up
he walked swiftly back to the cliff, and then
went up the path that led to home.

At the door he met Louise and his father.

Back again, Harry ? " said the latter,
wonderingly.

Yes ; the place is shut up. No business
to-day," he said hastily.

Did you see Madelaine ? " asked Louise,
anxiously.

He shook his head.

Or poor Mrs. Van Heldre ? " said his
father.

Xo ; I thought it would worry them."

But you asked how Van Heldre was ^ "

E 2

*' No," said Harry, confusedly. " I — it
seemed a pity to disturb them."

Come back and make amends," said Vine
rather sternly. "They must not think we
desert them in their trouble."

But both you and Louise have been on
this morning."

'•'Yes, and would have stayed if it would
have helped them," said Vine. " Come."

Harry hung back for a moment, and then,
in the hope that he might be able to slip
away from them, and search the office in
Crampton's absence, he went on by their side.

To the surprise of all, as they reached the
house the door was opened by Crampton, who
stood scowling in the doorway, and barred the
way.

How is he now, Crampton ? " said Vine,
as Harry's heart began to palpitate with the
fear that all this was intended for him.

"Dying," said the old man, shortly.

"No, no, not so bad as that," cried Louise
and her father in a breath. " Doctor Snatch

said "

What doctors always say, Miss Louise,
that while there's life, there's hope. 'Isn't
true. There's often life and no hope, and it's
so here."

^' Cramptoii, you are taking too black a
view of the matter," said Vine, quickly. " It's
very good of you to be so much moved as his
old and faithful servant, but let's all, as* a
duty, look on the best side of think's."

There is no best side," said Crampton
bitterly. "The whole world's corrupt. AVell :
what do you people want to say ? "

"' To say ? We have come to be of help if
we can. Come, Louise, my dear."

He took a step forward, but the old man
stood fast.

You know all there is to know," said the
old clerk sourly, as he looked half angrily at
Vine, and then, totally ignoring Harry, he
turned his eyes on Louise, when the hard look
softened:! a little. "Send in by and by if you
want to hear, or Til send to you — if he dies."

Dies ! " cried Vine, with a start of horror,
No, no ; he is not so bad as that."

'■' As bad as a man can be to live."

*' You forget yourself, Crampton," said Vine,
with dignity. " You forget yourself. But
there, I can look over it all now. I know
what you must feel. Go and tell Mrs. Van
Heldre or Miss Madelaine that we are here."

The old man hesitated for a few moments,
and then drew back to allow Louise and her

father to pa-s ; but as Harry stepped forward
hastily to follow, the old man interposed, and
fiercely raised his hand.

^' No'" he said. *' I'm master now. Go
back! Go back!"

Harry shrank from him as Crampton stood
pointing down the street, and then strove hard
to master the abject sensation of dread which
made him feel that all the old man said was
true. He was master now ; and with an
angry gesture he turned and walked swiftly
away, to turn as he reached the end of the
street and see Crampton watching him
from the doorstep, and with his hand still
raised.

Am I such an abject coward that I am
frightened of that old man ? " he muttered,
as he recalled how only a few hours back he
used to treat him with a flippant condescending
contempt. " Yes, he's master now, and
means to show it. Why did I not go in
boldly ? "

He knew why, and writhed in his impotence
and dread. The task of keeping a bold face
on the matter was harder than he thought.
He wandered about the town in an objectless
way hour after hour, and then went home.
His father and sister had not returned, but

Aunt ]marguerite was down, ready to rise in
her artificial manner and extend her hand.

Ah, Henri, my child," she said ; " how
pale and careworn you look ! Where are they
all ? "

Van Heldre's," said Harry shortly.

Ah, poor man ! Very bad, I hear. Yes,
it's very sad, but I do not see ^^■hy his accident
should so reverse our regular lives at house.
Henri, dear, you must break with Mr. Van
Heldre after this."

I have broken with him, aunt," cried the
young man fiercely.

Ah ! that's right ; that is spoken as one
of our race should speak. Good boy. And,
Henri, my darling, of course there will be no
more silly flirting with your sister's friend.
Remember what 1 have told you of the fair
daughters of France, and let the friiulein
marry that man Leslie."

Aunt, you'll drive me mad," exclaimed
Harry, grinding his teeth ; and without another
word he dashed out of the house. His
first thought was to go up the cliffs-path on to
the wild granite plain and moors which overlooked
the town, but he could not stir in that
direction. There was the haunting' dread of
that locket being found, and he went on down

again into the town, and looked about the
shore for hours.

The afternoon was growing old, and his
mind was becoming better able to bear the
brunt of all that was to come.

He raised his eyes, and was on the point
of going; back home to see if his father and
sister had returned, when he caught sight of
old Crampton coming out of the post-office,
after which the old man walked on in the
direction of his home.

The opportunity at last ! The office would
be unguarded ; and, walking swiftly in the
direction of Van Held re's, he turned round
into the back lane, and, strung up to act
firmly and determinedly, he pressed the back
gate.

It was fast.

Desperate and determined now, he went
round to the principal office door, but it was
locked. Harry drew a long breath, and
walked straight to the front door and rang.

The maid who opened drew back to let him

J-

pass.

My father— sister here ? "

In the drawing-room ; in with my mistress."


"No, no," said Harry hastily, as the maid

moved towards the door; "never mind me ;
I'll go in soon."

The woman left him in the hall, and he
waited till he heard the kitchen door
close, when he walked swiftly and softly
to the glass window, and hurried into the
office.

The inner office door was open, and he
darted in, to hastily look all round, under
table, chairs, beneath the book-shelves, among
the newspapers that h\j in places in a heap ;
but there was no sign of the missing trinket,
and an icy feeling of dread began to grow
upon him.

The waste-paper basket !

It was half full, and the locket might easily
have dropped in there, but a hasty examination
was without avail.

The fireplace !

He looked there, in the ready-laid fire,
beneath the grate, in the fender ; he even
raised it, but without avail.

It must be here somewhere," he muttered
fiercely ; and he looked round again, and in
amongst the papers on the table.

Still without avail.

'rit is in the waste-paper basket," he said,
with a feeling of conviction upon him, as.

trembling in every limb, he went to the other
side of the table where it stood.

'•' What's that ? "

A faint sound. Was it Crampton returning ?

He stood listening, his brow glistening with
the cold perspiration ; and as he remained
breathless and intent, he seemed to see again
the office as it was on the previous night,
almost totally dark, the safe opened, and the
shadowy Eure of Van Heldre dashing at
him.

Was it fancy, or was the place really dark ?
A curious mist was before his eyes, but all
was silent ; and he went down on his knees,
turned the waste-paper basket upside down —
the torn letters, envelopes, and circulars forming
a heap on the well-worn Turkey carpet ;
but no piece of metal fell out with a low pat.

"It is here ; it is here ; it shall be here,"
he panted ; and then he sprang to his feet
shivering with shame and dread, face to face
with Madelaine Van Heldre, who, pale with
emotion, heavy-eyed with weeping, but erect
and stern, flashed upon him a look full of
anger and contempt.

"Ah, Madelaine ! " he stammered, " have
you seen a half written letter —-must be here
somewhere — left on my desk '? "

Henri ties Vignes — the soul of honour ! "
she said bitterly. '' Have you fallen so low
as this ? ''

•■ I — I don't understand you."

'•' You coward ! And you can lie to me —
the woman you professed to love ! "

madeline, for pity's sake."

Let me tell you what you are looking for."

I— looking for ? "•

"Yes; you are looking for something for
fear it should fall into the hands of the
police."

1 don't know vvdiat you mean."

Oh ! is it possible that a man can he so
base ? Let me tell you, then. You are looking
for the locket snapped from your chain
when my poor father was stricken down."

'' Madelaine ! what are you savin "

*•' Stricken down by the wretch whom, in
my pity and love, I had asked him to receive
into his house, that he might redeem his character,
and prove to the world that he had
only been weak."

You — you did this ! " he gasped.

I did this ; and found that in his love for
his old friend my father had already determined
TO be a second father to his son."

Oh : "

xliul for what ? To bring him where he
might phil the part of serpent on the hearth,
and sting him to the quick."

Madelaine, for God's sake, mercy ! "

She could have none then.

'' To give shelter, ah ! and, some day, the
hand of the weak, trusting: o-irl who loved
him, and said, ' Give him time, father, and he
will change ' — to give him some day her hand
and love, and welcome him as a son."

Madelaine ! " he cried, throwing himself
on his knees to clasp the hem of her dress
and literally grovel at her feet.

To the man who could stoop to be a vile
contemptible thief ! "

No, no, no 1 " cried Harry, springing to
his feet ; " not that — not that."

'rand rob him."

No ; anything but that. I swear I did
not do that."

And when detected in the act did not
scruple to play the would-be murderer."

Madelaine, have pity ! "

"And cruelly struck him down."

Madelaine. All you say is not true."

Not true ? Go up to where he lies hovering
between life and death, and see your work.
Coward ! Villain ! Oh, that I should ever

have been so weak as to think I loved such a
wretch as you ! ''

He drew himself up.

It is not true," he said. " I did not commit
that theft ; and it was in my agony and
shaaie at beings found before the safe that I

o

struck him down."

'•'You confess you were there — that you
were a partner in the crime ? "

Yes, 1 was there," said Harry, slowly ;
and I sinned. Well, I am ready. Take
your revenge. I am in your hands. You
have the evidence of my crime. Denounce
me, and let me go out of your sio-ht forever.


And my father's old friend — my second
father ? And Louise, my more than sister ?
What of them ? "

He quailed before her as she stood, her eyes
Hashing, a hectic flush on either cheek ; and he
felt that he had never known Madelaine Van
Heldre till then.

'' Oh I " he groaned as he covered his face

o

with his hands, '' I am guilty. Let me suffer,"
he said slowly. " They will soon forget, for I
shall be as one who is dead."

No," she said ; " I cannot speak. If he
who is hovering between life and death could

advise, lie would say, ' Be silent ; let his conscience
be his judge I say the same. Go.
The locket is not there."

The police ? " he cried in a questioning
tone.

No," she said ; " the secret was mine. I
found it tightly clasped in my poor father's
hand."

Then the secret is safe."

'' Safe ^ " she said scornfully. " Safe ? Yes,
it is my secret. You asked for mercy. I
give it you, for the sake of all who are dear
to me ; and because, if he lives, my poor
father would not prosecute the son of his
old friend. There is your locket. Take it,
and I pray Heaven we may never meet again.
Crampton ! "

Yes, Miss Maddy, Crampton — old Cramp-ton,
who held you in his arms when you were
one hour old."

What are you doing here ? "

"Watching my master's interests — watching
over you."

Then you have heard '? "

Every word, my child."

You cursed spy I " cried Harry fiercely, ashe
seized the old man by the throat.

You've done enough, Master Harry Vine,

enough to transport you, sir; and if he dies
to send you to your death."

Crarapton ! " shrieked Madelaine, as Harry
drew bark trembling.

Be merciful, like you, my dear ? No, I
cannot."

Then you'll 9:0 and tell "

What I've heard now, my dear ? No ;
there is no need."

What do you mean ? "

'•' To watch over you, whether my poor
master lives or dies. I know you ! You'd
forgive him if he asked,"

Never ! But, Crampton, it is our secret.
He must go — to repent. Dear Crampton,"
she cried, throwing her arms about his neck"'
you must be merciful too ! "

'•' Too late, my dear," said the old man
sternly ; " too late."

He placed his arm round her and drew
her to his breast, as if to defend her from
Harry.

'• When I went home that night," he continued
in a slow, solemn voice, " I felt that
something was not rio-ht, and I came on herein
time to see "

•'• Oh ! " cried Madelaine.

'' In time to see that shivering, o-uiltv wretch

flee from where he had struck my poor
master down ; and if I had been a young
man and strong I could have killed him for
his crime."

You saw him ? "

Yes, my dear. No need for the locket to
bear witness. I had my duty to do, and it
is done."

'done?"

'eyes ; to punish him for his crime."

Cramp ton, what have you said ? Harry !
before it is too late ! "

It is too late, my child. See here." He
held out a scrap of reddish paper. " From
the London police. I could not trust those
bunglers here."

Madelaine snatched the paper from his hand
and read it.

Oh ! " she moaned, and the paper dropped
from her hand.

Harry snatched it from the floor, read it, let
it fall, and reeled against the table, whose edge
he grasped.

Madelaine struggled and freed herself from
the old man's detaining arm.

Harry ! " she panted — " it would be my
father's wish — escape ! There may yet be
time."

He leaned back against the table, o;azino- at
her wildly, as if he did not grasp her words.
Then he started as if stung by a sudden lash
as old Crampton said :

''I have done my duty. It is too late."

VOL. II,

LESLIE MAKES A DECLARATION.

'' Where is Harrv ? " said Gnome Vine that
same evening, as lie sat in his study, surrounded
by his living specimens of natural
history, and with the paper before him that he
had vainly tried to fill.

He must be waiting about down in the
town — for news," said Louise, looking up from
her work.

He ought to have been here to dinner, my
dear," said the naturalist querulously ; " it
would have been some comfort. Tut — tut —
tut ! I cannot collect my thoughts ; everything
seems to slip from me."

'* Then why not leave it, dear, for the
present ? This terrible trouble has unhinged

you."

She had risen and gone to the back of his
chair, to pass her arm lovingly about his neck,
and he leaned back, dropping his pen to take

her hand and play with it, pressing it to his
lips from time to time.

"I suppose I had better," he 'said sadly;
but I am dreadfully behindhand — four letters
from the Society unanswered. I wish they
did not expect so much from me, my darling."

I do not," said Louise, smiling. " Why
should you wish to be less learned than you
are ? "

Had we not better go on again to Van
Heldre's now ? "

'•' I think I would leave it till quite the last
thing''

'd'ye — es," said Vine, hesitating, "perhaps
so ; but I don't like it, my child. Van Heldre
has always been to me like a brother, and it
seems so strange and hard to be almost driven
from his side. Doctor's like a tyrant, and as
for Crampton — there, wait till the poor fellow
is well again, and if we together do not give
Master Crampton a severe setting down my
name is not what it is."

You must forgive it, dear ; he is so anxious
about his master."

Yes, yes, of course," said Vine pettishly ;
but the man is so insolently overbearing.
Really, my dear, if he has been in the habit
of behaving to Harry as he has conducted

F 2

himself towards us, I do not wonder at the
poor boy's tense dislike to the office routine."
"It is not fair to judge him now," said
Louise.

No, my dear, I suppose not ; but it is
very painful, when I feel as if you and I have
quite a right in that poor fellow's bedroom, to
be literally expelled, Madelaine siding with
the doctor, and poor Mrs. Van Heldre really
utterly broken down."

'' We should only make matters more painful
by interfering. Let us go and ask how
Mr. Van Heldre is about ten, and I will get
Madelaine to let me sit up with her and help."

No," said Vine, rising and pacing the
room, " I shall not sit down quietly. I feel
that it is my duty to insist upon being there.
I shall go up at once."

Wait till I put on my things, dear."

*' No ; I shall only go for an hour now, and
I will come back and fetch you later on."

'^ But, papa dear ! "

There, there, there ! don't be alarmed, I
shall not get out of temper with Crampton
now. That will keep."

Then you will go — now ? "

Yes," he said decidedly ; " I cannot sit
here."

But you hardly tasted your dinner. Let
me get you some tea first."

My dear child, I can touch nothing ; and
pray don't oppose me. I am in such a state
of nervous irritation that if you do I am sure
I shall say something unkind, and then I shall
be more upset than 1 am nov^r."

I am not afraid," said Louise, hanging
on his shoulder for a few moments, and then
kissing his wrinkled, careworn brow.

Thank you, my darling, thank you. You
will not mind being left ? Harry ought to be
here."

'•' Oh, no, dear ; but you will come back
soon and tell me all. Harry will be here
before then."

Of course, my dear, of course."

And you weill give my dear love to Madelaine,"
Louise cried, as her father moved away
from the door.

He nodded, and with bended head went off
down the path, while, after watching till he
had disappeared, Louise stood gazing out to
sea, as the evening began to close in, and a
soft, melancholy breeze came whispering among
the trees.

She could not tell why it was, but everything
seemed to wear a different aspect, and

a profound sense of dejection came upon her,
which brought the tears to her eyes.

Where could Harry be ? It was hours
since she had seen him, and as she felt how
much she required help and counsel at that
time ; her thoughts strayed to Duncan Leslie,
and she looked across an intervening depression
to the steep cliff-path, which led up past
Uncle Luke's den to the Mine House, where a
faint light twinkled, and away beyond, like a
giant finger pointing upward, the great chimney
shaft towered.

She stood gazing at that faint light for some
minutes, with her eyes growing dim, and the
troubled feelings which had often assailed her
in secret increasing; till, with cheeks burning
and an angry ejaculation, she turned into the
house, where she fetched her work from the
study, and was soon after seated by the window
trying to sew. At the end of a few minutes
she rose and rang for the lamp), which was
brought in by the cook.

Where's Liza ? " said Louise.

Gone down into the town, ma'am," said
the cook, looking at her uneasily.

What for ? She did not ask leave."

She said she would not be long, ma'am,"
said the woman evasively.

'•' Tell lier to bring iu the tea the moment
my father returns. Let everything be ready."

'' Yes, ma'am."

The woman hurried out, and Louise sat
gazing at the door, thinking that the woman's
manner was strange.

•'• I am upset"' she said with a sigh, " and
that makes things seem different."

She had been dreaming over her work fora
few minutes when she started, for she heard
voices talking loudly. She sat up in her chair
T^dth her senses on the strain, trembling lest
there should be bad news from the Van
Heldres'. She was not kept long in suspense,
for there was a quick step in the hall, a sharp
rap at the door, and Liza entered, scarlet with
excitement and exertion, her shawl over one
arm. her hat hanging by its strings from the
other.

'eliza!"

Yes, miss, it's me. Can I speak to you a
minute ? "

•'' Have you brought news from Mr. Van
Heldre's ? ''

'■' "Which I have, miss, and I haven't."

'■' How is he ? " cried Louise, paying no heed
to Liza's paradoxical declaration.

'' Xo better, and no worse, miss ; but it

wasn't about that. I leaves you this day
month, miss ; and as much sooner as you can
suit yourself."

'' Very well, Liza. That will do."

"No, miss!" cried the girl excitedly, "it
won't do. 'Using people o' being chiefs when
it was nothing but a bit of a bundle o' old rags
and things I saved, as might ha' been burnt,
and they bought 'em of me, and I bought the
ribbons o' them."

"I do not wish to hear any more about that
transaction, Liza ; but I am glad to hear you
can explain it away. You should have been
frank at first."

So ought other people, miss, if you'll
excuse me ; and not go taking away a poor
servant's character by alluding to money left
on no chimney-pieces as I never took."

Liza ! "

Yes, miss ; I know, and thinking o' sending
for the police."

I had too much feeling for you, Liza, and
for your future character. I did not even
send you away."

I should think not indeed, miss. Mother
and me's as honest as the day ; and if you
want police, send for 'em for them as has been
picking and stealing."

^' My good girl, what do yoii mean ? "
Oh, you don't know o' course, miss ; but
you very soon will. And him with his fine
airs, and his boots never shiny enough. He'll
find out the difference now ; and as to me
stavino- in a home like this where one of us iso



a thief, I've got my character to look after,
and "

There was a sharp knock and ring, and from
force of habit, Liza turned.

In a month, miss, if you please ; and now
you're going to hear what come an hour ago,
and is all over the town by now."

Louise caught at the table to steady
herself, and her lips parted to question the
girl, but she had hurried out of the room.
The door was opened, a deep male voice
was heard, and directly after Duncan Leslie
hurried in.

It is no time for ceremony," he gasped,
breathlessly. " Adhere is your father ? "

At — Mr. Van Heldre's," panted Louise,
as she turned to him with extended hands.
"]\Ir. Leslie, pray — pray tell me — what is
wrong J

'' Tell you ? " he cried, catching her almost
in his arms, and holding her firmly ; and
his voice sounded deep, hoarse, and full of

commiseration. " How am I to dare to tell
you, Louise ? "

Mr. Leslie ! "

She half struggled from him, but he retained
her hands.

Tell me," he cried ; '' what shall I say ?
Am I to speak out ? "

Yes, quick ! You torture me."

Torture you, whom I would die to save
from pain ! "

She trembled and flushed, and turned pale
by turns.

"I must tell you," he said; "there is no
time to spare. I have — try and bear it, my
child, like the true, brave heart you are. Your
brother "

Yes ; quick ! what do you mean ? '^

Leslie stood looking at her for a few moments,
his mind dragged two ways, and
shrinking from giving his news as he gazed
into her dilated eyes.

Why do you not speak ? " she said passionately.
"Do you not see the pain you give
me i

"I must speak," he groaned. " Adhere is
your brother ? There is a horrible rumour in
the town. Mr. Crampton "

Crampton ! "

"Accuses your brother of having robbed
and struck dou'n Mr. Van Heldre."

It is a lie ! "' she cried fiercely, as she
snatched away her hands, gazing at him with
flashing eyes and burning cheeks. " My
brother a thief — almost a murderer ! Oh ! ''

'■' It cannot be true," said Leslie ; " but "

'•' Weak and reckless and foolish ; but —
oh, why have you come up to say these
things ?^"

o

Because I love you ! " he cried passionately
; and he caught her hands in his, and
held them tio'htlv. " Because I knew that
the horrible charge must soon reach your
ears, and that it would be better that it
should come from me — when you were in
trouble — when you wanted help."

'• It is not true — it is not true I " cried
Louise, excitedly.

Where is he ? Let me see him. I maybe
able to advise and help. Louise, dear
Louise, let this terrible time of trial be that
which brings us together. Let me prove to
you how I love you by being your counsellor,
your aid in this time of need."

She heard his words, uttered with an
earnestness which told their truth ; but their
effect eras merely to arouse her indignation.

How dared lie take advantage of lier agony
and weakness at a time like this, and insult
her with his professions ! It was an outrage.

Don't shrink from me," he whispered. " I
will say no more now. Forgive my clumsy
blundering out of the words I have for months
been longing to speak. Only let me feel that
you understand me — that I may love ; and
then you will turn to me for help in this time
of trouble."

For answer she pointed to the door.

It is false," she cried ; '' my brother a
common thief ! "

It must be false," he echoed, against his
own belief ; "but the charge has been made,
and he must be warned in time."

Warned in time ? " she cried. " And you,
who profess to be our friend, stood by and
heard this charge made, and did not strike
down the villain who made it."

'' Miss Vine — Louise, you are hasty. The
shock I know is terrible, but we must be
prepared to meet it. He must not be taken
unawares."

My brother can meet such a charge as a
gentleman should. It is not the first time
that so foul an attack has been made against
an innocent man."

You are too hard upon me," he pleaded.
How could I, loving you as I do "

Loving ! " she cried, scornfully.

'•' What have 1 done ? " he groaned. " I
ran up here directly to try and be of service.
In my excitement, I spoke words that I should
have kept back for a time, but they would
have vent, and — Xo, I am not ashamed of
what I have said," he cried, drawing himself
up. '' Louise Vine, I love you, and I must
help you and your brother in this terrible
strait."

Then go back to the towai, and tell all
who have dared to say my brother committed
this crime that what they say is false, and that
his father, his sister will prove his innocence.
Go!"

Yes, go ! " said a shrill, harsh voice.
*' Louise, go to your room and let me speak
to this man."

Aunt, you have heard ? "

Yes, from the servants. And I heard
his last insulting words. Go to your room,
child."

She threw open the door, and, accustomed
to obey from her childhood, Louise moved
slowly towards the hall ; but as she turned
slightly to dart a last indignant look at the

man who had set her heart beating wildly ashe
at the same time roused her indignation,
she saw such a look of agony that her courage
failed, a strange sense of pity stole through
her, and she stepped back and took her aunt's
arm.

*' Hush, aunt dear," she said, " there is no
need to say more. Mr. Leslie has made a
great mistake in bringing up that cruel report,
and he will go now and contradict it for my
brother's sake."

And apologize for his insult," cried Aunt
Marguerite fiercely. " Child, I bade you goto
your room."

'eyes, aunt, I am going."

I must speak to this man alone."

Aunt, dear — "

"Pray go, Miss Vine," said Leslie, approaching
and taking her hand.

She yielded, and he led her to the door.

Nothing your aunt can say will change
my feelings towards you. When you are calm
you will forgive me. Believe me, I will do
everything to clear your brother from this
charge."

She looked at him wildly, and still hesitated
to obey her aunt's words. Finally, she gave
way, Leslie held the door open till she was on

the stairs, and then closed it, his manner
completely changing as he turned and faced
Aunt Marguerite, who stood with her head
thrown lack, and an indignant look of anger
in her keen eyes.

'' So, sir," she exclaimed, '* you in your
common ignorance of everything connected
with the social life of such a family as ours,
dare to come up as a tale-bearer — as one of
our servants did a few minutes back — and tell
this pitiful story about my nephew."

I grieved greatly, Miss Vine," said Leslie
in quiet business-like tones.

You grieved ! " she cried. " A theft ! Do
you know that a Des Vignes would prefer
death to dishonour ? "

No, madam ; but I am very glad to hear
it, for that being the case Henry Vine must
be innocent."

Innocent ! " she cried scornfully. '' My
nephew Henri ! As if it could be for a
moment in doubt ! "

I shall strive hard to help Mr. Vine, your
brother, to clear him from this disgrace."

Dish-race, sir ? It is no disgrace. If the
canaille cast mud at one of noble lineage, does
it disgrace him ? No. The dish-race is where
some plebeian — some trading person — is mad

enough to advance his pretensions, and dares
to address a lady as I heard you address my
niece. Let me see, sir, did I not once give
you to understand that Miss Louise des
Vignes would in all probability be soon
married to a gentleman of Auvergne — a
gentleman whose lineage is as noble as her
own J

I did understand something of the kind,
madam, but until I see Miss louise Vine
another's wife I shall boldly advance my
pretensions, hoping to the last."

Even supposing that her brother has
committed some faucV pas ? "

That would be the greater inducement tome
to stand by her in her time of need."

Most gratifying, I am sure, Mr. Leslie,
and highly creditable to one of your nationality,"
said Aunt Marguerite sneeringly, as she
raised her glass to her eye, and gazed at him
in an amused way. " Now may I ask you to
leave me ? My brother and my nephew are
from home, and I cannot entertain you as I
am sure you would wish. Good evening, Mr.
Leslie — good evening."

She bowed him out with a sneering smile
upon her thin lips, and Leslie hurried back
towards the town.

A^^lat shall I do ? " he muttered. " Oh,
that sneering; old woman, how she does raise
one's o;all ! Poor Louise ! she did look more
gentle toward the last ; and I don't believe
in the Frenchman of orreat lineage. If there
is one, let's do battle as they did of old, if he
likes. What a fool I was to speak as I did
just when she was so full of trouble ! I must
have been mad — a declaration of love, and an
announcement that the poor girl's brother was
in trouble. The young idiot ! The scoundrel !
How I should like to have his drilling; for the
next five years ! What shall I do ? I must
help him. It's true enough, I'm afraid ; and
he must have the best legal help. If I had
only some one to consult with. Van Heldre
would have been the man."

There was a pause as the young man
thought deeply of what steps he ought to
take next.

Yes, with all his sham cynicism and silly
whims, the old man is shrewd, and can help
when he likes. Uncle Luke ! "

VOL. II

Louise Vine stood trembling; in her own
room, listening till she heard the door close,
and Duncan Leslie's step on the gravel. Hei
agitation was terrible, and in place of being
clear-headed and ready to act in this emergency,
she felt as if her brain was in a turmoil
of contending emotions. Indignation on her
brother's behalf, anger against Leslie for his
announcement, and another form of anger
which she could not define, strugo-led with a
desire to go to her brother's help, and at last
she placed her hands to her head and pressed
them there.

'' What shall I do ? " she panted.

Louise, Louise, my child ! "

It was Aunt Marguerite's voice, and there
was a sharp tapping on the panel of the door
after the handle had been turned.

*' Louise, my child, unlock this door."

She made no reply, but stood with her

liaods clasped together, listening to the sharp
voice and the quick tapping repeated on the
panel. Both ceased after a few minutes, and
Aunt Marguerite's door was heard to close
loudly.

I could not talk to her now," muttered the
girl. •'' She makes me so angry. She was so
insulting to Mr. Leslie. But he deserved it,"
she said aloud, with her cheeks burning once
more, author eyes flashing, as she drew herself
up. " My brother — a common thief — the man
who injured Mr. Van Heldre ! It is not true."

She started violently and began to tremble,
for there was a sharp pattering on her windowpanes,
as if some one had thrown a few small
shot. Would Duncan Leslie dare to summon
her like that ? The pattering was repeated,
and she went cautiously to the window, to
make out in the gloom a figure that certainly
was not that of Leslie.

She opened the casement with nervous
anxiety now.

"Asleep?" cried a hasty voice. "There,
stand aside — I'm coming up."

There was a rustling noise — a sharp crack
or two, a hand was thrown over the win-downhill,
and, panting with exertion, Harry
clambered in.

G 2

*' Harry ! " cried Louise in alarm, for his acts,
his furtive way of coming to the house, and his
manifest agitation did not suggest innocence.

Hush ! Don't talk aloud. Where's the
governor ? "

"Father is at Mr. Van Heldre's."

Harry drew in a quick spasmodic breath.

And Aunt Marguerite ? "

In her room. But, Harry ! "

Be quiet. Don't talk. Let me get my
breath."

Louise stood before him with her hands
clasped, and a flow of agonizing thoughts
seeming to sweep her reason away. All was
confusion, but above the flood there was one
thing to which she clung — Harry was innocent.
In spite of everything in the way of
appearance, he was innocent ; nothing should
turn her from that.

Well," he said suddenly, " haven't you
anything to say ? "

There was a savage vindictive tone in his
voice which startled her more than his previous
threatening way.

"Yes; where have you been ? Why do you
come back like this ? "

"Where have I been? Up on the cliffs,
wandering about among the rocks, and hiding

till it grew dark and I could come home. And
why did I come home like this ? You know.
Of course you have heard."

'' Mr. Leslie came, and "'

'•' Mr. Leslie ! " cried Harry with a mocking
laugh. •' Save us from our friends."

Louise's sympathy swung round on the
instant to the side of the attacked ; and,
hardly knowing what she said —

•'•'Mr. Leslie came to bear some terrible
news, and to offer to help you."

To help me ! " cried Harry, with the eagerness
of him who catches at straws. "And you
what did you say ? "

'•' I said the information was false — a miserable
invention. And I repeat it. Harry, it
is not true ? "

He made no reply for a few moments, while,
sobbing and terrified, Louise clung to him.

Harry," she said excitedly, " why do you
not speak ? "

'■' Don't talk to me," he said hoarsely, " I'm
thinking."

*' But, Harry, I laugh at Aunt Marguerite's
follies about descent and our degradation ;
but it is your duty to make a stand for our
father's sake. Who has dared to accuse you
of aU this ? "

"Don't talk to me," he said in an angry
whisper, as he ran to the window and listened,
crossing the room directly after to try the door.

Louise gazed at him in a horrified way, and
her heart sank down, down, as her brother's
acts suggested the possibility of his guilt.
Then, like a flash of light, a thought irradiated
her darkening soul, and she caught her brother's
arm.

"I know ! " she cried.

You — you know ? "

"Yes, I see it all now; and why this charge
has been made. It was Mr. Pradelle."

Pradelle ! "

"And that is why he left so suddenly.
Harry, my poor brother ! "

Let Pradelle be," he said huskily. " I'm
not going to hide behind another man."

Oh ! But, Harry ! "

Look here," he said uneasily ; " I want
your help, and you do nothing but talk."

I will be silent ; but tell me it is not true."

Do you want me to make matters worse
by telling some paltry lie ? " he said. " Yes ;
it is true."

Harry ! "

No : not all true. I did not steal that
money."

Ah ! '' ejaculated Louise ; and she reeled
to her bed, and would have fallen but for the
post she grasped.

'•' I've no time to explain, but you must
know. Yes ; I did knock old Van Heldre
down."

•' Harry ! " she groaned.

And Crampton saw me come away ; he has
sent for the London police ; and, unless I can
get off, I shall be taken and tried."

Louise literally tottered towards him.

"Xo, no," he said angrily. "You are going
to talk and preach. You don't want to see me
discrracinor you all bv beinor cast in 2^aol ?"

Disgracing' them ! Louise's first thought

CO o

was of Duncan Leslie, and a pang of agony
shot through her. How could she ever look
him in the face again ? A chill that seemed
to paralyze shot through her. The hope that
she had nursed was cast out, and her brother's
word seemed to open out a future so desolate
and blank that she turned upon him angrily.

'•' Harry ! " she cried, " this is not — cannot
be true." He paid no heed to her Torts, but
stood biting his nails, evidently thinking, and
at last he turned upon her like one at bay, as
she said, after a painful pause, " You do not
answer. Am I to believe all this ? Xo, I

cannot — will not believe it, Harry. It can't
it can't be true."

*eyes," lie said, as if waking from a dream.
One of the lads would take me over in his
lugger. St. Malo ; that would do. Louie ,
what money have you ? "

Then it is true ? " she said.

True ? Yes ; it's true enough."

"Then you — oh, Harry, for pity's sake —
Harry ! "

She burst into a wild fit of sobbing.

That's right," he cried savagely. " I came
to you for help and you go into hysterics.
There, unlock that door, and get me something
to eat, and while I'm enjoying myself, you can
send Liza for the police."

Harry ! "

Then why don't you act like a sensible
girl ? Listen ; nobody must know that I have
been here ; not even the governor. I'm going
to steal down to the harbour by and by ; and
I shall get Joe Lenten or Dick Paul to take
me over to France. If I stay here I shall be
arrested, and disgrace you all. There never
was such an unlucky fellow as I am. Here,
once more, what money have you ? "

'every little, Harry," she said; "about three
sovereigns."

•'• Has aunt any ? Xo ; she must not know
that I'm ht^re. Louie, you must let me have
your watch."

"Yes, Harry," she said, as she stood before
him, cold and striving hard to master her
emotion as a mute feeling of despair attacked
her.

•'■ And you'll help me, won't you ? "

'■' Yes. Harry," she said, in the same cold
mechanical way.

Let me have your chain and rings, and
any other trinket that will fetch money. Must
have something to live upon till this trouble
has blown over. You see I am penniless ; I
am not a thief. I shall soon ore rio-ht again,
and you shall have all these things a dozen
times over." She suppressed a sigh. " Be
Cjuick then — there's a good girl ! I've no time
to waste."

Louise moved across the room to the
drawers, and took from the top a small rosewood
box, which she placed upon the table.
Then taking her watch from her waist, she
was in the act of unfastening the chain, when
there was the sound of a closing door below,
and her father's voice, sounding loud and
excited, as it called her by name.

IN DEFENCE OF HIS YOUNG.

Louise ! Where is Louise ? " The step
on the stairs sounded like that of a younger
man ; and as the door was tried, Harry had
reached the window, from whence he was
about to climb, when he fancied he saw someone
below, and he hastily closed the casement,
and drew back trembling. " Louise ! open
this door."

No, no," whispered Harry. " He must not
know I am here."

Not know ? "

x\m I to break this door ? " was thundered
from the other side.

Harry glanced once more at the window.
It was fancy. No one was below now that
he could see; and he was in the act of unfastening
it when there was a crash, the door
Hew open, and his father strode into the room.
It did not seem to be the same man, and Harry

shrank from the fierce, erect, angry figure which
approached.

'• As I mio-ht have dressed. You coward !
&'o you would strip your sister of what money
and jewels she has and then escape ! " Harry
stood before him silent and with his head
averted. " You did not counsel this flight,
Louise ? "

'•No, father," she said, in a low voice full
of pain ; and she looked from one to the other,
as if mentally stunned, and unable to realize
the force of all that was taking place.

•'' I thought not. You abject, miserable
wretch ! "

Harry started, and gazed half in fear, half
in wonder, at the stern, commanding figure
before him.

It — it was to save you all from disgrace."

Vine burst into a discordant laugh.

From dish-race — to save us from distance ?
And is this part of your childish aunt's
teaching ? "

Father ! Pray ! " whispered Louise, rousing
herself and clinging to his arm.

Silence, my child ! " he cried. '' I am not
angry with you. I blame myself. Weak and
indulgent. Tolerating that foolish woman's
whims, that her old age might pass peacefully

away, I have allowed all her follies to go on ;
but 1 did not believe these seeds could strike
so deep a root. To save us from disgrace !
So this is being the aristocratic gentleman of
French descent ! The man who would prefer
death to dishonour — the man who scorns to
sully his hands by embarking in some honest
trade ! And I, wrapped in my pursuits, riding
my weak hobby, have let things go on till they
have ended thus ! "

But, father, think ! Be merciful."

Think ? I dare not, girl. Merciful ? No.
He is no longer my son. We must bear the
disgrace as best we can ; hide our shame elsewhere.
You and I, father and sister of a
miserable convict, who in the pursuit of money
and title could stoop to rob."

No, no, father ; not rob."

Scoundrel ! don't speak, or I may forget
myself, and strike you down as you struck
down your benefactor, the man who stretched
out his hand to save you from the ruin that
dogged your heels."

*' It was a miserable accident, father. I did
not steal."

Bah ! Lies come easily to such as you ;
but I have no words to waste, there is no time
for that."

Xo, fiitlier ; quick, before it is too late,"
whispered Louise. " Let him go ; let him
escape to France — to repent, father. He is
your son."

Xo. I disown him. And you counsel this
—you, girl ? "

Yes, father, you will spare him," sobbed
Louise ; " he is my brother."

He has broken those ties ; neither son nor
brother to us, my child. He has blasted your
future by branding you as a convict's sister,
and embittered the few yecirs left to me, so
that I would gladly end them now."

Father ! "

Hush, my child ! I am rightly punished
for my weakness. I hoped that he would
change. I was not blind, only patient, for I
said that these follies would soon pass, and
now I am awakened to this. My son in the
hands of the police ! " he laughed in a wild,
discordant tone. " Monsieur Le Comte des
Vignes, I must have been mad."

Go on ! " said Harry, fiercely. '' Trample
me down. There, let me pass. Better in the
hands of the police than here."

'•' Xo, no ! " cried Louise excitedly. " Father,
he must escape. It is one great horror, do
not make it worse by letting him go there."

'' Worse, girl ? there is no worse ! " cried
Vine, sternly. " I thank my God that weare
living in a land where stern good laws are
pre-eminent, and where justice rules with unswerving
hand. You know not what you say."

*' Yes, father — dearest father, help him to go
and repent the evil he has done."

Go and repent ? Yes, that is the only
hope ; but it shall be as the honest repentant
man, ready to acknowledge and bear the
punishment of his crime."

'' Father ! "

'' Yes ; look at him — look at the base,
cowering wretch, ready to go and hide his face
in any shelter to escape the fate he has earned !
Look at his guilty conscience, branding him
even now ! And you say, let him go ! "

Yes, father. What could I say ? "

^' Nothing ! " cried Harry, turning round,
as the trampled worm turns beneath the boot
that crushes it into the earth. '' It is true ;
I struck poor old Van Heldre down ; but
whatever I may have thought before, I did not
go to steal that money. I did not steal it.
And now what do you want me to do ? "

Go : act as a man who claims such descent
as ours should do, in the country which opened
to him its arms, and whose laws he has transgressed.

The police are here from London.
Go and give yourself up ; suffer your punishment
as one Tsdio would atone, and years hence
in the future, when you are freed, come tome
and ask my pardon — kneeling humbly by
my grave."

Father ! "

"No more. The way is open now. Goat
once, before you are dragged through the
streets handcuffed like some common felon.
To save us from disgrace you say — that is the
only way."

He stood erect, with his eyes flashing, knit
brows, and nostrils quivering, pointing to the
door, while with his left arm he supported
Louise, whose face gazed wildly into his, no
mean representative of that Haute Noblesse
which had sought refuge here when persecution
drove them from their land.

Father ! Harry ! " cried Louise, but only
the latter spoke.

Yes," he said, drawing himself up. '' You
are right, I'll £[o."

He strode quickly toward the door ; but
before he reached it, Liza threw it back.

*' Miss Louise," she cried, '' the police ! "

"With hasty stride the old man rushed to the
door and thrust it to.

Oh ! " he gasped, and then after a pause
there was one low, hoarse appeal to heaven for
aid, '^ My God!"

The adjuration spoke volumes, and for a
few moments the old man stood there as if
in a cataleptic state. Then a change came
over him, his pale face flushed, the veins in
his forehead stood out and throbbed, and he
dashed to his son.

Quick, Harry ! France ! "

As he spoke Harry broke from him and
dashed to the window, threw it open, and was
about to spring out, but he drew back. There
was no fancy this time ; two policemen could
be dimly seen below.

Too late, father," he said calmly.

No, my boy ! this way, hush ! "

He snatched open the door, and a quick-looking,
well-knit man stood framed in the
entry.

'* Ah ! " he said sharply, as he fixed Harry
with his eye, " Mr. Henry Vine, I arrest
you on a warrant. Robbery and attempt to
murder."

No," roared the father frantically, and he
flung himself upon the officer. " Run, Harry,
run ! "

Louise stood clinging to the ironwork of her

bedstead, sick with horror, as a terrible struofo'le
ensued. It only lasted a few moments ; and
as she saw her father and the detective officer
wrestling together, her brother clenched his
fists, set his teeth, and dashed at them.

No, no ; run ! " roared the father in a
voice she did not know; and in obedience,
Harry dashed through the doorway and was
gone.

You're mad, old man !" cried the detective,
tearing himself free, drawing back, and then
rushing towards the door.

o

But with a wonderful display of activity and
vigour, the old naturalist sprang at him once
more, and with clenched fist struck him so
fierce a blow full on the cheek that the man
swerved sideways, and would have sidled but
for the wall.

Ashen I come back ! " he roared savagely,
as he recovered himself; and, springing through
the door, he bounded down the stairs after
Harrv Vine, father and sister stacrorerino- to the
landing just as the door across the hall swung
to with a heavy bang, and the sounds of feet
rapidly beating the shingle rose loudly on the
silence of the night.

VOL. II.

ON HIS BEHALF.

What have I done ? what have I clone ? "
groaned Vine. " I might have forgiven him

and let him escape, and then Louise,

Louise, my child, come with me. We must
find him and help."

Louise hurried back into her room to get
hat and scarf, and returned to the landing
to find her father and Aunt Margaret face to
face.

It is a judgment upon you, George — a
judgment ! " cried the old lady excitedly.
"Yes; you dragged the poor boy down to
that wretched life, and in his madness and
misery he made one bold stroke for freedom."

Louise, my child, quick ! " cried Vine. " I
cannot answer her now. Quick ! get me away,
or I shall say words to her that 1 shall repent
as long as I live."

"I say it is a judgment!" cried Aunt

Margaret. " Poor boy ! if you had taken my
advice "

The door closed. They were out in the
clear, starry night, hurrying down the path
toward the town, but Aunt Margaret's words
were ringing in Vine's ears. A judgment.

Why ? What had he done ?

Have I been to blame ? Is she ris^ht ?
Have I been to blame ? " he muttered, as they
hurried down,'the words being the secret communing
of his heart, but they were loud enough
for Louise to hear, and as she clung to his arm
she whispered emphatically —

No, father, no ! "

Xo ? Louise, what are you saying ? "

That you have not been to blame. My
dear, patient, indulgent father's

Indulgent ? " he said hoarsely. " Yes ;
indulgent. I have been indulgent, and yet
Heaven knows how I have striven to make
ours a happy home for all."

And you have, father," sobbed Louise,
till Harry proved so wilful and went astray."

Yes ; went astray. But he must go, my
child ; he must not be taken. I have a little
money with me, and will send him more. I
want to do that which is just and right, but I
could not bear to see him taken off to oral."

Louise uttered a low moan as they hurried
on down the path.

Where will he go ? Where will he hide ? "
whispered Vine, excitedly. " He could not
escape by the road, the railway station is certain
to be watched, and there is the telegraph."

Stop ! " said Louise, holding one hand to
her head, as in the terrible confusion of conflicting
thought she tried to recall something
her brother had said.

"Yes, I recollect now," she said. "He told
me he meant to escape across to France, and
that he would ask one of the fishermen to sail
with him to St. Malo."

Hah ! yes. Then he will escape. Whom
did he say '? "

I cannot recollect the name, and yet it is
familiar."

Try, my child, try."

I am trying hard, father," said Louise
sadly, "but I cannot recollect."

Oh ! " groaned her father, as they hurried
on down the path, " for pity's sake, try, my
child, try."

Yes," I remember," she cried at last —
Paul."

Dick Paul — the man who sailed with us
to the rocks near Scilly ? "

Yes, yes ! "

Ha ! then if be has escaped so far he will
be there."

Do you know which is his cottage ? "

Yes, I know. Quick, girl, quick ! "

They almost ran down the rest of the way,
each looking excitedly about in the expectation
of there being a hue and cry, and of seeing the
fugitive rush by, hunted by a senseless crowd,
eager to see him caught.

But all was perfectly still, the great stars
shone down on the sleepy place, the lights
burned in windows here and there, and as
they reached a turn where the harbour lay
before them the light at the mouth shone out
like a lurid, fiery eye, staining the calm water
with a patch of light, which seemed weird and
strange amidst the spangled gleams reflected
from the stars. Hardly a sound, till a swing
door was opened a short distance in front, and
there floated out in harmony one of the West-country
ditties the fishermen loved to sino
The door swung to, and the part-song became
a murmur.

Vine gripped his daughter's hand with
spasmodic violence, but she did not wince.
There was a pain, an agony in her breast
which neutralized all other, as she hurried

on by her father's side, thinking now of her
erring brother, now of Duncan Leslie. That
dream, that growing love which she had
tremblingly avowed to herself she felt for
the frank, manly young mine-owner, was
over, was crushed out, with all its brightened
hopes of happiness ; but he had said he
loved her, and offered his aid. Why was he
not there now to help, when her brother was
in such peril ? Why was he not there ?

The answer came like a dull blow. She
had reviled him, insulted him, and driven him
away. Then her heart replied : He loves me,
he will forgive my hasty words, and will save
my brother if I humble myself and ask.

She started back to the reality from what
seemed a dream, as her father hurried on along
by a row of ill-built, rugged cottages on the cliff.

"It is in one of these," he said huskily,
but I cannot recall which."

As he hesitated one of the doors was opened,
and a great, burly merman appeared, pipe in
mouth.

'* Dick Paul's," he said, in answer to a
question, " first door murder on. Fine night,
master."

Yes, yes ; thank you, thank you," cried
Vine hastily.

But he ain't at home."

What ? "

Him and four more went out at sundown
to shoot their nets."

Vine uttered a low groan.

Good-night ! " said the man, and he moved
ofi:

*' Stop ! " cried Vine, and the man's heavy
boots ceased to clatter on the rugged pebbles
with which the way was paved.

Call me. Master Vine ? "

Yes. You know me ? "

Know you ? Ay, and the young lady too.
Liza Perrow's Uncle Bob. Didn't I take you
long the coast one day ? "

*' Yes, yes, of course," said Vine hastily.
'look here, my man; you have a boat."

*' Third share, master ; just going out now.
My mates are waiting yonder."

'' In the harbour ? "

Ay. That's their lantern."

'' Look here, Perron," said Vine excitedly,
as he held the man tightly by the arm, "you
are going fishing ? "

Going to have a trv, master."

And you will perhaps earn a pound
apiece."

If we are lucky. Perhaps naught."

Perrow," whispered the okl man, with his
lips close to the man's face, " will you do me a
service— a great service ? "

Service, sir ? — Ay, sure I will."

Then look here. Your boat would sail
across to France ? "

To France ? " said the great bluff fellow,
with a chuckle. " Why, didn't some of our
mates sail to Spain in a lugger a foot shorter
than ours, and not so noo a boot ! France, ay,
or Spain either."

Then look here ; take a passenger over forme
to-night ; and I'll give you fifty pounds."

Fifty pounds, Master Vine ? "

Yes. Be ready ; take him safely over, and
bring me back word from him that he's safe,
and ril pay you a hundred."

Will you shake hands on that, master ? "

You will do it ? "

Do it for you, Master Vine ? Why, sir,
bless you, we'd ha' done it for five. But if you
tempt poor men wi' a big lump o' money

like that Do it ? I should think we

will."

But your partners ? " said Louise excitedly.

Never you mind about them, miss. I'm
capon o' our boot. Where's our passenger ?
Lor, miss, don't do that."

The man started, for Louise had caught his
rough hand and kissed it''

I'll soon bring him to you," said the old
man, with his voice trembling ; " but look
here, my man — you must ask no questions,
you \Yill not be put off, you will not refuse at
the last moment ? "

'' Look here, Master Vine, sir," said the
man stolidly, '' I ain't a fool. Hundred
pound's a lot o' money, and of course it's to
smuggle some one away on the quiet. Yell,
so be it."

"Hah !" ejaculated Vine.

It's to 'oblige you as I've know for a
kind-hearted gent these ever so many years,
though there was that bit o' trouble 'bout my
brother's lass, as I don't believe took that
there money."

No, no, she was innocent," cried Louise.

Thanks for that, miss, and say, ins

vouno' master Harrv been up to some
o'ame ? "

o

There was no reply.

Never mind. Don't you speak without
you like, Master Vine, sir. Yonder's our boot,
and I'll go down to her, and she shall lie off
just outside, and I'll wait in our little punt
down by the harbour steps. Will that do ? "

'' Yes ; and you will trust me to pay you a
hundred pounds ? "

'' Trust ^oii ? "

The man uttered a low chuckle.

*•' How long will he be, master ? "

I — I don't know. Wait till he comes."

Master Harry ? " whispered the man.

Yes."

"All right, sir. You trust me. I'll trust
you. Night, miss. I'll wait there if it's a week."

Hah ! " ejaculated Vine, as the man's
heavy step went on before them. '^ There
is a way of escape for him. I am a father,
and what I ought to do by my friend pales
before that. Now to find him, my child, to
find him. He must escape."

Louise clung to his arm, and they stood
there on the cliffs-path listening, and each
mentally asking the question, what to do ?

If I could only get the faintest clue of his
movements," muttered Vine. " Louise, my
child, can you not suggest something % "

She did not answer, for a terrible dread was
upon her now. Her brother might have been
taken ; and if so, there was no need to hesitate
as to the way to go.

As if the same thoughts had impressed him,
Vine suddenly exclaimed,

No, no, they would not have taken him.
The man was a stranger, and Harry would be
too quick. '*

For the next hour they hurried here and
there, passing Van Heldre's house, where a
dim lio-ht in the window showed where the
injured man lay. There was a vague kind of
feeling that sooner or later they would meet
Harry, but the minutes glided slowly by, and
all was still.

Out beyond the harbour light the faint
oieam of a lantern could be seen, showing;
that Bob Perrow had kept faith with them,
and that the lugger was swinging in the rapid
current, fast to one of the many buoys used
by the fishermen in fine weather. But there
was no sign or sound apparent ; and, with
their hearts sinking beneath the impression
that Harry had been taken, and yet not daring
to go and ask, father and daughter still
wandered to and fro along the various streets
of the little town.

•'' Can he have taken boat and gone ? " whispered
Vine at last.

•''Xo/' said Louise, "there would not have
been time, and we should have seen the lights
had a boat gone out."

*■' George ! "

Two figures suddenly appeared out of the
darkness, and stopped before them.

^'Luke? You here?"

Yes ; have you seen him ? "

*^No; but is— is he—"

No, Mr. Vine," said Leslie quickly. '' I
have been up to the station twice."

For Heaven's sake don't speak to me like
that, Mr. Vine," cried Leslie. " I know everything,
and I am working for him as I would for
my own brother."

Yes, it's all right, George," said Uncle
Luke, with his voice softening a little. '' Leslie's
a good fellow. Look here ; we must get
the young dog away. Leslie has chartered a
fast boat, and she lies in the head of the
harbour ready."

"Ah!"

It was an involuntary ejaculation from
Louise.

We'll have have him taken across the
Channel if we can find him. Where can he be
hidden ? "

We have been twice on to your house,
Mr. Vine," said Leslie, who kept right away
from Louise, and out of delicacy seemed to
ignore her presence, but spoke so that she

would hear every word. "I have three of my
miners on the look-out — men I can trust,
and law or no law, we must save him from
arrest."

'' Heaven bless you, Mr. Leslie. Forgive
"

Hush, sir. There is no time for words.
The men from London with our own police
are searching in every direction. He got
right away, and he is hiding somewhere, for
he certainly would not take to the hills or
the road, and it would be madness to try the
rail."

'eyes," said Uncle Luke. ''He's safe to
make for the sea, and so get over yonder.
There's a boat lying off though, and I'm afraid
that's keeping him back. The police have that
outside to stop him."

No ; that is a boat I have chartered, Luke,
waiting to save my poor boy."

Then before many hours are gone he'll be
down by the harbour, that's my impression,"
said Uncle Luke. " Confound you, George,
why did you ever have a boy ? "

George Vine drew a long breath and remained
silent.

If you will allow me, gentlemen," said
Leslie, " I think we oug;lit not to stay here like

this. The poor fellow will not know what
precautions his friends have taken, and someone
ought to be on the look-out to give
him warning whenever he comes down to the
harbour'

Yes ; that's true."

Then if I may advise, I should suggest,
sir, that you patrol this side to and fro,
where you must see him if he comes down to
make for the west point ; I'll cross over and
watch the east pier, and if Mr. Luke Vine
here will stop about the head of the harbour,
we shall have three chances of seeing him
instead of one."

Louise pressed her hand to her throbbing
heart, as she listened to these words, and in
spite of her agony of spirits, noted how Leslie
avoided speaking to her, devoting himself
solely to the task of helping her brother;
and as she felt this, and saw that in future
they could be nothing more than the most
distant friends, a suffocating feeling of misery
seemed to come over her, and she longed to
hurry away, and sob to relieve her overcharged
breast.

"Leslie's right," said Uncle Luke, in a
decisive way. " Let's separate at once. And
look here, whoever sees him is to act, give him

some money, and get him off at once. He
must go. The trouble's bad enough now, it
would be worse if he were taken, and it's the
hist thing Van Heldre would do, hand him to
the police. Leslie ! "

He held up his hand, but the steps he heard
were only those of some fishermen going home
from the river.

Now, then, let's act ; and for goodness'
sake, let's get the young idiot away, for I warn
you all, if that boy's taken there'll be far worse
trouble than you know of now."

'' Uncle Luke ! " cried Louise piteously.

Can't help it, my dear. There will, for
I shall end a respectable life by killing old
Crampton and being hung. Come along,
Leslie."

The little party separated without a word,
and Louise and her father stood listening
till the steps of their late companions died
away.

'ein the queen's name."

As they stood together at the lower end of
the rocky point listening and waiting, it seemed
to Louise Vine as if she were about to be an
actor in some terrible scene.

Vine muttered a few words now and then,
but they were inaudible to his child, who clung
to his arm as he walked untiringly to and
fro, watching the harbour and the way back
into the town, while when he paused it
was to fix his eyes upon the dimly-seen lantern
of the lugger lying out beyond the
point. The portion of their walk nearest
the town was well kept and roughly paved
with great slabs of granite, in which were here
and there great rings for mooring purposes,
while at some distance apart were projecting
masses roughly hewn into posts. But as
the distance from the town increased and
the harbour widened, the jutting point was

almost as if it had been formed by nature,
and the footing was difficult, even dangerous
at times.

But in his excitement Vine did not heed
this, o'oincr on and on regardless of the difficulties,
and Louise unmurmuringly walked
or at times climbed along till they were rio-ht
out at the extreme point where, some feet
below them, the water rushed and eluded in
and out of the crevices with terrible gasping
noises, such as might be made by hungry sea
monsters thronging; round to seize them if
either of them should make a slip.

Here Vine paused again and again to watch
the lantern in the lugger, and listen for the
rattle of oars in the rowlocks, the oars of the
boat conveying his son to the men who would
at once hoist the sails and bear him away to a
place of safety. But the dim light of the horn
lantern rose and fell, there was no rattle of
oars, not even the murmur of a voice ; nothing
the sucking, gasping noises at their feet,
as the tide swirled by like the race of waters
from some huo^e mill.

Louise clung more tightly to her father's
arm, as he stood again and again where she
had often from a rock behind watched her
uncle deftly throwing out his line to capture

Gaol. II. I

some silvery-sided bass or a mackerel, glowing
with all the glories of the sea at sunrise.

If he should slip," she said to herself, as
she tightened her grasp of her father's thin
arm, " if he should slip ! " and she shuddered
as she gazed down into the deep, black rushing
water, where the star reflections were all
broken up and sparkled deep down as if the
current were charged with gold-dust, swirling
and eddying by. Then she started as her
father spoke aloud to himself.

No, no, no ! " he murmured. Then sharply,
Come, let us get back."

Louise crept along by him in silence, her
heart giving one violent leap, as A^ine slipped
once on the spray-swept rocks, but recovered
himself and went on without a word. Again
and again she suffered that terrible catching
of the breath, as her father slipped, caught
his foot in some inequality, or would, but for
her guidance, have stumbled over some projecting
rock post and been thrown into the
harbour. For, as he walked on, his eyes where
constantly searching the dark surface as he
listened intently for some token of the escaping
man.

But all was still as they n eared the town,
still with the silence of death. No one could

have told that there were watchers by the ferry,
where a rough boat was used for crossing from
side to side of the harbour ; that two boats
were waiting, and that Duncan Leslie was
patrolling the short arm of granite masonry
that ran down to the tower-like building where
the harbour lantern burned.

Hist ! " whispered Louise, for there was a
step some little distance away, but it ceased,
and as she looked in its direction, the cliffs
seemed to tower up behind the town till a
black, jagged ridge cut the starry sky.

"Let's go back," said her father, huskily.
'•' I fancied I heard a boat stealing aloncr the
harbour : we cannot see the luo-o-er lio-ht from

^ CO o

here."

George ! " came from out of the darkness

o

ahead.

Yes, Luke ! '"' was whispered back sharply,
and the old man came up.

'• Seen anything of him ? "

"Xo. Have you ?'^

Xot a sign. I sent one of the fishermen
up to the police to see what he could find out,
and '"'

"' Uncle ! '' panted out Louise, as she left
her father to cling to the old man.

'•' Poor little lassie ! poor little lassie ! " he

1 2

said tenderly, as lie took her and patted her
head.' "No news, and that's good news.
They haven't got him, but they're all out on
the watch ; the man from London and our
dunderheads. All on the watch, and I fancy
they're on the look-out close here somewhere,
and that's what keeps him back."

Louise uttered a low moan.

Ah, it's bad for you, my dear," said Uncle
Luke, whose manner seemed quite changed.
'you come with me, and let me take you home.
"We don't want another trouble on our hands."

"No, no," she said firmly, " 1 cannot leave
him."

But you will be ill, child."

I cannot leave him, uncle," she said again ;
and going back to her father, she locked her
fiuo^ers about his arm.

Hi ! hoi ! look out ! " came from a distance ;
and it was answered directly by a voice nota
hundred yards away.

A thrill of excitement shot through the
little group as they heard now the tramp of
feet.

I knew it," whispered Uncle Luke. " He's
making for the harbour now."

"Ah!" gasped Vine, as he almost dragged
Louise over the rugged stones.

Stop where you are," said Uncle Luke,
excitedly ; and he placed something to his
lips and gave a low shrill whistle.

It was answered instantly fmm the other
side of the harbour.

Leslie's on the look-out. Yes, and the
men with the boat," he whispered, excitedly,
as another low whistle was heard.

Then there was a few moments' silence,
as if people were listening, followed by steps
once more, and a quick voice exclaimed from
out of the darkness,

Seen him ? "

Neither of the group answered, and a man
stepped up to them and flashed the light of a
lantern quickly over them before closing it
again.

"That's you, is it?" he said. ^' I'll have
a word with you by and by ; but look here,
I call upon you two men in the Queen's
name to help me to take him. If you help
him to get away, it's felony, so you may take
the consequences. You haven't got to do
with your local police now."

The man turned away and walked swiftly
back toward the town, the darkness seeming
to swallow him up. He paused for a few
moments at the edge of the harbour, to

throw the ]ig;ht of his lantern across the
water.

"The London man," said Uncle Luke, unconcernedly.
" Well, God save the Queen,
but I'm sure she don't want us to help to
capture our poor boy."

OH ! ABSALOM, MY SOX, MY SOX."

Harry Vice had but one thought as he
dashed out of his father's house, and that was
to escape — far away to some other country
where neither he nor his crime was known —
to some place where, with the slate of his
past Hfe wiped clean, he might begin anew,
and . endeavour to show to his father, to his
sister, perhaps to Madelaine Van Heldre, that
he was not all bad. How he would try, he
told himself. Only let him get aboard one
of the fishing luo-aers, and after confiding; in
some one or other of his old friends, the bluff
fishermen who had often given him a sail ora
day's fishing beo; of him to take him across
to Jersey or St. Malo ; anywhere, so as to
avoid the terrible exposure of the law — anywhere
to be free.

I'd sooner die than be taken," he said to
himself as he sped on downward at a rapid
rate.

The way to the harbour seemed clear, and,
though the officer was pursuing him, Harry
had the advantage of the darkness, and the
local knowledge of the intricate ways of the
little town, so that he felt no fear of being
able to reach the harbour and some boat. He
was reckoning without his host. His host, or
would-be host, was the detective sergeant,
who had gone about his business in a businesslike
manner, so that when Harry Vine was
congratulating himself upon the ease with
which he was able to escape, one of the local
policemen started from his post right in the
fugitive's way, nearly succeeding in catching
him by the arm, an attention Harry avoided
by doubling down one of the little alleys of
the place. Over and over again he tried to
steal down to the harbour, but so sure as he left
his hiding-place in one of the dark lanes or
among the fishermen's stores he heard steps
before him, and with the feeling that the
whole town had now risen up against him,
and that the first person he encountered would
seize and hold him until the arrival of the
police, he crept back, bathed with cold perspiration,
to wait what seemed to be an interminable
time before he ventured again.

His last hiding-place was a wooden shed

not far from the water-side — a place of old
ropes and sails, and with a loft stored full of
carefully-dried nets, put away till the shoals
of fish for which they where needed visited the
shore. Here, in profound ignorance of what
had been done on his behalf, he threw himself
down on a heap of tarred canvas to try and
devise some certain means of escape. He had
a vague intention of getting the fishermen to
help him ; but after thinking of several he
could not decide which of the sturdy fellows
would stand by such a culprit as he. And ashe
lay there the bitter regrets for the past
began to attack him.

Louise — sister," he muttered to himself,
I must have been mad. And I lie here
groaning like the coward I am," he said
fiercely, as, thrusting back all thoughts of the
past with the intention of beginning afresh,
he stole out once more into the dark night,
meaning to get to the harbour, and, failing a
better means, to take some small sailing-boat,
and to trust to his own skill to get safely across.

The place was far more quiet now ; and,
avoiding the larger lanes, he threaded his
way through passage after passage among
the net-stores and boat-houses till he reached
the main street, along which he was walking

noiselessly when a heavy regular pace ahead
checked him, and, turning shortly round, he
made for the first narrow back lane, reached
it, and turned trembling as he recognized that
it was the familiar path leading by the back
of Van Heldre's, the way he knew so well.

Hurrying on, he had nearly readied the
bottom when he became aware of the fact that
there was a policeman waiting. He turned
sharply back, after nearly walking into the arras
of one of his enemies, and was nearly at the top
once more when he found that the man whom
he had tried to avoid was there too waiting.

"I'm caught," he said bitterly, as he paused
midway. " Shall I dash for liberty ? No,"
he said bitterly; "better give up."

He raised his hand to guide himself silently
along, when he shivered, for it touched a gate
which yielded, and as the steps advanced from
front and rear, he stepped down. Fate in her
irony had decided that, to avoid arrest, he
should take refuge in the premises of the man
he had injured. The steps came nearer, and
trembling with horror the fugitive glanced
upward to see that two windows were illumined,
and there was light enough to show
that the door leading into the corridor was
open. He shrank from it, and was then

driven to enter and stand inside, listening, for
the steps stopped outside, the door yielded,
and a voice said :

'' Couldn't have been him. He wouldn't
have gone there."

The sate swung; o-entlv to and the fugitive
began to breathe more freely, for, after a low
whispered conversation, it was evident that
the watchers were about to separate, when
there was a loud cough which Harry knew
only too well ; and to his horror he saw
faintly in at the end of the passage, his figure
more plain by a light in the hall, the short
stooping figure of Crampton coming towards
him. To have stepped out into the yard
would have been into the light, where the
old man must have seen him; and, obeying
his first instinct, Harrv crouched down, and
as Crampton advanced, backed slowly along
the corridor till farther progress was stayed
by the outer door of the office. Harry sank
down in the corner, a dark shapeless heap to
any one who had approached, and with heart
throbbing, he waited.

He is comines into the office," he thought.

But as the old man reached the opening
into the yard he paused. There was a faint
rustling, then a flash, and a match flared out.

illumining the old clerk's stern countenance,
and it seemed as the tiny splint burned that
discovery must take place now. Bat Cramp-ton
was intent upon the business which had.
brought him there. He had stolen out from
his self-appointed task of watching over the
house to have his nightly pipe, and for fully
an hour Harry Vine crouched in the corner
by the office door, seeing over and over again
the horrors of the past, and trembling as he
waited for the fresh discovery, while old
Crampton softly paced the little yard, smoking
pipe after pipe.

That hour seemed as if it would never end,
and at last in despair Harry was about to rise,
when he heard Madelaine's voice, gently calling
to the old man.

'' Hah ! " he said softly ; " a bad habit. Miss
Madelaine, but it seems to soothe me now."

Would he fasten the door and gate, and
complete the horror of Harry's position by
making him a prisoner ? The young man
crouched there trembling, for Crampton recrossed
the yard, and there was the sound of
two bolts being; shot. Then he retained the
glass door, and was about to close that.

No' said Madelaine softly ; " the night is
so hot. Leave that open, Mr. Crampton."

Yes, my dear ; yes, my dear," sighed the
old man. " I shall be in the little room, and
no one is likely to come here now."

Gone at last ; and trembling so in his Avild
excitement that he could hardly stir, Harry
Vine literally crept along the corridor, rose
up and ran across the yard with the horrible
sensation that the old clerk's hand was about
to descend upon his shoulder. The two bolts
were shot back with a loud snap, the gate was
flung open ; and, reckless now, he dashed out
and down the narrow lane.

He could bear no more," he said. " The
harbour and a boat." He ran now rapidly,
determined to end the terrible suspense, and
for the first few moments he felt that his task
would be easy ; then he heard a warning-shout,
and in his dread took refuse in the first
alley leading down to the harbour.

Steps passed, and he emerged at the lower
end, gained the main street by returning
through another of the alleys by which, after
the fashion of Yarmouth, the little town was
scored.

Five minutes will take me there now,"
he panted ; and, forcing himself to walk, he
was hurrying on when a shout told him that
his enemies were well upon the alert, \yith

the horrible sense of being hunted, he dashed
on, blindly now, reckless as to which way he
went, so long as he reached the water side.
As he ran, he was about to strike down to the
left where the landing-steps lay ; and had he
reached them there was a boat and men waiting,
but the London detective had discovered
that and was on the alert.

Harry almost ran into his arms, but with
a cry of rage he doubled back and ran for the
shore, where he might set pursuit at defiance
by hiding in the rocks below the cliff. But
another man sprang up in his way, and in his
despair he ran off to his left again, right along
the great pier, towards the point.

We've got him now," shouted a voice
behind as Harry rushed out, just conscious of
a shriek as ho brushed by a group of figures,
hardly seen in the darkness. He heard, too,
some co-infused words in which "boat" and
*• escape " seemed to be mingled. But in
his excitement he could only think of those
behind, as there came the patter of his pursuers'
feet on the rough stones.

There was a shrill whistle from the other
side of the harbour, followed by a hail, and
the splash of oars in the darkness, while a low
ahoy ! " came from off the point.

Yes," muttered the officer between ibis
teeth, " you're a nice party down bere, but
IVe got my man."

What followed was the work of moments.
Harry ran on till the rugged nature of the
point compelled bim to walk, then step
cautiously from rock to rock. Tbe barbour
was on one side, the tide rushing in on the
other ; before bim the end of the point, with
its deep water and eddying currents, wbicb
no swimmer could stem, and behind bim the
London officer with the local ]Police close up.

There was a boat, too, in the barbour, and
the fugitive bad beard the whistle and cries.
He saw the lio-bt of the luo-aer out ahead,
and to bim, in bis mad horror of capture, they
meant enemies — enemies on every band.

And so be reached the extreme point,
were, peering wildly about, like some bunted
creature seeking a way of escape, be turned
at bay.

There, sir, the game's up," cried the
officer. "You've made a good fight of it, so
now give in."

'■ Keep back ! " roared Harry hoarsely. And
be stooped and felt about for a loose piece of
rock weber every scrap bad been washed away.

'' Will you give in ? " cried the officer.

*' Keep back ! " cried Harry again, in a tone
so fierce that for a moment the officer paused.

There was another whistle from across the
harbour, a shout and a hail out of the darkness,
but nothing save the dim lantern light
could be seen.

Now then, you two," said the officer
decidedly, " back me up."

There was a faint click as he drew something
from his pocket and without hesitation
stepped boldly over the few feet which
separated him from Harry Vine.

Panting, half wild, hearing the whistles,
the cries, and still divining nothing but that
there were enemies on every hand, the young
man uttered a hoarse cry as the detective
caught at his breast. With one well-aimed
blow he struck out, sent the man staggering
back, and then, as those who had watched and
waited came panting up, he turned quickly,
stepped to the very edge, raised his hands,
and plunged into the rushing tide.

'' Harry ! my son ! " rang out on the darkness
of the night.

But there was no answer. The black water
seemed to flash with a myriad points of light,
and then ran, hissing and rushing in a contending
current, out to sea.

'the lord gave, axd "

'' Boat ahoy ! Whoever you are — this way
—boat : " ^

Ahoy ! " came back from three quarters —
from two different points in the harbour, and
from out to sea.

Then came another whistle from far back
on the other side of the harbour, and in a
shrill voice from between his hands Uncle
Luke veiled : '"' Leslie, another boat, man, for
the love of heaven ! "

"Here! you there, sir! the nearest boat
quick, pull ! " roared the detective in stentorian
tones. '• Have you no light?"

Ay, ay," came back ; and a lantern that
had been hidden under a tarpaulin coat shone
out, dimly showing the boat's whereabouts.

'•' That's right ; pull, my lads, off here. Man
overboard off" the rocks. This way."

An order was given in the boat, and her
course was altered.

VOL. II. K

No, no," cried the officer ; " this way, my
lads, this way."

We know what we're about," came back.

Yes, yes ; they know," said Uncle Luke,
hoarsely. " Let them be ; the current sets
the way they've taken. He's right out thereby
now."

The old man's arm was dimly seen pointing
seawards, but the detective was not convinced.

It's a trick to throw me on the wrong
scent," he said excitedly. " Here, you " — to
one of the local police — " why don't you
speak ? "

Mr. Luke Vine's right, sir ; he knows the
set o' the tide. The poor lad's swept right
out yonder long ago, and Lord ha' mercy upon
him, poor chap. They'll never pick him up."

Can you see him ? " roared the officer,
using his hands as a speaking-trumpet.

There was no reply ; but the lantern could
be seen rising and falling now, as the little
craft began to reach the swell at the harbour
bar. Then there was a hail out of the harbour,
as the second boat came along, and five
minutes after the rapid beat of oars told of
the coming of another boat.

Ahoy, lad ! this way," rose from the boat
with the lantern.

"Whose boat's that?" said the detective,
quickly.

Duniio," replied the nearest policeman.

They'll pick him up, and he'll escape
after all. Confound it ! Here, hoi ! you in
that boat. In the Queen's name, stop and
take me aboard."

They won't pick him up," said the nearest
policeman solemnly. " You don't know this
coast."

There was a low g-roan from a faire crouch

o

ing upon its knees, and supporting a woman's
head, happily insensible to what was passing
around.

"George, lad," whispered Uncle Luke, "for
the poor girl's sake, let's get her home.
George ! don't you hear me ? George ! It
is I Luke."

There was no reply, and the excitement
increased as a swift boat now neared the end
of the point.

Where is he ? Is he swimming for the
boat? " cried a voice, hardly recognizable in its
hoarse excitement for that of Duncan Leslie.

He jumped off, mr. Leslie, sir," shouted
one of the policemen.

Eow, my lads. Pull ! " shouted Leslie ;
"right out."

K 2

No, no," roared the detective ; " take me
aboard. In the Queen's name, stop ! "

Pull," cried Leslie to the men ; and then
turning to the detective, " While we stopped
to take you the man would drown, and you
couldn't get aboard at this time of the tide."

He's quite right," said the policeman who
had last spoken. " It's risky at any time ; it
would be madness now."

The detective stamped, as in a weird,
strange way the voices kept coming from out
of the darkness, where two dim stars could
be seen, as the lanterns were visible from
time to time ; and now Leslie's voice followed
the others, as he shouted :

This way, Vine, this way. Hail, man !
Why don't you hail ? "

Is this part of the trick to get him
away ? " whispered the detective to one of
his men. The man made no reply, and his
silence was more pregnant than any words he
could have spoken.

'' But they'll pick him up," he whispered,
now impressed by the other's manner.

Look out yonder," said the policeman, a
native of the place ; "is it likely they'll find
him there ? "

Hah ! " ejaculated the detective.

And there's no such current anywhere for
miles along; the coast as runs off here."

Hah ! " ejaculated the man again, as he
stood now watching' the lights, one of which
kept growing more distant, while the hails
somehow seemed to be more faint and wild,
and at last to resemble the despairing cries of
drowning men.

Listen' whispered the detective in an
awe-stricken tone, as he strove to pierce the
darkness out to sea.

It was Master Leslie, that," said the
second policeman ; "I know his hail."

Just then there was a wild hysterical fit
of sobbing, and George Vine rose slowly from
his knees, and staggered towards the group.

Luke ! " he cried, in a half-stunned, helpless
way, "Luke, you know Where are

you ? Luke ! "

Here, George," said Uncle Luke sadly,
for he had knelt down in the place his brother
had occupied the moment before.

You know the currents. Will they

will he "

He faltered and paused, waiting his brother's
reply, and the three officers of the law shuddered,
as, after a few minutes' silence, broken
only by a groan from the kneeling man, George

Vine cried in a piteous voice that sounded
wild and thrilling in the solemn darkness of
the night :

*^ God help me ! Oh, my son, my son ! "

Quick, mind ! Good heavens, sir ! Another
step and "

The detective had caught the stricken father
as he tottered and would have fallen headlong:
into the tide, while, as he and another of the
men helped him back to where Louise still
lay, he was insensible to what passed around.

But still the dim lights could be seen growing
more and more distant, and each hail
sounded more faint, as the occupants of the
boats called to each other, and then to him
they sought, while, after each shout, it seemed
to those who stood straining their eyes at the
end of the pier, that there was an answering
cry away to their left ; but it was only the
faint echo repeating the call from the face of
the stupendous cliffs behind the town.

'why don't they come back here and
search ? " cried the officer angrily.

What for ? " said a voice at his elbow ; and
he turned to see dimly the shrunken, haggard
face of Uncle Luke.

"What fbrr' retorted the officer. "He
may have swum in the other direction."

*•' So might the world have rolled in the
other direction, and the sun rise tomorrow
in the west," said the old man angrily. *' No
swimmer could stem that current."

'' But why have they gone so far ? "

They have gone where the current took
them," said Uncle Luke, coldly. " Want the
help of your men to get these poor creatures
home."

The detective made no reply, but stood
gazing out to sea and listening intently.
Then turning to his men —

'* One of you keep watch here in case they
trv to laud with him. You come with me."

The two policemen followed his instructions,
one taking his place at the extreme end of the
point, the other following just as voices were
heard, and a group of fishermen, who had been
awakened to the fact that there was something
wrong, came down the rocky breakwater.

Here, some of you, I want a boat — a swift
boat, and four men to pull. Ah, you ! "

This to a couple of the coastguard who had
put in an appearance, and after a few hurried
words one party went toward the head of the
breakwater, while another, full of sympathy
for the Tines, went on to the end of the
point.

There was plenty of willing held, but George
Vine had now recovered from his swoon, and
rose up to refuse all offers of assistance.

No, Luke," he said more firmly now ; '' I
must stay."

But our child, Louise ? "

*' She must stay with me."

Louise had risen to her feet as he spoke,
and clung to his arm in mute acquiescence ;
and once more they stood watching the star-spangled
sea.

Ten minutes later a well-manned boat
passed out of the harbour, with the detective
officer in her bows and a couple of the
strongest lights they could obtain.

Just as this boat came abreast of the
point the rowing ceased, and a brilliant glare
suddenly flashed out as the officer held aloft
a blue signal light ; and while the boat was
forced slowly along he carefully scanned the
rocks in the expectation of seeing his quarry
clinging somewhere to their face.

The vivid light illumined the group upon
the point, and the water flashed and sparkled
as it ran eddying by, while from time to time
a gleaming drop of golden fire dropped with
a sharp hissing explosion into the water, and a
silvery gray cloud of smoke gathered overhead.

The officer stayed till the blue light had
burned out, and then tossing the wooden
handle into the water, he gave his orders to
the men to row on out toward the other boats.
The transition from brilliant lio-ht to utter
darkness was startling it was sudden : and
as the watchers followed the dim-looking lanterns,
they saw that about a mile out they
had paused.

George Vine uttered a gasping sigh, and
his child clung to him as if both realized the
meaning of that halt. But they were wrong,
for when the men in the detective's boat had
ceased rowing, it was because they were close
abreast of the luo'oer, whose crew had hailed
them.

"Got him?"

No. Is he aboard your boat ? "

Without waiting for an answer, the detective
and his men boarded the luooer, and, to
the disgust of her crew, searched from end to
end.

Lucky for you, my lads, that he is not
here," said the officer.

Unlucky for him he ain't," said one of
the men. " If he had been we shouldn't have
had you aboard to-night."

What do you mean ? "

Only that we should have been miles
away by now."

"Do you think either of the other boats
has picked him up ? "

Go and ask 'em," said another of the
men sulkily.

No, sir," said one of the coastguard, " they
haven't picked him up."

Back ! " said the detective shortly ; and,
as soon as they were in the boat, he gave
orders for them to row towards the faint light
they could see right away east. They were
not long in coming abreast, for the boat was
returning.

Got him ? " was shouted.

"No."

Then why did you make the signal ? "

The detective officer was a clever man, but
it had not occurred to him that the blue light
he had obtained from the coastguard station
and burned would act as a recall. But soit
was, and before honos the second boat was
reached, and that which contained Duncan
Leslie came up, the latter uttering an angry
expostulation at being brought back from his
search.

It's no good, Mr. Leslie, sir," said the fisherman
who had made the baro-ain with Vine.

THE Lord GAVE, And " 139

Xo good ? " cried Leslie angrily. " You
mean you're tired, and have not the manhood
to continue the search."

Xo, sir, I don't," said the man quietly.
I mean I know this coast as well as most
men. I'll go on searching everywhere you like ;
but I don't think the poor lad can be alive."

"Ay, ay, that's right, mate," growled two
others of his fellows.

^•' He was a o-reat swimmer." continued the
man sadly ; " but it's my belief he never come
up again."

Why do you say that ? " cried the detective
from his boat, as the four hung clustered
together, a singular-looking meeting out thereon
the dark sea by lantern light.

'• Why do I say that 1 Why 'cause he
never hailed any on us who knew him, and
was ready to take him aboard. Don't matter
how good a swimmer a man is, he'd be glad
of a hand out on a dark night, and with the
tide running; so o^ashlv strong."

•'•' You may be right," said Leslie, '•' but I
can't go back like this. Xow, my lads, who's
for ooino' on ? "

All on us," said the fisherman who had
first spoken, and the boats separated to continue
their hopeless task.

All at once there was a faint streak out in
the east, a streak of dull gray, and a strange
wild, faint cry came off the sea.

"There!" cried the detective; "pull, my
lads, pull ! he is swimming still. No, no,
more towards the right."

Swimming ? — all this time, and in his
clothes 1 " said one of the coastguard quietly.
That was only a gull."

The detective struck his fist into his open
left hand, and stood gazing round over the
glistening water ; as the stars paled, the light
in the east increased till the surface of the
sea seemed steely gray, and by degrees it grew
so light that near the harbour a black speck
could be seen, toward which the officer pointed.

Buoy," said the nearest rower laconically,
and the officer swept the surface again. Then
there was a faint shade of orange nearly in
the zenith, a flock of gulls flew past, and here
and there there were flecks and splashes of
the pale silvery water, which ere long showed
the reflection of the orange sky, and grew
golden. The rocks that lay at the foot of
the huge wall of cliff were fringed with foam,
and wherever there was a break in the shore
and some tiny river gurgled down, a wreathing;
cloud of mist hunch in the hollow.

Moment by moment the various objects
grew more distinct ; black masses of rock
fringed with green or brown sea wrack, about
which the tide eddied and played, now hiding,
now revealing for some crested wave to pounce
upon as a sea monster might upon its prey.
The dark slaty rocks displayed their wreaths
of ivy, and the masses of granite stood up
piled in courses of huge cubes, as if by titanic
hands, gray with parched moss, dull and dead-looking
; and then all at once, as the sun
slowly rose above the sea, glorious in God's
light, sparkling as if set with myriads of gems,
the gray became gold, and all around there
was a scene of beauty such as no painter
could do more than suggest. Everything was
glorified by the rising sun ; sea, sky, the
distant houses, and shipping, all gleamed as
if of burnished gold — all was of supreme
beauty in the birth of that new day. No, not
all : here and there, slowly using their oars as
they scanned sea and rock, sat a crew of
haggard men, while back on the golden point
clustered a crowd watchings their efforts, and
hanging back with natural kindly delicacy
from the group of three at the extreme edge
of the granite point — two pale-faced, gray,
wild-even men, and the girl who sat crouching

on a fragment of rock, her hair loose, lier hands
clasped round her knees, and a look of agonized
sorrow in the piteous drawn face, ever directed
towards the east.

"They're all coming back," said some one
close at hand.

The man was right ; slowly one by one the
boats crept over the glorious sea towards the
harbour, Duncan Leslie's last.

Nothing ? " said Uncle Luke in a low
whisper as the coastguard boat was backed toward
the point, and the detective sprang ashore.

Nothing, sir. Poor foolish, misguided lad !
Might have been my boy, sir. I've only done
my duty ; but this is a dark night's work I shall
never forget. I feel as if I were answerable
for his death. ^'

Ten minutes later Duncan Leslie landed
in the same way, and laid his hand upon
Uncle Luke's arm.

I was obliged to come back," he said ;
*' my men are fagged out."

No siccus of him ! "

Leslie shook his head and spoke in a
whisper.

I'll be off again as soon as I can get a
fresh crew, and search till I do find him. For
Heaven's sake, sir, take them home ! "

It was a kindly whisper, but Louise heard
every word, and shuddered as she turned and
hid her face in her father's breast. For she
knew what it meant ; it was to spare her the
agonizing sight, when the sea, according to
its wont, threw something up yonder among
the ruofo'ed stones, where, to use the fishermen's
words, the current bit hardest on the
shore. She fought hard to keep back the
wild cry that struggled in her breast ; but it
was in vain, and many a rough fellow turned
aside as he heard the poor girl's piteous wail
out there in the sunshine of that glorious
morn.

Harry ! brother ! what shall I do ? "

George Vine's lips parted as he bent down
over his child. " The Lord gave, and — -^— "

His voice failed, but his lips completed
poor old stricken Job's words, and there was
a pause. Then he seemed to draw himself
np, and held out his hand for a moment to
Duncan Leslie.

Luke ! " he said then calmly and gravely.
Your arm too. Let us go home."

The little crowd parted left and right, and
every hat was do fixed in the midst of a great
silence, as the two old men walked slowly up
the rough pier, supporting the stricken girl.

Duncan Leslie followed, and as they passed
on through the narrow lane of humble, sympathizing
people of the port, these turned in
and slowly followed, two and two, bareheaded,
as if it where a funeral procession.

Just then, high above the top of the grand
cliff, a lark soared up, sprinkling the air as
from a censer of sound, with his silvery notes
joyous, loud, and thrilling ; and one patriarchal
fisherman, who had seen many a scene of
sorrow in his time, whispered to the mate
walking at his side —

Ay, lad, and so it is ; midst of life wee are
in death."

Ah," sighed his companion ; " but on such
a morn as this ! "

AT THE Granite HOUSE.

The Vines lead hardly readied their home
when quietly and in a furtive way boat after
boat put off down the harbour, from the little
punt belonging to some lugger, right .up to
the heavy fishing craft, rowed by six or eio-ht
men. There was no communication one with
the other ; no general order had been issued,
but, with one consent, all were bent upon the
same mission, and hour after hour, every mass
of weedy rock, chasm, hollow, and soin was
scanned, where it was known that the current
was likely to throw up that which it had
engulfed ; but, though every inch of shore
was searched, the task proved to be without
avail, and the brothers, seated together in
the quaint, old-fashioned dining-room, waiting
to be summoned for the reception of their
dead, sat waiting', and without receiving the
call.

VOL. n. L

Louise had refused to leave them, and hncl
clung to her father, asking to be allowed to
stay ; but no sooner was the consent obtained
than it proved to be useless, for the poor girl
was completely prostrated by the excitement
and horror of the past night, and had to be
helped up to her couch.

And there the brothers sat in silence, George
Vine calm, stern, and with every nerve on the
strain ; Uncle Luke watching him furtively
without attempting to speak.

When any words had passed between the
brothers, the old cynic's voice sounded less
^ harsh, and its tones were sympathetic, as he
^"^'strove to be consolatory to the suffering man.
They had been seated some time together in
silence, when Uncle Luke rose, and laid his
hand upon his brother's shoulder.

I don't know what to say to you, George,"
he whispered softly. " For all these years
past I've been, what you know, a childless,
selfish man ; but I feel for you, my lad — I
feel for you, and I'd bear half your agony, if
I could''

George Vine turned upon him with a piteous
smile, and took the hand resting on his
shoulder.

*' You need not speak, Luke," he said sadly.

Do you think we have lived all these years
without my understanding my brother, and
knowing what he is at heart 1 "

Luke shook his head, gripped the hand
which held his firmly, but could not speak.

'•' I am orsini: to bear it like a man, please
God; but it is hard, Luke, hard; and but
for poor Louise's sake I could wish that my
journey was done''

No, no ; no, no, George," said the brother
huskily. '• There is, lad, much to do here
vet — for you, my boy — for Louise — that poor,
half-crazy woman up-stairs, and Uncle Luke,
who is not much better, so they say. No, my,-
boy, you must fight — you must bear, and bear
it bravely, as you will, as soon as this first
shock is over, and there's always hope — always
hope. The poor boy may have escaped."

*' Ay, to where ? Luke, brother, for Heaven's
sake let me be in peace. I cannot bear to
speak now. I feel as if the strain is too great
for my poor brain."

Luke pressed his hand, and walked slowly
to the window, from whence he could gaze
down at the boats oroinsf and coming: into the
harbour ; and he shuddered as he thought
what anv one of them mio^ht brings.

Better it should, and at once," he said to

L 2

himself. " Hell know no rest until that is
past."

He turned and looked in wonder at the door,
which opened then, and Aunt Marguerite,
dressed in one of her stifFest brocades, pale,
but with her eyes stern and fierce, entered the
room, to sweep slowly across, till she was
opposite to George Vine, when she crossed her
arms over her breast, and began to beat her
shoulder with her large ivory fan, the thin
leaves making a peculiar pattering noise against
her whalebone stiffened bodice.

"Don't talk to him, Margaret," said Uncle
Luke, coming forward. " He is not fit. Say
what you have to say another time."

Silence ! you poor weak imbecile ! " she
cried, as her eyes flashed at him. " What do
you do here at a time like this ? Now," she
continued, darting a vindictive look at her
broken-hearted brother, " what have you to
,say?"

"To say, Margaret?" he replied piteously.
-" God help me, what can I say ? "

Nothing, miserable that you are. The
judgment has come upon you at last. Have
I not striven to save that poor murdered boy
from you — to raise him from the slough into
which you plunged him in your wretched

degradation. Time after time I have raised
my voice, but it has been unheard. I have
been treated as your wretched dependant, who
could not even say her soul was her own, and
with my heart bleeding, I have seen "

"Margaret, you were always crazy," cried
Uncle Luke fiercely ; " are you raving mad ? "

"Yes," she cried. "AYorm, pitiful crawling
worm. You are my brother by birth, but
what have I seen of you but your wretched
selfish life — of you who sold your birthright
to sink into the degraded creature you are, so
degraded that you side with this man against
me, now that he is worthily punished for his
crime against his son."

I cannot listen to this," cried Uncle Luke
furiously.

Let her speak," said George Yine sadly ;
she thinks she is right."

And so do you," cried Aunt Marguerite.
If you had kept the poor boy a gentleman
all this would uot have happened. See to
what extent you have driven the poor, brave-hearted,
noble boy, the only true Des Yignes.
You, degenerate creature that you are, maddened
him by the life you forced him to lead,
till in sheer recklessness he took this money,
struck down the tyrant to whom you made

him slave, and at last caused him to be hunted
down till, with the daring of a Des Vignes, he
turned, and died like one of his chivalrous
ancestors, his face to his foes, his "

Bah ! " cried Uncle Luke, with a fierce
snarl, "his chivalrous ancestors!"

'' Luke ! "

"I tell you, George, I'm sick of the miserable
cant. Died like a hero! AVoman, it
was your miserable teaching made him the
discontented wretch he was."

"For pity's sake, Luke."

I must speak now," cried the old man
furiously ; " it's time she knew the truth ; but
for you, dio, in return for the shelter of your
brother's roof, filled the boy's head with your
vain folly, he would have been a respectable
member of society, an honest Englishman,
instead of a would-be murderer and thief."

"It is false ! " cried Aunt Marguerite.

"It is true ! " thundered the old man, in
spite of his brother's imploring looks ; " true,
and you know it's true. Died like a hero,
with his face to the foe ! He died, if he be
dead, like a coward, afraid to face the officer
of the law he had outraged — a disgrace to the
name of Vine."

Aunt Marguerite stood gazing at him, as if

trying to stay him with the lightning of her
eyes, but his burst of passion ^Yas at an end,
and he did not even realize that her vindictive
looks had faded out, and that she had grown
ghastly as a sheet, and tottered half palsied
from the room.

For, horrified by the agony he read in his
brother's face, Luke Vine had seized his hands,
and was crazing; imploringly at him.

'' Forgive me, George," he whispered. '' I
knew not what I said."

"Let me be alone — for a while," faltered
his brother. " I am weak. I cannot bear it
now.

But the strain was not yet at an end, for at
that moment there was a tap at the door, and
Liza entered, looking red-eyed and strange ;
and a sob escaped her as she saw her master's
face.

'''A gentleman to see you, sir. He must
see you at once," she stammered.

'•' If you please, Mr. Vine," said a short,
stern voice, and, without further ceremony,
the detective officer entered the room.

George Vine rose painfully, and tried to
cross where the man stood inside the door,
looking sharply from one to the other.

"No," he said inaudibly, as his eyes seemed

to grasp everything ; 'they're honest. Don't
know where he is."

George Vine did not cross to the officer :
his strength seemed to fail him.

o

'•' You have come," he said slowly, as he
tried to master a piteous sigh. " Luke, you
will come with me '? "

"Yes, lad, I'll come," said Uncle Luke.
Then turning towards the officer, he whispered,
Where did you find the poor lad ? "

You are labouring under a mistake, sir,"
said the man. " We have not found him —
yet. My people are searching still, and half
the fishermen are out in their boats, but they
say it is not likely that they will find him
till after a tide or two, when he will be cast
ashore."

The words sounded hard and brutal, and
Luke gave the speaker a furious look as he
saw his brother wince.

Why have you come here, then ? " said
Uncle Luke, harshly. "Do you think he has
not suffered enough ? "

The officer made no reply, but stood, notebook
in hand, thinking. Then sharply :

A person named Pradelle has been staying
here."

Yes," said Uncle Luke, with a snap of his

teeth ; *"' and if you had taken him instead of
hunting' down our poor boy you would have
done some good. '

'•'All in good time, sir. I expect he was at
the Bottom of it all. Have you any information
you can give me as to where he is likely
to have gone ? "

Where do all scoundrels and thieves go to
hide ? London, I suppose."

•'"' I expected that," said the officer, talking
to Uncle Luke, but watching George Vine's
drawn. oTief-stricken face the while. " I daresay
we shall be able to put a finger upon him
before long. He does not seem to have a very
good record, and yet you gentlemen appear to
have given him a welcome here."

George Vine made a deprecating movement
T\*ith his hands, the detective watching him
keenly the while, and evidently hesitation
something he had to say.

"And now, sir," said L"'ncle Luke, "you'll
excuse me if I ask you to go. This is not a
time for cross-examination."

Eh ] perhaps not," said the officer sharply,
as he o'ave the old man a resentful France.
Then to himself, '* AVell — it's duty. He had
no business to. Lve no time for fine feelings."

"At another time," continued Uncle Luke,

'' if you will come to me, I dare say I can give
you whatever information you require."

Oh, you may rest easy about that, sir,"
said the officer, half laughingly, " don't you be
afraid. But I want a few words now with
this other gentleman."

And I say no ; you shall not torture him
now," cried Uncle Luke angrily. " He has
suffered enough."

"Don't you interfere, sir, till you are called
upon," said the officer roughly. " Now, Mr.
George Vine, if you please."

I will not have it," cried Uncle Luke ; " it
is an outrage."

Let him speak, brother," said George Vine,
with calm dignity. "snow, sir, go on."

I will, sir. It's a painful duty, but it is a
duty. Now, sir, I came here with a properly
signed warrant for the arrest of Henry Vine,
for robbery and attempted murder."

"Ah ! " sighed Vine, with his brow wrinkling.

The young man would have resigned himself
quietly, but you incited him to resist the
law and escape."

"It is quite true. I have sinned, sir," said
Vine, in a low pained voice, " and I am ready
to answer for what I have done."

But that is not all," continued the officer.

Not content with aiding mv prisoner to
escape, you attacked me, sir, and twice over
you struck me in the execution of my duty."

Is this true, George ? '"' cried Uncle Luke,
excitedly.

Yes," said his brother, calmly bending to
this new storm : " yes, it is quite true."

Well, sir, what have you to say ? "

Nothing."

'•' You know, I suppose, that it is the duty
of every citizen to help the officers of the
law ? "

'eyes."

'•' And yet you not only fought against me,
but struck me heavily. I have the marks."

Yes ; I own to it all."

"And you know that it is a very serious
offence ? "

Yes," said the wretched man ; and he sank
into the nearest chair, looking straight before
him into vacancy.

"Well, sir," said the officer sharply, " Ym
glad you know the consequences." Then turning
sharply on Uncle Luke, who stood biting
his lips in an excited manner, '' Perhaps you'll
come into the next room with me, sir. I
should like a few words with you."

Uncle Luke scowled at him. as he led the

way into the drawing-room, and shut the door
angrily.

Now, sir," he began fiercely, '' let me "

Hold hard, old gentleman ! " said the
officer ; " don't be so excitable. I want a few
words, and then, for goodness' sake, give mea
orlass of wine and a biscuit. I've touched
nothing since I came here last night."

'' Ah ! " ejaculated Uncle Luke, furiously ;
but the man went on —

Of course it's a serious elinor striking an
officer ; let alone the pain, there's the degradation,
for people know of it. I'm sore at
losing my prisoner, and if he had not held
me I should have had the young fellow
safe, and that horrible accident wouldn't have
happened.'^

And now what are you going to do '? "
snarled Uncle Luke ; " drag him off to gaol ? "

Going to act like a man, sir. - Think I'm
such a brute ? Poor old fellow, I felt quite
cut, hard as I am, and I'd have asked him to
shake hands over it, only he couldn't have
taken it kindly from me. You seem a man of
the world, sir. He's one of those dreamy sort
of naturalist fellows. Tell him from me I'd
have given anything sooner than all this should
have happened. It was my duty to see him

about his resistance to the law. But, poor old
fellow, he was doing his natural duty in defence
of his boy, just as I felt that I was doing
mine."

Uncle Luke did not speak, but stood holding
out his hand. The officer gripped it eagerly,
and they two stood gazing in each other's faces
for a few moments.

Thank you," said Uncle Luke gently ; and
after a time the officer rose to go.

Yes, sir," he said, at parting, " I shall stay
down here till the poor boy is found. Someone
in town will be on the look-out for our
friend Pradelle, for, unless Lm very much mistaken,
he's the monkey who handled the cat's
paws. Good morning."

Uncle Luke stood at the door watching
the officer till he was out of sight, and then
returned to the old dining-room, to find his
brother still gazing into vacancy, just as he
had been left"'

News, Luke '? " he said, as he looked
eagerly. '"'Xo, you need not speak. Perhaps
it is better so. Better death than this terrible
dishonour."

GEORGE VINE ASKS FOR HELP.

'' She shall go. I always knew she was a
thief," said Aunt Marguerite, as she stood by
her open window, listening to a whispered
communication going on. " Wait till Louise
can act like a woman, and see to her housekeeping
again, and that girl shall go."

She listened aofain, and could hear a rouse.
woman's voice urging something, while the
more familiar voice of Liza was raised acrain

o

and again in a whispered protest.

Then followed more talking, and at last
there was a pause, followed by a hasty
whisper, and the heavy step of old Poll Per-row,
with her basket on her back, supported
by the strap across her brow. Aunt Marguerite
had been to her niece's door again and
again, and tried it to find it fastened ; and
she could get no response to her taps and calls.
She seemed to feel no sorrow, only rage against

all by whom she was siiiTOunded ; and, isolated
as it were, she spent the afternoon going to
aod fro between her own room and one which
curve her a o'ood view of the harbour mouth
with boats o-oino- and returning ; for the search
for the body of Harry Vine was kept np without
cessation, the fishermen lending themselves
willingly to the task, and submitting, but with
an ill grace, to the presence of the police.

Aunt Marguerite, however, in spite of her
vindictive feeling, suffered intense grief; and
her sorrow seemed to deepen the lines in her
handsome old face.

'• They've murdered him, they've murdered
him I '' she kept on muttering as she watched
the passing boats. " Xo one understood him
but me."

She drew back sharply from the window,
for just then a closely veiled figure came
hurriedly into view, her goal being evidently
the old granite house.

Aunt Marguerite's eyes sparkled with vindictive
malice.

'eyes," she said, half aloud; "and you too,
madam — you had your share in the poor boy's
death. Oh ! bow I do hate your wretched
Dutch race."

She crossed to the door, and opened it

slightly, to stand listening, to hear voices a
few minutes later, and then steps on the
stairs, which stopped, after a good deal of
whispering, at her niece's door, after which
there was a low tapping, and Liza's voice
arose :

Miss Louise ! Miss Louise ! "

'' Yes, knock again. She will not answer.
One of them has some pride left."

Miss Louise, Miss Louise, you're wanted,
please."

There was no reply, nor yet to repeated
knocks. There was a smile of satisfaction on
Aunt Marguerite's face as she drew herself up,
and opened her fan as if at some presentation,
or about to dismiss an intruder ; but her
countenance changed directly, and, forgetting
her dignity, she craned forward, for all at once
a pleading voice arose.

'' Louise, Louise, for pity's sake let me in."

There was a short pause, and then the sharp
sound of the shooting back of a bolt and the
creaking of a door. Then it was closed again,
and as the listener threw her own open there
came the faint sound of a passionate cry and
a low sobbing.

Aunt Marguerite stepped out into the passage,
her head erect, and her stiff silk trailing

noisily behind her, to go to her own room,
but the way was barred by the presence of
Liza, who was down on the floor crouched ina
heap, sobbing passionately, with her apron
up to her eyes.

Get up ! " said Aunt Marguerite imperiously,
as she struck at the girl's hand with
her fan.

liiza leaped to her feet, looked aghast at
the figure before her, and fled, while Aunt
Marguerite strode into her room, and loudly
closed the door. As she passed her niece's
chamber, Louise was clasped tightly in Madelaine's
arms, and it was long before the two
girls were seated, hand in hand, gazing wonderingly
at the inroads made so soon by grief.

It is so horrible — all so horrible," whispered
Madelaine at last, for the silence was
for long unbroken, save by an occasional sob.
Louise looked at her wildly, and then burst
into a passion of tears.

Maddy ! " she cried at last, 'ris it all
true ? "

They could say no more, but sat gathering
comfort from the sympathetic grasp of each
other's hands.

At last, in a dull heavy way, the words
came, each sounding as if the speaker were in

VOL. II, M

despair, but willing to suffer so that her companion
might be spared, and by degrees Louise
learned that Van Heldre still lay in the same
insensible state, the awaking from which
Madelaine shrank from with horror, lest it
should mean the return 'for a brief time of
sense before the great final change.

I could not come to you," said Louise,
after a long silence, as she gazed wistfully in
her friend's face, "and thought we should
never meet again as friends."

You should have known me better," replied
Madelaine. "It is very terrible, such a
such a — oh, Louie, dearest, there must have
been some mistake. Harry — Harry could not
have been so base."

Louise was silent for a time. At last she
spoke.

There must be times," she said gently,
when even the best of us are not answerable
for our actions. He must have been mad.
It was when, too — he had — promised — he had
told me — that in the future — oh," she cried,
shuddering, as she covered her face with her
hands, " it can't be true — it cannot be true."

Again there was a long silence in the room,
whose drawn-down blind turned the light of a
sickly yellow hue. But the window was open

and from time to time the soft sea breeze
wafted the blind inward, and a bright ray of
sunny light streamed in like hope across the
two bent forms.

'• I must not stay long," said Madelaine.
I shiver whenever I am away, lest "

Xo, no," cried Louise, passionately, as she
strained her friend to her breast, " we will not
despond yet. All this comes across our lives
like a dense black cloud, and there must be a
teat chancre in the future. Your father will
recover."

I pray that he may," said Madelaine.

And I will not believe that Harry is —
dead."

'' I pray that he may be alive, Louie, to
come some time in the future to ask forgiveness
of my father. For I did love him,
Louie ; at first as a sister might the brother
with whom she had played from childhood,
and of late in sorrow and anguish, as the
woman whom he had always said he loved. I
fought with it, oh, so hard, but the love was
there, and even when I was most hard and
cold "

'•' And he believed you cared for Mr.
Leslie."

The words slipped from Louise Vine's lips

M 2

like an escaped thought, and the moment they
were spoken, she shrank away with her pale
cheeks crimsoning, and she gazed guiltily at
her companion.

It was a foolish fancy on his part," said
Madelaine gravely. " I cannot blame myself
for anything I ever said or did to your brother.
If I had been wrong, my lapse would have
come upon me now like the lash of a whip ;
but in the long hours of my watches by my
poor father's bed, I have gone over it again
and aofain, and I cannot feel that I have been
wrong."

Louise drew her more closely to her breast.

Maddy," she whispered, " years will have
to pass, and we must separate. The pleasant
old days must end, but some day, when all
these horrors have been softened by time, we
may call each other sister again, and in the
long dark interval you will not forget."

Forget ! " said Madelaine, with a smile
full of sadness. " You know that we shall
always be unchanged."

'* Going — so soon ? " exclaimed Louise, for
her friend had risen.

He is lying yonder," said Madelaine. " I
must go back. I could not stay away long
from you, though, without a word."

They stood for a few moments clasped in
each other's arms, and then Id a slow, sad way
went hand in hand towards the door. As she
opened it for her friend to pass through,
Louise shrank back from the burst of sunshine
that flooded the passage, and placed her hand
across her eyes. It was a momentary act, and
then she drew a long breath and followed her
friend, as if her example had given the needed
strength, and acted as an impetus to raise her
from the lethargic state into which she had
fallen.

In this spirit she went down with her to
the door, when, as their steps sounded on the
hall floor, the dining-room door was thrown
open quickly, and Vine .stood in the darkened
opening, gazing wildly at the veiled figure of
Madelaine.

Van Heldre ? " he said, in an excited

whisper; 'not — not " He could not

finish his speech, but stood with his hand
pressed to his throat.

sly father's state is still unchanged," said
Madelaine gently.

Then there may yet be hope, there may
yet be hope," said Vine hoarsely as he shrank
once more into the darkened room.

"Mr. Vine," said Madelaine piteously, as

she stood with extended hands asking sympathy
in her grievous trouble.

My child ! " he cried, as he caught her to
his breast, and she clung there sobbing bitterly.
Then he softly disengaged her hands from his
neck. " No, no," he said dreamily, " I am
guilty too ; I must never take you to my
heart again."

What have I done ? " sobbed Madelaine,
as she clung to him still.

You ? " he said fondly. '' Ah ! it was
once my dream that you would be more and
more my child. Little Madelaine ! "

He drew her to his breast again, kissed her
with spasmodic eagerness, and then held out a
hand to Louise, who flew to his breast as with
an angry, malicious look. Aunt Marguerite
advanced to the end of the landing and
looked down at the sobbing group.

Good-bye ! " whispered the stricken man
hoarsely, " good-bye, my child. I am weak
and helpless. I hardly know what I say ; but
you must come here no more. Good-bye."

He turned from them hastily, and glided
back into the darkened room, where Louise
followed him, as Madelaine went slowly down
toward the town.

Vine was seated before the empty grate, his

head resting: on his hand, as Louise went to his
side, and he started as if from a dream when
she touched his shoulder.

"You, my child?" he said, sinking back.
Ah ! stay with me — pray with me. It is so
hard to bear alone."

THE OLD WATCH-DOG.

The silence as if of death reigned for days
and clays at Van Heldre's house, which, unasked,
old Crampton had made his residence.
In a quiet furtive way he had taken possession
of the inner office, to which he had brought
from his own house a sofa cushion and pillow,
carrying them there one dark night unseen,
and at times, no doubt, he must have lain
down and slept ; but to all there it was a
mystery when he did take his rest.

If Mrs. Van Heldre called him to partake
of a meal he came. If he was forgotten he
ate one of a store of captain's biscuits which
he kept in his desk along with his very strong
tobacco, which flavoured the said biscuits ina
way that, being a regular smoker, he did
not notice, while at ten o'clock he regularly
went out into the yard to have his pipe. He
was always ready to sit up and watch, but,

to his great annoyance, lie had few opportunities,
the task being shared between Made-lain
e and her mother.

As to the business of the office, that went
on as usual as far as the regular routine was
concerned, everything fresh being put back
till the principal resumed his place at his
desk. Bills of lading, the smelting-house
accounts, bank deposits, and the rest, all
were attended to, just as if Van Heldre had
been there instead of lying above between
life and death. From time to time Mrs. Van
Heldre came down to him to beg that he
would ask for everything he wanted.

*' I cannot help neglecting you, ]\lr. Cramp-ton,"
she said, with her hands playing about
the buttons of her dress.

Never you mind about me, ma'am," he
said, admonishing her with a penholder. " I'm
all right, and waiting to take my turn."

Yes, yes, you're very good, Mr. Crampton,
and you will see that everything goes on right,
so that when he comes down he may find that
we have not neglected any single thing."

Crampton frowned, but his face grew smooth
aorain as he looked at the little anxious count



penance before him.

Don't you be afraid, ma'am. If Mr. Van

Helclre came down to-day everything is ready
for him — everything."

Yes, of course, Mr. Crampton. I might
have known it. But I can't help feeling
anxious and worried about things."

Naturally, ma'am, naturally ; and I've
been trying to take all worry away from you
about the business. Everything is quite right.
Ah ! " he said as the little woman hurried
away from the office, "if Miss Maddy would
only talk to me like that. But she won't forgive
me, and I suppose she never will." He
made an entry and screwed up his lips, as he
dipped a pen in red ink and ruled a couple of
lines, using the ebony ruler which had laid his
master low. " Poor girl ! I never understood
these things ; but they say love makes people
blind and contrary, and so it is that she seems
to hate me, a man who wouldn't rob her father
of a penny, and in her quiet hiding sort of
way worships the man who robbed him of five
hundred pounds, and nearly killed him as well.
Ah ! it's a curious world."

I've — I've brought you a glass of wine and
a few biscuits, Mr. Crampton," said Mrs. Van
Heldre, entering and speaking in her pleasant
prattling way. Then she set down a tray, and
hurried out before he could utter his thanks.

Good little woman' said Crampton.
Some people would have brought a glass
of wine and not the decanter. Well, yes,
ma am, I will have a glass of wine, for I feel
beat out."

He poured out a glass of good old sherry,
held it up to the light, and closed one
eye.

"Your health, Mr. Van Heldre," he said
solemnly. '• Best thing I can wish you. Yours,
Mrs. Van Heldre, and may you never be a
widow. Miss Madelaine, your health, my dear,
and may your eyes be opened. Tm not such
a bad man as you think."

He drank the glass of wine, and then made
a grimace.

Sweet biscuits," he said, " only fit for
children. Hah, well! Eh? What's the
matter ? "

He had heard a cry, and hurrying across
the office, he locked the door, and ran down
the orlass corridor to the house.

Worse, ma'am, vrorse ? " he cried, as Mrs.
Van Heldre came running down the stairs and
into the dining-room, where she plumped herself
on the floor, and held her hands to her
lips to keep back the hysterical sobs which
strut-ded for vent.

*' Shall I run for the doctor, ma'am ? "

No, no ! '' cried Mrs. Van Heldre, in a
stifled voice, with her mouth still covered.
Better."

Better ? "

She nodded violently.

Then it was very cruel of you, ma'am,"
said the old man plaintively. " I thought —
I thought "

Crampton said no more, but he walked to
the window with his face buried in his great
yellow silk handkerchief, blowing his nose
with a continuity and force which became
at last so unbearable that Mrs. Van Heldre
went out into the hall.

She went back soon into the dining-room,
where Crampton was waiting anxiously.

He looked at me when I was in the room
with my darling child, Mr. Crampton, and his
lips parted, and he spoke to me, and I was
obliged to come away for fear I should do him
harm."

'' Come away, ma'am ! and at a time like
that ! " said Crampton, angrily.

Mrs. Van Heldre drew herself up with
dignity.

My child signed to me to go," she said
quietly ; and then with her eyes brimming

over with tears, " Do you think I would not
have given the world to stay ? "

At that moment Madelaine came quickly
and softly into the room.

"He is sleeping," she whispered excitedly ;
he looked at me and smiled, and then his
eyes closed and he seemed to go into a calm
sleep, not that terrible stupor, but sleep.
Mother, come and see — it must be sleep."

Old Crampton was left alone to begin pacing
the room excitedly for a few minutes, when
Madelaine came down once more.

Pray go for Dr. KnatchbuU ! " she cried
piteously.

But isn't he "

AVe do not know — we are afraid to hope —
pray, pray go."

*' She hasn't spoken so gently since that
night," muttered Crampton, as he hurried
down the street. " Poor girl ! it is very hard ;
and this may be only the change before — No,
I won't think that," cried the old clerk, and he
broke into a run.

Crompton REPORTS PROGRESS.

Yes," said Dr. Knatchbull, confidently ;
he will get over it, now. Can't say," he
said, rubbing his hands in his satisfaction,
whether it's the doctor's physic, or the
patient's physique, but one of them has
worked wonders. What do you say, Miss
Van Heldre?"

That we can never be sufficiently grateful
to you."

Never," cried Mrs. Van Heldre, wringing
his hand.

Bah ! " exclaimed the doctor, "that's what
you people say now that you have got to the
turn ; but by and by when I send in my bill
and I mean to make this a pretty stiff one,
Mrs. Van Heldre — you will all be as grumpy
as possible, and think it a terrible overcharge."

Well, really, Dr. Knatchbull," began Mrs.
VaiL Heldre, ruffling up like an aggravated

hen, " I am quite sure my clear husband will
pay any "

]lamina, mamma, dear ! " cried Madelaine,
smiling' through her tears : " can you not see
that Dr. Knatchbull is laughing' at us ? "

No, my dear," said the little lady angrily ;
but if he is, I must say that it is too serious
a matter for a joke."

"So it is, my dear madam," said the doctor,
taking her hand, " far too serious ; but I felt
in such high spirits to find that we have won
the fight, that I was ready to talk any nonsense.
All the same though, with some people
it's as true as true."

"Yes, but we are not some people," said
Mrs. Van Heldre. " But now tell us what weare
to do."

"Nothing, my dear madam, but let him
have rest and peace."

But he has been asking for Mr. Crampton
this mornings, and that means business."

Well, let him see him tomorrow, if he
asks. If he is not allowed, he weill fidget,
and that will do him more harm than seeing
him, only I would not let him dwell on the
attack. Divert his attention all you can, and
keep from him all you possibly can about the
Vines."

John Yan Heldre did not ask for his confidential
clerk for two days more, the greater
part of which time he spent in sleep ; but in
the intervals he talked in a low voice to his
wife or Madelaine, not even alluding once, to
their great surprise, to the cause of his illness.

'' He must know it, mamma," said Madelaine,
sadly ; *' and he is silent, so as to spare
me."

At last the demand for Crampton was made,
and the old clerk heard it looking eao^er and
pleased.

*' At last, ma'am," said Crampton, rubbing
his hands.

You'll go up very quietly, Mr. Crampton,"
said Mrs. Yan Heldre. " If you would not
mind."

She pointed to a pair of slippers she had laid
ready. The old clerk looked grim, muttered
something about the points of his toes, and
ended by untying his shoes, and putting on
the slippers.

Madelaine was quite right, for no sooner had
Yan Heldre motioned the clerk to a chair by
the bed's head, learned that all was right in
his office, and assured the old man that he
was a-mending fast, than he opened upon him
regarding the attack that night.

*' "Was that money taken ? " he said quickly.

"Is it ri'jht for you to beo^iii talking about
that so soon 'i " replied Crampton.

Unless you want me to go backwards,
yes," said his employer, sharply. " There,
aiis\ver my questions. I have nothing the
matter now ; only weak, and I cannot ask
any one else."

I'm your servant, Mr. Van Heldre," said
Crampton, stiffly. " Go on, sir."

That money, then ? "

Gone, sir, every note. Five hundred
pounds."

'dead loss," said Van Heldre; 'but it
must be repaid."

Humph ! pretty' opinion you seem to have
of me, sir, as a confidential clerk."

What do you mean, Crampton ? "

Mean, sir ? Why, that I did my duty, and
stopped every note at the bank of England of
course."

You did that, Crampton ? "

"Yes, sir; and those notes are of no use to
anybody."

"Capital. Hah! that's better. Five hundred
just coming on the other misfortune worried
me. Why, Crampton, that's a white paper
plaister for my sore head."

VOL. II. N

'^ Glad you're satisfied, sir."

"More than satisfied. Now tell me: have
the police any notion who committed the
robbery ? "

Crampton nodded.

Do you know ? "

Crampton looked at his employer curiously,
and nodded again.

Have they taken any one ? "

No, sir," said the old man sadly.

Hah ! That's bad. Who was it ? "

Well, sir, you know of course ? "

'^ I ? No ! ''

You don't know, sir ? "

I have no idea, Crampton. I heard a
noise, and went in and surprised the scoundrel,
but it was quite dark, and as I tried to seize
him I was struck down."

And you mean to assure me, sir, that you
don't know who it was ? "

I have not the most remote idea."

Well then, sir, I must tell you it was him
who had been robbing you ever since the first
day he came to us."

Robbing me "? "

'' Well, not exactly of money in hard cash
but of your time, which is just the same.
Time's money. Always an hour late."

Van Heldre turned upon him fiercely.

Cramp ton, can you let your prejudice go
so far as to suspect that young man ? "

"Yes, sir, I can. . . . Suspect? No, I am
sure. I doubted him from the first."

'•' It is monstrous. You were unjust to him
from the first."

'^ I, sir ? "

Yes. But then how can a man who has
never had a child be just to the weaknesses of
the young ? "

I can be just, sir, and I have been. You
don't know the supercilious way in which
that boy treated me from the day he entered
our office. Always late, and as soon as he
was settled down to his work, in must come
that scoundrel with the French name to ask
for him, and get him away. Why, Mr. Van
Heldre, sir, if I hadn't been a law-abiding
subject of her Most Gracious Majesty Queen
Victoria, I'd have knocked that man down."

Bah ! " said Van Heldre impatiently, ashe
lay back frowning, and looking very
thoughtful. " I am sorry that you should
have entertained such a suspicion about the
son of my old friend."

Ah 1 " sighed Crampton. " Poor :mr. Vine !
It's heart-breaking work, sir. It is, indeed."

N 2

'' Heart-breaking ! " said Van Heldre. " It
is atrocious, lliere, I will not speak angrily,
Crampton."

No, sir. You must not ; and now I'm
going, sir. You've talked twice as muck as is
good for you."

Sit down," said Van Heldre sternly.

Crampton, who had moved towards the
door, slowly resumed his place.

I am not too weak to talk about this
terrible accusation. I am not going to say
much now, only to ask you to throw aside
all this prejudice and to look upon the
mishap as an unfortunate occurrence. Come,
Crampton, be a little broader. Don't be so
ready to suspect the first person you dislike,
and then to keep obstinately to your
opinion."

Better not talk any more," said Crampton
shortly.

I must talk," said Van Heldre, more
sternly. " Mind this, Crampton, you are
wrong."

The care, want of rest, and anxiety had
produced a state of acidity in the old clerk's
organization which had made him exceptionally
irritable.

^' Wrong, eh ? " he said sharply.

*eyes; and T must call upon you to be
careful to keep these fancies to yourself."

Fancies, sir ? "

'eyes, fancies, man. I would not on any
consideration have Mr. Vine know that such a
suspicion had existed in my office, and "

He paused for a few moments, and then
held out his hand to the old clerk, who took
it, and ftdt his own gripped warmly.

Come, Crampton," continued Van Heldre,
smiling ; '' after all these years together, I
trust we are something more than master and
man. You have always proved yourself a
friend in the wav in which you have looked
after my interests."

'•' I've always tried to do my duty, Mr. Van
Heldre."

"And you always have done your duty —
more than your duty. Now just go quietly
down, and ask Henry Vine to step up-stairs
with you. I must have this put straight at
once. Crampton, you and my old friend's son
must make a fresh start."

Crampton's fresh countenance grew dingy-looking,
and Van Heldre felt his hand
twitch.

'•' Come, I tell you that your suspicions are
absurd, and I must have you two work well

together. The young man only wants a little
humouring to make him all that we could
wish. Go and fetch him up."

*' He — he is not here this morning, sir'
gasped Crampton, at last.

"Not here?"

*' No, sir," said the old man hastily ; and he
passed the hand at liberty across his face.

*' I am sorry. I should have liked to settle
this now it is on my mind."

Crampton looked wildly towards the door,
in the hope that the coming of wife or
daughter would brinor al)Out a diversion.

Of course," said Van Heldre suddenly,
you have not shown the young man that
you have had this idea in your head ? "

Crampton was silent, and as Van Heldre
looked at him he saw that the great beads of
perspiration were standing upon his face.

Why, good heavens, Crampton," he cried,
you have not breathed a word of all this to
a soul ? "

The old clerk looked at him wildly.

Ah ! you are keeping something back,"
said Van Heldre.

Hush, sir, hush ! " cried the old clerk in
alarm; "for goodness' sake don't be excited.
Think of how weak you are''

Then answer," said Van Helclre. in a
low whisper. " Tell me what you have
(lone ? "

I — I did everything for the best, sir."

'henry Vine ! You did not accuse him of
this terrible affair ? "

Crampton's face grew gradually hard and
stern. His tremulous state passed off, and he
turned as if at bay.

Cramp ton ! Good heavens, man ! What
have you done ? "

I had to think of you sir, lying here. Of
Mrs. Van Heldre, sir, and of Miss Madelaine."

Yes, yes ; but speak, man. What have
you done ? "

My duty, sir."

And accused him of this — this crime ? "

Crampton was silent.

Are you mad ? Oh, man, man, you must
have been mad."

Crampton drew a long breath.

Do my wife and daughter know ? "

Yes, sir," said Crampton slowly.

And — and they have spoken as I speak ?
They told you it was prejudice."

Crampton drew a long breath once more.

Don't, pray don't say any more, sir — not
now," he said at last pleadingly.

'' They — surely they don't — there, quick !
King that bell."

Mr. Van Heldre, sir. Pray — pray don't take
it like that ; I only did my duty by you all."

*' Duty ! In a fit of madness to make such
a charge as this and prejudice others!" cried
Van Heldre angrily. '' Being that bell, man.
I cannot rest till this is set right."

*' Think, sir, how I was situated," pleaded
the old clerk. " You were robbed ; I saw you
lying, as I thought, dying, and I saw the
scoundrel who had done all this escape. What
could I do but call in the police 1 "

The police ! Then it is known by everyone
in the place '? "

Crampton looked pityingly down at the
anguished countenance before him.

"And Henry Vie ? He refuted your
charge ? Speak, man, or you will drive me
mad."

Henry Vine did not deny the charge, sir.
He was manly enough for that."

Crampton, is this all true ? "

It was my duty, sir."

He does not deny it ? Oh ! it seems
monstrous. But you said the police ; you
gave information. Crampton — his father —
his sister — my poor child ! "

Is saved from a villain, Mr. Van Heldre ! "
cried the old clerk fiercely. '' Better she
.should have died than have married such a
man as he."

'•' And I — I lying here helpless as a child,"
said the sick man feebly. " But this must all
be stopped. Crampton, you should not have
done all this. Now go at once, fetch George
Mne here, and — Henry — the young man.
Where is he ? "

Gone, sir, to answer for his crime," said
the old man solemnly. "Henry Vine is dead."

A TITLE OF Honour.

Duncan Leslie sought patiently and well,
but he was as unsuccessful as the rest, and
after searching from a boat and being pulled
close in along the shore, he rose at daybreak
one moruincr, and crossings the harbour, went
up along the cliff away to the east, and wherever
he could find a place possible for a descent,
he lowered himself from among the rocks, and
searched there.

The work was toilsome, but it was an outlet
for his pent-up energy, and he went on and
on, reaching places where the boat could not
land him ; Int even here he found that he had
been forestalled, for hunting along among the
broken rocks, he could see a figure stepping
cautiously from crag to crag, where the waves
washed in, and the slimy sea-wrack made the
task perilous, the more so that it was the figure
of a woman, whom he recognized as the old

fish-dealer by the launch hanging on her back
from the band across her forehead.

As he toiled after her she looked round, and
waited till he came up, and addressed him ina
sirio^ino' tone.

"Not found him, have you, sir?"

Leslie shook his head, and continued his
search, seeing the old woman on two alternate
days still peering about among the rocks, like
many more, for the young master, and more
stubborn in her search than any of the
rest.

By slow degrees the search was given up.
It had been kept up long after what would
have been customary under the circumstances,
some of the searchers working from sheer
respect for the Vines, others toiling on in the
hope of reward.

But there was no result, and the last of the
boats, that containing Duncan Leslie, returned
to the harbour, after days of seeking to and
fro along the coast.

I felt it were no good all along, Mr. Leslie
sir," said the old fisherman who had been
chartered for the escape. '' Sea's a mystery,
sir, and when she gets hold of a body she
hides it where mortal man can't find it, and
keeps it till she's tired, and then she throws

it ashore. I've watched it well these thirty
years, and one gets to know by degrees."

Leslie bowed his head dejectedly.

Course I wasn't going; to say so before,
sir, because it's a man's booty like to go on
seeking for what's lost ; but, mark my words,
sir, one o' these days that poor fellow will be
throned up pretty close to where he jumped
in. You mark my words, he will, and Poll
Perrow will be the first to see."

Leslie thought but little of the man's words
then; in fact he hardly heard them, for in
those hours his mind was full of Louise's
sufferings, and the terrible misfortune which
had come upon the homes of those two
families so linked together, and now so torn
apart. Unsuccessful in his search, he was
now terribly exercised in mind as to what he
should do to help or show some sympathy for
the poor girl who, in the sorrow which had
befallen her home, seemed nearer and dearer
to him than ever.

It was a hard problem to solve. He wished
to show his willingness to help, but he felt
that his presence at the Vines' could only be
looked upon now as an intrusion, and must
inflict pain.

On the other hand, he was in dread lest he

should be considered indifferent, and in this
state of perplexity he betook himself to Uncle
Luke.

"Nonsense, mv o-ood fellow," said the old
man quickly; "what more could you have
done { "

"I don't know," he said desolately. 'tell
me ; I want to help — to serve you all if I can,
and yet I seem to do nothing."

'•' There is nothing that we can do," said the
old man solemnly. " Time must be the only
cure for their trouble. Look at me, Duncan
Leslie ; I came to live up here with the fewest
of necessities — alone, without wife or child,
to be away from trouble, and you see I have
failed. I cannot even help myself, so how can
you expect to help them ? There, leave it all
to time."

'•' x\nd your brother, how is he ? "

Leslie felt that he had been speaking for the
sake of saying something, and he bit his lip,
as the old man o-ave him a peculiar look.

How is a man likely to be who has lost a
son as he has lost his ? "

Leslie was silent.

And now you would ask after my niece,
young man, but you feel as if you dare not."

Leslie gave him an imploring look.

'' Broken-hearted as her poor father, Leslie,
seeing nothing in the future but one black
cloud of misery. There, let's go out and sit
in the sunshine and think."

Leslie followed the old man without a word.
He longed to ask his advice about that future,
and to question him about the friend in France,
for in spite of himself he could not help feeling
a thrill of satisfaction at the thought that fora
certainty there must be an end to that
engagement. No scion of a great house could
enter into an alliance with the sister of a man
whose career had ended as had ended Harry
Vine's.

But he could not lay bare his heart to that
cynical old man, who read him as easily as the
proverbial book, and on whose lip there was
always lurking the germ of a sneering smile.

He accompanied him then to his favourite
seat among the rocks, just in front of his
cottage, and they sat in silence for a time,
Leslie hardly caring to start a topic lest it
should evoke a sneer.

*' Let's go down into the town," said Uncle
Luke, jumping up suddenly.

Leslie rose without a word, and looked
wonderingly at the old man, dio, with his
eyes shaded by his hands, was gazing along

the riio-nred coast towards where, looking like
dolls, a couple of fishermen were standing by
something lying on a pebbly patch of sand.

Leslie looked at Uncle Luke, but the old
man avoided his gaze, as if unwilling to lay
spare his thoughts, and together they walked
pretty quickly down the steep slope.

Yes," said Uncle Luke ; " the doctor sa's
he will pull him through."

"Mr. VanHeldre?"

Yes. Why don't you go and see him ? "

I have sent to ask again and again, but I
felt that any call on my part in the midst of
such trouble would be out of place."

Walk faster," said the old man excitedly,
"if you can. No. Let me go on alone. Look
at them — running. Look ! "

Leslie had already noted the fcict, and out
of respect for the old man he stopped short at
once, with the result that LTncle Luke stopped
too.

"Why don't you come on?" he cried.
Good heavens, man, what can I do alone ?
There, there, Leslie, it's of no use, I can play
the cynic no longer. Man is not independent
of his fellows. I never felt more in need of
help than I do now."

Leslie took the old man's arm, and could

feel that lie was trembling, as they hurried on
down towards the harbour, which they would
have to cross by the ferry before they could
reach the little crowd gathering round the
first two men on the patch of sand.

Keep a good heart, sir," said Leslie, gently.
It may not be after alL"

Yes, it is — it is," groaned Uncle Luke.
"IVe hung on so to the belief that being a
clever swimmer he had managed to get away ;
but I might have known better, Leslie, I might
have known better."

'let's wait first and be sure, sir."

"There is no need. I don't think I cared
for the boy, Leslie ; there were times when he
made me mad with him for his puppyism ; but
he was my brother's son, and I always hoped
that after a few years he would change and
become another man."

Well, sir, let's cling to that hope yet."

"No, no," said the old man gloomily.
"There is the end. He was no thief, Leslie.
Believe that of him. It was his wretched
scoundrel of a friend, and if Harry struck
down poor Van Heldre, it was in his horror of
being taken. He was no thief."

As they reached the lowest turn of the cliff-path,
the old man gripped Leslie's arm with

spasmodic violence and stopped short, for the
far side of the harbour lay before them, and
they could see clearly all that was going on
amid the rocks behind.

wye should be too late," he said huskily"'
Your eyes are younger than mine. That's the
police sergeant yonder in that boat, isn't it ? "

'•' Yes."

Uncle Luke stood motionless, watchings,
and they could see that a boat rowed out
from the harbour had gone on, and put in
just opposite to the patch of the sand where
that remote something had been cast up by
the sea. To have carried it would have meant
the use of a boat at the little ferry, and it
was evident that the sergeant had decided to
bring the sad flotsam and jetsam round to the
harbour steps.

Leslie felt the old man's arm tremble, and
his efforts to be firm, as they stood and
watched the boat put off again, after a few
minutes' delay. Then the little crowd which
had collected came slowly back over the
rugged shore till they reached the eastern
arm of the harbour just as the boat was
coming in, and a piece of sail spread in the
stem sheets told but too plainly the nature
of her load.

VOL. II. o

*' Mr. Luke Vine' said Leslie.

Yes," cried the old man, starting and
speaking in a harsh way, as if suddenly brought
back to the present.

Will you let me make a suggestion ? "

The old man only stared hard at him.

Let me spare you this painful scene. It
may not be as you think, and if it is not, it
will be a shock ; but if — there, let me go, and
if it prove to be according to your fears, let
me send you word by a trusty messenger,
and you can then go up to your brother's
house and break the terrible news as gently
as you can."

Uncle Luke shook his head and began to
descend the slope, timing his speed so as to
reach the harbour steps at the same time as
the boat.

There was a crowd waiting, but the people
parted respectfully to allow the old man and
his companion to pass, and the next minute
Uncle Luke was questioning the sergeant with
his eyes.

The man stepped ashore, and gave an
order or two which sent a constable off at a
trot, and another policeman took his post at
the head of the steps, to keep the way down
to the boat.

'' Am I to speak plainly, sir ? " said the
detective in a low voice.

Yes ; let me know the worst."

I'm afraid it is, sir. We have made no
examination yet."

He did not finish all he had to say aloud,
but whispered in the old man's ear. Uncle
Luke made an effort to be firm, but he shuddered
and turned to Leslie.

Up to the King's Arms," he said huskily ;
and taking Leslie's arm, the old man walked
slowly towards the waterside inn ; but they
had not gone half-way before they encountered
George Vine coming hastily down.

Uncle Luke's whole manner changed.

"Where are you going?" he cried half
angrily.

His brother merely pointed to the boat.

How did you know ? Who told you ? "
he said harshly.

"No one," was the calm reply. "Luke, do
you suppose I could rest without watching for
what I knew must come ? "

His piteous, reproachful voice went to the
heart of his hearers.

Tell me," he continued earnestly, " Mr.
Leslie, the truth."

There is nothing to tell, sir," said Leslie

O 2

gravely, " so far it is only surmise. Come with
us and wait."

Their suspense was not of long duration.
In a very short time they were summoned
from where they were waiting to another room,
where Dr. Knatchbull came forward with a
face so full of the gravity of the situation that
any hope which flickered in Duncan Leslie's
breast died out on the instant ; and he heard
George Vine utter a low moan, as, arm in arm,
the two brothers advanced for the identification,
and then Luke led his brother away.

Leslie followed to lend his aid, but Uncle
Luke signed to him to go back.

He stood watching them till they disappeared
up the narrow path leading to the old granite
house, and a sense of misery such as he had
never before felt swelled in the young man's
breast, for, as he watched the bent forms of
the two brothers, he saw in imagination what
must follow, and his brow grew heavy as he
seemed to see Louise sobbing on her father's
neck, heart-broken at her loss.

And yet I could not help clinging to the
hope that he had swum ashore," muttered
Leslie, as he walked back to the inn, where he
found Dr. Knatchbull in conversation with the
officer.

I wish I lead never seen Cornwall, sir,"
said the latter warmly ; " poor lad ! poor
lad : "

'•' Then there is no doubt whatever ? " said
Leslie hurriedly.

Identification after all these days in the
water is impossible," said the doctor ; " I mean
personal identification."

•'•' Then it may not be after all," said Leslie
excitedly.

The detective shrugged his shoulders, and
took a packet from a little black bag. This
he opened carefully, and placed before Leslie
a morocco pocket-book and a card-case, both
stamped with a gold coronet and the motto,
J^oj/ et Fot/, while, when the card-case was
drawn open and its water-soaked contents were
taken out, the cards separated easily, and
there, plainly enough, was the inscription, the
result of Aunt Marguerite's inciting —

'•' Henri Co nit e des lignes!'

POLL Perron GOES A-begging.

Dark days of clouds vvitli gloomy days of
rain, such as washes the fertile soil from the
tops of the granite hills, leaving all bare and
desolate, with nothing to break the savage
desolation of the Cornish prospect but a few
projecting blocks, and here and there a grim-looking,
desolate engine-house standing up
like a rough mausoleum erected to the memory
of so much dead coin.

There were several of these in the neighbourhood
of Hakemouth, records of mining
adventures where blasting and piercing had
gone on for years in search of that rich vein
of copper or tin, which experts said existed so
many feet below grass, but which always
proved to be a few feet lower than was ever
reached, and instead of the working leading
to the resurrection of capital, it only became
its grave.

The rain fell, and on the third day the
wind beat, and much soil was washed down
into the verdant, ferny gullies, and out to
sea. The waves beat and eddied and churned
up the viscous sea wrack till the foam was
fixed and sent flying in balls and flakes up the
rocks and over the fields, where it lay like
dirty snow.

In and out of the caverns the sea rushed and
bellowed and roared, driving the air in before
it, till the earth seemed to quiver, and the
confined air escaped with a report like that of
some explosion. Then the gale passed over,
the stars came out, and in the morning, save
that the sea looked muddy instead of crystal
clear and pure, all was sunshine and joy.

During the storm there had been an inquest,
and with the rain pouring down till there were
inches of water in the grave, the body of the
unfortunate man was laid to rest.

Duncan Leslie had been busy for a couple
of hours in a restless, excited way, till, happening
to look down from up by his engine-house,
he caught sight of a gray-looking figure seated
upon a stone by the clifl'-path. Giving a few
orders, he hurried along the track.

Uncle Luke saw him coming, out of the
corner of one eye, but he did not move, only

sat with his hands resting upon his stick,
gazing out at the fishing-boats, which seemed
to be revelling in the calm and sunshine, and
gliding out to sea.

Good morning''

Bah ! nothing of the kind," said Uncle
Luke, viciously. "There isn't such a thing."

No ? " said Leslie, smiling sadly.

Nothing of the kind. Life's all a mistake.
The world's a round ball of brambles with a
trouble on every thorn. Young Harry has
the best of it, after all. Get wet ? "

Yesterday at the funeral ? Yes, very."

"Hah! Saw you were there. Horrible
day. Well, good job it's all over."

Leslie was silent, and stood watching the
old man.

Something ujDset you ? " he said at last.

Upset me ? Do you think it's possible
for me to go to my brother's without being
upset ? "

No, no. It has been a terrible business for
you all."

wasn't talking about that," snapped out
Uncle Luke. " That's dead and buried and
forgotten."

N05 sir ; not forgotten."

'' I said, ' and forgotten.' "

Leslie bowed.

Confound that woman ! " continued Uncle
Luke, after a pause. '"' Talk about Huguenot
martyrs, sir ; my brother George and that girl
have lived a life of martyrdom putting up with
her."

She is old and eccentric."

She has no business to be old and eccentric.
Nobody has, sir ; unless — unless he shuts himself
up all alone as I do myself. I never
worry any one ; I only ask to be let alone.
There, you needn't sneer."

'•' I did not sneer, sir."

No, you didn't, Leslie. I beg pardon.
"You're a good fellow, Leslie. True gentleman.
No man could have done more for us.
But only to think of that woman attacking
poor George and me as soon as we got back
from the funeral. Abused him for desjradinoj
his son, and driving him to his terrible death.
It was horrible, sir. Said she would never
forgive him, and drove Louise sobbing out of
the room."

Duncan Leslie winced, and L^ncle Luke
gave him a stern look.

Ah, fool — fool — fool ! " he exclaimed.
"Can't you keep out of those trammels?
Louise ? Yes, a nice girl — now ; but she'll

grow up exactly like lier aunt. We're a half-mad
family, Leslie. Keep away from us."

'•'Mr. Luke Vine "

"No, no. You need not say anything.
Be content as you are, young man. Women
are little better than monkeys, only better-looking.
Look at my sister. Told George
last night that he was living under false
pretences, because he signed his name Vine.
Bah ! she's an idiot. Half mad."

He turned sharply round from gazing out
to sea, and looked keenly in Leslie's face.

Very well," he said quickly. " 1 don't
care if you think I am."

'' Eeally, Mr. Luke Vine, I "

Don't trouble yourself to say it. You
thought I wasn't much better than my sister.
I could see you did. Very well ; perhaps I
am not, but I don't go dancing my lunacy in
everybody's face. Ah, it's a queer world,
Leslie."

No, sir ; it is the people who are queer."

Humph ! That's not bad for you, Leslie.
Yes ; you are about right. It is the people
who are queer. I'm a queer one, so my folks
think, because I sent my plate to the bank,
had my furniture in a big town house sold,
and came to live down here. My sister says,

to disgrace them all. There, I'm better now.
AYant to speak to me ? "

N — no, nothing very particular, Mr.
Vine."

Uncle Luke tightened his lips, and stared
fiercely out to sea.

Even he can't tell the truth," he said.
Stupid fellow ! Just as if I couldn't read
him through and through."

The meeting was assuming an unpleasant
form when there was a diversion. Poll Perrow
coming slowly up, basket on back, examining
each face keenly with her sharp, dark eyes.

Morning, Master Leslie," she said in her
sing-song tone. '^ Nice morning, my son.
Morning, Master Luke A^ine, sir. Got any
fish for me to-day ? "

Leslie nodded impatiently ; Uncle Luke
did not turn his head.

I said to myself," continued the old
woman, " Master Luke Vine saw that shoal
of bass ofi" the point this morning, and hell
be sure to have a heavy basket for me of what
he don't want. D essay I can sell you one,
Mr. Leslie, sir."

Can't you see when two gentlemen are
talking ? " said Uncle Luke, snappishly. " Go
away."

Ay, that I will, Master Luke, only let's
have the fish first."

'' I told you I haven't been fishing."

Nay, not a word, Master Luke. Now, did
he, Master Leslie ? No fish, and I've tramped
all the way up here for nothing."

Shouldn't have come, then."

It's very hard on a poor woman," sighed
Poll, sinking on a stone, and resting her hands
on her knees, her basket creaking loudly.
"All this way up and no fish."

No ; be off."

Miss, Master Luke, I'll go ; but you've
always been a kind friend to me, and I'm
going to ask a favour, sir. I'm a lone woman,
and at times I feel rashly ill, and I thought
if you'd got a drop of wine or spirits "

To encourage you in drinking."

Now listen to him, what hard things he
can say, Master Leslie, when I'm asking fora
little in a bottle to keep in the cupboard for
medicine."

Go and beg at my brother's," snarled
Uncle Luke.

How can I, sir, with them in such trouble ?
Give me a drop, sir ; 'bout a pint in the
bottom of a bottle."

Hear her, Leslie ? That's modest. What

would her ideas be of a fair quantity ? There,
you can go, Poll Perrow. You'll get no spirits
or wine from me."

Not much, sir, only a little."

A little ? Ask some of your smuofoiino-
friends that you go to meet out beyond the
East Town."

The woman's jaw dropped, and Leslie saw
that a peculiar blank look of wonder came
over her countenance.

Go to meet— East Town ? "

'eyes ; you're always stealing out there now
before daybreak. I've watched you."

Now think of that. Master Leslie," said
the woman with a forced laugh. " I go with
my basket to get a few of the big mussels
yonder for bait, aud he talks to me like that.
There, see," she continued, swinging round her
basket and taking out a handful of the shellfish,
'that's the sort, sir. Let me leave you
a few, Master Luke Vine."

I don't believe you, Poll. It would not
be the first time you were in a smuggling
game. Remember that month in prison ? "

Don't be hard on a poor woman," said
Poll. " It was only for hiding a few kegs of
brandy for a poor man."

"Yes, and you're doing it again. I shall

just say a word to the coast-guard, and tell
them to have an eye on some of the caves
yonder."

No, no : don't, Master Luke, sir," cried
the woman, rising excitedly, and making the
shells in her basket rattle. " You wouldn't be
so hard as to get me in trouble."

'' There, Leslie," he said with a merry laugh ;
am I right ? Nice, honest creature this !
Cheating; the revenue. If it was not for
such women as this, the fishermen wouldn't
smuggle."

"But it doesn't do any one a bit of harm.
Master Luke, sir. You won't speak to the
coast-guard ? "

Indeed, but I will," cried Uncle Luke,
"and have you punished. If you had been
honest your daughter wouldn't have been
charged with stealing down at my brother's."

And a false charge too," cried the woman,
ruffling up angrily. Then changing her
manner, " Now, Master Luke, you wouldn't
be so hard. Don't say a word to the coastguard."


Not speak to them ? Why, time aftertime
I've seen you going off after some game."

"And more shame for you to watch. I
didn't spy on you when you were down the

town of a nio'iit, and I used to run against
you in the dark lanes by the harbour."

Uncle Luke started up with his stick in his
hand, and a curious gray look in his face.

Saw — saw me ! " he cried fiercely. '' Why,
you — but there, I will not get out of temper
with such a woman. Do you hear ? Go, and
never come here ao-ain."

Very well, Master Luke, sir, I'm going
now," said the woman, as she adjusted the
strap across her forehead ; " but you won't be
so hard as to speak to the coast-guard. Don't
sir, please."

The woman spoke in a low, appealing way ,
and after trying in vain to catch Luke Vine's
eye, she went slowly up the hill.

Bad lot — a bad family," muttered L^ncle
Luke uneasily, as he glanced sharply up at
Leslie from time to time. " Good thing to
rid the place of the hag. Begging at my
brother's place for food and things every time
I've been there. Yes. Good morning, Leslie,
crowd morning"

He nodded shortly and went into the
cottage, cutting short all further attempts at
being communicative.

Leslie walked steadily back up the hill to
his works, and had not been at his office eve

minutes before Poll Perrow's basket was
creaking outside.

''I know you won't be so rashly hard on
a poor woman, Master Leslie," she said. " It
ain't true about me getting brandy, sir. Let
me have a drop in the bottom of a bottle, sir.
You'll never miss it, and you don't know
what good you'll do a poor soul as wants it
bad."

^'Look here," said Leslie, "I'll give you
some on one condition ; that you do not come
here ao;ain to bess."

Not if I can help it, sir ; but a well-off
gentleman like you will never miss a drop.
A pint will be plenty, sir, in as small a bottle
as you can."

Leslie could not help laughing at the
woman's impudence, but he said nothing, only
went into the house and returned with a pint
bottle filled with the potent spirit.

'' And bless you for it. Master Leslie ! "
cried Poll Perrow, with her eyes sparkling.
*' Now, sir, only one little thing more."

'' No," said Leslie, sternly. " I have given
you what you asked ; now go."

I only want you to put in a word for me
to Master Luke, sir. Don't let him speak to
the coast-guard."

Don't be alarmed ; the old man is too
good-hearted to do anything of the kind.
But I should advise you to give up all such
practices. There : good-day."

Good-day, and bless you, my son ! " cried
Poll eagerly. " I shan't forget this."

I ^Yas foolish to give it to her," said Leslie
to himself, as he watched the woman's slowly
retiring figure ; and then he turned his eyes
in the direction of the Vines', as it stood
peaceful and bright-looking on its shelf by the
cliff, across the intervening valley.

"Might venture to-night. Surely they
would not think it intrusive ? Yes : I will."

Duncan Leslie felt better after coming to
this determination, and went busily about his
work at the mine.

Poll Perrow went straight down into the
little town and then np the path at the back,
trudging steadily along and at a very good
pace, till she saw about fifty yards in front a
figure going in the same direction.

Miss Madlin ! " she said to herself. '' Fd
know her walk anywhere. And all in black,
too. Ah ! "

Poll Perrow stopped short with her mouth
open.

How horrid ! " she ejaculated. " It killed

VOL. II. P

him then, after all. Poor Master Van Helclre !
Poor Master Harry Vine ! "

She rubbed a tear away with her rough
brown hand. Then starting up, she made the
mussels in her basket rattle.

What nonsense ! " she said. " Why, Master
Crampton told me last night, and down the
street, that Master Van Heldre was much
better, and he couldn't ha' died and Miss
Madlin gone in mourning since last night.
They couldn't ha' got the gown made."

By this time Madelaine had reached the
Vines' gate and gone in.

'' Phew ! "

Poll Perrow gave vent to a low whistle,
something like the cry of a gull.

Why, I know ! " she muttered. " Miss
Madlin's gone into mourning all along o'
Master Harry. Then my Liza's a great goose.
She was fond of him after all. Why ! only
to think ! "

She turned off down a narrow path, so as
to get round to the back door, where she was
met by Liza, looking very red and angry.

Now, what have you come for again ? I
saw you coming as I let Miss Madlin in, and
it's too bad."

Oh, Liza, Liza ! " said the fish woman.

'' what a wicked girl you are to talk to your
poor mother like that ! "

'■ I don't care whether it's wicked or whether
it ain't wicked, but I just tell you this : if
you come begging again, you may just go
back, for you'll get nothing here. It's disgraceful
; you taking to that."

No, no, not begging, my dear," said Poll,
staring at her daughter's red-brown face, as if
lost in admiration. " Lor, Liza, what a hansom
gal you do grow ! "

Now, do atone, mother, and don't talk
like that."

I can't help it, Liza. I wonder half the
fisher-lads in port ain't half mad after you."

Now, mother, be quiet ; you'll have Miss
Marofreet hear ! "

o

Nay, she'll be down-stairs with the company,
won't she ? Yes, Liza, you do grow
more and more hansom every day."

Then you oughtn't to tell me so, mother.
It'll only make me prouder than I am. Now,
what do you want again ? This is four times
you've been here this week."

Is it, my dear ? Well, you see, I've got
some of them big mussels as you're so fond
on, and I brought you a few to cook for your
supper."

P 2

It's very good of you. Well, there : give
them to me, and do please go."

'' Yes, my dear, there you are. That's
right. Haven't got a bit o' cold meat, and a
bit o' bread you could give me, have you,
Liza ? "

'* No, I haven't, mother ; and you ought to
be ashamed to ask."

So I am, my dear, almost. But you have
got some, or half a chicken and some ham."

Chicken ! Oh, the idea ! "

Yes. There's a good girl ; and if there's
a bit o' cold sudden, or anything else, let's
have it too. Put it all together in a cloth."

Now, mother, I won't. It's stealing, and
I should feel as if I'd stole it."

Oh, what a gal you are, Liza ! Why,
didn't I wash and iron and bring home that
last napkin, looking white as snow ? "

'eyes, but "

'' And so I will this."

But you won't bring back the cold chicken
and ham," retorted Liza.

Why, how could I, my dear ? You know
they won't keep."

AVell, once for all, mother, I won't, and
there's an end of it."

'' You'll break my heart, Liza, 'fore you've

done," whispered the fisherman. " Think
o' the days and days as I've carried you 'bout
in this very basket, when I've been out
gathering mussels or selling fish."

Now, don't talk stuff, mother. You feared
out half-a-dozen baskets since then."

Perhaps I have, Liza, but I haven't feared
out the feeling that you're my gal, as lives
here on the fat o' the land, and hot sudden
every day, and refuses to give your poor
mother a bit o' broken little to save her from
starving. Oh ! "

Mother, don't ! " cried Liza, stamping her
foot. " If you cry like that they'll hear you
in the parlour."

'•'Then give me a bit o' something to eat,
and let me go."

*' I won't, and that's flat, mother."

Then I shall sit down on the front doorstep,
and I'll wait till Miss Louie comes ; and
she'll make you give me something. No, I
won't ; I'll stop till cook comes. Where is she ? "

A-cleaning herself."

'then I shall wait."

Oh, dear ! oh, dear ! " cried Liza, stamping
about, and speaking in a tearful whisper.
I do wish I never hadn't had no mother,
that I do."

There's a ungrateful gal," said the fish-woman
; " and you growed up so beautiful,
and me so proud on you'

^' Well, will you promise to go away, mother,
and never come and ask no more if I give you
something this time ? "

"To be sure I will, my dear, of course.
There, be quick, before any one comes, and
do it up neat in a napkin, there's a good gal,
and I'll bring you a lobster next time I come."

There, now, and you promised you wouldn't
come no more."

Ah, well, I won't then, my dear."

Then I'll get you a bit this time ; but
mind, never no more."

''No, never no more, my beauty. Only
be quick."

Liza disappeared, and Poll Perrow took
off her basket and sat down on the edge,
rubbing her knees and laughing heartily to
herself, but smoothing her countenance agairj
directly, as she heard her daughter's step.

There, mother," whispered Liza, " and I
feel just as if there was the police after me,
same as they was after Master Harry. This
is the last time, mind."

"Yes, my beauty, the last time. What is
there ? "

''Xo, no, don't open it," cried the girl, laying
her hand sharply upon the parcel she had
given to her mother. " There's half a pork pie,
and a piece of seed cake, and a bit o' chicken."

'' Any bread ? "

'eyes, lots. Xow hide it in your basket,
and go."

'' To be sure I will, Liza." And the white
napkin and its contents were soon hidden
under a piece of fishing-net. " There, goodbye,
my dear. You'll be glad you've helped
your poor old mother, that you will, and —
Good morning', ]\Iiss Maro^reet."

Put that basket down," sake the old lady
sharply, as she stood gazing imperiously at
the detected pair.

Put the basket down, miss ? "

Yes, directly. I am glad I came down
and caught you in the act. Shameful ! Disgraceful
! Liza, take out that parcel of food
stolen from my brother."

Xo, no, Miss Margaret, only broken wattles,
as would be thrown away."

Quick ! Take it out, Liza. Xow go."

Liza stooped down, sobbing, and pulled the
bundle out of the basket.

I always said you'd be the ruin of me,
mother," she sobbed.

No, no, my dear," cried the woman ;
^' Miss Margaret won't be hard on us. Let
me have it, miss, do, please."

Go away ! " cried Aunt Marguerite fiercely.

Pray, pray do, miss," cried the woman
imploringly.

"Go away, I say ! " cried Aunt Marguerite,
and if you set foot on these premises again,
you shall leave with the police. Go ! "

Poor Liza stood inside the door, sobbing,
with the bundle of good things neatly pinned
up in her hand, while Aunt Marguerite stood
pointing imperiously with her closed fan, as
if it were a sceptre, till Poll Perrow, with
her basket swung once more upon her back,
disappeared out of the gate.

Now, madam," said Aunt Marguerite, " the
moment that young person in the drawing-room
has gone, you shall receive your dismissal,
and in disgrace."

A MEETING IX PAIX.

George Vine sat in this easy-chair in front
of the fire-pkee, gazing at the cut paper
ornaments and willow shavings, and seeing
in them the career of his son, and the dismal
scene in the churchyard, with the rain falling
and making little pearls on the black coffin
cloth.

He had not spoken for hours, but from
time to time, as Louise laid her hand upon
his arm, he had slowly taken and pressed it
between his own before raising it with a sigh
to his lips.

"Don't speak to me, my darling," he had
pleaded to her when he first took his place
there that morning. " I want to think."

She had respected his prayer, and in her
endeavours to take her thoughts from the
horrors which oppressed her she had stolen
into her father's study, as an idea struck

her, but only to come away sadly. Her visit
had been too late ; the cherished collection
of marine objects were one and all dead.

Her father looked up as she returned. He
had not seemed to notice her, but he knew
where she had been, and as he gave her a
questioning look Liza entered the room.

Miss Van Heldre, miss."

Vine caught his child's hand, as if too
weak for the encounter ; but, as the closely-veiled
figure in black crossed the room quickly,
and both realized the meanings of those mourning
garments, Louise burst into a wild fit of
sobbing, and turned away for a moment, but
only to be clasped directly in Madelaine's
arms.

There was an earnest, loving embrace, and
then Madelaine turned to Vine, laying her
hands upon his breast, and kissing him as a
child would its parent.

So much better," she said, in answer to
the wistful, inquiring look directed at her.
I have come to fetch you both."

To fetch us ? " faltered Vine with a horrified
look.

My father begs you will come to him. I
am his ambassador. You will not refuse ? "

'' 1 cannot meet him," said Vine in a faint

voice full of despair ; " and," lie added to
himself, '' I could not bear it."

'•' He would come to you, but lie is weak
and sufferings," said Madelaine as she laid
her hand upon the stricken man's arm. " ' Tell
him I beg he will come to me,' he said," she
whispered. '' You will not refuse, Mr. Vine ? "

•' Xo, I will not refuse. Louise, dear ? "

Yes, father, I will go with you," she said
slowly ; and in a few minutes she returned,
ready for the walk, and crossed to where her
father sat holding; Madelaine's hand.

As she entered he rose and met her.

Louise, my child, must we go ? " he said
feebly. " I feel as if it were almost more than
I can bear. Must we go ? "

"Yes," she replied gravely ; "we must

go.;

Vine bowed his head.

"Come, my child," he said, turning to
madeline, and he was half-way to the door
when Aunt Marguerite entered.

Going' out ? " she said, shrinking from the
sombre figure in black.

"Yes, aunt."

You must attend first to what I have to
say, Louise. Miss Van Heldre can, I dare
sav, wait."

Maclelaiue bent her head and drew back.

'' I have business with Mr. Van Heldre,
Marguerite," said Vine more sternly than he
had ever spoken to her before. " You must
wait till our return."

Aunt Marguerite's eyes flashed an indignant
look at Madelaine, as the cause of this
rebuff, and she drew back with a stiff courtesy
and walked slowly before them out of the
room.

George Vine gazed wildly round him ashe
walked slowly down the steep way toward
the town. It seemed terrible to him that in
such a time of suffering and mourning, sea,
sky, and earth should be painted in such
lovely colours. The heavy rain of the previous
days seemed to have given a brilliancy
to leaf and flower that before was wanting ;
and as, from time to time, he glanced wildly
at the rocky point, the scene of the tragedy
of his life, the waves were curling over, and
breaking in iridescent foam upon the rocks,
to roll back in silvery cataracts to the sea.

He turned away his eyes with a shudder,
fighting hard to keep his thoughts from the
horrors of that night ; but he was doomed to
have them emphasized, for, just before reaching
the foot of the steep way, the little party

came suddenly upon the great burly fisherman,
who had undertaken to sail across to St. Malo
with the fugitive that nioiit.

Morning', master," he said.

Vine turned ghastly pale, and his brain
reeled ; but he soon recovered himself.

Louise, Madelaine, my children, go on,
and I will follow."

Louise looked at him appealingly ; but he
was perfectly firm, and she went on with her
friend.

I fear, in the midst of my trouble, Perrow,
that I had forgotten my engagement with
you."

"Like enough, master, and no wonder.
There was no hurry."

'eyes, but there is," said Vine slowly.
Will you come to my house to-night or tomorrow
morning ? and I'll give you my cheque
to take to the bank."

For how much ? " said the man eagerly.

One hundred pounds ; the amount I
promised you."

Ay, but that was for taking the poor boy
across. No, master Vine, we've been talking
it over, the five on us, and there's the boat,
and one nio-ht's fishing one as mioiit have
been a good one or it oughtn't been nothing ;

SO we're going to ask you to pay us a pound
apiece."

'but "

"Good-day, Master Vine, busy now. I'll
come on in a day or two."

The man turned away abruptly, and, with
his brow heavily wrinkled, as he felt moved
by the man's generosity, Vine walked slowly
on, and overtook Louise and Madelaine.

Mrs. Van Heldre was waiting in the Ivdll as
the little party entered, and she hurried forward
with extended hands, and her lips parted
to speak, but no words would come. Lie
could only press their old friend's hand before
leading him up to where Van Heldre lay, his
face ghastly pale beneath his bandaged head.

As they entered he held out his hand to
Vine, who stood gazing at him without an
atteu:ipt to accept the friendly grip.

Louise, my child," said Van Heldre, turning
to her ; and she stepped quickly across to
take the extended hand. " Now leave us," he
said quietly ; and, in obedience to his wish,
the rest quitted the room.

You did not take my hand, George Vine,"
said Van Heldre, as soon as they were alone.

"How can I, after the wrong you have
received at mine ? "

'"' Hah ! that is why I sent for yon," said
Van Heh:lre. '' I have lain here insensi^ le and
ignorant of what was done, else those proceedings
would never have been taken. You have
much to forgive me. Vine,"

You have much to forgive me," said the
latter slowly.

'•'Then take mv hand, and let us forgive,
if there is any call for such a proceeding on
either side. Vine, old friend, how you must
have suffered, and I not there to say one
kindly word ! "

'•' Van Heldre," said Vine slowly, as, holding
his friend's hand, he slowly seated himself by
the bed's head, '' did you ever know what it
was to pray for death ? "

"Thank Heaven, no," replied Van Heldre
v;ith a slight shudder, for there was something
weird and strange about his old friend's
manner. '' Since I have regained my senses
I have prayed to live. There seems so much
to be done at times like this. But, Vine, old
friend, what can I say to you ? For pity's
sake don't look at me like that ! "

Look at you — like that ? " said Vine
slowly.

"Yes; your eyes seem so full of reproach.
I tell you, my dear old fellow, that I would

rather have died than that poor boy should
have been prosecuted for my sake."

I know everything," said Vine slowly.
I do not reproach you, John. I reproach
myself, and at times it seems more than I
can bear."

Louise," said Van Heldre softly.

*' Louise ? Ah, Louise ! " said Vine eagerly.
Without her I must have died."

The two old friends sat, hand clasped in
hand, in perfect silence for quite an hour
before there was a gentle tap at the door, and
Madelaine entered.

He is so weak yet, Mr. Vine," she said,
taking and separating their hands.

'' Madelaine— my child ! "

Mr. Vine may come again in the evening
for a little while," said Madelaine, smiling, as
she bent down and kissed her father's brow.

So stern and tyrannical," protested Van
Heldre.

Only to make you well, father," replied
Madelaine, smiling ; and she led their old
friend from the room.

He spoke as if he wanted my forgiveness,"
said Vine as he walked slowly back, noting as
they went the kindly deference paid to them
by those they met.

'•' Mr. Van Helclre, father ? " said Louise
gently.

Did I speak aloud, my child ? "

*' Yes, dear''

"Ah, these thoughts are too keen, and will
not be crushed down. Yes, child, yes. My
forgiveness, when it is I who should plead,
for all the horrors of the past, plead for his
forgiveness, Louise. He must have suffered
terribly to be brought down to this."

Louise looked wistfully in her father's
face, whose sunken cheeks and hollow eyes
told of mental suffering Greater far than that
which their friend had been called upon to
bear.

Will time heal all this agony and pain ? "
she asked herself: and it was with a sis^h
of relief that she reached the gate, and her
father went straight to his chair, to sit down
and stare straight before him at the sunlit
orate, as if seeing; in the burning: low scene
after scene of the past, till he started excitedly,
for there was a rino- at the crate-belL

Louise rose to lay her hand upon his
shoulder.

"Only some visitors, or a letter," she said
tenderly.

"I thought — I thought it mio-ht be news,"

VOL. 11. Q

he said wearily. "But no, no, no. There
can be no news now."

Mr. Leslie, miss," said Liza from the door.

To see me, Liza ? Say that "

"No, sir. Li the drawing-room, sir. 'Tis
to see Miss Louise, if she will give him an
interview, he said."

Louise looked wildly at her father.

"Must I see him, father '? " she said, with
her face now ghastly pale.

He did not answer for some moments, and
then slowly said the one word —

Yes."

She bent down and kissed him, and then
summoning up all her courage, slowly left the
room.

Duncan LESLIE SPEAKS OUT.

DuxcAX Leslie ^'as standing at a table
on which was a photograph of Louise, as she
entered the room silently ; and as, after a long
contemplation of the counterfeit, he drew a
long breath, and looked up to see the object
of his thoughts standing just inside the doorway,
too much agitated to give notice of her
presence, he coloured like a boy caught in
some act of which he was ashamed.

Miss Vine," he cried, advancing quickly
with extended hands.

Louise did not speak, but slowly raised one
hand for him to take, and suffered him to lead
her to a chair.

He remained standing; before her as she
looked up at him in a wild, frightened manner,
as if imploring him not to speak, and for a
few moments silence rein-ned.

o

You will forgive me," said Leslie, at last,

Q 2

if my visit is ill-timed, for I am a busy man,
ill-versed in the etiquette of such matters. I
was in a dilemma. I wished to try and show
my sympathy, and I was afraid to stay away
for fear of seeming neglectful."

*' Mr. Leslie need have been under no apprehension,"
said Louise slowly, and speaking as
if sorrow had exhausted itself, and there was
nothing left but resignation. " My father and
I have thought very deeply, and can never
be sufficiently grateful for all that has been
done."

*' You have suffered so," he said in a low
voice, " that I am going to beg of you not to
refer to the past. Of course, I know," he
added quickly, 'how easy it is to speak platitudes
— how hard to express what one feels at
a time like this."

"Mr. Leslie need not speak," said Louise
quietly. " He has shown his sympathy in a
way that no words can express."

Leslie gazed down at the piteous, sorrow-stricken
face before him ; and, as if wrenching
himself away, he walked to the window, and
stood orazinof out for a few moments while
Louise sat watching him, and fighting hard
with her emotions. She felt weakened by all
that had gone by, and as if, had he extended

his arms to her, she could have flown to him,
nestled in his breast, and begged him to help
her in this terrible strait. And yet all the
time her sorrow had strengthened, as well as
enfeebled, for she was able to master her
weakness, and follow out the course she had
planned.

Leslie returned to her side.

1 must speak," he said hoarsely. "It is
not cruelty at a time like this ; it is the desire
to help, to console, to be near you in distress.
Miss Vine — Louise — you — forgive me for saying
it — you must have known that for months
past I have loved you."

She looked up at him wistfully, and there
was a look of such pain and sorrow in her
eyes that he paused, and took the hand which
she resigned to him without shrinking, but
only to send a thrill of pain through him, for
the act was not that of one accepting the offer
of his love.

Yes," she said, after a painful pause, " I
did think that you must care for me."

"As, I do," he whispered earnestly, '' and
this is my excuse for speaking now No : don't
shrink from me. I only ask you to think of
me as one whose sole thought is of you, and
of how he may help and serve you."

You have helped us in every way," she
said sadly.

"I have tried so hard," he said huskily;
but everything has seemed little compared
to what I wished ; and now — it is all I ask :
you will let this formal barrier between us be
cast away, so that in everything I may be
your help and counsellor. Louise, it is no
time to talk of love," he cried earnestly, " and
my wooing is that of a rough, blunt man ; and
• — don't shrink from me — only tell me that
some day, when all this pain and suffering has
been softened by time, I may ask you to listen
to me ; and that now I may go away feeling
you believe in my love and sympathy. You
will tell me this ? "

She softly drew away her hand, giving him
a look so full of pity and sorrow that a feeling
akin to despair made his heart swell within
his breast. He had read of those who resigned
the world with all its hopes and pleasures from
a feeling that their time was short here, and
of death-bed farewells, and there was so much
of this in Louise's manner that he became
stricken and chilled.

It was only by a tremendous effort over self
that he was able to summon up the strength
to speak ; and, in place of the halting, hesitating

words of a few minutes before, he now
spoke out earnestly and well.

Forgive me," lie said ; and she trembled
as she shrank away to cover her eyes with her
hand. " It was folly on my part to speak to
you at such a time, but my love is stronger
than worldly forms, and though I grieve to
have given you pain, I cannot feel sorry that
I have spoken the simple, honest truth. You
are too sweet and true to deal lightly with a
man's frank, earnest love. Forgive me — say
good-bye. I am going away patiently — to
wait."

His manner chant-ed as he took her dish



engaged hand and kissed it tenderly and
respectfully.

I will not ask to see your father to-day.
He is, I know, suffering and ill ; but tell him
from me that he has only to send a messenger
to bring me here at once. I want to help him
in every way. Good-bye."

^' Stop ! ""

He was half-way to the door when that one
word arrested him, and with a sense of delicious
joy flooding his breast, he turned quickly to
listen to the words which would give him a
life's happiness. The flash of joy died out as
quickly as that of lightning, and in the same

way seemed to leave the hope that had arisen
scathed and dead. For there was no mistaking
that look, nor the tone of the voice which
spoke what seemed to him the death-warrant
of his love.

I could not speak," she said in a strange
low voice full of the pain she suffered. ^' I
tried to check you, but the words would not
come. What you ask is impossible ; I could
not promise. It would be cruel to you — unjust,
and it would raise hopes that could never
be fulfilled."

No, no. Don't say that," he cried appealingly.
" I have been premature. I should
have waited patiently."

It would have been the same. Mr. Leslie,
you should not have asked this. You
should not have exposed yourself to the pain
of a refusal, me to the agony of being forced
to speak."

I grant much of what you say," he pleaded.
forgive me."

'' Do not misunderstand me," she continued,
after a brave effort to master her emotion.
After what has passed it would be impossible.
I have but one duty now ; that of devoting
myself to my father."

You feel this," he pleaded ; " and you are

speaking sincerely ; but wait. Pray say no
more — now. There : let me say good-bye."

No," she said sternly ; " you shall not
leave me under a misapprehension. It has
been a struo-o-le that has been almost too o-reat ;
but I have won the strength to speak. No :
]Mr. Leslie, it is impossible."

'•' Xo, Mr. Leslie, it is impossible ! " The
words were like a thin, sharp echo of those
spoken by Louise, and they both started and
turned, to see that Aunt Marguerite had
entered the room, and had not only heard her
niece's refusal of Leslie, but gathered the full
import of the sentence.

She stood drawn up half-way between
them and the door, looking very handsome
and impressive in her deep mourning ; but
there was the suggestion of a faint sneering
smile upon her lip, and her eyes were half
closed, as with hands crossed over her breast,
she seemed to point over her shoulder with
her closed black fan.

Aunt ! " exclaimed Louise. " How
could "

Her strength was spent. She could say no
more. Her senses seemed to reel, and with
the impression upon her that if she stayed she
would swoon away, she hurried from the room,

leaving Leslie and the old Avoman face to
face.

He drew in a long breath, set this teeth,
and meeting Aunt Marguerite's angry look
firmly, lie bowed, and was about to quit the
house.

No, not yet," she said. '^ I am no eavesdropper,
Mr. Leslie ; but I felt bound to watch
over that poor motherless girl. It was right
that I should, for in spite of all my hints, I
may say my plain speaking regarding my
child's future, you have taken advantage of
her helplessness to press forward your suit."

Miss Vine "

Miss Marguerite Vine, if you please, Mr.
Leslie," said the lady with a ceremonious bow.

*' Miss Marguerite Vine then," cried Leslie
angrily, " I cannot discuss this matter with
you : I look to Mr. Vine."

My brother is weak and ill. I am the head
of this family, sir, and I have before now told
you my intentions respecting my niece."

*' Yes, madam, but you are not her father."

I am her father's sister, and if my memory
serves me rightly, I told you that Monsieur
De Ligny "

Who is Monsieur De Ligny ? " said Vine,
entering the room slowly.

Mr. Vine, I must appeal to you," cried
Leslie.

Xo. It would be indecorous. I have
told Mr. Leslie, who has been persecuting
Louise with his addresses, that it is an outrage
at such a time ; and that if our child
marries there is a gentleman of o-ood French
lineage to be studied. That his wishes
are built upon the sand, for Monsieur De
Ligny "

Monsieur De Ligny ? "

A friend of mine," said Aunt Marguerite
quickly.

"Mr. Vine," said Leslie hotly, ''I cannot
stay here to discuss this matter with Miss
Vine."

'•' Miss Marguerite Vine," said the old lady
with an ao-crravatinQ- smile.

Leslie gave an impatient stamp with one
foot, essayed to speak, and choking with disappointment
and anger, failed, and hurried
out of the house.

'• Such insufferable insolence ! And at a
time like this," cried Aunt Marguerite, contemptuously,
as her brother with a curiously
absorbed look upon his face began to pace
the room. " He has sent the poor girl
sobbing to her room''

'* Louise lias not engaged herself to this
man, Marguerite ? "

*' Engaged herself. Pah ! You should
have been here. Am I to sit still and witness
another wreck in our unhappy family through
your weakness and imbecility ? Mr. Leslie
has had his answer, however. He will not
come again."

She swept out of the room, leaving her
brother gazing vacantly before him.

She seems almost to have forgotten poor
Harry. I thought she would have taken
it more to heart. But Monsieur De Ligny
Monsieur De Ligny ? I cannot think.
Another time I shall remember all, I dare say.
Ah, my darling," he cried eagerly, as Louise
re-entered the room. •' You heard what Mr.
Leslie said ? "

Yes, father."

And refused him ? "

'^ Yes."

Her father took her hand, and stood trying
to collect his thoughts, which, as the result of
the agony from which he had suffered, seemed
now to be beyond control.

Yes," he said at last, " it was right. You
could not accept Mr. Leslie now. But your
aunt said ''

He looked at her vacantly with his hand to
his head.

*' AVhat did your aunt say about your being
enoraored ? "

Pray, pray, do not speak to me about it,
dear," said Louise, piteously. '' I cannot bear
it. Father, I wish to be with you — to help
and comfort, and to find help and comfort in
your arms."

Yes," he said, folding her to his breast ;
'■'and you are suffering and ill. It is not the
first time that our people have been called
upon to suffer, my child. But your aunt "

'• Pray, dearest, not now — not now," whispered
Louise, laying her brow against his
cheek.

I will say no more," he said tenderly.
Yes, to be my help and comfort in all this
trouble and distress. You are right, it is no
time for thinking of such thiuo^s as that."

O CD

AUNT MARGUERITE MAKES PLANS.

I COULD not — I could not. A wife should
accept her husband, proud of him, proud of
herself, the gift she gives him with her love ;
and I should have been his disgrace. Impossible
! How could I have ever looked him
bravely in the face ? I should have felt that
he must recall the past, and repented when it
was too late."

So mused Louise Vine as she sat trying to
work that same eveuino^ after a wearisome
meal, at which Aunt Marguerite had taken
her place to rouse them from their despondent
state. So she expressed it, and the result
had been painful in the extreme.

Aunt Marguerite's remedy was change, and
she proposed that they should all go for a
tour to the south of France.

Don't shake your head, George," she said.
You are not a common person. The lower
classes — the uneducated of course — so on

nursing their troubles, but it is a duty with
people of our position to suffer and be strong.
So put the trouble behind us, and show a
brave face to the world. You hear this,
Louise ? "

Yes, aunt," said Louise, sadly.

Then pray listen to it as if you took some
interest in what I said, and meant to profit
by it, child."

Louise murmured something suggestive of
a promise to profit by her aunt's wisdom, and
the old lady turned to her brother.

"Yes, George, I have planned it all out.
We will go to the south of France, to the
sea-side if you wish, and while Louise and I
try and find a little relaxation, you can dabble
and net strange things out of the water-pools.
Girl : be careful."

This to poor Liza, whose ears seemed to be
red-hot, and her cheeks alternately flushed and
pale, as she brought in and took out the dinner,
waiting at other times being dispensed Avitli
fortunately. For Liza's wits were wool-gathering,
according to Aunt Marguerite's theory,
and in her agitation respecting the manner in
which she had been surprised when yielding
to her mother's importunities, she was constantly
watching the faces of her master and

Louise, and calculating the chances for and
against ignominious dismissal. One minute
she told herself they knew all. The next
minute Ler heart gave a thump of satisfaction,
for Louise's sad eyes had looked so kindly in
hers that Liza told herself her young mistress
either did not know, or was soino^ to forgive her.
Directly after Liza dropped the cover of a
vegetable dish in her agitation right on Aunt
Marguerite's black silk crape-trimmed dress,
for her master had told her to bring him bread,
and in a tone of voice which thrilled through
her as he looked her in the face with, according
to her idea, his eyes seeming to say, " This
is some of the bread you tried to steal."

Liza escaped from the room as soon as
possible, and was relieving her pent-up feelings
at the back door when she beard her
name whispered.

Who's there ? what is it ? " she said.

It's only me, Liza, my dear. Has she

told "

Oh, mother ! You shouldn't," sobbed
Liza. " You won't be happy till you've got
me put in prison."

"Nonsense, my dear, they won't do that.
Never you fear. Now look here. What
become of that parcel you made up ? "

I don't know ; I've been half wild ever
since, and I don't know how it's going to end."

"' Then I'll tell you," cried the old fish-woman.
" You've got to get me that parcel,
or else to make me up another."

I won't ; there ! " cried Liza angrily.

How dare you say won't to your mother,
miss ! " said the old woman angrily. " Now
look here ; I'm going a bit farther on, and
then I'm coming back, and I shall expect to
find the napkin done up all ready. If it isn't,
you'll see."

Liza stood with her mouth open, listening
to her mother's retiring footsteps ; and then
with a fresh burst of tears waiting to be
wiped away, she ran in to answer the bell,
and clear away, shivering the while, as she
saw that Aunt Marguerite's eyes were fixed
upon her, watching every movement, and
seeming; to threaten to reveal what had been
discovered earlier in the day.

Aunt Marguerite said nothing, however,
then, for her thoughts were taken up with
her project of living away for a time. She
had been talking away pretty rapidly, first
to one and then to the other, but rarely
eliciting a reply ; but at last she turned
sharply upon her brother.

VOL. II. R

How soon shall we be going, George ? "

'' Going ? Where ? " he replied dreamily.

On the Continent for our change."

We shall not go on the Continent, Marguerite,"
he said gravely. " I shall not think
of leaving here."

Aunt Marguerite rose from the table, and
gazed at her brother, as if not sure that she
bad beard aright. Then she turned to her
niece, to look at her with questioning eyes,
but to gain no information there, for Louise
bent down over the work she had taken from
a stand.

Did you understand what your father
said ? " she asked sharply.

"Yes, aunt."

"And pray what did he say ? "

That be would not go on the Continent."

"What?"

That he would not leave home with this
terrible weight upon his mind."
.i'^Aunt Marguerite sat bolt upright in ber
chair for a few moments without speaking,
and the look she gave her brother was of the
most withering nature.

"Am I to understand," she said at last,
"that you prefer to stay here and visit and
nurse your Dutch friend '? "

Her brother looked at her, but there was
no trace of angler in his g-lance.

Aunt Marguerite lowered her eyes, and
then turned them in a supercilious way upon
Louise.

May I count upon your companionship,"
she said, " if I decide to go through Auvergne
and stay there for a few days, on my way to
Haeres ? "

"If you go, aunt?" said Louise wonderingly.


There is a certain estate in the neighbours



hood of Mont door," she continued ; '^ I wish
to see in what condition it is kept. These
things seem to devolve now on me, who am
forced to take the lead as representative of our
neglected family."

'' For Heaven's sake, Marguerite ! " cried
Vine impetuously. " No — no, no," he muttered,
checking himself hastily. " Better not
better not."

"I beg your pardon, brother," she said,
raising: her o'lass.

Nothing — nothing," he replied.

Well, Louise, child, I am waiting," she
continued, turning her eyes in a half-pitying,
condescending way upon her niece. " Yell ?
]\Iay I count upon you ? "

R 2

"Aunt, dear '

It will do you good. You look too pale.
This place crushes you down, and narrows
your intellect, my child. A little French
society would work a vast change in you."

Aunt, dear," said Louise, rising and crossing
to her to lay her hands upon the old lady's
shoulder, "don't talk about such things now.
Let me come up to your room, and read to
you a little while."

Aunt Marguerite smiled.

My dear Louise, why do you talk tome
like this ? Do you take me for a
child ? "

George Vine heaved a deep sigh, and turned
in his chair.

Do you think I have lived all these years
in the world and do not know what is best for
such a girl as you ? "

But indeed, aunt, I am not ill. I do not
require a change."

Ah, poor young obstinacy ! I must take
you well in hand, child, and see if I cannot
teach you to comport yourself more in accordance
with your position in life. I shall have
time now, especially during our little journey.
When would it be convenient for you to be
ready 1 "

'•' Aunt clear ! It is impossible ; we could
not oho."

'impossible! Then I must speak. You
^Yill be ready in three days from now. I feel
that I require change, and we will go''

'•' Margaret ! " cried Vine, who during the
past few minutes had been writhing in his
seat, •'•' how can you be so absurd ! ''

'' Poor George ! " she said, with a sigh, as
she rose from her chair. *'I wish I could
persuade him to go. Mind, Louise, my child,
in three days from now. We shall 2:0 straight
to Paris, perhaps for a month. You need not
trouble about dress. A few necessaries. All
that you will require we can get in Paris.
Joie in before you go to bed ; I may have a
few more words to say."

She sailed slowly across the room, waving
her fan gently, as if it were a wing which
helped her progress, as she preserved her
graceful carriage. Then the door closed behind
her, and Louise half ran to her father's
side.

'• Shall I go up with her ? " she whispered
anxiously.

Her father shook his head.

'' But did you not notice how strange she
seemed ? "

No more strange, my dear, than she has
often been before, after something has agitated
her greatly. In her way she was very fond of
poor Harry."

Yes, father, I know ; but I never saw her
so agitated as this."

She will calm down, as she has calmed
down before."

*' But this idea of going abroad ? "

'' She will forget it by tomorrow. I vas
wrong to speak as I did. It only sets her
thinking more seriously. Poor Margaret !
We must be very patient and forbearing with
her. Her life was turned out of its regular
course by a terrible disappointment. I try
always to remember this when she is more
eccentric — more trying than usual."

Louise shrank a little more round to the
back of her father's chair, as he drew her
hand over his shoulder, and she laid her cheek
upon his head as, with fixed eyes, she gazed
straight before her into futurity, and a spasm
of pain shot through her at her father's words,
a terrible disappointment," " eccentric." Had
Aunt Marguerite ever suffered as she suffered
now ? and did such mental agony result in
changing the whole course of a girl's young
life?

The tears stood in her eyes and dimmed
them ; but in spite of the blurring of her
vision, she seemed to see herself gradually
changing and growing old and eccentric too.
For was not she also wasting; with a terrible
disappointment — a blow that must be as
agonizing as any Aunt Marguerite could have
felt?

The outlook seemed so blank and terrible
that a strange feeling: of excitement came over
her, waking dream succeeding waking: dream,
each more painful than the last ; but she was
brought back to the present by her father's
voice.

Why, my darling," he said, " your hand
is quite cold, and you tremble. Come, come,
come, you ought to know Aunt Margaret by
now. There, it is time I started for Van
Heldre's. I faithfully promised to go back
this evening. Perhaps Luke will be there."

Yes, father," she said, making an effort to
be calm, "it is time you went down. Give my
dear love to Madelaine."

Eh ? Give your love ? why, you are coming
too."

No, no," she said hastily ; '' 1 — I am not
well this evening."

No, you are not well," he said tenderly.

'' Your hands are icy, and — yes, I expected so,
your forehead burns. Why, my darling, you
must not be ill."

"Oh, no, dear. I am not going to be ill, I
shall be quite well tomorrow."

"Then come with me. The change will do
you good."

No ; not to-night, father. I would rather
stay."

But Madelaine is in sad trouble too, my
child, and she will be greatly disappointed if
you do not come."

Tell her I felt too unwell, dear," said
Louise imploringly, for her father's persistence
seemed to trouble her more and more ;
and he looked at her wonderingly, she seemed
so agitated.

But I don't like to leave you like this, my
child."

Yes, yes ; please go, dear. I shall be so
much better alone. There, it is growing late.
You will not stop very long."

No ; an hour or two. I must be guided
by circumstances. If that man is there — I
cannot help it — I shall stay a very short
time."

That man, father ? "

Yes," said Vine, with a shudder. " Cramp-ton.

He makes me shiver whenever we
meet."

His face grew agonized as lie spoke ; and
he rose hastily and kissed Louise.

You will not alter your mind and come ? "
he said tenderly.

No, no, father ; pray do not press me. I
cannot go to-nio:ht."

"Strange ! " said George Vine thoughtfully.
Strange that she should want to stay."

He had crossed the little rock garden, and
closed the gate to stand looking back at the
old granite house, dwelling sadly upon his
children, and mino^lino^ thoughts of the determined
refusal of Louise to come, with
projects which he had had in petty for the
benefit of his son.

He shuddered and turned to go along the
level platform cut in the great slope before
beginning the rapid descent.

A STARTLING Visitation.

Fixe night, master, but rashly dark," said
a gruff voice, as Vine was nearly at the bottom
of the slope.

^' Ah, Perrow ! Yes, very dark," said Vine
quietly. " Not out with your boat to-night ? "

"No, Master Vine, not to-night. Sea
crimes. Why, if we cast a net to-night every
mash would look as if it was a-fire. Best at
home night like this. Going down town ? "

"Yes, Perrow."

Ah, you'll be going to see Master Van
Heldre. You don't know, sir, how glad my
mates are as he's better. Good-night, sir.
.You'll ketch up to Master Leslie if you look
sharp. He come up as far as here and went
back."

Thank you. Good-night," said Vine, and
he walked on, but slackened his pace, for he
felt that he could not meet Leslie then. The
poor fellow would be suffering from his rebuff,

and Vine shrank from listening to any
appeal.

But be was fated to meet Leslie all the
same, for at a turn of the steep path he
encountered the young mine-owner coming
towards him, and he appeared startled on
finding who it was.

Going out, Mr. Vine ? " he stammered.
I was coming up to the house, but — er —
never mind ; I can call some other time."

''■' I would turn back with you, only I promised
to go down to Mr. Van Heldre's tonight."


''Ah, yes, to Van Heldre's," said Leslie
confusedly. " I'll walk with you if you will
not mind."

I shall be glad of your company," said
Vine quietly : and they continued down to
the town. Leslie very thoughtful, and Vine
disinclined to converse.

Xo, I am not o-oino; in, Mr. Vine. Will
you let me come and say a few words to you
tomorrow ? "

"Yes," replied Vine gently.

He had meant to speak firmly and decisively,
but a feeling of pity and sympathy for
the vouno' mau, whose heart he seemed to
read, chant-ed his tone. It had been in his

heart, too, to say, " It will be better if you
do not come," but he found it impossible, and
they parted.

Leslie hesitated as soon as he was alone.
What should he do ? Go home ? Home was
a horrible desert to him now ; and in his
present frame of mince, the best thing he could
do was to go right off for a long walk. By
fatiguing the body he would make the brain
ask for rest, instead of keeping up that whirl
of anxious thought.

He felt that he must act. That was the
only way to find oblivion and repose from
the incessant thought which troubled him.
He started off with the intention of wearying
his muscles, so as to lie down that night and
win the sleep to which he was often now a
stranger.

His first intent was to go right up by the
cliff-path, by Uncle Luke's, and over the hill
by his own place, but if he went that way
there was the possibility of finding Uncle
Luke leaning over the wall, gazing out at
the starlit sea, and probably he would stop
and question him.

That night his one thought was of being
alone, and he took the opposite direction,
went down to the ferry, hunted out the man

from the inn hard hy, and had himself rowed
across the harbour, so as to walk along the
cliff eastwards, and then strike in north and
round by the head of the estuary, where he
could recross by the old stone bridge, and
reach home — a walk of a dozen miles.

At the end of a couple of miles along the
rugged pathway, where in places the greatest
care was needed to avoid ^'oiuo- over some
precipitous %)ot to the shore below, Leslie
stopped short to listen to the hollow moaning
sound of the waves, and he seated himself
close to the cliff edge, in a dark nook, which
formed one of the sheltered look-outs used by
the coast-guard in bad weather.

The sea frittered as if the surface were of
polished jet, strewn with diamonds, and, impressed
by the similarity of the scene to that
of the night on which the search had been
carried on after Harrv Vine, Leslie's thoughts
went back to the various scenes which repeated
themselves before his mental gaze from
the becrinnincr to that terrible finale when the
remains lay stark and disfigured in the inn
shed, and the saturated cards proclaimed who
the dead man was.

'' Poor girl ! " he said half aloud, 'rand withall
that trouble fresh upon her, and the feeling

that she and her family are disgraced for ever,
I go to her to press forward my selfish, egotistical
love. God forgive me ! What weak
creatures we men are ! "

He sat thinking, taking off his hat for the
cool, moist sea air to fan his feverish temples,
when the solemn silence of the starry night
seemed to bring to him rest and repose such
as he had not enjoyed since the hour when
Aunt Marguerite planted that sharp, poisoned
barb in his breast.

It is not that," he said to himself, with a
sigh full of satisfaction. " She never felt the
full force of love yet for any man, but if ever
her gentle young nature turned towards anyone,
it was towards me. And, knowing this,
I, in my impatience and want of consideration,
contrived my own downfall. No, not my downfall
; there is hope yet, and a few words rightly
spoken will remove the past."

The feverish sensation was passing away
swiftly. The calm serenity of the night
beneath the glorious dome of stars was
bringing with it restfulness, and hope rose
strongly, as, far away in the east, he saw a
glittering point of light rise above the sea
slowly higher and higher, a veritable star of
hope to him.

^' What's that ? " he said to himself, as above
the boom of the waves which struck below
and then filled some hollow and fell back with
an angry hiss, he fancied he heard a sob.

There was no mistake ; a woman was talking
in a low, moaning way, and then there
came another sob.

He rose quickly.

Is anything the matter ? " he said sharply.

'^Ah! Why, how you frightened me ! Is
that you, Master Leslie ? "

Yes. Who is it ? Poll Perrow ? "

Yes, Master Leslie, it's me."

Why, what are you doing here ? " said
Leslie, as cynical old Uncle Luke's hints about
the smuggling flashed across his mind.

Nothing to do with smuggling," she said,
as if divining his thoughts.

Indeed, old lady ! Well, it looks very
suspicious."

No, it don't, sir. D'you think if I wanted
to carry any landed goods I should take 'em
along the coast-guard path ? "

A man would not," said Leslie, '' but I
should say it's just what a cunning old
woman's brain would suggest, as being the
surest way to throw the revenue men off the
scent."

Dessay you're right, Master Leslie, but
you may search me if you like. I've got
nothing to-night."

I'm not going to search you, old lady.
I'll leave that to the revenue men. But what's
the matter ? "

'' Matter, Master Leslie ? "

Yes ; I heard you sobbing. Are you in
trouble ? "

Of course I am, sir. Aren't I a lone
widow ? "

'' So you have been these fifteen years."

Fourteen and three-quarters, sir."

'' Ah, well, I was near enough. But what
is it, old lady ? Want a little money ? "

No, no, no, Master Leslie, sir ; and that's
very kind of you, sir ; and if I don't bring
you up half-a-dozen of the finest mackerel
that come in these next days, my name aren't
Perrow."

"Thank you. There, I don't want to be
inquisitive, but it seems strange for a womanlike
you to be crying away here on the cleft"
two miles from home on a dark night."

And it seems strange for a young gentleman
like you to be up here all alone and three
miles from home. You was watching me,
Master Leslie."

You'll take my word, Poll Perrow," said
Leslie quietly. " I did not know you were
here."

'' Yes ril believe you, Master Leslie, sir.
But you was watching some one else ? "

'* No, I came for a walk, my good woman,
that's all."

Then I won't stop you, sir. Good-night,
sir."

Good-night," said Leslie ; and feeling
more content, he took out his cigar-case, and
after selecting one by feeling, he went back
into the coast-guards' station and struck a
match.

He looked along the cliff path as the match
flashed, and caught sight faintly of the old
woman.

Watching me anyhow," he said to himself,
as he lit his cigar. " Now what can that old
girl be doing here ? She's fifty-five if she's a
day, but if she is not courting and had a
quarrel with her youthful lover, I'm what
that old lady says that Van Heldre is — a
Dutchman."

He turned back along the path feeling comparatively
light-hearted and restful. The long,
dark, weary walk to tire himself was forgotten,
and he went slowly back along the coast-guard

VOL. II. s

path, turning a little from time to time to gaze
over his left shoulder at the brilliant planet
which rose higher and higher over the glistening
sea.

"Hope!" he said half aloud. "What a
glorious word that is, and what a weary world
this would be if there were none ! Yes, I will
hope."

He walked slowly on, wondering whether
Poll Perrow was watching and following him.
Then he forgot all about her, for his thoughts
were fixed upon the granite house across the
estuary, and the sweet sad face of Louise half
in shadow, half lit by the soft glow of the
shaded lamp.

Mr. Vine will be back by now," he said.
I might call in and ask how Van Heldre is
to-night. It would be sociable, and I should
see her, and let my manner show my sorrow
for having grieved her and given her pain ;
and, is it possible to let her see that I am full
of patient, abiding hope, that some day she
will speak differently to the way in which she
spoke to-day ? Yes, a woman would read all
that, and I will be patient and guarded now."

It was astonishing how eager Duncan Leslie
felt now to see what news George Vine had
brought from Van Heldre's ; and with the

beautiful absurdity of young men in his position,
lie never allowed himself to think that when he
crossed the ferry he woukl be within a stone's
throw of the merchant's house, and that all he
need do was to knock and ask old Crampton
or Mrs. Van Heldre for the latest bulletin,
which would be gladly given.

It was so much easier to go on by the house,
make for the path which led up the steep
slope, and go right to the home on the shelf Df
the cliff, and ask there.

Meanwhile, Louise Vine had seated herself
bv the dining-room table with the lio;ht of the
shaded lamp sidling athwart her glossy hair,
and half throwing up her sweet pale face, just
as Leslie had pictured it far away upon the cliff.
Xow and then her needle glittered, but only
at rare intervals, for she vias deep in thought.

At times her eyes closed, and as she sat
there bending forward, it seemed as if she
slept : l;>ut her lips moved, and a piteous sigh
escaped her overladen breast.

The night seemed hot and oppressive, and
she rose after a time and unclasped the casement
window, beneath the old painted glass
coat-of-arms ; and, as she approached it, dimly
seen bv the light cast from behind her, she

S 2

shuddered, for it struck her there was a black
stain across the painting, and a shadowy dark
mark obliterated the proud words of the old
family motto.

As she threw back the casement she stood
leaning her head against the window, gazing
out into the starlit space, and listening to the
faint whisper of the coming tide.

While she listened it seemed to her that the
faint boom and rush of the water obliterated
every other sound as she tried in vain to
detect her father's step slowly ascending the
steep path.

Too soon — too soon," she said softly, and
she returned to her seat to try and continue
her work, but the attempt was vain. The
light fell upon her motionless hands holding
a piece of some black material, the thread was
invisible, and only at times a keen thin gleam
of light betrayed the whereabouts of the
needle. Her sad eyes were fixed on the dark
opening of the window through which she
could see a scarcely defined patch of starry sky,
while the soft night air gave her a feeling of
rest, such as had come to the man who had told
her that he loved.

'never more," she sighed at last ; " that is
all past. A foolish dream."

Making an effort over herself, she resumed
her work, drawing the needle through quickly
for a few minutes, and trying hard to dismiss
Duncan Leslie from her thoughts. iVs she
worked, she pictured her father seated by Van
Heldre's side ; and a feeling of thankfulness
came over her as she thought of the warm
friendship between her elders, and of how firm
and staunch Van Heldre seemed to be. Then
she thought of the home troubles with hero



Aunt Marguerite, and her father's patient forbearance
under circumstances which were a
heavy trial to his patience.

Poor Aunt Marguerite ! " she sighed, asher
hands dropped with her work, and she sat
gazing across the table straight out at the
starry heavens. " How she loved poor Harry
in her way ; and yet how soon he seems to
have passed out of her mind ! "

She sighed as the past came back with her
brothers wilfulness and folly; but, throwing
these weaknesses into the shade, there were all
his frank, good qualities, his tenderness to
her before the troubles seemed to wrench them
apart ; the happy hours they had passed with
Madelaine as boy and girls together ; all happy
days — gone for ever, but which seemed to
stand out now as parts of Harry's life which

were to be remembered to the exclusion of all
that was terrible and black.

My brother ! " she breathed, as she gazed
straight out seaward, and a faint smile passed
her lips ; " he loved me, and I could always
win him over to my side."

The thought seemed frozen in her brain, her
half-closed eyes opened widely, the pupils
dilated, and her lips parted more and more,
as she sat there fixed to her seat, the chilly
drops gathering on her white brow, and a
thrill of horror coursing through her veins.

CD O

For as she looked she seemed to have conjured
up the countenance of her brother, to gaze in
there by the open casement — the face as she
had seen it last — when he escaped from her
bedroom, but not flushed and excited ; it was
now pale, the eyes hollow, and his hair clinging
unkempt about his brow.

Was she awake, or was this some evolution
of her imagination, or were those old stories
true that at certain times the forms of those
we loved did return to visit the scenes where
they had passed their lives ? This then was
such a vision of the form of the brother whom
she loved ; and she gazed wildly, with her
eyes starting, excited more than fearing, in
the strange exaltation which she felt.

Then she sank back in her chair with the
chill of dread now emphasized, as she gazed
fixedly at the ghastly face, for she saw the
lips part as if to speak, and she uttered a low,
gasping sound, for from the open window came
in a quick hoarse whisper,

Louie, why don't you speak ? Are you
alone ? "

END OF VOLUME II.

OF THE

UN Diversity

Of ILLINOIS

8^3>
F3S"9o
v.S

The person charging this material is responsible for
its return to the library from which it was withdrawn
on or before the Latest Date stamped below.

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books are reasons for disciplinary
action and may result in dismissal from the University.
To renew call Telephone Center, 333-8400

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS LIBRARY AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

L161— O-1096

OF HIGH DESCENT.

I IoW

GEORGE glanville Penn,

AUTHOR OF u THIS MAN'S Wife," ETC.

IX THREE VOLUME*.
VOL. III.

gjxntbxm :

WARD AND DOWNEY,
12, YORK STREET, Covent GARDEN.

1889.

[All Rights reserved.]

v.*

CONTENTS OF VOLUME III.

CHAP.

I. FOR LIBERTY AND LIFE

II. A PLACE OF REFUGE

III. THE HORROR IN THE ZORN

IV. THE FRIEND IN" ADVERSITY
V. BROTHER — LOVER .

VI. THE PLANT AUNT MARGUERITE GREW

VII. AFTER THE GREAT SORROWS

VIII. THE DISCOVERY

IX. BROKEN WITH THE FIGHT .

X. A STRANGE SUMMONS

XL HER DEFENDER

XII. AUNT MARGUERITE FINDS A FRIEND

XIII. HALF CONVERTED .

XIV. A HARD TEST

XV. AN OLD FRIEND — OR ENEMY?

XVI. THE NEEDLE IN A BOTTLE OF HAY
XVII. PRADELLE IS PRICKED

XVIII. THE DOG BITES

Page

























malcontents













CHAP.

xix. diogenes discovers

xx. uncle luke turns prophet

xxi. leslie makes an announcement

xxii. harry's message .

xxiii. uncle luke has a word .

xxiv. tried in the fire

PAGE








CHAPTER I.

FOR LIBERTY AND LIFE.

Naturalists and students of animal life
tell us that the hunted deer sheds tears in
its agony and fear, and that the hare is
ignorant of what is before it, for its eves are
strained back in its dread as it watches the
stride of the pursuing hounds.

The reverse of the latter was the case with
Harry Vine, who in his horror and shame
could only see forward right into the future.
For there before him was himself — handcuffed,
in gaol, before the magistrates, taking
his trial, sentenced, and then he, the scion of
a good family, inflated by the false hopes
placed before him by his aunt, dressed in

VOL. III. B

the broad-arrow convict's suit, drudging on
in his debased and weary life — the shame, the
disgrace of those who loved him, and whom,
in those brief moments of agony, he knew he
dearly loved.

Better death ! "

He muttered these words between his teeth,
as, in a mad fit of cowardice and despair, he
turned suddenly at the end of the rock pier
and plunged headlong into the eddying tide.

Whatever the will may wish at such a time,
instinct always seems to make a frantic effort
to combat this mad will, and the struggle for
life begins.

It was so here, for the sudden plunge into
the cold dark water produced its instantaneous
effect. The nerves and muscles grew tense,
and after being borne for some distance straight
out to sea, Harry Vine rose to the surface, and
in obedience to the natural instinct of a good
swimmer, struck out and turned to regain the
pier.

But as he turned he hesitated. There were
the police waiting for him when he landed,
and his people were on the shore waiting to
see him disgraced — for he was, of course, in
utter ignorance of the efforts that had been
made to enable him to escape. And even ashe

hesitated he knew that such a proceeding-was
impossible. Had he been tenfold the
swimmer he could not have reached that
point, for the current, after coming from the
west and striking full against the rocks, was
bearing him seaward at a tremendous rate.
The voices that had been in a clamour of
excitement and the shouts and orders were
growing distant ; the lights that were flashing
over the water seemed minute by minute more
faint, and as, almost without effort, he floated
on he wondered at the feeling of calm, matter-of-fact
reasoning which the cold plunge seemed
to have aroused.

Always a clever swimmer from the days
when the sturdy fisherman Perrow had tied
a stout hake-line about his waist, and bid
him leap into the sea from the lugger's side,
and taught him to feel confidence in the
water, he had never felt so much at home as
now. He was clothed, but the strong current
bore him along, and the slightest movement of
his limbs kept him with his nostrils clear of
the golden-spangled water.

What should he do ?

He looked seaward, and there, right off the
harbour mouth, was a lantern. He could not
make out the shape of the boat ; but his

B 2

guilty conscience suggested that it was one
placed there by the police for his capture ;
shoreward he could see other moving lights,
and he knew as well as if he were there that
they were boat lanterns, and that people were
putting off in pursuit.

It did not seem to occur to him that they
would be essaying to save him ; he had committed
an offence against the law, and in his
then frame of mind he could only admit one
thought in connection with them into his
brain, and that was that any boat's crew
which pushed off would have but one idea —
to make every effort to capture him, an 1 so he
swam, letting the swift tide carry him where
it would.

Shouts arose, sounding faint and strange as
they came from where the lanterns gleamed
faintly ; and there was an answering hail from
the light off the harbour — the light toward
which he was being borne.

They'll see me," he thought, and he made
a few vigorous strokes to turn aside, but gave
up directly, as he felt it possible that he
might be carried by in the darkness.

To his horror, he found that he would betaken
so close, that he could easily swim to
and touch the boat. For one moment fear

swayed him of another kind, and he felt that
he must give up.

Better be taken aboard to prison than
drown," he muttered ; and he swam toward
the boat.

Better be drowned than taken off to
prison," he said the next moment ; and then,
Why should I drown ? "

His confidence returned as he was borne
nearer and nearer to the lugger riding hereto
its buoy ; and he could hear the voices of
the men on board talking eagerly as they
gazed s h ore ward.

Keep a bright look-out," said a rough
voice ; and Harry ceased swimming after
turning over on his back, and let the current
bear him swiftly and silently along.

The spangled water seemed hardly disturbed
by his presence as he neared the light, then
saw it eclipsed by the boat's hull, just as he
felt that he must be seen. Then he was
past the boat, and in a few seconds the light
reappeared from the other side, shining full
upon his white face, but the men were looking
in the other direction and he was not
seen.

Once more the horror of drowning came
upon him, and he turned on his face to swim

back. It was only a momentary sensation,
and as he swam and felt his power in the
water he closed the lips firmly that had parted
to hail, and swam on.

The shouts came and were answered from
time to time, he could hear the regular rattle
and beat of an oar, and then the blue light
flashed out brilliantly, and as he raised himself
at each long steady stroke he could see
quite a crowd of figures had gathered on the
pier, and he was startled to see how far he
was from the shore. And all this time thereupon
his left was the bright red harbour-light,
glaring at him like an eye, which seemed to
be watching him and waiting to see him
drown. At times it looked to be so lifelike
that it appeared to blink at him, and as he
swam on he ceased to gaze at the dull yellow
light of the moving lanterns, and kept on
watching that redder eye-like lamp.

The blue light blazed for a time like a
brilliant star and then died out ; the shouts
of the men in the boat floated to him, and
the lights of the town grew farther away ashe
still swam steadily on with a sea of stars
above him, and another concave of stars apparently
below ; on his right the open sea, and
on his left, where the dull land was, arose a

jagged black line against the starry sky showing
the surface of the cliff.

"What shall I do?" he said to himself, ashe
looked back at lisdit after light moving

o o o

slowly on the water, but all far behind him,
for he was, as he well knew, in one of the
swiftest currents running due east of the
quay, and for a distance from that point due
south. It was a hard question to answer. He
might swim on for an hour — he felt as if he
could swim for two — and what then ?

He could not tell, but all the time the tide
was bearing him beyond the reach of pursuit
so fast that the hails grew more faint, and every
minute now the roar of the surf grew plainer.

Should he swim ashore — land — and escape ?

Where to ?

"Hah!"

He uttered a faint cry, for just then his
hand touched something cold and slimy, and
for the moment he felt paralyzed, as he recalled
how often a shark had come in with
the tide. For the object he had touched
seemed to glide by him, and what felt like a
slimy moving fin swept over his hand. He
struck out now with all his strength, blindly,
and moved solely by one impulse — that of
escaping from a death so hideous — a chill of

horror ran through him, and for the moment
he felt half paralyzed. The sensation was
agonizing, and the strokes he gave were quick,
spasmodic, and of the kind given by*a drowning
man ; but as he swam on and the moments
passed without his being seized, the waning
courage began to return strongly once more,
he recovered his nerve, and ceasing his frantic
efforts swam slowly on.

The efforts he had made had exhausted him,
however, and he turned over on his back to
rest and lie paddling gently, gazing straight up
at the glorious stars which burned so brilliantly
overhead. The change was restful, and conscious
that the current swept him still swiftly
along, he turned once more and began to swim.

That fit of excitement, probably from touching
some old weed-grown piece of timber,
must have lasted longer than he thought, for
he had toiled on heedless of which direction he
took, and this direction had been shoreward,
the current had done the rest ; and now that
he swam it was into one of the back tidal
eddies, and the regular dull roar and rush and
the darkness ahead taught him that he was
only a few hundred yards from the cliffs. He
rose up as he swam and looked sharply from
side to side, to see a faint lambent light

where the phosphorescent waves broke, and
before him the black jagged line which seemed
to terminate the golden-spangled heavens,
where the stars dipped down behind the shore.

He hesitated for a few moments — not for
long. It was madness to strike out again
into the swift current, when in a short time
xmld land or, if not, reach one of the detached
masses of rock, and rest there till the
tide went down. But what to do then I
Those who searched for him would be certain
to hunt along the shore, and to land and
strike inland was, in his drenched condition,
to invite capture.

He shuddered at the thought, and awaking
now to the fact that he was rapidly growing
exhausted, he swam on into the black band
that seemed to stretch beneath the cliffs.

He was weaker than he realized, and.
familiar as he was with this part of the coast,
it now in the darkness assumed a weird,
horrifying aspect ; the sounds grew, in his
strangely excited state, appalling, and there
were moments when he felt as if the end had
come. Fur as he swam on it was every now
and then into some moving mass of anchored

CI

wrack, whose slimy fronds wrapped round and
clung to his limbs, hampering his movements

and calling forth a desperate struggle before
he could get clear.

Then, as he reached the broken water, in
spite of the lambent glare he struck himself
severely again and again upon some piece of
jagged rock, once so heavily that he uttered a
moan of pain, and Heated helplessly and half
unnerved listening to the hissing rush and
hollow gasping of the waves as they plunged
in and out among the cavities and hollows of
the rocks. A hundred yards out the sea was
perfectly smooth, but here in-shore, as the tidal
swell encountered the cliffs, the tide raced in
and out through the chaos of fallen blocks like
some shoal of mad creatures checked in their
career and frightened in their frantic efforts to
escape.

Then every now and then came a low
hollow moan like a faint and distant explosion,
followed by the rattling of stones, and
a strange whispering, more than enough to
appal the stoutest swimmer cast there in the
darkness of the night.

Three times over was the fugitive thrown
across a mass of slimy rock, to which, losing
heart now, he frantically clung, but only to
be swept off again, confused, blinded by the
spray and with the water thundering in his

ears. Once Lis feet touched bottom, and he
essayed to stand for a moment to try and
wade across, but he only stepped directly into
a deep chasm, plunging over his head, to rise
beating the waves wildly, half strangled ; and
in the strange numbed feeling of confusion

© o

which came over him, his efforts grew more
feeble, his strokes more aimless, and as once
more he went under and rose with the cling



ins weeds about his neck the fight seemed to

© O

be over, and he threw back his head gasping
for breath.

Rush ! A wave curled right over, swept
him from among the clammy weed, and the

next moment his head was driven against a

©

mass of rock.

What followed seemed to take place in a
feverish dream. He had some recollection
afterward of trying to clamber up the rough
limpet-bossed rock, and of sinking down with
the water plunging about his eyes and leaping
at intervals right up his chest, but some time
elapsed before he thoroughly realized his
position, and dazed and half helpless climbed
higher up to lie where the rock was dry,
listening with a shudder to the strange sounds
of the hurrying tide, and gazing up from time
to time at the watching stars.

A PLACE OF REFUGE.

If ever miserable wretch prayed for the light
of returning day that wretch was Harry Vine.
It seemed hours of agony, during which the
water hissed and surged all round him as if
in search of the victim who had escaped,
before the faint lio;ht in the east bejmn to give
promise of the morn.

Two or three times over he had noted a
lantern far out toward the distant harbour, but
to all appearances the search had ceased for
the night, and he was too cold and mentally
stunned to heed that now .

He had some idea of where he must be —
some three miles from the little harbour, but
he could not be sure, and the curve outward
of the land hid the distant light.

Once or twice he must have slept and
dreamed in a fevered way, for he started into
wakefulness with a cry of horror, to sit chilled

and helpless for the rest of the night, trying
to think out his future, hut in a confused,
dreamy way that left him where he had
started at the first.

As day broke he knew exactly where he
was, recollecting the rock as one to which he
had before now rowed with one of the fishermen,
the deep chasms at its base being a
favourite resort of conger. Hard by were
the taro corns to which they had made the
excursion that day, and searched for specimens
for his father's hobby — that day when he had
overbalanced himself and fallen in.

Those corns ! either of those caves would
form a hiding-place.

That is certain to be seen," he said
bitterly ; and with the feeling upon him that
even then some glass might be directed toward
the isolated rock on which he sat, a hundred
yards from the cliff, in a part where the shore
was never bared even at the lowest tides, he
began to lower himself into the deep water to
swim ashore and climb up the face of the cliff
in search of some hiding-place.

He was bitterly cold and longing for the
sunshine, so that he might gain a little
warmth for his chilled limbs ; and under the
circumstances it seemed in his half-dried

condition painful in the extreme to plunge
into the water again.

Half in he held on by the side of the
barnacle-covered rock, and scanned the face
of the cliff, nearly perpendicular facing there,
and seeming to offer poor foothold unless he
were daring in the extreme.

He was too weak and weary to attempt it,
and he turned his eyes to the right with no
better success.

Better give up," he said bitterly. " I
couldn't do it now."

As he gazed to his left the rock, however,
seemed more practicable. There w T as a chasm
there, up which it would certainly be possible
to climb, and, feeling more hopeful, he was
about to make the attempt, when a flush of
excitement ran through him. There in full
view, not fifty yards to the left, was the zigzag
water-way up which they had sent the boat
that day toward the narrow hole at the foot of
the cliff, the little entrance to the cavern into
which he had swum, and there sat for his own
amusement, startling the occupants of the
boat.

"The very place !" he thought. "No one
would find me there."

His heart began to throb, and a warm glow

seemed to run through his chilled limbs as,
carefully picking his time, he swam amongst
the waving seaweed to the narrow channel,
and then in and out, as he had gone ou that
blight sunny day which seemed to him now
as if it was far away in the past, when he
was a careless, thoughtless boy, before he had
become a wretched, hunted man.

The sun, little by little, rose above the sea
and flooded the face of the rocks ; the blackwater
became amethystine and golden, and
the mysterious gasping and moaning sounds
of the current were once more the playful
splashing of the waves as they leaped up the
empurpled rocks and fell in glittering cascades.
It was morning, glorious morning once again,
and the black, frowning cliffs of the terrible
night were now hope-inspiring in their hanging
wreaths of clustering ivy and golden
stars.

The swell bore him on, and he rode easily
to the mouth of the cave, a low rift now that
was nearly hidden when a wave ran up, and
when it retired not more than a yard high.
And, as he recalled the day when he swam in,
his hopes rose higher, for even if careful search
were made it was not likely that any one
would venture into such a place as that.

Then, as he held on by a piece of rock at the
mouth, he hesitated, for strange whispering
sounds and solemn gurgling came out as he
peered in. Where he clung, with his shoulders
above the water, all was now bright sunshine ;
beneath that rough arch all was weird and
dark, and it was not until he had felt how
possible it was that he might be seen that he
gave a frightened glance in the direction of
the harbour, and then, drawing a long breath,
waited for the coming of a wave, lowering
himself down at the right moment, and
allowing the water to bear him in.

He must have glided in, riding, as it were,
on that wave some twenty or thirty yards,
when, after a hissing, splashing, and hollow
echoing noise, as a heavy breath of pent-up
air, like the expiration of some creature struck
upon his face, he felt that he was being drawn
back.

The rugged sides of the place, after his
hands had glided over the clinging sea anemones
for a few moments, gave him a firm
hold, and as the wave passed out he found
bottom beneath his feet, and waded on in the
darkness with a faint shadow thrown by the
light at the mouth before him.

The place opened out right and left, and

as his eves grew more used to the gloom he
found himself in a rugged chamber rising
many feet above his head and continuing ina
narrow rift right on into the darkness.
Where he stood the water was about three
feet deep, and his feet rested on soft sand,
while, as he continually groped along sidewise,
he found the water shallowed. Then
another wave rushed in, darkening the place
slightly, and it seemed to pass him, and to goon
and on into the depths of the narrow rift
onward, and return. The tide he knew was
falling, so that some hours must elapse before
there was any danger of his being shut in
and deprived of air, while there was the possibility
of the cavern being secure in that
respect, and remaining always sufficiently
open for him to breathe. But there were
other dangers. There might be enough air,
but too much water, and at the next tide he
might be shut in and drowned. Then there
was starvation staring him in the face. But
on the other side there was a balance to
counteract all this ; he had found sanctuary,
and as long as he liked to make this place his
refuge he felt that he would be safe.

The waves came and went, always pursuing
their way along a rift-like channel inward,

VOL. III. c

while he cautiously groped his way along to
the left into the darkness, with the water
shallowing, and his hands as he went on, bent
nearly double, splashing in the water or feeling
the rough, rocky wall, which at times he could
not reach, on account of the masses projecting
at the foot.

The place was evidently fairly spacious, and
minute by minute, as more of the outer sunshine
penetrated, and his eyes grew accustomed
to the place, it became filled with a dim
greenish light, just sufficient to show T him the
dripping roof about ten feet above him, while
all below was black.

All at once, as he w T acted in with the water
now to his knees, his hands touched something
wet, cold, and yielding, and he started back
in horror, with the splashing noise he made
echoing strangely from the roof.

For the moment his imagination conjured
up the form of some hideous sea-monster,
which must make the zorn its home, but once
more sense and experience of the coast told
him that the creature he had touched must
be a seal, and that the animal, probably more
frightened than be was himself, had escaped
now out into the open water.

A couple of yards farther and he was on

dry sand, while, on feeling about, he found
that the side of the cave had been reached,
and that he could climb up over piled-up
rocks heaped with sand till he could touch
the roof.

For some few minutes, as he stood therewith
the water streaming from him, he could
not make out whether the heaped-up sand
which filled in the rifts onions the rocks was
thoroughly dry or only lately left by the tide,
but at last, feeling convinced that no water,
save such as might have dripped from the roof,
could have touched it, he carefully explored it
with his hands till he found a suitable place,
where he could sit down and rest.

He was so near the roof that the sandy
spot he selected seemed to be more suitable
for reclining than sitting, and, lying down,
chilled to the very marrow, he tried to think,
but could only get his thoughts to dwell upon
the rushing in of the waves as he watched
them coming along what seemed to be a broad
beam of light, and go on and on past where
he lay right into a dimly-seen rift to his left.

He was cold, hungry, and wretched. A feeling
of utter hopelessness and despair seemed
to rob him of the power to act and think.
His wet clothes hung to him, and it was not

c 2

till he had lain there some time that the
thought occurred to him to try and wring out
some of the water. This he at last did, and
then lay down to think once more.

He had not so much difficulty in making
out the shape of the place now, but it presented
few differences from the many rifts
in the rocks which he had examined when
boating. There w T ere dimly-seen shell-fish on
the sides, scarce specimens such as would atone
time have gladdened his father's heart,
just visible by the opening, which grew T brighter
and brighter as the tide went down, and the
entrance broadened till a new dread assailed
him, and that was that the place would be so
easy of access that he would be sought for and
found.

The bitter, chilled sensation seemed to abate
somewhat now, but he was tortured by hunger
and thirst. Every louder lap or splash of thew
T aves made him start and try to make out
the shadow of a coming boat, but these frights
passed off, leaving him trying still to think of
the future and what he should do.

How beautiful the water seemed ! That
glistening band where the light fell, and was
cut on either side by a band of inky blackness,
while the light was thrown from the water incurious

reflections on the glistening rock, which
seemed to be covered with a frosted metal of
a dazzling golden green.

He could think of that, and of the amethystine
water which ran on through what was
evidently a deep channel, into the far depths
of the cave, along which, in imagination, he
followed it on and on right into the very
bowels of the earth, a long, strange journey
of curve and zio-zao* with the water ever
rushing and gurgling on, and the noise
growing fainter and fainter till it was just a
whisper, then the merest breath, and then
utter darkness and utter silence.

The excitement and exhaustion of the past
night were playing their part now, and Harry
Vine lay utterly unconscious of everything
around.

THE HOftROR IN THE Zones

! What is it ? Aunt Marguerite ill ? "

Harry Vine started up, listening.

Did any one call 1 "

There was no reply, and he sat there listening,
still with the impression strong upon him
that he had heard some one knock at his
bedroom door and call him by name.

Then a curious sense of confusion came over
him as he tried to make out what it meant.
His head was hot, but his hands were cold,
and he felt that he ousdit to know something
which constantly eluded his mental grasp.

Land — rock — water running, gurgling, and
splashing, and utter darkness. Where was he ?
What did it all mean ?

For a long time the past was a blank.
Then, as he sat with his hands pressed to his
head, staring wildly before him, it all came
back like a flash — his trouble, the escape, the
long swim, and his taking refuge in this cave.

Then he must have slept all day, and it was
now night, or else the tide had risen above
the mouth of the entrance, and the water was
slowly rising to strangle him, and, Heaven have
mercy upon him, there was no escape !

He began to creep down slowly toward the
water, determined to swim with the next
i e tiring wave, and try to reach the shore.
Even if he drowned in the effort it would be
better than sitting there in that horrible cave,
waiting for a certain death.

But he found that comparatively he had to
descend some distance before he could feel the
water, and as he touched it with his extended
hand, he fancied that he could detect a gleam
of light.

For a long time he could not convince himself
that it was not fancy, but at last he was
sure that there was a faint reflection as from
a star whose light struck obliquely in. Then
the mouth of the cave was open still, and
he could swim out if he wished. But did.
he wish ?

He felt about, and in a short time could
distinguish by the sense of touch how high
the tide had risen, and that it had not been
within a couple of feet of where he had lain,
where the sand was quite warm still. He tco

was dry, and therefore it must be night, and
he had been plunged in a state of stupor for
many hours. Suddenly a thought struck
him.

He had a match-box in his pocket, a little
tight-fitting, silver match-box, which held a
few cigar-lights. That match-box was inside
his cigar-case, and both fitted so tightly that
the water might have been kept out. A light,
if only for a few moments, would convince
him of his position, and then there were his
cigars. He was ravenously hungry now, and
if he smoked that would perhaps dull the
sensation.

He drew out his cigar-case and opened it,
and took out a cigar. This was dry comparatively
; and as with trembling fingers he
felt the little silver case, he wondered whether
it closed tightly enough to keep out the water.

He took out a match. It felt dry, and
the box was quite warm, but when he gave
the match one rub on the sand-faced end, he
obtained nothing but a faint line of li<dit.
He tried again and again, but in vain ; and
hesitated about testing another match till
some hours had passed.

He could not resist the temptation, and
taking another of the frail waxen tapers, he

struck it sharply, and to his great delight it
emitted a sharp, crackling sound. Another
stroke and it flashed out, and there beamed
steadily a tiny, clear flame which lit up the
place, revealing that it was just such a zorn
as his touch and imagination had painted,
while the water was about a couple of feet
below where he knelt on the sand, and —

The young man uttered a wild cry of horror,
the nearly extinct match fell from his fingers,
and burned out sputtering on the wet sands at
his feet.

His first effort was to crawl right away as
high up as possible, and there, shuddering and
confused, he sat, or rather crouched, gazing
down beyond where the match had fallen.

At times he could see a tiny, wandering
point of light in the water, which gradually
faded out, and after this seemed to reappear
farther away, but otherwise all was black and
horrible once more. More than once he was
tempted to walk down into the water and
swim out, but in his half-delirious, fevered
state he shrank from doing this, and waited
there in the darkness, suffering agonies till,
after what seemed to be an interminable time,
there was a faint, pearly light in the place,
which, gradually screw and screw till it became

opalescent, then glowing, and he knew that
the sun had risen over the sea.

Half frantic with horror, a sudden resolve
came upon him. There was so strong a light
now in the cavern that he could dimly see the
object which had caused him so much dread,
an object which he had touched when be first
waded in, and imagined to be a seal.

Trembling with excitement, he crept down
to the water's edge, waded in to his knees,
and in haste, forcing himself now to act, be
drew from where it lay entangled among the
rocks the body of a drowned man, the remains
of one of the brave fellows who had been lost
at the wreck of Van Heldre's vessel. The
body was but slightly wedged in, just as it
had been floated in by a higher tide than
usual, and left on the far side of some pieces
of rock when the water fell, but had not since
risen high enough to float it out.

The horrifying object yielded easily enough
as he drew it away along the surface, and he
was about to wade and swim with it to the
mouth, when he stopped short, for a sudden
thought occurred to him.

It was a horrible thought, but in his excitement
he did not think of that, for in the dim
light he could see enough to show him that it

was the body of a young man of about his
own physique, still clothed and wearing a
rough pea-jacket.

Disguise — a means of evading justice — the
opportunity for commencing anew and existing
till his crime had been forgotten, and then
some day making himself known to those who
thought him dead.

They think me dead now," he muttered,
excitedly. " They must. They shall."

Without pausing for further thought, and
without feeling now the loathsome nature of
the task, he quickly stripped the pea-jacket
and rough vest from the dead form, and
trembling with excitement now in place of
fear, tore off his own upper garments, pausing
for a few moments to take out pocket-book and
case and cigars, but only to empty out the
latter, thrust the book and case back, and at
the end of a few minutes he was standing in
shirt and trousers, the rough jacket and vest
lying on the sands, and the form of the
drowned sailor tightly buttoned in the dry
garments just put on.

Harry stood trembling for a few minutes,
shrinking from achieving his task. Then with
the full knowledge that the body if borne out
of the cave would be swept here and there by

the current, perhaps for days, and finally cast
ashore not many miles away, he softly waded
into the water, drew the waif of the sea along
after him, right away to the mouth of the
cave, where he cautiously peered out, and
made well sure that no fishermen were in sight
before swimming with his ghastly burden along
the zigzag channel, out beyond the rocks,
where, after a final thrust, he saw the current
bear it slowly away before he returned shuddering
into the cave, and then landed on the dry
sand to crawl up and crouch there.

They think me dead," he said in a husky
whisper ; "let them find that, and be sure."

He was silent for a time, and then as the
thoughts of the past flooded his soul, he burst
into a wild fit of sobbing.

Home — sister — Madelaine," he moaned,
gone, gone for ever ! Better that I had
died ; better that I was dead ! "

But the horror was no longer there, and ina
short time he roused up from his prostrate
condition half wild and faint with hunger.

After a few minutes' search he found a
couple of his cigars lying where he had thrown
them on the sand, and lighting one, he tried
to dull the agony of famine by smoking hard.

The effect was little, and he rose from where

he was seated and began to feel about the
shelves of the rock for limpets, a few of which
he scraped from their conical shells and ate
with disgust: but they did something towards
alleviating his hunger, and seemed to drive
away the strange, half-delirious feeling which
came over him from time to time, making
him look wildly round and wonder whether
this was all some dreadful dream.

About mid-day he heard voices and the
beating of oars, when, wading towards the
opening, he stood listening, and was not long
in convincing himself that the party was in
search of him, while a word or two that he
heard spoken made him think that the party
must have picked up the body of the drowned
sailor.

The voices and the sound of the oars died
away, and in the midst of the deep silence he
crept nearer and peered out to be aware that
a couple of boats were passing about a quarter
of a mile out, while from their hailing someone,
it seemed that a third boat, invisible to
the fugitive, was coming along nearer in.

He crept back into the semi darkness and
listened with his ear close to the water till,
after a time, as he began to conclude that
this last boat must have gone back, and he

wondered again and again whether the drifting
body had been found, he heard voices once
more, every word coming now with marvellous
clearness.

No, sir, only a bit of a crevice."

Does it go far in \ "

Far in, Mr. Leslie, sir ? Oh, no. Should
waste time by going up there. You can see
right up to the mouth, and there's nothing."

But the current sets in there."

Yes, sir, and comes out round that big
rock yonder. Deal more likely place for him
to ha' been washed up farther on."

Leslie, and in search of me," said Harry
to himself as the boat passed by. " Yes ;
they do believe I'm dead."

That day dragged wearily on with the occupant
of the cave, tossed by indecision from
side to side till the shadow began to deepen,
when, unable to bear his sufferings longer, he
crept out of the opening with the full intent
of climbing the cliff, and throwing himself on
the mercy of one of the cottagers, if he could
find no other means of getting food.

The tide was low, and he was standing
hesitating as to which way to go, when he
turned cold with horror, for all at once he
became aware of the fact that not fifty yards

away there was a figure stooping clown with
a hand resting on the rock, peering into an
opening as if in search of him.

His first instinct was to dart back into the
cavern, but in the dread that the slightest
movement or sound would attract attention,
he remained fixed to the spot, while the figure
waded knee-deep to another place, and seemed
to be searching there, for an arm was plunged
deeply into the water, a rope raised, and after
a good deal of hauling, a dripping basket was
drawn out and a door opened at the side, and
flapping its tail loudly, a good-sized lobster
was brought out and deposited in the basket
the figure bore upon her back.

Mother Perrow ! " exclaimed Harry beneath
his breath, and then an excited mental debate
took place. Dare he trust her, or would she
betray him ?

Fear was mastering famine, when Poll
Perrow, after remaining her lobster pot, was
about to throw it back into deep water, but
dropped it with a splash, and stood staring
hard at the shivering man.

Master Any ! " she exclaimed, and,
basket on back, she came through water andover
rock toward him with wonderful agility
for a woman of her age. " Why, my dear

lad," she cried, in a voice full of sympathy,
is it you ? "

"Yes, Poll," he said tremulously, "it is I."

"And here have I been trying to find you
among the rocks while I looked at my crab
pots. For I said to myself, ' If Master Harry's
washed up anywhere along the coast, there's
nobody more like to find him than me.' And
you're not dead after all."

No, Poll Perrow," he said agitatedly, " I'm
not dead."

Come on back home," she cried. " I am
glad I found you. Master Vine and Miss
Louise, oh, they will be glad ! "

Hush, woman ! " he gasped, " not a word.
No one must know you have seen me."

Lor', and I forgot all about that," she said
in a whisper. " More I mustn't. There's the
police and Master Leslie and everybody been
out in boats trying to find you washed up,
you know."

"And now you've found me, and will go
and get the reward," he said bitterly.

I don't know nothing about no reward,"
said the woman, staring hard at him. "Why,
where's your jacket and weskut ? Aren't you
cold ! "

Cold ? I'm starving," he cried.

You look it. Here, what shall I do ? Go
and get yon something to eat ? "

"Yes — no!" he cried bitterly. you'll go
and tell the police."

"' Well, I am ashamed o' you, Master Harry,
that I am."

But it was all a misfortune, Poll Perrow,
an accident. I am not guilty. I'm not
indeed."

I wasn't talking about that," said the
woman surlily, " but 'bout you saying I
should tell the police. It's likely, ain't it ? "

Then you will not tell — you will not
betray me ? "

Yah ! are it likely, Master Harry ? Did
I tell the fleece 'bout Mark Tackle when he
was in trouble over the sniuowlino; and hid
away ! "

But I am innocent ; I am indeed."

All right, my lad, all right, Master Harry.
If you says so, that's 'enough for me. Here,
I'll go and tell Master Vine I've found you"'

No, no ; he thinks I'm dead."
••'Well, everybody does; and I said it was
a pity such a nice, handsome young lad should
be drowned like that. I told my Liza so."

'•' My father must not know."

Miss Louie, then ? "

VOL. III. D

No, no. You must keep it a secret from
everybody, unless you want to see me put in
prison."

Now is that likely, my lad ? Here, I've

got it. I'll go and tell Master Luke Vine."

Worst of all. No ; not a word to a soul."

All right, Master Harry ; I can keep my

mouth shut when I try. But what are you

going to do ? "

I don't know yet. I'm hiding yonder."
What ! in the little seal zorn ? "
"Yes. Don't betray me, woman, pray! "
"Betray you, Master Harry? You know
I won't."

"You will not tell a soul?"
You tell me not to tell nobody, and I
won't say a word even to my Liza. But
they're seeking for you everywhere — dead.
Oh ! my dear lad, shake hands. I am glad
you wasn't drowned."

The warm grasp of the rough woman's
coarse hand and the genuine sympathy in
her eyes were too mach for Harry Vine.
Weak from mental trouble — more weak from
hunger — manhood, self - respect, everything
passed from him as he sank upon one of the
hard pieces of weedy rock ; and as the woman
bent over him and laid her hands upon his

shoulder, he flung his arms about her, let his
head sink upon her breast, and cried like a
child.

Why, my poor, poor boy ! " she said
tenderly, with her hard wooden stay busk
creaking in front, and her maund basket creaking
behind, " don't — don't cry like that, or —
or — or — there, I knew I should," she sobbed,
as her tears came fast, and her voice sounded
broken and hoarse. "There, what an old
fool I am ! Now, look here ; you want to
hide for a bit, just as if it w T as brandy, or a
bit o' lace."

"Yes, Poll; yes."

'• Then wait till it's dark, and then come onto
my cottage."

No, no," he groaned ; " I dare not."

And you that cold and hungry ? "

I've tasted nothing but the limpets since
that night."

Limpets ! " she cried, with a tone of contempt
in her voice, "why, they ain't even
good for bait. And there are no mussels
here. Look here, my dear lad, I've got a
lobster. No, no ; it's raw. Look here ; you
go back to where you hide, and I'll go and
get you something to eat, and be back as soon
as I can."

D 2

You will ? " he said pitifully.

Course I will."

And you'll keep my secret ? "

"Now don't you say that again, my lad,
because it aggravates me. There, you go
back and wait, and if I don't come again this
side of ten o'clock, Poll Perrow's dead ! "

She bent down, kissed his cold forehead,
and hurried back among the rocks, splashing
and climbing, till he saw her begin to ascend
the narrow rift in the cliff; and in a few
minutes the square basket, which looked like
some strange crustacean of monstrous size
creeping out of the sea and up the rocks, disappeared
in the gathering gloom ; and Harry
Vine, half delirious from hunger, crept slowly
back into the case, half wondering whether it
was not all a dream.

THE FRIEND IX ADVERSITY.

It was a dream from which he was aroused
three hours later — a wild dream of a banquet
served in barbaric splendour, but whose
viands seemed to be snatched from his grasp
each time he tried to satisfy the pangs which
seemed to gnaw him within. He had fallen
into a deep sleep, in which he had remained
conscious of his hunger, though in perfect
ignorance of what had taken place around.

His first thought was of capture, for his
head was clear now, and he saw a rough
hand as he gazed up wildly at a dim horn
lantern.

The dread was but momentary, for a rough
voice full of sympathy said —

11 There, that's right. Sit up, my dear, and
keep the blankets round you. They're only
wet at one corner. I did that bringing them
in. There, drink that ! "

He snatched at the bottle held to him, and
drank with avidity till it was drawn away.

"That'll put some life into you, my dear;
it's milk, and brandy too. Now eat that.
It's only bread and hake, but it was all I
could manage now. To-morrow I'll bring
you something better, or I'll know the reason
why."

Grilled fish still warm, and pleasant homemade
bread. It was a feast to the starving
man ; and he sat there with a couple of
blankets sending warmth into his chilled
limbs, while the old fisherman sat and talked
after she had placed the lantern upon the
sand.

Let them go on thinking so," said Harry
at last. " Better that I should be dead to
every one I know."

"Now, Master Harry, don't you talk like
that. You don't know what may happen
next. You're talking in the dark now. When
you wake up in the sunshine tomorrow
morning you'll think quite different to this."

No," he said, " I must go right away ; but
I shall stay in hiding here for a few days first.
Will you bring me a little food from time to
time, unknown to any one ? "

Why of course I will, dear lad. But why

don't you put on your pea-jacket and weskit ?
They is dry now."

Harry shuddered as he glanced at the rough
garments the woman was turning over.

Throw them here on the dry sand," he
said hastily. " I don't want them now."

"There you are, then, dear lad," said the
old woman, spreading out the drowned man's
clothes ; " perhaps they are a bit damp yet.
And now I must go. There's what's left in
the bottle, and there's a fried mackerel and
the rest of the loaf. That'll keep you from
starving, and tomorrow night I'll see if I
can't bring you something better."

"And you'll be true to me ? "

Don't you be afraid of that," said the old
woman quietly, as Harry clasped her arm.

Why, you are quite wet," he said.

Wet ! Well, if you'll tell me how to get
in there with the tide pretty high and not
be wet I should like to know it. Why, I
had hard work to keep the basket out of the
water, and one corner did go in."

And you'll have to wade out," said Harry
thoughtfully.

Well, what of that ? How many times
have I done the same to get alongside of a
lugger after fish ? Drop o' salt water won't

hurt me, Master Harry ; I'm too well tanned
for that."

I seem to cause trouble and pain to all I
know," he said mournfully.

What's a drop o' water ? " said the old
woman with a laugh. " Here, you keep that
lantern up in the corner, so as nobody sees
the light. There's another candle there, and
a box o' matches ; and now I'm going. Goodbye,
dear lad."

Good-bye," he said, with a shudder ; " I
trust you, mind."

Trust me ! Why, of course you do.
Good-night."

One moment," said Harry. " What is
the time?"

Lor, how particular people are about the
time when they've got naught to do. Getting
on for twelve, I should say. There, goodnight.
Don't you come and get wet too."

She stepped boldly into the water, and
walled on with the depth increasing till it
was up to her shoulders, and then Harry Vine
watched her till she disappeared, and the
yellow light of the lantern shone on the softly
heaving surface, glittering with bubbles, which
broke and flashed. Then, by degrees, the
rushing sound made by the water died out,

and the lit-up place seemed more terrible than
the darkness of the nights before.

The time glided on ; now it was day, now
it was night ; but day or night, that time
seemed to Harry Vine one long and terrible
punishment. He heard the voices of searchers
in boats and along the cliffs overhead, and
sat trembling with dread lest he should be
discovered ; and with but one thought pressing
ever — that as soon as Poll Perrow could
tell him that the heat of the search was over,
he must escape to France, not in search of the
family estates, but to live in hiding, an exile,
till he could purge his crime.

After a while he got over the terrible
repugnance, and put on the rough pea-jacket
and vest which had lain upon a dry piece of
the rock, for the place was chilly, and in his
inert state he was glad of the warmth ; while
as the clays slowly crept by, his sole change
was the coming of the old flshwoman with
her basket punctually, almost to the moment,
night bv nio'ht.

He asked her no questions as to where she
obtained the provender she brought for him,
but took everything mechanically, and in a
listless fashion, never even wondering how
she could find him in delicacies as well as in

freshly-cooked fish and home-made bread.
Wine and brandy he had, too, as much as he
wished ; and when there was none for him,
it was Poll Perrow who bemoaned the absence,
not he.

Poor boy ! " she said to herself, " he wants
it all badly enough, and he shall have what he
wants somehow, and if my Liza don't be a bit
more lib'ral, I'll go and help myself. It won't
be stealing."

Several times over she had so much difficulty
in obtaining supplies that she determined
to try Madelaine and the Yan Heldres ;
but her success was not great.

If he'd only let me tell 'em," she said, " it
would be as easy as easy." But at the first
hint of taking any one into their confidence,
Harry broke out so fiercely in opposition that
the old woman said no more.

No," he said ; " I'm dead — they believe
I'm dead. Let them think so still. Some day
I may go to them and tell them the truth, but
now let them think I'm dead."

Which they do now," said the old woman.

What do you mean ? "

She hesitated to tell him what had taken
place, but he pressed her fiercely, and at last
he sat trembling with horror and with great

drops bedewing his brow as she told him of
the finding of the body and what had followed.

It was only what he had planned and looked
for, but the fruition seemed too horrible to
bear, and at last a piteous groan escaped from
his breast.

That night, after the old woman had gone,
the food she had obtained from his old home
remained untouched, and he lay there upon
the sand listening to the sighing wind and bemoaning
and working of the waves, picturing
the whole scene vividly — the finding of the
body, the inquest, and the funeral.

"Yes," he groaned again and again, "I am
dead. I pray God that I may escape now,
forgotten and alone, to begin a new life."

He pressed his clasped hands to his rugged
brow, and thought over his wasted opportunities,
the rejected happiness of his past
youth, and there were moments when he was
ready to curse the weak old woman who had
encourage-ed him in the chimerical notions of

o

wealth and title. But all that passed off.

I ought to have known better' he said
bitterly. " Poor, weak old piece of vanity !
Poor Louise ! My sweet, true sister ! Father ! "
he groaned, " my indulgent, patient father !
Poor old honest, manly Van Helclre ! Madelaine

! my lost love ! " And then, rising to
his knees for the first time since his taking
refuge in the cave, he bowed himself down in
body and spirit in a genuine heartfelt prayer
of repentance, and for the forgiveness of his
sin.

One long, long communing in the gloom of
that solemn place with his God. The hours
glided on, and he still prayed, not in mere
words, but in thought, in deep agony of spirit,
for help and guidance in the future, and that
he might live, and years hence return to those
who had loved him and loved his memory,
another man.

The soft, pearly light of the dawn was
stealing in through the narrow opening, and
the faint querulous cry of a gull fell upon his
ear, and seemed to arouse him to the knowledge
that it was once more day — a clay he
spent in thinking out what he should do.

Time glided slowly on, and a hundred plans
had been conceived and rejected. Poll Perrow
came and went, never once complaining of the
difficulties she experienced in supplying him
and herself, and daily did her best to supply
him with everything but money. That was
beyond her.

And that was the real necessary now. He

roust have money to enable him to reach
London, and then France. So long a time
had elapsed, and there had been so terrible a
finale to the episode, that he knew he might
endeavour to escape unchallenged ; and at
last, after a long hesitancy and shrinking, and
after feeling that there was only one to whom
he could go and confide in, and who would
furnish him with help, he finally made up his
mind.

It was a long process, a constant fight of
many hours of a spirit weakened by suffering,
till it was swayed by every coward dread
which arose. He tried to start a dozen times,
but the heavier beat of a wave, the fall of a
stone from the cliff, the splash made by a fish,
was sufficient to send him shivering back :
but at last he strung himself up to the effort,
feeling that if he delayed longer he would
grow worse, and that night poor old Poll
Perrow reached the hiding-place after endless
difficulties, to sit down broken-hearted and
ready to sob wildly, as she felt that she must
have been watched, and that in spite of all her
care and secrecy her " poor boy " had been
taken away.

BROTHER LOVER.

Trembling, her eyes dilated with horror,
Louise Vine stood watching the dimly seen
pleading face for some moments before her
lips could form words, and her reason tell her
that it was rank folly and superstition to stand
trembling there.

Harry ! " she whispered, " alone ? yes".

Hah ! " he ejaculated, and thrusting in his
hands he climbed into the room.

Louise gazed wildly at the rough-looking
figure in sea-stained old pea-jacket and damaged
cap, hair unkempt, and a hollow lookin
eye and cheek that, joined with the ghastly
colourless skin, was quite enough to foster the
idea that this was one risen from the grave.

Don't be scared," he said harshly, " I'm
not dead after all."

Harry ! my darling brother."

That was all in words, but with a low,
moaning cry Louise had thrown her soft arms

about his neck and covered his damp cold face
with her kisses, while the tears streamed down
her cheeks.

Then there is some one left to My

darling sis ! " He began in a half-cynical
way, but the genuine embrace was contagious,
and clasping her to his breast, he had to fight
hard to keep back his own tears and sobs ashe
returned her kisses.

Then the fugitive's dread of the law and of
discovery reasserted itself, and pushing her
back, he said quickly — ■

Where is father % "

At Mr. Van Heldre's. Let me "

Hush ! answer my questions. "Where is
Aunt Marguerite ? "

Gone to bed, dear."

"And the servants?"

In the kitchen. They will not come
without I ring. But, Harry — brother — we
thought you dead — we thought you dead."

Hush ! Louie, for Heaven's sake ! You'll
ruin me," he whispered, as she burst into a fit
of uncontrollable sobbing, so violent at times
that he grew alarmed.

We thought you dead — we thought you
dead."

It was all she could say as she clung to

him, and looked wildly from door to window
and back.

Louie ! " he whispered at last passionately,
I must escape. Be quiet, or you will be
heard."

By a tremendous effort she mastered her
emotion, and tightening her grasp upon him,
she set her teeth hard, compressed her lips, and
stood with contracted brow gazing in his eyes.

Now ! " he said, " can you listen ? "

She nodded her head, and her wild eyes
seemed so questioning, that he said quickly —

I can't tell you much. You know I can
swim well."

She nodded silently.

Well, I rose after my dive and let the
current carry me away till I swam ashore
three miles away, and I've been in hiding in
one of the corns."

Oh, my brother ! " she answered.

66 Waiting till it was safe to come out."

But, Harry ! " she paused ; " we — my
father — we all believed you dead. How could
you be so "

She stopped.

"Cruel?" he said firmly. "Wouldn't it
have been more cruel to be dragged off to
prison and disgrace you more ? "

But-hush

! I tell you I have been in hiding.
They think me dead ? "

Yes ; they found you "

Hush, I tell you. I have no time to
explain. Let them go on thinking me dead."

But, Harry! " she cried; " my poor brokenhearted
father — Madelaine."

Hold your tongue ! " he said in a broken
voice, "unless you want to drive me mad."

He paused, for his face was working ; but
at last with a stamp he controlled his emotion.

Look here," he said hoarsely. " I had no
one to come to but you. Will you help
me ? "

Harry ! " she whispered reproachfully, as
she clung to him more firmly.

Hah ! that's better," he said. "Now don't
talk, only listen. But are you sure that we
shall not be overheard ? "

Quite, dear ; we are alone."

Then listen. I have thought all this out.
I've been a blackguard ; I did knock old Van
Heldre down."

Louise moaned.

But once more I tell you I'm not a thief.
I did not rob him. and I did not go to rob
him. I swear it."

VOL. III. E

I believe you, Harry," she whispered.

Well, I'll tell you what I'm going to do."

She nodded again, unable to speak, but
clung to him spasmodically, for everything
seemed to swim round before her eyes.

I am penniless. There, that proves to
you I did not rob poor old Van. I want
money — enough to escape over to France —
to get to London first. Then I shall change
my name. Don't be alarmed," he said tremblingly,
as he felt Louise start. " I shall give
up the name of Vine, but I'm not going to
call myself Des Vignes, or any of that cursed
folly."

Harry ! "

All right, dear. It made me mad to
think of it all. I've come to my senses now,
and I'm going over the Channel to make a
fresh start and to try and prove myself a man.
Some day when I've done this father shall
know that I am alive, and perhaps then he
may take me by the hand and forgive me."

Harry, let me send for him — let me tell
him now."

No," said the young man sternly.

He loves you ! He will forgive you, and
bless God for restoring you once more, as I do,
my darling. Oh, Harry, Harry ! My brother ! "

Hush ! " he whispered, with his voice
trembling as he held her to him and stroked
her face. "Hush, sis, hush!"

Then I may send for him ? "

No, no, no ! " he cried fiercely. " I am
little better than a convict. He must not, he
shall not know I am alive."

But, Harry, dearest "

Silence ! " he whispered angrily ; " I came
to you, my sister, for help. No, no, dear,
I'm not cross ; but you talk like a woman.
The dear old dad would forgive me, God
bless him ! I know he would, just as you
have, and fall on my neck and kiss me as —

as — as Ah ! Lou, Lou, Lou, my girl,"

he cried, fio-htino; against his emotion, "the
law will not be like your love. You must
help me to escape, at all events for a time."

And may I tell him where you are gone
my father and Maddy ?"

u Hush ! " he cried, in so wild and strange
a voice that she shrank from him. " Do you
want to unman me when I have planned my
future, and then see me handcuffed and taken
to gaol I Xo : Harry Vine is dead. Some
day another man will come and ask the
forgiveness he needs."

Harry I "

E 2

But not this shivering, cowardly cur — a
man, a true blameless man, whom it will take
years to make. Now, then, once more, will
you help me, and keep my secret ? "

Louise was silent for a few moments.

Well, never mind, you must keep my
secret, for after I am gone if you said you
had seen me, people would tell you that you
were mad."

I will help you, Harry, and keep your
secret, dear — even," she added to herself, " if
it breaks my heart."

That's right. We've wasted too much
time in talking as it is, and "

But, Harry — Madelaine — she loves you."

He wrested himself from her violently, and
stood with his hands pressed to his head. A
few moments before he had been firm and
determined, but the agonized thought of Madelaine
and of giving her up for ever had ended
the fictitious strength which had enabled him
to go so far.

It was the result of his long agony shut
up in that cave ; and though he struggled hard
he could do no more, but completely unnerved,
trembling violently, and glancing wildly from
time to time at the door and window, he
sank at his sister's feet and clutched her knees.

"Harry, Harry!" she whispered — she, the
stronger now — " for Heaven's sake don't give
way like that."

It's all over now. I'm dead beat ; I can
do no more."

Then let me go to father ; let me fetch
him from Van Heldre's."

Yes," he moaned ; "and while you are gone
I'll go down to the end of the point and jump
in. This time I shall be too weak to swim."

Harry, don't talk like that ! " she cried,
embracing him, as she saw with horror the
pitiable, trembling state in which he was.

I can't help it," he whispered as he clung
to her uow like a frightened child, and looked
wildly at the door. " You don't know what
I've suffered, buried alive in that cave, and
expecting the sea to come in and drown me.
It has been one long horror."

But, Harry, dear, you are safe now."

Safe ? " he groaned ; " yes, to be taken by
the first policeman I meet, and locked up in
gaol."

But, Harry ! " she cried, his agitation
growing contagious, " I have promised. I
will help you now. I'll keep it a secret, if
yon think it best, dear. Harry, for Heaven's
sake be a man."

It's all over now," he groaned, " so better
end it all. I wish I was dead. I wish I was
dead."

But, Harry, clear," she whispered, trembling
now as much as he, " tell me what to do."

I can't now," he said ; " I'm too weak and
broken. All this has been so maddening that
I'm like some poor wretch half killed by drink.
It's too late now."

No, no, Harry, dear. It shall be our
secret then. Up, and be a man, my brave,
true brother, and you shall go and redeem
yourself. Yes, I'll suffer it all hopefully, for
the future shall make amends, dear. You
shall go across to France, and I will study
my father's comfort, and pray nightly for
you."

Too late," he moaned — " too late ! "

She looked at him wildly. The long strain
upon his nerves had been too great, and he
was white as a sheet, and shaking violently.

"Harry, dear, tell me what to do."

Let them take me," he said weakly. " It's
of no use."

Hush ! " she said, full now of a wild desire
to save him from disgrace and to aid him in
his efforts to redeem the past. " Let me think.
Yes : you want money."

Full of the recollection of his former appeal,
she took out her keys, opened a drawer, while
he half knelt, half crouched upon the carpet.
She had not much there, and, whispering to
him to wait, she left the room, locking him in,
and ran up to her chamber.

Harry started as he heard the snap made
by the lock ; but he subsided again in a
helpless state, and with the disease that had
been hanging about waiting to make its grand
attack gradually sapping its way.

In five minutes Louise was back.

I have not much money," she whispered
hastily ; ;i but here are my watch, two chains,
and all the jewels I have, dear. They are
worth a great deal."

Too late ! " he moaned as he gazed up at
her piteously, and for the moment he was
delirious, as a sudden flush of fever suffused
hi cheeks.

It is not too late," she said firmly. " Take
them. Now tell me what next to do."

What next ? " he said vacantly.

Yes. You must not stay here. My father
may return at any time. Brother — Harry —
shall I get you some clothes ? "

Xo — no," he said mournfully. " I shall
want no more clothes."

Harry ! " she cried, taking his face between
her hands, and drawing it round so that the
light fell upon it ; " are you ill? "

111 ? yes," he said feebly. " I've felt it
before — in the wet cave — fever, I suppose.
Lou, dear, is it very hard to die ? "

Oh, what shall I do ? " cried the agitated
girl, half frantic now. " Harry, you are not
very ill ? "

Only sometimes," he said slowly, as he
looked round. " I seem to lose my head a
bit, and then something seems to hold me
back."

Harry ! "

Yes," he cried, starting up ; " who called ?
You, Louie, money — give me some money."

I gave you all I have, dear, and my
jewels."

"Yes, I forgot," he said huskily, as in a
moment his whole manner had changed, and
with feverish energy he felt for the trinkets
she had given him.

You are ill, dear," she whispered tenderly.
Would it not be better to let me fetch our
father ? "

Fd sooner die," he cried, catching her
wrist. " No. He shall not know. There, I
can see clearly now. That horrible weakness

is always taking me now, and when it's on I
feel as if I should kill myself."

Harry ! "

Hush ! I know now. We must go before
he comes back."

We ? " she said aghast.

Yes, we. I'm not fit to be alone. You
must come with me, Lou, and help me. If I
go alone I shall go mad."

Oh, Harry ! my darling brother."

Yes," he cried in a hoarse whisper ; " I
know I shall. It's too horrible to live alone,
as I've been living. You must come with me
and save me — from myself — from everybody.
Why do you look at me like that ? "

He caught her by the shoulder, and glared
at her with a long, fierce stare.

I — I could not leave home, Harry," she
said faintly.

You must, you shall," he cried, " unless
you want me to really die."

But my father, dear ? "

Quick ! write ! " he said with the feverish
energy which frightened her ; and dragging
open the blotter on a side table, he pointed
to a chair.

He is mad — he is mad," she wailed to
herself, as, in obedience to a will far stronger

at that moment than her own, she sat down
and took up pen and paper.

Write," he said hoarsely.

Write, Harry ? "

Yes, quick ! "

In a horror of dread as she read her
brother's wild looks, and took in his feverish
semi-delirium, lest he should carry out a
threat which chilled her, she dipped her pen
and waited as, after an evident struggle with
a clouding intellect, Harry said quickly —

Dear father, I am forced by circumstances
to leave home. Do not grieve for me, I am
well and happy ; and no matter what you
hear, do not attempt to follow me. If you do
you will bring sorrow upon yourself, and ruin
upon one I love. Good-bye ; some day all
will be cleared up. Till then, your loving
daughter, Louise."

"Harry!" she sobbed, as she laid down
the pen, and gazed at the tear-blurred paper.
You cannot mean this. I dare not — I could
not go."

Very well," he said coldly. " I told you
it was too late. It does not matter now."

Oh," she panted, "you are not reasonable.
I have given you money. Go as you said and
hide somewhere. You are weak and ill now."

c; Yes," he said, in a voice which wrung her
heart. "I am weak and ill now."

'•'A little rest, dear, and the knowledge that
you have the means of escaping will make you
more calm."

He looked at her with his eyes so full of
wild anger that she half shrank from him, but
his face changed.

Poor little sis ! " he said tenderly ; " I
frighten you. Look at me. Am I fit to go
away alone ? I know — I feel that at any
moment I may break down and go off my
head amongst strangers."

She looked at him wildly, and as she stood
trembling there in a state of agitation which
overset her generally calm balance, she read
in his eyes that he was speaking the truth.

Put that note in an envelope and direct
it," he said in a slow, measured way, and mechanically,
and as if for the time being his will
was again stronger than hers, she obeyed him,
dropped the letter on the table, and then stood
gazing from it to her brother and back again.

It's hard upon you," he said, with his
hand to his head, as if he could think more
clearly then, " hard upon the poor old dad.
But it seems my only chance, Lou, my girl."

Father — brother — what should she do ?

T can feel it now," lie said drearily.
There, I'm cool now. It's lying in that cold,
wet cave, and the horrors I've gone through.
I've got something coming on — had touches
of it before — in the nights," he went on
slowly and heavily ; " perhaps it '11 kill me —
better if it does."

No, no, Harry. Stay and. let me nurse
you here. We could keep it a secret from
every one, and "

Hold your tongue ! " he said fiercely. " I
might live — if I went away — where I could
feel — I was safe. I can't face the old man
again. It would kill me. There, it's too much
to ask you — what's that ? "

Louise started to the door. Harry dashed
to the window, and his manner was so wild
and excited that she darted after him to draw
him away.

Nothing, dear, it is your fancy. There,
listen, there is no one coming."

He looked at her doubtingly, and listened
as she drew him from the window.

I thought I heard them coming," he said.
Some one must have seen me crawl up here.
Coming to take me — to gaol."

No, no, dear. You are ill, and fancy all
this. Now come and listen to me. It would

be bo wild, so cruel if I were to leave my homelike
this. Harry ! be reasonable, dear. Your
alarm is magnified because you are ill. Let
me — no. no, don't be angry with me — let me
speak to my father — take him into our confidence,
and he will help you."

No, M he said sternly.

Let me make him happy by the knowledge
that you are alive."

•'And come upon him like a curse," said
Harry, as there was a tap at the door, which
neither heard in the excitement of the moment,
for, eager to help him, and trembling lest he
should, in the excited state he was, go alone,
Louise threw herself upon her knees at her
brother's feet.

Be guided by me, dearest," she sobbed, ina
low pained voice. "You know how I love
yon, how I would die if it were necessary to
save you from suffering ; but don't — pray
don't ask me to go away from poor father in
such a way as this."

As she spoke a burst of hysteric sobbing
accompanied her words ; and then, as she
raised her tear-blinded eyes, she saw that
which filled her with horror. Uttering a faint
cry, she threw herself before her brother, as if
to shield him from arrest.

Duncan Leslie was standing in the open
doorway, and at her action he took a stride
fiercely into the room.

Harry's back was half turned toward him,
but he caught a glimpse of the figure in the
broad mirror of an old dresser, and with one
sweep of his arm dashed the light over upon
the floor.

The heavy lamp fell with a crash of broken
glass, and as Louise stood clinging to her
brother, there was a dead silence as well as
darkness in the room.

THE PLANT AUNT MARGUERITE GREW.

As Duncan Leslie walked up the steep path
leading to the old granite house he could not
help thinking of the absurdity of his act, and
wondering whether Louise Vine and her father
would see how much easier it would have been
for him to call at Van Heldre's.

"Can't help it," he said. "The old man
must think what he likes. Laugh at me in
his sleeve % Well, let him. I shan't be the
first man in love who has been laughed at."

In love, man, in love ! How stupid it
sounds ; and I suppose I am weak."

Human nature ! " he said after a pause ;
and he walked very fast.

Then he began to walk very slowly, as a
feeling of hesitation came over him, and he
asked himself whether the Vines would not
feel his coming as an intrusion, and be
annoyed.

She can't be annoyed," he said half aloud.

She may think it unfortunate, but she knows
I love her, and she is too true and sweet a
woman to be hard upon me'

With the full intention of going boldly to
the house, and trying to act in a frank, manly
way, letting Louise see that he was going to
be patient and earnest, he again strode on
rapidly, but only to hesitate again and stop
by one of the great masses of rock which
occurred here and there along the shelf-like
slope cut from the side of the towering hill.

Here he rested his arms upon the shaggy
stone and stood gazing out to sea, the darkness
looking wonderfully transparent and pure,
From where he stood the harbour was at his
feet, and he could see a spark-like light here
and there in cottage or boat, and a dull glow
from some open doorway on the opposite side
of the estuary.

The red light at the end of the east pier
sent a ruddy stain out to sea, and there was
another light farther out just rocking gently
to and fro, and as it caught his eye he shuddered,
for it shone out softly, as did the light
of the lugger on the night when Harry Vine
took that terrible leap.

"Poor weak boy," said Leslie to himself.
And then, " The more need for her to have one

in whom she can confide ; only I must be
patient — patient."

He turned with a sigh, and began to walk
back, for in his indecision the feeling was in
him strong now that a call would be an intrusion,
and that he must be content to wait.
By the time he was fifty yards down the
path the desire to see Louise again was
stronger than ever, and he walked back to
the stone, leaned over it, and stood thinking.
After a few minutes he turned sharply round
and looked, for he heard a heavy step as of
a man approaching, but directly after, as he
remained quiescent, he just made out that it
was not a man's step, but that of a sturdy
fisherman, who seemed in the gloom to
resemble Poll Perrow, but he could not be
sure, and forgot the incident as soon as she
passed. By the time the steps had died out,
Duncan Leslie's mind was fully made up ;
and, following the woman, he walked firmly
up to the gateway, entered, and, reaching the
hall door, which stood open, he rang. He
waited for some time, listening to a low murmur
of voices in the dining-room, and then
rang again. There was no reply, consequent
upon the fact that Liza was at the back gate,
to which she had been summoned by her

VOL. III. F

mother, who had come up in trouble, and was
asking her questions whose bearing she could
not understand.

Leslie's courage and patience began to fail,
bat he still waited, and then at last changed
colour, feeling the blood rush to his cheeks,
for there was a peculiarity in the conversation
going on in the dining-room, and it
seemed to him that some one was agitated and
in pain.

He turned away so as to force himself not
to hear, feeling that he was an interloper, and
then, in spite of himself, he returned to find
that the sounds had grown louder, and as if
involuntarily agitated and troubled more than
he would have cared to own, he rang again
and then entered the hall.

He hesitated for a few moments, and then
certain from the voices that there was something
strange, and divining wrongly or rightly
from the tones of one of the voices — a voice
which thrilled him as he stood there trembling
with excitement — that the woman he loved
needed help, he threw aside all hesitation, and
turned the handle of the door.

The words which fell upon his ear, the scene
he saw of Louise kneeling at some strange,
rough-looking man's feet, sent the blood surging

up to his brain, rendering him incapable
of calm thought, and turned the ordinarily
patient, deliberative man into a being wrought
almost to a pitch of madness.

It did not occur to him that he was an
intruder, and that he had no right to make
such a demand, but taking a stride forward,
he exclaimed —

Louise ! who is this man ? " as the lamp
was swept from the table, and they were in
darkness.

For a few moments no one spoke, and
Louise stood clinging to her brother, trembling
violently, and at her wits' end to know what
to do.

The simple w T ay out of the difficulty would
have been to take Duncan Leslie into their
confidence at once ; but in her agitation,
Louise shrank from that. She knew his stern
integrity; she had often heard of his firmness
with his mine people ; and she feared that in
his surprise and disgust at w r hat seemed to
her now little better than a trick played by
her brother to deceive them, Leslie would
turn against him and refuse to keep the
secret.

On the other hand, Harry, suffering from a
fresh access of dread, but now strung up and

excited, placed his lips to her ear and bade herbe
silent on her life.

The silence was for a few moments terrible,
and then Harry's breath could be heard coming
and going as if he had been hunted, while
Louise, in her agony of excitement, sought
vainly for words that should put an end to the
painful encounter.

No one moved ; and in the midst of the
nervous strain a sharp puff of wind came
sweeping up from the sea, like the avant garde
of a storm, and the casement window was blown
to with a loud clang.

Harry started as if he had felt that his
retreat was cut off, but he kept his face
averted, and dragged his rough hat down over
his eyes, though the action was unnecessary,
for the darkness was too great for him to be
recognized.

As he started Louise clung to him, and for
the moment he struggled to escape from her,
but he clung to her the next instant, and
quivered with fear as the silence was broken
by Leslie's voice, so cold, deep, and harsh that
it seemed as if a stranger was speaking.

I suppose I have no right to interfere," he
said ; " but there are times when a man forgets
or puts aside etiquette, and there are reasons

here why I should speak. Miss Vine, where is
your father ? "

Louise made an effort to reply, but there
was only a spasmodic catching of her breath.

Send him away. Tell him to go," whispered
Harry.

"I said, where is your father, Miss Vine ? "
said Leslie again more coldly.

At — at Mr. Van Heldre's," she murmured
at last. " Mr. Leslie — pray "

I am your fathers friend, and I should not
be doing my duty — ah ! my duty — to myself,"
he cried angrily, " if I did not speak plainly.
Does Mr. Vine know that this gentleman is
here I "

No," said Louise, in an almost inaudible
voice, and in the contagion of her brother's
fear she seemed to see him once more hunted
down by the officers of justice ; and the
terrible scene on the pier danced before her
eyes.

"So I suppose," said Leslie coldly.

Send him away," whispered Harry hoarsely.

"It is not in Miss Louise Vine's power to
send me away, sir," cried Leslie fiercely; and
the poor trembling girl felt her brother start
once more.

•'■'You, sir, are here, by her confession,

clandestinely. You are a scoundrel and a cur,
who dare not show your face, or you would not
have dashed out that light."

Harry made a harsh guttural sound, such as
might be uttered by a beast at bay.

"Who are you? I need not ask your
object in coming here. I could not help
hearing."

Tell him to go away," said Harry sharply,
speaking in French to disguise his voice.

Mr. Leslie, pray, pray go. This is a private
visit. I beg you will go."

Private enough," said Leslie bitterly ;
and once more I say you may think I have
no right to interfere. I give up all claims
that I might have thought I had upon you,
but as your father's friend I will not stand
calmly by and see wrong done his child.
Speak out, sir ; who are you ? Let's hear
your name, if you are ashamed to show your
face."

Tell him to go away," said Harry again.

Leslie writhed, for Aunt Marguerite's hints
about the French gentleman of good descent
came up now as if to sting him. This man he
felt, in his blind rage, was the noble suitor
who in his nobility stooped to come in the
darkness to try and persuade a weak girl to

leave her home ; and as he thought this it was
all he could do, hot-blooded, madly jealous and
excited, to keep from flinging himself upon
the supposed rival, the unworthy lover of the
woman he had worshipped with all the strength
of a man's first passion.

I can't talk to him in his wretched tongue,"
cried Leslie, fiercely ; " but 1 understand his
meaning. Perhaps he may comprehend mine.
Xo. I shall not go. I shall not leave this
room till Mr. Vine returns. He can answer to
your father, or I will, if I have done wrong."

Mr. Leslie ! " cried Louise, " you don't
know what you are doing — what you say.
Pray — pray go."

When mv old friend George Vine tells me
I have done wrong, and I have seen you safe
in his care."

Xo, no. Go now, now ! " cried Louise.

Leslie drew a deep breath and his heart beat
heavily in the agony and despair he felt. She
loved this man, this contemptible wretch who
had gained such ascendancy over her that she
was pleading in his behalf, and trying to screen
him from her father's cano-er.

Mr. Leslie. Do you hear me ? " she cried,
taking courage now in her despair and dread
lest her father should return.

Yes," lie said coldly, " I hear you, Miss
Vine ; and it would be better for you to retire,
and leave this man with me."

No, no," she cried excitedly. " Mr. Leslie !
you are intruding here. This is a liberty. I
desire you to go."

When Mr. Vine comes back," said Leslie
sternly. " If I have done wrong, then no
apology shall be too humble for me to speak.
But till he comes I stay. I have heard too
much. I may have been mad in indulging in
those vain hopes, but if that is all dead there
still remains too much honour and respect for
the woman I knew in happier times for me to
stand by and let her wrong herself by accompanying
this man."

Mr. Leslie, you are mistaken."

I am not."

Indeed — indeed ! "

Prove it then," he cried, in stern judicial
tones. " I am open to conviction. You love
this man ? " Louise was silent. " He was
begging you to accompany him in flight."
Louise uttered a low wail. " Hah ! " ejaculated
Leslie, " I am right."

No, no ; it is all a misapprehension," cried
Louise excitedly. " Mr. Leslie, this "

Hold your tongue," whispered Harry

hoarsely, and she moaned as she writhed inspirit.


There are reasons why my father should
not know of this visit."

So I suppose," said Leslie sternly; "and
you ask me to be a partner by giving way to

- jcond blow to that true-hearted, trusting;
man. Louise Vine., is it you who are speaking,
or has this man put these cruelly base
words in your mouth \ n

u What can I say \ What can I do ? " wailed
Louise, wringing her bands, as with every sense
on the strain she listened for her father's step.

Harry, who now that the first shock had
passed was rapidly growing more calm and
calculating, bent down over his sister, and
whispered to her again in French to go
quickly, and get her hat and mantle.

lie will not dare to stop us," he said.

Louise drew a long breath full of pain, for
it seemed to be the only way to save her
brother. She must go ; and, taking a step
or two she made for the door.

Xo," said Leslie calmly, " it is better that
you should stay, Miss Vine."

Harry was at her side in a moment.

Xever mind your hat," he whispered in
French ; " we must go at once."

Stand back, sir ! " cried Leslie, springing
to the door. " Your every act shows you to
be a base scoundrel. You may not understand
my words, but you can understand my
action. I am here by this door to keep it till
Mr. Vine returns. For the lady's sake, let
there be no violence."

Mr. Leslie, let us pass ! " cried Louise
imperiously, but he paid no heed to her, continuing
to address his supposed rival in calm,
judicial tones, which did not express the wild
rage seething in his heart.

I say once more, sir, let there be no
violence — for your own sake — for hers."

Harry continued to advance, with Louise's
hand in his, till Leslie had pressed close to the
door.

Once more I warn you," said Leslie, " for
I swear by Heaven you shall not pass while I
can lift a hand."

At that moment, in the obscurity, Louise
felt her hand dropped, and she reeled to the
side of the room, as now, with a fierce, harsh
sound, Harry sprang at Leslie's throat, pushed
him back against the door in his sudden onslaught,
and then wrenched him away.

Quick, Louise ! " he cried in French. " The
door ! "

Louise recovered herself and darted to the
door, the handle rattling in her grasp. But
she did not open it. She stood as if paralyzed,
her eves staring and lips parted, gazing wildly
at the two dimly-seen shadows which moved
here and there across the casement frames in a
curiously weird manner, to the accompaniment
of harsh, panting sounds, the dull tramping
of feet, heavy breathing, and the quick,
sharp ejaculations of angry men.

Then a fresh chill of horror shot through
her, as there was a momentary cessation of the
sounds, and Leslie panted,

Hah ! then you give in, sir ! "

The apparent resignation of his adversary
had thrown him off his guard, and the next
moment Harry had sprung at him, and with
his whole weight borne him backwards, so that
he fell with his head upon the bare patch of
the hearthstone.

There was the sound of a terrible blow, a
faint rustling, and then, as Louise stood there
like one in a nightmare, she was roused to
action by her brother's words.

Quick ! " he whispered, in a hoarse, panting
way. " Your hat and mantle. Not a
moment to lose ! "

The nightmare-like sensation was at an end,

but it was still all like being in a dream to
Louise, as, forced against her own will by the
effort of one more potent, she ran up to her
own room, and catching up a bonnet and a
loose cloak, she ran down again.

You have killed him," she whispered.

Pish ! stunned. Quick, or I shall be
caught."

He seized her wrist, and hurried her out of
the front door just as Liza went in at the
back, after a long whispered quarrel with
her mother, who was steadily plodding down
towards the town as brother and sister stepped
out.

What's that ? some one in front ? " whispered
Harry, stopping short. " Here, this
way."

Harry ! " moaned his sister, as he drew T
her sidewise and began to climb up the rough
side of the path so as to reach the rugged
land above.

It is the only chance," he said hastily.
Quick ! '■'

She followed him, half climbing, half
dragged, till she was up on the granite-strewn
waste, across which he hurried her, reckless
of the jagged masses of rock that were always
cropping up in their way, and of the fact that

in three places farther along, once fenced in
by stones, which had since crumbled down,
were, one after the other, the openings to
three disused mines, each a terrible yawning
chasm, with certain death by drowning for
the unfortunate who was plunged into their
depths.

AFTER THE GREAT SORROWS.

No, no, no, Mr. Vine — I mean no, no, no,
George Vine," sobbed Mrs. Van Heldre ; " I
did, I know, feel bitter and full of hatred
against one who could be so base as to raise
his hand against my loving, forbearing husband
; but that was when I was in misery
and despair. Do you think that now God has
blessed us by sparing his life and restoring
him to us, I could be so thankless, so hard
and wicked as to bear malice ? "

You are very, very good," said Vine sadly.

I wish I was," said Mrs. Van Heldre, with
a comic look of perplexity on her pretty elderly
countenance, " but I'm not, George, I'm a very
curious woman."

You are one of the best and most amiable
creatures that ever existed," said Vine, taking
her hand and kissing it.

I try to be good-tempered and to do my
best," said the little woman with a sigh, " but

I'm very weak and stupid ; and I know that
is the one redeeming point in my character, I
can feel what a weak woman I am."

Thank God you are what you are," said
Vine reverently. "If I had had such a wife
spared to me all these years, that terrible
catastrophe would not have occurred."

And you, George Vine, thank God, too,
for sparing to you the best and most loving
daughter that ever lived. Now, now, now,
don't look like that. I wanted to tell you
how fond and patient John always has been
with me, and Maddy too, when I have said
and done weak and silly things. For I do,
you know, sometimes. Ah, it's no use for you
to shake your head, and pretend you never
noticed it. You must."

"I hope you will never change," said Vine
with a sad smile.

Ah, that's better," cried Mrs. Van Heldre.
I'm glad to see you smile again, for Louie's
sake, for our sake ; and now, once for all,
never come into our house again, my dear
old friend and brother, looking constrained.
John has had long, honos talks with me and
Maddy."

Yes," cried Vine excitedly. " What did
he say ? "

Mrs. Van Helclre took his hand and
held it.

"He said," she whispered slowly, "that it
grieved and pained him to see you come to
his bedside looking as if you felt that we
blamed you for what has passed. He said
you had far more cause to blame him."

No, no," said Vine hastily. " I do not
blame him. It was fate — it was fate."

It wasn't anything of the kind," said Mrs.
Van Heldre sharply ; "it was that stupid,
obstinate, bigoted, wrong-headed old fellow
Cramp ton."

Who felt that he owed a duty to his
master, and did that duty."

Oh ! " sighed the little woman with a look
of perplexity in her puckered-up forehead, "I
told you that I was a very stupid woman.
I wanted to make you more cheerful and
contented, and see what I have done ! "

How can I be cheerful and contented, my
good little woman ? " said Vine sadly. " There,
there ! I shall be glad when a couple of years
have gone."

Why ? " said Mrs. Van Heldre sharply.

Because I shall either be better able to
bear my burden or be quite at rest."

George Vine ! " exclaimed Mrs. Van Heldre

reproachfully. " Is that you speaking ? Louise
remember Louise."

"Ah, yes." he said sadly, but sat gazing
dreamily before him. " Louise. If it had not
been for her "

He did not finish his sentence.

Come, my dear. John will be expecting
you for a long chat. Try and be more hopeful,
and don't go up to him looking like that.
Doctor Knatchbull said we were to make him
as cheerful as we could, and to keep him from
thinking about the past. He did say, too,
that we were not to let you see him much.
There "

Poor little Mrs. Van Heldre looked more
perplexed than ever, and now burst into tears.

He said that ? The doctor said that ? "

Yes ; but did you ever hear such a silly
woman in your life ? To go and blurt out
such a thing as that to you ! "

He was quite right — quite right," said
Vine hastily ; "and I'll be very careful not
to say or do anything to depress him. Poor
John ! Do you think he is awake now ? "

"Xo," said Mrs. Van Heldre, wiping her
eyes. "Maddy is with him, and she will
come down directly he wakes."

At that moment there was a ring, and on

VOL. III. G

the door being opened the servant announced
Luke Vine.

Hallo ! " he said, coming in after his usual
unceremonious fashion. " How is he ? "

Very, very much better, Luke Vine," said
Mrs. Van Heldre. " George is going up to
see him as soon as he wakes."

George ? My brother George ! Oh, you're
there, are you ? How are you, George ? How's
the girl ? "

Sit down, Luke Vine."
No, thank you, ma'am. Sit too much as
it is. Don't get enough exercise."

You shall go up and see John, as soon ashe
wakes."

No, thanks. "What's the use ? I couldn't
do him any good. One's getting old now. No
time to spare. Pity to waste what's left."

"Well, I'm sure," said Mrs. Van Heldre,
bridling. " Of all men to talk like that, you
ought to be the last. I'll go up and see
whether he is awake."

Poor little woman," said Uncle Luke, as
she left the room. " Always puts me in mind,
George, of a pink and white bantam hen."

As good a little woman as ever breathed,
Luke."

Yes, of course ; but it's comic to see her

ruffle up her feathers and go off in a huff.
How's Lou ? "

Not very well, Luke. Poor girl, she frets.
I shall have to take her away."

"Rubbish! She'll be all right directly.
Women have no brains."

George Vine looked up at him with an air
of mild reproof.

All tears and doldrums one day ; high
jinks and coquetry the next. Marry, and
forget all about you in a week."

"Luke, my dear brother, you do not mean
this."

Don't soap, George. I hate to be called
my dear brother. Now, do I look like a dear
brother ? "

I shall never forget your goodness to us
over our terrible trouble."

Will you be quiet ? Hang it all, George !
don't be such an idiot. Let the past be. The
poor foolish boy is dead ; let him rest. Don't
be for ever digging up the old sorrow, to
brood over it and try to hatch fresh. The eggs
may not be addled, and you might be successful.
Plenty of trouble without making more."

I do not wish to make more, Luke ; but
you hurt me when you speak so lightly of
Louise."

G 2

"A jade! I hate her."

No, you do not."

Yes, I do. Here's Duncan Leslie, as good
a fellow as ever stepped, who has stuck to
her through thick and thin, in spite of my
lady's powder, and fan, and her insults."

Marguerite has been very sharp and spiteful
to Mr. Leslie," said George Vine sadly.

She's mad. Well, he wants to marry the
girl, and she has pitched him over."

Has Louise refused him ? "

He doesn't say so ; but I saw him, and
that's enough. Of course I know that at
present — et cetera, et cetera : but the girl
wants a husband : all girls do. There was
one for her, and she is playing stand off with
him. Just like woman. He ! he ! he ! he ! "
He uttered a sneering laugh. " Going to
marry Madge's French count, I suppose —
Monsieur le Comte de Melville. There, I
can't help it, George, old lad ; it makes me
wild. Shake hands, old chap. Didn't mean
to hurt your feelings ; but between ourselves,
though I've never shown it to a soul, I was
rather hit upon the idea of Leslie marrying
Louise."

I had thought it possible," said George
Vine, with a sigh.

•• Her fault. Hang it all, George, be a man,
and bestir yourself."

I am trying, brother Luke."

That's right, lad ; and for goodness' sake
put down your foot and keep Margaret in her
place. Louie is soft now with trouble, and
that wicked old woman will try to work her
and mould her into what shape she pleases.
You've had enough of Margaret."

•'•' I have tried to do my duty by our
sister."

'you've done more, my lad. Now take
care that she leaves Louie alone. You don't
want another old maid of her pattern in the
family"'

John is awake now, George Vine," said
Mrs. Van Heldre, re-entering the room. " Will
you go up ? "

•'•' Yes, I'll go up," said George Vine quietly.

"Well, aren't I to be asked to see him?"
grumbled Uncle Luke.

Oh, what a strange man you are ! " said
Mrs. Van Heldre ; " you know I wanted you
to go up."

; Xo, I don't ; I know you asked me to go
up. Different thing altogether."

I did want you to go. I felt that it would
cheer up poor John."

Well, don't be cross about it, woman.
Ask me again."

Mrs. Van Heldre turned with a smile to
George Vine, as much as to say, "Did you
ever hear such an unreasonable being ? "

Eum one, aren't I, John's wife, eh % " said
Uncle Luke grimly. " Good little woman,
after all."

"After all!" ejaculated Mrs. Van Heldre,
as she followed them into the room, and then
stopped back. " Too many of us at once can't
be good, so I must stay down," she added,
with a sigh.

Crossing; to the table where her bird's cage
was standing, she completely removed the
cover, now displaying a pink and gray ball
of feathers upon the perch, her action having
been so gentle that the bird's rest was not
disturbed.

"Poor little prisoner!" she said gently.
There, you may wake up tomorrow morning
and pipe and sing in the bright sunshine, for
we can bear it now — thank Goal ! we can bear
it now."

THE DISCOVERY.

Madeleine rose as the brothers entered the
room, and before coming to the bed, where
Van Heldre lay rapidly mending now, George
Vine took the girl's hands, looked down in
her pale face, which sorrow seemed to have
refined, and bent down and kissed her.

"How are you, Maddy?" said Luke Vine,
gruffly ; and he was going on to the bed, but
Madelaine laid her hand upon his shoulder,
leant towards him, and kissed him.

"Hah! yes, forgot," he said, brushing her
forehead roughly with his gray beard ; and
then, yielding to a sudden impulse, kissing
the girl tenderly. " How I do hate girls ! " he
muttered to himself, as he went straight to the
window and stood there for a few moments.

"Poor lad!" he said to himself. "Yes,
hopeless, or a girl like that would have redeemed
him."

He turned back from the window.

"Boom too hot and stuffy," he said. "Well,
how are you, John ? "

"Getting well fast," replied Van Heldre,
shaking hands. " Splendid fish that was you
sent me to-day ; delicious."

Humph ! all very fine ! Shilling or fife
out of pocket," grumbled. Uncle
Luke.

Get out ! " said Van Heldre, after a keen
look at George Vine. "Poll Perrow wouldn't
have given you more than nine pence for a fish
like that. It's wholesale, Luke, wholesale."

"Ah! you may grin and wink at George,"
grumbled Uncle Luke, " but times are getting
hard."

They are, old fellow, and we shall behaving
you in the workhouse, if we can't
manage to get you to the Victoria Park
place."

"Here, come away, George," snarled Uncle
Luke. " He's better. Beginning to sneer.
Temper's getting very bad now, I suppose, my
dear ? " he added to Madelaine.

Terrible. Leads me a dreadful life, Uncle
Luke," she said, putting her arm round Van
Heldre's neck to lay her cheek against his
brow for a moment or two before turning to
leave the room.

Cant and carry," said Uncle Luke. " Don't
you believe her, John Van ; she'll be coming
to you for money tomorrow — bless her' he
added sotto voce; then aloud, "What now?"

For Madelaine had gone behind his chair,
and placed her hands upon his shoulders.

It's all waste of breath, Uncle Luke," she
said gently. " We found you out a long time
ago. Louise and I."

What do you mean ? "

All this pretended cynicism. It's a mere
disguise."

An ass in the lion's skin, eh ? "

No, LTncle Luke," she whispered, with
her lips close to his ear, so that the others
should not catch the words, "that is the
wrong way, sir. Reverse the fable."

What do you mean, hussy ? "

The dear old lion in the ass's skin," she
whispered ; " and whenever you try to bray it
is always a good honest roar."

Well, of all "

He did not finish, for Madeline had hurried
from the room, but a sri smile came over his
cynical countenance, and he rubbed his hands
softly as if he was pleased. Then, drawing
his chair nearer to the bed, he joined in the
conversation at rare intervals, the subjects

chosen being all as foreign as possible from
the past troubles, till Mrs. Van Heldre came
softly into the room.

"I am Doctor Knatchbull's deputy," she
said ; " and my orders are not to let John
excite himself."

All nonsense, my dear," said Van Heldre.

She is quite right, John," said George
Vine, rising.

Quite right," said Uncle Luke, following
his brother's example. " Keep him quiet.
Make haste and get well. Good-night. Come,
George."

He was at the door by the time he had
finished his speech, and without pausing to
shake hands began to descend.

Madelaine came out of the drawing-room
as the old man reached the hall.

What do you think of him ? " she said
eagerly.

Going backwards — dying fast," he said
shortly.

Oh ! "

Don't be a little goose," he cried, catching
her in his arms as she reeled. " We all are ;
especially people over fifty. Bonny little
nurse. You've done wonders. Good-night,
my dear ; God bless you ! "

She returned his loving fatherly kiss, given
hastily, as if he were ashamed of his weakness,
and then he strode out into the dark
night.

"Poor Uncle Luke!" she said softly. "I
was right. He must have had some shock
to change his life like this. Good-night, dear
Mr. Vine. My dearest love to Louie."

Good-night, my darling," he whispered
huskily, and the next minute he was walking
slowly away beside his brother in the direction
of the turning up to the granite house.

Good-night, Luke," said George Vine.
"It is of no use to say come up."

"Yes, it is," said Uncle Luke snappishly.
I want to see Louie, and have a decent cup
of tea."

1 am very glad," said his brother warmly.
Hah ! that's right. Come more often, Luke.
We are getting old men now, and it's pleasant
to talk of the days when we were boys."

And be driven from the place by Madge
with her pounce-box and her civet-cat airs.
You kick her out, and I'll come often."

"Poor Marguerite ! "

There you go ; encouraging the silly
French notions. Why can't you call her
Margaret, like a British Christian ? "

Let her finish her span in peace, brother,"
said George Vine, whose visit to his old friend
seemed to have brightened him, and made
voice and step elastic. " We are crotchety and
strange too, I with my mollusk hobby, you
with your fishing."

If you want to quarrel, I'm not coming
up."

Yes you are, Luke. There, come often,
and let poor Margaret say what she likes.
We shall have done our duty by her, so that
will be enough for us."

Hang duty ! I'm getting sick of duty.
No matter what one does, or how one tries to
live in peace and be left alone, there is always
duty flying in one's face."

Confession of failure, Luke," said his
brother, taking his arm. " You had given
up ordinary social life, invested your property,
sent your plate to your banker's, and settled
down to the life of the humblest cottager, to,
as you say, escape the troubles of every-day
life."

Yes, and I've escaped 'em — roguish tradespeople,
household anxieties, worries out of
number."

In other words," said Vine, smiling, " done
everything you could to avoid doing your

duty, and for result you have found that
trouble comes to your cottage in some form
or another as frequently as it does to my big
house."

Uncle Luke stopped short, and gave his
stick a thump on the path.

I have done, Luke," said Vine quietly.
Come along ; Louise will think we are very
long."

"Louise will be very glad to have had an
hour or two to herself without you pottering
about her. Hah ! what idiots we men are,
fancying that the women are looking out for
us from our point of view when they are
looking out from theirs for fear of being
surprised, and "

"Here we are, Luke. Come in, my dear
boy."

Uncle Luke grunted.

Oh, I don't know," he said, " it's getting
late. Perhaps I had better not come in now."

The tea will be waiting," said his brother,
holding his arm lightly as he rang.

Horribly dark for my walk back afterwards,"
grumbled Uncle Luke. " Really
dangerous place all along there by the cliff.
No business to be out at night. Ought to
be at home."

Tea ready, Liza ? " said George Vine, as
the door was opened, and the pleasant glow
from the hall shone upon them in a way
that, in spite of his assumed cynicism, looked
tempting and attractive to Uncle Luke.

Miss Louise hasn't rung for the urn yet,
sir."

Hah ! that will do. Give me your hat,
Luke'

Bah ! nonsense ! Think I can't hang up
my own hat now.

George Vine smiled, and he shook his head
at his brother with a good-humoured smile
as he let him follow his own bent.

That's right. Come along. Louie dear,
I've brought Uncle Luke up to tea. All dark ?
Liza, bring the lamp."

Liza had passed through the baize-covered
door which separated the domestic offices
from the rest of the house, and did not hear
the order.

Louie ! Louie dear ! "

Oh ! I don't mind the dark," said Uncle
Luke. " Here, why don't the girl let in some
air these hot nights ? " he continued, as he
crossed the room towards the big embayment,
with its stained glass heraldic device.

Crack ! crackle !

Hullo here ! Broken glass under one's
feet," said Luke Vine, with a chuckle. " This
comes of having plenty of servants to keep
your place clean."

Glass ?"

"Yes, glass. Can't you hear it?" snarled
Uncle Luke, who, as he found his brother
resume his old demeanour, relapsed into his
own. " There ! glass — glass — glass crunching
into your Turkey carpet."

As he spoke he gave his foot a stamp, with
the result that at each movement there was
a sharp crackling sound.

It's very strange. Louise ! "

oh : "

A low, piteous moan.

What's that ? " cried Uncle Luke sharply.

George Vine stood in the darkness paralyzed
with dread. Some fresh trouble had
befallen his house — some new horror assailed
him ; and his hand wandered vaguely about
in search of support as a terrible feeling of
sickness came over him, and he muttered
hoarsely, " Louise ! my child ! my child ! "

Luke Vine was alarmed, but he did not
lo se his presence of mind.

Margaret — a fit," he said to himself, as,
turning quickly, his foot kicked against another

portion of the lamp-globe, which tinkled loudly
as it fell to pieces.

He brushed by his brother, hurrying out
into the hall, to return directly bearing the
lamp which stood on a bracket, and holding
it high above his head as he stepped carefully
across the carpet.

(l There ! there ! " whispered George Vine,
pointing towards the fireplace, where he could
see a figure lying athwart the hearth-rug.

Then, as Luke held the light higher, George
Vine seemed to recover his own presence of
mind, and going down on one knee as he bent
over, he turned the face of the prostrate man
to the light.

Duncan Leslie ! " cried Uncle Luke excitedly,
as he quickly set down the lamp aud
knelt on the other side. " Where's Louie ?
The poor boy's in a fit."

No, no," whispered his brother hoarsely.
-Look! look!"

Luke drew in a quick, hissing breath.

Call Louie," he said sharply. " Tell her
to bring something to bind up his head —
scissors, sponge, and water."

Has he been struck down ? " faltered
George Vine, with the thought of his old
friend rushing to his mind.

"No, no. Don't talk. Here, your handkerchief,
man' said Luke, who was far the

more matter-of-fact. "A fall. Head cut.
Slip on the cliff, I suppose, and he has come
here for help."

Taking the handkerchief passed to him by
his brother, he rapidly bound it round the
place where a deep cut was slowly welling,
while George Vine dragged sharply at the
bell, and then ran to the door and called,
Louise ! Louis ! "

Liza came hurrying into the hall, round-eyed
and startled.

Where is your mistress ? " cried Vine.

•• Miss Louise, sir ? Isn't she there ? "

No. Go up to her room and fetch her.
Perhaps she is with Miss Vine."

I'll go and see, sir," said the girl wondering
ugly : a n d she ran u p-stairs.

''' Help me to get him on the sofa, George''
said Uncle Luke ; and together they placed
the injured man with his head resting on a
cushion.

Now, then, I think we had better have
Knatchbull. He must have had a nasty fall.
Send your girl ; or no, I'll go myself."

'■ No," said Leslie feebly ; " don't go."

Ah ! that's better. You heard what I said \ "

VOL. III. h

Yes ; what you said."

It was a feeble whisper, and as the brothers
bent over the injured man, they could see that
he was gazing wildly at them with a face full
of horror and despair.

I'll trot down and fetch Knatchbull,"
whispered Uncle Luke.
No."

The negative came from Leslie, who was
lying back with his eyes closed, and it was so
decisive that the brothers paused.

At that moment Liza entered the room.
She isn't up-stairs, sir. — Ow ! "
The girl had caught sight of Leslie's ghastly
face, and she uttered an excited howl, and
thrust her fingers into her ears.

Leslie looked up at George Vine vacantly
for a moment, and then light seemed to come
to his clouded brain, and his lips moved.

Say it again," said Vine, bending over
him.

Send — her — away," whispered the injured
man.

Yes, of course. Liza, go and wait — no ;
get a basin of water, sponge, and towel, and
bring them when I ring."

The girl looked at him wildly, but she had
not heard his words ; and Uncle Luke put an

end to the difficulty by taking her arm and
leading her into the hall.

Go and get sponge and basin. Mr. Leslie
has fallen and hurt himself. Now, don't be
stupid. You needn't cry."

The girl snatched her arm away and ran
through the baize door.

Just like a woman ! " muttered Uncle
Luke as he went back ; " no use when she's
wanted. Well, how is he ? "

Leslie heard the whisper, and turned his
eyes upon him with a look of recognition.

Better," he whispered. "Faint — water."

George Vine opened the cigarette, and
gave him a little brandy, whose reviving
power proved wonderful. But after heaving
a deep sigh, he lay back with his forehead
puckered.

Hadn't I better fetch Knatchbull, my
lad ? " said Uncle Luke gruffly, but with a
kindly ring in his voice. " Cut on the back of
your head. He'd soon patch it up."

No. Better soon," said Leslie in a low
voice. " Let me think."

Be on the look out," whispered Uncle Luke
to his brother. " Better not let Louise come in."

Leslie's eyes opened quickly, and he gazed
from one to the other.

H 2

Better not let her see you till you are
better," said Uncle Luke, taking the injured
man into their confidence.

A piteous sigh escaped from Leslie, and he
closed his eyes tightly.

Poor boy ! " said Uncle Luke, " he must
have had an ugly fall. Missed his way in the
dark, I suppose. George, you'll have to keep
him here to-night."

Yes, yes, of course," said George Vine
uneasily, for his ears were on the strain to
catch his child's step, and her absence troubled
him.

All at once Leslie made an effort to sit up,
but a giddy sensation overcame him, and he
sank back, staring at them wildly.

Don't be alarmed," said George Vine
kindly. "You are faint. That's better."

Leslie lay still for a few moments, and then
made a fresh effort to sit up. This time it was
with more success.

Give him a little more brandy," whispered
Uncle Luke.

No ; he is feverish, and it may do harm.
Yes," he said to Leslie, as the injured man
grasped his arm, " you want to tell us how you
fell down."

No," said Leslie quickly, but in a faint

voice, " I did not fall. It was in the

struggle."

Struggle ? " cried Uncle Luke. " Were

CO

you attacked ? "

Leslie nodded quickly.

Where ? Along the road ? "

Xo," said Leslie hoarsely ; " here."

Here ? " exclaimed the brothers in a

breath ; and then they exchanged glances,

each silently saying to the other, " The poor

fellow is wandering."

o

There," said Leslie, " I can think clearly
now. It all seemed like a dream. You must
know. Mr. Vine. I must tell you," he added
piteously. " Mr. Vine, what do you propose
doing; ? "

o

Hush ! " said George Vine, laying his hand
upon the young man's shoulder, " you are il
and excited now. Don't talk at present.
Wait a little while. "

Wait ? " cried Leslie, growing more excited.
You do not know what you are saying.
How long have I been lying here ? What
time is it ? "

About nine," said Vine kindly. " Come,
come, lie back for a few moments. We'll get
some cold water, and bathe your temples."

Man, you will drive me mad," cried

Leslie. " Do you not — no, you have not
understood yet. Louise — Miss Vine ! "

George Vine stared as if he had been
struck, and his brother caught his arm ashe
stood there gasping, with his hand to his
throat.

What do you mean \ " cried Uncle Luke
sternly.

I am sick and faint," said Leslie, pressing
his hands to his brow, as if unable to think
clearly. " I remember now. I came in to ask
about Mr. Van Heldre, and a stranger was
with Miss Vine. I tried to stop him — till you
returned. We struggled, and he threw me. I
recollect no more."

You're mad ! " said Uncle Luke savagely.
Where is Louise ? "

His brother caught hold of the back of a
chair to support himself, and his lips moved,
but no sound came.

Yes, I can recollect it all clearly now,"
panted Leslie. " You must know ! "

And he told them all.

They heard him in silence, devouring his
words, and from time to time exchanging a
hurried glance of inquiry.

Bah ! " ejaculated Uncle Luke, as the
young man finished. Then, changing his

manner, " Yes, of course. There, lie back,
my lad, and tell us again after you've bad a
rest."

No, no," cried Leslie passionately, " it is
wasting time. Sbe was forced to £o. Sbe was
imploring him to let her stay when I came
in, and they must be miles away by now.
For Heaven's sake do something before it is too
late."

A Frenchman ? " said Uncle Luke eagerly.

Yes ; he spoke to her in French, as well
as in English."

And did my niece speak to him in
French ! "

No ; she was appealing to him in English,
but he spoke at times in French."

Do you hear this, George % Has Louise a
French friend ? "

No," cried her father angrily, "it is a
delusion."

I would to Heaven it were," groaned Leslie,
I would to Heaven it were ! "

George Vine crossed to the bell-pull, and
rang sharply, repeating the summons before
Liza had time to enter the room.

When did you see your mistress last ? " he
said sharply.

When I took in the lamp, sir."

Liza knew no more, and was dismissed,
after staring wonderingly from one to the
other.

Stop ! " cried Uncle Luke. " Go up and
ask Miss Vine if my niece has been with her'

Liza returned with an answer in the negative
; and as soon as they were alone, Leslie
said piteously,

You disbelieve me."

"No, no, my lad," said Uncle Luke; "we
only think you are suffering from your fall,
and distrust what you have, or think you have,
seen."

Think ! " said Leslie angrily.

You say some man was with my niece — a
Frenchman'

Yes ; I am bound to tell you for her
sake."

"It is not true," cried George Vine fiercely.

They looked at him with surprise, for he
seemed transformed from the quiet, mild-looking
man to one full of fierce determination ashe
stood there with flashing eyes.

My daughter knew no Frenchman."

Leslie winced as if stung, for the mental
suggestion was there that Louise had hoodwinked
her father and kept up some clandestine
engagement with this man.

Do you hear me ? " cried Vine angrily.
I say it is not true. Mr. Leslie, you have
been deceived, or you have deceived yourself.
I beg your pardon. You are not yourself. It
is useless to discuss this further. Luke, all this
seems mysterious because we have no key to
the puzzle. Pish ! puzzle ! it is no puzzle.
Louise will be here shortly. Mr. Leslie, be
advised : lie still for an hour, and then my
brother and I will see you home. Or, better
still, let me offer you the hospitality of my
house for the night.' 1

The cloud that had obscured Leslie's brain
had now passed away, leaving his mental
perceptions clear, while his temper was exacerbated
by the injury he had received, and
by the agony he suffered on account of Louise.
In place of lying back, he rose from the couch
and faced George Vine, with his lips quivering
and an angry look in his eyes.

•'•'Look,'' he said hoarsely, "I am weak and
helpless. If I take a few steps I shall reel
and fall, or I would do what I tried to do
before, act on her behalf. You mock at
my words. You, her father, and stand there
wasting time : valuable time, which, if used
now, might save that poor girl from a life of
misery. Do you hear me I I tell you she has

gone — fled with that man. He forced her to
go with threats. Do you not hear me ? "

Leslie, my lad," said Uncle Luke, " becalm,
be calm."

You are as mad and blind as he ! " cried
Leslie. " Heaven help me, and I am as weak
as a child."

He strode towards the door, and proved the
truth of his words, for he tottered, and would
have fallen but for Uncle Luke.

There, you see," he cried fiercely, " I can
do nothing, and you, uncle and father, stand
blind to the misery and disgrace which threaten
you."

Silence ! " cried George Vine ; " I can hear
no more."

He turned upon Leslie fiercely.

"Your words, sir, are an insult to me, an
insult to my child. I tell you I can hear no
more. What you say is false. My daughter
could not leave my house like this. Go, sir,
before I say words which I may afterwards
repent, and — and "

George, man, what is it ? " cried Uncle
Luke, as his brother's words trailed off, and
he stopped suddenly in the agitated walk he
had kept up to and fro while he was addressing
Leslie.

There was no answer to the agitated question,
for George Vine was gazing clown at
something beside the table, lying half covered
by the dragged-aside cloth.

Whatever it was it seemed to act as a spell
upon the old naturalist, whose eyes were fixed,
and his whole aspect that of one suddenly fixed
by some cataleptic attack.

"What is it? Are you ill?" cried Uncle
Luke excitedly, as he stepped forward. " Hah,
a letter ! "

He was in the act of stooping to pick it up,
but his act seemed to rouse his brother from
his lethargy, and he caught him by the arm.

No, no," he whispered; and slowly putting
his brother back, he stooped and stretched out
his hand to pick up the half-hidden letter.

They could see that his hand trembled
violently, and the others stood watching every
act, for the feeling was strong upon both that
the letter which Vine raised and held at arm's
length contained the explanation needed.

George Vine held the letter toward the
shaded lamp, and then passed his left handover
his eyes, and uttered a hoarse sigh, which
seemed as if torn from his heart.

I — I can't read," he whispered — "eyes dim
to-night, Luke. Read."

Uncle Luke's hand trembled now as he
took the missive, and slowly tore open the
envelope ; but as he drew out the letter it
was snatched from his hands by his brother,
who held it beneath the lamp-shade and bent
down to read.

He raised himself up quickly and passed
his hand across his eyes, as if to sweep away
some film which hindered his reading, and the
silence in that room was terrible as he bent
down again.

A strong pang of suffering shot through
Duncan Leslie as he saw the old man's lips
quivering, while he read in a slow, laborious
way, the few lines contained in the note, and
then, after once more making an effort to clear
his vision, he seemed to read it again.

"George — brother — why don't you speak?"
said Uncle Luke at last.

George Vine looked up in a curiously dazed
way.

Speak ? " he said huskily ; " speak ? "

Yes ; is that from Louise ?"

He bowed his head in assent.

Well, what does she say, man ? What
does it mean ? "

George Vine looked in his brother's eyes
once more — the same curiously dazed look as

if lie hardly comprehended what was taking
place. Then he slowly placed the note in
Luke's hands.

There was no slow, dazed manner here, for
the old cynic was full of excitement, and he
seemed to read the note at a glance.

Gone ! " he said. " Then she has gone ? "

"Yes," said his brother slowly; "she has
gone."

"But this man, George — this man, Leslie.
Don't stare, man, speak."

What do you wish me to say, sir ? " said
Leslie, hoarsely.

Who was he ? What was he like ? "

I could not see his face, he kept it averted.
I can tell you no more, sir. I tried to force
him to stay till Mr. Vine's return, as I before
told you, and you saw the result."

A Frenchman % "

He spoke in French."

George, had you any suspicion of this ? "

"No."

You never heard word ? "

I never heard word."

"But it must have been o'oino; on for
honos enough. And you knew nothing whatever
? "

And I knew nothing whatever," said

George Vine, his words coming slowly and
in a voice which sounded perfectly calm.

Then you know from what black cloud
this bolt has come ? "

"I — I know nothing," said Vine, in the
same slow, strange way.

Then, I can tell you," cried Luke, furiously.
" If ever man nursed viper at his
fireside, you have done this, for it to sting
you to the heart. Hah ! " he cried, as the
door opened and Aunt Marguerite sailed in,
drawing herself up in her most dignified way,
as she saw who was present, and then ignoring
both strangers, she turned to her brother.

What is the meaning of these inquiries ? "
she said sternly. " Where is Louise ? "

Ask your own heart, woman," cried Uncle
Luke, furiously. "Gone — gone with some
wretched French impostor of your introduction
here."

Aunt Marguerite gazed at him angrily.

I say where is Louise ? " she cried excitedly.


Mr. Leslie," said George Vine, after drawing
a long breath, his sister's shrill voice
having seemed to rouse him ; " you will forgive
a weak, trusting old man for what he
said just now ? "

Forgive you. Mr. Vine ! "

I was sure of it. Thank you. I am very

weak."

But Louise ? " cried Aunt Marguerite.

"Bead her letter. Gone!" cried Uncle
Luke fiercely, as he thrust the note in the
old woman's face.

Gone ! " said George Vine, staring straight
before him with the curious look in his eyes
intensified, as was the stony aspect of his face.
Gone I Thank God— thank God ! "

George, what are you saying V cried Uncle
Luke excitedly.

I say thank God that my dear wife was
not spared to me to see the blow that has
fallen upon my home to-night."

Brother, sister, Duncan Leslie stood gazing
at the silvered head, dimly seen above the
shaded lamp. The face was unnaturally calm
and strange ; and weak as he was, Duncan
Leslie sprang forward. He had seen what was
coming, and strove vainly to save the stricken
man, for George Vine seemed to have been
robbed of all power, and fell with a weary
moan senseless at his brother's feet.

BROKEN WITH THE EIGHT.

Better stop where you are, man," said
Uncle Luke.

No," said Leslie, as he stood gazing;
straight before him as one who tries to see
right on into the future along the vista of
one's own life.

But it is nearly one o'clock. Sit down
there and get a nap."

"No. I must go home," said Leslie slowly,
and in a measured way, as if he were trying
to frame his sentences correctly in carrying on
the conversation while thinking of something
else.

Well, you are your own master."

Yes," said Leslie. " How is he ? "

Calmer now. He was half mad when
he came to, and Knatchbull was afraid of
brain fever, but he gave him something to
quiet the excitement. Better have given you
something too."

What are you going to do ? " said Leslie,
turning upon the old man suddenly, and with
a wild look in his eyes.

Do nothing rashly," said Uncle Luke.

But time is flying, man."

Yes. Always is," said Uncle Luke, coolly,
as he watched his companion with half closed
eyes.

But "

That will do. I cannot discuss the matter
to-night, my head's in a whirl. Do nothing
rashly is a capital maxim."

But we are wasting time."

Look here, young man," said Uncle Luke,
taking Leslie by the lappet of the coat. " I'm
not blind. I dare say I can see as far through
you as most people can. I am an old man,
and at my time of life I can be calm and
dispassionate, and look on at things judicially."

Judicially ? " said Leslie bitterly ; " any
child could judge here."

"Oh, no," said the old man ; " big child as
you are, you can't."

What do you mean ? "

That you are only a big stupid boy,
Duncan Leslie."

Don't insult me in my misery, man."

Not I, my lad. I like you too well. I

VOL. III. I

am only playing the surgeon, hurting you todo
you good. Look here, Leslie, you are in
pair, and you are madly jealous."

Jealous ! " cried the young man scornfully,
"of whom?"

My niece — that man — both of them."

Not I. Angry with myself, that's all, for
being an idiot."

And because you are angry with yourself,
you want to follow and rend that man who
knocked you down ; and because you call yourself
an idiot for being deeply attached to
Louise, you are chafing to go after her, and at
any cost bring her back to throw yourself at
her feet, and say, * Don't have him, have
me'"

Ah ! " cried Leslie furiously. " There,
you are an old man and licensed."

Yes, I am the licensed master of our
family, Leslie, and I always speak my
mind."

Yes, you sit there talking, when your
duty is to follow T and bring your niece back
from disgrace," cried the young man furiously.

Thank you for teaching me my duty, my
lad. You have had so much more experience
than I. All the same, Duncan Leslie, my hotheaded
Scot, I am going to sleep on it, and

that's what I advise you to do. There : be
reasonable, man. You know you are not in a
condition for dispassionate judgment."

I tell you any one could judge this case'
said Leslie hotly.

And I tell you, my dear boy, that it would
have puzzled Solomon."

Will you go in search of her directly \ "

"Will I go out in the dark, and run my
head against the first granite wall \ Xo, my
boy, I will not."

-Then I must."

What, run your head against a wall ? "

Bah ! "

;; Look here, Leslie, I've watched you, my
lad, for long enough past. I saw you take a
fancy to my darling niece Louie ; and I felt
as if I should like to come behind and pitch
you off the cliff. Then I grew more reasonable,
for I found by careful watching that
you were not such a bad fellow after all, and
what was worse, it seemed to me that, in spite
of her aunt's teaching, Louie was growing up
into a clever sensible girl, with only one
weakness, and that a disposition to think a
little of you."

Leslie made an angry gesture.

Come, my lad, I'll speak plainly, and put

I 2

aside all cynical nonsense. Answer me this :
How long have you known my niece ? "
What does that matter ? "
"Much. I'll tell you. About a year, and
at a distance. And yet you presume, in your
hot-headed, mad, and passionate way, to sit in
judgment upon her, and to treat my advice
with contempt."

"You cannot see it all as I do."
Thank goodness ! " muttered Uncle Luke.
You did not witness what I did to-night."
No. I wish I had been there."
I wish you had," said Leslie, bitterly.
"Now you are growing wild again. Becalm,
and listen. Now I say you have known
our child a few months at a distance, and you
presume to judge her. I have known her ever
since she was the little pink baby which I held
in these hands, and saw smile up in my face,
I have known her as the patient, loving, unwearying
daughter, the forbearing niece to her
eccentric aunt — and uncle, my lad. You ought
to have said that. I have known her these
twenty years as the gentle sister who fought
hard to make a sensible man of my unfortunate
nephew. Moreover, I have known her
in every phase, and while I have openly snarled
and sneered at her, I have in my heart groaned

and said to myself, what a different life might
mine have been had I known and won the love
of such a woman as that."

Oh, yes, I grant all that," said Leslie,
hurriedly ; " but there was the vein of natural
sin within."

Natural nonsense, sir ! " cried Uncle Luke,
angrily. " How dare you ! A holier, truer
woman never breathed."

Till that scoundrel got hold of her and
cursed her life," groaned Leslie. " Yes,
trample on me. I suppose I deserve it."

Yes," cried the old man, " if only for
daring to judge her, when I tell you that withall
my knowledge of her and her life, I dare
not. Xo, my lad, I'm going to sleep on it, and
in the morning see if I can't find out the end
of the thread, of the clue which will lead us to
the truth."

There is no need," groaned Leslie. " We
know the truth."

And don't even know who this man is. No,
indeed, we do not know the truth. All right,
my lad, I can read your looks. I'm a trusting,
blind old fool, am I \ Very well, jealous pate,
but I warn you, I'm right and you're wrong."

Would to Heaven I were ! I'd give ten
years of my life that it could be proved."

Give ten years of nonsense. How generous
people are at making gifts of the impossible
! But look here, Duncan Leslie, I'll
have you on your knees for this when we
have found out the mystery ; and what looks
so black and blind is as simple as A B C.
Trash ! bolt with some French adventurer ?
Our Louie ! Rubbish, sir ! Everything will be
proved by and by. She couldn't do it. Loves
her poor old father too well. There, once
more take my advice, lie down there and have
a nap, and set your brain to work in the
sunshine, not in the dark."

No."

Going ? "

"Yes, I am going. Good-night, sir."

Good-night, you great stupid, obstinate,
thick-headed Scotchman," growled Uncle
Luke, as he let him out, and stood listening
to his retiring steps. " I hope you'll slip over
the cliff and half kill yourself. There's something
about Duncan Leslie that I like after
all," he muttered, as he went back to the
dining-room, and after a few minutes' thought,
went softly up to his brother's chamber, to
find him sleeping heavily from the effect of
the sedative given by the doctor.

Uncle Luke stole out quietly, shook his fist

at his sister's door, and then went below to sit
for a while studying Louise's letter, before
lying down to think, and dropping off to sleep
with the comforting self-assurance that all
would come right in the end.

Meanwhile Duncan Leslie had gone down
the steep descent, and made his way to the
foot of the cliff-path, up which, with brain and
heart throbbing painfully, he slowly tramped.
The night was dull and cold, and as he
ascended toward Luke Vine's rough cottage,
he thought of how often he had met Louise on
her way up there to her uncle's ; and how he
had often remained at a distance watching
from his own place up at the mine the graceful
form in its simple attire, and the sweet,
earnest face, whose eyes used once to meet
his so kindly, and with so trusting a look.

Sleep on it ! " he said, as he recalled the
old man's words. " No sleep will ever make
me think differently. I must have been mad
I must have been mad."

He had reached the old man's cottage, and
almost unconsciously stopped and seated himself
on the rough block of granite which was
Uncle Luke's favourite spot when the sun
shone.

Before him lay the sea spreading out deep

and black, and as impenetrable as to its
mysteries as the blank future he sought to
fathom ; and as he looked ahead, the sea,
the sky, the future all seemed to grow more
black.

His had been a busy life ; school, where he
had been ambitious to excel ; college, where
he had worked still more hard for honours,
with the intention of studying afterwards for
the bar ; but fate had directed his steps in
another direction, and through an uncle's wish
and suggestions, backed by the fact that he
held the mine, Duncan Leslie found himself,
when he should have been eating his dinners
at the Temple, partaking of them in the far
West of England, with a better appetite, and
perhaps with better prospects from a monetary
point of view.

His had been so busy a life that the love-illness
complaint of a young man was long
in getting a hold, but when it did seize him,
the malady was the more intense.

He sat there upon the old, worn piece of
granite, making no effort to go farther, but
letting his memory drift back to those halcyon
days when he had first begun to know that he
possessed a heart disposed to turn from its
ordinary force-pump work to the playing of a

sentimental part such as had stranded him
where he was, desolate and despairing, a wreck
with his future for ever spoiled.

He argued on like that, sometimes with
tender recollections of happy days when he
had gone Lack home from some encounter,
with accelerated pulses and a sensation of hope
and joy altogether new.

He dwelt upon one particular day when he
had come down from the mine to find Louise
seated where he then was ; and as he recalled
the whole scene, he uttered a groan of misery,
and swept it away by the interposition of that
of the previous evening ; and here his wrath
once more grew hot against the man who had
come between them, for without vanity he
could feel that Louise had turned toward him
at one time, and that after a while the memory
of the trouble which had come upon them
would have grown more faint, and then she
would once more have listened to his suit.

But for that man — He ground his teeth
as he recalled Aunt Marguerite's hints and
smiles ; the allusions to the member of the
French haute noblesse; their own connection
with the blue blood of Gaul, and his own
plebeian descent in Aunt Marguerite's eyes.
And now that the French noble had arrived,

how noble he was in presence and in act.
Stealing clandestinely into the house during
the father's absence, forcing the woman he
professed to love into obedience by threats,
till she knelt at his feet as one who pleads for
mercy.

"And this is the haute noblesse!" cried
Leslie, with a mocking laugh. " Thank
Heaven, I am only a commoner after all."

He sat trying to compress his head with his
hands, for it ached as if it would split apart.
The cool night breeze came off the sea, moist
and bearing refreshment on its wings ; but
Duncan Leslie found no comfort in the deep
draught he drank. His head burned, his
heart felt on fire, and he gazed straight before
him into the blackness trying to make out his
path. What should he do ? Act like a man,
and cast her off as unworthy of a second
thought, or rouse himself to the manly and
forgiving part of seeking her out, dragging
her from this scoundrel, and placing her back
in her stricken father's arms ?

It was a hard fio4it, fought through the
darkness of that terrible night, as he sat thereon
the rock, with the wind sighing from off
the sea, and the dull, low boom of the waves
as they broke at the foot of the cliff far below.

It was a fight between love and despair,
between love and hate, between the spirit of
a true, honest man who loved once in his life,
and the cruel spirits of suspicion, jealousy, and
malignity, which tortured him with their suggestions
of Louise's love for one who had
tempted her to leave her father's home.

As the day approached the air grew colder,
but Duncan Leslie's brow still burned, and
his heart seemed on fire. The darkness grew
more dense, and the fight still raged.

What should he do ? The worse side of
his fallible human nature was growing the
stronger : and as he felt himself yielding, the
greater grew his misery and despair.

My darling ! " he groaned aloud, " I loved
you — I loved you with all my heart."

He started, alarmed at his own words, and
gazed wildly round as if expecting that someone
might have heard. But he was quite
alone, and all was so dark right away ahead.
Was there no such thing as hope for one
stricken as he 1 The answer to his wild,
mental appeal seemed to come from the far
east, for he suddenly became conscious of a
pale, pearly light which came from far down
where sea and sky were mingled to the sight.
That pale, soft light grew and grew, seeming

to slowly suffuse the eastern sky, till all at
once he caught sight of a fiery flake far on
high, of another, and another, till the whole
arc of heaven was ablaze with splendour, from
which the sea borrowed glistening dyes.

And as he gazed the tears rose to his eyes,
and seemed to quench the burning fire in his
brain, as a fragment which he had read floated
through his memory —

Joy cometh in the morning — joy cometh
in the morning."

Could joy ever again come to such a one ashe
? He asked the question half-bitterly, ashe
confessed that the dense blackness had
passed away, and that hope might still rise
upon his life, as he now saw that glittering
orb of light rise slowly above the sea, and
transform the glorious world with its golden
touch.

No, no," he groaned, as he rose to go on
at last to his desolate home. " I am broken
with the fight. I can do no more, and there
is no cure for such a blow as mine. Where
could I look for help ? "

"Yes; there," he said resignedly. "Ill
bear it like a man," and as he turned he rested
his hand upon the rough granite wall to gaze
down the path, and drew back with a curious

catching of the breath, as he saw the light
garments of a woman pass a great patch of the
black shall rock.

Madelaine Van Heldre was hurrying up the
cliff path towards where he had passed those
long hours of despair.

A Strange SUMMONS.

Madelaine Van Heldre closed the book
and sat by the little table gazing towards her
father's bed.

Since he had been sufficiently recovered she
had taken her father's task, and read the
chapter and prayers night and morning in
his bedroom — a little later on this night, for
George Vine had stayed longer than usual.

Madelaine sat looking across the chamber at
where her father lay back on his pillow with
his eyes closed, and her mother seated by the
bed's head holding his hand, the hand she had
kept in hers during the time she knelt and
ever since she had risen from her knees.

Incongruous thoughts come at the best of
times, and, with the tears standing in her
eyes, Madelaine thought of her many encounters
with Aunt Marguerite, and of the
spiteful words. She did not see why a Dutchman
should not be as good as a Frenchman,

but all the same there was a little of the love
of descent in her heart, and as she gazed at
the fine manly countenance on the pillow, with
its closely cut gray hair displaying the broad
forehead, and at the clipped and pointed beard
and moustache, turned quite white, she thought
to herself that if Aunt Vlaro-uerite could see

o

her father now she would not dare to argue
about his descent.

The veil of tears grew thicker in her eyes,
and one great drop fell with a faint pat upon
the cover of the Prayer-book as she thought
of the past, and that the love in her heart
would not be divided now. It would be all
for those before her, and help to make their
path happier to the end.

' And forgive us our trespasses as we forgive
them that trespass against us'" said Van
Heldre thoughtfully. " Grand words, wife —
grand words. Hah ! I feel wonderfully better
to-night. George Vine acted like a tonic.
I've lain here hours thinking that our old
companionship would end, but I feel at rest
now. His manner seemed to say that the
ole brotherly feeling would grow stronger, and
that the past was to be forgotten."

He stopped short, and a faint flush came
into his pale cheeks, for on opening his eyes

they had encountered the wistful look in
Madelaine's. He had not thought of her
sufferings, but now with a rush came the
memories of her confession to him of her
love for Harry on that day when she had
asked him to take the young man into his
office.

My darling ! " he said softly, as he held
out his arms ; and the next moment she was
folded sobbing to his heart.

No word was spoken till the nightly parting;
no word could have been spoken that would
have been more touching and soothing than
that embrace.

Then " Good-night ! " and Madelaine sought
the solitude of her own chamber, to sit by the
open window listening to the faintly heard
beat of the waves upon the bar at the mouth
of the harbour. Her spirit was low and the
hidden sorrow that she had fought hard to
keep down all through the past trouble had its
way for the time, till, at last wearied out, she
closed her window and went to bed. Still for
long enough it was not to sleep, but to think
of the old boy-and-girl days, when Harry was
merely thoughtless, and the better part of his
nature, his frank kindness and generosity, had
impressed her so that she had grown to love

him with increasing years, and in spite of
his follies that love still lay hidden in her
heart.

•'And always will be there," she said softly,
as she felt that the terrible end had been the
expiation, and with the thought that in the
future Harry Tine, forgiven, purified — the
Harry of the past — would always be now the
frank, manly youth she idealized, she dropped
off to sleep — a deep, restful slumber, from
which she started with the impression full
upon her that she had only just closed her
eyes. There must have been some noise to
awaken her, and she sat up listening, to see
that it was day.

Yes ? Did any one knock % " she said
aloud, for the terror was upon her now, one
which had often haunted her during the unnerving
past days — that her father had been
taken worse.

All silent.

Then a sharp pattering noise at her window,
as if some one had thrown up some shot or
pebbles. She hurried out of bed, and ran to
the window to peep through the slit beside
the blind, to see below in the street Liza, the
Vines' maid, staring up.

Louise— ill? or Mr. Vine?" thought

TOL. III. K

Madelaine, as she quickly unfastened and
opened the window.

Yes, Liza. Quick ! what is it ? "

Oh, miss, I've been awake all night, and,
not knowing what to do, and so I come
on."

"Is Mr. Vine ill?"

No, ? m ; Miss Louise."

111 ? I'll come on at once."

No, miss ; gone," whispered Liza hoarsely;
and in a blundering way she whispered all she
knew.

I'll come on and see Mr. Vine," said
Madelaine hastily, and Liza ran back, while
her blundering narrative, hastily delivered,
had naturally a confusing effect upon one just
awakened from sleep.

Louise gone, Mr. Leslie found bleeding,
Mr. Vine sitting alone in his room busy over
the mollusks in his aquaria ! It seemed impossible.
Aunt Marguerite hysterical. Everything
so strange.

No mention had been made of Uncle Luke
by the girl, nor yet of Leslie's departure.

Am I still dreaming ? " Madelaine asked
herself as she hastily dressed, " or has some
fresh terrible disaster come upon us ? "

Upon us," she said, for the two families

seemed so drawn together that one could not
suffer without thrilling the other's nerves.

u Louise gone ! It is impossible ! "

She said that again and again, trying all
the while to be cool and think out what were
best to be done. She felt that it would be
better not to alarm her father by waking him
at that early hour, and that she could not
arouse her mother without his knowing.

She was not long in deciding.

Uncle Luke had shown during the troubles
of the past how he could throw aside his
eccentricity and become a useful, helpful
counsellor, and it seemed the natural thing to
send a message up to him, and beg him to
come down. Better still, to save time, she
would run up there first.

Liza had not been gone a quarter of an hour
before Madelaine was well on her way, after
stealing silently out of the house.

The effort to be calm was unavailing, for a
wild fit of excitement was growing upon her,
and instead of walking up the steep cliff-path,
she nearly ran.

"Would Uncle Luke be at home ? He was
eccentric and strange in his habits, and perhaps
by that time out and away fishing off some
rocky point.

K 2

She scanned the rough pier by the harbour,
and shuddered as the scene of that horrible
night came back. But there was no sign of
the old man there, neither could she see him
farther away, and feeling hopeful that perhaps
she would be in time to catch him, she hurried
on, panting. As she turned a corner of the
devious way, and came in sight of the cottage,
with Leslie's house and mine chimney far up
at the back, she stopped short, breathless and
wondering and with a strange reaction at
work, suggesting that, after all, this was some
mythical invention on the part of the servant,
for there stood Duncan Leslie outside Uncle
Luke's cottage awaiting her coming;.

o o o

HER DEFENDER.

"Miss Van Heldre!"

"Mr. Leslie! That woman came to our

house this morning to say Oh, then, it

is not true ? "

Yes," he said slowly ; " it is all true."

True that — that you were hurt — that —
that Oh, pray speak ! Louise — Louise ! "

Gone ! " said Leslie hoarsely, and, sick at
heart and suffering, he leaned back against
the wall.

Gone ? Louise gone ? Gone where \ "

Leslie shook his head mournfully, and gazed
out to sea.

Why do you not speak ? " cried Madelaine.
"Can you not see how your silence troubles
me ? Mr. Leslie, what is the matter % You
were found hurt — and Louise — gone ! What
does it mean % "

He shook his head again.

Where is Mr. Luke Vine ? " cried Madelaine,
turning from him quickly.

"At the house."

"Then I have come here for nothing," she
cried agitatedly. "Mr. Leslie, pray, pray
speak."

He looked at her wistfully for a few
moments.

What am I to say ? " he said at last.

Tell me — everything."

He still remained retentive ; but there was
a grim smile full of pity and contempt for
himself upon his lips as he said coldly —

Monsieur De Ligny has been."

Monsieur De Ligny ? "

"The French gentleman, the member of
the haute noblesse who was to marry Miss
Vine."

Madelaine looked at him wonderingly.

Mr. Leslie," she said, laying her hand upon
his arm and believing that she saw delirium
in his eyes, consequent upon his injury, her
late experience having made her prone to
anticipate such a sequel. " Mr. Leslie, do you
know what you are saying ? "

Yes, perfectly," he said slowly. " Monsieur
De Ligny, the French gentleman of
whom Miss Marguerite so often talked to me,

came last night, while Mr. Vine was at your
father's, and he was persuading Louise to go
with him, when I interfered and said she
should not o-q till her father returned."

Yes ? — well I " said Madelaine, watching
him keenly.

Well, there was a stru^o-le, and I grot the
worst of it. That's all."

That is not all ! " cried Madelaine angrily.
Louise, what did she say ? "

Begged him — not to press her to go," he
said slowly and unwillingly, as if the words
were being; dragged out of him.

"Yes?"

"That is all," he said, still in the same
slow, half-dreamy way. " I heard no more.
When I came to the Vines were helping me,
and — ■ — "

Louise ? "

Louise was gone."

Mr. Leslie," said Madelaine gently, as ina
gentle, sympathetic way she laid her hand
upon his arm, " you seem to have been a
good deal hurt. I will not press you to speak.
I'm afraid you hardly know what you say.
This cannot be true."

Would to Heaven it were not ! " he cried
passionately. "You think I am wandering.

No, no, no ; I wish I could convince myself
that it was. She is gone — gone ! M

Gone ? Louise gone ? It cannot be."

Yes," he said bitterly ; " it is true. I
suppose when a man Once gets a strong hold
upon a woman's heart she is ready to be his
slave, and obey him to the end. I don't
know. I never won a woman's love."

"His slave — obey — but who — who is this
man \

"Monsieur De Ligny, I suppose. The
French nobleman."

Madelaine made a gesticulation with her
hands, as if throwing the idea aside.

"No, no, no," he said impatiently. "It
is impossible. De Ligny — De Ligny ? You
mean that Louise Vine, my dear friend, my
sister, was under the influence of some French
gentleman unknown to me ? "

Unknown to her father too," said Leslie
bitterly, "for he reviled me when I told him."

I cannot do that," said Madelaine firmly ;
but I tell you it is not true."

"As you will," he said coldly; " but I saw
her at his knees last night."

De Ligny — a French gentleman ? "

Yes."

I tell you it is impossible."

But she has gone," said Leslie coldly.

Gone 1 I cannot believe it. Mr. Vine ?
He knows where ? "

Leslie shook his head mournfully. " Some
secret love," he said.

Yes ; Louise did nurture a secret love,"
said Madelaine scornfully, " and for a man
unworthy of her."

"Poor girl!"

Yes : poor girl ! Shame upon you, Duncan
Leslie ! She may be gone for some good
reason, but it is not as you say and think.
Louise, my sister, my poor suffering friend,
carry on a clandestine intrigue with some
French gentleman ? It is not true."

Y r ou forget her aunt — the influence she
has had upon the poor girl."

I for-et everything; but the fact that
Louise loved yon, Duncan Leslie, with all her
heart."

Xo, no," he cried with an angry start.

I tell you it is true," cried Madelaine.
De Lio'nv ? — a French nobleman ? Absurd !
A fable invented by that poor old half-crazy
woman to irritate von and scare you away."

I might have thought so once, but after
what I saw last night "

M A jealous man surrounds all he sees with

a glamour of his own," cried Madelaine. " Oh,
where is your reason ? How could you be so
ready to believe it of the truest, sweetest girl
that ever lived ? "

But "

Don't speak to me," cried Madelaine,
angrily. " You know what that old woman is
with her wild ideas about birth and position.
Louise, deceive her father — coat me — elope !
Duncan Leslie, I did not think you could be
so weak."

I will not fight against your reproaches,"
he said, coldly.

No. Come with me. Let us go down
and see Uncle Luke."

But you really think " he faltered.

I really think ? " she cried, with her eyes
flashing. " Am I to lose all faith and confine



hence in you ? I tell you what you say is
impossible."

Her words, her manner sent flashes of hope
through the darkness that haunted Leslie's
spirit, and without a word he turned and
walked hurriedly down with her toward the
town till they reached the seat in the sheltered
niche where he had had that memorable conversation
with Aunt Marguerite.

There he paused, and pointed to the seat.

She sat there with me," he said bitterly,
and poured her poison into my ears till
under a smiling; face I felt half mad. I have
tried so hard to free myself from their effect,
but it has been hard — so hard. And last
night "

You saw something which shook your
confidence in Louise for the moment, but that
is all gone now*'

I think— I "

I vouch for niv friend's truth," said Madelaine
proudly. " I tell you that you have
been deceived."

Leslie was ghastly pale, and the injury he
had received and the mental agony of the
past night made him look ten years older, ashe
drew in a catching breath, and then said
hastily —

••Come on, and let us find out the truth."

AUNT MARGUERITE FINDS A FRIEND.

Uncle Luke met them at the garden gate,
and took Madelaine's hands in his, drawing
her toward him, and kissing her brow.

Tell me, Mr. Luke," she said quickly, "it
is not true ? "

What he says is not true, Maddy," said
the old man quietly.

But Louise ? "

Gone, my dear. Left here last night.
No," he continued, " we know nothing except
what her letter says. She has good reason for
what she has done, no doubt, but it is very
terrible for my brother."

Madelaine darted a triumphant look at
Leslie.

Look here, my child," said Uncle Luke,
I am uneasy about George. Go in and see
him, and if he says anything about Louie, you
will side with me and take her part ? "

Do you think I could believe it of Louise ? "
said Madelaine, proudly.

Uncle Luke held her hand in his, patting it
softly the while.

"No," he said, < : I don't think you could.
Go to him now. Tell him it will all be
cleared up some day, perhaps sooner than Ave
think."

Where is he ? " she said quietly.

In his study."

She nodded her head with a confident lookin
her eyes, crossed the hall, and tapped at
the study door.

Come in."

The words bidding her to enter were uttered
in so calm and matter-of-fact a way that
Madelaine felt startled, and Uncle Luke's
words, "I am uneasy about George," came
with a meaning they had not before possessed.

She entered, and stopped short, for there
before the open window, close to which was a
glass vessel full of water, stood George Vine,
busy with a microscope, by whose help he was
carefully examining the structure of some
minute organism, while one busy hand made
notes upon a sheet of paper at his side.

His face was from her, and he was so intent
upon his task that he did not turn his head.

Breakfast ? " he said quietly. " I shall
not have any. Yes," he added hastily ;
bring me a cup of tea, Liza — no sugar, and
a little dry toast."

A pang shot through Madelaine's heart, and
for a few moments she strove vainly to speak.

It is I, Mr. Vine," she faltered at last in a
voice she did not recognize as her own.

Madelaine, my child ! " he cried, starting
and dropping his pencil as he turned. " How
rude of me ! So intent upon this beautiful
preparation of mine here. Very, very glad
to see you," he continued, as he took her
hands in his. " How is your father this
morning ? "

I — I have not seen him this morning,"
faltered Madelaine as she gazed upon the pale,
lined face before her, to note the change
thereon, in spite of the unnatural calmness
which the old man had assumed ; " I — I came
on at once, as soon as I had heard."

He drew in a long breath as if her words
were cutting him. Then raising her hands to
his lips he kissed them tenderly.

Like you," he said gently, " like you, my
child. There, I have nothing to say, nothing
to hear."

But, dear Mr. Vine," cried Madelaine, as

she clung to him, and her tears fell fast, " I

am sure "

He smiled down at her lovingly, as he
kissed her hand again.

"Spare me, my child," he said. "Never
mention her name again."

"But, Mr. Vine "

Hush, my dear ! It is like you," he
whispered. " Good, gentle, and forgiving.
Let the whole of the past be dead."

But, Mr. Vine, Louise "

Hush ! " he said sternly. " There, come
and sit down and talk to me. No, my dear,
I had a nasty fainting attack last night, but
I am not mad. You need not fear that. Let
the past be dead, my child. Will you bring
me some tea \ "

Madelaine's face worked pitifully, as she
clung to him for a few moments, and then, ashe
resumed his place at the table, she felt
that the hour was not opportune, and turned
to leave the room.

At that moment there was a gentle tap at
the door.

See who that is, my child," said Vine,
quietly ; " and do not let me be interrupted.
If it is my brother, ask him not to speak tome
to-day."

Madelaine crossed quickly to the old man's
side, bent over him, and kissed his forehead,
before going to the door, to find Uncle Luke
waiting.

Maddy," he whispered, " tell my brother
that Margaret wants him to see her. Ask
him if she may come in."

Madelaine took the message, and felt startled
at the angry look in the old man's face.

No," he cried peremptorily. " I could not
bear to see her. Maddy, my darling, you are
almost like a daughter to me. You know all.
Tell her from me to keep to her room, I could
not trust myself to see her now."

Madelaine clung to him, with the tears
gathering in her eyes. From her earliest
childhood she had looked up to him as to
some near relative who had treated her ashe
had treated his own child — her companion,
Louise — and now as she saw the agony depicted
in his face, she suffered with him, and
in her womanly sympathy her tears still fell
fast.

"But, dear Mr. Vine," she whispered, "forgive
me for pressing you .at such a time, but
there is some mistake."

Yes," he said sternly ; and she shivered as
she saw how he was changed, and heard how

harsh his voice had grown. " Yes, Madelaine,
my child, there has been a terrible mistake
made by a weak, infatuated man, who
acted on impulse and never let his mind stray
from the hobby he pursued — mine."

Mr. Vine ! "

Hush, my child, I know. You are going
to say words that I could not bear to hear
now. I know what I have done, I see it too
plainly now. In my desire to play a kindly
brother's part, I let that of a father lapse, and
my punishment has come — doubly come."

If you would only let me speak," she
whispered.

Xot now — not now. I want strength first
to bear my punishment, to bear it patiently asa
man."

It seemed to be no time to argue and plead
her friend's cause, but she still clung to him.

Bear with me," he whispered. " I am
not going to reproach you for what you have
said. There, my dear, leave me now."

Madelaine sighed, and with her brow
wrinkled by the lines of care, she stood
watching the old man as he bent over his
microscope once more, and then softly left
the room.

Well ? " said Uncle Luke eagerly, as she

VOL. III. L

joined him in the hall. " What does he
say ? "

That he will not see her. That he could
not trust himself to meet her now'

Ah ! "

Madelaine started, and turned sharply round
as a piteous wail fell upon her ears.

Aunt Marguerite was standing within the
dining-room door, wringing her hands, and
looking wild and strange.

I can't bear it," she cried. " I can't bear
it. He thinks it is my fault. Go in and
tell him, Luke. He must not, he shall not
blame me."

Let him alone for a bit," said Luke
coldly.

But he thinks it is all my fault, I want
to tell him — I want him to know that it is no
fault of mine."

Can't convince him of impossibilities," said
Uncle Luke coldly.

And you think it, too ! " cried Aunt Marguerite
passionately. " I will see him."

Go up to your room and wait a bit.
That's the best advice I can give you."

"But George will "

Say things to you that will be rather
startling to your vain old brain, Madge, if

you force yourself upon him, and I'll take
care that you do not."

And this is my brother ! " cried Aunt
Marguerite indignantly.

Uncle Luke is right," said Madelaine
quietly, speaking of him as in the old girlish
days. " If I might advise you, Miss Vine."

"Miss Argue — No, no," cried the old
lady, hastily. " Miss Vine ; yes, Miss Vine.
You will help me, my child. I want my
brother to know that it is not my fault."

The old contemptuous manner was gone,
and she caught Madelaine's arm and pressed
it spasmodically with her bony fingers.

You could not go to Mr. Vine at a worse
time," said Madelaine. " He is suffering
acutely."

But if you come with me," whispered
Aunt Marguerite. " Oh, my child, I have
been very, very hard to you, but you will
not turn and trample on me now I am down.

I will help you all I can," said Madelaine
gravely ; "and I am helping you now in
advising you to wait."

I — I thought it was for me best," sobbed
the old lady piteously. " Hush ! don't speak
to me aloud. Mr. Leslie may hear."

She glanced sharply round to where Leslie

L 2

was standing with, his back to them, gazing
moodily from the window.

Yes ; Mr. Leslie may hear," said Made-lame
sadly, and then in spite of the long
years of dislike engendered by Aunt Marguerite's
treatment, she felt her heart stirred
by pity for the lonely, suffering old creature
upon whose head was being visited the sufferings
of the stricken household.

"Let me go with you to your room," she
said gently.

No, no ! " cried Aunt Marguerite, with a
frightened look. " You hate me too, and you
will join the others in condemning me. Let
me go to my brother now."

It would be madness," said Madelaine
gently ; and she tried to take the old woman's
hand, but at that last word, Aunt Marguerite
started from her, and stretched out her hands
to keep her off.

Don't say that," she said in a low voice,
and with a quick glance at her brother and
at Leslie, to see if they had heard. Then
catching Madelaine's hand, she whispered, " It
is such a horrible word. Luke said it to me
before you came. He said I must be mad,
and George might hear it and think so too."

Let me go with you to your room."

But — but," faltered the old woman, with
her lips quivering, and a wildly appealing lookin
her eyes, "you — you don't think that."

"So;' said Madelaine quietly; "I do not
think that."

Aunt Marguerite uttered a sigh full of relief.

I only think," continued Madelaine in her
matter-of-fact, straightforward way, " that you
have been very vain, prejudiced, and foolish,
but I am wrong to reproach you now."

No, no," whispered Aunt Marguerite, clinging
to her, and looking at her in an abject,
piteous way ; " you are quite right, my dear.
Come with me, talk to me, my child. I
deserve what you say, and — and I feel so
lonely now."

She glanced aofain at her brother and
Leslie, and her grasp of Madelaine's arm
grew painful.

"Yes," she whispered, with an excited look ;
"you are right, I must not ^o to him now.
Don't let them think that of me. I know —
I've been very — very foolish, but don't — don't
let them think that."

She drew Madelaine toward the door, and
in pursuance of her helpful role, the latter
went with her patiently, any resentment
which she might have felt toward her old

enemy, falling away at the pitiful signs of
abject misery and dread before her ; the
reigning idea in the old lady's mind now
being that her brothers would nurture some
plan to get rid of her, whose result would
be one at which she shuddered, as in her
heart of hearts she knew that if such extreme
measures were taken, her conduct for years
would give plenty of excuse.

HALF CONVERTED.

Well, Leslie," said Uncle Luke, as he-stood
gazing at the closed door through
which the two women had passed, " what
do you think of that ? "

Think of that ? " said Leslie absently.

Those two. Deadly enemies grown friends.
My sister will he adopting you directly, you
miserable, low-born Scotch pleb, without a
drop of noble French blood in your veins."

Poor old woman ! " said Leslie absently.

• : Ah, poor old woman! Margaret and I
ought to be shut up together in some private
asylum. Well, you have slept on all that ? "

No," said Leslie sadly. " I have not
slept."

'you're — well, I won't say what you are —
well ? "

■ Well?" said Leslie sadly.

'■'You have come to your senses T hope."

Had I lust them ? "

Pro tern., young man. And it is a usurpation
of our rights. One lunatic family is
enough in a town. We're all off our heads,
so you had better keep sane."

Leslie remained silently thinking over Made-lain
e's words.

Look here," said Uncle Luke, " I have
slept upon it, and I am cool."

What have you learned, sir ? "

Nothing but what I knew last night — at
present."

And what do you propose doing ? "

I propose trying to act as nearly like a
quite sensible man as one of my family can."

And Mr. Vine ? "

As much like a lunatic as he can. You
had better take his side and leave me alone.
He is of your opinion."

And you remain steadfast in yours ? "

Of course, sir. I've known my niece from
a child, as I told you last night ; and she
could not behave like a weak, foolish, brainless
girl, infatuated over some handsome
scoundrel."

But Miss Marguerite — have } r ou questioned
her ? "

Might as well question a weather-cock.
Knows nothing, or pretends she knows nothing.

There, I'm going to start at Once and see if I
cannot trace her out. While I'm gone I should
feel obliged if you would keep an eye on my
cottage ; one way and another there are quite
a couple of pounds' worth of things up yonder
which I should not like to have stolen. You
may as well come down here too, and see how
my brother is going on. Now then. I'll just
step down to Van Heldre's and say a word
before I start."

By what train shall you go ? "

'strain? Oh, yes, I had almost forgotten
trains. Hateful way of travelling, but saves
time. Must arrange to be driven over to
catch one at mid-day. Come and see me off."

"Yes," said Leslie, "I'll come and see you
off. What shall you take with you ? "

Tooth-brush and comb," grunted Uncle
Luke. " Dessay I shall find a bit of soap
somewhere. Now then, have you anything to
say before I go ? "

There is no occasion ; we can make our
plans as we go up."

"We?"

Yes ; I am going with you."

L uncle Luke smiled.

I knew you would," he said, quietly
chuckling.

You knew I should % Why did you think
that ? "

Because you're only a big boy after all,
Duncan, and show how fond you are of Louie
at every turn."

I am not ashamed to own that I loved
her," said the young man, bitterly.

Loved ? " said Uncle Luke, quietly.
Wonder what love's like, to make a man
such a goose. Don't be a sham, Leslie. You
always meant to go. You said to yourself,
when you thought ill of the poor girl, you
would go after her and try and break the
man's neck."

Not exactly, sir."

Well, something of the kind. And now
Maddy Van Heldre has been giving you a good
setting down, and showing you what a weak
baby you are "

Has Miss Van Heldre "

No, Miss Van Heldre has not said a word ;
but your face is as plain as a newspaper, and
I know what Maddy would say if anybody
attacked my niece. There, what's the use of
talking ? You will say with your lips that
Louise is nothing to you now, and that you
believe she has eloped with some French
scoundrel."

Leslie bit his lip and made an impatient
gesture.

"While that noble countenance of yours, of
which you are so proud, has painted upon it
love and trust and hope, and all the big-boy
nonsense in which young men indulge when
they think they are only a half, which needs
another half to make them complete."

I am not going to quarrel with you," said
Leslie, flushing angrily, all the same.

No, my boy, you are not. You are
coming with me, my unfortunate young hemisphere,
to try and find that other half to which
you shall some day be joined to make you a
complete little world of trouble of your own,
to roll slowly up the hill of life, hang on the
top for a few hours, and then roll rapidly down.
There, we have wasted time enough in talking,
and I'll hold off. Thank ye, though, Leslie,
you're a good fellow after all."

He held out his hand, which Leslie slowly
took, and Uncle Luke was shaking it warmly
as Madelaine re-entered the room.

Well," said the old man grimly, " have
you put the baby to bed ? "

Uncle Luke ! " said Madelaine imploringly;
pray be serious and help us."

li Serious, my girl ! I was never so serious

before. I only called Margaret a baby. So
she is in intellect, and a very troublesome and
mischievous one. Glad to see though that my
little matter-of-fact Dutch doll has got the
better of her. Why, Macldy, henceforth
you'll be able to lead her with a silken
string."

Uncle Luke dear — Louise," said Madelaine
imploringly.

Ah, to be sure, yes, Louise," said the old
man with his eyes twinkling mischievously.
Circumstances alter cases. Now look here,
you two. I'm only an old man, and of course
thoroughly in your confidence. Sort of respectable
go-between. Why shouldn't I try and
make you two happy ? "

Leslie bit his lip, and Madelaine gave the
old man an imploring look ; but in a mocking
way, he went on.

"Now suppose I say to you tw r o, what can
be better than for you to join hands — partners
for life you know, and "

Mr. Luke Vine ! " cried Leslie sternly,
setting aside the insult to me, is this gentlemanly,
to annoy Miss Van Held re with your
mocking, ill-chosen jokes ? "

Hark at the hot-blooded Scotchman,
Madly ; and look here how pleasantly and

patiently my little Dutch doll takes it, bless
her!"

He put his arm round Madelaine and held

her to his side.

Why, what are you ruffling up for in that

fashion ? Only a few minutes ago you were
swearing that you hated Louie, and that you
gave her up to the French nobleman — French
nobleman, Maddy ! — and I offer you a pleasant
anodyne for your sore heart — and a very pleasant
anodyne too, eh, Maddy ? Ah, don't —
don't cry — hang it all, girl, don't. I do hate
to see a woman with wet eyes. Now what
have you got to sob about ? "

Ts this helping us ? "

No, But Fm going; to, little one. I was
obliged to stick something into Leslie, here.
He is such a humbug. Swore he didn't care a
bit for Louie now, and that he believed everything
that was bad of her, and yet look at his
face."

It is impossible to quarrel with you, sir,"
said Leslie, with the look of a human mastiff.

Of course it is," cried Uncle Luke.
Well, Maddy, I've converted him. He sees
now that it's a puzzle we don't understand,
and he is coming up to town with me to solve
the problem."

I knew he would," cried Madelaine warmly.
Mr. Leslie, I am very, very glad."

Of course, you are ; and as soon as I bring
Louie back, and all is cleared, Leslie shall come
and congratulate us. D'ye hear, Leslie ? I'm
going to marry Madelaine. Marry her and
stop up in the churchyard afterwards," he said
with a grim smile full of piteous sadness.

Uncle Luke ! "

"Well, it's right enough, my dear. At my
time of life hardly worth while to make two
journeys up to the churchyard. So you could
leave me there and go back, and take possession
of my estate."

"Louise."

Ah, yes. I mustn't forget Louise," said the
old man. " Let's see — about Margaret. Leave
her all right ? "

Yes ; she is more calm now."

Did you question her, and get to know
anything ? "

"Nothing."

Humph ! " ejaculated the old man. " Close
as an oyster, or else she doesn't know anything."


"That is what I think," said Madelaine
eagerly.

Ah, well, we are only wasting time," said

Uncle Luke testily. " So now, Leslie, business.
First thing we have to do is to go up to
London. No : first thing, Maddy, is to run
on to your house, and tell them what we are
going to do. You'll have to stay here, my dear,
and look after those two. Comfort George all
you can; drive him with that silken thread
rein of yours, and keep a good tight curb over
Margaret. There, you'll manage them'

Yes. Tell them at home I think it better
to stay here now," said Madelaine earnestly.
You will send me every scrap of news ? "

Leslie and I are going to secure the wire
and ruin ourselves in telegrams. Beady,
Miner ? "

Yes."

Then come on."

Madelaine caught Leslie's extended hand,
and leaned towards him.

My life on it," she whispered, " Louise is
true."

He wrung her hand and hurried away.

(i Good-bye, Uncle Luke. Be happy about
them here ; and, mind, we are dying for
news."

Ah ! yes ; I know," he said testily ; and
he walked away — turned back, and caught
Madelaine to his breast. " Good-bye, Dutch

doll. God bless you, my darling," he said
huskily. " If I could only bring back poor
Harry too ! "

Madelaine stood wiping the tears from her
eyes as the old man hurried off after Leslie,
but she wiped another tear away as well, one
which rested on her cheek, a big salt tear that
ought almost to have been a fossil globule of
crystallized water and salt. It was the first
Uncle Luke had shed for fifty years.

A HARD TEST.

Harry, dear Harry ! " said Louise, as they
stood together in a shabbily-furnished room in
one of the streets off Tottenham Court Road,
I feel at times as if it would drive me mad.
Pray, pray let me write ! "

Not yet, I tell you ; not yet," he said
angrily. " Wait till we are across the Channel,
and then you shall."

But "

"Louie!" he half shouted at her, "have
some patience."

Patience, dear ? Think of our father s
agony of mind. He loves us."

"Then the joy of finding we are both alive
and well must compensate for what he suffers
now."

But you do not realize what must bethought
of me."

"Oh, yes, I do," he said bitterly; "but
you do not realize what would be thought of

VOL. III. M

me, if it were known that I was alive. I
shiver every time I meet a policeman. Can't
you see how I am placed ? "

Yes — yes," said Louise wearily ; " but at
times I can only think of our father — of
Madelaine — of Uncle Luke."

Hush ! " he cried with an irritable stamp
of the foot. " Have patience. Once we are
on the Continent I shall feel as if I could
breathe ; but this wretched dilatory way of
getting money worries me to death."

Then why not sell the jewels, and let
us go ? "

That's talking like a woman again. It's
very easy to talk about selling the jewels, and
it is easy to sell them if you go to some blackguard
who will take advantage of your needs
and give you next to nothing for them. But,

as Pradelle says "

Pradelle ! " ejaculated Louise, with a look
of dislike crossing her face.

Yes, Pradelle. That's right, speak ill of
the only friend we have. Why, we owe
everything to him. What could we have
clone ? Where could we have gone if it had
not been for him, and my finding out where
he was through asking at the old meeting-place?"


c: I clo not like Mr. Pradelle," said Louise
firmly.

Then you ought to," said Harry, as he
walked up and down the room like some
caged animal. (: As he says, if you go to
sell the things at a respectable place they'll
ask all manner of questions that it is not
convenient to answer, and we must not risk
detection by doing that."

Risk detection ? " said Louise, clasping
her hands about one knee as she gazed straight
before her.

"The people here are as suspicious of us
as can be, and the landlady seems ready to
ask questions every time we meet on the
stairs"'

Yes," said Louise in a sad, weary way ;
•'•' she is always asking questions."

But you do not answer them ? "

I — I hardly know what I have said, Harry.
She is so pertinacious."

We must leave here," said the young man
excitedly. " Why don't Pradelle come ? "

Do you expect him to-night ? "

'expect him ? Yes. I have only half-a-crown
left, and he has your gold chain to
pledge. He is to bring the money to-night.
I expected him before."

M 2

Harry, dear."

Well ? "

Do you think Mr. Pradelle is trustworthy
? "

As trustworthy as most people," said the
young man carelessly. " Yes, of course. He
is obliged to be."

But could you not pledge the things yourself
instead of trusting him ? "

No," he cried, with an impatient stamp.
You know how I tried and how the assistant
began to question and stare at me, till
I snatched the thing out of his hands and
hurried out of the shop. I'd sooner beg than
try to do it again."

Louise was silent for a few moments, and
sat gazing thoughtfully before her.

Let me write Harry, telling everything,
and asking my father to send us money."

Send for the police at once. There, open
the windows, and call the first one up that you
see pass. It will be the shortest way."

But I am sure, clear "

Once more, so am I. At the present
moment I am free. Let me have my liberty
to begin life over again honestly, repentantly,
and with the earnest desire to redeem the
past. Will you let me have that ? "

Of course — of course, dear."

Then say no more to me about communicating
with home."

Louise was silent again, beaten once more
by her brother's arguments in her desire to
see him redeem the past.

Harry," she said at last, after her brother
had been standing with his cheek pressed
against the window-pane, looking down the
street in search of the expected visitor.

Well ? "

Has it ever occurred to you that Mr.
Pradelle is trying to keep us here ? "

Absurd ! "

No : I feel sure it is so, and that he does
not want us to go away. Let me take my
bracelets and necklet to one of those places
where they buy jewellery or lend money."

You ? "

Yes. Why not \ "

Are you mad ? "

No. Why should I not sell what is my
own \ "

Can you not understand ? " cried Harry,
whose voice sounded harsh from the mental
irritation which had given him the look of
one in constant dread of arrest.

"No, dear, I cannot. I want to help you.

I want to get away from here — to remove you
from the influence of this man, so that we
may, if it must be so, get abroad and then set
them at rest."

Now you are bringing that up again," he
cried angrily.

I must, Harry, I must. I have been too
weak as it is ; but in the excitement of all
that trouble I seemed to be influenced by you
in all I did."

There, there, little sis," he said more
gently. " I ought not to speak so crossly, but
I am always on thorns, held back as I am for
want of a few paltry pounds."

Then let me go and dispose of these
things."

"It is impossible."

"No, dear, you think of the degradation.
I should not be ashamed. We have made a
false step, Harry, but if we must go on, let
me do what I can to help you. Let me go."

But the beggarly disgrace. You don't
know what you are going to undertake."

She looked at him with her frank, clear
eyes.

"I am going to help you. There can be
no disgrace in disposing of these trinkets for
you to escape."

All ! at last ! " cried Harry, leaving the
window to hurry to the door, regardless of
the look of dislike which came into his sister's
face.

Is that Mr. Pradelle '? " she said shrink -
ingle.

Yes, at last. No, Louie, I'm bad enough,
but I'm not going to send you to the pawnbroker's
while I stop hiding here, and it's all
right now."

Ah, Harry ! Day, Miss Louie," said Prae
entering, very fashionably dressed, and
with a rose in his buttonhole. " Nice weather,

1SH t It :

Look here, Vic," cried Harry, catching
him by the arm. " How much did you get ? "

Get ? "

Yes ; for the chain ! "

Oh, for the chain," said Pradelle, who
kept his eyes fixed on Louise. " Nothing, old
fellow."

Nothing ? "

11 Haven't taken it to the right place yet."

And you promised to. Look here, what
do you mean ? "

"What do I mean? Well, I like that.
Hear him, Miss Louie ? What a fellow he is !
Here have I got him into decent apartments,

where he is safe as the bank, when if he had
depended upon himself he would have taken
you to some slum where you would have been
stopped and the police have found you out."

"You promised to pledge those things forme."


Of course I did, and so I will. Why, if
you had been left to yourself, who would have
taken you in without a reference 1 "

Never mind that," said Harry, so angrily
that Louise rose, went to his side, and laid her
hand upon his arm. " If you don't want to
help me, say so."

If I don't want to help you ! Why, look
here, Miss Louie, I appeal to you. Haven't I
helped him again and again ? Haven't I lent
him money, and acted as a friend should ? "

Why haven't you pledged that chain % "
said Harry.

Because people are so suspicious, and I
was afraid. There, you have the truth."

I don't believe it," cried Harry, excitedly.

Well then, don't. Your sister will. If
you want me to bring the police on your track,
say so."

In a furtive way, he noted Harry's start of
dread, and went on.

Take the chain or a watch yourself, and

if the pawnbroker is suspicious, he'll either
detain it till you can give a good account of
how you came by it, or send for a policeman
to follow you to your lodgings."

But I am quite penniless ! " cried Harry.

Then why didn't you say so, old fellow ?
Long as I've got a pound you're welcome toit,
and always were. I'm not a fine-weather
friend, you know that. There you are,
two halves. That'll keep you going for a
week."

But I don't want to keep borrowing of
you," said Harry. " We have enough to do
what I want. A sovereign will do little more
than pay for these lodgings."

Enough for a day or two, old fellow, and
do for goodness' sake have a little more faith
in a man you have proved."

I have faith in you, Vie, and I'm very
grateful ; but this existence maddens me. I
want enough to get us across the Channel.
I must and will go."

Eight into the arms of those who are
searching for you. What a baby you are,
Harry ! Do you want to be told again that
every boat which starts for the Continent will
be watched ? "

Harry made a despairing gesture, and his

haggard countenance told plainly of the agony
suffered.

My dear Miss Louie," continued Travelled
pray help me to bring him to reason.
You must see that you are both safe here, and
that it is the wisest thing to wait patiently till
the worst of the pursuit is over."

We do not know that there is any pursuit,
Mr. Pradelle," said Louise coldly.

Come, I like that ! " cried Pradelle, in an
ill-used tone. " I thought I told you that they
were searching for you both. If you like to
believe that you can leave your home as you
did without your people making any search,
why you have a right to."

Harry began pacing the room, while Pradelle
went on in a low, pleading way —

Ever since Harry came to me, I thought I
had done all that a friend could, but if I can
do more, Miss Louie, you've only get to tell
me what, and it shall be done."

You've i done your best, Pray," said
Harry.

Yes, but you don't think it. I could go
and do all kinds of rash things ; but I've been
working to throw them off the scent, and I
don't think, so far, I've done amiss. You're
not taken yet."

Harry drew a long breath and glanced at
door and window, as if for a way of escape.

Come, that's better," cried Pradelle.
-; Take a more cheerful view of things. You
want change, Harry. You've been shut up
too much. Have a cigar," he continued,
drawing out his case. " No ? I beg your
pardon, Miss Louie. Oughtn't to ask him to
smoke here."

Harry shook his head impatiently.

Yes ; have one, old fellow. They're good.
Take two or three ; and, look here : go and
have a walk up and down for an hour. It's
getting dusk now."

Louise gave her brother an excited look,
which did not escape Pradelle. " Let's all
go," he said. " We might go along the back
streets as far as the park. Do you both
good."

"No, no," said Harry sharply. "I shall
not oho out."

Go together, then," said Pradelle, half
mockingly-'• I don't want to intrude ; but
for goodness' sake, man, try and have a little
change ; it would make life move different,
and you'd be more ready to take a friend's
advice."

What advice ? "

To settle down here. London's the best
place in the world for hiding yourself."

Don't talk to me any more, old fellow,"
said Harry. "I'm out of temper. I can't
help it." '

All right, lad. I'll go now ; and you get
him out, Miss Louie, do. It's the best thing
for him."

Harry made an impatient gesture, and threw
himself in a chair.

You shall do as you like, and I'll raise all
the money for you that I can," said Pradelle,
rising to go ; " but take things more coolly.
Gooch-bye, old boy."

Good-bye," said Harry, shaking hands
limply.

Good-bye," said Pradelle, as Harry turned
away to rest his aching head upon his hand.
"Miss Louie!"

He gave his head a jerk towards the door,
and Louise rose and followed him.

Come outside," he whispered. " I want
to speak to you."

Mr. Pradelle can say what he has to say
here."

But it's about him."

Well, Mr. Pradelle ? "

Well, Miss Louie, I only wanted to say

that some day you'll find out who is your true
friend. I want to help you both. I do, on my
honour."

Your honour ! " thought Louise.

Have a little more confidence in a manif
you can. I do want to help you. Goodbye."


He held out his hand, and she felt constrained
to give him hers, which he held, and,
after glancing hastily at Harry, raised to his
lips ; but the kiss he imprinted was on the
yielding air, for the hand was snatched indignantly
away.

You'll know me better by and by," said
Praclelle ; and giving her a peculiar look, he
left the room.

Louise stood for a few minutes gazing after
him, her brow knit and her eyes thoughtful.
Then, going back to where her brother sat with
his head resting upon his hand, she laid hers
upon his shoulder.

Harry, dear," she said firmly, " that man
is fighting against us."

Rubbish," he cried impatiently. " You
never liked Pradelle."

"Better for you if you had hated him.
Harry, he is striving to keep us here."

Nonsense ! Don't talk to me now."

I must, Harry. You must act, and
decisively."

What do you mean ? "

Either you must raise money at once, and
go right away from here "

He looked up sharply.

No, I do not mean that," she said sadly.
I will not leave you till you are fit to leave ;
but you must either act as I advise at once, or
I shall do what I think best."

What do you mean ? "

Write to our father to come and help us, for
you are too weak and broken down to protect
me.

Louie ! " he cried excitedly ; "lam not so
weak as you think. I will act ; I will take
your advice."

And get rid of this Mr. Pradelle ? "

Anything you like, Louie, only don't let
them know at home — yet, and don't leave
me. If you did I should break down at
once."

Then will you be guided by me ? "

"Yes."

And take these jewels yourself and raise
money ? "

Yes ; but it is too late now."

Louise glanced at the window, and in her

ignorance of such matters half felt the truth
of his words.

Then tomorrow you will do as I wish ? "
Yes, tomorrow," he said wearily.

Put not off until tomorrow " said

Louise softly to herself ; and she stood watching
her brother as he sat with bended head,
weak, broken, and despairing, in the gathering
gloom.

AN OLD FRIEND — OR ENEMY ?

Where shall we stay ? I'll show you,"
said Uncle Luke, after giving instructions to
the cabman. " My old hotel in Surrey Street.
Comfortable, motherly woman. No nonsense."


11 And what do you propose doing ? "

Let's hear first what you propose," shouted
the old man, so as to make his voice heard
above the rattle of the cab-windows — four-wheeler
Jehu's enemies, which lose him many
a fare.

I have nothing to propose," said Leslie
sadly ; " only to find her."

And I've given you twenty-four hours
to think it out, including last night at Plymouth."


My head is in a whirl, sir ; I am in no
condition to think. Pray suggest something."

Hah ! The old folks are useful, then, after

all. Well, then, you would like to hear my
plans ? "

Leslie nodded.

First, then, there is a good tea, with some
meat ; and while we are having that I shall
send off a messenger."

To find them ? "

No. Wait."

Leslie had found out that the best way to
deal with Uncle Luke was to treat him like
a conger-eel, such as they caught among the
rocks about Hakemouth. Once hooked, if the
fisher dragged at the line, the snaky monster
pulled and fought till the line cut into the
holder's hands, and sometimes was broken or
the hook torn out ; whereas, if instead of pulling,
the creature had its head given, it began
to swim up rapidly, and placed itself within
reach of the gaff. So, in spite of his fretful
irritation of mind, he allowed the old man to
have his own wav.

The result was, that before they sat down to
their meal at the quiet hotel, Uncle Luke wrote
a letter, which was dispatched by special
messenger, after which he ate heartily ; while
Leslie played with a cup of tea and a piece of
dry toast.

Not the way to do work," said Uncle Luke

Vol in. N

grimly. " Eat, man ; eat, Coal and coke to
make the human engine get up steam."

Leslie made an effort to obey, but everything
seemed distasteful, and he took refuge
behind a paper till the waiter entered with a
card.

Hah ! yes : show him in," said Uncle
Luke. " Here he is, Leslie," he continued.

Here who is ? "

"Perkins."

Parkins ? "

Sergeant Parkins. You remember ? "

Leslie had forgotten the name, but directly
after the whole scene of the search for Harry
came back as the quiet, decisive-looking detective
officer entered the room, nodded shortly
to both, and after taking the seat indicated,
looked inquiringly at Uncle Luke.

At your service, sir," he said. " You've
brought me some news about that affair down
yonder ? "

No," said Uncle Luke. " I have come to
see if you can help us in another way ; " and
he told him the object of his visit.

Hah ! " ejaculated their visitor. " Yes,
that's different, sir ; " and taking out a notebook,
he began to ask question after question
on points which seemed to him likely to be

useful, till he had gained all the information
he thought necessary, when he closed the book
with a snap, and buttoned it up in his breast.
Bather curious fact, sir," he said, looking
at both in turn; "but I've been thinking
about Hake mouth a good deal this last clay

or two."

"Why?" asked Uncle Luke shortly.

I've been away all over the Continent for
some time — forgery case, and that Hakemouth
business has gone no farther. As soon as I
got back, and was free, I wanted something todo,
so I said to myself that I'd take it on
again, and I have."

Oh, never mind that now," said Leslie
angrily. " Can you help us here ? "

c; I don't know, sir. I shall try ; but I
might mention to you that we think we
have obtained a clue to the gentleman who
escaped."

Yes, yes," said Leslie impatiently ; " but
can you help us here I "

Give me time, sir, and I'll do my best,"
said the sergeant. " Xot an easy task, sir,
you know. A needle is hard to find in a
bottle of hay, and all the clue you give me
is that a lady left your neighbourhood with
a French gentleman. Fortunately I did see

N 2

the lady, and should know her again. Good
morning."

But what are we to do ? " said Leslie
eagerly.

You, sir ? " said the sergeant quietly, and
with a suspicion of contempt in his tone.
Oh, you'd better wait."

"Wait!" cried Leslie, in a voice full of
suppressed rage.

And practise patience," muttered the man.
One moment, sir," he said aloud. " You
saw this French gentleman ? "

I saw him, but not his face. Mr. Vine
here told you ; the light was overturned."

But you saw his figure, the man's shape % "

Yes, of course."

And you heard his voice ? "

Yes."

Broken French ? "

Yes."

Now, sir, just think a moment. I have a
slight idea. French name — spoke "

We mentioned no name."

One minute, sir. Spoke French — brother's
fellow-clerk and intimate — gentleman who
went off — been staying at the house — longtime
in the lady's society. What do you say
now to its being this Mr. Pradelle ? "

Uncle Luke gave the table a thump which
made the tea-things rattle, and Leslie started
from his seat, gazing wildly at the officer, who
smiled rather triumphantly.

Great heavens ! " faltered Leslie, as if a
new light had flashed into his darkened mind.

Of course, sir, this is only a suggestion,"
said the sergeant. " It is all new to me, but
seems likely."

"No," said Uncle Luke emphatically, "no.
She would never have gone off with him."

Very wood, gentlemen. I'll see what I
can do at once."

One moment' said Leslie, as he slipped
some notes into the man s hand. " You will
spare neither time nor money."

I will not, sir."

"Tell me one thing. What shall you do
first I "

Just the opposite to what you've done,
gentlemen," said the officer.

What do you mean ? "

Go down to Hakemouth by to-night's
mail, and work back to town."

I feel certain," said Leslie, " that he
brought her to London to take tickets for
France."

I don't, sir, yet. But even if I did, ita

long bridge from here to Cornwall, and I
might find them resting in one of the recesses.
You leave it to me, sir. Good-day. Humph ! "
he added as he went out ; " plain as a pikestaff.
Women are womanly, and I have
known instances of a woman sticking to a
man for no reason whatever, except that he
was a scamp, and sometimes the greater the
scamp the tighter the tie. Pradelle's my man,
and I think I can put my thumb upon him
before long."

No, Leslie, no. Louie wouldn't look at
him. That's not the clue," said Uncle Luke.

THE Needle IX A BOTTLE OF HAY.

A WEEK of anxiety, with the breaks in it
of interviews with Sergeant Parkins, who had
very little to communicate ; but still that
little was cogent.

He had been down to Hakemouth, and by
careful inquiry had tracked the missing pair
to Plymouth, where he had missed them.
But, after the fashion of a huntsman, he made
long casts round and picked up the clue at
Exeter, where a porter remembered them from
what sounded like an altercation in a second-class
compartment, where a dark young lady
was in tears, and the "gent" who was with
her said something to her sharply in a foreign
too-ue. Pressed as to what it was like, he
said it sounded as if the gent said " Taisey."

There the sergeant had lost the clue ; but
he had learned enough to satisfy himself that
the fugitives had been making for London,

unless they had branched off at Bristol, which
was hardly likely.

Come up to London," said Leslie. " Well,
that is what we surmised before we applied
to you."

Exactly, sir ; but I have nearly made your
surmise a certainty."

Yes, nearly," said Leslie bitterly.

"We must have time, sir. A hunter does
not secure his game by rushing at it. He
stalks it."

Yes," said Uncle Luke in assent, " and
of course you must be certain. This is nota
criminal matter."

"No, sir, of course not," said the sergeant
dryly, and with a meaning in his tone which
the others did not detect.

If you are successful in finding their
whereabouts, mind that your task ends there.
You will give us due notice, and we will see
to the rest."

"Certainly, sir; and I have men on the
look out. The bottle of hay is being pretty
well tossed over, and some day I hope to seethe
shine of the needle among the puzzling
dry strands. Good morning."

Is that man a humbug, sir, or in
earnest ? "

Earnest;' replied Uncle Luke. " He proved
that before 3

If the occupants of the hotel room, which
seemed to Leslie like a prison, could have
read Sergeant Parkins' mind as he went away,
they would have thought him in deadly
earnest.

"Not a criminal case, gentlemen, eh?" he
said to himself. "If it is as I think, it is
very criminal indeed, and Mr. Pradelle will
find it so before he is much older. I haven't
forgotten the night on Hakemouth Pier, and

DO '

that poor boy's death, and I shan't feel very
happy till I've squared accounts with him, for
if he was not the starter of all that trouble I
am no judge of men."

PRADELLE IS PRICKED.

Seeing more and more that if an alteration
was to be made in their present position, the
change must come from her urging, Louise
attacked her brother soon after breakfast the
next morning. She was fully convinced that
Pradelle was determined to keep them in
London for reasons of his own — reasons the
bare thought of which brought an indignant
flush into her cheek ; and it was evident that
he was gaining greater influence over his old
companion, who was just now in the stage
when it would be easy for one of strong mind
to gain the mastery. This being so, Louise
determined that hers should be the strong
will, not Pradelle's. To this end she took
three or four of the most likely of her jewels,
making a point of carefully wrapping them up
and dwelling upon the task till she caught her
brother's attention.

What are you doing there ? " he said.

Getting ready some things upon which to
raise money."

He uttered an impatient ejaculation.

Leave them till Pradelle comes."

"Xo, Harry; either you or I must part
with these. Who is it to be ? "

"Let Pradelle take them."

No," she said firmly. " It is time that we
acted for ourselves. Will you go, or shall I ? "

But you heard what he said yesterday 1 "

Yes, and I do not believe it. Come,
Harry, for your own sake, for mine."

Yes. yes ; but wait."

You forced me into this compromising
position to help you escape from England."

"I could not help it."

I am not blaming you : I only say act, or
let me."

He started from his chair, and stood there
swayed by the various passions which pervaded
his spirit.

Harry."

I cannot do it."

"Then let me go."

Xo, no, no ! " he cried. " I am not so
lost to all manly feeling as that. Here, give
them to me, and let us get away."

"Yes," she said eagerly, "at once. You
will go, Harry, and let us cross to-night."

He nodded his head, and without another
word swept the jewels into his pocket, and
made towards the door. As he laid his hand
upon the lock he turned sharply and came
back.

"I'm like a curse to you, Louie," he said,
kissing her; "but I'm going to try, and you
shall guide me now."

She clung to him for a few moments, and
then loosened her grasp.

I shall be ready when you come back,"
she said. " We can pay these people, and it
will be like breathing afresh to get away."
Yes," he said. " But Pradelle ? "
"Is our enemy, Harry. Your evil genius."
"No, no ; he has been very kind."
For his own ends. There, go."
He went off without a word ; and after
making the few trifling preparations necessary,
Louise put on her hat and cloak, and
waited impatiently for her brother's return.
An hour passed, which seemed like two, and
then the blood mounted to her pale cheek, and
she crossed towards the door ready to admit
her brother, for there was a step upon the
stair. She glanced round to see if she had

forgotten anything, but there was nothing todo,
save to pay the landlady, and then they
would be free. She threw open the door as
the step paused on the landing, and then she
ran back with her lips apart, and a look of
repugnance and dread in her eyes.

"Mr. Pradelle!"

Yes, Miss Louie, me it is, and you don't
look best pleased to see me."

As she fell back he entered and closed the
door.

My brother is out, Mr. Pradelle."

He nodded, and stood smiling at her.

You can leave any message you wish for
him."

11 And go ? Exactly. Hah ! I should like to
make you think differently of me, Miss Louie.
You know I always loved "

Mr. Pradelle, I am alone here, and this
visit is an intrusion."

Intrusion ? Ah, how hard you do keep on
me ; but I'm patient as a man can be. What
a welcome to one who has come to serve
you ! I am only your brother's messenger,
Miss Louie. He has been and done that
business."

You know ? "

Of course I know. Harry is not so hard

upon me as you are. I have seen him, and he
sent me on here with a cab. He wants you to
join him."

"To join him ?"

Yes, at the station. He says it is not safe
to come back here, and you are to join him at
the waiting-room."

He sent that message by you ? "

Yes. It's all nonsense, of course, for I
think he has not so much cause to be alarmed.
There is a risk, but he magnifies it. You are
ready, so let's go on at once."

Why did not my brother return ? There
is the landlady to pay."

He lias commissioned me to do that. I
am going to see you both off, and if you'll
only say a kind word to me, Miss Louie, I
don't know but what I'll come with you."

Did my brother send that message to me,
Mr. Pradelle ? " said Louise, looking at him
fixedly.
• " Yes, and the cab's waiting at the door."

It is not true," said Louise firmly.

What ? "

I say, sir, it is not true. After what has
passed between us this morning, my brother
would not send such a message by you."

Well, if ever man had cause to be hurt I

have," cried Pradelle. " Why, you'll tell me
next that he didn't go out to pawn some of
your jewels."

Louise hesitated.

There, you see, I am right. He has taken
quite a scare, and aren't come back. Perhaps
you won't believe that. There, come along ;
we're wasting time."

"It is not true."

How can you be so foolish ! I tell you
I was to bring you along, and you must come
now. Hush ! don't talk, but come."

He caught her hand and drew it through
his arm so suddenly that, hesitating between
faith and doubt, she made no resistance ; and,
ready to blame herself now for her want of
trust, she was accompanying him towards the
door when it was opened quickly, aud their
way was blocked by Leslie and Uncle Luke.

Pradelle uttered an angry ejaculation, and
Louise shrank back speechless, her eyes dilated,
her lips apart, and a bewildering sense
of confusion robbing her of the power of
speech, as she realized to the full her position
in the sight of those who had sought her out.

Then he was right, Leslie," said Uncle
Luke slowly, as he looked from his niece to
Pradelle, and back.

Uncle ! " she cried in agony, " what are
you thinking ? "

That you are my niece — a woman," said
the old man coldly; "and that this is Mr.
Pradelle."

Uncle, dear uncle, let me explain," cried
Louise wildly, as she shivered at the look of
contempt cast upon her by Leslie.

The situation needs no explanation," said
Uncle Luke coldly.

Not a bit," said Pradelle with a half laugh.
Well, gentlemen, what do you want ? This
lady is under my protection. Please to let us
pass."

Yes," said Uncle Luke in the same coldly
sarcastic tone of voice, " you can pass, but, in
spite of everything, the lady stays with me."

No, sir, she goes with me," said Pradelle ina
blustering tone. " Come on," he whispered,
for Harry's sake."

No," said Uncle Luke. " I think we will
spare her the pain of seeing you arrested.
Mr. Pradelle, the police are on the stairs."

THE DOG BITES.

Pradelle started back as if he had been
stung.

Police ? " he said. " What do you mean ? "

What a man does mean, } 7 ou scoundrel,
when he talks about them — to give you into
custody."

It is not a criminal offence to elope with
a lady," said Pradelle, with a malicious look
at Leslie, who stood before the door with his
hands clenched.

Uncle ! " cried Louise, whose pale face
now flamed up as she glanced at Leslie, and
saw that he avoided her eyes.

You wait," he said. " I'll finish with this
fellow first, and end by taking you home."

But, uncle, let me explain."

You'll hold your tongue ! " cried Pradelle
sharply. " Think what you are going to do."

Yes, she can hold her tongue," cried
Uncle Luke, " while I settle our little business,

VOL. III. o

sir. Let me see. Ah ! I was always sure of
that."

Pradelle had thrust himself forward offensively,
and in a threatening manner so near
that the old man had only to dart out one
hand to seize him by the throat ; and quick as
lightning had drawn an old gold ring from
the scarf the young man wore.

What are you doing ? " roared Pradelle,
clenching his fist.

Taking possession of my own. Look here,
Leslie, my old signet-ring that scoundrel took
from a nail over my chimney-piece."

It's a lie, it's "

My crest, and enough by itself to justify
the police being called up."

A trick, a trumped-up charge," cried
Pradelle.

"You must prove that at the same time
you clear yourself of robbing Van Heldre."

I — I rob Van Heldre ! I swear I never
had a shilling of his money."

You were not coming away when I
knocked you down with old Crampton's ruler,
eh ? "

Pradelle shrank from the upraised stick, and
with an involuntary movement clapped his
hand to his head.

See that, Leslie ! " cried the old man with
a sneering laugh. "Yes, that was the place.
1 hit as hard as I could."

•'•' A trick, a trap ! Bah ! I'm not scared by
your threats. You stand aside, and let us
pass ! " cried Pradelle in a loud, bullying way,
as he tried to draw Louise toward the door ;
but she freed herself from his grasp.

No, no ! " she cried wildly, as with ears
and eyes on the strain she glanced at window
and door, and caught her uncle's arm.

Hah ! glad you have so much good sense
left. Nice scoundrel this to choose, my girl ! "

Uncle ! " she whispered, "you shall let me
explain."

I don't want to hear any explanation,"
cried the old man angrily. " I know quite
enough. Will you come home with me ? "

'■' Yes ! " she cried eagerly, and Leslie drew
a breath full of relief. " No ! "

The negative came like a cry of agony.

I cannot, uncle, I cannot."

i; I'll see about that," cried the old man.
"Now, Leslie, ask Sergeant Parkins to step
up here."

k ' Let him if he dares ! " cried Pradelle
fiercely.

: Oh, he dares," said Uncle Luke, smiling



Call him up, for it is a criminal case, after
all."

Stop ! " cried Pradelle, as Leslie laid his
hand upon the door.

Yes, stop — pray, pray stop ! " cried Louise
in agony ; and with a wild look of horror,
which stung Leslie with jealous rage. "Uncle,
you must not do this."

I'd do it if it was ten times as hard ! "
cried the old man.

What shall I say— what shall I do ? "
moaned Louise. " Uncle, uncle, pray don't
do this. You mast not send for the police.
Give me time to explain — to set you right."

Shame upon you ! " cried the old man
fiercely. " Defending such a scoundrel as
that ! "

No, no, uncle, I do not defend this man.
Listen to me ; you do not know what you are
doing."

Not know what I am doing ? Ah ! "

He turned from her in disgust, and with a
look of agony that thrilled him, she caught
Leslie's arm.

"You will listen to me, Mr. Leslie. You
must not, you shall not, call in the police."

He did not speak for the moment, but
stood hesitating as if yielding to her prayer ;

but the frown deepened upon his brow as he
loosened her grasp upon his arm.

"It is for your good," he said coldly, " to
save you from a man like that."

I must speak, I must speak ! " cried Louise,
and then she uttered a wail of horror and
shrank to her uncle's side.

For as she clung to Leslie, Pradelle, with
a bullying look, planted himself before the
door to arrest Leslie's progress, and then
shrank back as he saw the grim smile of
satisfaction upon the young Scot's face.

It was the work of moments, and the
'action seemed like to that of one of his own
country greyhounds. as Leslie dashed at him ;
there was the dull sound of a heavy blow, and
Pradelle went down with a crash in one corner
of the room.

Mr. Leslie ! Mr. Leslie ! for pity's sake
stay ! " cried Louise as she made for the door ;
but Uncle Luke caught her hand, and retained
it as the door swung; to.

Uncle, uncle ! " she moaned, " what have
you done \ "

Done ? " he cried. " You mad, infatuated
girl ! My duty to my brother and to
you.

"All right," said Pradelle, rising slowly.

"Let's have in the police then. I can clear
myself, I dare say."

"Mr. Pradelle, if you have a spark of
manliness in you, pray say no more," cried
Louise, as, snatching herself free, she ran to
him now.

Oh, I'm not going to be made a scapegoat
! " he cried savagely ; but as his eyes met
hers full of piteous appeal, his whole manner
changed, and he caught her hands in his.

Yes, I will," he whispered. " I'll bear it
all. It can't be for long, and I may get off.
Promise me "

He said the rest of the words with his lips
close to her ear.

"Your wife?" she faltered as she shrank
away and crossed to her uncle. " No, no,
no ! "

There was a sharp rap on the panel, the
door yielded, and Sergeant Parkins stepped in.

Mr. Pradelle, eh ? " he said with a grim
smile. " Glad to make your acquaintance, sir,
at last. You'll come quietly ? "

"Oh, yes, I'll come," said Pradelle. "I've
got an answer to the charge."

Of course you have, sir. Glad to hear
it. Sorry to put a stop to your pleasant little
game. Shall I ? "

There's no need," said Pradelle in answer
to a meaning gesticulation toward his wrists.
'•'I know how to behave like a gentleman."

"That's right," said the sergeant, who, with
a display of delicacy hardly to have been
expected in his triumph at having, as he
felt, had his prognostication fulfilled, carefully
abstained from even glancing at the trembling
girl, who stood there with agony and despair
painted on her face.

It ain't too late yet, Miss Louie," said
Pradelle, crossing towards her,

Keep that scoundrel back, Parkins," cried
Uncle Luke.

Pdght, sir. Now, Mr. Pradelle."

•• Stop a moment, can't you ?" shouted the
prisoner. " Miss Louie — to save him you'll
promise, and I'll be dumb. I swear I will."

Louise drew herself up as a piteous sigh
escaped her breast.

"No," she said firmly, "I cannot promise
that. Uncle dear, I have tried to save him to
the la-t. I can do no more."

"No," said the old man, "you can do no
more."

"Mr. Pradelle," she cried, "you will not be
so base I "

Will you promise ? " he cried.

No."

Then — here, just a minute. You, Mr.
Luke Vine, will you give me a word ? "

No," roared Uncle Luke. " Take him
away."

Then the sergeant here will," cried Prae
savagely. " Look here, sit down and
wait for a few minutes, and you can take
Harry Vine as well."

What do you mean ? " cried the sergeant
roughly.

Only that he has gone out to raise the
money for a bolt to France, and he'll be back
directly. Two birds with one stone."

Only a trick, sir' said the sergeant grimly.
Now, Mr. Pradelle, hansom or four-wheeler ?
I give you your choice."

Four-wheeler," said Pradelle, with a sneering
laugh.

My poor brother ! " moaned Louise, as
she made a clutch at the air, and then sank
fainting in her uncle's arms.

"You scoundrel! to speak like that," cried
Uncle Luke fiercely.

Here, what do you mean ? " said the
sergeant.

What I said. He wasn't drowned. Harry
was too clever for that."

Click — click '.

A pair of handcuffs were fastened to his
wrists with marvellous celerity, and lie was
swung into a chair.

;; I don't know whether this is a bit of
gammon, Mr. Pradelle " said the sergeant
sharply, ;i but I never lose a chance."

He paid not the slightest heed to the other
occupants of the room, but ran to the window,
threw it open, and called to some one below,
but only his last words were heard by those
inside.

Quick ! first one you see, and I'll give you
a shilliuo;."

The sergeant closed the window and crossed
to Pradelle.

If it's a trick it will do you no good.
You see, to begin with, it has brought you
those."

'■'I don't care," said. Pradelle, glowering at
Uncle Luke. "It will take some of the pride
out of him, and I shan't go alone."

It is a trick, sergeant. Take the scoundrel
away."

Mast make sure, sir. Sorry for the lady,
but she may have been deceived that horrible
night, and there's more in this than I can
understand. Your friend be long, sir I "

Mr. Leslie ? I expected him back with
you.

Mr. Leslie went on out into the street, sir.
Here, I have it. He has been in hiding down
your way, and came up with the lady there."

That's it, sergeant, you're a 'cute one," said
Pradelle with a laugh.

Who has been in hiding ? "

Your nephew, sir. I see it all now. What
a fool I've been."

% My nephew !— Not dead ? "

Harry — brother ! " moaned Louise. " I
could do no more. Ah ! "

Uncle Lake fell a-trembling as he caught
the half-insensible girl's hand, gazing wildly
at the sergeant the while.

"Look here, Pradelle, no more nonsense.
Will he come back ? "

If you keep quiet of course. Not if he
sees you."

Ah ! " ejaculated the sergeant, crossing to
the door as he heard a step ; and hurrying
out he returned directly with a constable in
uniform.

Stop ! " he said shortly, and he nodded to
the prisoner. " Very sorry, Mr. Vine, sir," he
then said ; " but you must stay here for a bit.
I am going down to wait outside."

But, Parkins ! " cried Uncle Luke, agitatedly,
" I cannot. If this is true — that
poor boy — no, no, he must not be taken

DOW.

Too late, sir, to talk like that," cried the
sergeant. "You stop there."

"Yes," said Pradelle, as the door closed on
the sergeant's retiring figure; "pleasant for
you. I always hated you for a sneering old
crab. It's your time to feel now."

Silence, you scoundrel !" cried Uncle Luke,
fiercely. " She's coming to."

L T uncle Luke was wrong, for Louise only
moaned slightly, and then relapsed into
insensibility, from which a doctor who was
fetched did not seem to recall her, and hour
after hour of patient watching followed, but
Harrv did not return.

The bird has been scared, sir," said
Parkins, entering the room at last. " I can't
ask you to stay longer. There's a cab at the
door to take the lady to your hotel."

But are you sure — that — my poor boy
lives ? "

Certain, sir, now. I've had his description
from the people down below. I shall have
him before to-night."

o

"Homme propose, mais "

Five minutes later Louise, quite insensible,
was being borne to the hotel ; Mr. PradaHe, to
an establishment offering similar advantages
as to bed and board, but with the freedom of
ingress and egress left out.

DIOGENES DISCOVERS.

Blame you, my dear ? No, no, of course
not. Then you knew nothing about it till that
night when he came to the window ? "

Oh no, uncle dear."

Louise started up excitedly from the couch
at the hotel upon which she was lying, while
the old man trotted up and down the room.

Now, now, now," he cried piteously, but
with exceeding tenderness, as he laid his hand
upon her brow, and pressed her back till her
head rested on the pillow. " Your head's
getting hot again, and the doctor said you
were not to be excited in any way. There,
let's talk about fishing, or sea-anemones, or
something else."

"• No, no, uncle dear, I must talk about this,
or I shall be worse."

Then for goodness' sake let's talk about
it," he said eagerly, as he took a chair by her
side and held her hand.

"You don't blame me then —-very much."

Well, say not very 'much ; but it's not
very pleasant to have a nephew who makes
one believe he's dead, and a niece who pretends
that she has bolted with a scampish
Frenchman."

Uncle, uncle," she cried piteously.

You see it has been a terrible upset forme,
while as to your poor father "

But, uncle, dear, what could I do ? "

Well, when you w r ere writing, you might
have said a little more."

I wrote what poor Harry forced me to
write. What else could I say ? "

You see, it has upset us all so terribly.
George — I mean your father — will never
forgive you."

But you do not put yourself in my place,
uncle. Think of how Harry was situated ;
think of his horror of being taken. Indeed,
he was half mad."

"No : quite, Louie; and you seem to have
caught the complaint."

I hardly knew what I did. It was like some
terrible dream. Harry frightened me then."

Enough to frighten any one, appearing
like a ghost at the window when we believed
he was dead."

I did not mean that, uncle. I mean that
he was in a terrible state of fever, and hardly
seemed accountable for his actions. I think I
should have felt obliged to go with him, even
if he had not been so determined."

Ah ! wed. you've talked about it quite
enough."

'•' No, no ; I must talk about it — about
Harry. Oh ! uncle ! uncle ! after all this
suffering for him to be taken after all ! The
horror ! the shame ! the disgrace ! You must
you shall save him ! "

"I'm going to try all I know, my darling;
but when once you have started the police
it's hard work to keep them back."

■•'How could you do it ? "

How could I do it "; " cried the old man
testily. " I didn't do it to find him, of course,
but to try and run you to earth. How could
I know that Harry was alive ? "

: But you will not let him be imprisoned.
Has he not suffered enough ? "

'■ Not more than he deserves to suffer, my
child ; but we must stop all that judge and
jury business somehow. Get Van Hcldre not
to prosecute."

"I will go down on my knees to him, and
stay at his feet till he promises to spare him —

poor foolish boy ! But, uncle, what are you
going to do ? You will not send word
down ? "

Not sand word ? Why, I sent to Madelaine
a couple of hours ago, while you lay
there insensible."
You sent ? "
Yes, a long telegram."
Uncle, what have you done ? "
What I ought to do, my child, and bade
her tell her father and mother, and then go
and break it gently to my brother."
Uncle ! "

There, there, my dear, you said I ought
to put myself in your place ; suppose you
put yourself in mine."

Yes, yes, uncle, dear ; I see now ; I
see."

Then try and be calm. You know how
these difficulties sometimes settle themselves."
Not such difficulties as these, uncle.
Harry ! my brother ! my poor brother ! "

Louie, my dear child ! " said the old man,
with a comical look of perplexity in his face,
have some pity on me."

My dearest uncle," she sobbed, as she
drew his face down to hers.

Yes," he said, kissing her ; " that's ail

very well, and affectionate, and nice ; but do
look here. You know how I live, and why I
live as I do."

Yes, uncle."

To save myself from worry and anxiety.
I am saving myself from trouble, am I not %
Here, let go of my hand, and I'll send off
another message to hasten your father up, so
as to set me free."

"No, uncle, dear, you will not leave me,"
she said, with a pleading look in her eyes.

"There you go !" he cried. "I wish you
wouldn't have so much faith in me, Louie.
You ought to know better ; but you always
would believe in me."

Yes, uncle, always," said Louise, as she
placed his hand upon her pillow, and her
cheek in his palm.

Well, all I can say is that it's a great
nuisance for me. But I'm glad I've found
you, my dear, all the same."

"rafter believing all manner of evil of me,
uncle."

"No, no, not quite so bad as that. There :
never mind what I thought. I found you
out, and just in the nick of time. I say,
where the dickens can Leslie be ? "

"Mr. Leslie!"

YuL. III. P

Louise raised her face, with an excited lookin
her eyes.

Well, why are you looking like that ? "

Tell me, uncle — was he very much hurt,
that night ? "

Nearly killed," said the old man grimly,
and with a furtive look at his niece.

Uncle ! "

Well, what of it ? He's nothing to you.
Good enough sort of fellow, but there are
thousands of better men in the world."

Louise's brow grew puckered, and a red
spot burned in each of her cheeks.

"Been very good and helped me. to find
you ; paid the detective to hunt you out."

Uncle ! surely you will not let Mr. Leslie
pay."

"Not let him? I did let him. He has
plenty of money, and I have none — handy."

But, uncle ! "

Oh ! it pleased him to pay. I don't know
why, though, unless, like all young men, he
wanted to make ducks and drakes of his cash."

Louise's brow seemed to grow more contracted.


Bit of a change for him to run up to
town. I suppose that's what made him come,"
continued the old man; "and now I've found

you, I suppose he feels free to go about where
he likes. I never liked him."

If Uncle Luke expected his niece to make
some reply he was mistaken, for Louise lay
back with her eyes half-closed, apparently
thinking deeply, till there was a tap at the
door.

"Hah! that's Leslie," cried the old man,
rising.

You will come back and tell me if there
is any news of Harry, uncle," whispered
Louise. Then, with an agonized look up at
him as she clung to his hands, " He will not
help them ? "

What, to capture that poor boy ? No, no.
Leslie must feel bitter against the man who
struck him down, but not so bad as that."

The knock was repeated before he could
free. his hands and cross the room.

'•' Yes, what is it % "

"That gentleman who has been to see

o

you before, sir," said the waiter, in a low
voice.

Not Mr. Leslie ? He has not returned ?"

"No, sir."

I'll come directly. Where is he ? "

In the coffee-room, sir."

Uncle Luke closed the door and recrossed

P 2

the room, to where Louise had half risen and
was gazing at him wildly.

News of Harry, uncle ? "

Don't know, my dear."

You are keeping it from me. That man
has taken him, and all this agony of suffering
has been in vain."

I'd give something if Madelaine were
here," said Uncle Luke. " No, no ; I am not
keeping back anything. I don't know anything
; I only came back to beg of you to becalm.
There, I promise you that you shall
know all."

Even the worst ? "

Even the worst."

Louise sank back, and the old man descended
to the coffee-room, to find Parkins impatiently
walking up and down.

Well ? "

No, sir ; no luck yet," said that officer.

What do you mean with your no luck ? "
cried Uncle Luke angrily. "You don't suppose
I want him found ? "

Perhaps not, sir, but I do. I never like
to undertake a job without carrying it through,
and I feel over this that I have been regularly
tricked."

What's that to me, sir ? "

Nothing, sir ; but to a man in my position,
with his character as a keen officer at stake,
a great deal. Mr. Leslie, sir. Has he been
back ? "

There, once for all, it's of no use for you to
come and question me, Parkins. I engaged
you to track out my niece ; you have succeeded,
and you may draw what I promised
you, and five-and-twenty guineas besides for
the sharp way in which you carried it out.
You have done your task, and I discharge
you. I belong to the enemy now."

"Yes, sir; but I have the other job to
finish., in which you did not instruct me."

Look here, Parkins," said Uncle Luke,
taking him by the lappet of his coat, " never
mind about the other business."

But I do, sir. Every man has some pride,
and mine is to succeed in every job I take in
hand."

"Ah! well, look here; you shall succeed.
You did your best over it, and well consider
it was the last act of the drama when my
foolish nephew jumped into the sea."

Oh, no, sir. I "

Wait a minute. AYhat a hurry you men
are in ! Now look here, Parkins. I'm only a
poor quiet country person, and I should be

sorry for you to think I tried to bribe you ;
but you've done your duty. Now go no
farther in this matter, and I'll sell out stock
to a hundred pounds, and you shall transfer
it to your name in the bank."

Parkins shook his head and frowned.

For a nest egg, man."

No, sir."

Then look here, my man ; this is a painful
family scandal, and I don't want it to go any
farther, for the sake of those who are suffering.
I'll make it two hundred."

No, sir ; no."

"Then two hundred and fifty; all clean
money, Parkins."

"Dirty money, sir, you mean," said the
sergeant quietly. " Look here, Mr. Luke
Vine, you are, as you say, a quiet country
gentleman, so I won't be angry with you.
You'll give me five hundred pounds to stop
this business and let your nephew get right
away ? "

Uncle Luke drew a Ions; breath.

Five hundred ! " he muttered. " Well, it
will come out of what I meant to leave him,
and I suppose he'll be very glad to give it to
escape."

"Do you understand me, sir? You'll

give me five hundred pounds to stop this
search ? "

Uncle Luke drew another long breath.

You're a dreadful scoundrel, Parkins, and
too much for me ; but yes : you shall have
the money."

Xo, sir, I'm not a dreadful scoundrel, or
I should make you pay me a thousand
pounds."

I wouldn't pay it — not a penny more than
five hundred."

"Yes, you would, sir; you'd pay me a
thousand for the sake of that sweet young
lady up-stairs. You'd pay me every shilling
you've got if I worked you, and in spite of
your shabby looks I believe you're pretty
warm."

Xever you mind my looks, sir, or my
warmth," cried Uncle Luke indignantly.
That matter is settled, then ? Five hundred
pounds 1 "

Thousand would be a nice bit of money fora
man like me to have put away against the
day I get a crack on the head or am shot by
some scoundrel. Nice thing for the wife and
my girl. Just about the same age as your
niece, sir."

That will do ; that will do," said Uncle

Luke stiffly. "The business is settled,
then."

No, sir ; not yet. I won't be gruff with
you, sir, because your motive's honest, and
I'm sorry to have to be hard at a time like
this."

"You dog!" snarled Uncle Luke; "you
have me down. Go on, worry me. Thereout
with it. I haven't long to live. Tell
me what I am to give you, and you shall
have it."

Your — hand, sir," cried the sergeant ; and
as it was unwillingly extended he gripped it
with tremendous force. " Your hand, sir, for
that of a fine, true-hearted English gentleman.
No, sir : I'm not to be bought at any price.
If I could do it I would, for the sake of that
poor broken-hearted girl ; but it isn't to be
done. I will not insult you, though, by
coming here to get information. Good-day,
sir; and you can write to me. Good-bye."

He gave Uncle Luke's hand a final wring,
and then, with a short nod, left the room.

Diogenes the second," said Uncle Luke,
with a dry, harsh laugh ; " and I've beaten
Diogenes the first, for he took a lantern to
find his honest man, and didn't find him. I
have found one without a light."

UNCLE LUKE TURNS Prophet.

li Why doesn't Leslie come ? " said Uncle
Luke impatiently, as lie rose from a nearly
untasted breakfast the next morning to £0
to the window of his private room in the
hotel and try to look up and down the street.
It's too bad of him. Here, what in the
world have I done to be condemned to such
a life as this ? "

'•' Life \ " he exclaimed after a contemptuous
stare at the grimy houses across the street.
Life ? I don't call this life ! What, an
existence ! Prison would be preferable."

He winced as the word prison occurred to
him, and began to think of Harry.

I can't understand it. Well, he's clever
enough at hiding, but it seems very cowardly
to leave his sister in the lurch. Thought
she was with me, I hope. Confound it, why
don't Leslie come ? "

Bah ! want of pluck ! " he cried, after

another glance from the window. " Tide
must be about right this week, and the bass
playing in that eddy off the point. Could
have fished there again now. Never seemed
to fancy it when I thought poor Harry was
drowned off it. Confound poor Harry ! He
has always been a nuisance. Now, I wonder
whether it would be possible to get communication
with him unknown to these police ? "

He took a walk up and down the room fora
few minutes.

Now that's where Leslie would be so useful
; and he keeps away. Because of Louie,
I suppose. Well, what is it ? Why have you
brought the breakfast back ? "

"The young lady said she was coming
down, sir," said the chambermaid, who had
entered with a tray.

Stuff and nonsense ! " cried the old man
angrily. " Go up and tell her she is not to
get up till the doctor has seen her, and not
then unless he gives her leave."

The maid gave her shoulders a slight shrug,
and turned to go, when the door opened, and,
looking very pale and hollow-eyed, Louise
entered.

Uncle Luke gave his foot an impatient
stamp.

Ci That's right," he cried ; " do all you canto
make yourself ill, and keep me a prisoner
in this black hole. Xo, no, my darling, I
didn't mean that. So you didn't like having
your breakfast alone ? That'll do ; set it
down."

The maid left the room, and Louise stood,
with her head resting on the old man's
breast.

Now tell me, uncle dear," she said in a
low voice, and without looking up, " has poor
Harry been taken ? "

"No."

"Hah!"

A long sigh of relief.

And Mr. Leslie 1 What does he say ? "

"I don't know. He has not been here
since he left with me yesterday."

And he calls himself our friend ! " cried
Louise, looking up with flushing face. " Uncle,
why does he not try and save Harry instead
of joining the cowardly pack who are hunting
him down ? "

"Come, I like that!" cried Uncle Luke.
I'd rather see you in a passion than down
as you were last night."

"I — I cannot help it, uncle; I can think
of only one thing — Harry."

And Mr. Leslie, and accuse him of hunting
Harry down."

Well, did he not do so ? Did he not come
with that dreadful man ? "

To try and save you from the French
scoundrel with whom he thought you had
eloped."

Oh, hush, uncle, dear. Now tell me, what
do you propose doing ? "

"Nothing."

"Uncle!"

That's the best policy. There, my darling,
I have done all I could this morning to help
the poor boy, but — I must be plain — the
police are in hot pursuit, and if I move a
step I am certain to be watched. Look
there ! "

He pointed down into the street.

That man on the other side is watching
this house, I'm sure, and if I go away I shall
be followed."

But while we are doing nothing, who
knows what may happen, dear ? "

Don't let's imagine things. Harry is
clever enough perhaps to get away, and now
he knows that wee have found out the truth,
you w r ill see that he is not long before he
writes. I want Leslie now. Depend upon

it the poor fellow felt that he would be che
trop), and has gone straight back home."

Louise uttered a sigh full of relief.

"you scared him away, my dear, and
perhaps it's for the best. He's a very stupid
fellow, and as obstinate — well, as a Scot."

But knowing Harry as he does, uncle,
and being; so much Younger than you are,
would it not be better if he were working
with you ? We must try and save poor Harry
from that dreadful fate."

Oh, I don't know," said Uncle Luke
slowly. " There, have some tea."

Then rising from his seat, he rang, and
going to the writing-table sat down ; and while
Louise made a miserable pretence of sipping
her tea, the old man wrote down something
and o-ave it to the waiter who entered.

o

Directly," he said ; and the man left the
room.

'•'Yes, on second thoughts you are quite
right, my dear."

Louise looked up at him inquiringly.

So I have telegraphed down to Hakemouth
for Leslie to come up directly."

Louise's eyes dilated, and she caught his
arm.

Xo, no," she whispered, "don't do that.

No ; you and I will do what is to be done.
Don't send to him, uncle, pray."

Too late, my dear ; the deed is done."

Just then the waiter re-entered.

Telegram, sir."

Louise turned if possible more pale.

"Tut— tut!" whispered Uncle Luke. "It
can't be an answer back. Hah ! from Madelaine."


Your news seems too great to be true. Mr.
George Vine started for town by the first train
t/tis morning. My father regrets his helplessness!'


Hah ! Come. That's very business-like
of George," said the old man. " Louie, my
dear, I'm going to turn prophet. All this
trouble is certain to turn in the right direction
after all. Why, my child ! "

She had sunk back in her chair with the
cold, dank dew of suffering gathering upon
her forehead, and a piteous look of agony in
her eyes.

How can I meet him now ! "

The terrible hours of agony that had been
hers during the past month had so shattered
the poor girl's nerves, that even this meeting
seemed more than she could bear, and it called
forth all the old man's efforts to convince her

that she had nothing to fear, but rather everything
to desire.

It was a weary and a painful time though
before Louise was set at rest.

She was seated in the darkening room,
holding tightly by the old man's hand, as a
frightened child might in dread of punishment.
As the hours had passed she had
been starting at every sound, trembling as
the hollow rumbling; of cab-wheels came alone
the street, and when by chance a carriage
stopped at the hotel her aspect was pitiable.

"I cannot help it," she whispered. "All
through these terrible troubles I seem to
have been strong, while now I am so weak
and unstrung — uncle, I shall never be myself
again."

"Yes, and stronger than ever. Come, little
woman, how often have you heard or read of
people suffering from nervous reaction and —
Thank God ! " he muttered, as he saw the
door softly open behind his niece's chair, and
his brother stand in the doorway.

I did not catch what you said, dear," said
Louise feebly, as she lay back with her eyes
closed.

Uncle Luke gave his brother a meaning look,
and laid his niece's hand back upon her knees.

No ; it's very hard to make one's self
heard in this noisy place. I was only saying,
my dear, that-your nerves have been
terribly upset, and that you are suffering
from the shock. You feel now afraid to
meet your father lest he should reproach
you, and you can only think of him as being
bitter and angry against you for going away,
as you did ; but when he thoroughly grasps
the situation, and how you acted as you did
to save your brother from arrest, and all as
it were in the wild excitement of that time,
and under pressure "

Don't leave me, uncle."

"No, no, my dear. Only going to walk
up and down," said the old man as he left
his chair. " When he grasps all this, and
your dread of Harry's arrest, and that it was
all nonsense — there, lie back still, it is more
restful so. That's better," he said, kissing
her, and drawing away. " When, I say, he
fully knows that it was all nonsense due to
confounded Aunt Margaret and her noble
Frenchmen, and that instead of an elopement
with some scoundrel, you were only
performing a sisterly duty, he'll take you in
his arms "

Uncle Luke was on the far side of the

room now, and in obedience to his signs, and
trembling violently, George Vine had gone
slowly towards the vacated seat.

You think he will, uncle, and forgive
me ? " she faltered, as she lay back still with
her eyes closed.

Think, my darling ? I'm sure of it. Yes,
he'll take you in his arms."

A quiet sigh.

"And say "

George Vine sank trembling into the empty
chair.

Forgive me, my child, for ever doubting
you."

"Oh, no, uncle."

And I say, yes ; and thank God for giving
me my darling back once more."

Forgive me ! Thank God for giving me
my darling back once more ! Louise ! "

Father ! "

A wild, sobbing cry, as they two were
locked in each other's arms.

At that moment the door was closed softly,
and Uncle Luke stood blowing his nose outside
upon the mat.

Nearly seventy, and sobbing like a child,"
he muttered softly. "Dear me, what an old
fool T am ! "

VOL. III. Q

LESLIE MAKES AN ANNOUNCEMENT.

It was a week before the London doctor
said that Louise Vine might undertake the
journey down home, but when it was talked
of she looked up at her father in a troubled
way.

"It would be better, my darling," he
whispered. " You shrink from going back to
the old place. Why should you, where there
will be nothing but love and commiseration ? "

"It is not that," she said sadly. " Harry ! "

Yes ! But we can do no more by staying
here."

"Not a bit," said Uncle Luke. "Let's
get down to the old sea-shore again, Louie.
If we stop here much longer I shall die.
Harry's safe enough somewhere. Let's go
home."

Louise made no more opposition, and it
was decided that they should start at once,

but the journey had to be deferred on account
of business connected with Pradelle's
examination.

This was not talked of at the hotel, and
Louise remained in ignorance of a great deal
of what took place before they w T ere free to
depart.

That journey down was full of painful
memories for Louise, and it was all she could
do to restrain her tears as the train stopped
at the station, which was associated in her
mind with her brother, and ao-ain and again
she seemed to see opposite to her, shrinking
back in the corner by the window nearest
the platform, the wild, haggard eyes and the
frightened furtive look at every passenger that
entered the carriage.

The journey seemed interminable, and even
when Plymouth had been reached there was
still the long slow ride over the great wooden
bridges with the gurgling streams far down in
the little rock ravines.

Hah ! " said Uncle Luke cheerily, " one
begins to breathe now. Look."

He pointed to the shadow of the railway
train plainly seen against the woods, for the
full round moon was rising slowly.

This is better than a gas-lamp shadow,

Q 2

eh, and you don't get such a moon as that in
town. I've lost count, George. How are the
tides this week ? "

Vine shook his head.

"No, you never did know anything about
the tides, George. Always did get cut off.
Be drowned some day, shut in under a cliff ;
and you can't climb."

They rode on in silence for some time,
watching the moonlight effect on the patches
of wood in the dark hollows, the rocky hill-slopes,
and upon one or another of the gaunt
deserted engine-houses looking like the towers
of ruined churches high up on the hills, here
black, and there glittering in the moonlight,
as they stood out against the sky.

These traces of the peculiar industry of
the district had a peculiar fascination for
Louise, who found herself constantly comparing
these buildings with one beyond their
house overlooking the beautiful bay. There
it seemed to stand out bold and picturesque,
with the long shaft running snake-like up
the steep hillside, to end in the perpendicular
monument dike chimney that formed the landmark
by which the sailors set vessels' heads
for the harbour.

But that place did not seem deserted as

these. At any time when she looked she
could picture the slowly-moving beam of the
huge engine, and the feathery plume of gray
smoke which floated away on the western
breeze. There was a bright look about the
place, and always associated with it she
seemed to see Duncan Leslie, now looking
appealingly in her eyes, now bitter and stern
as he looked on her that night when Harry
beat him down and they fled, leaving him
insensible upon the floor.
What mio'ht have been !

o

That was the theme upon which her busy
brain toiled in spite of her efforts to divert
the current of thought into another channel.
And when in despair she conversed with
father or uncle for a few minutes, and silence
once more reigned, there still was Duncan
Leslie's home, and its owner gazing at her
reproachfully.

"Impossible!" she always said to herself;
and as often as she said this she felt that
there would be a terrible battle with self, for
imperceptibly there had grown to be a subtle
advocate for Duncan Leslie in her heart.

'■'But it is impossible," she always said,
and emphasized it. " We are disgraced.
With such a shadow over our house that

could never be ; and he doubted, he spoke so
cruelly, his eyes flashed such jealous hatred.
If he had loved me, he would have trusted,
no matter what befell."

But as she said all this to herself, the
advocate was busy, and she felt the weakness
of her case, but grew more determinedly
obstinate all the same.

And the train glided on over the tall
scaffold-like bridges, the tree-tops glistened
in the silvery moonlight, and there was a
restful feeling of calm in her spirit that she
had not known for days.

No place like home," said Uncle Luke,
breaking a long silence as they glided away
from the last station.

No place like home," echoed his brother,
as he sought for and took his child's hand.
You will stop with us to-night, Luke ? "

Hear him, Louie ? " said the old man.
Now is it likely ? "

But your place will be cheerless and bare
to-night."

Cheerless ! Bare ! You don't know what
you are talking about. If you only knew
the longing I have to be once more in my
own bed, listening to wind and sea. No,
thank you."

But, uncle, for to-night do stay."

"Now that's unkind, Louie, after all the
time you've made me be away. Well, I will,
as a reward to you /or rousing yourself up a
bit. One condition though ; will you comedown
tomorrow and talk to me while I fish ? "

She remained silent.

"Then I don't stop to-night."

I will come tomorrow, uncle."

Then I'll stop."

The train glided on as they watched in
silence now for the lights of the little town.
First, the ruddy glow of the great lamp on
the east pier of the harbour appeared ; then,
glittering faintly like stars, there were the
various lights of the town rising from the
water's edge right up to the high terrace
level, with the old granite house — the erst
peaceful, calm old home.

The lights glittered brightly, but they
looked dim to Louise, seen as they were
through a veil of tears, and now as they
rapidly neared a strange feeling of agitation
filled the brain of the returned wanderer.

It was home, but it could never be the
same home again. All would be changed.
A feeling of separation must arise between her
and Madelaine. The two families must live

apart, and a dark rift in her life grow wider
as the time glided on, till she was farther and
farther away from the bright days of youth,
with little to look forward to but sorrow and
the memory of the shadow hanging over their
home.

Here we are," cried Uncle Luke, as the
train glided slowly alongside the platform and
then stopped. " Got all your traps ? George,
give me my stick. Now, then, you first."

The station lamps were burning brightly as
Louise gave her father her hand and stepped
out. Then she felt blind and troubled with a
strange feeling of dread, and for a few moments
everything seemed to swim round as a strange
singing filled her ears.

Then there was a faint ejaculation, two
warm soft arms clasped her, and a well-known
voice said, in a loving whisper,

Louise — sister — at last ! "

For one moment the dark veil over her eyes
seemed to lift, and like a flash she realized
that Madelaine was not in black, and that
resting upon a stick there was a pale face
which lit up with smiles as its owner clasped
her to his breast in turn.

"My dearest child! welcome back. The
place is not the same without you."

Louie, my darling ! " in another pleasant
voice, as kisses were rained upon her cheek,
and there was another suggestion of rain
which left its marks warm.

He would come, George Vine ; " and the
giver of these last kisses, and warm tears, did
battle for the possession of the returned truant.
Maddy, my dear," she cried reproachfully
and in a loud parenthesis, "let me have one
hand. He ought not to have left the house,
but he is so determined. He would come."

Well, Dutch doll, don't I deserve a kiss ?"
cried old Luke grimly.

Dear Uncle Luke ! "

Hah, that's better. George, I think I
shall go home with the Van Heldres. I'm
starving."

But you can't," cried the lady of that
house in dismay; "we are all coming up to
you. Ah, Mr. Leslie, how do you do % "

"Quite well," said that personage quietly ;
and Madelaine felt Louise's hand close upon
hers spasmodically.

Leslie ! you here ? " said George Vine
eagerly.

Yes ; I came down from town in the same
train."

Too proud to be seen with us, eh ? " said

Uncle Luke sarcastically, as there was a warm
salute from the Van Heldres to one as great a
stranger as the Vines.

I thought it would be more delicate to let
you come down alone," said Leslie gravely.

George Vine had by this time got hold of
the young man's hand.

My boy — Harry ? " he whispered, " have
you any news ? "

"Yes," was whispered back. "Let me set
your mind at rest. He is safe."

But where ? For Heaven's sake, man,
speak ! " panted the trembling father as he
clung to him.

"Across the sea."

harry's message.

Do 3 r ou wish me to repeat it ? Have you
not heard from your father or your uncle ? "

Yes ; but I want to hear it all again from
you. Harry sent me some message."

Leslie was silent.

Why do you not speak ? You are keeping
something back."

Yes ; he gave me a message for you, one
I was to deliver."

Well," said Louise quickly, " why do you
not deliver it \ "

"Because Harry is, in spite of his trouble,
still young and thoughtless. It is a message
that would make you more bitter against me
than you are now."

Louise rose from where she was seated in
the dining-room, walked across to the bay
window, looked out upon the sea, and then
returned.

"I am not bitter against you, Mr. Leslie.
How could I be against one who has served us
so well ? But tell me my brother's message
now."

He looked at her with so deep a sense of
passionate longing in his eyes, that as she met
his ardent gaze her eyes sank, and her colour
began to heighten.

No," he said, " I cannot deliver the message
now. Some clay, when time has worked
its changes, I will tell you word for word. Be
satisfied when I assure you that your brother's
message will not affect his position in the least,
and will be better told later on."

She looked at him half wonderingly, and
it seemed to him that there was doubt in her
eyes.

Can you not have faith in me," he said
quietly, " and believe when I tell you that it
is better that I should not speak ? "

Yes," she said softly, " I will have faith
in you and wait."

I thank you," he said gravely.

"Now tell me more about Harry."

There is very little to tell," replied Leslie.
"As I went down-stairs that day, I found him
just about to enter the house. For a moment
I was startled, but I am not a superstitious

man, and I grasped at once how we had all
been deceived, and who it was dealt me the
blow and tripped me that night ; and in the
reaction which came upon me, I seized him,
and dragged him to the first cab I could find.

I was half-mad with delight," continued
Leslie, speaking, in spite of his burning words,
in a slow, calm, respectful way. " I saw how
I had been deceived that night, who had been
your companion, and why you had kept silence.
For the time I hardly knew what I did or said
in my delirious joy, but I was brought to
myself, as I sat holding your brother's wrist
tightly, by his saying slowly,

u ' There, I'm sick of it. You can leave go.
I shan't try to get away. It's all over now.' '

He thought you had made him a prisoner
{

Yes ; and I thought him a messenger of
peace, who had come to point out my folly,
weakness, and want of faith."

Louise covered her face with her hands, and
he saw that she w r as sobbing gently.

It was some time before I could speak,"
continued Leslie. " I w 7 as still holding his
wrist tightly, and it w T as not until he spoke
again that I felt as if I could explain.

' Where are you taking me ? ' he said.

'Is it necessary for Mr. Leslie, my fathers
friend, to play policeman in the case ? '

' When will you learn to believe and trust
in me, Harry Vine ? ' I said.

' Never he replied bitterly, and in the
gladness of my heart I laughed, and could
have taken him in my arms and embraced him
as one would a lost brother just returned to us
from the dead.

' You will repent that,' I said, and I felt
then that my course was marked out, and I
could see my way."

Louise let fall her hands, and sank into a
chair, her eyes dilating as she gazed earnestly
at the quiet, enduring man, who now narrated
to her much that was new ; and ever as he
spoke something in her brain seemed to keep
on repeating in a low and constant repetition,

He loves me — he loves me — but it can
never be."

' Where am I taking you ? ' I said' continued
Leslie. " ' To where you can make a
fresh start in life.' " And as Louise gazed at
him she saw that he was looking fixedly at
the spot upon the carpet where her brother
had last stood when he was in that room.

« < Not to '

He stopped short there ; and I Yes,

and I must stop short too. It is very absurd,
Miss Vine, for me to be asked all this."

Go on — go on ! " said Louise hoarsely.

Leslie glanced at her, and withdrew his
eyes.

' Will you go abroad, Harry, and make a
new beginning; V I said.

Poor lad ! he was utterly broken down,
and he would have thrown himself upon his
knees to me if I had not forced him to keep
his seat."

My brother ! " sighed Louise.

I asked him then if he would be willing
to leave you all, and go right away ; and I told
him what I proposed — that I had a brother
superintending some large tin-mines north of
Malacca. That I would give him such letters
as would insure a welcome, and telegraph his
coming under an assumed name."

And he accepted ? "

"Yes. There, I have nothing to add to all
this. I went across with him to Paris, and,
after securing a berth for him, we went south
to Marseilles, where I saw him on board one
of the Messageries Maritimes vessels bound for
the East, and we parted. That is all."

But money ; necessaries, Mr. Leslie ? He
was penniless."

Oh, no," said Leslie, smiling ; and Louise
pressed her teeth upon her quivering lip.

There," said Leslie, " I would not have
said all this, but you forced it from me ; and
now you know all, try to be at rest. As I
told Mr. Vine last night, I suppose it would
mean trouble with the authorities if it were
known, but I think I was justified in what I
did. We understand Harry's nature better
than any judge, and our plan for bringing
him back to his life as your brother is better
than theirs. So," he went on with a pleasant
smile, " we will keep our secret about him.
My brother Dick is one of the truest fellows
that ever stepped, and Harry is sure to like
him. The climate is not bad. It will be a
complete change of existence, and some day
when all this trouble is forgotten he can
return."

My brother exiled : gone for ever."

"My dear Miss Vine," said Leslie quietly,
the world has so changed now that we can
smile at all those old-fashioned ideas. Your
brother is in Malacca. Well, I cannot speak
exactly, but I believe I am justified in saying
that you could send a message to him from
this place in Cornwall, and get an answer by
tomorrow morning at the farthest, perhaps

to-night. Your father at one time could not
have obtained one from Exeter in the same
space.

There," he continued quietly, " you are
agitated now, and I will say good-bye. Is
not that Madelaine Van Heldre coming up
the path ? Yes, unmistakably. Now let us
bury the past and look forward to the future
a happier one for you, I hope and pray.
Good-bye."

He held out his hand, and she looked at
him wonderingly.

good-bye?"

Well, for a time. You are weak and ill.
Perhaps you will go away for a change —
perhaps I shall. Next time we meet, time
will have softened all this trouble, and you
will have forgiven one whose wish was to
serve you, all his weakness, all his doubts.
Good bless you, Louise Vine! Good-bye!"

He held out his hand again, but she did not
take it. She only stood gazing wildly at him
in a way that he dared not interpret, speechless,
pale, and with her lips quivering.

He gave her one long, yearning look, and,
turning quickly, he was at the door.

"Mr. Leslie— stop ! "

'•' You wished to say something," he cried as

VOL. III. R

he turned towards her and caught her outstretched
hand to raise it passionately to his
lips. " You do not, you cannot say it ? I
will say it for you, then. Good-bye ! "

Stop ! " she cried as she clung to his hand.
My brother's message ? "

Some day — in the future. I dare not
give it now. When you have forgiven my
jealous doubts."

Forgiven you ? " she whispered as she sank
upon her knees and held the hand she clasped
to her cheek — " forgive me."

Louise ! my darling ! " he cried hoarsely ashe
caught her up to his breast, upon which she
lay as one lies who feels at peace.

Seconds ? minutes ? Neither knew ; but
after a time, as she stood with her hands upon
his shoulders gazing calmly in his eyes, she
said softly —

Tell me now : what did Harry say ? "

Leslie was silent for a while. Then, clasping
her more tightly to his breast, he said in a
low, deep voice —

Tell Louie I have found in you the truest
brother that ever lived ; ask her some day to
make it so indeed."

There was a long silence, during which the
door was pressed slowly open ; but they did

not heed, and lie who entered heard his child's
words come almost in a whisper.

Some day," she said ; " some day when
time has softened all these griefs. Your own
words, Duncan."

Yes," he said, " my own."

•'•'Hah!"

They did not start from their embrace as
that long-drawn sigh fell upon their ears, but
both asked the same question with their eyes.

Yes," said George Vine gravely as he took
Leslie's hand and bent down to kiss his child,
•'•' it has been a long dark night, but joy cometh
in the morning."

R 2

UNCLE LUKE HAS A WORD.

John Van Heldre sat in his office chair at
his table once more after a long and weary
absence, and Crampton stood opposite scowling
at him.

The old clerk had on one of his most sour
looks when Van Heldre raised his eyes from
the ledger he was scanning, and he made no
remark ; but looking up again he saw the
scowl apparently intensified.

What's the matter, Crampton ? Afraid
I shall discover that you have been guilty of
embezzlement ? " said Van Heldre, smiling.

Not a bit," said the old clerk, " nor you
aren't either."

Then what is the meaning of the black
look ? "

Oh, nothing — nothing ! "

Come, out with it, man. What's the
matter 1 "

Well, if you must know, sir, I want to
know why you can't keep quiet and get quite
well, instead of coming muddling here."

Crampton ! "

"Well, I must speak, sir. I don't want
you to be laid up again."

"No fear."

"But there is fear, sir. You know I can
keep things going all right,"

Yes, Crampton, and show a better balance
than I did."

Well then, sir, why don't you let me goon
? I can manage, and I will manage if
you'll take a holiday.

Holiday, man ? why it has been nothing
but one long painful holiday lately, and this
does me good. Now bring in the other book."

Crampton grunted and went into the outer
office to return with the cash-book, which he
placed before his employer, and drew back
into his old position, watching Van Heldre
as he eagerly scanned the pages and marked
their contents till, apparently satisfied, he
looked up to see that Crampton was smiling
down at him.
"What now?"
Eh?"
"I say what now ? Why are you laughing V

Only smiling, sir."

Well, what have I done that is ridiculous ? "

Ridiculous ? Why I was smiling because
it seemed like the good old times to have you
back busy with the books."

Crampton, we often say that my old friend
is an eccentric character, but really I think
Luke Vine must give place to you."

Dessay," said Crampton sourly. " You goon
with these accounts. Look half-way down."

Van Heldre did look half-way down, and
paused.

Five hundred pounds on the credit side,
per the cheque I wrote for Mr. Luke Vine —
why, what's this ? "

Ah ! that's what you may well say, sir.
Refused to take the money, sir. I'm sure I'm
not so eccentric as that."

But you never mentioned it, Crampton ? "

Yes, I did, sir, with my pen. There it is
in black and white. Better and plainer than
sounding words ; and besides, you weren't
here."

"But this is absurd, Crampton."

That's what I told him, sir."

Well, what did he say ? "

That I was an old fool, sir."

Tut— tut— tut ! " ejaculated Van Heldre ;

but he must be paid. I can't let him lose
the money."

What I told him, sir. I said we couldn't
let him lose the money."

What did he say to that ? "

Called me an old fool again much stronger,
sir. Most ungentlemanly — used words, sir, that
he must have picked up on the beach."

I hardly like to trouble him directly he is
back ; but would you mind sending up to Mr.
Luke Vine, with my compliments, and asking
him to come here."

Send at once, sir ? "

At once."

Perhaps before I leave the office, sir, I
might as well call your attention to a communication
received this morning."

Van Heldre looked inquiringly at his old
clerk.

It's rather curious, sir," he said, handing
a letter which he had been keeping back asa
sort of bonne houclte for the last piece of
business transacted that morning.

Never presented yet ? " said Van Heldre,
nodding his head slowly.

They must have known I stopped the
notes directly," said Crampton with a self-satisfied
smile.

I had hoped that the whole of that terrible
business had been buried for good."

"So it has, sir," grunted Crampton ; " but
some one or another keeps digging it up again."

Van Held re made no reply, so Crampton left
the office, sent off a messenger, and returned to
find his employer seated with his face buried
in his hands, thinking deeply, and heedless of
his presence.

Poor George ! " he said aloud. " Poor misguided
boy ! I wish Crampton had been "

I'm back here," said Crampton.

Ah ! Crampton," said Van Heldre starting,
sent off the message ? "

Yes, sir, I've sent off the message," said
the old man sternly. " Pray finish what you
were saying, sir. Never mind my feelings."

"What I was saying, Crampton ? I did not
say anything."

Oh yes, you did, sir ; you wished Cramp-ton
had been — what, sir ? — buried too, like the
trouble ? "

My good fellow — my dear old Crampton !
surely I did not say that aloud."

How could I have heard it, sir, if you
hadn't % I only did my duty."

Yes, yes, of course, of course, Crampton.
Eeally I am very, very sorry."

And only just before I left the room you
were complaining about people digging up the
old trouble."

Come, Crampton, I can deny that. I
apologize for thinking aloud, but it was you
who spoke of digging up the old trouble."

Ah ! well, it doesn't matter, sir. It was
my birthday just as you were at your worst.
Seventy-five, Mr. Van Heldre, sir, and you
can't be troubled with such a blundering old
clerk much longer."

My dear Crampton "

May I come in ? " followed by three thumps
with a heavy stick.

Crampton hurried to the outer office to
confront Uncle Luke.

Met your messenger just outside, and
saved him from going up. How much did
you give him ? He ought to pay that back."

Oh, never mind that, Luke. How are
you \

How ami?"

Yes. Getting settled down again % "

"How am I? Well, a little better this
morning. Do I smell of yellow soap ? "

No."

Wonder at it. I spent nearly all yesterday
trying to get off the London dirt and

smoke. Treat to get back to where there's
room to breathe."

Ah, you never did like London."

"And London never liked me, so we're
even there. Well," he continued after a pause
filled up by a low muttering grunt, " what
do you want ? You didn't send for me to
come and tell you that I had caught a cold
on my journey clown or got a rheumatic
twinge."

No, no, Luke, of course not."

Nice one, 'pon my word ! " muttered
Crampton.

AY ell, what is it ? "

Crampton moved towards the door, his way
lying by Uncle Luke ; but just as he neared
the opening, the visitor made a stab at the
wall with his heavy stick, and, as it were,
raised a bar before the old clerk, who started
violently.

Bless my heart, Mr. Luke Yine ! " he
cried ; " what are you about ? Don't do
that."

Stop here, then. Who told you to
go?"

No one, sir, but "

How do I know what he wants. I maybe
glad of a witness."

Oh, yes ! You need not go, Crampton,"
said Van Heldre. " Sit down, Luke."

No, thanks. Sit too much for my health
now. Come : out with it. What do you
want ? There is something."

Yes, there is something," said Van Heldre
quietly. " Look here, my dear Luke Vine."

Thought as much," sneered the old man.
You want to borrow money, my dear Van
Heldre.'"

No ; I want to pay money, Luke Vine.
It seems that you have returned that five
hundred pounds to Crampton."

What five hundred pounds ? "

The money you — there, we will not dwell
upon that old trouble, my dear Luke. Come :
you know what I mean."

"Oh, I see," said the old man with much
surprise. " That five hundred pounds. Well,
what about it ? "

How could you be so foolish as to return
my cheque ? "

Because you didn't owe me the money."

Nonsense, my dear fellow ! We are
old friends, but that was entirely a business
transaction."

Yes, of course it was."

Five hundred pounds were stolen."

"Yes, and I was all right."

<{ Exactly. Why should you suppose it was
your money ? "

Suppose ? Because it was mine — my new
Bank of England notes."

How do you know that ? "

Never mind how I know it, and never
mind talking about the money I didn't lose."

But you did, Luke Vine, and heavily.
Of course I am going to refund you the
money."

You can't, man."

"Can't?"

No ; because I've got it safely put away in
my pocket-book."

Van Heldre made an impatient gesticulation.


I tell you I have. The same notes, same
numbers, just as you laid them all together."

Nonsense, man ! Come, Luke Vine, my
dear old friend, let me settle this matter with
you in a business-like way ; I shall not be
happy till I do."

Then you'll have to wait a long time for
happiness, John," said Uncle Luke, smiling,
for you are not going to pay me."

But, my dear Luke."

But, my dear John! you men who turnover

your thousands are as careless as boys
over small amounts, as you call them."

Oh, come, Mr. Luke Vine, sir," said
Crampton sturdily ; " there's no carelessness in
this office."

Bah ! Clerk ! " cried Uncle Luke. " Careful,
very. Then how was it the money was
stolen ? "

li Well, sir, nobody can guard against
violence," said Crampton sourly.

Yes, they can, you pompous old antiquity.
I could. I'm not a business man. I don't
have ledgers and iron safes and a big office,
but I took care of the money better than you
did."

My dear Luke Vine, what do you mean ? "
cried Van Heldre, after giving Crampton a
look which seemed to say, "Don't take any
notice."

Mean ? Why, what I said. You people
were so careless that I didn't trust you. I
had no confidence."

Well, sir, you had confidence enough to
place five hundred pounds in our house," said
Crampton gruffly.

Yes, and you lost it."
Yes, sir, and our house offered you a
cheque for the amount, and you sent it back."

Of course I did. I didn't want my
money twice over, did I ? "

Is this meant for a riddle, Luke ? " said
Van Heldre, annoyed, and yet amused.

Riddle % No. I only want to prick that
old bubble Crampton, who is so proud of the
way in which he can take care of money,
and who has always been these last ten years
flourishing that iron safe in my face."

Really, Mr. Luke Vine ! "

Hold your tongue, sir ! Wasn't my five
hundred pounds — new, crisp Bank of England
notes — in your charge ? "

Yes, sir, in our charge."

Then why didn't you watch over them,
and take care of 'em ? Where are they now ? "

Well, sir, it is hard to say. They have
never been presented at any bank."

Of course they haven't, when I've got 'em
safe in my pocket-book."

In your pocket-book, sir ? "

Yes. Don't you believe me ? There ;
look. Bit rubbed at the edges with being
squeezed in the old leather ; but there are the
notes ; aren't they ? Look at the numbers."

As the old man spoke he took a shabby old
pocket-book from his breast, opened it, and
drew out a bundle of notes, held together

by an elastic band, and laid them on the office
table with a manor.

o

Bless my heart ! " cried Cramptort excitedly,
as he hastily put on his spectacles and
examined the notes, and compared them with
an entry in a book. " Yes, sir," he said to Van
Heldre ; " these are the very notes''

But how came you by them, Luke Vine ? "
cried Van Heldre, who looked as much astounded
as his clerk.

How came 1 by them ? " snarled Uncle
Luke. " Do you think five hundred pounds
are to be picked up in the gutter. I meant
that money, and more too, for that unfortunate
boy ; and the more careless he was the more
necessary it became for me to look after his
interests."

You meant that money for poor Harry % "

To be sure I did, and by the irony of fate
the poor misguided lad sent his companion to
steal it."

Good heavens ! " ejaculated Van Heldre,
while Crampton nodded his head so sharply
that his spectacles dropped off, and were only
saved from breaking by a quick interposition
of the hands.

And did the foolish fellow restore the
money to you ? " said Van Heldre.

"Bah ! no ! He never had it."

Then how "

"How? Don't I tell you I watched—
hung about the place, not feeling satisfied
about my property, and I came upon my
gentleman just as he was escaping with the
plunder."

"And " exclaimed Crampton excitedly.

I knocked him down — with that ruler,
and got my money out of his breast. Narrow
escape, but I got it."

Why did you not mention this before,
Luke Vine ? "

Because I had got my money safe — because
I wanted to give clever people a lesson —
because I did not want to see my nephew in

gaol — because I did not choose — because

Here, you Crampton, give me back those notes.
Thank ye, I'll take care of them in future
myself."

He replaced the notes in the case, and
buttoned it carefully in his breast.

Luke, you astonish me," cried Van Heldre.

"Eccentric, my dear sir, eccentric. Now,
then, you see why I returned you the cheque.
Morning."

Crampton took out his silk pocket-handkerchief,
and began to polish his glasses ashe

gazed hard at his employer after following
Uncle Luke to the door, which was closed
sharply.

Poor Harry Vine ! " said Van Heldre
sadly. " Combining with another to rob himself.
Surely the ways of sin are devious,
Crampton ? "

Yes," said the old man thoughtfully. " I
wish I had waited till you got well."

Too late to think of that, Crampton," said
Van Heldre sadly. " When do you go to
Pradelle's trial?"

There, sir, you've been an invalid, and
you're not well yet. Suppose we keep that
trouble buried, and let other people dig it up,
and I'll go when I'm obliged. 1 suppose you
don't want to screen him % "

I screen him ? "

11 Hah ! " ejaculated the old clerk, who began
rubbing his hands, " then I'm all right there.
I should like to see that fellow almost hung —
not quite."

Poor wretch ! "

Know anything about — eh ? "

"Harry Vine? Not yet. Only that he
has escaped somewhere, I hope, for good."

"Yes, sir, I hope so too — ion good."

VOL. III. S

TRIED IN THE FIRE.

After, as it were, a race for life, the breathless
competitors seemed to welcome the restful
change, and the sleep that came almost unalloyed
by the mental pangs which had left
their marks upon the brows of young and old.
And swift tides came and went with the calms
and storms of the western coast, but somehow
all seemed to tell of rest and peace.

It was a year after Victor Pradelle had
been placed in what Sergeant Parkins facetiously
termed one of her Majesty's boarding
under a good master, that John Van
Heldre wrote the following brief letter in
answer to one that was very long, dated a
month previous to the response, and bearing
the post-mark of the Straits Settlements : —

"Harry Vine, — I quite appreciate what
you say regarding your long silence. I am
too old a man to believe in a hasty repentance

forced on by circumstances. Hence, I say.
you have done wisely in waiting a year before
writing as fully as you have. George
and Luke Vine have always been to me as
brothers. You know how I felt toward their
son. I say to him now, you are acting wisely,
and I am glad that you have met such a
friend as Richard Leslie.

Certainly : stay where you are, though
there is nothing to fear now from the law, I
guarantee that. The years soon roll by. I
say this for all our Bakes.

As to the final words of your letter —
one of my earliest recollections is that of my
little hands being held together by one whom
you lost too soon in life. Had your mother
lived your career might have been different.
"What I was taught as my little hands were
held together, I still repeat : ' As we forgive
them that trespass against us.' Yes. Some
day I hope to give you in the flesh that which
I give you in spirit now — my hand."

Six more years had passed before a broad-shouldered,
bronzed, and bearded man — partner
in the firm of Leslie and Vine, Singapore and
Penang — grasped John Van Heldre's hand,

S 2

and asked him a question to which the old
merchant replied: "Yes, all is forgiven and
forgotten now. If you can win her : yes."

But the days glided on and the question
was not asked. Uncle Harry was constantly
on the beach or down on the rocks with the
two little prattling children of Duncan Leslie
and his wife, and Uncle Luke, who seemed
much the same, was rather disposed to be
jealous of the favour in which the returned
wanderer stood ; but he indulged in a pleasant
smile now and then, when he was not seen,
and had taken to a habit of stopping his
nephew on the beach at unexpected times,
and apparently for no reason whatever.

The question was not asked, for Aunt Marguerite,
who had taken to her bed for the
past year, was evidently fading fast. As
Dr. Knatchbull said, she had been dying for
months, and it was the state of her health
which brought her nephew back to England,
to find his old sins forgotten or forgiven, a
year sooner than he had intended.

By slow degrees the vitality had passed
from the old woman step by step, till the
brain alone remained bright and clear. She
was as exacting as ever, and insisted upon

her bed being draped with flowers and lace
and silk, and her one gratification was to be
propped up, with a fan in one nerveless hand
and a scent-bottle in the other, listening to
the reading of some old page of French history,
over which she smiled and softly nodded her
head.

One day Harry was down near the harbour
talking to Poll Perrow, whose society he often
affected, to the old woman's great delight,
when Madelaine Van Heldre came to him
hastily.

Is anything wrong ? " he asked excitedly.

She bowed her head, and for the moment
could not speak.

Aunt Marguerite ? "

Yes. I was reading to her, and you
know her way, Harry ; half mockingly she
was telling; me that I should never gain the
pure French accent, when she seemed to
change suddenly, and gasped out your name.
Louie had not gone home ; I was relieving
her, as I often do now, and she is with her
aunt. Leslie has gone to fetch Mr. Vine,
who is down on the shore with Uncle
Luke."

A few minutes later Harry was in the old

lady's room, the doctor making way for him
to approach the bed, about which the rest of
the family were grouped.

"There," she said sharply, "you need not
wait. I want to speak to Harry."

He bent down to place his arm beneath
the feeble neck, and she smiled up at him
with the ruling passion still strong even in
death, and her words came very faintly ; but
he heard them all :

Remember, Harry, the hope of our family
rests on you. We are the Des Vignes, say
what they will. Now marry — soon — some
good, true woman, one of the Haute Noblesse! 1

"Yes, aunt, I will."

An hour later she was peacefully asleep.

Closed in death," said Harry Vine as he
laid his hand reverently across the withered
lids ; " but her eyes must be open now, father,
to the truth."

There was to be a quiet little dinner at
Leslie's about a fortnight later, and after a
walk down through the churchyard, the party
were going up the steep cliff-path. Leslie
and his handsome young wife were on ahead ;
the old men coming slowly toiling on behind

as Harry stopped with Madelaine in the well-known
sheltered niche.

They stood gazing out at the sea, stretching
as it were into infinity, and as they gazed
they went on with their conversation, talking
calmly of the quaint old lady's prejudices and
ways.

Did you hear her last last words ? " said
Harrv gravely.

'•'Yes."

The look which accompanied the answer was
frank and calm. It seemed to lack emotion,
but there was a depth of patient truth and
trust therein which told of enduring faith.

She would have me marry soon — some
good, true woman, one of the Haute Noblesse?

•*'Yes ; it would be better so."

I have loved one of the Haute Noblesse
for seven years as a weak, foolish boy —
Been years as a trusting man — and she has
not changed. Maddy, is my reward to come
at last ? "

As Madelaine placed her hands calmly in
those extended to her she seemed without
emotion still; but there was a joyous light
in her brightening eyes, and then a deep flush
suffused her cheeks as two words were spoken

by one of the trio of old men who had slowly
toiled up towards where they stood.

"Thank God!"

It was George Vine who spoke, and the
others seemed to look " Amen."

THE END.

R. Clay & Sons, Limited, London &' Bungay.
