f!

h-

-/ 1/

»i ^

4 4 .

MASTER OF THE CEREMONIES.

B ^ox)cI.

ceo

BY

GEORGE Danville Penn,

AUTHOR OF 'double Cunning,' * THE PARSON o' Rumford,' ETC., ETC.

IX THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. L

WARD AND DOWNEY,
YORK STREET, COVENT GARDEN.

1886.

CONTEXTS OF VOL. I.

chapter PACE

I. HIS HOUSE - 1

>. II. HIS BREAKFAST - - . - g

>^ III. THE FLICKERING FLAME - - - - 21

■X IV. CLOUDS - - - - - - 29

^ V. A NIGHT TO BE REMEMBERED - - - 36

^ TI. A GHASTLY Serenade - - - - 48

TIT. AFTER THE STORM - - - - - 04

VIII. THE FIRST MEETING - - - - - 75

^^ IX. WEARING HIS MASK - - - - - 80

X. A SMALL RESCUE - - - - - C2

J XI. THE OPENING OF A VEIN - - - - 08

XII. MRS. BURNETT MAKES A CALL - . 105

(j) Xii A NIGHT-BIRD TRAPPED - - - - 114

°^ XIV. SOMETHING THROWN IN THE Sea - - - 121

XV. MISS Close's LIBRARY - - - - 128

^ XVI. MRS. dean's drive - - - - - 141

^ XVII. MISS dean's ponies - - - - - ]£0

- xviii. unreasonable children - . - . 163

CHAPTER PAGE

XIX. MISS close's IIEEO - - - . 170

XX. Barclay's tenants - - - - - 181

XXI. DICK CATCHES— Theirs - . - - 199

XXII. A SURREPTITIOUS VISITOR . - - - 205

XXIII. FATHER AND DAUGHTER - - - - 212

XXIV. PRESSED FOR MONEY - 218
XXV. A REVELATION . - - 230

XXVI. THE MONEY-LENDER AT HOME - - - 242

XXVII. FISHERMAN DICK STARES - - 249

MASTER OF THE CEREMONIES.

Chapter I.

HIS HOUSE.

Early morning at Saltinville, with the tide down, and the
cain sea shimmering Hke damasked and deadened silver in
the sunshine. Here and there a lugger was ashore, delivering
its take of iris-hued mackerel to cart and basket,
as a busy throng stood round, some upon the sands, some
knee-deep in water, and all eager to obtain a portion of the
fresh fish that fetched so good a price amongst the visitors
to the town.

The trawler was coming in, too, with its freight of fine
thick soles and turbot, with a few gaily-scaled red mullet ;
and perhaps a staring-eyed John Dory or two, from the
trammel net set overnight amongst the rocks : all choice
fish, these, to be bought up ready for royal and noble use,

VOL. I. 1

for London would see no scale of any of the fish caught that
night.

The unclouded sun flashed from the windows of the
houses on the cliff, giving them vivid colours that the
decorator had spared, and lighting up the downs beyond,
so that from the sea Saltinville looked a very picture of all
that was peaceful and bright. There were no huge stucco
palaces to mar the landscape, for all was modest as to
architecture, and as fresh as green and stone-coloured paint
applied to window-frame, veranda and shutter could make
it. Flowers of variety were not plentiful, but great clusters
of orange marigolds flourished bravely, and, with brandished
sunflowers, did no Httle towards giving warmth of
colour to the place. There had been no storms of late — no
windy nights when the spray was torn from the tops of
waves to fly in showers over the houses, and beat the
window-panes, crusting them afterwards with a coat of
dingy salt. The windows, then, were flashing in the sun ;
but all the same, by six o'clock, Isaac Monkey, the valet,
body-servant, and footman-inordinate to Stuart Danville,
Esquire, M.C., was busy, dressed in a striped jacket, and
standing on the very top of a pair of steps, cloth in one
hand and wash-leather in the other, carefully cleaning
windows that were already spotless. For there was something
in the exterior of the M.C.'s house that suggested its
tenant. Paint, glass, walls, and doorstep were so scrupulously

clean that they recalled the master's face, and
seemed to have been clean-shaven but an hour before.

Isaac was not alone in his task, for, neat in a print dress
and snowy cap, Eliza, the housemaid, was standing on a
chair within ; and as they cleaned the windows in concert,
they courted in a special way.

There is no accounting for the pleasure people find in
very ordinary ways. Isaac and Eliza found theirs in making
the glass so clear that they could smile softly at each other
without let or hindrance produced by smear or speck in any
single pane. Their hands, too, were kept in contact, saving
for cloth and glass, and moved in unison, describing circles
and a variety of other figures, going into the corners together,
changing from cloth to wash-leather, and moving,
as it were, by one set of muscles till the task was concluded
with a chaste salute — a kiss through the glass.

Meanwhile, anyone curious about the house would, if he
had raised this eyes, have seen that one of the upstairs windows
had a perfect screen of flowers, that grew from a broad,
green box along the sill. Sweet peas clustered, roses
bloomed, geraniums dotted it with brilliant tiny pointless
.stars of scarlet, and at one side there was a string that ran
up from a peg to a nail, hammered, unknown to the M.C.,
into the wall. That peg was an old tooth-brush handle,
and the nail had been driven in with the back of a hairbrush;
but bone handle and string were invisible now,

1—?.

covered by the twining strands of so many ipomaeas, whose
heart-shaped leaves and trumpet blossoms formed one of
the most lovely objects of the scene. Here they were of
richest purple, fading into lavender and grey ; there of delicate
pink with well-formed starry markings in the inner
bell, and moist with the soft air of early morning. Each
blossom was a thing of beauty soon to fade, for, as the
warm beams of the sun kissed them, the edges began to
curl ; then there would be a fit of shrivelling, and the bloom
of the virgin flower passed under the sun-god's too ardent
caress.

About and above this screen of flowers, a something ivory
white, and tinged with peachy pink, kept darting in and out.
Now it touched a rose, and a shower of petals fell softly
down ; now a geranium leaf that was turning yellow disappeared
; now again a twig that had borne roses was taken
away, after a sound that resembled a steely click. Then
the little crimson and purple blossoms of a fuchsia were
touched, and shivered and twinkled in the light at the soft
movements among the graceful stems as dying flowers were
swept away.

For a minute again all was still, but the next, there was a.
fresh vibration amongst the flowers as this ivory whiteness
appeared in a new place, curving round a plant as if in
loving embrace ; and at such times the blooms seemed drawn
towards another and larger flower of thicker petal and of

coral hue, that peeped out amongst the fresh green leaves,
and then it was that a watcher would have seen that this
ivory something playing about the window garden was a
soft white hand.

Again a fresh vibration amongst the clustering flowers, as
if they were trembling with delight at the touches that were
once more to come. Then there was a brilliant flash as
the sun's rays glanced from a bright vessel, the pleasant
gur^e of water from a glass carafe, and once more stillness
before the stems were slowly parted, and a larger flower
peeped out from the leafy screen — the soft, sweet face of
Claire Demdlle — to gaze at the sea and sky, and inhale the
morning air.

Eichard. Linnell was not there to look up and watch the
changes in the sweet, candid face, with its high white forehead,
veined with blue, its soft, peachy cheeks and clear,
dark-grey eyes, full of candour, but searching and firm beneath
the well-marked brows. Was her mouth too large?
Perhaps so ; but what a curve to that upper lip, what a
bend to the lower over that retreating dimpled chin. If it
had been smaller the beauty of the regular teeth would have
been more hidden, and there would have been less of the
pleasant smile that came as Claire brushed aside her
wavy brown hair, turned simply back, and knotted low
down upon her neck.

Pages might be written in Claire Denville's praise : let it

suffice that she was a tall, graceful woman, and that even
the most disparaging scandalmonger of the place owned that
she was * not amiss.'

Claire Denville's gaze out to sea was hut a short one.
Then her face disappeared ; the stems and blossoms darted
back to form a screen, and the tenant of the barely-furnished
bedroom was busy for some time, making the bed and placing
all in order before drawing a tambour frame to the window,
and unpinning a piece of paper that guarded the gay silks
and wools. Then for the next hour Claire bent over her
work, the glistening needle passing rapidly in and out as
she gazed intently at the pattern rapidly approaching completion,
a piece of work that was to be taken surreptitiously
to Miss Close's library and fancy bazaar for sale, money
being a scarce commodity in the M.C.'s home.

From below, time after time, came up sounds of preparation
for the breakfast of the domestics, then for their own,
and Claire sighed as she thought of the expenses incurred
for three servants, and how much happier they might be if
they lived in simpler style.

The chiming of the old church clock sounded sweetly on
the morning air.

Ting-dong — quarter-past ; and Claire listened attentively.

Ting-dong — half-past .

Ting-dong — quarter to eight.

How time goes !' she cried, with a wistful look at her

work, which she hurriedly covered, and then her print dress
rustled as she ran downstairs to find her father already in
the little pinched parlour, dubbed breakfast-room, standing
thin and pensive in a long faded dressing-gown, one arm
resting upon the chimney-piece, snuff-box in hand, the other
raised level ^^'ith his face, holding the freshly-dipped-for
pinch — in fact, standing in a studied attitude, as if for his
portrait to be limned.

HIS BREAKFAST.

Ah, my child, you are late,' said the Master of the Ceremonies,
as Claire ran to meet him and kissed his cheek.

"Early to bed and early to rise makes a man healthy,
wealthy, and wise." It will do the same for you, my child,
and add bloom to your cheek, though, of course, we cannot
be early in the season.'

I am a little late, papa dear,' said Claire, ringing a
tinkling bell, with the result that Isaac, in his striped jacket
and the stiffest of white cravats, entered, closed the door
behind him, and then stood statuesque, holding a brightly-polished
kettle, emitting plenty of steam.

Any letters, Isaac?'

No, sir, none this morning,' and then Isaac carefully
poured a small quantity of the boiling water into the teapot,
whose lid Claire had raised, and stood motionless while she
poured it out again, and then unlocked a very small tea-caddy
and spooned out three very small spoonfuls — one

apiece, and none for the over-cleaned and de-silvered plated
pot. This done, Isaac filled up, placed the kettle on
the hob, fetched a Bible and prayer-book from a sideboard,
placed them at one end of the table and went
out.

Why is not Morton down ?' said the M.C. sternly.

He came down quite an hour ago, papa. He must have
gone for a walk. Shall we wait ?'

Certainly not, my child.'

At that moment there was a little scuffling outside the
door, which was opened directly after by Isaac, who admitted
Eliza and a very angular-looking woman with two
pins tightly held between her lips — pins that she had intended
to transfer to some portion of her garments, but had not had
time. These three placed themselves before three chairs by
the door, and waited till the M.C. had gracefully replaced
his snuff-box, and taken two steps to the table, where he
and Claire sat down. Then the servants took their seats,
and then ' Master ' opened the Bible to read in a slow, deliberate
way, and as if he enjoyed the names, that New
Testament chapter on genealogies which to youthful ears
seemed to be made up of a constant repetition of the two
words, ' which was.'

This ended, all rose and knelt down, Isaac with the point
of his elbow just touching the point of Eliza's elbow, for he
comforted his conscience over this tender advance by the

reflection that marriage, though distant, was a sacred thing;
and he made up for his unspiritual behaviour to a great
extent by saying the ' Amens ' in a much louder voice than
Cook, and finished off in the short space of silence after the
Master of the Ceremonies had read the last Collect, and
v^hen all were expected to continue their inflexions till
that personage sighed and made a movement as if to rise, by
adding a short extempore prayer of his own, one which he
had repeated religiously for the past four years without effect,
the supplication being :

And finally, may we all get the arrears of our wages, evermore.
Amen.'

Isaac had finished his supplementary prayer ; the M.C.
sighed and rose, and, the door being opened by the footman,
the two maids stepped out. Isaac followed, and in a few
minutes returned with a very coppery rack, containing four
thin pieces of toast, and a little dish whose contents were
hidden by a very battered cover. These were placed with
the greatest form upon the table, and the cover removed with
a flourish, to reveal two very thin and very curly pieces of
streaky bacon, each of which had evidently been trying to
inflate itself like the frog in the fable, but with no other
result than the production of a fatty bladder puff, supported
by a couple of patches of brown.

Isaac handed the toast to father and daughter, and then
went off with the cover silently as a spirit, and the breakfast

was commenced by the M.C. softly breaking a piece of
toast with his delicate fingers and saying :

I am displeased with Morton. After yesterday's incident,
he should have been here to discuss with me the
future of his campaign.'

Here he is, papa,' cried Claire eagerly, and she rose to
kiss her brother affectionately as he came rather boisterously
into the room, looking tall, thin and pale, but healthy
and hungry, as an overgrown boy of nineteen would look
who had been out at the seaside before breakfast.

You where not here to prayers, Morton,' said the M.C. sternly.
'No, father; didn't know it was so late,' said the lad,

beginning on the toast as soon as he was seated.

I trust that you have not been catching — er — er — dabs,
this morning.' The word was distasteful when the fish was
uncooked, and required an effort to enunciate.

Oh, but I have, though. Bare sport this morning. Got
enough for dinner.*

The M.C. was silent for a few moments, and gracefully
sipped his thin tea. He was displeased, but there was a
redeeming feature in his son's announcement — enough fish
for dinner. There would be no need to order anything of
the butcher.

Hush, Morton,' said Claire softly, and she laid her soft
little hand on his, seeing their father about to speak.

*I am — er — sorry that you should be so thoughtless,

Morton,' said his father ; ' at a time, too, when I am making
unheard-of efforts to obtain that cornetcy for you ; how can
you degrade yourself — you, the son of a — er — man — a — er
gentleman in my position, by going like a common boy
down below that pier to catch — er — dabs !'

Well, we want them,' retorted the lad. * A good dinner
of dabs isn't to be sneezed at. I'm as hungry as hungry,
sometimes. See how thin I am. Why, the boys laugh,
and call me Lanky Denville.'

What is the opinion of boys to a young man with your
prospects in life?' said his father, carefully ignoring the
question of food supply. ' Besides, you ought to be particular,
sir, for the sake of your sister May, who has married
so well.'

What, to jerry-sneaks Frank Burnett ? A little humbug.'

Morton !'

Well, so he is, father. I asked him to lend me five
shillings the day before yesterday, and he called me an importunate
beggar.'

You had no business to ask him for money, sir.'

Who am I to ask, then ? I must have money. You
won't let me go out to work.'

No, sir ; you are a gentleman's son, and must act as a
gentleman.'

I can't act as a gentleman without money,' cried the lad,
eating away, for, to hide the look of pain in her face, Claire

kept diligently attending to her brother's wants by supplying
him with a fair amount of thin tea and bread and butter, as
well as her own share of the bacon.

My dear son,' said the M.C. with dignity, ' everything
comes to the man who will wait. Your sister May has
made a wealthy marriage. Claire will, I have no doubt, do
the same, and I have great hopes of your prospects.'

Haven't any prospects,' said the lad, in an ill-used tone.
'Not from me,' said the M.C, 'for I am compelled to

keep up appearances before the world, and my fees and
offerings are not nearly so much as people imagine.'

Then why don't we live accordingly ?' said the lad
roughly.

Allow me, with my experience, sir, to know best ; and I
desire that you will not take that tone towards me. Recollect,
sir, that I am your father.'

Indeed, dear papa, Morton does not mean to be disrespectful.'


Silence, Claire. And you, Morton ; I will be obeyed.'

All right, father. I'll obey fast enough, but it does seem
precious hard to see Key down in the kitchen stuffing himself,
and us up in the parlour going short so as to keep up
appearances.'

My boy,' said the M.C. pathetically, ' it is Spartan-like.
It is self-denying and manly. Have courage, and all will
end well. I know it is hard. It is my misfortune, but I

appeal to you both, do I ever indulge myself at your expense
? Do I ever spare myself in my efforts for you ?'

No, no, no, dear,' cried Claire, rising with tears in her
eyes to throw her arm round his neck and kiss him.

'Good girl! — good girl!' he said, smiling sadly, and returning
the embrace. * But sit down, sit down now, and
let us discuss these very weighty matters. Fortune is
beginning to smile upon us, my dears. May is off my
hands — well married.'

Claire shook her head sadly.

I say well married, Claire,' said her father sternly, ' and
though we have still that trouble ever facing us, of a member
of our family debauched by drunkenness, and sunk down to
the degradation of a common soldier '

Oh ! I say, father, leave poor old Fred alone,' cried
Morton. * He isn't a bad fellow ; only unlucky.'

Be silent, sir, and do not mention his name again in my
presence. And Claire, once for all, I forbid his coming to
this house.'

He only came to the back door,' grumbled Morton.

A son who is so degraded that he cannot come to the
front door, and must lower himself to the position of one
of our servants, is no companion for my children. I forbid
all further communication with him.'

Oh, papa !' cried Claire, with the tears in her eyes.

Silence ! Morton, my son, I have hopes that by means

of my interest a certain person will give you a commission
in the Light Dragoons, and — For what we have received
may the Lord make ns truly thankful.'

Amen,' said Morton. ' Claire, I want some more bread
and butter.'

Claire,' said the Master of the Ceremonies, rising from
the table as a faint tinkle was heard, ' there is the Countess's
bell.'

He drew the girl aside and laid a thin white finger upon
her shoulder.

You must give her a broader hint this morning, Claire.
Six months, and she has paid nothing whatever. I cannot,
I really cannot go on finding her ladyship in apartments and
board like this. It is so unreasonable. A woman, too, with
her wealth. Pray, speak to her again, but don't offend her
You must be careful. Delicately, my child — delicately. A
leader of fashion even now. A woman of exquisite refinement.
Of the highest aristocracy. Speak delicately. It
would never do to cause her annoyance about such a sordid
thing as money — a few unsettled debts of honour. Ah, her
bell again. Don't keep her waiting.'

If you please, ma'am, her ladyship has rung twice,' said
Isaac, entering the room ; * and Eliza says shall she go ?'

No, Isaac, your mistress will visit her ladyship,' said the
M.C. with dignity. ' You can clear away, Isaac — you can
clear away.'

Stuart Denville, Esquire, walked to the window and took
a pinch of snuff. As soon as his back was turned Isaac
grinned and winked at Morton, making believe to capture
and carry off the bread and butter ; while the lad hastily
wrote on a piece of paper :

Pour me out a cup of tea in the pantry, Ike, and I'll
come down.'

Five minutes later the room was cleared, and the M.C.
turned from the window to catch angrily from the table some
half-dozen letters which the footman had placed ready for
him to see.

Bills, bills, bills,' he said, in a low, angry voice, thrusting
them unread into the drawer of a cabinet ; ' what am I todo
? How am I to pay ?'

He sat down gracefully, as if it were part of his daily life,
and his brow wrinkled, and an old look came into his face
as he thought of the six months' arrears of the lady who
occupied his first floor, and his hands began to tremble
strangely as he seemed to see open before him an old-fashioned
casket, in which lay, glittering upon faded velvet,
necklet, tiara, brooch, earrings and bracelets — large
diamonds of price ; a few of which, if sold, would be sufficient
to pay his debts, and enable him to keep up appearances,
and struggle on, till Claire was well married, and
his son well placed.

Money — money — always struggling on for money in this

life of beggarly gentility ; while only on the next floor that
old woman on the very brink of the grave had trinkets, anyone
of which

He made a hasty gesture, as if he were thrusting back
some temptation, and took up a newspaper, but let it fall
upon his knees as his eyes lit upon a list of bankrupts.

Was it come to that ? He was heavily in debt to many
of the tradespeople. The epidemic in the place last year
had kept so many people away, and his fees had been less
than ever. Things still looked bad. Then there was the
rent, and Barclay had said he would not wait, and there
were the bills that Barclay held — his acceptances for money
borrowed at a heavy rate to keep up appearances when his
daughter May — this idol — the pretty little sunbeam of his
house — became Mrs. Frank Burnett.

Barclay is hard, very hard,' said the Master of the Ceremonies
to himself. * Barclay said '

He again made that gesture, a gracefully made gesture of
repelling something with his thin, white hands, but the
thought came back.

Barclay said that half the ladies of fashion when short
of money, through play, took their diamonds to their
jeweller, sold some of the best, and had them replaced with
paste. It took a connoisseur to tell the difference by candlelight.'


Stuart Denville, poverty-stricken gentleman, the poorest
VOL. I. 2

of men, suffering as he did the misery of one stmgghng to
keep up appearances, rose to his feet with a red spot in each
of his cheeks, and a curious look in his eyes.

No, no,' he ejaculated excitedly as he walked up and
down, ' a gentleman, sir — a gentleman, if poor. Better one's
razors or a pistol. They would say it was all that I could do.
Not the first gentleman w4io has gone to his grave like that.'

He shuddered and stood gazing out of the window at
the sea, which glittered in the sunshine like — yes, like
diamonds.

Barclay said he had often changed diamonds for paste, and
no one but a judge could tell what had been done. Half a
dozen of the stones from a bracelet replaced with paste, and
he would be able to hold up his head for a year, and by that
time how changed everything might be.

Curse the diamonds ! Was he mad ? Why did the sea
dance and sparkle, and keep on flashing like brilliant?
Was it the work of some devil to tempt him with such
thoughts ? Or was he going mad ?

He took pinch after pinch of snuff, and walked up and
down with studied dancing-master strides as if he were being
observed, instead of alone in that shabby room, and as he
walked he could hear the dull buzz of voices and a light
tread overhead.

He walked to the window again with a shudder, and the
sea still seemed to be all diamonds.

He could not bear it, but turned to his seat, into which he
sank heavily, and covered this face with his hands.

Diamonds again — glistening diamonds, half a dozen of
which, taken — why not borrowed for a time from the old
woman who owed him so much, and would not pay? Just
borrowed for the time, and paste substituted till fate smiled
upon him, and his plans were carried out. How easy it
would be. And she, old, helpless, would never know the
difference — and it was to benefit his children.

I cannot bear it,' he moaned ; and then, ' Barclay would
do it for me. He is secret as the tomb. He never speaks.
If he did, what reputations he could blast.'

So easy ; the old woman took her opiate every night, and
slept till morning. She would not miss the cross — yes, that
would be the one — no, a bracelet better. She never wore
that broad bracelet, Claire said, now she had realized that
her arms were nothing but bone.

Am I mad ?' cried the old man, starting up again. ' Yes,
what is it ?'

Messenger from Mr. Barclay, sir, to say he will call tomorrow
at twelve, and he hopes you will be in.'

Yes, yes, Isaac ; say yes, I will be in,' said the wretched
man, sinking back in his chair with the perspiration starting
out all over his brow. And then, as he was left alone,
How am I to meet him ? What am I to say ?' he
whispered. ' Oh, it is too horrible to bear!'

2—2

Once more he started to his feet and walked to the
window and looked out upon the sea.

Diamonds — glittering diamonds as far as eye could reach,
and the Master of the Ceremonies, reading more and more
the meaning of the word temptation, staggered away from
the window with a groan.

THE FLICKERING FLAME.

Draw the curtains, my dear, and then go into the next
room, and throw open the French window quite wide.'

It was a numbing noise that seemed to come out of a
cap-border lying on a pillow, for there was no face visible ;
but a long thin elevation of the bedclothes, showing that
some one was lying there, could be seen in the dim light.

Claire drew the curtains, opened a pair of folding doors,
and crossed the front room to open the French window and
admit the sweet fresh air.

She stepped out into the balcony supported by wooden
posts, up which a creeper was trained, and stood by a few
shrubs in pots gazing out at the brilliant sea ; but only fora
few moments, before turning, recrossing the simply
furnished drawing-room, and going into the back, where
the large four-post bedstead suddenly began to quiver, and
the bullion fringe all round to dance, as its occupant burst
into a spasmodic fit of coughing.

He — lie — he, hi — hi — hi, hec — hec— hec, ha — ha — ha !
ho — ho ! Bless my — hey — ha ! hey — ha ! hugh — hugh —
hugh ! Oh dear me ! oh — why don't you — heck — heck —
heck — heck — heck ! Shut the — ho — ho — ho — ho — hugh —
hugh — window before I— ho — ho — ho — ho !'

Claire flew back across the drawing-room and shut the
window, hurrying again to the bedside, where, as she drew
aside the curtains, the morning light displayed a ghastly-looking,
yellow-faced old woman, whose head nodded and
bowed in a palsied manner, as she sat up, supporting herself
with one arm, and wiped her eyes — the hand that held the
handkerchief being claw-like and bony, and covered with,
a network of prominent veins.

She was a repulsive-looking, blear-eyed old creature, with
a high-bridged aquiline nose that seemed to go with the
claw-like hand, k few strands of white hair had escaped
from beneath the great mob of lace that frilled her nightcap,
and hung over forehead and cheek, which were lined
and wrinkled like a walnut shell, only ten times as deeply.

It's — it's your nasty damp house,' mumbled the old
woman spitefully, her lips seeming to be drawn tightly over
her gums, and her nose threatening to tap her chin as she
spoke. 'It's — it's killing me. I never had such a cough
before. D — n Saltinville ! I hate it.'

Oh, Lady Teigne, how can you talk like that !' cried
Claire. * It is so shocking.'

'What! to say d ? 'Isn't. I'll say it again. A

hundred times if I like;' and she rattled out the condemnatory
word a score of times over, as fast as she could
utter it, while Claire looked on in a troubled way at the
hideous old wretch before her.

Well, what are you staring at, pink face ! Wax doll !
Baby chit ! Don't look at me in that proud way, as if you
were rejoicing because you are young, and I am a little old.
You'll be like me some day. If you live — he — he — he ! If
you live. But you won't. You look consumptive. Eh?'

I did not speak,' said Claire sadly. * Shall I bring your
breakfast, Lady Teigne?'

Yes, of course. Are you going to starve me ? Mind the
beef-tea's strong this morning, and put a little more cognac
in, child. Don't you get starving me. Tell your father,
child, that I shall give him a cheque some day. I haven't
forgotten his account, but he is not to pester me with reminders.
I shall pay him when I please.'

My father would be greatly obliged. Lady Teigne, if you
would let him have some money at once. I know he is
pressed.'

How dare you ! How dare you ! Pert chit ! Look
here, girl,' cried the old woman, shaking horribly with rage ;
if another word is said to me about money, I'll go and take
apartments somewhere else.'

Lady Teigne ! You are ill,' cried Claire, as the old

woman sank back on her pillow, looking horribly purple.
Let me send for a doctor.'

'What!' cried the old woman, springing up — 'a doctor?
Don't you mention a doctor again in my presence, miss.
Do you think I'd trust myself to one of the villains ? He'd
kill me in a week. Go and get my beef-tea. I'm quite
well.'

Claire went softly out of the room, and the old woman
sat up coughing and muttering.

< Worrying me for money, indeed — a dipperty-dapperty
dancing-master ! I won't pay him a penny.'

Here there was a fit of coughing that made the fringe
dance till the old woman recovered, wiped her eyes, and
shook her skinny hand at the fringe for quivering.

Doctor ? Yes, they'd better. What do I want with a
doctor ? Let them get one for old Lyddy — wants one worse
than I do, ever so much. Oh, there you are, miss. Is that
beef-tea strong?'

Yes, Lady Teigne, very strong.'

Claire placed a tray, covered with a white napkin, before
her, and took the cover from the white china soup-basin,
beside which was a plate of toast cut up into dice.

The old woman sniffed at a spoonful.

How much cognac did you put in ?'

A full wine-glass, Lady Teigne.'
Then it's poor brandy.'

No, Lady Teigne ; it is the best French.'

Chut ! Don't talk to me, child. I know what brandy
is.'

She threw some of the tippets in, and began tasting the
broth in an pleasant way, mingling between the spoonfuls.


I knew what brandy was before you were born, and
shall go on drinking it after you are dead, I dare say.
There, I shan't have any more. Give it to that hungry boy
of yours. He looks as if he wanted it.'

Claire could not forbear a smile, for the old woman had
not left half a dozen spoonfuls at the bottom of the basin.

Look here. Come up at two o'clock and dress me. I
shall have a good many visitors to-day, and mind this :
don't you ever hint at sending up Eliza again, or I'll go and
take apartments somewhere else. We're getting proud,
I suppose ?'

There was a jingle of the china on the tray as the old
woman threw herself down, and then a mumbling, followed
by a fit of coughing, which soon subsided, and lastly there
was nothing visible but the great cap-border, and a few
straggling white hairs.

At two o'clock to the moment Claire went upstairs again,
and for the space of an hour she performed the duties of
lady's-maid without a murmur, building up the old relic of
a bygone fashionable generation into a presentable form.

There was an auburn set of curls upon her head, with a
huge tortoiseshell comb behind. A change had been
wrought in her mouth, which was filled with white teeth.
A thick coating of powder filled up some of her wrinkles, and
a wonderful arrangement of rich lace draped her form as she
sat propped up in an easy chair.

Now my diamonds,' she said, at last ; and Claire fetched
a casket from the dressing-table, and held a mirror before
the old lady, as she wearied herself — poor old flickering
flame that she was ! — fitting rings on her thin fingers, the
glittering necklet about her baggy throat, the diadem in her
hair, and the eardrops in the two yellow pendulous adjuncts
to her head.

Shall I do, chit ?' she said, at last.

Yes,' said Claire gravely.

Humph ! You don't look pleased ; you never do.
You're jealous, chit. There, half drawdown the blinds and
go, now. Leave the room tidy. I hate to have you by meat
times like this.'

Claire helped her to walk to the drawing-room, arranged a
few things, and then left the room with the folding doors
closed, and it seemed as if life and youth had gone out of
the place, leaving it to ghastly old age and death, painted
with red lips and white cheeks, and looking ten times more
awful than death in its natural solemn state.

Then for two hours fashionable Saltinville rattled the

knocker, and was shown up by Isaac, in ones, and twos, and
threes, and told Lady Teigne that she never looked better,
and took snuff, and gossiped, and told of the latest scandals
about Miss A., and Mr. B., and Lord C, and then stopped,
for Lord C. came and told tales back; and all the while
Lady Teigne, supported by Lady Drelincourt, her sister,
ogled and smiled, and smirked under her paint and diamonds,
and quarrelled with her sister every time they were
left for a few minutes alone.

It's shameful, Lyddy,' said her ladyship, pinching her
over-dressed sister ; ' an old thing like you, rolling in riches,
and you won't pay my debts.'

Pay them yourself,' was the ungracious reply. * Oh !'
This was consequent upon the receipt of a severe pinch

from Lady Teigne, but the elderly sisters smiled again
directly, for Isaac announced Major Eockley, and the handsome,
dark officer came in, banging an imaginary sabre at
his heels and chinking his spurs. He kissed Lady Teigne's
hand, bent courteously over Lady Drelincourt, and then set
both tittering over the latest story about the Prince.

The sisters might have been young from their ways and
looks, and general behaviour towards the Major, whose
attentions towards the venerable animated mummy upon
the couch seemed marked by a manner that was almost
filial.

He patted the cushions that supported the weak back ;

held her ladyship when a fit of coiighmg came on, and then
had to find the necklet that had become fastened and had
slipped down beneath an Indian shawl, spread coverlet
fashion, over the lady's trembling limbs.

Thank you so much, Major. How clever you are !'
cackled the old woman playfully, as he found the necklet,
and clasped it about her throat. * I almost feel disposed to
give you some encouragement, only it would make Lyddy
furious.'

Lady Drelincourt said ' For shame !' and tapped her
sister with her fan, and then Major Cockle had to give
place to Captain Bray and Lieutenant Sir Harry Payne,
officers in his regiment, the former a handsome, portly
dandy who puzzled his dearest friends, he was so poor but
looked so well.

Then followed other members of the fashionable world of
Saltinville, till nearly six, when the knocker ceased making
the passage echo, the last visitor had called, and Claire helped
half carried — her ladyship back to bed, and watched her
relock her jewels in the casket, which was taken then to
the dressing-table. Her ladyship was made comfortable,
partook of her dinner and tea, and then waited for the
coming of Claire for the last time that night.

CLOUDS.

Lady Teigxe's drawing-room was in full progress, and
Claire was working hard at her tambour frame, earning
money respectably, and listening to the coming and going
of the visitors, when there was a tap at her bedroom door,
and the maid Eliza entered.

If you please, miss,' said EUza, and stopped.

Yes, Eliza,' and the soft white hand remained suspended
over the canvas, with the needle glittering between the
taper fingers.

If you please, miss, there's that young man at the
kitchen door.'

That young man ?'

The soldier, miss ; and he do look nice : Mr. James
Bell.'

There was a flush in Eliza's face. It might have been
that which fled from Claire's, leading it like ivory.
Where is your master ?'

He went out on the parade, miss.'
'And Mr. Morton?'

Hush, miss ! he said I wasn't to tell. He bought two
herrings of Fisherman Dick at the back door, and I believe
heave gone to the end of the pier, fishing.'

I'll come down, Eliza.'

Eliza tripped off to hurry down to the handsome young
dragoon waiting in the kitchen, and wonder whether he was
Miss Claire's sweetheart, and wish he were hers, for he did
look so lovely in his uniform and spurs.

As soon as Claire was alone she threw herself upon her
knees beside her bed, to rise up at the end of a minute, the
tears in her eyes, and a troubled look covering her handsome
face with gloom.

Then she hurried down, barely escaping Major Eockley,
who did contrive to raise his hat and direct a smile at her
before she was gone — darting in at the empty breakfast-room
door, and waiting there trembling till the Major had
passed the window and looked up in vain to see if she were
there.

What a coincidence,' she thought, as her heart beat
painfully, and a smarting blush came in her cheeks.

But the Major was gone ; there was no fear of encountering
him now; and she hurried into the kitchen, where a
handsome, bluff-looking, fair young man of goodly proportions,
who sat stiffly upright in his dragoon undress

uniform, was talking to Eliza, who moved from the table
against which she had been leaning, and left the kitchen.

Oh, Fred dear,' cried Claire, as the blond yomig soldier
rose from his chair, took her in his arms, and kissed her
tenderly.

Why, Claire, my pet, how are you ?' he cried ; and Eliza,
who had peeped through the key-hole, gave her foot a
spiteful stamp.

So miserable, Fred dear. But you must not come
here.'

Oh, I won't come to the front, and disgrace you all ; but
hang it, you might let me come to the back. Getting too
proud, I suppose.'

Fred ! don't talk so, dear. You hurt me.'

Well, I won't, pet. Bless you for a dear, sweet girl.
But it does seem hard.'

Then why not try and leave the service, Fred ? I'll save
all I can to try and buy you out, but you must help me.'

Bah ! Stuff, little one ! What's the good ? Suppose I
get my discharge, what's the good ? What can I do ? I
shall only take to the drink again. I'm not fit for anything
but a common soldier. No ; I must stop as I am. The
poor old governor meant well, Claire, but it was beggarly
work — flunkey work, and it disgusted me.'

Oh, Fred !'

Well, it did, little one. I was sick of the fashionable

starvation, and I suppose I was too fond of the drink, and
so I enlisted.'

But you don't drink much now, Fred.'

Don't get the chance, Httle one,' he said, with a bluff
laugh. * There, I'll keep away. I won't disgrace you
all.'

Dear Fred,' said Claire, crying softly.

And I won't talk bitterly to you, my pet. I say, didn't
I see the Major come in at the front ?'

Yes, dear. He went up to see Lady Teigne. She is at
home this afternoon.'

Oh, that's right. Didn't come to see you. Master
comes in at the front to see the countess ; Private James
Bell comes in at the back to see you, eh ?'

Fred, dear, you hurt me when you talk like this.'

Then I'll be serious. Eum thing I should drift into
being the Major's servant, isn't it ? Makes me know him,
though. I say, Claire, you're a beautiful girl, and there's
no knowing who may come courting.' '

Hush, Fred !'

Not I. Let me speak. Look here : our Major's one of
the handsomest men in the town, Prince's favourite, and all
that sort of thing ; but if ever he speaks to you, be on your
guard, for he's as big a scoundrel as ever breathed, and overhead
in debt.'

Don't be afraid, Fred,' said the girl, smiling.

I'm not, pet. So the old girl's at home, is she ?'

Yes.'

Sitting in her diamonds and lace, eh ?'

Claire nodded.

Wish I had some of them instead of that old cat — hang
her ! — for I'm awfully short of money. I say, dear, can
you let me have a few shillings ?'

Claire's white forehead wrinkled, and she looked at the
young soldier in a troubled way, as she drew a little bead
purse from her pocket, opened it, and poured five shillings
into the broad hand.

Thank ye,' he said coolly, as his eyes rested on the
purse. Then, starting up — ' Hang it, no,' he cried ; ' I
can't. Here, catch hold. Good - bye ; God bless
you!'

He thrust the money back into her hand, caught her in
his arms and kissed her, and before she could detain him he
was gone.

That afternoon and evening passed gloomily for Claire.
Her father, when he returned from his walk, was restless
and strange, and was constantly walking up and down the
room.

To make matters worse, her visitor of that afternoon
went by two or three times on the other side of the road,
gazing very attentively up at the house, and she was afraid
that their father might see him.

VOL. I. 3

Then Major Cockle went by, smoking a cigar, raised his
hat to her as he saw her at the window, and at the same
moment as she returned his salute she saw Private James
Bell on the other side, looking at her with a frown full of
reproach.

Bedtime came at last, after a serious encounter between
the Master of the Ceremonies and his son Morton for staying
out till ten. Claire had to go to Lady Teigne again to give
her the sleeping-draught she always took, eighty years not
having made her so weary that she could sleep ; and then
there was the wine-glass to half fill with water, and quite
fill with salad oil, so that a floating wick might burn till
morning.

Good-night, Lady Teigne,' said Claire softly.

There was no answer ; and the young girl bent over the
wreck of the fashionable beauty, thinking how Hke she
looked to death.

Midnight, and the tide going out, while the waves broke
restlessly upon the shingle, which they bathed with pallid
golden foam. The sea was black as ink, with diamonds
sparkling in it here and there reflected from the encrusted
sky ; and there was the glitter and sparkle of jewels in Lady
Teigne' s bedchamber, as two white hands softly lifted them
from the wrenched-open casket.

That floating wick in the glass of oil looked like the condensation

of some of the phosphorescence of the sea, and in
its Hight the jewels glittered ; but it ca-st as well a boldly-thrown
aquiline shadow on the chamber wall.

Ching !

The jewels fell back into the casket as a gasp came from
the bed, and the man saw the light of recognition in the
eyes that glared in his as the old woman sat up, holding
herself there with her supporting hands.

Ah !' she cried. 'You?'

The word ' Help !' — a harsh, wild cry — was half formed,
but only half, for in an instant she was dashed back, and
the great down pillow pressed over her face.

The tide was going out fast.

3—2

A NIGHT TO BE Remembered.

There was a flush on Claire Denville's cheek as she turned
restlessly upon her pillow. Her dreams were of pain and
trouble, and from time to time a sigh escaped her lips.

The rush light which burned in a socket set in the middle
of a tin cup of water, surrounded by a japanned cylinder
full of holes, sent curious shadows and feeble rays about
the plainly furnished room, giving everything a weird and
ghostly look as the thin rush candle burned slowly
down.

All at once she started up, listened, and remained there,,
hardly breathing. Then, as if not satisfied, she rose,
hurriedly dressed herself, and, lighting a candle, went down
to Lady Teigne's room.

The position had been unsought, but had been forced
upon her by the exacting old woman, and by degrees Claire
had found herself personal attendant, and liable to be called
up at any moment during one of the many little attacks

that the great sapper and miner made upon the weak
fortress, tottering to its fall.

Was it fancy, or had she heard Lady Teigne
call ?

It seemed to Claire, as she descended, that she had been
lying in an oppressive dream, listening to call after call, but
unable to move and master the unseen force that held her
down.

She paused as she reached the landing, with the drawing-room
door on her right. Lady Teigne' s bedroom before her,
and, down a short passage on her left, her father's room.
Isaac slept in his pantry, by the empty plate-chest and the
wingless cellar. Morton's room was next her own, on the
upper floor, and the maids slept at the back.

The only sound to be heard was the faint wash of the
waves as they curled over upon the shingle where the tide
was going out.

It must have been fancy,' said Claire, after listening
intently ; and she stood there with the light throwing up
the eager look upon her face, with her lips half parted, and
a tremulous motion about her well-cut nostrils as her bosom
rose and fell.

Then, drawing a breath full of relief, she turned to go,
the horror that had assailed her dying off ; for ever since
Lady Teigne had been beneath their roof, Claire had been
haunted by the idea that some night she would be called up

at a time when the visit her ladyship insisted in every act
was so far off had been paid.

Feeing for the moment, then, satisfied that she had been
deceived, Claire ascended three or four stairs, her sweet
face growing composed, and the soft, rather saddened smile
that generally sat upon her lips gradually returning, whenas
if moved by a fresh impulse, she descended again, listened,
and then softly turned the handle of the door, and
entered.

She did not close the door behind her, only letting it swing
to, and then, raising the candle above her head, glanced
round.

There was nothing to take her attention.

The curtain of the bed was drawn along by the head, and
in an untidy way, leaving the end of the bolster exposed.
But that only indicated that the fidgety, querulous old
woman had fancied she could feel a draught from the folding
doors that led into the drawing-room, and she had often
drawn them like that before.

She is fast asleep,' thought Claire.

The girl was right ; Lady Teigne was fast asleep.

If I let the light fall upon her face it will wake her,' she
said to herself.

But it was an error ; the light Claire Denville carried was
too dim for that. Still she hesitated to approach the bedside,
knowing that unless she took her opiate medicine Lady

Teigiie's night's rest was of a kind that rendered her peevish
and irritable the whole of the next day, and as full of whims
as some fretful child

She seemed to be sleeping so peacefully that Claire once
more glanced round the room prior to returning to
bed.

The folding-doors were closed so that there could be no
draught. The glass of lemonade was on the little table on
the other side of the bed, on which ticked the little old
carriage clock, for Lady Teigne was always anxious about
the lapse of time. The jewel-casket was on the

No : the jewel-casket was not on the dressing-table, and
with a spasm of dread shooting through her, Claire Denville
stepped quietly to the bedside, drew back the curtain,
holding the candle above her head, let fall the curtain and
staggered back with her eyes staring with horror, her lips
apart, and her breath held for a few moments, but to come
again with a hoarse sob.

She did not shriek aloud ; she did not faint. She stood
there with her face thrust forward, her right arm crooked
and extended as if in the act of drawing back the curtain,
and her left hand still holding the candlestick above her head
stiffened as it were by horror into the position, and gazing
still toward the bed.

That hoarse sob, that harsh expiration of the breath
seemed to give her back her power of movement, and,

turning swiftly, she ran from the room and down the short
passage to raro quickly at her father's door.

Papa ! Papa !' she cried, in a hoarse whisper, trembling
now in every limb, and gazing with horror-stricken face over
her shoulder, as if she felt that she was being pursued.

Almost directly she heard a faint clattering sound of a
glass rattling on the top of the water-bottle as someone
crossed the room, the night-bolt was raised, the door opened,
and the Master of the Ceremonies stood there, tall and thin,
with his white hands tightly holding his long dressing-gown
across his chest.

His face was ghastly as he gazed at Claire. There was a
thick dew over his forehead, so dense that it glistened in
the light of the candle, and made his grey hair cling to his
white temples.

He had evidently not been undressed, for his stiff white
cravat was still about his neck, and the silken strings of his
pantaloons were still tied at the ankles. Moreover, the large
signet-ring that had grown too large for his thin finger had
not been taken off. It was as if he had hastily thrown off
his coat, and put on his dressing-gown ; but, though the
night was warm, he was shivering, his lower lip trembling,
and he had hard work to keep his teeth from chattering
together like the glass upon the carafe.

Father,' cried Claire, catching him by the breast, ' then
you have heard something ?'

'Heard — heard something?' he stammered; and then,
seeming to make an effort to recover his sang froid, ' heard
something? Yes — you — startled me.'

But — but — oh, papa ! It is too horrible !'
She staggered, and had to hold by him to save herself from
falling. But recovering somewhat, she held him by one
hand, then thrust herself away, looking the trembling man
wildly in the face.

Did you not hear — that cry?'

No,' he said hastily, ' no. What is the matter?'

Lady Teigne ! Quick ! Oh, father, it cannot be true !'

Lady — Lady Teigne ?' he stammered, ' is — is she — is she
ill?'

She is dead — she is dead !' wailed Claire.

No, no ! No, no ! Impossible !' cried the old man, who
was shivering visibly.

It is true,' said Claire. ' No, no, it cannot be. I must
be wrong. Quick ! It may be some terrible lit !'

She clung to his hand, and tried to hurry him out of the
room, but he drew back.

No,' he stammered, ' not yet. Your — your news — agitated
me, Claire. Does — wait a minute — does anyone — in the —
in the house know ?'

No, dear. I thought I heard a cry, and I came down,
and she '

A fit,' he said hastily, as he took the glass from the top

of the water-bottle, filled it, gulped the water down, and
set bottle and glass back m the places. ' A fit — yes — a
fit.'

Come with me, father, quick !' cried Claire.

Yes. Yes, I'll go with you — directly,' he said, fumbling
for his handkerchief in the tail of the coat thrown over the
chair, finding his snuff-box, and taking a great pinch.

Come, pray come !' she cried again, as she gazed at him
in a bewildered way, his trembling becoming contagious, and
her lips quivering with a new dread greater than the horror
at the end of the passage.

Yes — yes,' he faltered — ' I'll come. So alarming to be
woke up — like this — in the middle of the night. Shall I — ■
shall I ring, Claire ? Or will you call the maids ?'

Come with me first,' cried Claire. * It may not be too
late.'

Yes,' he cried, * it is — it is too late.'
Father !'

You — you said she was dead,' he cried hastily. * Yes —
yes — let us go. Perhaps only a fit. Come.'

He seemed to be now as eager to go as he had been to
keep back, and, holding his child's hand tightly, he hurried
with her to Lady Teigne's apartment, where he paused on
the mat to draw a long, catching breath.

The next moment the door had swung to behind them, and
father and daughter stood gazing one at the other.

Don't, don't,' he cried, in a low, angry voice, as he
turned from her. * Don't look at me like that, Claire. What
what do you want me to do ?'

Claire turned her eyes from him to gaze straight before
her in a curiously dazed manner ; and then, \^'ithout a word,
she crossed to the bedside and drew back the curtain, fixing
her father hath. her eyes once more.

*Look!' she said, in a harsh whisper; 'quick! See
whether we are in time.'

The old man uttered a curious supplicating cry, as if in
remonstrance against the command that forced him to act,
and, as if in his sleep, and with his eyes fixed upon those of
his child, he walked up close to the bed, bent over it a
moment, and then with a shudder he snatched the curtain
from Claire's hand, and thrust it down.

Dead !' he said, with a gasp. * Dead !'

There was an awful silence in the room for a few moments,
during which the ticking of the little clock on the table
beyond the bed sounded painfully loud, and the beat of the
waves amid the shingle rose into a loud roar.

Father, she has been '

Hush !' he half shrieked, * don't say so. Oh, my child,
my child !'

Claire trembled, and it was as though a mutual attraction
drew them to gaze fixedly the one at the other, in spite of
every effort to tear their eyes away.

At last, with a wrench, the old man turned his head aside,
and Claire uttered a low moan as she glanced from him to
the bed and then back towards the window.

Ah !' she cried, starting forward, and, bending down beside
the dressing-table, she picked up the casket that was
lying half hidden by drapery upon the floor.

But the jewel casket was quite empty, and she set it down
upon the table. It had been wrenched open with a chisel
or knife-blade, and the loops of the lock had been torn
out.

Shall we — a doctor — the constables ?' he stammered.

I — I do not know,' said Claire hoarsely, acting like one
in a dream; and she staggered forward, kicking against
something that had fallen near the casket.

She involuntarily stooped to pick it up, but it had been
jerked by her foot nearer to her father, who bent down with
the quickness of a boy and snatched it up, hiding it hastily
beneath his dressing-gown, but not so quickly that Claire
could not see that it was a great clasp-knife.

What is that ?' she cried sharply.

Nothing — nothing,' he said.

They stood gazing at each other for a few moments, and
then the old man uttered a hoarse gasp.

Did— did you see what I picked up ?' he whispered ; and
he caught her arm with his trembling hand.
Yes ; it was a knife.'

No,' he cried wildly. * No ; you saw nothing. You did
not see nie pick up that knife.'

I did, father said Claire, shrinking from him with an
invincible repugnance.

You did not,' he whispered. * You dare not say you did,
when I say be silent.'

Oh, father ! father !' she cried with a burst of agony.

It means life or death,' he whispered, grasping her arm
so tightly that his fingers seemed to be turned to iron.
Come,' he cried with more energy, ' hold the light.'

He crossed the room and opened the folding-doors, going
straight into the drawing-room, when the roar of the surf
upon the shore grew louder, and as Claire involuntarily
followed, she listened in a heavy-dazed way as her father
pointed out that a chair had been overturned, and that the
window was open and one of the flower-pots in the balcony
upset.

The jasmine is torn away from the post and balustrade,'
he said huskily ; ' someone must have climbed up there.'

Claire did not speak, but listened to him as he grew more
animated now, and talked quickly.

Let us call up Isaac and Morton,' he said. ' We must
have help. The doctor should be fetched, and — and a
constable.'

Claire gazed at him wildly.

Did — did you hear anything ?' he said hurriedly, as he
closed the folding-doors.

I was asleep,' said Claire, starting and shuddering as she
heard his words. ' I thought I heard a cry.'

Yes, a cry,' he said ; ' I thought I heard a cry and I
dressed quickly and was going to see, when — when you
came to me. Recollect that you will be called up to speak,
my child — an inquest — that is all you know. You went in
and found Lady Teigne dead, and you came and summoned
me. That is all you know.'

She did not answer, and he once more gripped her fiercely
by the wrist.

Do you hear me ?' he cried. * I say that is all you
know.'

She looked at him again without answering, and he left
her to go and summon Morton and the footman.

Claire stood in the drawing-room, still holding the candlestick
in her hand, with the stiffening form of the solitary
old woman, whose flame of life had been flickering so
weakly in its worldly old socket that the momentary
touch of the extinguisher had been sufficient to put it outlying
just beyond those doors ; on the other hand the roar
of the falling tide faintly heard now through the closed
window. She heard her father knocking at the door of her
brother's room. Then she heard the stairs creak as he
descended to call up the footman from the pantry below ;
and as she listened everything seemed strange and unreal,
and she could not believe that a horror had fallen upon

them that should make a hideous gulf between her and her
father for ever, blast her young life so that she would never
dare again to give her innocent love to the man by whom
she knew she was idolised, and make her whole future a
terror — a terror lest that which she felt she knew must be
discovered, if she, weak woman that she was, ever inadvertently
spoke what was life and light to her — the truth.

My God ! What shall I do ?'

It was a wild passionate cry for help where she felt that
help could only be, and then, with her brain swimming, and
a horrible dread upon her, she was about to open her lips
and denounce her own father — the man who gave her life — •
as a murderer and robber of the dead. She turned to the
door as it opened, and, deadly pale, but calm and firm now,
Stuart Denville, Master of the Ceremonies at Saltinville,
entered the room.

He uttered a low cry, and started forward to save he",
but he was too late. Claire had fallen heavily upon her
face, her hands outstretched, and the china candlestick she
still held was shattered to fragments upon the floor.

At that moment, as if in mockery, a sweet, low chord of
music rose from without, below the window, and floating
away on the soft night air, the old man felt the sweet
melody thrill his very nerves as he sank upon his knees
beside his child.

A GHASTLY SERENADE .

Gentlemen,' said Colonel Lascelles, * I am an old fogey,
and I never break my rules. At my time of life a man
wants plenty of sleep, so I must ask you to excuse me.
Eockley shall take my place, and I beg — I insist — that none
will stir. Smith, send the Major's servant to see if he is
better.'

A smart-looking dragoon, who had been acting the part
of butler at the mess table, saluted.

Beg pardon, sir, James Bell is sick.'

Drunk, you mean, sir,' cried the Colonel angrily. ' Confound
the fellow ! he is always tippling the mess wine.'

Small blame to him. Colonel,' said the Adjutant with
tipsy gravity ; * 'tis very good.'

And disagreed with his master early in the evening,'
said the Doctor.

Here there was a roar of laughter, in which the grey-headed
Colonel joined.

Well, gentlemen, we must not be hard,' he said. * Here,
Smith, my compliments to Major Eockley, and if he is
better, say we shall be glad to see him.'

Beg pardon, sir,' said the man, ' here is the Major.'

At that moment the gentleman in question entered the
room, and the brilliant illumination of the table gave a far
better opportunity for judging his appearance than the
blind-drawn gloom of Lady Teigne's drawing-room. He
was a strikingly handsome dark man, with a fierce black
moustache that seemed to divide his face in half, and then
stood out beyond each cheek in a black tuft, hair Highly
pomatum and curled, and bright black eyes that seemed
to flash from beneath his rather overhanging brows. Five-and-thirty
was about his age, and he looked it all, time or
dissipation having drawn a good many fine lines, like
tracings of future wrinkles, about the corners of his eyes
and mouth.

Colonel — gentlemen, a hundred apologies,' he said. ' I'm
not often taken like this. We must have a fresh mess-man.
Our cooking is execrable.'

And your digestion so weak,' said the Doctor, sipping his
sort.

There, there,' said the Colonel hastily. ' I want to get
to bed. Take my place, Eockley ; keep them alive. Goodnight,
gentlemen ; I know you'll excuse me. Good-night.'

The Colonel left his seat, faced round, stood very stiffly

VOL. I. 4

for a few moments, and then walked straight out of the
room, while Major Eockley, who was still far from sober,
took his place.

A good many bottles of port had been consumed that
night, for in those days it was an English gentleman's duty
to pay attention to his port, and after turning exceedingly
poorly, and having to quit the table, the Major began by
trying to make up for the past in a manner that would now
be classed as loud.

Gentlemen, pray — pray, pass the decanters,' he cried.
« Colonel Mellersh, that port is not to your liking. Smith,
some more claret? Mr. Linnell, 'pon honour, you know
you must not pass the decanter without filling your glass.
Eeally, gentlemen, I am afraid our guests are disappointed
at the absence of Colonel Lascelles, and because a certain
gentleman has not honoured us to-night. A toast, gentlemen
: H.E.H.'

H.E.H.' was chorused as every officer and guest rose at
the dark, highly-polished mahogany table, liberally garnished
with decanters, bottles, and fruit ; and, with a good deal of
demonstration, glasses were waved in the air, a quantity of
rich port was spilled, and the fact was made very evident
that several of the company had had more than would leave
them bright and clear in the morning.

The mess-room of the Light Dragoon Regiment was handsome
and spacious ; several trophies of arms and colours

decorated the walls ; that unusual military addition, a conservatory,
opened out of one side; and in it, amongst the
flowers, the music-stands of the excellent band that had
been playing during dinner were still visible, though the
bandsmen had departed when the cloth was drawn.

The party consisted of five-and-twenty, many being in
uniform, with their open blue jackets displaying their scarlet
dress vests with the ridge of pill-sized buttons closely packed
from chin to waist ; and several of the wearers of these scarlet
vests were from time to time pouring confidences into their
neighbours' ears, the themes being two : ' The cards ' and
She.'

Colonel Mellersh, I am going to ask you to sing,' said
Major Rockley, after taking a glass of port at a draught,
and looking a little less pale.

He turned to a striking-looking personage at his right
a keen, aquiline-featured man, with closely-cut, iron-grey
hair, decisive, largish mouth with very white teeth, and
piercing dark grey eyes which had rather a sinister look
from the peculiarity of his fierce eyebrows, which seemed to
go upwards from where they nearly joined.

I'm afraid my voice is in no singing trim,' said the
Colonel, in a quick, loud manner.

Come, no excuses,' cried a big heavy-faced, youngish
man from the bottom of the long table — a gentleman already
introduced to the reader in Lady Teigne's drawing-room.

J,. OF ILL LIB.

No excuse, Sir Matt,' cried the Colonel ; ' only an
apology for the quality of what I am about to sing.'

There was a loud tapping and clinking of glasses, and
then the Colonel trolled forth in a sweet tenor voice an
anacreontic song about women, and sparkling wine, and
eyes divine, and flowing bowls, and joyous souls, and ladies
bright, as dark as night, and ladies rare, as bright as fair, and
so on, and so on, the whole being listened to with the deepest
attention and the greatest of satisfaction by a body of gentlemen
whose thoughts at the moment, if not set upon women
and wine, certainly were upon wine and women.

It was curious to watch the effect of the song upon the
occupants of the different chairs. The Major sat back
slightly flushed, gazing straight before him at the bright
face he conjured up ; Sir Matthew Bray leaned forward, and
bent and swayed his great handsome Roman-looking head
and broad shoulders in solemn satisfaction, and his nearest
neighbour. Sir Harry Payne, the handsome, effeminate and
dissipated young dragoon, tapped the table with his delicate
fingers and showed his white teeth. The stout Adjutant
bent his chin down over his scarlet waistcoat and stared
fiercely at the ruby scintillations in the decanter before him.
The gentleman on his left, an insignificant-looking little
civilian with thin, fair hair, screwed up his eyes and drew
up his lips in what might have been a smile or a sneer, and
stared at the gentleman on the Major's left, holding himself

a little sidewise so as to peer between one of the silver
branches and the epergne.

The young man at whom he stared was worth a second
look, as he leaned forward with his elbows upon the table
and his head on one side, his cheek leaning upon his
clasped hands.

He was fair with closely curling hair, broad forehead,
dark eyes, and what was very unusual in those days, his
face was innocent of the touch of a razor, his nut-brown
beard curing closely and giving him rather a peculiar
appearance among the scented and closely-shaven dandies
around.

As the song went on he kept his eyes fixed on Colonel
Mellersh, but the words had no charm for him : he was
thinking of the man who sang, and of the remarkable
qualities of his voice, uttering a sigh of satisfaction and sinking
back in his seat as the song ended and there was an
abundance of applause.

Come,' cried Major Eockley, starting up again ; ' I have
done so well this time, gentlemen, that I shall call upon my
friend here, Mr. Linnell, to give us the next song.'

Indeed, I would with pleasure,' said the young man,
colouring slightly ; * but Colonel Mellersh there will tell you
I never sing.'

No ; Linnell never sings, but he's a regular Orpheus with
his lute or pipe — I mean the fiddle and the flute.'

Then perhaps he will charm us, and fancy he has come
into the infernal regions for the nonce ; only, 'fore gad,
gentlemen, I am not the Pluto who has carried off his
Eurydice.'

Eeally, this is so unexpected,' said the young man, ' and
I have no instrument.'

Oh, some of your bandsmen have stringed instruments,
Eockley.'

Yes, yes, of course,' cried the Major. ' What is it to be,
Mr. Linnell? We can give you anything. Why not getup
a quintette, and let Matt Bray there take the drum, and
charming Sir Harry Payne the cymbals ?'

Play something, Dick,' said Colonel Mellersh quietly.

Yes, of course,' said the young man. ' Will you help

mer



Oh, if you like,' said the Colonel. * Cockle, ask your
men to lend us a couple of instruments.'

Eeally, my dear fellow, we haven't a lute in the regiment.'


I suppose not,' said the Colonel dryly. ' A couple of
violins will do. Here, my man, ask for a violin and
viola.'

The military servant saluted and went out, and to fill up
the time Major Eockley proposed a toast.

With bumpers, gentlemen. A toast that every man will
drink. Are you ready ?'

There was a jingle of glasses, the gurgle of wine, and then
a scattered volley of * Yes !'

Her bright eyes !' said the Major, closing his own and
kissing his hand.

Her bright eyes !' cried everyone but the Adjutant, who
growled out a malediction on somebody's eyes.

Then the toast was drunk with three times three, there
was the usual clattering of glasses as the gentlemen resumed
their seats, and some of those who had paid most attention
to the port began with tears in their eyes to expatiate on
the charms of some special reigning beauty, receiving confidences
of a like nature. Just then, the two instruments
were brought and handed to the Colonel and Eichard
Linnell, a sneering titter going round the table, and
a whisper about * fiddlers ' making the latter flush
angrily.

'Yes, gentlemen, fiddlers,' said Colonel Mellersh quietly;
and it requires no little skill to play so grand and old an
instrument. I'll take my note from you, Dick.'

Flushing more deeply with annoyance, Eichard Linnell
drew his bow across the A string, bringing forth a sweet
pure note that thrilled through the room, and made one of
the glasses ring.

That's right,' said the Colonel. ' I wish your father
were here. What's it to be ?'

What you like,' said Linnell, whose eyes were wandering

about the table, as if in search of the man who would
dare to laugh and call him ' fiddler ' again.

Something simple that we know.'

Linnell nodded.

Eeady, gentlemen,' said the Major, with a sneering look
at Sir Harry Payne. ' Silence, please, ye demons of the
nether world. "Hark, the lute!" No: that's the wrong
quotation. Now, Colonel — Mr. Linnell, we are all attention.'


Eichard Linnell felt as if he would have liked to box the
Major's ears with the back of the violin he held ; but,
mastering his annoyance, he stood up, raised it to his
shoulder, and drew the bow across the strings, playing in
the most perfect time, and with the greatest expression, the
first bars of a sweet old duet, the soft mellow viola taking
up the seconds ; and then, as the players forgot all present
in the sweet harmony they were producing, the notes came
pouring forth in trills, or sustained delicious, long-drawn
passages from two fine instruments, handled by a couple of
masters of their art.

As they played on sneers were changed for rapturous
admiration, and at last, as the final notes rang through the
room in a tremendous vibrating chord that it seemed could
never have been produced by those few tightly-drawn strings,
there was a furious burst of applause, glasses were broken,
decanters hammered the table, and four men who had sunk

beneath, suffering from too many bottles, roused up for the
moment to shout ere they sank asleep again, while the
Major excitedly stretched out his hand first to one and then
to the other of the performers.

Gentlemen,' he cried at last, hammering the table to
obtain order, * I am going to ask a favour of our talented
guests. This has come upon me like a revelation. Such
music is too good for men.'

'Hear! hear! hear! hear!' came in chorus.

It is fit only for the ears of those we love.'

Hear ! — hear ! — hear ! — hear !'

We have drunk their health, to-night ; each the health
of the woman of his heart.'

Hear ! — hear ! — hear ! — hear !'

xlnd now, as we have such music, I am going to beg our
guests to come with us and serenade a lady whose name I
will not mention.'

Hear ! — hear ! — hurrah !'

It is the lady I am proud to toast, and I ask the favour
of you, Colonel Mellersh, of you, Mr. Linnell, to come and
play that air once through beneath her window.'

Oh, nonsense, Cockle. My dear fellow, no,' cried the
.Colonel.

My dear Mellersh,' said the Major with half-tipsy
gravity. ' My dear friend; and you, my dear friend Linnell,
I pray you hear me. It may man much more than you

can tell — the happiness of niy life Come, my dear fellow,
you'll not refuse.'

What do you say, Linnell ?' cried the Colonel .


Oh, it is so absurd,' said Linnell warmly.

No, no, not absurd,' said the Major sternly. ' I beg
you'll not refuse.'

Humour him, Dick,' said the Colonel in a whisper.

You are telling him not to play,' said the Major fiercely.
My dear fellow, no : I was asking him to consent.

Humour him, Dick,' said the Colonel. ' It's nearly two,
and there'll be no one about. If we refuse it may mean a
quarrel.'

I'll go if you wish it,' said Eichard Linnell quietly.

All right. Major ; we'll serenade your lady in good old
Spanish style,' said the Colonel laughingly. * Quick, then,
at one 3. How far is it ?'

'Not far,' cried the Major. 'Who will come? Bray,
Payne, and half a dozen more. Will you be one, Burnett
?'

No, not I,' said the little, fair man with the sneering
smile ; ' I shall stay ;' and he gave effect to his words by
sinking back in his chair and then gliding softly beneath the
table.

Just as you like,' said the Major, and the result was that
a party of about a dozen sallied out of the barrack mess-room,

crossed the yard, and were allowed to pass by the
sentry on duty, carbine on arm.

It was a glorious night, and as they passed out into the
fresh, pure air and came in sight of the golden-spangled sea,
which broke amongst the shingle with a low dull roar, the
blood began to course more quickly through Linnell's veins,
the folly of the adventure was forgotten, and a secret wish
that he and the Colonel were alone and about to play some
sweet love ditty, beneath a certain window, crossed his
brain.

For there was something in the time there, beneath the
stars that were glitteringly reflected in the sea ! Did she
love him? Would she ever love him? he thought, and he
walked on in a sweet dream of those waking moments, forgetful
of the Major, and hearing nothing of the conversation
of his companions, knowing nothing but the fact that he was
a man of seven and twenty, whose thoughts went hourly
forth to dwell upon one on whom they had long been fixed,
although no words had passed, and he had told himself too
often that he dare not hope.

Who is the Major's Gloriana, Dick ?' asked the Colonel
suddenly. * By Jove, I think we had better tune up a jig.
It would be far more suited to the woman he would choose
than one of our young composer's lovely strains.'

I don't know. He's going towards our place. Can it
be Cora Dean ?'

Hang him, no,' said the Colonel pettishly. * Perhaps
so, though. I hope not, or we shall have your father calling
us idiots — deservedly so — for our pains. Wrong, Dick ; the
old man will sleep in peace. Will it be Drelincourt ?'

Madame Pontardent, perhaps.'

No, no, no, my lad ; he's going straight along. How
lovely the sea looks !'

And how refreshing it is after that hot, noisy room.' '

Insufferable. What fools men are to sit and drink when
they might play whist !'

And win money,' said Linnell drily.

To be sure, my lad. Oh, you'll come to it in time.
Where the dickens is he going? Who can the lady
be?'

The Major evidently knew, for he was walking smartly
ahead, in earnest converse with half a dozen more. Then
came the Colonel and his companion, and three more of the
party brought up the rear.

The Major's course was still by the row of houses that
faced the sea, now almost without a light visible, and
Eichard Linnell was dreamily watching the waves that
looked like liquid gold as they rose, curved over and broke
upon the shingle, when all the blood seemed to rush at once
to his heart, and then ebb away, leaving him choking and
paralyzed, for the Colonel suddenly said aloud :

Claire Denville !'

And he saw that then host of the night had stopped before
the house of the Master of the Ceremonies.

The blood began to flow again, this time with a big wave
of passionate rage in Richard Linnell's breast. He was
fm-ious. How dared that handsome Libertine profane Claire
Denville by even thinking of her ? How dared he bring him
there, to play beneath the window — the window he had so
often watched, and looked upon as a sacred temple — the
resting-place of her he loved.

He was ready to seize the Major by the throat ; to fight
for her ; to say anything ; to dash down the instrument in
his rage ; to turn and flee ; but the next moment the cool,
calm voice of the Colonel brought him to his senses, and he
recalled that this was his secret — his alone — this secret of
his love.

I did not know the Major was warm there. Well, shea
handsome girl, and he's welcome, I dare say.'

Linnell felt ready to choke again, but he could not speak.
He must get out of this engagement, though, at any cost.

As he was musing, though, he found himself drawn as it
were to where the Major and his friends were standing in
front of the silent house, and the Colonel said :

Come, my lad, let's run through the piece, and get home
to bed. I'm too old for such tom-fool tricks as these.'

I will not play ! It is an insult ! It is madness !' thought
Eichard Linnell ; and then, as if in a dream, he found himself

the centre of a group, fuming at what he was doing,
while, as if in spite of his rage, he was drawing the sweet
echoing strains from the violin, listening to the harmonies
added by his friend, and all in a nightmare-like fashion,
playing involuntarily on, and gazing at the windows he had
so often watched.

On, on, on, the notes poured forth, throbbing on the night-ir,
sounding pensive, sweet and love-inspiring, maddening
too, as he tried to check his thoughts, and played with more
inspiration all the while till the last bar, with its diminuendo,
was reached, and he stood there, palpitating, asking himself
why he had done this thing, and waiting trembling in his
jealous rage, lest any notice should be taken of the compliment
thus paid.

Did Claire Denville encourage the Major — that libertine
whose amours were one of the scandals of the place ? Oh,
it was impossible. She would not have heard the music.
If she had she would have thought it from some wanderers,
for she had never heard him play. She would not notice it.
She would not heed it. In her virgin youth and innocency
it was a profanation to imagine that Claire Denville — sweet,
pure Claire Denville — the woman he worshipped, could notice
such an attention. No, it was impossible she would ; and
his eyes almost started as he gazed at the white-curtained
windows, looking so solemn and so strange.

No, no, no ; she would not notice, even if she had heard,

nd a strange feeling of elation came into the jealous
breast.

Come,' he said hoarsely, ' let us go.'

One moment, lad. Ah, yes,' said the Colonel. ' Gloriana
has heard the serenade, and is about to respond to her lover's
musically amatory call. Look, Dick, look.'

Eichard Linnell's heart sank, for a white arm drew back
the curtain, and then the catch of the window fastening was
pressed back, and a chord in the young man's breast seemed
to snap ; but it was only the spring of the window lias.

Click!

AFTER THE STORM.

The ' ghastly serenade ' it was called at Saltinville as the
facts became known.

That night Eichard Linnell was standing with his teeth
set, his throat dry, and a feeling of despair making his heart
seem to sink, watching the white hand that was waved as
soon as the sash was opened. Half blind with the blood
that seemed to rush to his eyes, he glared at the window.
Then a sudden revulsion of feeling came over him as a
familiar voice that was not Claire's cried, 'Help! — a doctor!'
and then the speaker seemed to stagger away.

The rest was to Eichard Linnell like some dream of horror,
regarding which he recalled the next morning that he had
thundered at the door, that he had helped to carry Claire to
her room, and that he had afterwards been one of the group
who stood waiting in the dining-room until the doctor came
down to announce that Miss Denville was better — that Lady
Teigne was quite dead.

Then they had stolen out on tiptoe, and in the stillness of
the early morning shaken hands all round and separated, the
Major remaining with them, and walking with Colonel
Mellersh and Eichard Linnell to their door.

What a horror !' he said hoarsely. * I would not for the
world have taken you two there had I known. Good-night
good-morning, I should say;' and he, too, said those
words — perhaps originated the saying — ' What a ghastly
serenade I'

Nine days — they could spare no more in Saltinville, for it
would have spoiled the season — nine days' wonder, and then
the news that a certain royal person was coming down, news
blown by the trumpet of Fame with her attendants, raised
up enough wind to sweep away the memory of the horror
on the Parade.

She was eighty if she was a day,' said Sir Matthew Bray :
and it was quite time the old wretch did die.'

Nice way of speaking of a lady whose relative you are
seeking to be,' said Sir Harry Payne. * Sweet old nymph.
How do you make it fit, Matt ?'

Fit ? Some scoundrel of a London tramp scaled the
balcony, they say. Fine plunder, the rascal ! All those
diamonds.'

Which she might have left her sister, and then perhaps
they would have come to you. Matt.'

Don't talk stuff.'

VOL. I. O

Stuff? Why, you are besieging the belle. But, I say, I
have my own theory about that murder.'

Eh, have you ?' cried the great dragoon, staring open-mouthed.


Egad ! yes, Matt. It was not a contemptible robbery.'
Wasn't it ? You don't say so.'

But I do,' cried Sir Harry seriously. ' Case of serious,
jealousy on the part of some lover of the bewitching creature.
He came i' the dead o' night and smothered the Desdemona
with a pillow. What do you say, Eockley?'

The Major had strolled across the mess-room and heard
these words.

Bah ! Don't ridicule the matter,' he said. * Change the
subject.'

As you like, but the feeble flame only wanted a momentary
touch of the extinguisher and it was gone.'

At the house on the Parade there had been terrible anguish,
and Claire Denville suffered painfully as she passed through
the ordeal of the examination that ensued.

But everything was very straightforward and plain. There
were the marks of some one having climbed up the pillar —
an easy enough task. The window opened without difficulty
from without, a pot or two lay overturned in the balcony, a
chair in the drawing-room, evidently the work of some
stranger, and the valuable suite of diamonds was gone.

The constable arrested three men of the street tumbler

and wandering vagrant type, who were examined, proved
easily that they were elsewhere ; and after the vote of condolence
to our esteemed fellow-townsman, Stuart Denville,
Esq., which followed the inquest, there seemed nothing more
to be done but to bury Lady Teigne, which was accordingly
done, and the principal undertaker cleared a hundred pounds
by the grand funeral that took place, though it was quite a
year before Lady Drelincourt would pay the whole of his
bill.

So with Lady Teigne the horror was buried too, and in a
fortnight the event that at one time threatened to interfere
with the shopkeepers' and lodging-letters' season was forgotten.


For that space of time, too, the familiar figure of the
Master of the Ceremonies was not seen upon the Parade.
Miss Danville was very ill, it was said, and after the funeral
Isaac had to work hard at answering the door to receive the
rainy cards that were left by fashionable people, till there
was quite a heap in the old china bowl that stood in the
narrow hall.

But the outside world knew nothing of the agonies of
mind endured by the two principal occupants of that house
of the nights of sleepless horror passed by Claire as she
knelt and prayed for guidance, and of the hours during
which the Master of the Ceremonies sat alone, staring
blankly before him as if at some scene which he was ever

5—2

"witnessing, and which seemed to wither him, mind and
body, at one stroke.

For that fortnight, save at the inquest, father and
daughter had not met, but passed their time in their rooms.
But the time was gliding on, and they had to meet — the
question occurring to each — how was it to be ?

I must leave it to chance,' thought the Master of the
Ceremonies, with a shiver; and after a fierce struggle to
master the agony he felt, he knew that in future he must
lead two lives. So putting on his mask, he one morning
walked down to the breakfast-room, and took his accustomed
place.

Outwardly he seemed perfectly calm, and, save that the
lines about his temples and the corners of his lips seemed
deeper, he was little changed ; but as he walked he was
conscious of a tremulous feeling in the knees, and even
when seated, that the curious palsied sensation went
on.

On the previous night Morton had come in from a secret
fishing excursion, to find the house dark and still, and he
had stood with his hands in his pockets hesitating as to
whether he should go and take a lesson in smoking with
Isaac in the pantry, steal down to the beach, or creep upstairs.

He finally decided on the latter course, and going up to
the top of the house on tip-toe, he tapped softly at Claire's
bedroom door.

It was opened directly by his sister, who had evidently
just risen from an old dimity-covered easy-chair. She was
in a long white dressing-gown, and, seen by the light of the
one tallow candle on the table, she looked so pale and
ghastly that the lad uttered an ejaculation and caught hold
of her thin, cold hands.

Claire ! — Sis !'

They were the first warm words of sympathy she had
heard since that horrible night ; and in a moment the icy
horror upon her face broke up, her lips quivered, and, throwing
her arms around her brother's neck, she burst into such
a passion of hysterical sobbing that, as he held her to his
breast, he grew alarmed.

He had stepped into the little white room where the
flower screen stood out against the night sky, and as the
door swung to, he had felt Claire sinking upon her knees,
and imitating her action, he had held her there for sometime
till the attitude grew irksome, and then sank lower till
he was seated on the carpet, holding his sister half-reclining
across his breast.

Oh ! don't — don't, Claire — Sis,' he whispered from time
to time, as he kissed the quivering lips, and strove in his
boyish way to soothe her. ' Sis dear, you'll give yourself
such a jolly headache. Oh, I say, what's the good of crying
like that ?'

For answer she only clung the tighter, the pent-up agony

escaping in her tears, though she kissed him passionately
again and again, and nestled to his breast.

You'll make yourself ill, you know,' he whispered. ' I
say, don't. The dad's ill, and you'll upset him more.'

Still she sobbed on and wept, the outburst saving her
from some more terrible mental strain.

I wanted to come and comfort you,' he said. ' I did not
know you'd go on like this.'

She could not tell him that he was comforting her ; that
she had been tossed by a horrible life-storm that threatened
to wreck her reason, and that when she had lain longing for
the sympathy of the sister who now kept away, saying it
was too horrible to come there now, she had found no life-buoy
to which to ching. And now her younger brother had
come — the elder forbidden the house — and the intensity of
the relief she felt was extreme.

Here, I can't stand this,' he said at last, almost roughly.
I shall go down and send Ike for the doctor.'

She clung to him in an agony of dread lest he should go,
and her sobs grew less frequent.

Come, that's better,' he said, and he went on in his
rough boyish selfishness, talking of his troubles and ignoring
those of others, unconsciously strengthening Claire, as he
awakened her to a sense of the duties she owed him, and
giving her mental force for the terrible meeting and struggle
that was to come.

For she dared not think. She shrank from mentally
arguing out those two questions of duty — to society and to
her father.

Was she to speak and tell all she knew ?

Was she to be silent?.

All she could do was to shrink within herself, and try to
make everything pass out of her thoughts while she was
sinking into the icy chains of idiocy.

But now, when she had been giving up completely, and at
times gazing out to sea with horrible thoughts assailing her,
and suggestions like temptations to seek for oblivion as the
only escape from the agony she suffered, the life-raft had
reached her hands, and she clung to it with all the tenacity
of one mentally drowning fast.

There was something soothing in the very sound of her
brother's rough voice speaking in a hoarse whisper ; and his
selfish repining over the petty discomforts he had suffered
came like words of comfort and rest.

It has been so jolly blank and miserable downstairs,' he
went on as he held her, and involuntarily rocked himself to
and fro. 'Ike and Eliza have been always gossiping at
the back and sneaking out to take dinner or tea or supper
with somebody's servants, so as to palaver about what's
gone on here.'

A pause.

There's been scarcely anything to eat. I've been half
starved.'

Oh, Morton, my poor boy !'

Those were the first words Clah'e had uttered smce the
inquest, and they were followed by a fresh burst of sobs.

Oh, come, come. Do leave off,' he cried pettishly. * I
say it's all very well for the old man to growl at me for
fishing, but if I hadn't gone catching dabs and a little
conger or two, I should have been starved.'

She raised her face and kissed him. Some one else was
suffering, and her woman's instinct to help was beginning
to work.

What do you think I did, Sis? Oh, you don't know.
I'd been up to Burnett's to see May, but the beggars had
sneaked off and gone to London. Just like Frank
Sneers and wax doll May. Pretty sort of a sister to
keep away when we're in trouble.'

Oh, don't, my dear boy,' whispered Claire in a choking
voice.

Oh, yes, I shall. They're ashamed of me and of all of
us. Just as if we could help the old girl being killed
here.'

A horrible spasm ran through Claire.

Don't jump like that, stupid,' said Morton roughly.
You didn't kill her.'

Hush ! hush !'

No, I shan't hush. It'll do you good to talk and hear
what people say, my pretty old darling Sis. There, there

hush-a-bye, baby. Cuddle up close, and let's comfort you.
What's the matter now ?'

Claire had struggled up, with her hands upon his
shoulders, and was gazing wildly into his eyes.

What — what do people say?' she panted.

*Be still, little goose — no; pretty little white pigeon,' he
said, more softly, as he tried to draw her towards him.

What — do they say ?' she cried, in a hoarse whisper, and
she trembled violently.

Why, that it is a jolly good job the old woman is dead,
for she was no use to anyone.'

Claire groaned as she yielded once more to his embrace.


Fisherman Dick says — I say, he is a close old nut
there's no getting anything out of him ! — says he don't see
that people like Lady Teigne are any use in the world.'

Morton !'

Oh, it's all right. I'm only telling you what he said.

He says too that the chap who did it I say, don't kick

out like that, Sis. Yes, I shall go on : I'm doing you good.
Fisherman Dick, and Mrs. Miggles too, said that I ought to
try and rouse you up, and I'm doing it. You're ever so
much better already. Why, your hands were like dabs
when I came up, and now they are nice and warm.'

She caressed this cheek with them, and he kissed her as
she laid her head on his shoulder.

Dick Higgles said that the diamonds would never do the
chap any good who stole 'em.'

Once more that hysterical start, but the boy only clasped
his sister more tightly, and went on :

Dick says he never knew anyone prosper who robbed
or murdered, or did anything wrong, except those who
smuggled. I say, Sis, I do feel sometimes as if I should
go in for a bit of smuggling. There are some rare games
going on.'

Claire clung to him as if exhausted by her emotion.

Dick's been in for lots of it, I know, only he's too close
to speak. I don't know what I should have done if it
hadn't been for them. I've taken the fish I've caught up
there, and Polly Higgles has cooked them, and we've had
regular feeds.'

You have been up there, Horton ?' said Claire wildly.

Yes ; you needn't tell the old man. What was I to do ?
I couldn't get anything to eat here. I nursed the little girl
for Hrs. Higgles while she cooked, and Dick has laughed at
me to see me nurse the little thing, and said it was rum.
But I don't mind ; she's a pretty little tit, and Dick has
taught her to call me uncle.'

THE FIRST MEETING.

It was the next morning that the Master of the Ceremonies
made his effort, and went down to the breakfast-room, where
he sat by the table, playing with the newspaper that he
dared not try to read, and waiting, wondering, in a dazed
way, whether his son or his daughter would come in to
breakfast.

The paper fell from his hands, and as he sat there he
caught at the table, drawing the cloth aside and holding it
with a spasmodic clutch, as one who was in danger of
falling.

For there was the creak of a stair, the faint rustle of a
dress, and he knew that the time had come.

He tried to rise to his feet, but his limbs refused their
office, and the palsied trembling that had attacked him rose
to his hands. Then he loosened his hold of the table, and
sank back in his chair, changing to the arms, and with his
chin falling upon his breast.

At that moment the door opened, and Clah'e gilded into
the room.

She took a couple of steps forward, after closing the
door, and then caught at the back of a chair to support
herself.

The agony and horror in his child's face, as their eyes
met, galvanized Denville into life, and, starting up, he took
a step forward, extending his trembling hands.

Claire — my child !' he cried, in a husky voice.

His hands dropped, his jaw fell, his eyes seemed to be
starting, as he read the look of horror, loathing, and shame
in his daughter's face, and for the space of a full minute
neither spoke.

Then, as if moved to make another effort, he started
spasmodically forward.

Claire, my child — if you only knew !'

But she shrank from him with the look of horror intensified.


Don't — don't touch me,' she whispered, in a harsh, dry
voice. ' Don't : pray don't.'

But, Claire '

I know,' she whispered, trembling violently. ' It is our
secret. I will not speak. Father — they should kill me
first ; but don't — don't. Father — father — you have broken
my heart !'

As she burst forth in a piteous wail in these words, the

terrible involuntary shrinking he had seen in her passed
away. The stiff angularity that had seemed to pervade her
was gone, and she sank upon her knees, holding by the
back of the chair, and rested her brow upon her hands,
sobbing and drawing her breath painfully.

He stood there gazing down at her, but for a time he did
not move. Then, taking a step forward, he saw that she
heard him, and shrank again.

Claire, my child,' he gasped once more, ' if you only
knew !'

Hush ! — for God's sake, hush !' she said, in a whisper.
Can you not see ? It is our secret. You are my father.
I am trying so hard. But don't^don't '

Don't touch you !' he cried slowly, as she left her sentence
unspoken. ' Well, be it so,' he added, with a piteous
sigh ; ' I will not complain.'

Let it be like some horrible dream,' she said, in the
same low, painful whisper. ' Let me — let me go away.'

No I' he cried, with a change coming over him ; and ho
drew himself up as if her words had given him a sudden
strength. * You must stay. You have duties here, and I
have mine. Clara, you must stay, and it must be to you —
to me, like some horrible dream. Some day you may learn
the horrible temptations that beset my path. Till then I
accept my fate, for I dare not confide more, even to you.
Heaven help me in this horror, and give me strength !' he

muttered to himself, with closed eyes. ' I dare not die ; I
cannot — I will not die. I must wear the mask. Two lives
to live, when heretofore one only has been so hard !'

Just then there was a quick step outside, and the tall
figure of Morton Denville passed the window.

The Master of the Ceremonies glanced at Claire, who
started to her feet, and then their eyes met.

For his sake, Claire,' ho whispered, ' if not for mine.'

For his sake — father,' she answered, slowly and reverently,
as if it where a prayer ; and then to herself, ' and
for yours — the duty I owe you as your child.'

And I,' he muttered to himself, as he stood with a white
hand resting upon the table. ' I must bear it to the end.
I must wear my mask as of old, and wilt Thou give me
pardon and the strength ?'

Morton entered the room fresh and animated, and his
eyes lit up as he saw that it was occupied.

That's better !' he cried. * Morning, father,' and he
clasped the old man's hand.

Good-morning, my dear boy,' was the answer, in
trembling tones ; and then, with the ghost of a smile on the
v\:an lips, ' have you been '

Morton had boisterously clasped Claire in his arms, and
kissed her with effusion ; and as he saw the loving, wistful
look in his child's face, as she passionately returned the
caress — one that he told himself would never again be

bestowed on him — a pang shot through the old man's
breast, and the agony seemed greater than he could
bear.

So — so glad to see you down again, my dear, dear, dear
old Sis,' cried Morton, with a kiss at almost every word.
Then, half holding her still, he turned to the i3ale, wistful
face at the other side of the room, and exclaimed :

Yes, sir. Don't be angry with me. I have been down
again, catching dabs.'

WEARING HIS MASK.

Really, ladies, I — er — should — er — esteem it an honour,
but my powers here are limited, and '

Rubbish T

You'll pardon me ?'

I say — rubbish, Denville.'

Mamma, will you hold your tongue ?'

No, miss ; if it comes to that, I won't ! Speaking like
that to your own mother, who's always working for you as
I am, right out here on the open cliff, where goodness knows
who mayn't '

Mother, be silent !'

Silent, indeed !'

Ladies, ladies, you'll pardon me. I say my powers
here are — er — very limited.'

Yes, I know all about that, but you nest get invitations
for mamma and me for the next Assembly.'

I'll try, Miss Dean, but — you'll pardon me *

'There, don't shilly-shally with him, Betsy; it's all
business. Look here, Denville, the day the invitations come
there'll be five guineas wrapped up in silver paper under the
clayey shepherdess on my droning-room mantelpiece, if
you'll just call and look under.'

Really, Mrs. Dean, you — you shock me. I could not
think of — er — really — er — I will try my best.'

That you will, I know, Mr. Denville. Don't take any
notice of mamma I hope Miss Denville and Mrs. Burnett
are well.'

In the best of health, Miss Dean, I thank you. I will —
er — do my best. A lovely morning, Mrs. Dean. Your
humble servant. Miss Cora, yours. Good-morning.'

A nasty old humbug ; but he'll have the invitations
sent,' said Mrs. Dean, a big, well-developed, well-preserved
woman of fifty, with bright dark eyes that glistened and
shone like pebbles polished by the constant attrition of the
blinking lids.

I wish you would not be so horridly coarse, mother ; and
if you don't drop that " Betsy " we shall quarrel,' said the
younger lady, who bore a sufficient likeness to the elder for
anyone to have stamped them mother and daughter, though
the latter was wanting in her parent's hardness of outline,
being a magnificent specimen of womanly beauty. Dark
and thoroughly classic of feature, large-eyed, full-lipped,
perhaps rather too highly coloured, but this was carried off by

VOL. I. 6

the luxuriant black hair, worn in large ringlets flowing down
either side of the rounded cheeks they half concealed, by
her well-arched black brows and long dark lashes, which
shaded her great swimming eyes. Her figure was perfect,,
and she was in full possession of the ripest womanly beauty,
as she walked slowly and with haughty carriage along the
cliff, beside the elder dame.

Both ladies were dressed in the very height of the fashion,
with enormous wide-spreading open bonnets, heavy with
ostrich plumes, tightly-fitting dresses, with broad waistbands
well up under the arms, loose scarves, long gloves and
reticule ornamented with huge bows of the stiffest silk, like
Brobdingnagian butterflies.

Horrid, coarse indeed ! I suppose I mustn't open my
mouth next,' said the elder lady.

It would be just as well not,' said the younger, ' when
we are out.'

Then I shall open it as wide as I like, ma'am, and when
I like, so now then, Betsy.'

As you please ; only if you do, I shall go home, and I
shall not go to Assembly or ball with you. It was your
wish that I should be Cora.'

No, it wasn't. I wanted Coral, or Coral, miss.'

And I preferred Cora,' said the younger lady with
languid hauteur, as if she were practising a part, ' and you
are always blurting out Betsy.'

Blurting ! There's a way to speak to your poor mother,
who has made the lady of you that you are. Carriages
and diamonds, and grand dinners, and '

The smell of the orange peel, and the candles, and the
memory of the theatre tacked on to me. '' Actress !" you can
see every fine madam we pass say with her eyes, as she
draws her skirt aside and turns from me as if I polluted the
cliff. I've a deal to be proud of,' cried the younger woman
fiercely. ' For heaven's sake, hold your tongue !'

Don't go on like that, Betsy— Cora, I mean, my dear.
Let 'em sneer. If your poor, dear, dead father did keep a
show — well, there, don't bite me. Bet — Cora — theatre, and
make his money, it's nothing to them, and you'll make a
marriage yet, as'll surprise some of 'em if you plays your
cards proper !'

Mother !'

Say mamma, my dear, now ; and do smooth down, my
beauty. There, there, there ! I didn't mean to upset you.
There's Lord Carboro coming. Don't let him see we've
been quarrelling again. I don't know, though,' she added
softly, as she noticed her child's heightened colour and heaving
bosom ; ' it do make you look so 'handsome, my dear.'

Pish !'

It do, really. What a beauty you are, Cora. I don't
wonder at the fools going mad after you and toasting you —
as may be a countess if you like.'

6—2

Turn down here,' said Cora abruptly. * I don't want to
see Carboro.'

But he made me a sign, my dear ; with his eyeglass,
dear.'

Let him make a hundred,' cried Cora angrily. * He is
not going to play with me. Why, he's hanging about after
that chit of Denville's.'

Tchah ! Cora dear. I wouldn't be jealous of a washed-out
doll of a thing like that. Half-starved paupers ; and
with the disgrace of that horrid murder sticking all over
their house.'

Jealous !' cried Cora, with a contemptuous laugh ;
jealous of her ! Not likely, mother ; but I mean to make
that old idiot smart if he thinks he is going to play fast and
loose with me. Come along.'

Without noticing the approaching figure, she turned up
the next street, veiling her beautiful eyes once more with
their long lashes, and gliding over the pavement with her
magnificent figure full of soft undulations that the grotesque
fashion of the dress of the day could not hide.

Oh, Cora, my darling,' said her mother, * how can you
be so mad and obstinate ! — throwing away your chances like
that.'

Chances ? What do you mean ?' cried the beauty.

Why, you know, my dear. He has never married yet ;
and he's so rich, and there's his title.'

And are we so poor that we are to humble ourselves and
beg because that man has a title ?'

But it is such a title, Betsy,' whispered the elder woman.

And he is so old, and withered, and gouty, and is obliged
to drive himself out in a ridiculous donkey-chaise.'

Now, what does that matter, dear ?'
Not much to you, seemingly.'

Now, my lovely, don't — don't. To think that I might
live to see my gal, Betsy Dean, a real countess, and such a
one as there ain't anywhere at court, and she flying in my
face and turning her back upon her chances.'

Mother, do you want to put me in a rage.'

Not in the street, dear ; but do — do — turn back !'
I shall not.'

Then I know the reason why,' cried the elder woman.

What do you mean ?'

You're thinking of that nasty, poverty-stricken, brown-faced
fiddler of a fellow, who hasn't even the decency to get
himself shaved. I declare he looks more like a Jew than a
Christian.'

You mean to make me angry, mother.'

I don't care if I do. There, I say it's a sin and a shame.
A real Earl — a real live Lord as good as proposing to you,
and you, you great silly soft goose, sighing and whining after
a penniless pauper who won't even look at you. Oh ! the
fools gals are !'

Cora Dean's lips were more scarlet than before, and her
beautiful eyes flashed ominously, but she said nothing.

Going silly after a fellow like that, who's for ever hanging
about after Denville's gal. Oh ! I haven't patience.'

She said no more, for her daughter walked so fast that
she became short of breath.

Egad ! Juno's put out,' said James, Earl of Carboro,
peer of the realm, speaking in a high-pitched voice, and then
applying one glove to his very red lips, as if he were uneasy
there. ' What a magnificent figure, though ! She's devilish
handsome, she is, egad ! It's just as well, perhaps. I won't
follow her. I'll go on the pier. Let her come round if she
likes, and if she doesn't — why, femme, I don't care if she
doesn't — now that '

He smacked his lips, and shook his head, and then drew
himself up, rearranging his quaint beaver hat that came
down fore and aft, curled up tightly at the sides, and spread
out widely at the flat top. He gave his ancient body a bit
of a writhe, and then raised his gold eyeglass to gaze at the
pier, towards which people seemed to be hastening.

'Eh? Egad, why, what's the matter? Somebody gone
overboard? I'll go and see. No, I won't; I'll sit down
and wait. I shall soon know. It's deuced hot. Those
railings are not safe.'

He settled himself on the first seat on the cliff, and,
giving the wide watered-silk ribbon a shake, used his broad

and square gold-rimmed eyeglass once more, gazing through
it at the long, old-fashioned pier that ran down into the sea,
amongst whose piles the bright waves that washed the
chalky shore of fashionable Saltinville were playing, while
an unusual bustle was observable in the little crowd of
loungers that clustered on the long low erection.

Meanwhile the Master of the Ceremonies of the fashionable
seaside resort honoured of royalty had continued his
course towards the pier.

The trouble at his house seemed to be forgotten, and in
the pursuit of his profession to serve and be observed —
gentleman-inviting on society — he looked to-day a tall,
rather slight man, with nut-brown hair, carefully curled and
slightly suggestive of having been grown elsewhere, closely
shaven face of rather careworn aspect, but delicate and
refined. He was a decidedly handsome, elderly man, made
ridiculous by a mincing dancing-master deportment, an
assumed simpering smile, and a costume in the highest
fashion of George the Third's day. His hat has been already
described, for it was evidently moulded on the same
block as my Lord Carboro's, and the rest of the description
will do for the costume of both — in fact, with allowances for
varieties of colour and tint, for that of most of the gentlemen
who flit in and out in the varied scenes of this story of
old seaside life.

His thin, but shapely legs were in the tightest of pantaloons,

over which were a glossy pair of Hessian boots with
silken tassels where they met the knee. An extremely tight
tail coat of a dark bottle green was buttoned over his breast,
leaving exposed a goodly portion of a buff waistcoat below
the bottom buttons, while the coat collar rose up like a protecting
erection, as high as the wearer's ears, and touched
and threatened to tilt forward the curly brimmed hat. Two
tiny points of a shirt collar appeared above the sides of an
enormous stock which rigidly prisoned the neck ; a delicate
projection of cambric frilling rose from the breast ; the hands
were tightly gloved, one holding a riding-whip, the top of
which was furnished with a broad-rimmed square eyeglass ;
and beneath the buff vest hung, suspended by a broad, black
watered-silk ribbon, a huge bunch of gold seals and keys,
one of the former being an enormous three-tabled topaz,
which turned in its setting at the wearer's will.

Such was the aspect of the Master of the Ceremonies in
morning costume — the man whose services were sought by
every new arrival for introduction to the Assembly Room
and to the fashionable society of the day — the man who, by
unwritten canons of the fashionable world, must needs be
consulted for every important fete or dance, and whose
offerings from supplicants — he scorned to call them clients
were supposed to yield him a goodly income, and doubtless
would do so, did the season happen to be long, and
society at Saltinville in force.

Parting from the ladies he had met, he passed on with a
feeble smirk, growing more decided, his step more mincing,
to bow to some lady, a proceeding calling for grace and ease.
The raising and replacing of the hat was ever elaborate, so
was the kissing of the tips of the gloves to the horsemen
who cantered by. There was quite a kingly dignity full of
benevolence in the nods bestowed here and there upon
fishers and boatmen in dingy flannel trousers rising to the
arm-pits, trousers that looked as if they would have stood
alone. Then there was an encounter with a brace of beaux,
a halt, the raising and replacing of their hats, and the snuffbox
of the Master of the Ceremonies flashed in the bright
autumn sunshine as it was offered to each in turn, and
pinches were taken of the highly-scented Prince's Mixture
out of the historical prince's present — a solid golden, deeply-chased,
and massive box. Then there was a loud snuffling
noise; three expirations of three breaths in a loud 'Hah!'
three snapping of three fingers and three thumbs, the withdrawal
of three bandanna silk, gold, and scarlet handkerchiefs,
to flip away a little snuff from three shirt frills ; then
the snuff-box flashed and listened as it was held behind
the Master of the Ceremonies, with his gold-mounted whip ;
three hats were raised again and replaced, their wearers
having mutually decided that the day was charming, and
Sir Harry Payne, officer of dragoons in mufti, like his chosen
companion. Sir Matthew Bray, went one way to * ogle the

gyurls,' the Master of Ceremonies the other to reach the
pier.

Everyone knew him ; everyone sought and returned! his
bow. Fashion's high priest, the ruler of the destinies of
many in the season, he was not the man to slight, and the
gatekeeper drew back, hat in hand, and the bandmaster
bowed low, as with pointed toes, graceful carriage, snuff-box
in one hand, eye-glass and whip for the horse he never rode
in the other, Stuart Denville walked behind the mask he
wore, mincing, and bowing, and condescending, past the
groups that dotted the breezy resort.

Half-way down the pier, but almost always hat in hand,
and the set smile deepening the lines about his well-cut
mouth, he became aware of some excitement towards the
end.

There was a shriek and then a babble of voices talking,
cries for a boat, and a rush to the side, where a lady, who
had arrived in a bath-chair, pushed by a tall footman in
mourning livery, surmounted by a huge braided half-moon
hat, was gesticulating wildly and going to and fro, now
fanning herself with a monstrous black fan, now closing it
with a snap, and tapping lady bystanders with it on the
shoulder or arm.

He'll be drowned. I'm sure he'll be drowned. Why is
there no boatman? Why is there no help? Oh, here is
dear Mr. Denville. Oh ! Mr. Denville, help, help, help !'

Here the lady half turned round, and made with each cry
of * help !' a backward step towards the Master of the Ceremonies,
who had not accelerated this pace a whit, for fear of
losing grace, and who was only just in time — the lady managed
that — to catch her as she half leaned against his
arm.

Dear Lady Drelincourt, what terrible accident has befallen
us here ?'

'My darling!' murmured the lady. * Save him, oh, save
him, or I shall die !'

A SMALL RESCUE.

Small matters make great excitements among idle seaside
people, and as Denville gracefully helped Lady Drelinc9nrt
to a chair, and stepped mincingly to the side of the pier, he
found that the little crowd were gazing down upon the black,
snub-nosed, immature bull-dog physiognomy of an extremely
fat Chinese pug dog, who, in a fit of playfulness with another
fashionable dog, had forgotten his proximity to the extreme
edge of the pier and gone in with a splash.

He had swum round and round, evidently mistrustful of
his powers to reach the shore, and, in a very stolid manner,
appeared to enjoy his bath ; but growing tired, he had
ceased to swim, and, throwing up his glistening black
muzzle, had begun to beat the water with his foresaw,
uttering from time to time a dismal yelp, while a bell
attached to his collar gave a ting. Ignorant of the fact that
he was fat enough to float if he only kept still, he was fast
approaching the state when chicken legs and macaroons

would tempt in vain, when his stiffened jaws would refuse
to ope to the tiny ratafia well soaked in milk, and digestion
pains would assail him no more, after too liberal an indulgence
in the well-fried cutlet of juicy veal. The bell-hung
pagoda in Lady Drelincourt's drawing-room was likely
to be vacant till another pet was bought, and as the Master
of the Ceremonies gazed down at poor Titi through his glass,
it was in time to see a rough fisherman throw a rope in
rings to the drowning beast, evidently under the impression
that the dog would seize the rope and hold on till he was
drawn up, for no boat was near.

The rope was well aimed, for it struck the pet heavily,
knocking him under, and the rough boatman took off
his glazed hat, and scratched a very rough head, staring
in wonderment at the effect of his well-meant
effort.

But Titi came up again and yelped loudly, this time with
a sweet, silvery, watery gurgle in his throat.

Then he turned over, and a lady shrieked. Then he
paddled about on this side, and made a foam in the water,
and in spite of the helpless, sympathising glances given
through the gold-rimmed eyeglass of the Master of the
Ceremonies, Titi must have been drowned had there not
been a sudden splash from the staging of the pier somewhere
below, a loud exciting cry, and a figure seen to rise
from its plunge, swim steadily to the drowning dog, reach it

amidst a storm of delighted cries, swim back to the staging,
and disappear.

This was the correct time, and Lady Drehncom^t fainted
dead away, with her head resting upon her shoulder, and
her shoulder on the back of her chair. Immediately there
was a rustling in bow-decked reticule, smelling salts were
drawn, and Lady Drelincourt's nose was attacked. She
was almost encircled with cut-glass bottles.

The Master of the Ceremonies looked on, posed in an
attitude full of eager interest, and he saw, what was nothing
new to his attentive gaze, that Time had behaved rudely to
Lady Drelincourt ; that art had been called in to hide his
ravages, and that her ladyship's attitude caused cracks in
the thickened powder, and that it differed in tone from the
skin beneath ; that there was a business of bust, and an
angularity of shoulder where it should have been round and
soft ; and that if her ladyship fainted much more he would
not be answerable for the consequences to her head of hair.

But Lady Drelincourt was not going to faint much more.
The dog had been saved, and she had f anted enough, so
that at the first approach of a rude hand to loosen the
fastenings at her throat, she sighed and gasped, struggled
faintly, opened her eyes of belladonna brilliancy, stared
wildly round, recovered her senses, and exclaimed :

Where is he ? Where is my Titi ? Where is his preserver
?' and somebody said, * Here !'

There was a hurried opening of the circle, and Stuart
Denville, Esquire, Master of the Ceremonies, struck a fresh
attitude full of astonishment, but, like the rest of the well-dressed
throng, he shrank away, as a tall, fair youth,
dripping with water, which made his hair and clothes cling
closely, came from an opening that led to the piles below,
squeezing the pug to free him from moisture, and gazing
from face to face.

You rascally prodigal !' whispered the Master of the
Ceremonies, as the youth came abreast, * you've been fishing
for dabs again !'

Well, suppose I have,' said the youth sulkily.

Where is his preserver ? Give me back my darling Titi,'
wailed Lady Drelincourt ; and catching the wet fat dog to
her breast, regardless of the effect upon her rich black silk
dress and crape, the little beast uttered a satisfied yelp and
nestled up to her, making a fat jump upwards so as to lick a
little of the red off the lady's lips.

And who was it saved you, my precious ?' sobbed the
lady.

Lady Drelincourt,' said the Master of the Ceremonies,
taking the youth's hand gingerly, with one glove, ' allow me
to introduce your dear pet's preserver — it was Morton
Denville, Lady Drelincourt, my son. I am sorry he is so
very wet.'

Bless you — bless you !' cried Lady Drelincourt with

effusion. * I could embrace you, you brave and gallant
man, but — but — not now.'

'No, no — not now. Lady Drelincourt, let me assist you
to your chair. Morton,' he whispered, ' you're like a scarecrow
: quick, be off. You dog, if you mind me now, your
fortune's made.'

Oh, is it, father ? Well, I'm precious glad. I say, isn't
it cold ?'

Yes : quick — home, and change your things. Stop ;
where are you going ?'

Down below, to fetch the dabs.'

< D the dabs, sir,' whispered the Master of the

Ceremonies excitedly ; ' you'll spoil the effect. Run, sir,
run !'

The youth hesitated a moment and then started and ran
swiftly towards the cliff, amidst a shrill burst of cheers, the
ladies fluttering their handkerchiefs, and fisherman Dick
Miggles wishing he had been that there boy.

Denville — dear Denville,' said her ladyship, * how proud
you must be of such a son !'

The idol of my life, dear Lady Drelincourt,' said the
Master of the Ceremonies, arranging her dress in the bath-chair.
' Shall I carry the poor dog ?'

No, no — no, no, my darling Titi !' cried the lady, to
his great relief. ' Thomas, take me home quickly,' she
said, as the wet dog nestled in her crape lap and uttered a

few snuffles of satisfaction. ' Quick, or Titi will take cold
Denville, see me safely home. My nerves are gone.'

The shock, of course.'

Yes, Denville, and I shall never forget your gallant son,'
sobbed her ladyship hysterically, as they passed through a
lane of promenaders ; ' but I must not cry.'

It was indeed quite evident that such a giving way to
natural feeling would have had serious results, and she was
not veiled. So the rising tear was sent back, and Denville
saw her safely home, forgetting for the moment his domestic
troubles in his exultation, and making out a future for his
son, as the rich Lady Drelincourt's protege — a commission
a handsome allowance. Perhaps — ah, who knew ! Such
unions had taken place before now.

For the next half-hour he was living artificially, seeing
his son advanced in life, and his daughter dwelling in a
kind of fairy castle that had been raised through Lady
Drelincourt's introduction .

Then as he approached home a black cloud seemed to
come down and close him in, the artificiality was gone,
age seemed to be attacking him, and he moaned as he
reached the door.

Heaven help me, and give me strength to keep up this
actor's life, for I'm very, very weak.'

VOL. I.

THE OPENING OP A VEIN.

Well, young Denville,' said Dick Higgles, the great
swarthy fisherman, whose black hair, dark eyes, and
aquiline features told that his name was a corruption of
Miguel, and that he was a descendant of one of the unfortunates
who had been wrecked and imprisoned when the
Spanish Armada came to grief, and had finally resolved to
^ remain an Englishman.'

Dick Higgles rarely did anything in the daytime but
doze and smoke. Of course, he ate and drank, and, as on
the present occasion, nursed the little girl that Mrs. Higgles,
who was as round and snub and English of aspect as her
lord was Spanish, had placed in his arms. At night matters
were different, and people did say but never mind.

Well, young Denville,' said Fisherman Dick, as he sat
on the bench outside his whitewashed cottage with the
whelk-shell path, bordered with marigold beds, one of which
flowers he picked from time to time to give the child.

Well, Dick, where are my dabs ?'

Haw-haw,' said the fisherman, laughing. * I say, missus,
where's them dabs ?'

Mrs. Higgles was washing up the dinner things, and she
came out with a dish on which were a number of fried heads
and tails, with a variety of spinal and other bones.

What a shame !' cried Morton, with a look of disgust.
I do call that shabby, Dick.'

How was I to know that you would come after 'em, lad ?
I'd ha' wrote 'em, but I don't like to come to your house now.*

I say, Dick, don't be a fool,' cried the lad. * What's the
good of raking up that horrid affair, now it's all dead and
buried ?'

Nay,' said Dick, shaking his head. ' That aren't all dead
and buried, like the old woman, my lad. There's more
trouble to come out o' that business yet.'

Oh, stuff and nonsense !'

Nay, it isn't, my lad. Anyhow, I don't like coming to
your place now, and there's other reasons as well, aren't
there, missus?'

Now, I do call that shabby, Dick. Just because there's
a bill owing for fish. I've told you I'll pay it some day, if
papa does not ; I mean, when I have some money.'

Ay, so you did, lad, and so you will, I know ; but I
didn't mean that, did I, missus ?'

No,' came from within.

7—2

What did you mean, then ?'

Never mind. You wait and see. I say, the old gentleman
looks as if he'd got over the trouble, Master Morton.
He was quite spry to-day.'

No, he hasn't,' said Morton. ' It's quite horrible at
home. He's ill, and never hardly speaks, and my sister
frets all day long.'

Do she though ! Poor gal ! Ah, she wants it found out,
my lad. It wherries her, because you see it's just as if them
pools of the old lady's hung like to your folk, and you'd got
to account for 'em.'

Get out ! Why, what nonsense, Dick.'

What, dropped it agen, my pretty ?' said the great
fisherman, stooping to pick up a flower, and place it in the
little fat hand that was playing with his big rough finger.
Ah, well, perhaps it be, but never mind. I say, though,
the old gentleman looked quite himself agen. My ! he do go
dandy-jacking along the cliff, modern the best of 'em. He
do make me laugh, he do. Why, hello. Master Morton,
lad, what's matter?'

If you dare to laugh at my father, Dick,' cried the boy,
whose face was flushed and eyes flashing, ' big as you are,
I'll punch your head.'

Naw, naw, naw, don't do that, my lad,' said the fisherman,
growing solemn directly. * I were not laughing at
him. I were laughing at his clothes.'

And if my father dresses like the Prince and the Duke
and all the fashionable gentlemen, what is there to laugh at
then ? Suppose I were to laugh at you for living in that
great pair of trousers that come right up under you
arms ?'

Well, you might, lad, and welcome ; they're very comfortable.
Perhaps you'd like to laugh at my boots. Haw,
haw, haw, Master Morton, what dryer think I did yes'day ?
I took little flower here, after missus had washed her, and
put her right into one o' my boots, and she stood up in it
with her head and arms out, laughing and crowing a good
'un. Aren't she a little beauty ?'

Yes,' said Morton, looking down and playing with the
child. * Whose is she ?'

Dunno. Ask the missus.'

And she won't tell me, Dick.'

That's so. But look here, lad. I'm sorry I laughed at
Master Denville, for he's a nice gentleman, and always hasa
kind word and a smile, if he doesn't pay his bill.'

Dick !'

All right, my lad, all right. You'll pay that when you're
rich. I say : chaps ses as you'll marry Lady Drelincourt,
now, after saving her dog, and '

Don't be a fool, Dick. Here, what were you going to
say ?' said the lad, reddening.

You won't want a bit of fishing then, I suppose ?'

Look here ; are you going to speak, Dick, or am I to
go?'

All right, my lad. Look here ; we eat yom dabs, but
never mind them. I shall just quietly leave a basket at
your door to-night. You needn't know anything about it,
and you needn't be too proud to take it, for a drop in the
house is worth a deal sometimes, case o' sickness. It's real
French spirit, and a drop would warm the old gentleman
sometimes when he is cold.'

Smuggling again, Dick ?'

Never you mind about that, Master Morton, and don't
call things by ugly names. But that aren't all I've got to
say. You lost your dabs, but if you'll slip out to-night and
come down the pier, the tide'll be just right, and I'll have
the bait and lines ready, and I'll give you as good a bit of
fishing as you'd wish to have.'

'Will you, Dick?'

Ay, that I will. They were on last night, but they'll be
wonderful to-night, and I shouldn't wonder if we ketches
more than we expel.'

Oh, but I couldn't go, Dick.'
Why not, lad ?'

You see, I should have to slip out in the old way —
through the drawing-room, and down the balcony pillar.'

Same as you and Master Fred used, eh ?'

Don't talk about him,' said the lad.

Well, he's your own brother.'

Yes, but father won't have his name mentioned,' said
the boy sadly. ' He's to be dead to us. Here, what a fool
I am, talking so to you !'

Oh, I don't know, my lad ; we was always friends, since
you was quite a little chap, and I used to give you rides in
my boat.'

Yes ; you always were a friend, Dick, and I like you.'

Only you do get a bit prouder now you're growing such
a strapping chap, Master Morton.'

I shan't change to you, Dick.'

Then come down to-night, say at half after 'leven.'
Morton shook his head.

Why, you aren't afraid o' seeing the old woman's ghost,
are you ?'

Absurd ! No. But it seems so horrible to come down
that balcony pillar to get out on the sly.'

Why, you never used to think so, my lad.'

'No, but I do now. Do you know, Dick,' he said in a
whisper, * I often think that the old lady was killed by
some one who had watched me go in and out that way.'

Eh ?' cried the fisherman, giving a peculiar stare.

Yes, I do,' said the lad, laying his hand on the big
fellow's shoulders. * I feel sure of it, for that murder must
have been done by some one who knew how easy it was
to get up there and open the window.'

Did you ever see anyone watching of you ?' said the
fisherman in a hoarse whisper.

N — no, I'm not sure. I fancy I did see some one
watching one night.'

Phew !' whistled the fisherman ; ' it's rather hot, my lad,
sitting here in the sun.'

Perhaps some day I shall find out who did it, Dick.'

Hah — yes,' said the man, staring at him hard. ' Then
you won't come ?'

Yes, I will,' cried Morton. ' It's so cowardly not to
come. I shall be there;' and, stopping to pick . up the
flower the child had again dropped, the pretty little thing
smiled in his face, and he bent down and kissed it before
striding away.

Think o' that, now,' said Mrs. Miggles, coming to the
door.

Think o' what ?' growled her lord, breaking off an old
sea-ditty he was singing to the child.

Why, him taking to the little one and kissing it. How
strange things is !'

MRS. BURNETT MAKES A CALL.

Gad, but the old boy's proud of that chariot,' said Sir
Matthew Bray, mystifying his sight by using an eyeglass.


Yes,' said Sir Harry Payne, who was lolling against the
railings that guarded promenaders from a fall over the cliff ;
and he joined his friend in gazing at an elegantly-appointed
britzka which had drawn up at the side, and at whose door
the Master of the Ceremonies was talking to a very young
and pretty woman. ' Yes ; deuced pretty woman, May
Burnett. What a shame that little wretch Frank should
get hold of her.'

Egad, but it was a good thing for her. I say, Harry,
weren't you sweet upon her ?'

I never tell tales out of school, Matt. 'Fore George, how
confoundedly my head aches this morning.'

Just then the Master of the Ceremonies drew back, raising
his hat with the greatest of politeness to the lady, and waving

his cane to the coachman, who drove off, the old man going
in the other direction muttering to himself, but proud and
happy, while the carriage passed the two bucks, who raised
their hats and were rewarded with the sweetest of smiles
from a pair of very innocent, girlish-looking little lips, their
owner, aptly named May, being a very blossom of girlish
prettiness and dimpled innocency.

Gad, she is pretty,' said Sir Matthew Bray. ' Come
along, old lad. Let's see if Drelincourt or anyone else is on
the pier.'

Aha ! does the wind blow that way, Matt ? Why were
you not there to save the dog ?'

Wind ? what way ?' said the big, over-dressed dandy,
raising his eyebrows.

Ha — ha — ha! come, come!' cried Sir Harry, touching
his friend in the side with the gold knob of his cane, * how
innocent we are;' and, taking Sir Matthew's arm, they
strolled on towards the pier.

I didn't ask you who the note was for that we left at
Mother Close's,' said Sir Matthew sulkily.

No ; neither did I ask you where yours came from — you
Goliath of foxes,' laughed Sir Harry. * But I say. 'Fore
George, it was on mourning paper, and was scented with
musk. Ha — ha — ha !'

Sir Matthew scowled and grumbled, but the next moment
the incident was forgotten, and both gentlemen were raising

their ugly beaver hats to first one and then another of the
belles they passed.

Meanwhile the britzka was driven on along the Parade,
and drew up at the house of the Master of the Ceremonies,
where the footman descended from his seat beside the coachman,
and brought envious lodging-letters to the windows on
either side by his tremendous roll of the knocker and peal
at the bell.

Isaac appeared directly.

Yes, Miss Denville was in, so the steps were rattled down,
and Mrs. Frank Burnett descended Lightly, rustled up to the
front door, and entered with all the hauteur of one accustomed
to a large income and carriage calling.

Ah, Clah'e daring !' she cried, as she was shown into
the drawing-room ; * how glad I shall be to see you doing
this sort of thing. Eeally, you know, it is time.'

Ah, May dear,' said Claire, kissing her sister affectionately,
but vdth a grave pained look in her eyes, ' I am so glad to
see you. I was wishing you would come. Papa will be so
disappointed : he has gone up the town to see the tailor about
Morton.'

What, does that boy want new clothes again? Papa did
not say so.'

Have you seen him, then ?'

Yes. How well he looks. But why did you want to
see me ?'

For answer Claire took her sister's hand, led her to the
chintz-covered sofa, and seated herself beside her, with her
arm round May's waist.

Oh, do be careful, Claire,' said Mrs. Burnett pettishly ;
this is my lute-string. And, my dear, how wretchedly you
do dress in a morning.'

It is good enough for home, dear, and we are obliged to
be so careful. May dear, I hardly like to ask you, but could
you spare me a guinea or two ?'

Spare you a guinea or two ? Why, bless the child ! what
can you want with a guinea or two ?'

I want it for Morton. There are several things he needs
so much, and I want besides to be able to let him have a
little pocket-money when he asks.'

Oh, really, I cannot, Claire. It is quite out of the
question. Frank keeps me so dreadfully short. You would
never believe what trouble I have to get a few guineas from
him when I am going out, and there is so much play now
that one is compelled to have a little to lose. But I must
be off. I have some shopping to do, and a call or two to
make besides. Then there is a book to get at Miss Close's.
I won't ask you to come for a drive this morning.

No, dear, don't. But stay a few minutes ; I have something
to say to you.'

Now, whatever can you have to say, Claire dear ?
Nothing about that — that — oh, don't, pray. I could not

bear it. All the resolution I had was needed to come hereat
all, and, as I told you in my letter, it was impossible forme
to come before. Frank would not let me.'

I want to talk to you very — very seriously.'

About that dreadful affair ?'

No,' said Claire, with a curiously solemn look coming
over her face, and her voice assuming a deep, tragic tone.

Then it is about — oh, Claire !' she cried passionately, as
she glanced up at a floridly painted portrait of herself on the
wall ; ' I do wish you would take that picture down.'

Why should you mind that ? You know papa likes it.'

Because it reminds me so of the past.'

When you were so weak and frivolous with that poor
fellow Louis.'

Now I did not come here to be scolded,' cried the childlike
little thing passionately. * I don't care. I did love poor
Louis, and he'd no business to go away and die.'

Hush, hush, May, my darling,' said Claire, with a pained
face. ' I did not scold you.'

You did,' sobbed the other; 'you said something about
Louis, and that you had something to talk to me about.
What is it ?' she cried with a look of childish fright in her
eyes. * What is it ?' she repeated, and she clung to her
sister excitedly.

Hush, hush, May, I was not going to scold, only to talk
to you.'

It will keep, I'm sure,' cried May, with the scared look
intensifying.

No, dearest, it will not keep, for it is something very
serious — so serious that I would not have our father know it
for the world.'

Lack-a-day, Claire,' cried Mrs. Burnett, with assumed
mirth forming pleasant dimples in her sweet childish face,
what is the matter ?'

I wanted to say a few words of warning to you, May
dear. You know how ready people are to gossip ?'

Good lack, yes, indeed they are. But what ?' she

faltered, ' what ?'

And several times lately they have been busy with your
name.'

With my name !' cried Mrs. Burnett, with a forced laugh,
and a sigh of relief.

Yes, dear, about little bits of freedom, and — and — I don't
like to call it coquetry. I want you, dearest, to promise me
that you will be a little more staid. Dear May, it pains me
more than I can say.'

Frump ! frump ! frump ! Why you silly, weak, quakerish
old frump, Claire ! What nonsense to be sure ! A woman
in my position, asked out as I am to rout, and kettledrum,
and ball, night after night, cannot sit mischance against
the wall, and mumble scandal with the old maids. Now,
I wonder who has been putting all this in your head ?'

I will not repeat names, dear ; but it is some one whom
I can trust.'

Then she is a scandalous old harridan, whoever she is,'
cried Mrs. Burnett with great warmth. * And what do you
know about such matters ?'

I know it pains me to hear that my dear sister's name
is mentioned freely at the officers' mess, and made a common
toast.'

Oh, indeed, madam ; and pray what about yours ? Who
is talked of at every gathering, and married to everyone in
turn ?'

I know nothing of those things,' said Claire coldly.

Ah, well, all right ; but, I say, when's it to be, Claire ?
Don't fribble away this season. I hear of two good opportunities
for you ; and — oh, I say, Claire, they do tell me
that a certain gentleman said — a certain very high personage
— that you were '

Shame, sister !' cried Claire, starting up as if she had
been stung. * How can you— how dare you, speak to me
like that ?'

Hoity-toity ! What's the matter, child ?'

Child !' cried Claire indignantly. ' Do you forget that
you have always been as a child to me — my chief care ever
since our mother died ? Oh, slay, May, darling, this is not
like you. Pray — pray be more guarded in what you say.
There, dearest, I am not angry ; but this light and frivolous

manner distresses me. You are Frank Bennett's honor-ed
^vife — girl yet, I know ; but your marriage lifts you at once
to a position amongst women, and these light, flippant ways
sit so ill upon one like you.'

Oh, pooh ! stuff! you silly, particular old frump !' cried
May sharply. ' Do you suppose that a married woman is
i^oing to be like a weak, prudish girl ? There, there, there ;
I did not come to quarrel, and I won't be scolded. I say,
they tell me that handsome Major Eockley is likely to
throw himself away on Cora Dean.'

Oh, May, May, my daring !'

You are a goose not to catch him in your own net.'

Major Eockley ?'

Yes ; he is rich and handsome. I wish I'd had him
instead of Frank.'

May, dear May !'

Oh, I know : it's only talk. But, I say, dear, have you
heard about old Drelincourt ? So shocking ! In mourning,
too. They say she is mad to marry some one. There, goodbye.
Don't crush my bonnet. Oh, of course ; yes, I'm going
to be as prudish as you, and so careful. Well, what is it ?'

May, you cannot deceive me ; you have something on
your mind.'

I ? Nonsense ! Absurd !'

You were going to tell me something ; to ask me to
help you, I am sure.'

Well — perhaps — yes,' said the little tiling, with scarlet
face. * But yon frightened me out of it. I aren't now.
Next time. Good-bye ; good-bye ; good-bye.'

She rattled these last words out hastily, kissed her sister,
and hurried, in a strangely excited manner, from the
room.

Claire watched the carriage go, and then sank back out of
sight in a chair, to clasp her hands upon her knees, and
gaze before her with a strangely old look upon her beautiful
face.

For there was trouble, not help, to be obtained from the
wilful, girlish wife who had so lately left her side.

VOL. I.

A NIGHT-bird TRAPPED.

It was, as Morton Denville said, cold and cheerless at his
home, and the proceedings that night endorsed his words,
as at half-past ten, after the servants had been dismissed,
his father rose to seek his sleepless couch.

Claire rose at the same moment, starting from a silent
musing fit, while Morton threw down the book he had been
reading in a very ill-used way.

' Good-night, my son,' said Denville, holding out his hand,
and grasping the lad's with unusual fervour.

Good-night, father.'

And you'll mind and be particular now, my boy. I am
sure that at last I can advance your prospects.'
Oh, yes, father, I'll be particular.'
Don't let people see yoa fishing there again.'

No, father, I'll take care. Good-night. Coming Claire?'
Claire had put away her needlework, and was standing

cold and silent by the table.

Good-hight, Claire, my child,' said Denville, with a
piteous look and appeal in his tone.

Good-night, father.'

She did not move as the old man took a couple of steps
forward and kissed her brow, laying his hands afterwards
upon her head and muttering a blessing.

Then, in spite of her efforts, a chill seemed to run through
her, and she trembled, while he, noting it, turned away with
a look of agony in his countenance that he sought to conceal,
and sank down in the nearest chair.

He seemed to be a totally different man, and those who
had seen him upon the cliff and pier would not have recognised
in him the fashionable fribble, whose task it was to
direct the flight of the butterflies of the Assembly Room, and
preside at every public dance.

Aren't you going to bed, father ?' said Morton, trying to
speak carelessly.

Yes, yes, my son, yes. I only wish to think out my
plans a little — your commission, and other matters.'

I hope he won't be long,' muttered Morton as he left the
room. ' Why, Claire, how white and cold you are ! There,
hang me if it isn't enough to make a fellow sell himself to
that old Lady Drelincourt for the sake of getting money to
take care of you. If I'd got plenty, you should go abroad
for a change.'

Claire kissed him affectionately.

8—2

Hang me if I don't begin to hate May. She doesn't seem
like a sister to us. Been here to-day, hasn't she ? I heard
they'd come back.'

Yes,' said Claire with a sigh.

It was cowardly of them to go off like that, when you
were in such trouble. You did not have a single woman

come and say a kind word when that was in the

house.'

'Don't speak of it, dear,' said Claire. 'Mrs. Barclay
came, though.'

Eum old girl ! I always feel ready to laugh at her.'

She has a heart of gold.'

Old Barclay has a box of gold, and nice and tightly
he keeps it locked up. I say, he'll sell us up some
day

Morton dear, I can't bear to talk to you to-night ; and
don't speak like that of May. She has her husband to
obey.'

'Bless him!' cried Morton musingly. 'Good-night,
Sis.'

He kissed her affectionately, and a faint smile came into
Claire's wan face, as it seemed to comfort her in her weary
sorrow. Then they parted, and she went to her room,
opened the window, and sat with her face among the
flowers, watching the sea and thinking of some one whom
she had in secret seen pass by there at night.

That was a dream of the past, she told herself now, for it
could never be. Love, for her, was dead ; no man could
call her wife with such a secret as she held in her breast,
and as she thought on, her misery seemed greater than she
could bear.

The tide was well up, and the stars glittered in the heaving
bosom of the sea as she sat and gazed out ; and then all at
once her heart seemed to stand still, and then began beating
furiously, for a familiar step came slowly along the cobble-paved
walk in front of the house, along by the railed edge
of the cliff, and then for a moment she could see the tall,
dark figure she knew so well, gazing wistfully up at the
window.

She knew he loved her ; she knew that her heart had
gone out to him, though their acquaintance was of the most
distant kind. She knew, too, how many obstacles poverty
had thrown in the way of both, but some day, she had felt,
all would be swept away. Now all that was past. She
must never look at him again.

She shrank from the window, and sank upon her knees,
weeping softly for the unattainable, as she felt how he must
love her, and that his heart was with her in sympathy withall
her trouble.

Dead — dead — dead,' she moaned ; * my love is dead,
and my life-course broadly marked out, so that I cannot turn
to the right or left.'

She started and shuddered, for below her there was the
tread of a heavy foot. She heard her father's slight cough,
and his closing door, and at the same moment, as if it were
he who separated them, the step outside could be heard
returning, and Claire arose and crept to the window again
to listen till it died away.

Dead — dead — my love is dead,' she moaned again, and
closing the window, she strove to forget her agony of mind
and the leaden weight that seemed to rest upon her brow in
sleep.

Eleven had struck, and two quarters had chimed before
Morton Denville dared to stir. He had waited with open
door, listening impatiently for his father's retiring ; he had
listened to the steps outside ; and then at last, with all the
eagerness of a boy, in spite of his near approach to manhood,
and excited by the anticipations of the fishing, and the
romance of the little adventure, he stole forth with his
shoes in his hands, after carefully closing the catch of his
well-oiled door.

The crucial part was the passing of the end of the passage
leading to his father's room, and here he paused for a few
moments, but he fancied he could hear a long-drawn breathing,
and, after a hasty glance at the door of the back drawing-room,
erst Lady Teigne's chamber, he opened the drawing-room
door, stepped in and closed it.

He breathed more freely now, but a curious chill ran

through hmi, and he felt ready to retreat as he saw that the
folding doors were not closed, and that the faint light from
the back window made several articles of furniture look
grotesque and strange.

Here am I, just twenty, and as cowardly as a girl,' he
muttered. * I won't be afraid.'

All the same, though, his heart beat violently, and he
shrank from moving for some minutes.

And Dick waiting,' he muttered.

Those words gave him the strength he sought, and, going
on tiptoe across the room, half feeling as if a hand were
going to be laid upon his shoulder to keep him back, he
drew aside the blind, opened the French window, passed
out, closed it after him, and stood there in the balcony,
gazing at the heaving, star-spangled sea.

I can't be a man yet,' he said to himself. ' If I were T
shouldn't feel so nervous. It is very horrid, though, the
first time after that old woman was killed ; and by someone
coming up there. Ugh ! it's very creepy. I half fancied
I could hear the old girl snoring as she used.'

He leaned over the balcony rails and looked to right and
left, but all seemed silent in the sleeping town, and after listening
for a minute or two he seized the support of the balcony
roof, stepped over the rails, lowered himself a little, and
clasping the pillar with this legs, slid easily down, rested fora
moment on the railings with his feet between the spikes,

and then, clasping the pillar, dropped lightly down upon the
pavement, to be seized by two strong hands by arm and
throat, a dark figm^e having stepped out of the doorway to
hold him fast.

What '

Hush ! Who are you ? What are you doing here ? Why,
Morton Denville !'

Richard Linnell ! Is it you ? Oh, I say, you did give
me a scare. I thought it was that chap come again.'

What do you mean ?'

Why, the fellow who did that, you know,' said the lad
with a nod upwards.

But why have you stolen down like this, sir ?'

Don't talk so loud ; you'll wake the old man. Only
going fishing.'

Fishing ? Now ?'

Yes. Fisherman Dick's waiting for me on the pier.'

Is this true ?' asked Linnell sternly.

True ! What do you mean ?' said the lad haughtily.

Did you ever know a Denville tell a lie ?'

No, of course not. But it looks bad, young fellow, to

see you stealing out of the house Hke this, and after that
ghastly affair.'

Hush, don't talk about it,' said the lad with a shudder.
But, I say, how came you here ?'

I — I ' stammered Linnell. ' Oh, I was walking

along the cliff and I saw the window open. I thought
something was wrong, and I crossed to see.'

Did you think some one had come to run away with my
sister, Mr. Linnell ?' said the lad with a sneering laugh.
Ah, well, you needn't have been alarmed, and if they had
it would have been no business of yours.'

Richard Linnell drew his breath with a faint hiss.

That's rather a sneering remark, young gentleman,' he
said coldly ; * but there, I don't want to quarrel with you.'

All the same to me if you did, only if you will take a bit
of good advice, stop at home, and don't be hanging about
gentlemen's houses at this time of night. It looks bad.
There, now you can knock at the door and ring them up and
tell them I've gone fishing. I don't care.'

He thrust his hands in his pockets and strutted away,
trying to appear very manly and independent, but nature
would not permit him to look like anything but a big, overgrown
boy.

Richard Linnell drew his breath again with the same low
hiss, and stood watching the retiring figure, after which he
followed the boy along the cliff till he saw him reach the

pier, where a giiiff voice greeted him ; and, satisfied that the
tnith had been spoken, he turned off and went home.

Thought you wasn't coming, lad,' said Fisherman Dick.
Here, just you ketch hold o' yon basket, and let's get to work.'

Morton seized the basket of bait, and together they
walked to the very end of the pier, at one corner of which
was a gangway and some steps, down which they went to a
platform of open beams, moist with spray, and only about a
foot above the water now the tide was high, the promenade
forming the ceiling above their heads.

It was very dark, and the damp, salt smell of the weed
that hung to the piles was floating around, while the misty
spray every now and then moistened their hands and faces.
On all sides huge square wooden piles rose up, looking grim
and strange in the gloom, and before them the star-spangled
sea heaved and sank, and heaved and sighed and whispered
in amongst the woodwork, every now and then seeming to
give a hungry smack as if the waves were the lips of some
monstrous mouth, trying to seize upon the two fishers for
its prey.

Didn't I tell you ?' said Dick Higgles : * Sea's just right,
and the fish'll bite like anything. We ought to get ten
shillings' worth to-night. There you are ; go ahead.'

Dick had been busy unwinding a line, whose hooks he had
already baited ; and then, for the next quarter of an hour
they were busy catching and hauling in whiting and large

dabs, and every now and then a small conger, the basket
filling rapidly.

Then, all at once, the fish ceased biting, and they sat waiting
and feeling the lines, trying to detect a touch.

Some one coming,' said Dick suddenly, in a low whisper.
What's he want to-night ?'

Sh !' whispered back Morton. ' Don't speak, or I shall
be found out.'

Eight,' answered Dick in the same low tone ; and as
they sat there in the darkness with the water lapping just
beneath them, and a wave coming in among the piles every
now and then with a hiss and a splash, they could hear the
slow, firm tread of some one coming down the pier, right to
the end, to stand there as if listening, quite still above their
heads.

All at once the night-breeze wafted to them the scent of
a good cigar, and they knew that whoever it was must be
smoking.

At the same moment, Morton felt a tug at his line, and
he knew a fish had hooked itself.

It was all he could do to keep from dragging it in ; but
he was, in spite of his boasting, afraid of his nocturnal
expedition coming to his father's ears, and he remained still.

Fisherman Dick had moved so silently that Morton had
not heard him ; but all at once the planks overhead seemed
veined with light, and the figure of the fisherman could be

seen dimly with his face close up to a hole in the planking.
The light died out as quickly as it shone, and the odour
of tobacco diffused itself again, while the man overhead
began to walk slowly up and down.

Tug tug-tug ! How that fish — a big one, too — did pull i
But Morton resisted the temptation, and waited, till all at
once it seemed to him that the smoker must have heard
them, and was about to come down, for he was evidently
listening.

Then there was a shuffling of feet, a curious expiration of
the breath, and a sort of grunt, followed by utter silence ;
and then, some fifty yards away, right in front of where
Morton sat, there was a faint golden splash in the sea,
and the noise of, as it were, a falling stone or piece of
wood.

Almost at the same moment Morton noticed that his line
lead become phosphorescent, and he could see it for some
distance down as the fish he had hooked dragged it here
and there.

Then there was a sigh overhead as of relief, and the steps
were heard again, gradually going back along the pier, and
dying slowly away.

Simultaneously, Morton Denville and the fisherman began
hauling in their lines, the former listening the while, to make
sure that the promenade did not return ; and then, as all
was silent, their captives were drawn on to the open planking,

to break the silence with flapping and beating and
tangling the lines.

What light was that, Dick ?' said Morton, as he threw
his fish into the basket,

Dunno, sickly. Some way o' lighting another cigar.'

Who was it — could you see ?'

How's it likely I could see, squinting' through a hole like
that ? Some 'un or 'other stretching his legs, 'cause he
ain't got no work to do, I repose.'

But couldn't you see his face ?'

See his face ? Is it likely ? Just you get up and look
through that hole. Why, I had to look straight up, then
sidewise, and then straight up again, and that bends your
sight about so as you couldn't even do anything with a spyglass.'


I believe you could see who it was, and won't tell me.'

Hear that, now ! Why shouldn't I want to tell ? Says
you, I'm out on the sly, and nobody mustn't know I'm
here.'

No, I didn't,' said Morton shortly.

Well, lad, not in words you didn't ; but that's how it
seemed to be, so I kep' as quiet as I could, and whoever it
was didn't hear us.'

What did he throw into the water ?'

Stone, I repose. Some o' them dandy jacks, as looks as
if they couldn't move in their clothes, once they gets alone,

nothing they Hies better than thi-owing stones in the water.
If it wasn't that the waves washes 'em up again, they'd have
throned all Saltinville into the sea years ago.'

Two hours later, after a very successful night's sport,
Morton parted from Fisherman Dick at the shore end of the
pier, and ran home, while the owner of the lines and the
heavy basket sat down on the lid, and rubbed the back of
his head.

Yes, I did see his face, as plain as I ever see one, but I
wam't going to tell you so. Master Morton, my lad. What
did he chuck inter the sea, and what did he chuck it therefor?'


Fisherman Dick sat thinking for a few minutes, and
shaking his head, before saying aloud :

No ; it didn't sound like a stone.'

After which he had another think, and then he got up,
shouldered his basket, and went homeward, saying :

I shall have to find out what that there was.'

MISS close's library.

Miss Close's library and fancy bazaar stood facing the
sea — so near, indeed, that on stormy days she was occasionally
compelled to have the green shutters up to protect
the window-panes from the spray and shingle that were
driven across the road. But on fine days it was open to the
sunshine, and plenty of cane-seated chairs were ranged
about the roomy shop.

The back was formed of a glass partition, pretty well
covered with books, but not so closely as to hide the whole
shop from the occupants of the snug parlour, where little,
thin Miss Close sat one fine morning, like a dried specimen
of her niece, Annie Slade, a stout young lady nicknamed
Dumpling by the bucks who made the place a sort of social
exchange.

The shop was well fitted and carpeted. Glass cases, filled
with gaily-dyed wools and silks, were on the counter.
Glass cases were behind filled with knick-knacks and fancy

goods, papier-mace trays and inkstands bright with mother-of-pearl,
and ivory and ebony specimens of the turner's art.
Look where you would, everything was brightly polished,
and every speck of dust had been duly hunted out. In fact,
Miss Close's establishment whispered of prosperity, and
suggested that the little eager-eyed maiden lady must be in
the circumstances known as comfortable.

Business had not been very brisk that morning, but several
customers had called to make purchases or to change books,
and two of these latter had made purchases as well. In
fact, it was rather curious, but when certain of her clients
called, and Miss Close introduced to their notice some
special novelty, they always bought it without further
consideration.

You are such a clever business woman, auntie,' drawled
her niece. * I wish I could sell things as fast as you.'

Perhaps you will some day, my dear.'
Lady Drelincourt bought that little Tunbridge needle -
book for half a guinea, didn't she, aunt ?'

Yes, my dear,' said Miss Close, pursing up her thin lips.

She couldn't have wanted it, auntie,' drawled the girl.
I don't believe she ever used a needle in her life.'

Perhaps not, my dear, but she might want it for a
present.'

Oh, so she might ; I never thought of that. Customers !'
added the girl sharply, and rose to go into the shop.

VOL. I. 9

I'll attend to them, my dear,' said Miss Close quickly,
and she entered the shop to smilingly confront Sir Harry
Payne and Sir Matthew Bray.

Well, Miss Close, what's the newest and best book for a
man to read ?'

Eeally, Sir Harry, I am very sorry,' she said. * The
coach has not brought anything fresh, but I expect a parcel
down some time to-day. Perhaps you'd look in again?'

Ah, well, I will,' he said. ' Come along. Bray.'

Have you seen these new card-cases. Sir Matthew ?' said
the little woman, taking half a dozen from a drawer. * They
are real russia, and the gilding is of very novel design.
Only a guinea. Sir Matthew, and quite new.'

Kh, yes, very handsome indeed. A guinea, did you
say ?' he said, turning the handsome leather case over andover.


Yes, Sir Matthew. May I put it down to your account?'
Well, ah, yes — I — ah, yes, I'll take this one.'
Thank you. Sir Matthew. I'll wrap it up, please, in
silver paper ;' and, with deft fingers, the little woman
wrapped up the purchase, handed it over with a smile, and
the two friends strolled out for Sir Harry to give his friend a
light touch in the side with the head of his cane, accompanied
by a peculiar smile, which the other refused to see.

How very anxious Sir Harry seems to be to get that new
book, auntie,' drawled Annie, coming into the shop where

Miss Close was busily making an entry on her slate ; * that
makes twice he's been here to-day.'

Yes, my dear, he's a great reader. But now, Annie, the
time has come when I think I may take you into my confidence.'


La, auntie, do you?'

I do, and mind this, child : if ever you are foolish or
weak, or do anything to betray it, you leave me directly, and
that will be a very serious thing.'

Miss Slade's jaw fell, and her mouth opened widely, as
did her eyes.

Ah, I see you understand, so now come here with me.'
Miss Slade obeyed, and followed her aunt into the middle

room at the back, where, by means of a match dipped into
a bottle of phosphorus. Miss Close obtained a light and
ignited a little roll of wax taper, and then, as her niece
watched her with open eyes as they sat at the table, the
lady took a small letter from her pocket and laid it with its
sealed side uppermost on the table.

Why, I saw Sir Harry Payne give you that letter this
morning, auntie, when he came first.'

Oh, you saw that, did you?' said Miss Close.

Yes, auntie, and I thought first he had given it to you to
post, and then as you didn't send me with it, I wondered
why he had written to you.'

He did give it to me to post, my dear,' said Miss Close

9—2

with a curious single, ' and before I post it I am bound to
see that he has not written anything that is not good for
the la person it is for.'

Oh, yes, auntie, I see,' said Miss Slade, resting her fat
cheeks on her fat fingers, and watching attentively as her
aunt took out a seal from a tin box, one that looked as if it
were made of putty, and compared it with the sealing-wax
on the letter.

This being satisfactory, she cleverly held the wax to the
little taper till it began to bubble and boil, when it parted
easily, the paper being drawn open and only some silky
threads of wax securing it, these being at once brushed aside.

Oh, you have got it open lovely, auntie,' said the girl.

Yes, my dear ; and now I am going to read it,' said Miss
Close, suiting the deed to the word, skimming through the
note rapidly, and then refolding it.

Oh, I say, auntie, what does he say ?' said the girl with
her eyes sparkling. ' Is it about love ?'

Don't ask questions, and you will not get strange answers,'
said Miss Close austerely, as she deftly melted the wax
once more, and applied the well-made bread seal, after
which there was nothing to show that the letter had been
opened. ' I see, though, that it was quite time I did trust
you, my dear, and I hope I shall have no cause to repent.'

Just then a customer entered the shop, and again Miss
Close went to attend.

I know it was a love-letter,' said Annie quickly ; ' and it
was Sir Harry Payne wrote it. I wonder who it was to. I
wish he'd make love to me.'

Miss Close came back directly with a volume of poems in
her hand — a new copy, and looking significantly at her
niece she said :

I'm going to post that letter, my dear. Don't you touch
it, mind.'

As she spoke she thrust the note between the leaves, and
then walked into the shop with her niece, and placed the
book upon a shelf.

There, if you behave yourself you shall see who buys
those poems ; but, once more, never a word to a soul.'

Oh, no, auntie, never,' said the girl, with her big eyes
rolling. * But oh, I say, auntie, isn't it fun ?'

Isn't what fun ?'

I know,' giggled the girl ; ' there was a letter in that
card-case you sold. I saw you put it there.'

Well, well, perhaps there was, my dear. I must oblige
customers, and the profits on things are so small, and rents
so high. We must live, you see. And now mind this : if
Mrs. Frank Burnett comes, you call me.'

Couldn't I sell her that volume of poems, auntie ?' said
the girl eagerly.

No, certainly not ; and now look here, miss. Don't you
ever pretend to be simple any more.'

*No, auntie,' said the girl, 'I won't;' and she drew her
breath thickly and gave a smack with her lips, as if she
were tasting something very nice.

Loungers dropped in, and loungers dropped out, coming
for the most part to meet other loungers, and, like the
Athenians of old, to ask whether there was anything new.
Sometimes Miss Close was consulted, and when this was
the case, her way was soft, deprecating, and diffident. She
thought she had heard this ; she believed that she had heard
that ; she would endeavour to find out ; or, yes, to be sure,
her ladyship was right : it was so, she remembered now.
While when not invited to give opinions, she was busy in
the extreme over some item connected with her business,
and hearing and seeing nothing, with that bended head so
intent upon arranging, or booking, or tying up.

There was very little, though, that Miss Close did not
hear, especially when some one of a group said, 'Oh, fie !'
or * No, really, now !' or * How shocking !' and there was a
little burst of giggles.

In due time, just as Miss Close was instructing her niece
in the art of tying up a packet of wools, so that one end was
left open and the dealer could see at a glance what colours
it contained, Annie's jaw dropped, and seemed to draw down
the lower Hds of her eyes, so that they were opened to the
fullest extent, for Frank Burnett's handsome britzka drew
up at the door, the steps where rattled down, flip, flop, flap.

with a vigorous action that would bring people to the
windows to see, and, all sweetness in appearance and odour,
like the blossom she was, the M.C.'s idol stepped daintily
rustling down, the ver' model of all that was naive and
girlish.

Who'd ever think she was a wife ?' said Miss Close to
herself.

Oh my ! isn't she pretty?' said Annie.

Go on tying up those packets, and don't take any notice,'
said Miss Close; and then, with the greatest of deference,
wished her visitor good-morning, and begged to know how
she was.

Not very well, Miss Close : so tired. Society is so
exacting. Can you recommend me any book that will
distract me a little ?'

Let me see, ma'am,' said Miss Close, turning her head
on one side in a very bird-like way, and bending forward as
if she were going to peck a seed off the counter.

Something that will really take me out of myself.'
The last romance might be too exciting, ma'am ?'

Do you think it would ?'

Ye-e-e-es. Oh, yes, decidedly so in your case, ma'am,'
said Miss Close, in quite the tone of a female physician.
Poems — soft, dreamy, soothing poems, now, would I think
be most suited.'

Oh, do you think so?' said Mrs. Burnett half pettishly.

Yes, ma'am, I have a volmne here, not included in the
library, but for sale — "Lays of the Heart-strings" — by a
gentleman of quality. I should recommend it strongly.'

Oh, dear no,' exclaimed the visitor, as Miss Close took
the work from the shelf. ' I don't think a — well, I will
look at it,' she said, blushing vividly, as she saw that the
book did not thoroughly close in one part. * Perhaps you
are right, Miss Close. I will take it. What is the price ?'

Half a guinea, ma'am, to subscribers, and I will call you
a subscriber. Shall I do it up in paper ?'

Yes, by all means. What delightful weather we arc
having !'

Delightful, indeed, ma'am,' said Miss Close, whose face
was simply business-like. There was not a nerve-twitch,
not a peculiar glance to indicate that she was playing a
double part ; and it was wonderfully convenient. Visitors
both ladies and gentlemen, liked it immensely, and patronized
her accordingly, for no Artesian well was ever so deep and
dark as Miss Close, or as silent. She knew absolutely
nothing. Mrs. Frank Burnett had bought a volume of poems
at her establishment, that was all. Anybody might have
slipped the note inside. While as to seeking a client's confidence,
or alluding in the mildest way to any little transaction
that had taken place for the sake of obtaining further
fee or reward, any client would have told you that with the
purchase of book, album, card-case, or needle-housewife,

every transaction was at an end; and so Miss Close's
business throve, and Lord Carboro' called her the Saltinville
sphinx.

Is there any particular news stirring, Miss Close ?'

Really, no, ma'am,' said that lady, pausing in the act of
cutting the twine that confined the book. * A new family
has come to the George ; and, by the way, I have to send
their cards to Mr. Demrille.'

Oh, of course, I don't want to knows anything about that,'
said Mrs. Burnett hastily.

The officers are talking of getting up a ball before long,
and they say that a certain person will be there.'

Indeed I' said the visitor, flushing.

Yes, ma'am, I was told so, and — ahem I — here is Lord
Carboro'. Half a guinea, ma'am, if you please.'

Surely there was no occasion for a lady to look so flushed
in the act of extricating a little gold coin from her purse ;
but somehow the ordinary sweet ingenuous look would not
come back to May Burnett's face, any more than the coin
would consent to come out of the little, long net purse with
gold tassels and slides ; and the colour deepened as the keen
little eyes of the old man settled for a moment on the 
book, and then on Miss Close's face.

What an old sphinx it is,' he thought to himself. * The
day grows brighter every hour, Mrs. Burnett,' he said
gallantly. ' It has culminated in the sight of you.'

Your lordship's compliments are overpowering,' said the
lady, with a profound curtsey ; and then she secured her
book and would have fled, but his lordship insisted upon
escorting her to her carriage, hat in hand, and he cursed
that new pomade in a way that was silent but not divine,
for it lifted one side of his hair as if he were being scalped
when he raised his hat.

Good-morning, good-morning !' he said, as the carriage
drove off. * Little wretch,' he muttered as he watched the
equipage out of sight, but with his hat on now. * I hate
scandal, but if we don't have a toothsome bit before long
over that little woman, I'm no man. It's vexatious, too,'
he said angrily, ' doosid vexatious. I don't like it. So different
to the other, and our sweet Christians here will throw
dirt at both. Can't help it; can't help it. Well, Miss Close,
anything you want to recommend to me '?'

Yes, my lord, I have a very charming little tortoiseshell-covered
engagement-book or two. Most elegant and very
cheap.'

I don't want cheap things, my dear little woman. Let
me see, let me see. Oh, yes, very nice indeed,* he said,
opening the case, and letting a scented note drop out on the
counter. * Same make, I see, as the cigar-case I bought last
week.'

'No, my lord, it is French.'

No, no — no, no ; don't tell me — English, English. People

have stuck their advertisement in. Send it back to 'em.
Do for some one else.'

Then your lordship does not like the case ?'

My dear little woman, but I do, doosidly, but don't offer
me any more with that person's circular inside. There, there,
there; take the price out of that five-pound note. Two
guineas? And very cheap too. Doosid pretty little piece
of art, Miss Close. Doosid pretty little piece of art.'

Wouldn't he have old Mrs. Dean's pink note, auntie ?'
said Annie, as soon as this lordship had gone.

My dear child, this will never do. You see and hear far
too much.'

Please auntie, I can't help it,' drawled the girl. ' I
shouldn't speak Uke that to anyone else.'

Ah, well, I suppose not ; and I have done right, I see.
No ; he would not have the pink note. This is the second
he has refused. Old Mrs. Dean will be furious, but she
must have known that it would not last long.'

I know why it is,' said Annie eagerly. ' I know,,
auntie.'

You know, child ?'

Yes, auntie ; old Lord '

Hush ! don't call people old.'

Lord Carboro' has taken a fancy to some one else.'

Well, perhaps so,' said Miss Close, tapping her niece's
fat cheek, and smiling. ' People do take fancies, even when

they are growing older,' she added with a sigh. ' Well, he
hasn't taken a fancy to you.'

Ugh ! Oh, gracious, auntie, don't,' said the girl with a
shudder. ' He's such a horrid old man. I can't think how
it was that beautiful Miss Cora Dean could like him.'

I can,' said Miss Close shortly. ' Now go and see about
the dinner, and don't talk so much.'

MRS. dean's Drive.

May Burnett, with her Httle palpitating heart full of trouble,
pretty butterfly of fashion that she was, was flitting through
the sunshine one afternoon for the second time to confide
her troublesome secret to her sister and obtain her help, but
her heart failed her again. The right road was so steep and
hard, so she turned down the wrong one once more, laughed
at Claire, and left her with saddened face, as in response to
the again-repeated question, ' Why did you come ?' she
replied :

Oh, I don't know. Just to try and make people forget
what a horrible house this has been. I almost wonder,
though, that I dare to call.'

She gave her sister a child-like kiss, and away she went
full sail, and with no more ballast than she possessed two
years before, at the time she was so severely taken to task
for flirting with Louis Gravani, when the handsome young
artist painted her portrait and that of her father, hers to

hang in the drawing-room, that of the Master of the Ceremonies
in the ante-room at the Assembly Rooms.

Claire went to the window to gaze down over the flowers
in the balcony at her sister, as she stepped lightly into her
carriage, just as manly, handsome Richard Linnell came by
on the other side, to raise his hat gravely to each of the
sisters in turn, with the effect of making Claire shrink back
more into the room, so that she only heard the door of the
britzka banged to, and the horses start off, while Richard
Linnell went on with bended head and knitted brows,
thinking of the part he had taken in the serenade on that
terrible night.

Goose !' said May Burnett to herself angrily, as she
ordered the footman to go to Miss Close's. * I believe she'd
be ready to throw herself away on that penniless fellow. I
haven't patience with her, and '

Here she had to bend to a couple of ladies with a most
gracious smile. A few yards further and she encountered
Lord Carboro', whose hat was carefully raised to her, and
on turning the bend where the cliff curved off to the north,
she came suddenly upon a handsome pony carriage, driven
by Cora Dean in a dazzling new costume of creamy silk and
lace, while her mother leaned back in ruby satin, with her
eyes half closed, a small groom behind, seated upon a very
tiny perch, having his arms closely folded, and his hat cocked
at a wonderful angle.

The driver of the high-stepping pair of ponies stared hard
at May Burnett, while that lady leaned back languidly, and
quite ignored the presence of the handsome actress.

Little upstart !' muttered Cora, as she gave her ponies a
sharp cut, making them tear along. * I'm not good enough
for her to even see ; but maybe smuts will fall on the whitest
snow. Who knows, my pretty baby madam? Get on with
you then !'

Whish-sivish, and the ponies sent the chalky dust flying
as they tore along.

Now, lookye here, Betsy, once for all,' said Mrs. Dean
angrily ; ' if you are going to drive like that, I stay at home.
I like my bones, though they do ache sometimes, and I'm
not going to have them broke to please you.'

Cora frowned, and softly took up the second rein with the
effect of checking the ponies' rattling gallop just as heads
were being turned and gentlemen on horseback where starting
off in pursuit.

*I ain't easily frightened, Betsy, you*know,' said Mrs.
Dean, panting. * Speaking as a woman as has faced a
whole company in the bad days on treasury night, when
there's been nothing in the cash-box, and your poor father
off his head, I say I ain't easily frightened.'

Now, mother — I mean mamma — how are wee to get into
society if you will refer so constantly to those wretched old
days ?'

They weren't wretched old days, my dear, and I was a
deal happier then than I am now. But never mind ; we've
got our tickets. I knew old Denville would get 'em, and
my Betsy '11 startle some of 'em at the ball, I know. Hold
'em in tighter, my dear, do.'

Don't be so foolishly nervous, mother. I have them
well in hand.'

But why does that one keep laying down its ears and
squeaking, and trying to bite t'other one ?'

Play,' said Cora shortly.

Then I wish he'd play in the stable, and behave himself
when he comes out on the cliff. My word, look at that
old Drelincourt, Bet — Cora,' said the old woman, giving her
daughter a nudge. ' Look at the nasty old thing in black.
If she'd had any decency, she'd have left the place when
her old sister was killed, instead of being pushed about in
her chair like that.'

But she has a house here of her own,' said Cora
shortly, as she guided her ponies in and out among the
fashionable equipages, not one of whose lady occupants
noticed her.

Look at 'em,' whispered Mrs. Dean, nudging her daughter
again. * They're a-busting with envy, but they shall be
civil to you yet. I did grudge the money for the turn out,
and I told Ashley it was a swindle, but they do show off,
and I'm glad I bought 'em. Look at the fine madams in

that brooch ; they're as envious as can be. Hit 'm up, Cora,
and make 'em go. I should like to see anybody else's gal
with such a turn-out.'

Too showy, and with a suspicion of the circus in the
style of the harness and the colours of the rosettes; but
Cora , Dean's pony carriage, driven as it was in masterly
style, created no little sensation in Saltinville ; and if, in
addition to the salutes of the gentlemen, which she acknowledged
very superciliously, only one lady would have bowed
in recognition, Cora Dean would have enjoyed her drive,
and probably have gone more slowly.

As it was, in obedience to her mother's nudges and admonitions
to * Hit 'm up again,' she gave the ponies flick
after flick with the whip, and increased the restiveness
consequent upon plenty of spirit and too much corn.

It was a risky drive with restive beasts along that cliff
with so slight a railing, and the archives of the town told
how one Sir Humble Thornton had gone over with his
curricle and pair on to the shingle below, to be killed with
his horses. But Cora Dean and her mother thought only
of making a show, and the well-bred little ponies seemed to
be kept thoroughly in hand by their mistress, though they
were fretting and champing their bits and sending flakes of
foam all over their satin coats.

I'm getting used to it now, Cora, my dear,' panted the
old woman. ' I don't feel so squire inside, and as if I

VOL. I. 10

should be obliged to go home for a drop of brandy.
Humph ! I wish you wouldn't bow to him.'

Why not ? He's our neighbour,' said Cora tartly, as
Eichard Linnell took off his hat. ' He's the most thorough
gentleman in this town.'

Perhaps he is, but I don't think anything of such gentlemen
as he is — now Betsy, do a' done. Don't drive like
that. I was getting used to it, but now you've made my
pore 'art fly up into my mouth.'

A sharp snatch at the reins had 'made the ponies rear up,
and Richard Linnell, who was looking after them, started
to go to Cora's help, but a cut of the whip sent the two ponies
on again, and the carriage spun along, past the wide opening
to the pier, down which Richard Linnell turned to think out
how he might get over the prejudice he knew that Mr.
Denville had against him, and to wonder why Claire had
grown so cold and strange.

I am getting well used to it now, Betsy,' said Mrs. Dean,
as they drove right along the London road for a mile or
two ; * but, I say, hadn't you better turn their heads now ?
Let's get back on the cliff, where they can see us. I hate
these fields and hedges. Let's go back by the other road,
down by Lord Carboro's house, and through the street
down to the pier.'

Very well,' said Cora shortly ; and she turned the
ponies, and took the upper road.

Now, it so happened that after a short promenade Lord
Carboro' had found out that it was going to rain, by a
double barometer which he carried in his boots.

Confound these corns !' he grumbled. * Ah, Barclay,' he
cried to a thick-set man whom he met at that moment,
collecting your dues ? It's going to rain.'
Yes, my lord. My corns shoot horribly.'
So do mine ; doosid bad. I'm going to get the carriage
and have a drive. Can't walk.'

He nodded and went back to his handsome house and
grounds, contenting himself with sitting down in the lodge
portico while the gardener's wife ordered the carriage to begot
ready.

It isn't handsome, but it suits me,' his lordship used to
say, * and it's comfortable. If I can't have things as I like
with my money, and at my time of life, why it's doosid
strange.'

So he waited till a groom brought the carriage down the
drive, and then looked at it as it came.

Don't do to go wooing in,' he said, with a chuckle, as he
got in and took the reins ; and certainly it did not look like
the chariot of love, for it was a little, low basket carriage,
big enough to hold one, and shaped very much like a bath-chair.
It was drawn by a very large, grey, well-clipped
donkey with enormous ears, quite an aristocrat of his race,
with his well-filled skin and carefully blackened harness.

10—2

Thanks, John. Thanks, Mrs. Roberts,' said his lordship,
as he shook the reins. * Go on, Balaam.'^

Balaam went deliberately on, and just as they were going
out of the great iron gates, and his lordship was indulging
in a pinch of snuff, there was the rattle of wheels to his
right, and Cora Dean came along with her ponies at a smart
trot, her mother looking like an over-blown peony by her
side.

Juno, by Jove !' said his lordship, preparing to raise
this hat.

But just then — it was a matter of moments — Balaam
stood stock still, drew his great flap ears forward and
pointed them at the ponies, and staring hard, lifted his tail,
and, showing his teeth, uttered with outstretched neck a
most discordant roaring — Hee-hair — Hee-hmu !
'■■ Cora's ponies stopped short, trembling and snorting.
Then, with a jerk that threatened to snap the harness, and
as if moved by the same impulse, they plunged forward
and tore down the road that, a hundred yards further on,
became busy street, and went down at a sharp angle right
for the pier.

'Betsy !' shouted Mrs. Dean.

Cora sat firm as a rock, and caught up the second rein to
pull heavily on the curb, when — sncqj ! — the rein parted at
the buckle, and with only the regular snaffle rein to check
the headlong gallop, the driver dragged in vain.

The road became street almost like a flash ; the street
with its busy shops seemed to rush by the carriage ; a bath-chair
at a shop door, fortunately empty, was caught, in
spite of Cora's efforts to guide the ponies, and smashed to
atoms, the flying pieces and the noise maddening the ponies
in their headlong race.

It was a steep descent, too, and with such bits even a
man's arm could not have restrained the fiery little animals
as they tore on straight for the sea.

By Jove !' panted Lord Carboro', jumping out of his
little carriage, and, forgetful of all infirmities, he began to
run ; * they'll be over the cliff. No, by all that's horrible,
they'll go right down the pier !'

MISS dean's ponies.

EiCHAKD Lineal was very blind as he walked down the
pier, stopping here and there to lay his hand upon the slight
rail, and watch the changing colours on the sea, which was
here one dazzling sheen of silver, there stained with shade
after shade of glorious blue, borrowed from the sky, which
was as smiling now as it was tearful but a few days back,
when it was clouded over with gloom.

Then he gazed wistfully at a mackerel boat that could not
get in for want of wind, and lay with its mast describing
arcs on the ether, while its brown sails kept filling out and
flapping, and then hanging empty from the spars.

It was a glorious day ; one that should have filled all
young and buoyant hearts with hope, but Richard Linnell's
was not buoyant, for it felt heavy as lead.

He told himself that he loved Claire Denville truly a
man could love ; and time back she had been ready to
respond to his bows ; her eyes, too, had seemed to look

brightly upon him ; but since that dreadful night when he
had been deluded into making one of the half-tipsy party
gathered beneath her window, and had played that serenade,
all had been changed.

It was horrible ! Such a night as that, when, judging
from what he could glean, the agony and trouble of father
and daughter must have been unbearable. And yet he had
been there like some contemptible street musician playing
beneath her window, and she must know it was he.

That white hand that opened the window and waved them
away was not hers, though, but old Denville's, and that
was the only relief he found.

He was very blind, or he would have seen more than one
pair of eyes brighten as he sauntered down the pier, and
more than one fan flutter as he drew near, and its owner
prepare to return his bow while he passed on with his eyes
mentally closed.

He was very blind, for he did not see one of the attractive
ladies, nor one of those who tried to be attractive as he
dawdled on, thinking of the face that appeared, somehow,
among the flowers at Claire Denville's window ; then of
pretty little blossom-like May Burnett, who people said was
so light and frivolous.

Then he asked himself why he was frittering away his life
in Saltinville with his father instead of taking to some manly
career, and making for himself a name.

Because I'm chained,' he said, half aloud, as he returned
a couple of salutes from Sir Harry Payne and Sir Matthew
Bray — rather coldly given, condescending salutations that
brought a curl of contempt to his lip.

These gentlemen were near the end of the pier, and he
passed them, and went on to look out to sea on the other
side, where a swarthy-looking man was wading nearly to
his arm-pits, and pushing a pole before him, while a creel
hung upon his back.

I tell you what,' said a loud voice, * let's go back now,
Josiah, and wait till he comes ashore, and then you can buy
a pint o' the live shrimps, and I'll see them boiled myself.'

No, no. Here's Major Eockley,' said the speaker's companion,
Josiah Barclay, twitching his heavy brows. * He
wants to see me about some money. Why he looks as if
he was going to buy shrimps himself. How do, Mr. Linnell !'

Richard bowed to the thick-set busy-looking man, and to
his pleasant-faced plump lady, who smiled at him in turn,
and then passed on, walking back and passing the Major,
who did not see him, but watched the fisherman as he
lifted his net, picked out the shrimps, shook it, and plunged
it in again to wade on through the calm water, and pushing
it before him as he went.

There were other looks directed at the handsome young
fellow, who seemed so unconscious, and so great a contrast
to the bucks and beaux who were waving clouded canes,

taking snuff from gold boxes, and standing in groups in
studied attitudes.

Even Lady Drelincourt in her deep mourning, and with a
precaution taken against any further mishap to her pet, in
the shape of a delicately thin plated chain, smiled as Eichard
Linnell drew near, and waited for an admiring glance and a
bow, and when they did not come, said ' Boor !' half audibly
and closed her fan with a snap.

Beg pardon, malady,' said the tall footman.

Turn the chair and go back.'

The tall footman in black, with the great plaited worsted
aiguillettes looped so gracefully up to the buttons on his
breast, did not turn the chair, but turned round and stared
with parted lips and a look of bewildered horror towards the
shore end of the pier, from whence came all at once a rushing
sound, shrieks, cries, and then the rapid beating of horses'
feet, sounding hollow upon the boards, and the whirr of wheels.

Take care !'
Eun r

Keep to the side !'

No. Get to the end.'

There was a rush and confusion. Ladies shrieked and
fainted. Gentlemen ran to their help, or ran to their own
help to get out of the way. Sir Harry Payne and his
friend climbed over the railing and stood outside on the edge
of the pier, holding on to the bar to avoid a fall into the

water. Major Eockley did likewise on the other side, and
all the while the rush, the trampling, and the hollow sound
increased.

It was only a matter of moments. Cora Dean's handsome
ponies had not gone right over the cliff; but in
response to a desperate tug at the reins given by their
driver, had swerved a little and dashed through the pier
gateway, and then the loungers saw the beautiful woman,
with her lips compressed, sitting upright, pulling at the reins
with both hands, while her mother in her rich satin dress
crouched down with her eyes shut and her full florid face
horribly mottled with white.

It was a case of sauve qui i:)eut for the most part, as the
frantic ponies, growing more frightened by the shouts and
cries and the hollow beating of their hoofs, tore on to what
seemed to be certain death.

Here, old girl, quick, down here !' cried Barclay, as he
saw the coming danger ; and he thrust his trembling wife
into one of the embankments at the side of the pier, where
there was a shelter for the look-out men and the materials
for trimming the pier-lights were kept. * Bravo ! bravo,
lad !' he cried hoarsely, as he saw Eichard Linnell dash
forward, and, at the imminent peril of his life, snatch at the
bearing rein of one of the ponies, catch hold and hang to it,
as the force with which the animals were galloping on took
him off his legs.

It was a score of yards from Barclay, who was going to
his aid when the rein broke, and Richard Linnell fell and
rolled over and over to strike against a group of shrieking
women clinging to the side railings. The ponies tore on
past Barclay, whose well-meant efforts to check them were
vain, and before the danger could be thoroughly realized
Cora Dean's little steeds had blindly rushed at the rotting
railings at the end of the pier, and gone through them.
There was a hoarse, wild shriek from half a hundred voices,
a crash, a plunge, and ponies, carriage, and the occupants
were in the sea.

A boat !'

The ife-buoy !'

'Ropes here, quick.'

Help !— help !'

Cries ; the rush of a crowd to the end of the pier.

A very Babel of confusion, in the midst of which a man
was seen to plunge off the end of the pier and swim towards
where Cora Dean could be seen clinging to the broad splash-board
of the carriage, drawn through the water, while, after
rising from their plunge, the ponies swam together for a few
moments, and then began to snort and plunge, and were
rapidly drowning each other.

Oh, horrid, horrid, horrid !' cried a woman's voice.
Help ! help ! Josiah, come back ! He'll be drowned !'

For Josiah Barclay had seized a life-buoy, and throwing

off his coat, boldly plunged in after the first man had set an
example.

A good job if he is,' muttered Sir Matthew Bray — a
kindly wish echoed by several lookers-on who thought of
certain slips of paper (stamped) that the money-lender had
in his cash-box at home.

But Josiah Barclay did not find a fair amount of stoutness
interfere with his floating powers, as he held on to the
life-buoy with one hand, swimming with the other towards
what looked like a patch of red in the sea, surrounding a
white face ; and a roar of cheers rose from the crowd who
were watching him as he reached Mrs. Dean, who had
rolled from the carriage, and now gripped the life-buoy as it
was pushed towards her, and fainted away.

But the majority were watching the daring man who was
striving after the ponies, which were now about fifty yards
from the pier, and instead of swimming away, pawing the
water frantically, so that the end of the accident seemed
near.

Boats were putting off from the shore, but it would belong
enough before they could do any good. The chances
were that the end would have come before they reached the
spot, and Richard Linnell was now within half a dozen yards.

Let go,' he shouted to Cora. ' Try and throw yourself
out this side, and I'll get you ashore.'

She only turned a dazed, despairing look in his direction,

too much paralyzed by the horror of her situation to even
grasp his meaning.

All right, Master Linnell, sir,' growled a deep voice.
Take it coolly, and we'll do it.'

Linnell glanced aside, and saw that the swarthy fisherman
who had been shrinking was not a couple of yards
behind him.

Look ye here, sir. Let the lady be. I'll go round
t'other side. You go this. Mind they don't kick you. Take
care. Wo-ho, my pretties ; wo-ho, my lads,' he cried to the
ponies, as, perfectly at his ease in the water, he swam past
their heads, well clear of their beating and pawing hoofs,
and got to the other side.

Li cases of emergency, whether the order be right or
wrong, one that is given by a firm, cool man is generally
obeyed, and it was so here, for Linnell took a stroke or two
forward towards the off-side pony, leaving Cora clinging to
the front of the little carriage.

Wo-ho, my beauties. Steady, boys,' cried the big fisherman
soothingly.

Woa, lad, woa, then,' cried Linnell, in imitation of his
companion.

The ponies, the moment before snorting and plunging
desperately, seemed to gather encouragement from the
voices, and ceasing their frantic efforts, allowed themselves
to sink lower in the water, let their bits be seized, and with

outstretched necks, and nostrils just clear of the water, began
to swan steadily and well.

That's it, lads, steady it is !' cried the fisherman. ' Layout
well clear of 'em. Master Linnell, sir. Mind they don't
kick you. I'll steer 'em, and we shall do it. You hold on,
mum; it's all right.'

Cora's head and shoulders were above the water and the
ponies were swimming well now, and obeying the pressure
of the fisherman's hand, though they needed little guidance
now they were making steadily for the shore.

I thought they'd do it, Master Linnell, sir. Good boys,
then. Good lads. Pity to let 'em drown,' said the fisherman
coolly.

Eight,' cried Linnell, easing the pony on his side by
swimming with one hand. ' Keep still. Miss Dean. We
shall soon be ashore. There's no danger now. Yes, there
is,' he muttered. ' Those boats.'

Cora turned her eyes upon him with a frightened look,
but she was growing more calm, though she could not
speak, and the ponies kept on snorting loudly as they
swam on.

Keep quiet, will you, you fools !' grumbled DickMiggles,
as bursts of cheers kept rising from the pier, answered by a
gathering crowd on the beach about where they were expected
to land, while the cliff was now lined with people who had
heard of the accident on the pier.

Here ! hoy !' roared Dick Higgles, who had grasped
the danger. ' Wo-ho, my boys, I'm with you. It's all
right.'

Ahoy !' came from the nearest boat, whose occupants
were rowing with all their might.

Back with you. D'ye hear ! Wo-ho, lads ; it's all right.
Back, I say. You'll frighten the horses again.'

We're coming to help you,' came from the boat.

Go back, curse yer !' roared Dick. ' Don't you see what
you're doing.'

The ponies were getting scared by the shouting, but by
dint of patting and soothing words, they were calmed down
once more, and the boatmen, in obedience to the orders
given, ceased rowing.

Go back, and bid 'em hold their row,' cried Dick, as he
guided the ponies. ' We must get in quiet, or the horses '11
go mad again.'

The men rowed back, communicating their orders to the
other boats, whose occupants rested on their oars, while,
like some sea-queen, Cora was drawn on in her chariot
towards the shore, but looking terribly unaccustomed to the
mode of procedure, as she still clung to the front of the little
carriage.

Higgles.'

'Illo ?'

Can you manage them alone ? The lady.'

All right, Master Linnell, sir. They'll go now. We shall
be ashore directly.'

He had turned his head and seen what was wrong as
Eichard Linnell loosed his hold of the pony's head, letting it
swim on, though the frightened beast uttered a snorting
heigh and tried to follow him, till its attention was taken up
by the soothing words of Dick Higgles, and it struck out
afresh for the shore.

Meanwhile Eichard had caught Cora Dean as she loosened
her grasp of the front of the carriage, for he had seen that
something was coming as her countenance changed and her
eyes half closed.

It was an easy task, for he had only to check her as she
was floating out of the carriage, and take hold of the front
with his right hand to let himself be drawn ashore.

She opened her eyes again with a start, as if she were
making an effort to master her emotion, and they rested on
Linnell's as he held her tightly to his breast. Then she
shivered and clung to him, and the next minute the ponies'
hoofs touched the shingly bottom, and people began to
realize how it was that the carriage had not sunk in the
deep water and dragged the ponies down.

It was plain enough. There was nothing but the slight
body with its seats, which had been torn from springs, axletrees,
and wheels, giving it more than ever the aspect of a
chariot drawn by sea-horses through the waves.

The ponies were for making a fresh dash as soon as they
felt the yielding shingle beneath their hoofs, but a dozen
willing hands were at their heads ; the remains of the
carriage were drawn up the beach, and the traces were
loosened and twisted up, while Cora was borne by a couple
of gentlemen to one of several carriages offered to bear her
home.

As for Linnell, he was surrounded by an excited crowd of
people eager to shake hands with him, but none of whom
could answer his questions about Mrs. Dean.

Mrs. Dean ?' said a wet, thick-set man, elbowing his
way through. ' All right ; sent home in Lord Carboro's
donkey-carriage. Mr. Linnell, sir, your hand, sir. God
bless you, sir, for a brave gentleman ! Nice pair of wet
ones, aren't we ?'

Oh, never mind, Mr. Barclay,' cried Linnell, shaking
hands. * I'm only too thankful that we have got them safe
ashore.'

With no more harm done than to give the coachbuilder
a job, eh? Ha, ha!'

Three cheers for 'em !' shouted a voice ; and they were
heartily given.

And three more for Fisherman Dick !' cried Linnell.

Don't, Master Eichard, sir — please don't !' cried the
swarthy fisherman modestly.

He did more than I did.'

VOL. I. 11

No, no, Master Eichard, sir,' protested Dick, as the
cheers were heartily given ; and then a horrible thought
smote Linnell :

The boy — Mrs. Dean's little groom ! Where is he ?'

Oh, I'm all right, sir,' cried a shrill voice. * When I see
as missus couldn't stop the ponies, I dropped down off my
seat on to the pier.'

Hurray ! Well done, youngster !' cried first one and
then another,.

Look here, Mr. Eichard,' cried Barclay ; * my place is
nearest ; come there, and send for some dry clothes.'

No, no ; I'll get back,' said Linnell. * Thanks all the
same. Let me pass, please ;' and as Cora Dean's ponies
were led off to their stable, and Barclay went towards where
plump Mrs. Barclay was signalling him on the cliff, the
young man hurried off homeward, followed by bursts of
cheers, and having hard work to escape from the many
idlers who were eager to shake his hand.

UNREASONABLE CHILDREN.

Claire, Claire ! Quick, Claire !'

Pale and very anxious of aspect, Claire hurried down from
her room, to find her father, in his elaborate costume,
standing in an attitude before one of the mirrors, not heeding
her, so wrapped was he in his thoughts.

Her brow contracted, and she looked at him wonderingly,
asking herself was his memory going, or was something
more terrible than the loss of memory coming on ? for he
appeared to have forgotten that which was an agony to her,
night and day.

Something had happened to please him, she knew, for his
countenance at such times was easy to read ; but all the same,
his worn aspect was pitiable, and it was plain that beneath
the mask he wore the terrible care was working its way.

What is it, papa ?' she said, in the calm, sad way which
had become habitual with her.

What is it ?' he cried, in his mincing, artificial style.

11—2

Success ! Assured fortune ! The wretched fribbles who
have been disposed to slight me and refuse my offices will
now be at my feet. A brilliant match for you, and a high
position in the world of fashion.'

Father !'

Hush, child, and listen. The position of both of you is
assured ; a peaceful and more prosperous fortune for me 1
The few trifles I ask for : my snuff, a glass of port — one
only — my cutlet, a suit of clothes when I desire a change,
without an insulting reference to an old bill, the deference
of tradespeople, freedom from debt. Claire, at last, at last !'

Oh, papa !' cried the girl, with the tears welling over and
dropping slowly from her beautiful eyes, while her sweet
mouth seemed all a-tremble, and her agitated hands were
stretched out to clasp the old man's arm.

But he waved her off.

Don't, don't, Claire,' he said quickly. * See there. I
do detest to have my coat spotted. It is so foolish and weak.'

Claire smiled — a sweet, sad smile — as she drew a clean
cambric handkerchief from the pocket of her apron, shook
it out, showing a long slit and a series of careful darns,
removed the pearly drop before it had time to soak the
cloth, and exclaimed :

Then the town has conferred a salary upon you ?'

Pah ! As if I would condescend to take it, girl !' cried
the old man, drawing himself up more stiffly.

A legacy ?'

The Master of the Ceremonies shook his head.

A commission for Morton T

No, no, no.'
Then '

The old man waved his cane with a graceful flourish, placed
it in the hand that held his snuff-box, opened the latter,
and, after tapping it, took a pinch, as if it were a matter
calling forth long study of deportment to perform, closed the
box with a loud snap, and said, in a haughty, affected
tone :

Half an hour since, on a well-filled parade, I encountered
His Eoyal Highness and a group of friends.'

He paused, and took out a silk handkerchief, embroidered
here and there with purple flowers by his child.

And then '

There was a flourish of the handkerchief, and the flicking
away of imaginary specks from the tightly-buttoned coat.

His Royal Highness '

Yes, papa,' said Claire piteously, as he looked at her as
if asking her attention.

At that moment Morton entered, looking weary and discontented
; but, seeing his father's peculiar look, he checked
the words he was about to say, and watched his face ashe
gave his handkerchief another flourish, replaced it, and
took his cane from his left hand to twirl it gracefully.

His Eoyal Highness shook hands with me.'

Oh !' exclaimed Morton, while Claire's brow grew more
rugged.

Shook hands with you, father ?' said Morton eagerly.

And asked me for a pinch of snuff.'

There was a dead silence in the room as Claire clasped
her hands together and trembled, and seemed about to speak,
but dared not ; while Morton screwed up his mouth to
whistle, but refrained, looking half contemptuously at his
father the while.

Fortune has thrown a magnificent chance in our
way.'

I say, dad, what do you mean with your magnificent
chance ?'

I have hopes, too, for Claire. I cannot say much yet,
but I have great hopes,' he continued, ignoring the question
of his son.

Oh, papa !'

Yes, my child, I have. I can say no more now, but I
have hopes.'

Claire's careworn face grew more cloudy as she uttered a
low sigh.

But look here, father ; what do you mean,' repeated
Morton, ' by your magnificent chance ?'

The Master of the Ceremonies coughed behind one delicate
hand, brushed a few imaginary specks from his sleeve,

then took out his snuff-box, and refreshed himself with a
pinch in a very elaborate way.

You are a man now, Morton, and I will speak plainly to
you, as I have before now spoken plainly to your sisters.
My only hope for the future is to see you both make good
marriages.'

Why, that won't send you to heaven, father,' said the
lad, grinning.

I mean my — our — earthly future, sir,' said the old man.
This is no time for ribald jest. Eemember your duty tome,
sir, and follow out my wishes.'

'Oh, very well, father,' said Morton sulkily.

But, papa dear, you surely do not think of Morton marrying,'
said Claire anxiously.

And why not., madam, pray ? Younger men have
married before now, even princes and kings, when it was
poetically necessary at twelve and fifteen ; my memory
does not serve me at the moment for names, but let that
pass.'

But have you any fixed ideas upon the subject, papa?'

My dear Claire ! How dense you are ! Did I not tell
you about Morton's providential rescue of Lady Drelin-
court's favourite, and of her impassioned admiration of his
bravery ? She saw him at great disadvantage then ; but I
am going to arrange with — er — one of the principal tailors,
and Morton must now take his place amongst the best

dressed bucks on the Parade. With his manly young
person, and a few touches in deportment that I can give
him, his prospect is sure, I will answer for it.'

Ha — ha — ha — ha — ha — ha !' roared Morton, bursting out
into a fit of uncontrollable laughter. i

Morton !' and the old man turned round fiercely. '

Why, you don't want me to marry that old female Guy
Fawkes, father!'

Morton ! my son ! you grieve and pain me. How dare
you speak like that of a leader of society — a lady of title, sir
of great wealth. Why, her diamonds are magnificent,
will be plain with you. You have only to play your cards
well, and in due course others will be issued — Mr. Morton
Denville and the Countess of Drelincourt.'

Why, father, all the fellows would laugh at me.'

Sir, a man with horses, carriages, servants, a town
mansion and country seat, and a large income can laugh at
the world.'

Oh, yes, of course, father ; but she's fifty or sixty, and
I'm not twenty.'

What has that to do with it, sir ! How often do men
of sixty marry girls of seventeen, eighteen, and nineteen?'


But she paints, and wears false hair.'

'Matters of which every gentleman, sir, would be profoundly
ignorant as regards a lady of title.'

'But, papa dear, surely you are not serious?' said Claire,
who had listened with horror painted in every feature.

I was never more serious in my life, child. Lady Drelin-
court is not young, but she is a most amiable woman, with
no other weakness than a love for play.'

And little beasts of dogs,' said Morton contemptuously.

Of comes, because there is a void in her womanly heart.
That void, my son, you must try and fill.'
Oh, nonsense, father !'

Nonsense ! Morton, are you mad ? Are you going to
throw away a fortune, and a great position in society ? Of
course, I do not say that such an event will follow, but it is
time you began to assert your position. You did well the
other day on the pier.'

Yes,' said Morton with a sneer. ' I fished out a d g.
Now Dick Linnell did something worth '

Silence, sir ! Do not mention his name in my presence,
I beg,' said the old man sternly ; and he left the house.

Well, I tell you what it is, Sis,' said Morton, speaking
from the window, where he had gone to see his father mince
by, ' the old dad hasn't been right since that night. I think
he's going off his head.'

There was no reply, and, turning round, it was to find
that he was alone, for Claire, unable to bear the strain
longer, had glided from the room.

MISS close's hero.

No one would have called Miss Close pretty, 'but there
were traces,' as the Master of the Ceremonies said. She
was thin and middle-aged now, but she had once been a
very charming woman ; and, though the proprietress of the
circulating library at Saltinville, a keen observer would have
said that she was a lady.

Richard Linnell entered her shop on the morning after
the carriage accident, and a curious flush came into her
little thin face. There was a light in her eye that seemed
to make the worn, jaded face pleasant to look upon, and
it seemed as if something of the little faded woman's true
nature was peeping out.

She did not look like the little go-between in scores of
flirtations and intrigues ; but as if the natural love of her
nature had come to the surface, from where it generally lay
latent, and her eyes seemed to say :

Ah, if I could have married, and had a son like that.'

It is the fashion, nowadays, for ladies to attempt a strong-minded
role, and profess to despise the tyrant man ; to take
to college life and professorship ; to cry aloud and shout for
woman's rights and independence ; for votes and the entry
to the school board, vestry, and the Parliamentary bench ;
when all the time Nature says in her gentle but inflexible
way : * FooHsh women ; it was not for these things that
you were made to tread the earth.'

Study! Yes, nothing is too abstruse, nowadays. The
pretty maidens, who used to learn a little French with their
music and drawing, now take to Greek and Latin and the
higher mathematics, but they cannot stitch like their grandmothers.


And,' says a strong-minded lady, ' are they any worse
companions now for men than they were then ?'

Opinions are various, madam.' I used to write that asa
text-hand copy in a nicely-ruled book that I used to blot
with inky fingers. You, madam, who claim your rights,
surely will not deny me mine — to have my own opinion,
which I will dare to give, and say :

Yes ; I think they have not improved. Somehow one
likes softness and sweetness in a woman, and your classic
young ladies are often very sharp and hard.

If you combat my opinion upon the main idea of women's
purpose here, add this to your study — the aspect of a woman
when she is most beautiful.

And when is that ? — in her ball dress ? — in her wedding
costume? — when she first says 'eyes?"

Oh, no ; none of these, but when she is alone with the
child she loves, and that sweet — well, angelic look of satisfied
maternity is on her face, and there is Nature's own
truth stamped indelibly as it has been from the first.

Men never look like that. They never did, and one may
say never will. It is not given to us, madam. Study that
look ; it is more convincing than all the speeches women
ever spoke on woman's rights.'

Just such a look was upon the face of little thin white-faced
Miss Close, as the frank, manly young fellow strode
suddenly into her shop, making her start, change colour,
and set down on the counter something she was holding,
taking it up again directly with trembling hands.

Ah, Miss Close,' he said cheerfully, ' here I am again.
Is it the weather, or are your strings bad ?'

Do they break so, then ?' she said, hurriedly producing a
tin canister, which refused to give up its lid ; and Eichard
had to take it, and wrench it off with his strong fingers,
when a number of oily rings of transparent catgut flew out
on to the glass case.

How clumsy I am,' he said.

No,' she said softly ; ' how strong and manly. How you
have altered these last ten years !'

Well, I suppose so,' he said, smiling down at the little

thin, upturned, admiring face. ' But you'll ruin me in strings
Miss Close.'

I wish you would not pay for them,' she said plaintively.
I get the veriest Woman strings. I send on purpose to a
place in Co vent Garden, London, and they ought to be good.'

And so they are,' he said, taking up half a dozen rings
on his fingers and examining them to see which were the
clearest, smoothest, and most transparent.

But they break so,' she sighed. ' You really must not
pay for these.'

Then I shall not have any,' he said.

She gazed tenderly in his face, and her eyes were very
intent as she watched him. Then, coughing slightly, and
half turning away, she said gently :

And your father — is he quite well ?'

Oh yes, thank you. Very well. Well as a man can be
who has such a great idle, useless son.'

Miss Close shook her little curls at him reproachfully, and
there was something very tender in her way as she cried,
You should not say that.' Then, in a quiet apologetic
manner, she lowered her tone and said :

You can't help being so tall and strong and manly, and
and — and — I'm only an old woman, Mr. Linnell,' she
said, smiling in a deprecating way, * and I've known you
since you were such a boy, so I shall say it — you won't be
vain — so handsome.'

Am I ?' he said, laughing. ' Ah well, handsome is that
handsome does, Miss Close.'

Exactly,' she said, laying her hand upon his arm and
speaking very earnestly, * and I have three — three notes here.'

For me ?' he said, blushing like a woman, and then
frowning at his weakness.

Yes, Mr. Linnell, for you.'

Tear them up, then,' he said sharply. * I don't want
them.'

Miss Close gave vent to a sigh of relief.

Or no,' he said firmly. * They were given to you to
deliver. Give them to me.'

She passed three triangular notes to him half unwillingly,
and he took them, glanced at the handwritings, and then
tore them across without opening them.

No lady worth a second thought would address a manlike
that,' he said sharply. ' Where shall I throw this
stuff?'

Miss Close stooped down and lifted a waste-paper basket
from behind the counter, and he threw the scraps in.

We are old friends, Miss Close,' he said. * Burn them
for me, please, at once. I should not like to be so dishonourable
as to disgrace the writers by letting them be seen.'

People are talking about you so, sir.'

About me ?' he cried.

Yes, Mr. Linnell ; they say you behaved like a hero.'

Absurd!'

When you swam out to the pony carriage and helped to
rescue those — er — ladies.'

My dear Miss Close, would not any fisherman on the
beach have done the same if he had been near? I wish
people would not talk such nonsense.'

People will talk down here, Mr. Linnell. They have so
little else to do.'

More's the pity,' said Eichard pettishly.

And is — is Mrs. Dean quite well again, Mr. Linnell ?'
Oh yes,' he said coolly. * She was more frightened
than hurt.'

Does Miss Dean seem any worse, sir ? Does she look
pale?'

The little woman asked these questions in a hesitating
way, her hands busy the while over various objects on her
counter.

Pale — pale ?' said Eichard, turning over the violin strings
and looking to see which were the most clear. * Eeally, I
did not notice. Miss Close.'

He would not speak so coolly if this affair had ripened
into anything more warm than being on friendly terms,'
thought the little woman, and she seemed to breathe more
freely.

I'm afraid I've been very rude,' continued the young man.
I ought to have asked after them this morning.'

Miss Close gave another sigh of relief.

No one shall see those scraps, Mr. Linnell,' she said
quietly ; and the look of affectionate pride in him seemed to
intensify. ' It is quite right that a young gentleman like
you should have some one to love him, but not in such a v^ay
as that.'

No,' he replied shortly, and the colour came into his
cheeks again, making them tingle, so that he stamped his
foot and snatched up the violin strings again to go on with
his selection. ' There, I shall have these four,' he said,
forcing a smile, * and if they don't turn out well I shall
]patronise your rival. Miss Close.'

My rival !' exclaimed the little woman, turning pale.
Oh, I understand. Yes, of course, Mr. Linnell. Those
four. Let me put them in paper.'

No, no. I'll slip them in this little case,' he said, and
he laid four shillings on the counter.

I'd really much rather you did not pay for them,' she
protested, and very earnestly too.

Then I won't have them,' he said; and, with a sigh. Miss
Close placed the money in her drawer.

I hope you were not one of the party who serenaded a
certain lady on that terrible night of horrors, Mr. Linnell,'
she said, smiling ; and then, noticing quickly the start he
gave, ' Why, fie ! I did not think you thought of such
things.'

Yes ; don't talk about it, I beg,' he exclaimed. * It was
by accident. I did not know I was going there.'

But surely, Mr. Linnell, }'0u don't think Oh !'

She stood gazing at him with her lips apart.

Miss Close,' he said firmly, ' I do not confide to people
what I think. Good-morning.'

No, no: stop,' she said earnestly; and he turned,
wondering at her tone of voice, and agitation.

What do you mean ?' he said.

Only — only — that I have known you so long, Mr. Linnell,
I can't help — humbly, of course — taking a little interest in
you — you made me feel so proud just now — when you tore
up those foolish women's letters — and now '

Well, and now ?' he said sternly.

It troubled me — pray don't be angry with me — it troubled
me — to think — of course it was foolish of me, but I should
not — should not like to see you '

Well, Miss Close, pray speak,' for she had stopped again.

See you make an unworthy choice,' she faltered.

Miss Close, this is too much,' he said, flushing angrily,
and he turned and left the shop, the little thin pale woman
gazing after him wistfully and sighing bitterly as he passed
from her sight.

I'm — I'm very fond of him,' she said as she wiped a few
weak tears from her eyes. ' Such a brave, upright, noble
young fellow, and so gentle one moment, and so full of spirit

VOL. I. 12

the next. Dear, dear, dear, what a thing it is ! He never
wastes money in gambling, and wine and follies. Perhaps
he would though, if he were as rich as the rest of them. And
he ought to be.'

She wiped her eyes again, and as she did so the woman's
entire aspect changed. For just then Miss Cora Dean was
driven by in a hired carriage, her dark eyes flashing, half
veiled as they were by the long fringe of lashes, and then
she was gone.

Ah !' exclaimed Miss Close angrily, ' you are a beauty,
sitting up there as haughty as a duchess, and your wicked
old mother lying back there in her silks and satins and laces,
as if all Saltinville belonged to you, instead of being drowned.
But mind this, my fine madams, I may be only little Miss
Close at the library, but if you work any harm between you
to those I love I'll have you both bundled neck and crop out
of the place, or I'll know the reason why.

A wretch !' she said, after a pause. ' She'd like nothing
better than to tempt him to follow her. But he won't !
No ; he's thinking of that girl Claire, and she is not half
good enough for him. I don't like them and their fine
Avays. I don't like Denville with his mincing, idiotic airs.
How that man can go about as he does with the stain of
that poor old woman's death at his house astounds me.

Well, poor wretch,' she said scornfully, ' it is his trade,
as this miserable go-between business is mine. Perhaps he

has fallen as low as I have ; but I don't live as he does — as
if he had thousands a year, v^hen they are next door to
starving and horribly in debt.

Ah, well, it is to make a good show in his shop,' she
went on, speaking very bitterly — * to dress the window, and
sell his girls, and start his boys.

Nice bargain he has made in selling one. There's something
more about that wretched little empty-headed child
than I know, but I shall find out yet. Surely he does not
think of that boy and Drelincourt. Oh, it would be too
absurd. I've not seen the other brother lately. What a
family ! And for that boy to be taken with — oh, I must
stop it if I can.

Mrs. Burnett ? Yes, I must know about her. There
was a great deal going on with that poor young artist who
went away — and died. There was some mystery about
that, I know, and '

What are you talking about, auntie ? I thought there
was some one in the shop, and came to see if you wanted me.'

'Talking? I talking? Oh, nonsense, my dear. I was
only thinking aloud.'

Well, auntie, it was very loud, for I heard you say you
would have to find out something about Mrs. Burnett.'

You heard me say that ? Nonsense !'

But I did, auntie ; and, do you know, I could tell you
something so funny about her.'

12—2

You could, child?' cried the little woman fiercely.

Yes, and about Mr. Eichard Linnell, too.'

Miss Close caught the girl by the arm, and held her
tightly while she seemed to be gasping for breath.

About May Burnett ? about Eichard Linnell ?'

Yes, auntie, for do you know the other night as I was
going down by the lower cliff to see if Fisherman Dick
had '

Hush !' cried Miss Close, pressing her arm so sharply
that the girl winced. ' Here she is.'

Barclay's tenants.

It was scandalous,' Saltinville said, ' that she should
accept it.'

But she did : a handsome little carriage that came down
from Long Acre, and was sent round to the stables, where
Cora Dean's ponies were put up and kept now on a shorter
allowance of corn.

The note was a simple one, written in a very large hand
that was decidedly shaky. There was a coronet on the top,
and its owner, Lord Carboro', begged Miss Dean's acceptance
of the Utile gift, with his sorrow that he was the cause of
the mishap, and his congratulations that she was not hurt.

This was all very refined and in accordance with etiquette.
The postscript looked crotchety.

Pes. — Tell your people not to give them so much corn.'

Cora did so, and said that she should drive out to show
the people of Saltinville that she was no coward.

Then I'll go with you, Betsy,' said Mrs. Dean, ' to show
'em I ain't, too : and, you mark my words, this '11 be the
making of you in society.'

So Cora took her drives as of old, found that she was
very much noticed by the gentlemen, very little by the
ladies, but waited her time.

The Deans lodged at one of the best houses in the Parade
a large, double-fronted place facing the sea, with spacious
balcony and open hall door, and porch ornamented with
flowers.

The little groom sprang down and ran to the ponies'
heads as his mistress alighted, and after sweeping her rich
dress aside, held out her hand for her mother, who got out
of the carriage slowly, and in what was meant for a very
stately style, her quick beady eyes having shown her that
the windows on either side of the front door were wide
open, while her sharp ears and her nose had already given
her notice that the lodgers were at home — a low buzzing
mellow hum with a wild refrain in high notes, announcing
that old Mr. Linnell was at work with his violoncello to his
son's violin, and a faint penetrating perfume — or smell,
according to taste — suggesting that Colonel Mellersh was
indulging in a cigar.

Mrs. Dean's daughter was quite as quick in detecting
these signs, and, raising her head and half closing her eyes,
she swept gracefully into the house, unconscious of the fact

that Eichard Linnell drew back a little from the window on
one side of the door, and that Colonel Mellersh showed his
teeth as he lay back in his chair beside a small table, on
which was a dealt-out pack of cards.

I should like to poison that old woman,' said the Colonel,
gathering together the cards.

I wish Mr. Barclay had let the first floor to some one
else, Eichard,' said a low pleasant voice from the back of the
room. P-r-r-rm, Pr-wn !

The speaker did not say Pr-r-rm, Pr-um 1 That solid
was produced by an up and down draw of the bow across
the fourth string of the old violoncello he held between his
legs, letting the neck of the instrument with its pegs fall
directly after into the hollow of his arm, as he picked up a
cake of amber-hued transparent rosin from the edge of a
music stand, and began thoughtfully to rub it up and down
the horse-hair of the bow.

The speaker's was a pleasant handsome face of a man
approaching sixty ; but though his hair was very grey, he
was remarkably well preserved. His well-cut rather effeminate
face showed but few lines, and there was just a tinge
of colour in his cheeks, such as good port wine might have
produced : but in this case it was a consequence of a calm,
peaceful, seaside life. He was evidently slight and tall,
but bent, and in his blue eyes there was a dreamy look,
while a curious twitch came over his face from time to time
as if he suffered pain.

It would have been better, father,' said Eichard Linnell,
turning over the leaves of a music-book with his violin bow,
but we can't pick and choose whom one is to sit next in
this world.'

No, no, we can't, my son.'

And I don't think that we ought to trouble ourselves
about our neighbours, so long as they behave themselves
decorously here.'

No, no, my son,' said Linnell, senior, thoughtfully.
There's a deal of wickedness in this world, but I suppose
we mustn't go about throwing stones.'

I'm not going to, father, and I'm sure you wouldn't
throw one at a mad dog.'

Don't you think I would, Dick ?' with a very sweet
smile ; and the eyes brightened and looked pleased. * Well,
perhaps you are right. Poor brute ! Why should I add to
its agony ?'

So long as it didn't bite, eh, father ?'

To be sure, Dick ; so long as it didn't bite. I should
like to run through that adagio again, Dick, but not if you're
tired, my boy, not if you're tired.'

Tired ? No !' cried the young man. ' I could keep on
all day.'

That's right. I'm glad I taught you. There's something
so soul-refreshing in a bit of music, especially when
you are low-spirited.'

Which you never are, now.'

N — no, not often, say not often, say not often. It
makes me a little low-spite though about that woman
and her mother, Dick.'

I don't see why it should.

But it does. Such a noble-looking beautiful creature,
and such a hard, vulgar, worldly mother. Ah, Dick,
beautiful women are to be pitied.'

No, no : to be admired,' said Richard, laughing.

Pitied, my boy, pitied,' said the elder, making curves in
the air with his bow, while the fingers of his left hand —
long, thin, white, delicate fingers — stopped the strings, as if
he were playing the bars of some composition. ' Your plain
women scout their beautiful sisters, and trample upon them,
but it is in ignorance. They don't know the temptations
that assail one who is born to good looks. '

Why, father, this is quite a homily.'

Ah, yes, Dick,' he said, laughing. * I ought to have been
a preacher, I think, I am always prosing. Poor things-poor
things ! A lovely face is often a curse.'

Oh, don't say that.'

But I do say it, Dick. It is a curse to that woman
upstairs. Never marry a beautiful woman, Dick.'

But you did, father.'

The old man started violently and changed colour, but
recovered himself on the instant.

Yes, yes. She was very beautiful. And she died, Dick ;
she died.'

He bent his head over his music, and Eichard crossed
and laid his hand upon his shoulder.

I am sorry I spoke so thoughtlessly.'

Oh, no, my boy ; oh, no. It vas quite right. She was
a very beautiful woman. That miniature does not do her
justice. But — but don't marry a beautiful woman, Dick,'
he continued, gazing wistfully into his son's face. * Now
that adagio. It is a favourite bit of mine.'

Richard Linnell looked as if he would have liked to speak,
and there was a troubled expression on his face as he
thought of Claire Denville's sweet candid eyes ; but he
shrank from any avowal. For how dare he, when she had
given him but little thought, and — well, she was a beautiful
woman, one of those against whom he had been warned.

He looked up and found his father watching him keenly,
when both assumed ignorance of any other matter than the
adagio movement, the sweet notes of which, produced by the
thrilling strings, floated out through the open window, and
up and in that of the drawing-room floor overhead, where on
a luxurious couch Mrs. Dean had thrown herself, while her
daughter was slowly pacing the room with the air of a
tragedy queen.

'Buzz-buzz; boom-boom! Oh, those horrid fiddlers!'
cried Mrs. Dean, bouncing up and crossing to the fireplace,

where she caught up the poker ; but only to have her hand
seized by her daughter, who took the poker away, and replaced
it in the fender.

What are you going to do ?'

What am I going to do ? Why thump on the floor to
make them quiet. Do you suppose I'm going to sit here and
be driven mad with their scraping ! This isn't a playhouse
!'

You will do nothing of the sort, mother.'

Oh, won't I ? Do you think I'm going to pay old
Barclay all that money for these rooms, and not have any
peace ? Pray who are you talking to ?'

To you, mother,' said Cora sternly ; and the stoutly -
built, brazen-looking virago shrank from her daughter's
fierce gaze. ' You must not forget yourself here, among all
these respectable people.'

And pray who's going to ? But I don't know so much
about your respectability. That Colonel, with his queer
looks like the de\41 in " Dr. Faustus," is no better than he
should be.'

The Colonel is a man of the world like the rest,' said
Cora coldly.

Yes, and a nice man of the world, too. And that old
Linnell's living apart from his wife. I know though '

Silence !'

Now look here, Betsy, I won't have you say silence tome

like that. This here isn't the stage, and we aren't
playing parts. Just you speak to me proper, madam.'
Mother, I will not have you speak of Mr. Linnell like that.'

Ho, indeed ! And why not, pray ? Now, look here,
Betsy,' she cried, holding up a warning finger, ' I won't
have no nonsense there. I'm not a fool. I know the
world. I've seen you sighing and looking soft when we've
passed that young fellow downstairs.'

Cora's eyes seemed to burn as she fixedly returned her
mother's look.

Oh, you may stare, madam ; but I can see more than
you think Why, you ought to be ashamed of yourself,
making eyes at a poor, penniless fiddler, when you might '

I — I don't want to quarrel, mother,' cried Cora, * but if
you dare to speak to me again like that I'll not be answerable
for myself.'

There ! — there ! — there ! There's gratitude !'
'Gratitude? Where should I have been but for Mr.

Linnell's bravery, and which of the wretched dressed-up
and titled dandies stirred to save me the other day ? Eichard
Linnell is a brave, true-hearted man, too good to marry an
actress.'

She's mad — she's mad — she's mad ! There's grace ;
and to her mother, too, who's thought of nothing but getting
her on in the world, and brought her forward, so that now
she can live on the best of everything, in the handsomest of

rooms, and keep her carriage. She flies in her poor mother's
face, and wants to get rid of her, I suppose. Oho — oho — oh l*

Mrs. Dean pumped herself down into a gilded chair, and
began to howl very softly.

Don't be a fool, mother,' said Cora, ' I don't want to
quarrel, I tell you, so hold your tongue.'

After the way I've brought her up, too,' howled Mrs.
Dean — softly, so that the sound should not be heard downstairs.


After the way you've brought me up !' cried Cora fiercely.
Yes ; brought me up to be sneered at by every lady I meet
—brought me up so that I hate myself, and long sometimes
to be one of the poor women we see knitting stockings on
the beach.'

Don't be a fool, Cory, my handsome, beautiful gal,*
cried Mrs. Dean, suddenly starting up in her seat, dry-eyed
and forgetful of her grief. ' How can you be so stupid !'

Stupid I' cried Cora bitterly. * Is it stupid to wish
myself a woman that some true-hearted man could love,
instead of looking forward to a life of acting.'

Oh, how you do go on to be sure. I am surprised at
you, Cory. I know what you'd say about the life as them
leads as aren't in the profession, but don't you be a fool,
Betsy. "Your face is your fortune, sir, she said," as the
song says ; working your fingers to the bone won't keep you
out of the works. Don't tell me. I know. I've known

them as has tried it. Let them work as Hies. I Hke a
cutlet and a glass of fine sherry, and some well-made coffee
with a noo-laid egg in it, and it ain't to be got by folks as
works their fingers to the bone.'

And who wants to work their fingers to the bone,
mother?' cried Cora, tearing off and flinging down her handsome
feathered hat. ' In every face I see there's the look —
'' You're only one of the stage-players — a rogue and a
vagabond." I want to lead some life for which I need not
blush.'

As she needn't blush for ! Oh, dear, oh, dear ! When
her father trod the boards and her mother was born on 'em !
What a gal you are, Betsy,' said Mrs. Dean, who professed
high good humour now, and she rocked herself to and fro,
and ]dressed her hands on her knees as she laughed. ' Oh,
I say, Cory, you are a one. You will act the injured fine
lady in private life, my dear. Why, what a silly thing you
are. Look at that hat you've chucked down. Didn't it
cost five guineas?'

Yes, mother, it cost five guineas,' said Cora wearily.

And you can have whatever you like. Oh, I say, my
lovely gal, for you really are, you know, don't get into these
silly fits. It's such stuff. Why, who knows what may
happen ? You may be right up atop of the tree yet, and
how about yon folks as passes you by now ? Why, they'll
all be as civil and friendly as can be. There, there, come

and kiss me, ducky, we mustn't quarrel, must we ? I've got
my eyes open for you, so don't, don't, there's a dear. I
know what these things means — don't go chucking yourself
at that young Linnell's head.'

Let Mr. Linnell alone, mother.'

But I can't, my luv\^y ; I know too well wdiat these
things mean. Why, there was Julia Jennings as was at the
Lane — it was just afore you was born. There was a took
and a couple of lords, and carriages and horses, and livery
wants, and as many jewels and symonds and dresses as
she liked to order ; and if she didn't kick 'em all over and
marry a showman, and lived poor ever after. Now do, my

lu\"vy, be advised by me. I know what the world is, and

Gracious goodness ! there's somebody coming up the
stairs.'

Mrs. Dean threw herself into an attitude meant to be easy,
and Cora smoothed her knitted brows as there was a knock
at the door, and, after a loud ' Come in,' a neat-looking
maid entered.

Mr. Barclay, please, ma'am.'

Show him up, Jane,' said Mrs. Dean sharply ; and then,
as the door closed, ' The old rip's come after his rent. How
precious sharp he is.'

Morning, ladies,' said Barclay. ' I heard you were in.
Glad to see you are no worse for your accident the other
day.'

He glanced at Cora, who bowed rather stiffly, and said
Not at all'

I can't say that, Mr. Barclay. I'm a bit shook ; but, as
I said to my daughter, I wasn't going to show the white
feather, and the ponies go lovely now.'

Well, I'm glad of that.'

And I'm so much obliged to you for helping of me. Do
you know, it was just like a scene in a piece we — er — saw-once
at the Lane.'

Oh, it was nothing ma'am, what I did. Miss Dean,
there, she took off all the honours. No cold, I hope.'

Cora did not answer.

Plucky fellow, young Linnell ; but poor, you know, poor.'

So I've heard,' said Mrs. Dean maliciously. ' I was
thinking of sending him ten guineas.'

Oh, I wouldn't do that, ma'am,' said Barclay.

Oh, well, I must say thanks some other way. Very
kind of you to call. I said to my daughter, " There's Mr.
Barclay come for his rent," but I was wrong.'

Not you, ma'am,' said Barclay, whose eyes were rapidly
taking in the state of the room. * Business is business, you
know,' and he took another glance at the rich furniture and
handsome mirrors of the place.

Oh, it's all right, Mr. Barclay. We're taking the greatest
care of it all, and your rent's all ready for you, and always
will be, of course.'

Yes, yes, I know that, ma'am. I've brought you a Httle
receipt. Saves trouble. Pen and ink not always ready. I
keep to my days. So much pleasant for everybody. Nice
rooms, ain't they ?' he added, turning to Cora.

Yes, Mr. Barclay, the rooms are very nice,' she said
coldly and thoughtfully.

Anything the matter with her ?' said Mr. Barclay, leaning
forward to Mrs. Dean, and taking the money she handed
in exchange for a receipt. * Not in love, is she ?'

Mrs. Dean and her visitor exchanged glances, and smiled
as Cora rose and walked to the window to gaze out at the
sea, merely turning her head to bow distantly when the
landlord rose to leave.

I'm a regular scoundrel, 'pon my soul I am,' said Josiah
Barclay, rubbing his nose with the edge of a memorandum
book ; * but they pay very handsomely, and if I were to
refuse to let a part of a house that I furnish on purpose for
letting, without having the highest moral certificates of
character with the people who want the rooms, I'm afraid I
should never let them at all. Bah ! it's no business of mine.'

He went back to the front door and knocked, to be shown
in directly after to where Colonel Mellersh was sitting back
in his chair, having evidently just thrown down the pack of
cards.

Morning, Shylock,' he said, showing his white teeth.
Want your pound of flesh again ?'

VOL. I. 13

No, thank ye, Colonel ; rather have the ducats. I say,
though, I wish you wouldn't call me Shylock. I'm not one
of the chosen, you know.'

That I'll take oath you're not, Barclay,' said the Colonel,
looking at his visitor with a very amused smile. ' Your
future is thoroughly assured. I'm sorry for you, Barclay, for
I don't think you're the worst scoundrel that ever breathed.'

I say, you know. Colonel, this is too bad, you know.
Come, come, come.'

Oh, I always speak plainly to you, Barclay. Let me
see ; can you let me have a hundred ?'

A hundred. Colonel ?' said the other, looking up sharply;
well, yes, I think I can.'

Ah, well, I don't want it, Barclay. I know you'd be
only too glad to get a good hold of me.'

Wrong, Colonel, wrong,' said Barclay, chuckling as he
glanced at the cards. ' You do me too much good for that.*

Do I ?' said the Colonel, smiling in a peculiarly cynical
way. ' Well, perhaps I do influence your market a little.
There,' he said, taking some notes from his little pocketbook,
and handing them to his visitor, * now we are free
once more.'

Thanks, Colonel, thanks. You're a capital tenant. I
say, by the way, after all these years, I shouldn't like to do
anything to annoy you : I hope you don't mind the actors
upstairs.'

No,' said the Colonel, staring at him.

Because if you did complain, and ^Ye^e not satisfied, I'd
make a change, you know.'

Don't trouble the women for my sake,' said the Colonel
gruffly. * Look here, Barclay, how would you play this
hand ?'

He took up the cards as he spoke, shuffled them with an
easy, graceful movement, the pieces of pasteboard flying
rapidly through his hands, before dealing them lightly out
upon the table, face upwards, and selecting four thirteens.


Now,' he said, ' look here. Your partner holds two
trumps — six, nine ; your adversaries right and left have
knave and ace ; B. on your right leads trumps — what would
you do ?'

Barclay knit his brow and took the Colonel's hand, gazing
from one to the other thoughtfully, and then, without a
word, played the hand, the Colonel selecting those cards
that would be played by the others till the hand was half
through, when Barclay hesitated for a moment, and then
seemed to throw away a trick.

Why did you do that ?' said the Colonel sharply.

Because by losing that I should get the next
two.'

Exactly !' cried the Colonel with his eyes flashing. ' That
endorses my opinion. Barclay, I shan't play against you if

13—2

I can help myself. Money-lending seems to sharpen the wits
wonderfully. What a clever old fox you are !'

One's obliged to be clever now a days, Colonel, if one
wants to get on. Well, I must go. I have to see your
neighbours. Events are very bad to get in.'

I suppose so,' said the Colonel drily. ' Good-morning.'

I wonder what he makes a year by his play,' said Barclay
to himself, as he went back to the front door to knock for
the third time. * I believe he plays square, too, but he hasa
wonderful head, and he's practising night and day. Now
for old Lionel'

He was shown into Mr. Linnell's room the next minute,
to find that he was expected, and that he was gravely and
courteously received, and his rent paid, so that there was
nothing for him to do but say ' Good-morning.' But Josiah
Barclay's conscience was a little uneasy, and in spite of the
fact that his tenant was far from being a rich man, there
was something in his grave refined manner that won his
respect.

Wish you'd come and see us sometimes, Mr. Linnell,
just in a friendly way, you know. Chop and glass o' sherry
with Mrs. Barclay and me ; and you'd join us too, Mr.
Ei chard, eh ?'

Thank you, Mr. Barclay, no,' said Eichard's father ; ' I
never go out. Eichard, my son, here, would, I dare say,
accept your invitation.'

Oh, but can't you too, eh? Look here, you know, you're
a man who loves bits of old china, and I've quite a lot.
Eeally good. Come : when shall it be?'

Don't press me now, Mr. Barclay,' said his tenant
gravely. * Perhaps some other time.'

Then you're offended, Mr. Linnell. You're a bit hipped
because of the other lodgers, you know.'

Mr. Barclay, I have made no complaints,' said the elder
Linnell quietly.

No, you've made no complaints, but you show it in your
way, don't you see. It wasn't for me to be too strict in my
inquiries about people, Mr. Linnell. I'm sorry I offended
you ; but what can I do ?'

Mr. Barclay has a perfect right to do what he pleases
with his own house,' replied the elder Linnell with dignity.

Good-day.'

Now I could buy that man up a hundred times over,'
grumbled Barclay as he walked away, richer by many
pounds than when he started on his journey that morning;

but he always seems to set me down ; to look upon me
with contempt ; and young Eichard is as high and mighty
as can be. Ah, well, wait a bit ! — *' Can you obHge me with
fifty pounds, Mr. Barclay, on my note of hand?" — and then
perhaps they'll be more civil.

Things ain't pleasant though, just now. One house
made notorious by a murder, and me letting a couple of

actresses lodge in another. Well, they pay regular, and I
dare say she'll make a good match somewhere before long ;
but I'm afraid, when the old lady gets to know they're stage
people, there'll be a bit of a breeze.'

DICK CATCHES — SHRIMPS.

There was quite a little crowd at the end of the pier to see
Fisherman Dick and some others busy with boathooks
searching for the fragments of Cora Dean's pony carriage,
and for want of something better to stare at, the fastening
of a rope to first one pair of wheels and then to the other,
and the hauHng ashore, formed thrilling incidents.

Two rich carriage-cloaks were cast ashore by the tide,
miles away, and the rug was found right under the pier,
but there were several articles still missing. Cora's reticule,
containing her purse and cut-glass scent-bottle ; a little
carriage-clock used by Mrs. Dean, who was always very
particular about the lapse of time, and that lady's reticule

and purse.

It was Fisherman Dick's special task to search for them

when the tide was low, and this he did by going to work asa

setter does in a field, quartering the ground and hunting

it all over to and fro.

But Fisherman Dick did his work with a shrinking net,
and one day he took home the little carriage-clock and
showed it to his wife.

Another day he found Mrs. Dean's reticule, and caught a
great many shrimps as well.

Then the tide did not serve for several days, and he had
to wait, shaking his head and telling Mrs. Miggles he was
afraid the sand would have covered everything.

Then give it up,* said Mrs. Miggles, who was trying to
sew with the little girl in her lap, but was prevented by the
tiny thing making dashes at her broad-brimmed silver spectacles,
which it kept taking off and flourishing in one little
plump hand.

Well done, little 'un,' cried the fisherman, grinning. * No,
missus, I don't like being beat.'

He went off, looking very serious, with his net over one
shoulder, the creel over the other, and after going to and fro
patiently waist and often breast deep, he was successful in
finding Cora Dean's reticule, with its purse and cut-glass
bottle ; and that night he went home amply rewarded,
Cora having been very generous, and Mrs. Dean saying
several times over that she wouldn't have believed that
a great rough man like that would have been so
honest.

I declare, Betsy, he's just like a man in a play — the goodman
who finds the treasure and gives it up. Why, he might

have kep' your puss, and my puss too, and nobody been a
bit the wiser.'

That was all that was missing ; but every day for a week,
during the times that the tide was low. Fisherman Dick was
busy, pushing his shrinking-net before him, and stopping
every now and then to raise it, throw out the rubbish, and
transfer the few shrimps he caught to his creel.

It was not a good place for shrinking — it was too deep ;
but he kept on with his laborious task, wading out as far as
ever he could go ; and more than one of his fellow-mermen
grinned at his empty creel.

Why don't you try the shallows, Dick ?' said one of the
blue-jersey fellows, who seemed to be trying to grow a
hump on his back by leaning over the rail at the edge of the
cliff.

'Cause I like to try the deeps,' growled Fisherman Dick.

Ah, you want to make your fortune too quick, my lad ;
that's plain.'

Dick winked, and went home ; and the next day he
winked, and went out shrinking again, and caught very
few, and went home again, put on his dry clothes, and said :

Give us the baby.'

Mrs. Higgles gave him the * baby,' and Dick took her
and nursed her, smiling down at the little thing as she
climbed up his chest, and tangled her little fingers in his
great beard ; while Mrs. Miggles gave the few shrimps a

pick over and a shake up before she consigned the hopping
unfortunates to the boiling bath that should turn them from
blackish grey to red.

What is it, old man ?' said Mrs. Higgles ; ' spirits ?'

Fisherman Dick shook his head, and began to sing gruffly
to the child about a * gallant ' maiden who went to sea in
search of her true * love-er along of a British crew.'

What is it, then — lace ?'

Fisherman Dick shook his head again, and bellowed out
the word ' crew,' the little child looking at him wonderingly,
but not in the least alarmed.

I never did see such an oyster as you are, old man,'
said Mrs. Miggles. * You're the closest chap in the place.'

Ay !' said Fisherman Dick ; and he went on with his song.

He went shrinking off the end of the pier for the delectation
of the mincing crowd of promenaders twice more. Lord
Carboro' saw him ; so did Major Eockley and Sir Harry
Payne. Sir Matthew Bray was too busy dancing attendance
upon Lady Drelincourt to pay any attention.

The Master of the Ceremonies saw him too, as he bowed
to one, smiled upon a second, and took snuff with a third ;
and several times, as he watched the fisherman wading out
there, he followed his movements attentively, and appeared
to be gazing without his mask of artificiality.

The man's calm, dreamy ways seemed to have an
attraction, as if he were wishing that he could change

places with him, and lead so simple and peaceful a life.
And as he watched him, very far out now, Dick raised his
net, emptied it, shook it with his back to the people, and
then began to wade in quite another direction, going back
no more to the ground off the pier.

The Master of the Ceremonies did not look himself that
day, and twice over he found himself on the edge of the pier
gazing out to sea, where everything seemed so peaceful and
still.

There was a buzz of voices going on about him, but he
heard nothing, till all at once a voice, quite familiar to him,
exclaimed sharply :

Well, what is it ?'

Message from Mr. Barclay, sir.'
'Well?'

I took your note, sir, and he'll be glad to see you tomorrow
morning at twelve.'

That will do. Now take the other.'

Stuart Denville could not restrain himself as he heard
those voices just behind, and it was as if some power
had turned him sharply round to see Major Eockley in
conversation with one of the private dragoons of his regiment.


The man had delivered his message to his master, and
then turned stiffly to go, coming face to face with Denville,
whose whole manner changed. He turned deadly pale, of

an unwholesome pallor, and then the blood seemed to flush
to his face and head. His eyes flashed and his lips parted
as if to speak, but the dragoon saluted, turned upon his
heel, and strode away.

Anything the matter, Denville ?' said the Major, who
had seen something of the encounter.

Matter, matter,' said the old man hoarsely, and he now
began to tremble violently. * No — no, — a little faint. You'll
pardon me, — a chair, — a '

The old man would have fallen, but the Major caught his
arm and helped him to a seat, where a crowd of fashionables
surrounded him, and did all they possibly could to
prevent his recovery from his fit by keeping away every
breath of air, • and thrusting at him bottles of salts, vinai-
greater, and scents of every fashionable kind.

What's the matter with the old fellow ?' said the Major,
as he twirled his moustache. ' Could he have known about
the note ? Impossible ; and if he had known, why should
he turn faint ? Bah ! Absurd ! The heat. He's little better
than a shadow, after all.'

A Surreptitious Visitor.

Major Rockley's servant to see you, iniss.'

Claire started from her seat and looked at Footman Isaac
with a troubled expression that was full of shame and dread.

She dropped her eyes on the instant as she thought of
her position.

It was fom^ o'clock, and the promenade on cliff and pier
in full swing. Her father would not be back for two hours,
Morton was away somewhere, and it was so dreadful — so
degrading — to be obliged to see her brother, the prodigal, in
the servants' part of the house.

For herself she would not have cared, but it was lowering
her brother ; and, trying to be calm and firm, she said :

Show him in here, Isaac'

In here, miss ?'
Yes.'

Please ma'am, master said '

Show him in here, Isaac,' said Claire, drawing herself

up with her eyes flashing, and the colour returning to her
cheeks.

The footman backed out quickly, and directly after there
was the clink of spurs, and a heavy tread. Then the door
opened and closed, and Major Eockley's servant, James
Bell, otherwise Fred Denville, strode into the room ; and
Isaac's retreating steps were heard.

Fred !' cried Claire, throwing her arms round his neck,
and kissing the handsome bronzed face again and again.

My darling girl !' he cried, holding her tightly to his
breast, while his face lit up as he returned her caresses.

Oh, Fred !' she said, as she laid her hands then upon
his shoulders and gazed at him at arm's length, ' you've
been drinking.'

One half-pint of ale. That's all: upon my soul,' he said.
I say, I wish it were not wicked to commit murder.'

If he had by some blow paralyzed her he could not have
produced a greater change in her aspect, for her eyes grew
wild and the colour faded out of her cheeks and lips.

Don't look like that,' he said, smiling. * I shan't do it —
at least, not while I'm sober ; but I should like to wring that
supercilious scoundrel's neck. He looks down upon me ina
way that is quite comical.'

Why did you come, dear ?' said Claire sadly. ' Oh, Frecl,
if I could but buy you out, so that you could begin life

No good, my dear little girl,' he said tenderly. * There's
something wrong in my works. I've no stability, and I
should only go wrong again.'

But, if you would try, Fred.'

Try, my pet !' he said fiercely; ' Heaven knows how I
did try, but the drink was too much for me. If we had
been brought up to some honest way of making a living, and
away from this sham, I might have been different, but it
drove me to drink, and I never had any self-command. I'm
best where I am ; obliged to be sober as the Major's servant.'


There was a contemptuous look in his eyes as he said this
last.

And that makes it so much worse,' sighed Claire with a
sad smile. ' If you were only the King's servant — a soldier
I would not so much mind.'

Perhaps it is best as it is,' he said sternly.
Don't say that, Fred dear.'

But I do say it, girl. If I hadbeen brought up differently
Bah ! I didn't come here to grumble about the old man.'

No, no, pray, pray don't. And, Fred dear, you must
not stop. Do you want a little money?'

Yes !' he cried eagerly. ' No ! Curse it all, girl, I wish
you would not tempt me. So you are not glad to see me?'

Indeed, yes, Fred; but you must not stay. If our father
were to return there would be such a scene.'

He will not. He is on the pier, and won't be back these
two hours. Where's Morton ?'

Out, dear.'

Then we are all right. Did you expect me ?'

No, dear. Let me make you some tea.'

No ; stop here. Didn't you expect this ?'
He drew a note from his breast.

That note ? No, dear. Who is it from ?'

Fred Denville looked his sister searchingly in the face,

and its innocent candid expression satisfied him, and he

drew a sigh full of relief.

If it had been May who looked at me like that, I
should have said she was telling me a lie.'

'Oh, Fred!'

Bah ! You know it's true. Little wax-doll imp. But I
believe you, Claire. Fate's playing us strange tricks. I am
James Bell, Major Eockley's servant, and he trusts me with
his commissions. This is a billet-doux — a love-letter — to my
sister, which my master sends, and I am to wait for an
answer.'

Claire drew herself up, and as her brother saw the blood
mantle in her face, and the haughty, angry look in her eyes
as she took the letter and tore it to pieces, he, too, drew
himself up, and there was a proud air in his aspect.

There is no answer to Major Eockley's letter,' she said
coldly. ' How dare he write to me !'

Claire, old girl, I must hug you,' cried the dragoon.

By George ! I feel as if I were not ashamed of the name
of Denville after all. I was going to bully you and tell you
that my superior officer is as big a scoundrel as ever-breathed,
and that if you carried on with him I'd shoot you.
Now, bully me, my pet, and tell your prodigal drunken
dragoon of a brother that he ought to be ashamed of him-r
self for even thinking such a thing. I won't shrink.'

My dear brother,' she said tenderly, as she placed her
hands in his.

My dear sister,' he said softly, as he kissed her little
white hands in turn, * I need not warn and try to teach you,
for I feel that I might come to you for help if I could
learn. There — there. Some day you'll marry some good
fellow.'

She shook her head.

Yes, you will,' he said. * Richard Linnell, perhaps.
Don't let the old man worry you into such a match as
May's.'

I shall never marry,' said Claire, in a low strange voice ;

never.'

Yes, you will,' he said, smiling; 'but what you have to
guard against is not the gallantries of the contemptible

puppies who haunt this place, but some big match that

Ah ! Too late !'

He caught a glimpse of his father's figure passing the

VOL. I. 14

window, and made for the door, but it was only to stand
face to face with the old man, who came in hastily, haggard,
and wild of eye.

Red Denville drew back into the room as his father
staggered in, and then, as the door swung to and fastened
itself, there was a terrible silence, and Claire looked on
speechless for the moment, as she saw her brother draw
himself up, military fashion, while her father's face changed
in a way that was horrible to behold.

He looked ten years older. His eyes started; his jaw
fell, and his hands trembled as he raised them, with the
thick cane hanging from one wrist.

He tried to speak, but the words would not come for a
few moments.

At last his speech seemed to return, and, in a voice full of
rage, hate, and horror combined, he cried furiously :

You here ! — fiend ! — wretch ! — villain !'

Oh, father !' cried Claire, darting to his side.

Hush, Claire ! Let him speak,' said Fred.

Was it not enough that I forbade you the house before ;
but, now— to come — to dare — villain! — wretch! — cold-blooded,
miserable wretch ! You are no son of mine. Out
of my sight ! Curse you ! I curse you with all the bitterness
that '

Father ! father !' cried Claire, in horrified tones, as she
threw herself between them ; but, in his rage, the old man

struck her across the face with his arm, sending her tottering
back.

Oh, this is too much,' cried Fred, dropping his stood
manner. * You cowardly '

Cowardly ! Ha ! ha ! ha ! Cowardly !' screamed the
old man, catching at his stick. ' You say that — you ?'

As Fred strode towards him, the old man struck him
with his cane, a sharp well-directed blow across the left
ear, and, stung to madness by the pain, the tall strongman
caught the frail-looking old beau by the throat and
bore him back into a chair, holding him with one hand while
his other was clenched and raised to strike.

14—2

FATHER AND Daughter.

Strike ! Kill me ! Add parricide to your other crimes,
dog, and set me free of this weary life,' cried the old man
wildly, as he glared in the fierce, distorted face of the sturdy
soldier who held him back.

But it wanted not Claire's hand upon Fred Denville's arm
to stay the blow. The passionate rage fled as swiftly as it
had flashed up, and he tore himself away.

You shouldn't have struck me,' he cried in a voice full of
anguish. * I couldn't master myself. You struck her — the
best and truest girl who ever breathed ; and I'd rather be
what I am — scamp, drunkard, common soldier, and have
struck you down, than you, who gave that poor girl a
cowardly blow. Claire — my girl — God bless you ! I can
come here no more.'

He caught her wildly in his arms, kissed her passionately,
and then literally staggered out of the house, and they saw
him reel by the window.

There was again a terrible silence in that room, where the
old man, looking feeble and strange now, lay back in the
chair where he had been thrown, staring wildly straight
before him as Claire sank upon the carpet, burying her face
in her hands and sobbing to herself.

And this is home ! And this is home !'

She tried to restrain her tears, but they burst forth with
sobs more wild and uncontrolled; and at last they had their
effect upon the old man, whose wild stare passed off, and,
rising painfully in his seat, he glared at the door and
shuddered.

How dare he come !' he muttered. * How dare he touch
her ! How '

He stopped as he turned his eyes upon where Claire
crouched, as if he had suddenly become aware of her
presence, and his face softened into a piteous yearning look
as he stretched out his hands towards her, and then slowly
rose to his feet.

I struck her,' he muttered, ' I struck her. My child —
my darling ! I — I — Claire — Claire '

His voice was very low as he slowly sank upon his knees,
and softly laid one hand upon her dress, raising it to his
lips and kissing it with a curiously strange abasement in his
manner.

Claire did not move nor seem to hear him, and he crept
nearer to her and timidly laid his hand upon her head.

He snatched it; away directly, and knelt there gazing
at her wildly, for she shuddered, shrank from him, and,
starting to her feet, backed towards the door with such a
look of repulsion in her face that the old man clasped his
hands together, and his lips parted as if to cry to her for
mercy.

But no sound left them, and for a full minute they remained
gazing the one at the other. Then, with a heartrending
sob, Claire drew open the door and hurried from the
room.

What shall I do ? What shall I do ?' groaned Denville
as he rose heavily to his feet. * It is too hard to bear.
Better sleep — at once and for ever.'

He sank into his chair with his hands clasped and his
elbows resting upon his knees, and he bent lower and lower,
as if borne down by the weight of his sorrow ; and thus he
remained as the minutes glided by, till, hearing a step at
last, and the jingle of glass, he rose quickly, smoothed his
care-marked face, and thrusting his hand into his breast,
began to pace the room, catching up hat and stick, and
half closing his eyes, as if in deep thought.

It was a good bit of acting, for when Isaac entered with a
tray to lay the dinner cloth, and glanced quickly at his
master, it was to see him calm and apparently buried in
some plan, with not the slightest trace of domestic care upon
his well-masked face.

Mr. Morton at home, Isaac ?' he said, with a slightly-affected
drawl.

No, sir; been out hours.'

Not gone fishing, Isaac ?'

No, sir ; I think Mr. Morton's gone up to the barracks,
sir. Said he should be back to dinner, sir.'

That is right, Isaac. That is right. I think I will go
for a little promenade before dinner myself.'

He's arum un,' muttered the footman as he stood behind
the curtain on one side of the window ; * anyone would
think we were all as happy as the day's long here, when all
the time the place is chock full of horrors, and if I was to
speak '

Isaac did not finish his sentence, but remained watching-the
Master of the Ceremonies with his careful mincing step
till he was out of sight, when the footman turned from the
window to stand tapping the dining-table with his fingertips.


If I was to go, there'd be a regular wreck, and I shouldn't
get a penny of my back wages. If I stay, he may get them
two well married, and then there'd be money in the house.
Better stay. Lor', if people only knew all I could tell 'em
about this house, and the scraping, and putting off bills, and
the troubles with Miss May and the two boys, and '

Isaac drew a long breath and turned rather white.

I feel sometimes as if I ought to make a clean breast of

it, but I don't like to. He isn't such a bad sort, when you
come to know him, but that ugh !'

He shuddered, and began to rattle the knives and forks
upon the table, giving one a rub now and then on his shabby
livery.

It's a puzzler,' he said, stopping short, after breathing
in a glass, and giving it a rub with a cloth. ' Some day, I
suppose, there'll be a difference, and he'll be flush of money.

I suppose he aren't start yet. Suppose I No ; that

wouldn't do. He'll pay all the back, then, and I might '

Isaac shuddered again, and muttered to himself in a very
mysterious way. Then, all at once :

Why, I might cry halves, and make him set me up for
life. Why not ? She was good as gone, and '

He set down the glass, and wiped the dew that had
gathered off his brow, looking whiter than before, for just
then a memory had come into Isaac's mental vision — it
was a horrible recollection of having been tempted to go
and see the execution of a murderer at the county town,
and this man's accomplice was executed a month
later.

Accomplice ' was an ugly word that seemed to force itself
into Isaac's mind, and he shook his head and hurriedly
finished laying the cloth.

Let him pay me my wages, all back arrears,' he said.
Perhaps there is a way of selling a secret without being an

accomplice, but I don't know, and oh, I couldn't do it.

It would kill that poor girl, who's about worried to death
with the dreadful business, without there being anything
else.'

PRESSED FOR MONEY.

As a rule, a tailor is one who will give unlimited credit so
long as his client is a man of society, with expectations, and
the maker of garments can charge his own prices ; but Stuart
Denville, Esq., M.C., of Saltinville, paid a visit to his tailor
to find that gentleman inexorable.

No, Mr. Denville, sir, it ain't to be done. I should be
glad to fit out the young man, as he should be fitted out asa
gentleman, sir ; but there is bounds to everything.'

Exactly, my dear Mr. Ping, but I can assure you that
before long both his and my accounts shall be paid.'

No, sir, can't do it. I'm very busy, too. Why not try
Crowder and Son ?'

My dee — ar Mr. Ping — you'll pardon me ? I ask you
as a man, as an artist in your profession, could I see my son
my heir — a gentleman who I hope some day will make
a brilliant match — a young man who is going at once into
the best of society — could I now, Mr. Ping, see that youth

in a suit of clothes made by Crowder and Son ? Refuse my
appeal, if you please, my dear sir, but — you'll pardon me —
do not add insult to the injury.'

Mr. Ping was mollified, and rubbed his hands softly. This
was flattering : for Crowder and Son, according to his view
of the case, did not deserve to be called tailors — certainly
not gentlemen's tailors ; but he remained firm.

No, Mr. Denville, sir, far be it frown me to wish to insult
you, sir, and I thank you for the amount of custom you've
brought me. You can't say as I'm unfair.'

You'll pardon me, Mr. Ping ; I never did.'

Thank you, sir; but'as I was a saying, you've had clothes
of me, sir, for years, and you haven't paid me, sir, and I
haven't grumbled, seeing as you've introduced me clients,
lout I can't start an account for Mr. Denville, junior, sir,
and I won't.'

The M.C. took snuff, and rested first on one leg and then
on the other ; lastly, he held his head on one side and admired
two or three velvet waistcoat pieces, so as to give Mr.
Ping time to repent. But Mr. Ping did not want time to
repent, and he would not have repented had the M.C. stayed
an hour, and this the latter knew, but dared not resent,
bowing himself out at last gracefully.

Good-morning, Mr. Ping, good-morning. I am sorry you
er — but no matter. Lovely day, is it not ?'

Lovely, sir. Good-morning — poor, penniless, proud,

stuck-np, half-starved old dandy,' muttered the prosperous
tradesman, as he stood m his shirt-sleeves at the door, his
grey hair all brushed forward into a fierce frise, and a yellow
inch tape round his neck like an alderman's chain. ' I
wouldn't trust his boy a sixpence to save his life. Prospects,
indeed. Fashion, indeed. I expect he'll have to 'list.'

The M.C. went smiling and mincing along the parade,
waving his cane jauntily, and passing his snuff-box into the
other hand now and then to raise his hat to some one or
another, till he turned up a side street, when, in the solitude
of the empty way, he uttered a low groan, and his face
changed.

My God !' he muttered. ' How long is this miserable
degradation to last ?'

He looked round sharply, as if in dread lest the emotion
into which he had been betrayed should have been observed,
but there was no one near.

I must try Barclay. I dare not go to Frank Burnett, for
poor May's sake.'

A few minutes later he minced and rolled up to a large,
heavy-looking mansion in a back street, where, beneath a
great dingy portico, a grotesque satyr's head held a heavy
knocker, and grinned at the visitor who made it sound upon
the door.

Hallo, Denville, you here ?' said Mr. Barclay, coming
up from the street. ' Didn't expect to see you. I've got the
key : come in.'

A little bit of business, my dear sir. I thought I'd come
on instead of writing. Thanks — you'll pardon me — a pinch
of snuff — the Prince's own mixture.'

Ah yes.' Snuff, sniff, snuff. * Don't like it though — too
scented for me. Come along.'

He led the way through a large, gloomy hall, well hung
with large pictures and ornamented with pedestals and
busts, up a broad, well-carpeted staircase and into the 
of the house — a room, however, that looked more
like a museum, so crowded was it with pictures, old china,
clocks, statues, and bronzes. Huge vases, tiny Dresden
ornaments, rich carpets, branches and lustres of cut glass
and ormolu, almost jostled each other, while the centre of
the room was filled with lounges, chairs and tables, rich in
buhl and marqueterie.

At a table covered with papers sat plump, pleasant-looking
Mrs. Barclay, in a very rich, stiff brocade silk. Her
appearance was vulgar ; there were too many rings upon
her fat fingers, too much jewellery about her neck and
throat; and her showy cap was a wonder of lace and
ribbons ; but Nature had set its stamp upon her countenance,
and though she was holding her head on one side,
pursing up her lips and frowning as she wrote in the big
ledger-like book open before her, there was no mistaking the
fact that she was a thoroughly good-hearted amiable soul.

Oh, bless us, how you startled me !' she cried, throwing

herself back, for the door had opened quietly, and steps
were hardly heard upon the soft carpet. * Why, it's you,
Mr. Denville, looking as if you were just going to a ball. How
are you ? Not well ? You look amiss. And how's Miss
Claire ? and pretty little Mrs. Mayblossom — Mrs. Burnett ?'

My daughters are well in the extreme, Mrs. Barclay,'
said the M.C., taking the lady's plump extended hand as
she rose, to bend over it, and kiss the fingers with the most
courtly grace. ' And you, my dear madam, you?'

Oh, she's well enough, Denville,' said Barclay, chuckling.
Robust's the word for her.'

For shame, Jo — si — ah !' exclaimed the lady, reddening
furiously. She had only blushed slightly before with pleasure
; and after kicking back her stiff silk dress to make a
profound curtsey. ' You shouldn't say such things. Why,
Mr. Denville, I haven't seen you for ever so long ; and I've
meant to call on Miss Claire, for we always get on so well
together ; but I'm so busy, what with the servants, and the
dusting, and the keeping the books, and the exercise as I'm
obliged to take '

And don't,' said Barclay, placing a chair for the M.C.,
and then sitting down and putting his hands in his pockets.

For shame, Jo — si — ah. I do indeed, Mr. Denville, and
it do make me so hot.'

There, that'll do, old lady. Mr. Denville wants to seeme
on business. Don't you, Denville '?'

Yes — on a trifle of business ; but I know that Mrs.
Barclay is in your confidence. You'll pardon me, Mrs.
Barclay ?'

A looker-on would have imagined that he was about to
dance a minuet with the lady, but he delicately took her
fingers by the very tip and led her back to her seat, into
which she meant to glide gracefully, but plumped down ina
very feather-biddy way, and then blushed and frowned.

Oh, Mr. Denville won't mind me ; and him an old neighbor',
too, as knows how I keep your books and everything.
It isn't as if he was one of your wicked bucks, and bloods,
and macaronies as they calls 'em.'

Now, when you've done talking, woman, perhaps you'll
let Denville speak.'

Jo — si — ah !' exclaimed the lady, reddening, or to speak
more correctly, growing more red, as she raised a large fan,
which hung by a silken cord, and used it furiously.

Now then, Denville, what is it ?' said Barclay, throwing
himself back in his chair, and looking the extreme of
vulgarity beside the visitor's refinement.

You'll pardon me, Mr. Barclay ?' said the M.C., bowing.
Thanks. The fact is, my dear Barclay, the time has
arrived when I must launch my son Morton upon the stream
of the fashionable world.'

Mean to marry him well ?' said Barclay, smiHng.

Exactly. Yes. You'll pardon me.'

He took snuff in a slow, deliberate, and studied mode
that Mrs. Barclay watched attentively, declaring afterwards
that it was as good as a play, while her husband also took
his pinch from his own box, but in a loud, rough, frill-browning
way.

I have high hopes and admirable prospects opening out
before him, my dear Barclay. Fortune seems to have
marked him for her own, and to have begun to smile.'

Fickle jade, sir; fickle jade.'

At times — you'll pardon me. At times. Let us enjoy
her smiles while we can. And now, my dear Barclay, that
I wish to launch him handsomely and well — to add to his
natural advantages the little touches of dress, a cane and
snuff-box, and such trifles — I find, through the absence of
so many fashionable visitors affecting my fees, I am troubled,
inconvenienced for the want of a few guineas, and — er — it is
very ridiculous — er — really I did not know whom to ask, till
it occurred to me that you, my dear sir, would oblige me
with, say, forty or fifty upon my note of hand.'

Couldn't do it, sir. Haven't the money. Couldn't.'

Don't talk such stuff, Jo-si-ah,' exclaimed Mrs. Barclay,
fanning herself sharply, and making a sausage-like curl
wabble to and fro, and her ribbons flutter. * You can if you
like.'

Woman !' he exclaimed furiously.

Oh, I don't mind you saying '' woman," ' retorted the

lady. * Telling such wicked fibs, and to an old neighbour
too. If it had been that nasty, sneering, sickle dandy. Sir
Harry Payne, or that big, pompous, dressed-up Sir Matthew
Bray, you'd have lent them money directly. I'm ashamed
of you.'

Will you allow me to carry on my business in my own
way, madam ?'

Yes, when it's with nobodies ; but I won't sit by and
hear you tel our old neighbour, who wants a bit of help,
that you couldn't do it, and that you haven't the money, when
anybody can see it sticking out in lumps in both of your
breeches' pockets, if they like to look.'

'Pon my soul, woman,' said Barclay, banging his fist
down upon the table, * you're enough to drive a man mad.
Demdlle, that woman will ruin me.'

Mrs. Barclay shut up her fan and sat back in her chair,
and there was a curious kind of palpitating throbbing perceptible
all over her that was almost startling at first till her
face broke up in dimples, and the red lips parted, showing
her white teeth, while her eyes half-closed. For Mrs. Barclay
was laughing heartily.

Ruin him, Mr. Denville, ruin him !' she cried. * Ha, ha,
ha, and me knowing that '

Woman, will you hold your tongue ?' thundered Barclay.
There, don't take any notice of what I said, Denville.
I've been put out this morning and money's scarce.

VOL. I. 15

You owe me sixty now and interest, besides two years*
rent.'

I do — I do, my dear sir ; but really, my dear Barclay, I
intend to repay you every guinea.'

He's going to lend it to you, Mr. Denville,' said Mrs.
Barclay. ' It's only his way. He always tells people he
hasn't any money, and that he has to get it from his friend
in the City.'

Be quiet, woman,' said Barclay, smiling grimly. 'There,
I'll let you have it, Denville. Make a memorandum of it,
my gal. Let's see : how much do you want? Twenty-five
will do, I suppose ?'

My dear friend — you'll pardon me — if you could make it
fifty you would confer a lasting obligation upon me. I have
great hopes, indeed.'

Fifty ? It's a great deal of money, Denville.'

Lend him the fifty, Josiah, and don't make so much fuss
about it,' said the lady, opening the ledger, after drawing
her chair to the table, taking a dip of ink, and writing rapidly
in a round, clear hand. ' Got a stamp ?'

Yes,' said Barclay, taking a large well-worn pocket-book
from his breast, and separating one from quite a quire. ' Fill
it up. Two months after date, Denville ?'

You'll pardon me.'

What's the use of doing a neighbour a good turn,' said
Mrs. Barclay, filing up the slip of blue paper in the most

business-like manner, * and spoiling it by being so tight.

* Six months — after — date — interest — at — five — per —
centum " — there.*

Mrs. Barclay put her quill pen across her mouth, and,
turning the bill stamp over, gave it a couple of vigorous rubs
on the blotting-paper before handing it to her husband, who
ran his eye over it quickly.

Why, you've put five per cent, per annum,' he cried.

Here, fill up another. Five per cent.'

'Stuff!' said Mrs. Barclay stoutly; 'are you going to
charge the poor man sixty per cent. ? I shan't fill up
another. Here, you sign this, Mr. Denville. Give the poor
man his money, Josiah.'

Well,' exclaimed Barclay, taking a cash-box from a
drawer and opening it with a good deal of noise, * if ever
man was cursed with a tyrant for a wife '

It isn't you. There !' cried Mrs. Barclay, taking the bill
which the visitor had duly signed, and placing it in a case
along with some of its kin.

There you are, Denville,' said Barclay, counting out the
money in notes, ' and if you go and tell people what a fool I
am, I shall have to leave the town.'

Not while I live, Mr. Barclay,' said the M.C., taking the
notes carefully, but with an air of indolent carelessness and
grace, as if they were of no account to such a man as he.
Sir, I thank you from my very heart. You have done me

15—2

a most kindly action. Mrs. Barclay, I thank you. My
daughter shall thank you for this. You'll pardon me. My
visit is rather short. But business. Mr. Barclay, good-day.
I shall not forget this. Mrs. Barclay, your humble servant.'
He took the hand she held out by the tips of the fingers, and
bent over it to kiss them with the most delicate of touches ;
but somehow, just then there seemed to be a catch in his
breath, and he pressed his lips firmly on the soft, fat hand.

God bless you !' he said huskily, and he turned and left
the room.

Poor man !' said Mrs. Barclay after a few moments'
pause, as she and her lord listened to the descending steps,
and heard the front door close. * Why, look here, Josiah,
at my hand, if it ain't a tear.'

Tchah ! an old impostor and sham. Wipe it off, woman,
wipe it off. Kissing your hand, too, like that, before my
very face.'

No, Jo — si — ah, I don't believe he's a bad one under all
his sham and fuss. Folks don't know follies' insides. They
say you are about the hard-heartiest old money-lender that
ever breathed, but they don't know you as I do There,
it was very good of you to let him have it, poor old man. I
knew you would.'

I've thrown fifty pounds slap into the gutter.'

No, you haven't, dear ; you've lent it to that poor old
fellow, and you've just pleased me a deal better than if you'd

given me a diamond ring, and that's for it, and more to
come.'

As she spoke she threw one plump arm round the moneylender's
neck, and there was a sound in the room as of a
smack.

A REVELATION.

Oh, May, May ! As if I had not care and pain enough
without this. Surely it cannot be true.'

Hush ! don't make a fuss like that, you silly thing. You'll
have the people hearing you down in the street. How could
I help it ?'

Help it? May, you must have been mad.'

Oh ! no, I wasn't,' said Mrs. Burnett, nestling into a
corner of the couch in her father's drawing-room. * I believe
he was, though, poor fellow,'

She gazed up at her portrait with her pretty girlish face
wrinkling up, and these wrinkles seeming to have had work
to get the better of the dimples in her baby cheeks and chin.

He was dreadfully fond of me, Claire,' she continued,

and I was very fond of him. And then, you see, we were
both so young.'

Claire clasped her hands together and gazed at her sister
with a face full of wonder, she seemed so calm and unconcerned,

as if it were some one else's trouble and not her own

that had brought the tears into her eyes.

But, May, why did not you confide in me ?'

Likely ! You were always scolding and snubbing meas

it was. I don't know what you would have said if you

had known. Besides, I was afraid of you in those days.'

May, you will drive me mad,' said Claire, pacing the room.

Nonsense ; and don't go on running up and down the
room like that. Be sensible, and help me.'

Why have you not told me before ?'

I've been going to tell you heaps of times, but you've
always had something or other to worry about, and I've been
put off.'

Till you knew that detection was inevitable ; and now
you come to me,' cried Claire reproachfully.

Look here, Claire, are you going to talk sensibly, or am
I to go to some lady friend to help me? There's Mrs. Pont-ardent.'


No, no,' cried Claire excitedly. ' You must not take
anyone else into your confidence. Tell me all. But May,
May, is this really true, or is it some miserable invention of
your own ?'

Oh, it's true enough,' said May sharply, as she arranged
her bonnet strings, and bent forward to catch a glimpse of
her great ostrich feather.

Claire looked at her with her face drawn with care and

horror, while she wondered at the indifference of the little
wife, and the easy way in which she was trying to shift the
trouble and responsibility of her weakness and folly upon
her sister.

Why, May, you could not have been seventeen.'

Sixteen and a half,' said May. ' Height ! I begin to
feel quite an old woman now.'

But, Frank ? Do you ever think of the consequences if
he were to know ?*

Why, of course I do, you silly thing. Haven't I lain in
bed and quaked hundreds of times for fear he should ever
find out? How can you talk so? Why do you suppose I
came to you, if it was not that I was afraid of his getting to
know ?'

May, it would drive our father mad if all came out.'

Of course it would. Now you are beginning to wake
up and understand why I have come.'

How could you accept Frank Burnett, and deceive him
so?'

How could I marry him ? What would papa have said
if I had refused ? Don't talk stuff.'

Claire's brow knit more and more, as she realized her
sister's utter want of principle, and her heart seemed rent
by anger, pity, and grief.

Besides, do you suppose I wanted to stop here and pinch
and starve when a rich husband and home were waiting forme

? Poor Louis was dead, and if I'd cried my eyes out
every week and said I'd be a widow for ever and ever, it
would not have brought him to life.'

Claire did not speak. Her words would not come, and
she gazed in utter perplexity, struggling to realize the fact
that the girlish little thing before her could possibly have
been a widow and mother before she became Mrs. Burnett.

When — when did this begin ?' said Claire at last.

Now, don't talk to me like that, Claire, or you'll set me
off crying my eyes blind, and I shall go home red and miserable,
and Frank will find it all out.'

He must be told.'

Told ?' cried May, starting up. * Told ? If he is told,
I'll go right down to the end of the pier and drown myself.
He must never know, and papa must never know. Do you
think I've kept this a secret for more than two years for
them to be told ?'

They will be sure to know.'

Yes, if you tell them. Oh, Claire, Claire, I did think I
could find help in my sister, now that I am in such terrible
trouble.'

I will help you all I can, May,' said Claire sadly; * but
they must know.'

I tell you they must not,' cried May angrily, and speaking
like a spoiled child. ' Frank would kill me, and as for
poor, dear, darling papa, with all his troubles about getting

you married and Morton settled, and Fred turning out so
badly, it would kill him, and then you'd have a nice time of
it, far worse than poor old mummy Teigne being killed.'
Oh, hush. May !' said Claire, with a horrified look.

That moves you, does it, miss ? Well, then, be reasonable.
I don't know what to make of you of late, Claire ;
you seem to be so changed. Ah, you'll find the difference
when you're a married woman.'

Claire gazed down at her, with the trouble and perplexity
seeming to increase, while May Burnett arranged the folds
of her dress, as she once more nestled in the corner of
the old sofa, and seemed as if she were posing herself to be
pitied and helped.

Then she lifted her eyes towards the florid portrait on the
wall, and sighed.

Poor Louis ! How he did flatter me. But he always
did that, and I suppose it was his flattering words made me
love him so. I was very fond of him.'

May,' said Claire excitedly, * when was it you were
married ?'

Oh, it was such fun. It was while I was staying at
Aunt Jerdein's, and taking the music lessons. I went out
as usual, to go to Golden Square for my lesson as aunt
thought, and Louis was waiting for me, and he took me ina
hackney coach with straw at the bottom and mouldy old
cushions, and one of the windows broken. And we went to

such a queer old church somewhere in the city, and were
married — a little old church that smelt as mouldy as the
hackney coach ; and the funny old clergyman took snuff allover
his surface, and he did mumble so.'

And then ?'

Oh, Louis left Saltinville, you know, when I went up to
London, and gave lessons at Aunt Jerdein's, and wee used to
see as much of each other as we could, till he had to go
back to Eome, and there, poor boy, you know he died of
fever.'

Claire did not speak, but stood with her hands clasped
before her, listening to the calm, cool, selfish words that
seemed to come rippling out from the prettily-curved mouth
as if it were one of the simplest and most matter-of-fact
things in the world.

It was a great trouble to me, of course, dear,' May continued
; and she raised herself a little, to spread her handsome
dress, so that it should fall in graceful folds. * I used
to cry my eyes out, and I don't know what I should have
done if it had not been for Anne Brown.'

'Anne Brown? Aunt Jerdein's servant?' said Claire
bitterly. * You trusted her, then, in preference to your own
sister.'

No, I didn't, baby. She found me out. And besides, I
aren't have told you. How you would have scolded me,
you know,' continued May. * Anne was very good to me,

and I went and stayed with her mother when baby was
born, and then Anne left aunt soon after. Aunt thought,
you know, that I'd come down home, and, of course, you
all thought I was still at aunt's. Anne Brown managed
about the letters.'

Go on,' said Claire, who listened as if this were all some
horrible fiction that she was forced to hear.

Then I did come home, and Anne Brown tookxjare of
poor baby with her mother, and it was terribly hard work to
get money to send them, but somehow I did it ; and then
you know about Frank Burnett, how poor dear papa brought
all that on.'

Claire uttered a sigh that was almost a groan, but the
pretty little rosebud of a wife went prattling on, in selfish
ignorance of the agony she was inflicting, dividing her attention
between her dress and the picture of herself that was
smiling down at her from the wall.

I suffered very much all that time, Claire dear, and,
whenever I could, I used to go upstairs, lock myself in my
room, and put on a little widow's cap I had — a very small
one, dear, of white crape — and have a good cry about poor
Louis. It was the only mourning I ever could wear for him,
and it was nearly always locked up in the bottom drawer ;
but I used to carry a bit of black crape in my dress pocket,
and touch that now and then. It was a little strip put
through my wedding ring and tied in a knot. There it is,'

she said, fishing it out of her dress pocket ; ' but the strip of
crape only looks like a bit of black rag now.'

She held out a tiny, plain gold ring for her sister to see,
and it looked so small that it seemed as if it had been used
sometime when a Httle girl had been playing at being married
with some little boy, or at one of the child weddings that
history records.

Poor Louis !' sighed May. ' I was very fond of him.
Then, when I was married again, of course I was able to
send money up every week easily enough till Frank began
to grow so stingy, when I've often had no end of trouble to
get it together. But I always have managed somehow. Oh,
dear me ! This is a wearisome place, this world.'

Claire stood gazing down at her, and May went
on :

• Then all went smoothly enough till that stupid Anne's
mother took a cold or something, and died ; then Anne sent
me word that she was going to be married, and I must fetch
poor baby away.'

The sisters' eyes now met as May continued :

So, as I didn't know anyone else, I went to Mrs. Miggles
out there on the cliff, and told her how I was situated. She
wouldn't help me at first. She said I was to tell you ; but
when I told her I dared not, and promised her I'd pay her
very regularly, she came round, and she went up to London
by the coach and fetched baby, and a great expense it was

to me, for she had to come back inside. Do open the
window, Claire ; this room is stifling.'

Claire slowly crossed the room and threw open the window
and then returned to stand gazing at her sister.

And your little innocent child is there at that fisherman's
hut on the cliff?'

Yes, dear,' said May calmly ; and then, for the first time,
her face lit up, and she showed some trace of feeling as she
exclaimed :

And, oh, Claire dear, she is such a little darling.'
Claire looked at her in a strangely impassive way. It was
as if the story she had heard of her sister's weakness and
deception had stunned her, and, instead of looking at her,
she gazed right away with wistful eyes at the past troubles
culminating in Fred's enlistment, and then that horror, the
very thought of which sent a shudder through her frame.

And now this new trouble had come, one that might prove
a terrible disgrace, while the future looked so black that she
dared not turn her mental gaze in that direction.

Well,' said May, at last, * why don't you speak — though
you need not, if you are only going to scold.'

Why have you come to tell me this now — this disgraceful
story of deceit and shame ?'

Do you wish to send me back broken-hearted, Claire —
crying my eyes out so that Frank is sure to know ?'

I say, why have you come to me. May ?'

Because I am in dreadful trouble at last, and don't know
what to do. I aren't communicate with those people or
go near the cottage, for I'm sure Frank is watching me
and suspecting something.'

You will have to confess everything, May ; he loves you
and will forgive you.'

But he doesn't love me, and he never would forgive me,'
cried May excitedly. * You can't think how we quarrel.
He's a horribly jealous little monster, and I hate him.'

May !'

I don't care : I do. Now, look here, Claire, it's of no
use for you to boggle about it, because you must help me.
If it were to come out it would be social ruin for us all, and
I've had quite enough poverty, thank you. I dare not go and
see the little thing again, and if some one does not take the
Miggleses some money regularly, likely as not they'll turn
disagreeable and begin to talk. I shall bring you money,
of course, and as some one must go and see that my poor
darling is properly cared for, why you must.'

*!?'

Yes, dear, you. The poor little thing shall not be neglected,
I'm determined upon that; and as my situation
prevents me, why it is your duty, Claire.'

Who knows that this is your little girl. May ?' said Claire
coldly.

Nobody.'

Not even the fisherman's wife ?'

Well, I dare say she thinks something ; but those people
never say anything so long as you pay them regularly. But
there, I dare not stay any longer. There's a guinea, Claire ;
it's all I have to-day. Take that to Mrs. Higgles, and see
how the darling is. I must be off. I'll come in tomorrow
and hear.'

May, I cannot — I dare not — try to cloak this shameful
story.'

But you must, I tell you. Now, don't be so silly. Why,
I'd do as much for you.'

I tell you I dare not do this. I must tell papa — or,
there, I'll be your help in this ; I'll come with you, and you
shall confess to Frank.'

Why, he'd kill me. I know it has been a surprise to
you, and you are a bit taken aback, but think about it, and
you will see that it is your duty to help me now. Goodbye,
Claire dear,' she continued, as she kissed her sister.
Nobody knows anything about this but you, and it is our
secret, mind. Good-bye.'

Claire hardly heard the door close as May rustled out of
the room, hot and excited by the confidence she had had to
make, but evidently quite at her ease, as her bright eyes
and smile showed, when she looked up from her carriage
and nodded at her sister.

Claire looked down at her, drawn involuntarily to the

window ; and as the carriage drove off, and she still remained
gazing straight before her, an officer passed and
raised his hat.

Claire had an instinctive feeling that it was Major Cockle,
but she neither looked nor moved, for the face of a tiny
child seemed to be looking up at her, smiling, and asking
her sympathy.

Then she started into life as there was another footstep
on the boulder path, and another hat was raised, and an
eager appealing looked hers, making her shrink hastily away,
with her erst blank face growing agitated as she drew back
trembling and fighting hard to keep down the sobs that rose.

For all that was past now for her. With the secrets
she had held within her breast before, how dared she to
think of his love? Now there was another — a secret so
fraught with future trouble that she hardly dared dwell
upon all that she had heard. It had come upon her that
morning like a thunderclap — this new trouble, known only
to herself and the fisherman's wife. So May had said :
for she had gone to her sister to demand her aid in happy
ignorance of this part of her miserable story being known,
beside much more, to little library-keeping Miss Close.

VOL. I. 16

THE MONEY-LENDER AT HOME.

'Who is it?'

It's that Major Rockley, Jo-si-ah, and he's walking up
and down, switching his riding-whip about, and he'll be
knocking down some of the chine if you don't make haste.'

Let him wait a minute,' said Barclay, finishing a letter.

I do 'ate that man, Jo-si-ah — that I do,' said Mrs. Barclay.

I wish you wouldn't talk so, old lady, when I'm writing.'

I can't help it, Jo-si-ah. That man, whenever I meet
him, makes me begin to boil. So smooth, and polite, and
smiling, and squeeze-your-handy, while all the while he's
laughing at you for being so fat.'

Laughing at me for being so fat ?'

No, no. You know what I mean — laughing at me
myself for being so fat. I 'ate him.'

Well, I don't want you to love him, old lady.*

I should think not, indeed, with his nasty dark eyes and
his long black moustaches. Ugh ! the monster. I 'ate him.'

Handsomest man in Saltinville, my dear.'

Handsome is as handsome does, Jo-si-ah. He's a black-hearted
one, if ever there was one, I know.'

'Now, you don't know anything of the kind, okl

girl.'

Oh, yes, I do, Jo-si-ah. I always feel it whenever he
comes nigh one, and if I had a child of my own, and that
man had come and wanted to marry her, I'd have cut her
up in little pieces and scattered them all about the garden
first.'

Well, then, I suppose I ought to be very, very glad that
we never had any little ones, for, though I should be very
glad to get rid of you '

No, you wouldn't, Jo-si-ah,' said Mrs. Barclay, showing
her white teeth.

Yes, I should, but I shouldn't have liked to see you hung
for murder.'

Don't talk like that, Jo-si-ah. It gives me the shivers.
That word makes me think about old Lady Teigne, and not
being safe in my bed.'

• * Stuff and nonsense T

It isn't stuff and nonsense, Jo-si-ah. I declare, ever
since that dreadful affair, I never see a bolster without
turning cold all down my back ; and I feel as if it wasn't
safe to put my head upon my pillow of a night. There :
he's ringing because you're so long.'

16—2

Then I shall be longer,' growled Barclay, putting a wafer
in his mouth.

How that poor Claire Denville can stop in that house of
a night I don't know.'

Ah, that puts me in mind of something : I wish you
wouldn't be so fond of that Claire Denville.'

Why not ? I must be fond of somebody.'

Be fond of me, then, I'm ugly enough.'

So I am fond of you, Jo-si-ah, and you are not ugly,
and I should like to hear anyone say you were to my face.'

I don't like that Denville lot.'

No more do I, Jo-si-ah, only poor dear Claire. Her
father ain't bad, but she's as good as gold.'

I don't know so much about that,' muttered Barclay.

And now, Jo-si-ah, just you be careful with that Major
Eockley. He owes you a lot now.'

Yes, but I've got him tight enough.'

And if you let him have more you get him tighter. He's
a bold, bad man, always gambling and drinking, and doing
worse.*

Oh, I'm very fond of him, old lady,' said Barclay,
chuckling. * I love him like a son, and — there he is again.
I must go now.'

It was only into the next room, but there were double
doors, and as Barclay entered the Major's countenance did
not look at all handsome, but very black and forbidding.

Come, Barclay,' he cried, with a smile ; ' I thought you
were going to put me off. Here, I've been hard list again.
I'm as poor as Job, and I must have a hundred.'

For answer Barclay shrugged his shoulders, took out a fat
pocket-book, and began to draw out the tuck.

Put that away,' cried the Major impatiently ; and ho
gave the book a flick with his riding-whip, but not without
cutting right across Barclay's fingers, and making a red
mark.

The money-lender did not even wince, but he mentally
made a mark against his client's name, intimating that the
cut would have to be paid for some day or another.

I know all about that. I've had five hundred of you
during the past two months. Never mind that ; the luck
must turn sometime. Cards have been dead against me
lately. That Mellersh has the most extraordinary luck ;
but I shall have him yet, and we'll soon be square again.
Come, I want a hundred.'

When r

Now, man, now.'

Can't be done, Major, really.'

Don't talk nonsense, man. I tell you I must have it.'

Your paper's getting bad, Major. Too much of it in the
market.'

Look here, Barclay ; do you want to insult me ?'

Not I, sir; never thought of such a thing.'

Then what do you mean ?'

I mean ? Only that you've had five hundred pounds of
my money during these last three months.'

For which you hold bills for seven hundred and fifty.'

You put down five hundred pounds now in Bank o£
England notes, Major Rockley, and you shall have the lot""

Then you do mean to insult me, sir ?'
No, Major.'

What do you mean, then ?'

Only that I won't part with another five-pound note till
I get some of that money back.'

Major Eockley's dark brows came down over his eyes ashe
glared at Barclay with a peculiarly vindictive expression,,
while the money-lender thrust his hands deep down into his-drab
breeches' pockets, and whistled softly.

*I shall not forget this, Barclay,' he said slowly, and
turning upon his heels, he walked out of the place beating
his boot viciously with his whip.

Oh, the monster !' cried Mrs. Barclay, entering the
room.

Why, you've been listening.'

Well, didn't you leave the door open on purpose for me
to listen, Jo-si-ah? Oh, what a bad, evil-looking man,
Jo-si-ah. I believe he wouldn't stop at anything to get-money
from you now.'

Black mask and a pair of pistols, on a dark night in a

country road, eh, old lady ? Stand and deliver ; money or
your life, eh?'

Well, you may laugh, Jo-si-ah ; but he looks just the
sort of man who wouldn't stop at anything. I am glad you
wouldn't let him have any money, for I'm sure you'd never
get it back.'

I don't know so much about that, old lady, but whether
or no, I wasn't going to let him have any this morning. He
has been short lately, and no mistake. Some one I know's
making a nice thing out of them at the mess.'

Colonel Mellersh ?'

Mum !'

Oh, there's no one to hear us now. But, I say, Jo-si-ah,
why is he so friendly with Miss Close ?'

Because she sells packs of cards, old girl.'

Ah, but there's something more than that. I went in
there one day, and he had hold of her hand across the
counter ; and I could see, though she turned it off, that she
had been crying.'

Asking her to wed, and let him succeed to the business,'
said Barclay, with a chuckle.

Don't talk nonsense, Jo-si-ah. I wish I had a good,
clear head like you, and was as clever, and then perhaps I
could make this out.'

'What?'

About Miss Close. I'm sure she has seen better days.'

That she has,' said Barclay, chucking. ' She looks
pretty shabby now, a news, gossiping old hag !'

I don't dislike Miss Close,' said Mrs. Barclay thoughtfully.
• There's much worse in Saltinville.'

I dare say,' he said, laughing.

I've only one thing against her.'
'What's that?'

She hates poor Claire Denville like poison.'

Fisherman DICK States.

Major Rockley had counted upon getting a hundred pounds
from Barclay, and the refusal annoyed him to so great an
extent that he determined upon having a sharp walk to
calm himself. So setting off at a good rate towards the
main cliff to reach the downs beyond the town, he had not
gone far before he saw a graceful figure, in a white dress,
with black scarf and plain straw bonnet going in the same
direction.

Clahe Demille as I'm a sinner !' he cried, his pale
cheeks flushing, and a curious light shining in his dark eyes.

Yes, without doubt,' he muttered. * Off for a walk to
the downs. Lucky accident. At last 1'

He checked himself, walking slowly, so as not to overtake
her until she was well out of the town, and thinking
that perhaps it would be as well to keep back until she
tinned, and then meet her face to face.

The jade ! How she has kept me at a distance. Refused

my notes, and coquetted with me to make me more
eager for the pursuit. The old man's lessons have not been
thrown away. I'm to approach in due form, I suppose.
Well, we shall see.'

Claire went straight on, walking pretty quickly, and
without turning her head to right or left. The streets
were left behind ; the row of houses facing the sea
had come to an end ; and she was getting amongst the
fishermen's cottages, while below the cliff the fishing boats
were drawn high up on the shingle, and long, brown filmy
sets spread out to dry, looking like square shadows cast by
invisible sails, and mingled with piles of tarred barrels,
lobster baskets, and brown ropes, bladders and corks.

Every here and there, on the railing at the cliff edge,
hung oilskins to soften in the sunshine, and in one place a
giant appeared to be sitting astride the rail, with nothing to be
seen of him but a huge pair of boots. Farther on fish were
drying in the air, and farther still there came up a filmy
cloud of grey smoke from the shingle, along with a pleasant
smell of Stockholm tar, for Fisherman Dick was busy paying
the bottom of a boat turned upside down below the cliff.

These matters did not interest Major Rockley any more
than the grey gulls that wheeled overhead and descended,
to drop with a querulous cry upon a low spit of shingle
where the sea was retiring fast.

For the fluttering white dress took up all his attention,

and now that they were well beyond the promenaders, he
was about to hasten his steps — too impatient to wait until
she turned — when he uttered an impatient oath, for Claire
suddenly stopped by a cottage where a woman was sitting
knitting a coarse blue garment and nursing a little child.

It was all so sudden that it took the officer by surprise.
The woman jumped up hastily on being spoken to, and
curtseyed, and they went in at once, leaving the Major by the
rails.

Well, I can wait,' he said, smiling and taking out his
cigar-case. * I can study the tarring of boats till her ladyship
appears.'

He slowly chose and lit a cigar, and then, going close ta
the edge of the cliff, leaned upon the rails and gazed down at
Fisherman Dick, who was working away busily, dipping his
brush in a little three-legged iron pot, and carefully spreading
the dark-brown odorous tar.

He was about forty feet below the Major, and for sometime
he went on steadily with his work, but all at once he
stopped short, and turned his face upwards as if he felt that
he was being watched ; and as he did so his straw hat fell
off and he stood fixed by the Major'seyes as if unable to move.

The sensation was mutual, for Major Eockley felt attracted
by the dark, Spanish-looking face, and the keen eyes so
intently fixed upon his.

Confound the fellow ! how he stares,' said the Major, at

last, as he seemed to wrench himself away, and turned his
back.

As he did so, leaning against the rail, Dick Higgles drew
a long breath, stared now at his iron tar-kettle, and carried
it to the fire of old wreck-wood to re-heat it, as he stood by
and thoughtfully scratched his head.

He looked up for a moment, and saw that the Major's
back was towards him, and then bent over his kettle again,
and began pushing half-burned scraps of wood beneath,
making the fire roar and the pitch heat quickly, and he did
not look up again till the Major had walked away, when he
began to brush again at the boat as if relieved, ending by
giving one leg a tremendous slap, and stopping short as if to
think.

The Major had some time to wait, and he passed a good
deal of it walking up and down, as if watching a sail in the
offing, till fortune favoured him; so that as he was approaching
the cottage again, Claire came out quickly, and,
seeing him, started and turned to walk in the other direction,
out on the downs and round by the London Eoad into
the town.

She repented on the instant, and wished that she had
faced him boldly and passed on. But she was excited and
confused by her visit, which had to her a curious suggestion
of wrong-doing in it ; and she was leaving the place, feeling
agitated and guilty, when, seeing the Major, she had turned

sharply to walk on, trembling, and hoping that he had not
seen her. The hope died out on the instant, for she heard
his steps, with the soft cling, clink of the rowels of his spurs ;
but he kept his distance till they were well beyond the
cottages, and then rapidly closed up.

What would he think of her visit there ? What would he
say? were the questions Claire asked herself as she walked
rapidly on to reach the stile that bounded the cornfield she
would have to turn into and cross to get into the London
Eoad ; and all the tune, clink, clink — clink, clink, those
spurs rang on her ears, and came nearer and nearer.

The stile at last ; and, trembling with eagerness, she was
about to cross, when the Major passed her quickly, leaped
over, and turned smilingly to face her with :

Allow me, my dear Miss Den\dlle. We meet at last.'

END OF VOL. I.

BILLING AND SONS, Prints, GUILDFORD.

.^»*^-

5> f

lllliili



','7X''W^;'}

^y,-

.</''t

:;^'V,

%

»'. i

- "*«■>»*» ^

MASTER OF THE CEREMONIES.

Jl novel.

BY

GEORGE MANVILLE Penn,

AUTHOR OF ' DOUBLE CUNNING,' ' THE PARSON O' DU>rFORD,' ETC., ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. IL

Wed AND DOWNEY,
YORK STREET, CO VENT GARDEN.

1886.

^

Contents OF VOL. 11.

Clatter ^ PAGE

I. AN OFFICER AND A GENTLEMAN - - - 1

II. ' IMPOSSIBLE !' - - - - - 11

III. NO BETTER THAN A FIDDLER - - - 16

IV. A LESSON IN PISTOL PRACTICE . - - 23

V. A RETIRED SPOT FOR — A BATHE - - - 39

VI. JAMES r.ELL IS CONFIDENTIAL - - 44

VII. MISS Close IS OVERCOME - - - - 53

VIII. MRS, BARCLAY IS PUZZLED - - - - 61

IX. AN INTERESTED PATRON - - --67

X. AN ELDERLY SUITOR - - - - 73

'^ XI. JAMES BELL'S DECISION - - - - 78

XII. IN SOCIETY - - - - - - 87

XIII. MAJOR Rocky's MISTAKE - - - 107

XIV. AT THE CARD-TABLE . . > 117
XV. MRS. BURNETT'S SEIZURE - - - - 123

XVI. FOR HER sister's SAKE . - 137

XVII. A STAUNCH FRIEND - 142

XVIII. A STORMY SCENE - 153

XIX. PEACE AND SYMPATHY - - - 160

XX. PRIVATE INSTRUCTIONS . - 165

CHAPTER PAGE

XXI. A WALK AND A DRIVE - - - - 173

XXII. LINNELL CHANGES HIS MIND - - - 181

XXIII. AN Exacting GUEST . - - - 186

XXIV. TOO LATE - - - - - - 195

XXV. Sellers IS CONVINCED - - - - 201

XXVI. THE END OF THE RACE - - - - 212

Xxvi RICHARD LINNELL THINKS HE HAS BEEN A FOOL 223

XXVIII. UNDER A THICK CLOAK - - - - 233

XXIX. A LITTLE GOSSIP - 239

XXX. A TERRIBLE RESURRECTION . 243

Xxxi CLAIRE TAKES STEPS : SO DOES MAY - - 250

MASTER OF THE Ceremonies.

CHAPTER I.

AN Office AND A GENTLEMAN.

Claire shrank back for a moment, and her natural womanly
timidity urged her to turn and hurry home by the way she
had come.

But that would be showing Major Eockley that she was
afraid of him, and this she wished to keep a secret in her
own breast.

Bowing slightly, then, she declined the offer of his hand,
stepped over the stile, and went on.

With anyone else Eockley would have felt bound to
retire, but he only laughed. Claire was the daughter of the
poor minister of fashion, who lived by the fees and offerings
he received from new-comers; and he did not feel himself
called upon to treat her as a lady.

VOL. II. 17

Why, my dear Miss Denville,' he said, laughing, ' what
have I done that you should try to cut me like this ? I am
ignorant. Come, shake hands.'

He held his out, as he walked by her side, and she turned
upon him a look full of indignation.

Are you not making a mistake, sir ?' she said coldly.

Mistake ? No. My dear Claire, why do you treat me
like this ? How absurd it is to refuse my letters, and play
coquette when we meet. Here have I been watching for
such an opportunity as this for weeks.'

Claire's eyes flashed at his assumption, but she made no
reply, and walked on.

How can you be so absurd,' he whispered, as he kept
pace with her step for step, * when you know how I love
you?'

Major Eockley !' she cried, stopping short and facing
him, * by what right do you insult me like this ?'

How beautiful she is !' he said in a low tone.

Claire bit her lips, and, divining that he was disposed to
treat her as one in an entirely different rank of life, she
hurried on along the path, with the tall corn waving on
either side, trembling with dread and indignation, as she
realized that he was behaving to her as he might to some
servant-girl.

Say what you like to me. Be angry. Punish me. I
cannot help it,' he whispered. * Your beauty maddens meas

it has done all these weary months, and I must speak to
you now.'

Major Eockley, I am alone and unprotected. I ask you,
as a gentleman, to leave me.'

And as an officer and a gentleman I would leave you,
but my passion masters me. Sweet Claire, whom I love so
dearly, how can you be so cruel and so hard ?'

He tried to take her hand, but she shrank from him and
turned back.

No, no, little one, you are not going to serve me like
that !' he cried, darting before her. * Come, how can you be
so absurd ?' he whispered. ' We are quite alone. No one
can see our meeting, and yet you are trifling with me, and
wasting golden moments. You know I love you.'

Once more. Major Eockley, will you leave me ? You
insult me by staying.'

No, I will not leave you,' he whispered excitedly ; * and
I do not insult you.'

I am alone now, sir, but I have a father — brothers, who
shall call you to account for this !' she cried, with her eyes
full of indignation.

Don't,' he whispered imploringly. ' You make your
eyes flash and your face light up in a way that drives me
frantic. Claire, if you speak to me like that again, I shall
risk being seen, and take you to my heart to cover those
lips with kisses. No, no; don't shrink away; only be

ungentle

with me, and talk sensibly. Let us be closer
friends, dear. Come, let there be an end to all this coy
nonsense. There, we understand one another now. That's
better.'

He seized her hand, and drew it through his arm ; but,
with a display of strength that he had not expected, she
snatched it away, and stood pale with anger and indignation.

She hurried forward the next moment, but he laughingly
kept at her side.

Claire turned and retreated, but he was still there ; and,
choking down her sobs, she walked as fast as she could
towards the stile she had crossed.

It seemed evident to her that the Major must know the
reason for her visit to the fisherman's cottage, or he would
never have dared to treat her with such bold insolence ;
and as she walked on he kept close beside her, pressing
his suit in the most daringly insulting manner, while she
ceased her protests now, and walked on in silence.

It is the only way to deal with her,' he said to himself ;
and, after this outburst to keep up appearances, we shall
be on the best of terms.'

Claire had gone farther in her excitement than she had
thought possible, and it seemed now that she would never
reach the stile. Beyond that, there might be people who
would help her ; and in any case, the fishermen's cottages
were not many hundred yards away.

In spite of her silence, the Major kept on his passionate
addresses and protestations, pleading his inability to obtain
a hearing from her before ; and at last, irritated by her
silence, he caught her by the arm and held it fast.

No, no ; you are not going yet,' he said, speaking angrily.
What sort of a man do you take me for, that you play with
me like this ?'

Major Eockley, will you loose my arm ?'

Claire Denville, will you promise to meet me to-night
where I will name ?'

I am a defenceless woman, sir, and this is an insult — an
outrage. Will you loose my arm ?'

'You are a cruel coquette,' he cried passionately. * Is
this your treatment, after the months of glances you have
given me to lure me on ?'

Will you loose my arm, sir ?'

'Will you be a sensible girl?' he whispered. 'How can
you be so absurd ? Look about you : we are too far off
for anyone to see who we are, and if they could see us, why
should we care ? What is the world to us ? Come, Claire,
my darling.'

He tried to draw her towards him, but she struggled to
get free and reach the stile in the tall hedge that separated
them from the bare downs beyond.

The tears of rage and indignation were in Claire's eyes as
she felt her helplessness, and saw how thoroughly she was

m Cockle's power. There seemed to be nothing she could
do but scream for help, and from that she shrank.

Turning suddenly upon hmi, with her eyes flashing, she
exclaimed :

Major Eockley ! as a gentleman I ask you to cease this
cowardly pursuit.'

Claire Danville, as the woman I adore and have set my
mind to win, I ask you to cease this silly heroic nonsense.
My dear child, is it to make terms ?'

She snatched her hand by an angry movement from his.
grasp, and reached the stile ; but he was too quick for her,
catching her and drawing her back to clasp her in his arms.

You shall not say I wasted my opportunity,' he whispered.
* If I am to be punished by you, it shall be for
something more than words. This kiss is to be the first of

millions that you shall pay me back, and • Curse the

fellow !'

There was a quick step, a hand was laid on the stile, and
Eichard Linnell vaulted over, white with jealous anger.
For, coming along the downs, he had seen Claire cross the
stile, followed by Eockley, and, half mad with rage, he had
gazed at them for a moment or two, and then, feeling that
all was over, and that there was no more love for him in
the world, since the woman he had worshipped could be so
light as to make appointments with the greatest libertine in
the town, he walked straight back for the parade.

It was all plain enough ; there had been an understanding
between Claire and the Major, and hence that serenade.
But for the horrible accident that night Claire would have
come to the window and answered to the musical call.

What a boyish, childish idiot he had been : dreaming always
of a vain, weak, frivolous woman, whom he had in his
blind idolatry endowed with all the beauties and virtues of
her sex.

Well,' he said with a scornful laugh, ' I ought to have
known how artificial she would be. Like father, like
daughter; but it is cruel, cruel work.'

He laughed bitterly.

What an idiot I am !' he cried angrily. ' A boy in such
matters — a child. Well, it is a lesson. I might have
known that she would be as ready to receive attentions
as her sister, and now I may go, and console myself by
making love to the handsome actress who is ready to make
love to me.'

Another actress,' he said aloud, as he strode on with his
jealous anger up to boiling-point, this face flushed, and his
teeth set fast.

Liar !' he exclaimed. * Fool ! Idiot again ! I will not
believe it. Claire Denville is too true and sweet to listen to
a man like that.'

He turned and went back faster than he had come, but
he had walked some distance, and the return journey gave

him time to cool a little and to ask himself whether he was
going to watch — to act the eavesdropper — and whether this
was a manly part to play.

His indecision increased as he approached the down side
of the stile, and he was about to turn and retreat when an
excited voice, speaking loudly, sent a thrill through him,
and running to the opening he leaped over into the cornfield.


At the sight of Linnell, Claire, who had been up to now
strong and heroic, grew feeble and helpless.

Mr. Linnell ! Help !' she cried, as she struggled to reach
him ; and as Eockley, white with fury at the interruption,
loosed his hold, Eichard Linnell was upon him, striking
him a blow full in the chest, which sent him staggering back
to fall amongst the corn.

Linnell would have followed, but he caught sight of Claire
tottering towards the stile, and he turned to help her, but
Eockley had sprung up and, with a hoarse cry of rage,
struck at Linnell with his riding-whip, the plaited whalebone
falling upon his cheek, and making a weal right across
his face.

Major Eockley had better have restrained his rage, for in
^;n instant that blow transformed Eichard Linnell, the calm
and quiet, into a savage.

He turned round with a roar more than a cry, and sprang
upon Eockley ; there was a fierce struggle, ending in the

riding-whip being torn from its owner's grasp, and for the
space of a couple of minutes there was the sound of the
lash cutting through the air, and the blows that fell upon
the tight undress uniform.

No words were uttered, but there was the scuffling of
feet, the hoarse panting of excited men, and the corn was
trampled down.

There,' cried Linnell at last, flinging Eockley from him,
and throwing the whip in his face, * dog and coward ! You
have had the thrashing you deserved. Strike me again if
you dare.'

Major Eockley picked up the whip, and brushed the dust
from his uniform. He strove hard to make his convulsed
face smooth and to force a smile, while he mastered the
desire to writhe and utter impatient cries, so keen was the
agony he felt.

No,' he said, in a low hissing whisper, ' you are a stronger
man than I, and when we meet again it shall be on equal
terms.*

He accompanied his words with a vindictive look that
told Eichard Linnell plainly enough how they would encounter
next.

He repressed a shudder, and then a pang that seemed to
pierce his heart shot through him, for with a malicious smile
Eockley said :

I did not know the lady had made an appointment with

you. Of course, she had to keep up appearances. But
there : I'll say no more.'

He raised his cap mockingly, and went off across the
cornfield, leaving Eichard Linnell stung to the heart, his
brow knit, and his eyes fixed upon Claire, who, white as
ashes, and her face convulsed by the agony within her
breast, crouched where she had sunk upon the lower steps
of the stile.

IMPOSSIBLE 1'

Claire — Miss Delvile,' cried Richard Linnell, mastering
the cruel thoughts suggested by Rockley's words, * how
dared that scoundrel insult you like this !'

Hush I' said Claire agitatedly. ' Don't — pray don't speak
to me. I cannot bear it.'

You are ill. You are faint. Let me help you over these
bars and get you to one of the cottages.'

No ; I shall be better directly. Don't speak to me now.'
She bent down, covered her face with her hands, and the
tears came now in a passionate burst, while he went down
on his knee beside her, laid one hand upon her arm, and,
his doubts and suspicions all driven away by her grief,
tried to whisper words of comfort as he bade her be calm.

Major Rockley had walked with jaunty military stride for
the first two or three hundred yards with assumed calmness ;
then he gave vent to his rage in a torrent of oaths, and
strode on rapidly out of sight, beating the air fiercely with

his whip, and leaving the fields clear of his presence as
Eichard Linnell knelt by the sobbing girl.

Miss Denville — Claire,' he said again, as he now possessed
himself of her hand, while in his anger and remorse at
having doubted her he poised forth his words in quick,
excited tones.

I had not thought to speak to you like this, and at such
a time, but I cannot bear to see you weep — it cuts me to the
heart, for I love you — Claire, dear Claire, I love you dearly
as man can love.'

Oh, hush, hush !' she moaned piteously, weak now with
her emotion and the scene she had gone through,

I must speak now,' he went on. * I have no opportunities
of seeing you and telling you all I feel. Claire I would have
come and asked permission to address you, but I have been
obliged to feel that my presence was not welcome to Mr.
Denville, and you — you have been so cold and distant to me
of late.'

She did not speak, but kept one hand to her bent-down
face, while he held the other tightly clasped in his.

You do not speak,' he whispered. * Claire — you are not
angry? I have suffered so — there, I confess — such jealous
thoughts, such bitter cruel thoughts, though I had no right
no claim upon your love. But now, forgive me— only tell
me— there was nothing between you and that man ?'

She raised her head quickly, and dropped her hand.

You ask me that !' she said proudly.

Forgive me. You would if you knew all. I felt that you
had come to meet him, and I was tortured with these jealous
doubts, but I would not believe, and I came, as you saw.
And now, Claire, one word — my love !'

Her eyes half closed as he drew her towards him ; her
lips trembled, and her colour went and came. Then, as if
her memory, that had been veiled for the moment, tore aside
the film of forgetfulness, she thrust him from her, and, with
a look of anguish in her eyes, started to her feet.

No, no !' she cried with a shiver ; * it is impossible !'

Hush ! don't say that,' he whispered. * Claire, I could
not bear it. I know I am not well-to-do, but I love you.
I cannot offer you a rich home, but I give you a love that is
wholly yours. Don't — don't refuse me — don't make me
think that you despise me.'

No, no, it is not that,' she sobbed wildly. * You must
not speak to me. It is impossible.'

Impossible?' he cried, holding her hands tightly.
Yes, impossible.'

No,' he said with a quiet smile, * it is not impossible.
You will grow to the knowledge by-and-by that there is one
who lives for your sake, whose every thought is yours, and
these little obstacles will melt away when you know me as
I am. Claire, I only ask for a little hope — to go away with
the thought that I have no rival for your love.'

Don't speak to me — don't think of me again !' she cried,
with a wild look in her face. * Heaven bless you, Mr. Linnell !
Think well of me, whatever comes, but all that is over now.'

Over? No, no ; don't say that. Claire — my love !'
He still held her hands in his, and as their eyes met her lips

quivered, and her sweet face was drawn with anguish. It
was a hard fight, but she conquered, and tearing herself
away, she crossed the stile, and he saw her with bent head
hurrying towards her home.

It is impossible — impossible,' he muttered, as he stood
leaning against the stile. ' No ; she may say that a thousand
times, but I shall hold to my faith, and this affair will give
me strength.'

He walked slowly homeward, dreaming for a time of Claire's
anguished face, and then the sight of a uniform brought back
the thought of the Major, and the punishment he had received.

Will he resent it ?' he asked himself.

The answer was awaiting him later on at home, where
he encountered Cora Dean just going out for a drive.

The pony carriage was at the door, and there was nothing
for it but to hand the ladies in, Mrs. Dean receiving the
attention with a most ungracious look, while Cora smiled
.and looked flushed and pleased as she drove off, with Sir
Harry Payne, in Colonel Mellersh's room, watching her with
admiring eyes.

Won't be long, you know. Very kind of you to see me

about it ; as it's his father he Ives with,' said Sir Harry.
Handsome ^Yoman that, Colonel. Precious unfortunate, all
this. I say, how lucky you were at the tables last night.
Very handsome woman that. Ever act now, do you know?'
Every day,' said Colonel Mellersh drily. * Here, I'll ask
Linnell to step in.'

NO BETTER THAN A FIDDLER.

But you can't fight a fellow like that, Rockley,' said Sir
Harry, who had been summoned to his brother-officer's room.
Not fight him? I'll fight him, and kill him.'

But he's only a fiddler.'

Enough of the gentleman for my purpose, I tell you,'
roared Rockley fiercely. * I'll kill him.'

Nonsense, man alive. If you must meet, wing him, or
pink him, or spoil the blackguard's good looks. You can't
kill a man !'

Can't kill a man !' said the Major, in a low hissing voice ;
can't kill a man 1'

I say, Rockley ! Hang it all, don't look the diabolical
like that : you give me the cold shivers. Why, I wouldn't
be called out by you on any consideration.'

Ha-ha-ha !' laughed Rockley, with a ghastly attempt at
mirth. * Did I look queer ?'

Queer ? You looked queer multiplied ten thousand times.

Why, Eockley, one of you with a face like that would scare
a regiment of French cuirassiers. I say, what was the row
about — a woman ?'

Curse her !' cried Eockley, flashing out into uncontrolled
rage again, as he writhed with mental and bodily pain. 'I'll
bring her to her senses for this. Treat me as if I were some
gawky boy, to be held off and coaxed on, and then bidden to
keep my distance !

^Tiat girl was it ?'

Cm'se you ! don't ask questions.'

Bah ! What a fire-eater you are, Eockley. As if I did
not know. So the fairy Glairy has been saying, " How dare
you, sir?" Ha — ha — ha !'

Do you want to quarrel, man ?' said the Major, with an
angry look in his eye.

Not I, old lad ; not with you in that temper. So she
has been riding the high horse, and bidding you keep your
distance ; and, just in the nick of time, she had her dear
friend Dick Linnell there, and the strong-armed fool horse-whipped
you.'

Eockley turned upon him savagely, and gripped him by
the arm so fiercely that Sir Harry Payne involuntarily shrank
away.

'Don't!' cried the Major hoarsely. 'Don't! or I can't
answer for myself.'

Why, Eockley 1'

VOL. II. 18

Don't speak to me. Man, I feel as if that Linnell had
roused a devil in me, and till I see him on the turf helpless
I shall know no rest. Were you ever beaten — cut — and
sealed with your own whip ?'

Well, egad, not to put too fine a point on it, old lad, it
was not with a whip ; it was a walking cane.'

And did it cut deep down into your very soul, and
make you feel as if nothing but blood would heal the
pain ?'

Well, egad, no. It hurt a good deal, but I was obliged
to pocket it all. Lady's husband was a bit put out, you see.
But that's a long time ago. And do you really mean to
fight?'

Might ? If I don't I shall lie in wait for the scoundrel
and shoot him like a dog.'

You couldn't do that, my dear Eockley. Behaviour unworthy
of an officer and a gentleman.'

And as for that woman,' continued Eockley, striding up
and down the room as if he were some savage beast confined
in a cage, * my God ! she shall smart for this !'

My dear Eockley,' said Sir Harry, * you went the wrong
way to work.'

Silence, idiot !' roared the Major fiercely. ' You would,
of course, have won. She would have gone down on her
knees to you. You are so handsome — so irresistible. Oh,
damn it ! No one could withstand you !'

Sneer away, old fellow. I'm not going to boast,' said
Sir Harry with a quiet, self-satisfied smile. ' I'm not the
man to kiss and tell ; but — never mind.'

Go on and settle that at once. No shirking; no excuses,
mind. He shall meet me, and then '

Then — poor des-il !' murmured Sir Harry Payne, as he
sauntered out of the room and away across the parade
ground. ' What a temper he has ! By George ! if he were
little May's husband I'm afraid I should be disposed to
abdicate in favour of some one, who might flirt to his heart's
content for me.

Xow what's to be done ? Shall I tell the Colonel ? No.
Wouldn't do. The matter must go on. He'll be cooler
when they meet, and it will only mean a wing or a leg.
That's all.'

He went jauntily down to the parade, and exchanged
pinches of snuff with old Lord Carboro', who looked after
him and muttered, ' Fashionable fool ! I wonder how much
he owes Barclay. I must see. Close tells me things are
going too far, and I'm not going to have some one's fair
fame smirched through that idiot. A few months in a
debtor's prison would do him good.'

In happy ignorance of the remarks made behind his back,
Sir Harry Pajme went on to the house on the Parade, and
Lord Carboro' trotted off, snuff-box in hand, slightly uneasy
in mind, but at rest compared to what he would have been

18—2

had he known of the encounter that had taken place, and
of Sir Harry Payne's mission.

Eichard Linnell had not returned, so Sir Harry bethought
himself of Colonel Mellersh, found him at home, began chatting
with him concerning cards, and the company staying
in the place, firmly resolved not to give the Colonel a hint
about his mission — and in ten minutes he had told him
all.

Tut — tut — tut !' ejaculated the Colonel. ' I'm very sorry.
About Claire Denville, you say ?'

Egad, Mellersh, what a fellow you are ! You pump a
man dry. Well, yes. Eockley's dead on her. You remember
the serenade ?'

Ah, yes ; that horrible night !'

Well, he's a close fellow, as a rule, about his amours,
but he raves about that girl.'

Had she gone to meet him ?'

I don't know ; suppose so. Then the other lover comes;
and it's tom-cats.'

They came to blows !'

Blows ?' said Sir Harry, bending forward and taking the
Colonel by a button : ' as far as I can make out, Linnell
took his riding-whip from him, and he is lashed from head
to foot.'

And all about that girl of Demdlle's,' said the Colonel,
with a contemptuous look.

Yes. But, my dear boy, you must own that she is
de\'ihshly handsome.'

Oh yes, she's handsome enough. Then the affair is
serious ?'

Serious ?' said Sir Harry, lowering his voice. ' Eockley
swears he'll kill him.'

Colonel Mellersh looked very grave.
They'll have to meet, then ?'

Meet, my dear sir ! Eockley says he'll lie in wait for
him and shoot him like a dog if he doesn't come out. Fancy,
you know, beaten like that before a lady !'

And such a lady as Claire Deny-ille,' said Colonel
Mellersh, with a sneer. * Well,' he added, changing his
manner, * I'm very sorry.'

Yes, so am I. Eockley 's deuced haughty, and bullying,
and overbearing, particularly lately — things seem to have
gone wrong with him — but he's not a bad fellow.'

As men go,' said the Colonel with a sneer.

Exactly — as men go,' replied Sir Harry, whose brains
were not very analytical as regarded double entendre.

Just then Eichard Linnell reached the door, encountered
Cora Dean, and was finally beckoned into Colonel Mellersh's
room.

My dear Linnell,' said the Colonel gravely, as the others
exchanged distant bows, * Sir Harry Payne has called on
behalf of Major Eockley — as his friend.'

He watched Linnell's face intently, but there was only a
slight contraction of the brows.

Bravo !* said the Colonel to himself. ' He's staunch.'

Mellersh,' said Linnell gravely, * I have no friend to
whom I can appeal but you in a case like this.'

I would far rather leave it,' said Colonel Mellersh slowly ;
but perhaps if you leave the affair in my hands, Sir Harry
Payne and I may be able to arrange for a peaceful issue.
Major Cockle may be ready to withdraw or apologize.'

S'death, sir !' cried Sir Harry ; ' apologize for being
worshipped!'

I beg pardon,' said the Colonel. * You see, I am not
properly acquainted with the matter.'

There can be no apology. Colonel Mellersh,' said Linnell,
with a grave dignity that made the Colonel's eyes light up.
I leave myself in your hands, and I shall be most grateful.*

'But '

I need say no more,' said the young man. * Of course, I
know what Sir Harry Payne's visit means, and I am ready
when and where you will.'

He bowed and left the room with all the formality of the
time ; and when, about a quarter of an hour later. Sir Harry
Payne went away, the young officer uttered a contemptuous
sneer.

'Pon my soul,' he muttered, ' it is horribly degrading for
Eockley. The fellow really is no better than a fiddler after all.*

A LESSON IN PISTOL PRACTICE.

The reason for Sir Harry Payne's sneering remark was
patent to Colonel Mellersh as soon as he opened the door,
for from the Linnets' rooms came the sweet harmonies of a
couple of exquisitely-played violins, and for a few minutes the
Colonel seemed to forget the trouble on hand, as he stood
with his face softened, and one delicate hand waving to the
rhythm of the old Italian music.

Poor lad !' he said, as his face changed, and a look of pain
crossed his brow. ' And for her, too. Weak, foolish lad ! He's
infatuated — as we all are at some time or other in our lives.'

He stood in his doorway, thoughtful, and with brow knit.

That chattering pie will spread it all over the town.
Close will get to know, and then — well, we must take care.'

He crossed the hall, tapped lightly on the opposite door,
and then entered.

'Bravo — bravo!' he cried, clapping his delicate white
hands, * Admirable !'

Ah, Mellersh, come and join us,' said the elder Linnell,
raising his glasses on to his forehead. ' Just in time for a trio. '

No, no, not to-day. Impossible. My head is terrible
this morning. Late hours — cards — strong coffee. I came
to ask Dick here if he would be my companion for a six-mile
walk to Stanley Wood.'

The elder Linnell looked from one to the other with a smile.
Oh, I'm sure he will,' he said. ' Eh, Dick?'
Of course, father, of course.'

And out all the morning, too ! Well, well, fresh air for
health.'

Why don't you get more then, Linnell ?'

I — I ?' said the grave, elderly man slowly. ' I don't know.
I don't want fresh air. I'm very well as I am. I shall do
for my time here.'

Why, father,' said Eichard merrily, as he clapped him
on the shoulder, * what a tone to take.'

He exchanged a quick, agonised glance with Mellersh, and
then proceeded to replace his violin and bow in the case.

Come to me, Dick,' said the Colonel ; * I want to goto
my room:' and he went out, busied himself for a few
minutes in his bedroom, and then came out again into the
hall, to find Mrs. Dean disappearing up the staircase, and
Cora giving some orders to her little groom.

He waited till she turned and came towards him with a
scornful look in her eyes.

Well,' he said, in a low voice, and \Yith a longing under-look
in his eyes that he evidently tried to conceal, * how
many poor fellows slain this morning ?'

How many are there here worth slaying ?' she said, in
the same low tone.

A matter of taste,' he said, gravely. * A matter of taste,
Miss Cora Dean.'

Xot one,' she said, giving him her hand in response to
his own held out.

I don't know,' he said, looking very keenly in her eyes,
anger — love — jealousy.'

She snatched her hand away.

Don't fool !' she cried angrily. ' I ? Jealous ?'

Yes, you — jealous,' he said ; and then as she hurried up
the stairs, ' and there would be another emotion to trouble
you, Cora Dean, if you knew all that I know now. Ah,
Dick! Eeady?'

Yes. Who was that, here ?'

Your fair enslaver — Cora Dean !'

Eichard looked up at him keenly and laughed as they left
the house, ignorant of the fact that Cora was watching them
intently, and Mrs. Dean was keeping up a running fire of
consent on what she called her * gal's foolery.'

Mellersh led the way at a good brisk pace along the
parade, and they had not gone far before they became aware
of the tall figure of the Master of the Ceremonies showing

himself, as was his wont, king of the place apparently, and
bowing and acknowledging bows.

Eichard Linnell drew his breath with a slight hiss, but
there was no avoiding the encounter, and as they drew near
and raised their hats, there was a smile and most courteous
bow for Colonel Mellersh, and the most distant of salutes
for this companion.

Old impostor,' said the Colonel, as they took the first
turning and made for the country beyond the Downs.

No,' said Eichard Linnell gravely, ' I don't think him
that. He is a gentleman at heart, fond of his children, and
his ways are forced upon him by his position.'

Fond of his children ! Bah ! As objects of merchandise.
I tell you, Dick, I hate the man.'

And when you hate a man you are unjust.'

Not here. My dear Dick, you look at old Denville
through rose-coloured glasses. Pah ! I detest him, and, by
Jove, sir, I don't acquit him of some knowledge of that
terrible affair at his house.'

Colonel Mellersh !'

My dear boy !'

They walked on in silence for a few minutes, and then,
clear now of the town. Colonel Mellersh exclaimed :

My dear Dick, you have always known my feelings regarding
this unfortunate attachment.'

Yes,' said the young man sadly.

She is very beautiful, but see low she has been brought
up. Look at her sister — a weak, vain, foolish child more
than a married woman, about whom there is bound to be
some scandal soon.'

Can the sister help that ?'

Look at the brother ; that careless young ne'er-do-weel,
who is to be trained up in his father's steps.'

Poverty seems to be their greatest sin,' replied Eichard
quietly.

Then, there is another son, who quarrelled ^^'ith the
father and went off and enlisted. My dear Dick, is such a
family one that you ought to enter ?'

My dear Colonel,' said Eichard with a sad smile, ' I do
not seem Hkely to enter it. You saw the look old Denville
gave me. But, for heaven's sake, don't throw out hints
again about that miller.'

Very well, but you must promise me that there shall bean
end to all this infatuation. I speak as your father's
oldest and dearest friend, and as one who feels as if he had
a share in you — you reckless ^vild young scapegrace.'

I can promise nothing,' said Eichard coldly.

*Xot now that you have been dragged into this serious
affair?'

Miss Dem-ille has dragged me into no serious affair.
Her conduct to me has always been that of a refined and
modest lady.'

My dear boy ! Have you forgotten that this has been
gong on between her and Eockley for months ?'

There is nothing between Major Eockley and Miss
Denville,' said Eichard hoarsely; and his cheeks began to
burn and his eyes to flash.

Dick ! Have you forgotten the serenade that night T

Have I forgotten it !' cried Eichard fiercely.
Well, what does that show ?'

That this scoundrel — this roue — this libertine — dared to
cast his vile eyes on as sweet and pure a girl as ever
breathed. Look here, Colonel Mellersh — no, no — my dear
old friend — I found that dog insulting Miss Denville.'

Where ?'

Away there, beyond the Downs, out past the fishermen's
cottages.'

How came Claire Denville out there alone with one of
the wildest officers at the barracks ?'

Heaven knows,' cried Eichard. * I tell you I found him
grossly insulting her, and I took the dog's whip from him,
and thrashed him till my arm ached.'

And the lady flung herself into your arms, called you
her gallant, her brave preserver, and you embraced and
swore fidelity, while the wicked villain, the dog that you had
thrashed, sneaked off snarling, with this tail between his legs.'

Eichard turned upon him fiercely, but he checked this
anger as he met the Colonel's mocking eyes.

You do not know Claire Female,' he said coldly.

But, Dick, lad, come — there was the embracing and
thanks ?'

Miss Denville is a sweet, true lady,' said Eichard, ' whom
I fear I may never win.'

Never win !' said the Colonel mockingly. ' Dick, Dick,
what a child you are ! I used, a year or two back, to be
glad you were so different to the other men here ; but now
I almost regret that you have not led a faster life. You are
such an innocent boy.'

Shall we turn back ?' said Eichard abruptly.

Turn back, man, no. We have not said a word yet
about your meeting. Don't be angry with me, lad. Believe
me, I am one of your truest friends.'

I know it,' cried Eichard warmly ; * but don't talk of my
love affair. We shall never agree till the scales of prejudice
have dropped from your eyes.'

Till the scales of a boyish folly have dropped from yours,
Dick. Well, we shall be in accord some day. If I'm wrong
I'll humbly ask your pardon.'

And if I'm wrong I will yours,' cried Eichard. ' Now,
then, what of Payne-visit ?'

You will have to meet the Major,' said the Colonel
gravely.

Yes, I suppose so. He could not forgive such an insult
as that.'

You treat it very lightly, Dick. The consequences maybe
very grave.'

I hope not,' said Eichard. * I am not a soldier, but I
am not going to show the white feather, even if I wear it in
my heart.'

Not you,' said the Colonel, as he tapped his companion
on the shoulder. ' But I should have liked you to be fighting
on account of some other lady.'

x\nd I should not,' cried Eichard. * Is this likely to be
serious ?'

I should be no true friend to you, my lad, if I concealed
the truth from you. It may be very serious.'

For me ?'

I don't say that.'

But I never fired a pistol in my life, and I fence horribly.'

It will be pistols, Dick. I arranged that it should be.
But you will be cool ?'

I hope I shall be just as I am now,' said Eichard calmly.
The Colonel looked at him intently, but no nerve showed

a tremor.

A good walk will do you good,' he said, and after telling
him the preliminaries, and the place where they were to
meet, the conversation was changed and they walked slowly
on till the edge of the Downs was reached, and they soon
after entered an extensive wood, walking down a leafy glade
where all seemed wonderfully peaceful, and its solemnity

was so soothing to Billiard Linnell that he was about to
throw himself upon the turf when Colonel Mellersh stopped
short, and pointing to a gnarled beech of stunted growth,
exclaimed :

That will do exactly.'

Do ?' said Linnell. * Do for what ?'

Why, my dear boy, do you suppose I have brought you
out here for nothing ? No ; since the abominable code for
furbishing up injured honour exists, and a man may be
called out, it is our duty to prepare for emergencies. You
cannot use a pistol ?'

No,' said Eichard, shaking his head.

I can. I have been out six times, and I'm going to show
you how to hit your man and save yourself.'

I don't want to hit Major Eockley.'

But I want you to hit him and save yourself. My dear
boy, you are worth five thousand Major Cockles to your
father, and we must not have you hurt.'

As he spoke, to Eichard's great surprise, he took out
a brace of duelling pistols with flask and bullets, and
after loading skilfully he took a few cards from his breast,
and going to the stunted tree, tacked one on each of two
boughs about on a level with a man's outstretched arms,
another on the trunk, and another higher still, where the
head would be.

I used to practise with the pistol a great deal at one

time, Dick, and I could hit either of those address cards as
many times as I Heed.'

Then I will not quarrel with you and call you out.'

Don't,' said the Colonel, handing him a pistol, and proceeding
to step out fifteen paces. * There,' he said, ' stand
there and aim at that card on the trunk. That is where a
man's heart would be. I will count slowly, and when I
come to three, raise your pistol quickly and fire.'

One — two — three !'

Eichard Linnell raised his pistol, and drew the trigger,
but there was no report.

It will not go off,' he said.

No,' replied the Colonel ; ' pistols never will, unless you
cock them.'

Pish !' ejaculated Eichard, repairing the omission. 'Again.'
The Colonel counted once more ; there was a flash, a

sharp report, and a leaf or two fell from high up a tree to

the right of the target.

Take the other,' said the Colonel quietly ; * hold it a
little more firmly, and raise it slowly. The moment your
eye glances straight along the barrel, press the trigger softly,
so atS not to jerk the pistol. Eeady? Now — one — two —
three !'

There was another sharp report, and the Colonel
smiled.

That's better,' he said. ' Your first bullet went over the

enemy's head twenty feet or so. That one would have hmi
in the shoulder. Thy agahi.'

The Colonel busied himself loading the pistols \Yith all the
quickness of an adept as his pupil fired, keeping hhii at it
for quite a couple of hours, with intervals of rest. Now ho
made him fire at one card, then at another, practising as a!:
his adversary's arms, head, and body, till Richard looked at:
him wearily.

Yes ; that will do now,' said Colonel Mellersh. ' You
may congratulate yourself, Dick, upon being a horribly bad
shot ; but you will be able to handle your pistol properly,
and raise it like a man who is used to the weapon.'

'What is the use of that,' said Richard, smiling, 'if I
cannot aim straight ?'

A great deal. If you had taken hold of your pistol in a
bungling way tomorrow, Rockley would have felt that he
had you at this mercy, and he would have been as cool as a
fish. Xow he will see that you know what a pistol is,
and be perfectly ignorant of the fact that you are unskilful
of aim. He will think he has a dangerous adversary before
him, and be more likely nervous than cool.'

*I see,' said Richard, with his eyes lighting up. 'I've
had my turn at the scoundrel, and I'm satisfied. Of course
I don't want to hit him, but at the same time I don't want
him to hit me.'

Oh !' said the Colonel drily, * I thought you did,'

VOL. II. 19

What ! want him to hit me ! Why ?'

You seemed so cool over it.'

Oh, but I'm not,' said Eichard gravely. ' I suppose a
good shot would hit one of those cards ?'

Time was, Dick, when I could have put half a dozen
shots in either of them. I don't know that I could hit one now. '

He raised the pistol he had been loading as he spoke, took
a quick aim, and hit the centre card just on the edge, driving
it into the bark of the tree.

Bad !' he said. * Let's try another.'

He aimed at the card representing the enemy's right arm.
fired, and struck it also about a quarter of an inch from the
edge.

Out of practice, Dick,' he said, thrusting the pistols into
their dark cloth bags, and replacing them in his pocket.
There, my lad, let's get home. Dine lightly this evening,
go to bed in good time, and have a long night's rest.'

When is the meeting?' said Richard calmly.

At six tomorrow morning,'

Where did you say ?'

On the sands, two miles out below the east cliff.'
'Why there?'

We shall want an excuse for going out so early, my lad.
We can be going to bathe, and so be unnoticed, and there
will be no fear of an interruption,' said the Colonel grimly.
'This is to be no play affair, Dick. An officer in His

Majesty's service cannot submit to a horse whipping from a
ci^ihan without trying to get ample satisfaction.'

He looked at Eichard with a grave air of pity in his
countenance.

Did you ever shoot a man ?' said Richard, as they were
walking briskly back.

Do you mean wounded or killed ?'

The latter.'

Once, Dick.'

The young man's countenance contracted, and he looked
at his companion almost in horror.

'Yes,' said the Colonel; 'it is horrible, Dick, and the
remembrance that the man was an utter scoundrel does
not make the fact much less horrible after all these
years.'

They walked on for some distance in silence, before
Richard Linnell broke in upon his companion's reverie.

Was the duel about — a lady ?'

The Colonel uttered a harsh laugh.

It's an arrangement of nature, my dear Ulysses,' he said.
If you see a couple of stags smashing their antlers, a couple
of bulls goring each other, or two rams battering one another's
heads, a brace of pheasants or barn-door cocks pecking and
spm-ring each other to death, what's it about ? A lady. The
same with mankind, Dick ; a duel is almost invariably more
or less directly about a lady.'

19—2

Richard Linnell went on thoughtfully for a time, and then
turned with a sad smile to the Colonel.

So even you had to do battle once in such a cause ?'

Not exactly, Dick ; it was upon another's behalf. An
utter scoundrel, just such a fellow as Rockley, did my best
friend a mortal Wrong. One day, Dick, it was a happy,
peaceful home that I used to visit, where as sweet-natured,
true, and gentle a man as ever breathed lived in happy trust
and faith in his sweet young wife ; the next there was a
stain — an indelible stain — upon that hearth-stone, and my
poor friend lay stricken down by the shock, and nearly died
of the brain fever that ensued.'

Richard Linnell looked at him with a curious feeling of
horror — he knew not why — troubling his breast.

Do you want to know any more ?' said the Colonel
roughly.

Yes ; go on.'

I did not see either of them for two years : the young
wife or the scoundrel I had introduced to the house as my
friend. Then I had a letter from the lady — a piteous, appealing
letter to me to help her. She told me she was
starving in London, Dick, and that the villain who had won
her into leaving her home had forsaken her at the end of six
months, and that, since then, she had been striving to get a
King by teaching, but that now she was prostrate on a sickbed,
helpless and alone.'

There was a few moments' pause, and then the Colonel
went on :

I went to see her, Dick — poor, little, weak
woman. Her good looks were gone, and she lay sick
unto death for want of medical help and ordinary nutriment.'


The Colonel stopped again, for his mouth seemed dry, and
he passed his tongue over his fevered lips before he went
on.

I did what was necessary, and went straight to the-man
who had done all this wrong. I told him everything, and
that it was his duty to make some reparation at least by
providing for the lady's needs, and ensuring that she should
not want in the future.'

Well ?' said Eichard hoarsely.

He laughed at me. He refused so utterly that I lost my
temper and called him villain and scoundrel. He retorted
by insulting me with a vile charge as to the cause of my
taking an interest in that poor woman, and he struck me,
and then '

Well,' said Eichard, * and then ?'

I worshipped him, Dick, as you worshipped that
man.'

And he challenged you, and you fought, and '

Yes, heaven forgive me,' said Mellersh in a low voice, ' I
shot him dead !'

You did this for the woman you did not love,' said Eichard
Linnell, as if speaking to himself.

Yes, for the woman I did not love.'

What I did was for the woman I love with all my
heart.

A Retired SPOT FOR — A BATHE.

It was a cold gi'ey horning as Colonel Mellersh and Richard
Linnell %Yent out on to the parade, quite unaware that a pair
of dark eyes were watching from behind an upper blind ;
but the fact that each man carried a towel in this hand disarmed
suspicion, and the owner of the eyes went back to the
couch in her room as the gentlemen passed out of sight.

I was afraid,' she said to herself softly. ' Perhaps there
was no truth in it after all.'

Meanwhile, the Colonel and Eichard Linnell went briskly
on past the pier, with no one yet astir upon the parade ; but
farther on there were boats putting out to sea, and fishermen
canning oars and baskets down to those lying on the
shingle.

As they went on along the cliff, Fisherman Dick was down
by his uptm-ned boat, trying the pitch, to find out whether
it was hardened, and hearing the voices, he looked up and
saw the two men pass.

Master Richard Linnell — the Colonel,' he said to himself.
Bathing, eh ? Well, it's lonesome enough out there.'

The mist hung over the sea, and the waves came in with
a mournful sound upon the shore, the pebbles rattling
together as they were driven up and rolled back with the
retiring waters, sounding in the distance as if they were
whispering together about the meeting that was about to
take place a mile or so onward, beyond the chalk bluff,,
where the land trended inward, and formed a little bay.

Fisherman Dick found the bottom of his boat rather sticky,,
but he did not seem to be thinking about it, but to be putting
that and that together.

Master Richard Linnell give that Major Rockley an out
and out good wetting yonder in the cornfield, and if he'd been
with him instead of that tother one, I should say there was
going to be a fight with pistols; but I suppose it means a bit
of a swim, and '

Dick Miggles bent down over his boat, and seemed to be
paying not the least heed, for just then he saw four people
coming down the cliff path on to the beach, and as they
passed he saw that they were Rockley, Sir Harry Payne, a
gentleman he did not know, and the Major's dragoon
servant, James Bell, carrying something under his military
cloak.

'It's a fight,' said Dick Miggles, as they passed him,
picking their way down over the shingle to the firmer

ground, close to the water's edge, where there were long
stretches of sand, and it was better walking.

Now, what shall I do ?' said Fisherman Dick ; ' go and
tell the constables ? They'd be abed, and it would take mean
hour to get back with them, and the mischief would be
done before then. Anyhow, I'll go and see what's going
on.'

By this time Mellersh and Linnell had passed out of sight
along the shore, and the second party were a hundred yards
away.

Fisherman Dick did not hesitate, but, going back up the
cliff path, he reached the top, and walked s\^dftly along eastward
for some distance. Then, throwing himself down, he
crawled flat on the ground, taking off his hat and leaving it
behind him.

In a few seconds he was at the edge of the cliff, where
the soft shore turf ended, and the chalk was broken away,
going sheer down perpendicularly to the shingle beach and
rough rock debris that had fallen from time to time after
undermining by the sea. As he expected, the two little
parties were below.

They're going to fight, sure enough,' muttered the fisherman.
'I may as well go and see fair. There'll they do it?*

He lay still for a few moments thinking.

Why, they'll make for the sand patch in Jollity's Cove,*
he said aloud. ' Don't know much about it, or they'd have

took the path and the short cut and gone do\STi the chalk
steps.'

He smiled as some thought occurred to hin, and, drawing
back from the edge of the cliff, he crawled back to where
the beaten path showed faintly, and where at intervals the
turf had been cut away down to the chalk, and a white
patch made, as a guide for travellers in the dark, lest they
should stray from the slight sheep-track and go over the
cliff to certain death.

Along this path Fisherman Dick ran at a brisk trot for
quite a mile, while the cliff rose slightly into a bold bluff,
but the fisherman did not climb this, but plunged down
suddenly behind a clump of furze into a ravine where a
slight path showed that there was a way to the shore.

He went down this a few yards, and then tm-ned, took
two great strides, climbed up the face of the ravine a little
way, stepped behind a huge mass of chalk, went in and out
among some debris from the cliff, and then stepped into
what looked like a rain gully which led to an opening in the
rock, forming a rough half hole, half cavern, ^vith the light
coming from the side through a large irregular opening,
partly natural, partly reduced by the arrangement of blocks
of chalk, so that there was plenty of room for a dozen men
to be in shelter, and where, unseen, they had full dew of the
open sea for miles on either side, and of the smooth patch
of sand in the little cove, fifty feet or so below.

There, as long as they don't shute up this way,' said the
fisherman, * I shall be all right and can see them all. I
hope young Linnell won't be hurt. Don't suppose he will,
for pistols is mortal stupid tools to work with.'

Linnell and Mellersh came into sight soon after, and
paused on reaching the sandy cove, a place admirably suited
for the purpose in hand, for though from the rough look-out
above, the shore could be commanded for some distance
either way, those who occupied the sandy patch were hidden
from either east or west.

I'd have given something to have prevented this, Dick,'
said Mellersh huskily ; * but you were bound to meet him.'

Yes,' said Eichard gravely. ' It was unavoidable. Hush !
don't talk to me. I'm firm now, and ' — he smiled as he
spoke — ' I want to do you justice.'

Well,' said Sir Harry Payne, in a low voice, as the
second party came upon the ground, * how do you feel
now, Rockley ? What do you mean to do ?'

To the man who struck me, and came between me and
Claire Dem-ille ?'

Yes.'

I shall shoot him like a dog.'

JAMES BELL IS Confidential.

Sir Haeey Payne looked at the stony face before him, and
read fierce, implacable determination written plainly there.
He felt that his companion was a soldier who would face
death without a moment's hesitation, and that there was
not a tremor in any pulse.

He had but little time for thought, for there were salutations
to make, everything being carried out in the most
cold-blooded style ; after which Sir Harry took an oblong
box from the Major's servant.

You can go now,' he said.

Not stay with my master, sir ?'

I said go, fellow,' cried Sir Harry sharply ; and, in spite
of his jaunty manner, he looked cold and pale.

Back, Sir Harry ?'

'No — anywhere. There, up the cliff. Be within
call.'

The man saluted, turned on his heel, and, walking to

where a roughly-cut path of steps led up the cliff into the
little ravine, began to mount as quickly as he could.

About half-way up he turned, saw that he was out of
sight, and then, following Fisherman Dick's steps as if he
were familiar with the way, climbed right into the rough
cavern, and came suddenly upon the man, who started round
in surprise.

Hullo !' he growled. * What are you doing here ?'

Same to you,' said the young dragoon, in a low voice.

What are you going to do ?'

See the fight, if you must know,' said Fisherman Dick.

Like my place, perhaps.'

Yes,' said the young soldier quickly, 'I should;' and,
stepping forward, he looked down cautiously on the group
below.

Why, it's Fred Demille, siwebj,' cried Fisherman Dick.

Hush, man !' said the young soldier, catching him by
the arm ; * James Bell now. Not a word to a soul about me.'

What, not to your young brother. Master Fred ?'

Hist ! I'm only a common soldier now, Dick. You
won't betray me, I know.'

Not I, lad. Roost me.'

I will, Dick, with my name, and '

He placed his lips close to the fisherman's ear, and
whispered.

Fisherman Dick brought a broad hand down softly on his

knee, and laughed a silent laugh. But the next moment he
turned preternaturally solemn, and whispered :

It wouldn't be fair

'Fair!' whispered back Fred: 'is it fair for that poor
fellow to stand and be shot down by a man who can snuff
a candle at a dozen paces ? I've seen him do it.'

I've done, my lad, and you're safe with me. I'm close
as you used to know.'

Meanwhile the preparations had been going on below,
and were so far advanced that the preliminaries had been
all settled, the pistols charged, the ground stepped out, and
the men were standing back to back, twelve paces apart.

Eockley was deadly pale, but not with the pallor of fear,
as he stood exactly below the hollow where the two men
were looking down. There was a savage look of rage in his
eyes, and his lip was white where he pressed his teeth upon
it firmly, longing the while to receive the weapon that was
to be the minister of his vengeance upon the man he hated
with an intense and ardent hate.

The doctor had drawn aside, walking down towards the
sea, and the two seconds were together, every step in the
progress of the drama being taken with a cold formality that
was awful.

At last the seconds parted, each bearing one of the loaded
weapons, and walking firmly towards his principal.

Here you are, Bockley,' said Sir Harry, in a voice that

was husky, and not quite firm. ' You'll wing him, won't
you, or give him a ball through one of his legs ?'

If I can shoot straight,' said Eockley coldly — * and my
arm is pretty firm this morning — there shall be a funeral in
Saltin\ille next Sunday.'

Xo, no. Gad, man, don't do that. Think of yourself
if you killed him.'

I could get over it,' was the reply. ' The Prince would
help me ; and if he wouldn't — curse that Linnell, I'd sacrifice
anything to pay him back Iris debt.'

Yes, you're firm enough, Dick. Mind : as Payne gives
the word, raise your pistol and fire at once. You will not
list him, but the quick flash will spoil this aim. I will not
consent to another shot. If he wants another it shall be at
me. Now then; you understand ?'

Yes,' said Linnell firmly, ' I understand, Mellersh. I
shall not fire at him. If I fall — badly hit — tell Claire Den-ville
I sent her my dear love.'

Be firm, man. You will not fall,' said the Colonel,
pressing his hand. Then, glancing at Sir Harry Payne,
who was waiting, he walked away towards a certain prearranged
point, where he and Sir Harry stood together in
the gi-ey morning light ; while, back to back, there were the
principals, each grasping his heavy duelling pistol, with the
chalk cUff towering above, and, fifty yards away, the
waves uttering their low, whispering sound.

Just then a couple of gulls floated by, grey and ghostly in
the dull mist, uttering their faint and peevish cry, and a
few drops of rain began to fall.

Are you ready, gentlemen?' said Sir Harry Payne
hoarsely.

No one spoke, but the principals bowed their heads.

When I say " three," said Sir Harry, * you will turn
round and fire. One — two — three !'

As the last word left Sir Harry Payne's lips, the principals
turned quickly round, and almost simultaneously
came two sharp echoing reports following the faint puffs of
smoke that shrouded the duellists for the moment.

Then, as the seconds were starting forward, Mellersh
saw that Eockley was looking up at the face of the
cliff. Then he looked down at Eichard Linnell, who, as the
shots were fired, twisted himself sharply round, dropping
his pistol, and now stood with one hand pressed to his
temple.

Mellersh saw a curious smile on Eockley's face, and a
hoarse gasp came from his throat.

It is my fate to shoot another man — dead!' he muttered;
and he was just in time to catch Eichard Linnell as he
reeled and was about to fall.

The doctor was coming up quickly, and Sir Harry had
run to his principal.

You've killed him,' he whispered.

I hope so,' was the cool reply. ' I'm not sure, though.
That cursed piece of chalk fell fi'oni the cliff as I fired, and
spoiled my aim. Go and see where he is hurt.'

As Sir Harry ran off, Eockley stooped and picked up a
piece of chalk rock as big as his fist, and then threw it down,
dusting his hand afterwards, and then removing the mark
of the chalk where it had struck him upon his right
shoulder.

Pah !' he exclaimed, pressing his handkerchief to this lip,
which was cut ; ' the tiling bounced up. I hope it has not
saved Mr. Eichard Linnell's life.'

Judging fi'om appearances it had not, for Eichard Linnell
lay upon the sand with his eyes half closed, and the blood
tricking from a wound over the right temple, just where
the haii^ began to grow.

Is he much hurt ?' whispered Sir Harry.

Don't know yet,' said the doctor sharply, as he examined
the fallen man. * Not Eockley 's fault if he is not.*

He's a perfect devil,' muttered Sir Harry, as, looking
very white, he gazed from one to the other, while the Major
slowly walked do^vn towards the sea and back.

Well ?' said Colonel Mellersh, as the doctor ceased his
examination.

Had my man better be off at once ?' said Sir Harry.
Give him a chance to get away.'

If you do get him away. Sir Harry Payne, let me know
VOL. II. 20

where he is gone. I may have a few words to say to Major
Bockley.'

I can't tell what may supervene. There may be concussion
of the brain,' said the surgeon. * Yes, he is coming
to now. The bullet has only scored his head. It was a
marvellous escape.'

!' muttered Major Rockley, as the news was conveyed
to lin. * Here, let's be off back, I want my breakfast.
Curse him, I've not done with, him yet, Payne. There
are other ways to touch the heart of a greenhorn like that,
than with bullets. I'd got him dead as a hanger. My
arm felt like steel, and my shot would have had him right
in the chest if that piece of chalk had not struck me and
jerked my arm. Come along.'

Hadn't I better go and see if I can be of any help ?'

Hadn't you better go and nurse the scoundrel, and read
to him a bit ? Bah ! Come along, man. He has his
second, and they can fetch help from the fishermen's cottages
if they want it.'

Sir Harry followed him up the cliff steps and along the
Down path without a word.

So, I shall not want a post-chaise,' said Cockle, with a
laugh. ' Xo rushing up to to%%'n and hiding for awhile in
chambers in St. James's, or running over to Bologna.
Good job, too. Save the money. I'm fearfully short. Why,
man, you look white.'

Do I ? It's cold. I'm glad that the affair has terminated
so well.*

Terminated ?' cried the Major, grasping him by the arm,
"* It has only begmi. I tell you there are other ways than
bullets to touch a man's heart, and I'll pierce his, curse
him ! so that he shall rue the day he ever crossed my path.'

Sir Harry looked at him uneasily.

Payne,' he continued, * I'm a firm friend to those who
help me — and lend me money,' he added, with a laugh —
•* but I never forgive an insult, or a woman's slight.'

Down on the beach. Colonel Mellersh was kneeling with
the great drops of perspiration standing on his face, holding
Eichard Linnell's hand, while the surgeon was looking on
anxiously at the returning signs of knowledge of his position
son his patient's part.

The other principal and second had been gone some
minutes when footsteps were heard, and James Bell and
Fisherman Dick came quickly down the cliff.

Is he much hurt, sir ?' said the former, with real signs of
trouble in his face.

'No, my man : you may tell the Major that it was a
narrow escape.'

Poor lad !' muttered the soldier, going down on one knee,
and making Colonel Mellersh look at him with surprise, ashe
took one cold hand, to hold it between his own for a few
moments.

Can we carry him to my house, gentlemen,' said Fisherman
Dick roughly. * 'Taint very far.'

'No, my man, no,' said the doctor; 'he has only been
stunned. Narrow escape, though. He'll walk home.'

'Do you mean it, sir?' cried James Bell. 'Beg pardon,
sir. Only glad the Major won't have to go. I'll get back
to barracks now. He'll be wanting me.'

x\ll right, my man. Take those confounded pistols with
you. There : be off.'

The soldier placed the pistols in the case, and, saluting
both gentlemen, hurried away by the shore, while Fisherman
Dick touched his hat again, and said in a whisper :

I've got a drop of right Nantes spirit at my cottage,
gentlemen, if you can bring him in there.'

No, no,' said the doctor. ' There, he's coming round fast
now,' and he pointed to Linnell's staring eyes.

The doctor was right. Half an hour later, with no worse
trouble to combat than a fierce headache, and the wound
smarting under its strapping, Eichard Linnell was able to
take the Colonel's arm and walk home, a warning to other
young men not to attempt to climb up the cliff to the Downs,,
and risk falling and cutting their heads !

For that was the version of Eichard Linnell's mishap that
ran through the town.

MISS Close IS Overcome.

It was a vain effort, for such an event was sure to be known
to others besides the parties concerned.

Sent on a special mission by her aunt that morning, to see
whether Mr. Higgles had any fish, and with a basket to
obtain a small bottle of a peculiar water that Fisherman
Dick secretly supplied to a few friends whom he could trust,
simple-faced Annie picked up some news.

You don't want any more brandy, aunty,' the girl had
said ; * there are two bottles not opened, and you said you
wouldn't have any more fish for ever so long.'

Oh, Annie !' cried Miss Close, ' I thought you were
beginning to be of a little use to me.'

The girl's mouth opened wide, and her nose turned red ;
but directly after a cunning smile came in her face, and her
eyes nearly closed.

Oh, I say, aunty,' she said softly, ' I know what you
mean now. You mean go and make that an excuse forgetting

to know about pretty Miss Denville going to see
about the little girl.'

Worse and worse, Annie,' cried Miss Close. ' Don't you
understand that a still tongue makes a wise head ?'

Oh, yes, aunty, I know now;' and nodding her head
very knowingly, Annie went off on her mission.

She returned very quickly, with a face quite scarlet with
heat and excitement, full of the news she had picked up
from Mrs. Miggles, who had determined not to say a word
of what she knew, and ended by telling all.

Miss Close was in a state of excitement, for she had
heard from a customer that young Mr. Linnell, of the
Parade, had fallen from the cliff that morning and cut his.
head, and the news turned the little woman pale, and she
staggered and felt sick. When Annie came back she had
recovered, but only ready on hearing her niece's news to
faint dead away and lie insensible, just as stout Mrs. Barclay
came in about a new account-book, and to purchase a
couple of pounds' worth of bill-stamps.

Poor little woman !' cried Mrs. Barclay sympathetically.
Here, don't make a fuss, my dear ; I'll help you. Let's,
get her on the sofa. It's only fainting, and the smelling-salts
will bring her round. That's the way,' she panted and puffed
as she helped to carry the slight little woman into the inner
room. ' Worse disasters at sea. Not so bad as Mr. Linnell
tumbling off the cliff this morning and cutting his head.'

He didn't tumble off the cliff,' said Annie, round-eyed
and trembling-sith eagerness, as she whispered in Mrs.
Barclay's ear.

Oh, yes, he did, my dear.'

No, he didn't,' whispered Annie, as Miss Close lay quite
senseless. ' Hearing about it all upset aunty.'

'Did it? What, his fall?'

No, no, it wasn't a fall; but I mustn't say anything.'

You don't know anything,' said Mrs. Barclay contemptuously.


Oh yes, I do,' whispered Annie. * It's very horrid.
Major Rockley shot him in a duel this morning for horsewhipping
him after Major Rockley had insulted Miss Den-ville.
There I'

Hush I' whispered Mrs. Barclay, whose face was now as
red as Annie's. * Your aunt is coming to.'

Don't say I told you. She would be so cross.'

Mrs. Barclay nodded ; and, after saying a few comforting
words to the sufferer as she came to, contented herself with
buying the bill-stamps, and left the shop, while, as soon as
she had recovered sufficiently. Miss Close wrote a few hasty
lines to Colonel Mellersh, and strictly enjoining her to hold
her tongue, sent her niece off to deliver the note on the
Parade.

Colonel Mellersh was not within, but Cora Dean and her
mother were alighting from the pony-carriage, and Annie

greeted them with a smile and a cm'tsey, which made Mrs.
Dean tap the girl on the shoulder with a formidable fan.

Here, you come in, and walk upstairs. I want a word
with you.'

No, no, not now, mother,' said Cora hastily.

'Now, just you let me have my own way for ones in my
life, please, Betsy,' said Mrs. Dean ; and to avoid having
words in the hall, where they could easily be overheard,
Cora gave way, and in due time, to her intense delight,
Annie was seated in one of Josiah Barclay's gilded easy-chairs,
with a piece of cake in her hand, and a glass of
ginger wine before her.

Which is quite good enough for her,' Mrs. Dean had
said to herself.

Cora had not taken off her things, but had gone to the
window, to stand looking out, and biting her lips with shame
and rage, as she heard her mother's words to the girl.

Trust me, ma'am ?' Annie said, with her mouth half full
of sweet Madeira cake, * that you may, ma'am, as much as
you would aunty. Oh, yes, I'm sure aunty gave his lordship
the notes, and he only laughed.'

Cora's beautiful white teeth gritted together as, ill-bred as
she was, she knew well enough that had she wished Lord
Carboro's openly-manifested admiration to ripen to her
profit, her mother's open invitations to him to call would
have destroyed her chance.

Then she tried to shut her ears to what was going on, and
Stood there wondering whether Eichard Linnell would go
out while she stood there — why it was the house had been
so quiet that morning, for she generally listened for an hour
to him playing duets with his father.

Then she wondered rather bitterly whether he would ever
care for her, and his coldly polite way be changed. He was
always civil and pleasant, and chatted with her when they
met, but that was all, and at times it mortified her, as she
thought how beautiful she was, making her vow that she
would be revenged upon him, while at other times all this
made her sit down and sob by the hour together.

Why should I trouble about him ?' she was asking herself
just then, as she gazed from the window, and ignored
the low buzzing of Annie's voice, which came huskily
through Madeira cake, ' I, who might accept almost any
man I like. I've good looks, and money, and there are
hundreds of men who would be only too glad of a smile.
As for '

Mr. Linnell, ma'am? Oh, yes, it's quite true,' Annie
was whispering, and the name sent a thrill through Cora.

But he lives downstairs, girl, and we should have known.'

Oh, yes, ma'am, I learn by heart — aunty makes me —
where all the fashionable people live. I know Mr. Linnell
two Mr. Linnets — live downstairs. It's in our visitor's
list, along with you, and Colonel Mellersh, and it's quite true.'

What was quite true about Eichard Linnell ? If it was
about Claire Denville, she would tear him from her ; she would
crush her. How dare she presume to think of her idol — the
true, brave fellow who had dashed into the sea and saved
her when she was drowning ?

Poor Fisherman Dick, like many more, not being young
and handsome, was forgotten after that ten-pound note.

Cora's eyes flashed, her cheeks burned, and she looked as
beautiful as an artist's idea of Juno, listening now with all
the concentration of her passionate nature.

I oughtn't to talk about it, ma'am, and I wouldn't tell
anyone but you,' Annie went on. * They said he fell over
the cliff this morning and cut his head.'

Cora Dean saw blood upon a white forehead, and she
clutched the back of a chair, for the room seemed to be
turning, and she felt sick.

But he didn't, ma'am.'

Isn't he hurt, then ?'

Yes, ma'am, badly. I wonder you didn't know. You
see, he met Major Eockley — you know him, ma'am ? — handsome
dark gentleman with mustachios.'

Yes, yes, I know,' said Mrs. Dean, revelling in the bit
of gossip. * Have some more cake.'

Thank you, ma'am. Major Eockley was out walking
with Miss Claire Denville out on the Downs '

Cora's faintness passed away, and the room ceased to

glide round as her eyes brightened, and she felt as if she
could have embraced that handsome roue, who always-bowed
to her with such a look of insolent contempt.

And then Mr. Lineal came up and took Major Eockley's
whip away and beat him.'

Cora's cheeks burned with jealous rage now. How dare
Eichard Linnell do that ? And yet she liked him for it. He
was so brave. But for Claire Denville ! Her eyes flashed
again.

Then they met this morning, ma'am, down on the sands,
and fought a real duel, and Major Cockle shot Mr. Linnell.*

It is not true !' cried Cora excitedly, and once more the
room began to turn.

Yes, ma'am, it's quite true,' said Annie, with her mouth
now full of cake.

Shot ! — injured by Major Eockley ! and she — she could nob
go down to him to wait upon him, and show him by her
every act how she loved him.

A minute before she had been ready to bless Major
Eockley. Now, curses were in her heart, as she thought of
him raising his hand against Eichard Linnell to strike him
down.

No, ma'am, he isn't very bad,' Annie went on, in answer
to a question of Mrs. Dean.

It can't be true,' Cora said to herself, as her brain seemed
to become a chaos of love, jealousy, hatred, and pride in the

brave young fellow who had saved her life, and, civilian
though he was, showed himself ready to meet such a
notorious fire-eater as the Major.

Just then she gave a gasp, for she saw a stiff, military-looking
man, whom she knew to be the regimental surgeon,
come up to the door.

■ It was true, then ; and it was all she could do to keep
from bursting into an hysterical fit of sobbing.

But a thought came directly that gave her strength, and
she felt joy and elation together as she said to herself :

He found them together, and worshipped the Major.
Well, so much the better. He can never think of Claire
Denville again. If he did '

She uttered a low unpleasant laugh, as Annie found that
she must go back, for she could eat no more cake ; and as
soon as they were alone Mrs. Dean exclaimed :

Don't, for goodness' sake, laugh like that, my dear ; it
gives me the cold shivers all down my back. It's just like
Messalina in *the Haunted Vampire," where she takes an
oath as she'll kill her rival or perish in the attempt.'

MES. Barclay IS PUZZLED.

Oh, my dear, and do you know how they're all a-talking
about you ?' cried Mrs. Barclay, as she sat panting beneath
the florid portrait of May Burnett in the M.C.'s shabby
drawing-room.

Claire looked up appealingly in the pleasant, plump face,
and her brow knit.

You see, it all comes to me, my dear, and it worries me
because I like you so.'

You were always very kind to me, Mrs. Barclay.'
Not half so kind as I should like to be, my dear. I
wanted to have you home when the mur '

Oh, hush V

Of course, my dear. That's my way. So vulgar and
thoughtless. Think of me now bringing that up to you who
hive here ; and us sitting in the very next room.'

Mrs. Barclay !'

Yes, I won't say another word, my dear. Not that I believe

in spirits or anything of that kind. But you were
saying about me being kind. Why, you won't let me be, my
dear. I'm sure the dresses I'd buy you, and the things I'd
give you, if you'd let me, would make some of them stare.'

But I could not let you, Mrs. Barclay,' said Claire, smiling.
No ; you're so proud, my dear, that's it. You see, Josiah

lets me have so much for housekeeping, that I've always
plenty to spare ; and as to jewellery, why, I might wash in
diamonds if I liked, but I don't.'

Let us be as usual, Mrs. Barclay,' said Claire, with more
animation, * and never mind about what people say, or
fashion, or dress, or any of the nonsense.'

I'm sure I should like to be, my dear ; but you being a
motherless girl, I don't like to hear people talking about you.'
Claire's face grew flushed.

Don't look like that, Claire, my dear. I'm not cross with
you, but when people talk about you being out walking with
that horrid black Major Eockley, it hurts me.'

I could not help it, Mrs. Barclay,' said Claire.
Then it's all true, then, about young Mr. Linnell horsewhipping
him ?'

Yes, yes ; but this is so cruel to me. He did beat him
for insulting me.'

Bless him then. I always liked him, my dear. How he
must love you !'

Oh, hush, hush !' cried Claire, in agony.

I don't see why. I'm sure he's everything that's good,
and brave ; and you need not sob like that, my dear, for,
from what I can hear, he isn't very badly hurt.'

Clan-e started. A dread that had been hanging over her
was beginning to assume form.

But they say it's a mercy that the Major's bullet did not
go an inch lower.'

Bullet ? The Major ! They have had a meeting ?'
Yes, my dear. I thought you must know, and I came to
talk to you about even speaking to — there — there, what a
woman I am. I came to do good, and I'm doing nothing but
harm. Now, she's going to faint.'

Xo, no!' cried Claire agitatedly; * it is nothing. I am
not going to faint, Mrs. Barclay, indeed. There, you see, I
am quite calm now.'

Yes, and I am sorry, my dear ; but I am such a thoughtless
woman. Barclay's quite right ; I haven't no head at all.'
Xo head ?' said Claire, smiling, as she sat down close to
her visitor and laid her hands upon her arm. * Perhaps it is
because you have so much heart.'

Heart, my dear ! why — no ; I declare I'm most afraid to
speakjforfear of saying something that may hurt yourfeehngs/

If you will not speak about — about '

Mr. Linnell, my dear ?'

Yes, but only to tell me that he is not much hurt — you
said so, did you not ?' cried Claire.

Yes, my dear ; he's not much hm^t. But, Clause, my
dear, wouldn't it be better if you — so pretty and young as
you are — did care very much for some one as nice and good
as he is ?'

No, no,' cried Claire excitedly. * Pray, pray say no more.
It is impossible.'

Well, you know best, my dear,' said Mrs. Barclay sadly*,
and you want me to talk about something else. Well, I'll
talk about you, only you must not mind if I say something
stupid. It's my way.'

I am sure you would not say anything to wound me,"
said Claire, kissing her.

Indeed I wouldn't, my dear : and, do you know, ever
since I found out how you people here were situated, through
Mr. Denville coming to see my Josiah, who is the real best
of men, I seemed to take to you like. I went home and had
a good cry after I'd been here the first time, and seen you
managing your poor father, and your sister and brother so
well.'

Claire's brow grew troubled, but her visitor prattled on.

You had another brother, hadn't you, my dear, who
couldn't agree with your father like, and then went away ?'

Yes,' said Claire, bowing her head to hide her face.

Ah, my Josiah told me so. Well, well, there's troubles in
every family, my dear ; and so long as pa has got you he has
not much cause for complaint.'

Claire looked up, trying to sniile, but it was a sorry attempt ;
and soon after her guest rose, assuring her that she need
not be uneasy about Mr. Linnell.

One word before I go, my dear, though, just as a secret.
It isn't that I'm curious, because I don't care who it is
marries, or whom they marry ; but I've no girls of my own,
and I do take an interest in you. Now, just in a whisper
like. I am an old friend.'

Yes, yes — indeed, you are. The only dear friend I have
Then tell me now ; put your lips close to my ear — it is to
be Mr. Linnell, is it not ?'

Never I' said Claire firmly.

Oh, my ! And I told you to whisper. I won't believe it's
that horrible Major.'

Mrs. Barclay,' said Claire, putting her arms round her
homely friend's neck, ' they say that every woman has her
duty in life : mine is to watch over and help my father, and
to be such protection as I can to my sister and brothers.'

What, and not get married at all?' cried Mrs. Barclay, ina
tone of disappointment.

And never be any man's wife,' said Claire sadly.
'Oh!'

Stop one moment, Mrs. Barclay,' whispered Claire, in a
strangely hesitating manner, ' you do like me, I know.'

Indeed, I do, my dear, though I must say you disappoint
me horribly.'

VOL. II. 21

Then I want you — whatever comes to pass — whatever
people may say of me — to try and think the best of me.'

Why, my darling !'

Yes : I know you will ; but your confidence may be sorely
tried, and I want you to think well of me always. I cannot
do all I wish, and — and — I cannot explain myself; only
think the best you can of me. Good-bye, good-bye 1'

She is the strangest girl I ever did meet,' said Mrs. Barclay,
as she panted away in her thick silk and enormous
open bonnet. * Think well of her, whatever comes to pass 1
Why, of course I will, poor girl !'

AN Interested Patron.

Well, Denville,' said Lord Carboro', ' I wanted to see you.*
In what way can I serve your lordship ?' said the M.C.,
with his best bow.

A pinch of your snuff.'

The pinch was taken, and the box snapped and returned.

Your arm.'

Denville's breast swelled as he offered his arm to the
elderly beau, and a flush of hope rose into his cheeks. The
sun must be coming out at last.

It was a pleasant thing to be seen walking along the
Parade in so familiar a way with Lord Carboro', and to his
great delight Denville saw that the Parade was well
filled.

He expected that this would be only a temporary condescension
from the wealthy old nobleman ; but Lord Carboro'
held on tightly, made a few very nasty remarks about some
of the people they passed, and then said suddenly :

21—2

Drelincourt has been asking me to interest myself with
the Prince to get your boy a commission.'
Indeed, my lord?'

Yes, indeed. 'Other pinch of snuff.'
The box — sniff — Snuff — snap.

Like to know what I said to her ?'
My lord, I am a father.'

Yes, Denville, I know it. Well.'

The old man changed the conversation to make another
remark or two about some visitors, and then said, suddenly
returning to the subject :

Drelincourt asked me to get the lad a commission.'

Yes, my lord.'

You don't think of letting that old harpy claw up the
boy?'

Oh, my lord !'

Of course, it would be madness. I told her I'd see her
ladyship made a mummy first.'

The M.C.'s heart sank.

She means to marry fat Matt Bray. I hope she will.
I said I'd see her ladyship made a mummy first, Denville ;
and — he, he, he ! she showed real colour. It came up in
her cheeks, all round the rouge. Poor old girl ! she is as
bad as her sister was : hates to hear about dying. Doosid
awkward thing, old Teigne being killed in your house. I
wonder who got her diamonds.'

Denville's hands began to tremble, and the beads of perspiration
to stand upon his forehead.

Must all die some day, I suppose. Great nuisance to
think about if the weather's fine, Denville ; but when it's a
cold, easterly wend, or one's gout's bad, I often feel as if I
shouldn't mind being tucked up comfortably. How do you
feel about it, Danville? You're not a chicken.'

My lord, I feel sometimes as if, once I could see my boy
settled, and my daughter well married, it would be a relief
to lie down and take the long sleep,' said the M.C. solemnly.

Demdlle,' said Lord Carboro', after a pause, during which
he held on tightly to his companion's arm. ' I've gone on for
years calling you an artificial old humbug, with your deportment
and niminy-pining ways. I hadn't the common sense
to see that they were like my wig and stock, sir — put on.
I beg your pardon, Denville. I do, sir : I beg your pardon.
You've the right stuff in you after all, and, sir — I'm very
proud to tell you that what I wouldn't do for that old harpy,
Drelincourt, I would do on my own account.'

My lord!'

Yes, sir ; asked His Eoyal Highness, myself, and he
said nothing would give him greater pleasure. Denville,
your son has a commission in the Light Dragoons.'

My lord, I— I '

Don't, don't, Denville,' said the old man, pressing his
arm. * Hold up man, or some of these idiots well be seeing

that yon are moved. Take a pinch of snuff, man — of mine,
and let's walk out upon the Downs, out here beyond the
fishermen's cottages, and my sight isn't what it was, or I
should have said that was Miss Claire going into yon fisherman's
hut.'

Impossible, my lord. Will you allow me to express
my '

No, no, no. Not a word, Denville. Why, man, you are
husky with emotion now, real emotion. Don't say another
word about it. Only make the boy do us justice.'

He shall, my lord,' said the M.C. in a broken voice.

And now, look here, Denville ; I'm about one of the most
selfish old fellows that ever breathed, and I want to see if I
can't have a little recompense for all my miseries and
disappointments . '

Yours, my lord ?'

Yes, sir, mine,' said the old beau. ' Do you think because
I'm rich I'm happy ? Not a bit of it. I haven't long to live
though now, and I want to make the best of the time left.'

My lord !'

Hold your tongue and listen. I heard all about Eockley
meeting Miss Claire and young Linnell thrashing him.'

It was a most unfortunate affair, my lord.'
I closet know that either. Pity young Linnell couldn't
shoot and pop off that scoundrel Eockley. By the way, he
looked daggers at me for getting your boy appointed to his

regiment ; but the boy shan't disgrace the corps, if I find
him money myself.'

Denville paused where they stood upon the Downs and
gazed wonderingly at the old Earl.

I make you stare, Denville. Well, I'll be frank with you,
and you shall be frank with me.'

The M.C. bowed and wiped his streaming face.

Of course she does not care for Rockley.'

Good heavens, my lord ; no !*

Nor for young Linnell ?'

The M.C. hemmed twice before he spoke.

I, too, will be frank with you, my lord,' he said. ' It
was in dead opposition to my wishes, but I'm afraid there
was something between my daughter and Mr. Richard
Linnell.'

Lord Carboro' looked at the speaker searchingly.

It was an unspoken attachment, my lord, nothing more ;
and since that terrible event at my house — I am obliged to
name it,' he said, with quivering lip — ' whatever intimacy
existed has been broken off.'

Humph ! Sure, Denville ?'

I have my daughter's word, my lord. That duel set me
thinking ; and like another father, my lord, of whom we
read, I bespoke her roundly.'

Oh ! come, Denville, don't compare yourself to Colonies,
man. He — he — he !'

Only to that extent, my lord. As I say, I spoke to her
and she assured me that there was nothing whatever
between her and Mr. Lmnell, but gratitude towards a
gentleman who saved her from insult.'

Denville, that Mellersh is his friend ; he ought to have
shown the boy how to shoot the scoundrel.'

The M.C. was trembling with excitement. He was-between
hope and dread, for he could not but divine what
was coming, and in spite of the glittering future it held upto
his view he shrank from it with fear.

AN ELDERLY Suite.

Gratitude, eh?' said Lord Carboro' suddenly.

'Yes, my lord,' said the M.C., who was perspiring profusely.


Deuced dangerous thing, Denville. Are you sure?'

My lord, I have my child's word, and that is
sacred.'

'Hah I' ejaculated Lord Carboro', 'you are right. Bless
her I she is as sweet and true as she is beautiful. She
stands alone here in her youthful dignity. Damme,
Delle, I always look upon her as some beautiful Greek
goddess, and I would have sooner gone to her funeral than
seen that roue Eockley win her. I would, damme.'

My lord, so would I,' said Demdlle huskily.

And you would sooner go to her funeral than see her my
wife, eh?' said the old beau abruptly.

My lord, I did not say so.'

Nor think it ?'

Stuart Denville, M.C. of Saltinville, stood there out on
the hazy Downs, trembling, obsequious, tossed by his
emotions. It was so dazzling, this suggestion of an offer
for his child's hand. May had married a rich man ; but for
Claire, his beautiful child, to become the wife of a wealthy
nobleman — to become Countess of Carboro' ! It was such
an exaltation — greater than his highest dreams. But before
him stood that withered old man, scanning him with his
sharp eyes, and ready to probe him with his bitterly venomed
tongue. He, to be the husband of his beautiful child. It
was sacrilege.

We agreed to be quite frank,' said Lord Carboro' sharply.

Denville drew a long breath, and biting his lip, called up
before his mental vision the sweet soft face of his child
wearing a new horror as he bore her this news, and
trampling down, as it were, the great temptation, he castoff
his mincing ways, his servile politeness, and in a quick,
firm voice exclaimed :

Will your lordship commence and set me the example ?
What do you mean ?'

Come, I like that, Denville. Spoken like a man. Well,
I'll be frank. I have long been thinking of your child, and
watching her, and as I have watched her I have loved — no,
that is absurd at my age — my liking for her has grown. I
have put it off and it has come back, and I have put it off
again as I have heard some bit of scandal, but she has

always come out of it so spotless and well that I have grown
more — well, infatuated.'

He paused for a minute, and then went on speaking
earnestly.

Then came that horror at your house, just as I had made
up my mind to speak to you ; and I said no : it was impossible
; but the feeling grew. Yes, man, even at my age.'

Denville bowed, and drew himself up very stiffly.

I waited, Danville, and was about to speak to you when
this affair with Eockley and the duel took place, and I
stopped at home and swore horribly ; but the feeling still
grew and grew, and as that has all passed away, I now ask
you if you will give me your consent. I ask you as a gentleman,
Denville, to address her and ask her if she will be my
wife.'

Denville did not answer, for a tremendous struggle was
going on within his breast, and it was hard to say which side
would win.

Hah !' said Lord Carboro', speaking quickly ; ' you say I
am very old. Granted. That I ought to think of my coffin
instead of a wife. Granted. That I am an old fool ; but
there I join issue.'

Denville had raised his hands deprecatingly.

I am not an old fool, Deny-ille.'

No, my lord, you are not.'

111 tell you why. I have said to myself that if this

beautiful young creature swore to be my faithful wife I could
trust her. She would be a sweet companion for my declining
years ; and, God bless her ! if she consented, I would repay
her for the sacrifice. In a few years I should leave her
young, rich, titled, and free to choose some more suitable
companion than the old man she had tended to his grave.'

There were no marks lying on the ground as those two
elderly men stood face to face alone on the short turf of the
Downs ; but it seemed as if they must have dropped a tear.

Neither spoke for some minutes, and then it was the
Master of the Ceremonies.

My lord,' he said firmly, ' you have given me this commission
for my son as a bribe.'

No, no, Denville, I swear I have not.'

Take it back, my lord, for what you ask is impossible.'

Impossible ?'

Fate has been very hard to me, my lord, and the burden
has been too heavy at times to bear ; but I cannot do this
thing. I love my child too well.'

They stood gazing out to sea for some minutes, and only
the rushing of the wind was heard, or the wailing cry of the
gulls, but at last Lord Carboro' spoke.

Denville, I did not know you,' he said gravely. * I
thought I had to deal with a different man ; but don't let
us be hasty. As to the commission, it is your boy's, and
may he deserve it. As to what we have said, let us wait.

Don't refuse me absolutely, and don't say a word to Miss
Denville. Give me leave to visit at your house, and let
matters slide for a few months. Things may shape themselves
so that you may change your mind ; do you consent
to this ?'

It would be like buoying your lordship up with false
hopes.'

That is my look-out, sir ; do you consent ?'

I am your lordship's obedient, humble servant.'

You are the man I offer to make my father-in-law ?
Answer me, sir, like a man.'

I consent.'

That's better. Denville, your hand. In future I shall
know you as the man I have seen to-day. I never respected
you one half so much before.'

[JAMES BELL S DECISION.

It was in honour of Morton Denville's reception into the
regiment that the Master of the Ceremonies received. There
had been some difficulty in the matter, but on the very first
night that the young man dined at the mess, v^hen, urged
by Major Cockle, his brother-officers had decided to send
him to Coventry, it so happened that ' a certain gentleman '
was at Saltinville and had expressed his intention to Colonel
Lascelles of looking in.

Consequently, it was decided not to transport the young
subaltern to the Midlands that night ; and as it happened
His Royal Highness asked the Colonel who the tall youth
was, ordered him to be introduced, and shook hands with
the young man.

Devilish gentlemanly fellow, your father, my lad. Always
looks a gentleman, and carries a devilish good pinch of snuff.
My compliments to him, and tell him I was glad to oblige
Carboro'.'

They were all as civil to me as could be, after that, Claire,'
said Morton, relating the meeting at home. * Even Eockley
shook hands after dinner, when we'd had a lot of claret, and
he apologized about being carried away, he called it, and
said we were brother-officers now, and must be good friends.
I don't like him, though.'

Claire turned pale.

I say, though, Claire, I haven't said a word to the dad,
but what am I to do ? I turned cold and hot, and queer as
could be yesterday. Whom do you think I met ?'

Claire knew what was coming, but she did not speak.

Fred. I'd half forgotten about him, and he's in my troop.'

Did — did Fred speak, Morton ?'

No ; he cut me dead, and of course he is James Bell in
the regimental books; but, I say, isn't it awkward? I can't
know him, you see, as my brother : what shall I do?'

Fred has shown you,' said Claire huskily, as her troubles
seemed to be on the increase. * I will try and persuade him
to leave the regiment. We must buy him out.'

Yes, to be sure,' cried the boy. ' Oh, I say, what a clever
old girl you are. Sis ! Why, you're better than a mother.'

Claire smiled sadly as he kissed her and left the house.

That night she wrote to Private James Bell about the
difficulty — a long sisterly letter, offering to get the money to
buy his discharge, and alluding to everything as tenderly as
the subject would allow.

In due time a crisp short reply came back :

Dear Claire,

No, I shall not leave the regiment. I want to keep
my eye on the Major. Tell Morton not to be afraid. I am
only James Bell, and I shall never presume. I am too well
disciplined for that. Take care of your dear self.

Good-bye, F.'

Claire wept over the letter, and hid it with her treasures.
The difficulty seemed to have passed away, and she felt
lighter at heart.

She had to prepare too for the evening that the Master
of the Ceremonies had determined to give, not because he
could afford it, but nominally, as intimated, in honour of his
son's receiving a commission, more especially because Lord
Carboro' had wished it, and said that he should come.

With such a visitor to give eclat to the proceedings, the
difficulty was how to arrange to issue invitations, for Den-ville,
with throbbing breast, felt that no one would decline.

He was in a tremor for days, as he thought the matter
over, and was swayed by his ambition and his true manhood,
to and fro.

At times he raised his eyes to find that Claire was watching
him, and her cold candid look made him shrink within himself,
as he thought of the past, and he shivered in dread lest
she should display that terrible repugnance again, instead

of the sad, half despondent distance that had become her
manner and her bearing towards him.

She never kissed him, but, when he took her hand, she
suffered him to press his Hps to her brow without flinching
as she had at first, and he sighed and accepted his fate.

There had been times of late when the entanglement of
his younger son's position in the regiment, with an elder
brother a private in the ranks, had half driven him mad,
keeping him awake night after night ; and Claire had lain
weeping despairingly as she had heard him pace his room,
but the horrible difficulty he had been anticipating did not
seem to come home, and he waited for the Nemesis that
would some day arrive, hoping that he might be allowed
time to complete his plans before the bolt fell.

He sat one morning, deciding with Claire to whom invitations
were to be issued. Lady Drelincourt would come of
course, as Lord Carboro' would be there, and several other
notables had been invited.

Then the officers of the regiment, of course.'

Claire half rose and looked in her father's face.

We must forget that, my child,' he said imploringly.
•* Major Rockley is a gentleman, and he has in some sort
apologized to Morton. He told me so. To leave him out
would be to insult him. He must be asked. His good
sense will keep him away. ' You must ask Colonel Mellersh,
too. He is a great friend of Colonel Lascelles.'

VOL. II. 22

You will ask Mr. and Mrs. Barclay, father?' said Claire.

Oh, yes, we must. Dreadfully vulgar people, but it is a
necessity.'

Claire sighed as she thought of what was behind Mrs.
Barclay's vulgarity, and the note was written.

A couple of days passed, and everyone without exception had
expressed his or her intention of being present, when, as he
was on the Parade, Colonel Mellersh met the M.C., and
said:

By the way, Denville, I want you to invite my young
friend Linnell to your party.'

I shall be charmed,' said Denville, with a smile, for he
could not refuse ; and in due course Eichard Linnell received
an invitation and replied.

A little farther on, Denville came upon Lady Drelincourt
in her chair.

Ah, Denville, bad man,' she said, tapping him with her
folded fan. ' I feel as if I could not come to your house.
My poor dear sister !'

The houses on the Parade seemed to reel before the M.C.'s.
eyes.

But one cannot grieve for ever. I shall come. Have
you asked that wicked Eockley ?'

Denville bowed.

« And Sir Matthew Bray ?'

All the officers whom duty will allow are coming.'

That's well ; and now, Dens-ille, you must send an imitation
with apologies to Mrs. Pontardent.'

Lady DreHncourt I'

*I can't help it. She wishes to come, and I have promised
that she shall.'

The result was that Mrs. Pontardeut was invited, and in
turn she expressed a wish that her dear friends the Deans,
whom Mr. Demille had introduced to her, should not be left
out.

The Master of the Ceremonies had the deciding who should
be in society, and who should not ; and here he was making
a stand when Lord Carboro' came up — it was on the pier —
and was appealed to by Mrs. Pontardent.

• Oh, yes, Demille,' he said good-humouredly ; * ask Mrs.
and Miss Dean.'

The Master of the Ceremonies ruled the roost, but he was
everybody's slave ; and, in this case, the only way out of
the difficulty after they had been neglected so long was to
call with Claire and invite them personally.

If you wish it. papa,' Claire said, when spoken to on the
subject.

I do not, my dear,' he replied, with a sigh. ' My position
compels it.'

They went trembling : Claire in agony lest she should
encounter Richard Linnell ; her father about the expenses
into which he was drifting, for the tradespeople were giving

22—2

him broad hints, especially the confectioner, that money
must be forthcoming if the refreshments were to be supplied.
Cora Dean's eyes flashed with pride and jealousy as the
visitors were shown in, but she received Claire courteously,
and the wonderfully different pair were left together by the
open window, while Mrs. Dean drew the Master of the Ceremonies
aside.

I am pleased, Mr. Denville,' she whispered. ' This is
real good of you. I knew you would get us into society at
last. Mrs. Pontardent has been very kind, but she ain't
everybody. I wanted my Bet — my Cora — to meet my Lady
Drelincourt and the other big ones. After this, of course,
it's all plain sailing, and we shall go on. I say, just look at
'em.'

Denville turned with a sigh towards the bay window where
Claire and Cora were seated, talking quietly, but with eyes
that seemed to fight and fence, as if each feared the
other.

You go into a many houses and don't see such a pair as
that.'

Your daughter is a beautiful woman, Mrs. Dean.'

Lady'' said the latter correctively ; * and so's yours,
only too cold and pale. And now, look here, Denville, as
friends — I know what's what.'
' Eeally, Mrs. Dean, you puzzle me.'

Hush ! Don't speak so loud. Look here, you've done

me a thoroughly good turn, and I'm a warm woman, and
not ungrateful. As I said before, I know what's what-parties
ain't done well for nothing, and expenses comes
heavy sometimes. If you want to borrow thirty or forty
pounds — there, stuff! you must have your fees. I'm going
to put half a dozen five-pound notes under the chant ornament
in the back room. You can look round and admire
the rooms and get it.'

His spirit rebelled, but his breeches pocket gaped horribly,
and wincing in spirit, he rose and went forward to talk to
Cora in his society way, starting, in spite of himself, as he
heard the chink of china on marble, while, after a time, he
began in the most graceful way to gaze through his eyeglass
at the pictures and china from Mr. Barclay's ample store,
ending by securing the notes in the most nonchalant way.

After letting a sufficient time elapse, the Danville took
their leave, and Mrs. Dean broke out in ecstasy :

There, Betsy, at last. You'll be a real lady now.'
Yes, mother,' said Cora dreamily.

I say, Demdlle isn't a bad one, only he has to be
paid.'

It's the custom, mother.'

Oh, yes. You know what 'Hamlet says, as your poor
father used to make jokes about, and call breeches ; but I
say, isn't she a milk-and-water chit beside you, my gal?
Didn't you feel as if you 'acted her?'

No, mother,' said Cora thoughtfully. ' She's different to
what I expected. I don't think she'll live.'

Don't talk like that. Now, let's see what about your
noo dress.'

x\nd yours, mother ?'

Of course. And feathers.'

And as this conversation went on, Stuart Denville and his
daughter Claire walked homeward, the latter with the gloom
deepening, so it seemed, over her young life, the former with
the six crisp notes riding lightly in his pocket, and the load
of misery and shame growing heavier day by day.

IN SOCIETY.

It was a proud time for the M.C., and he knew how it would
be canvassed in Saltimdlle. All the principal people would
have honoured his little home, and in the future he saw his
fees and offerings doubled, and Claire well married — to Lord
Carboro'. No, he could not say that, though the bait was
gUttering still before his eyes.

He was in the drawing-room waiting, with pretty May
smiling out of her curls, hanging in her tawdry frame upon
the wall ; but Claire was not yet down.

If she would only forget that night and not avoid him as
she did, how much less difficult this burden would be to bear.

He rang, and Isaac, in a new suit of livery, appeared.

Send word to your mistress that it is time she was down,
Isaac'

Yes, sir.'

Is everything ready ?'

Yes, sir.'

The cards on the tables ?'

Yes, sh'

And the refreshments ?'

Yes, sir.'

You will ask Lady Drelincourt's servant to stop and help
wait.'

Yes, sir.'

And the Earl of Carboro's.'

Yes, sir.'

Perhaps it would be as well to keep Mr. Burnett's man
also.'

Yes, sir.'

I need say no more, Isaac, only that you will see that
the tea and coffee are hot, and that the refreshments in the
dining-room are ready in relays.'

Yes, sir ; everything shall be done, sir ; and would you
mind casting your eye over that, sir ?'

Certainly, I will do so, Isaac. Hem ! An account, Isaac?'
Yes, sir — wages, sir ; and if you would make it convenient
'

My good Isaac,' said the M.C. blandly, ' as you must be
aware, gentlemen are in the habit sometimes of taking
rather long credit, and of often being in debt. I might cite
to you His Eoyal Highness. But no one troubles thereon,,
because it is well known that sooner or later His Royal Highness
will pay his debts.'

Yes, sir ; of course, sir ; but voyages, sir '

Are wanted, Isaac, of course. Now, my good Isaac, you
must have seen how much occupied I have been of late.
No : say no more now. I will look over your statement,,
and you shall be paid.'

A tremendous knock and ring cut short this little scene,,
and Danville griped the dew from this face as he uttered a low
sigh of relief.

She will come down now. — Ah, my dear Mrs. Barclay ;
my dear Barclay. Delighted to see you both.'

I say, Dem-ille, old fellow, you're going it, eh?'

My dear Barclay, a sheer necessity. You see how I have
placed my son.'

Umph ! yes,' said the money-lender, with a chuckle ;
but I'm no better off. You are. One less to keep, but at
my expense.'

But, my dear Barclay '

Ah, it's all very well, but you came to me to find the
money for this outfit.'

Now, look here, Jo — si — ah,' cried Mrs. Barclay, who
eras a wonder of satin, feathers, and jewellery, * Mr. Den-ville
has been kind enough to ask us to his party, and I will
not have another word said about bills and money. I've
come to enjoy myself, and I mean to. There !'

Bless the woman !' sighed Demdlle.

And Where's Miss Claire ? Oh, here she is. Oh, my

dear, how lovable you look in your plain pearl satin. Oh, I
never did ! Only oughtn't you to have a necklace on ? I
say, take me to your room, and let me lend you mine.'

She placed her plump hand upon a magnificent ruby necklet
that she v^ore, but Claire checked her.

No, no, no, Mrs. Barclay,' she whispered.

Well, perhaps you're right, my dear. Nothing wouldn't
make you look better.'

Let me compliment you too. Miss Denville,' said Barclay
in his brusque way ; and, after a smile and a few words, he
turned back to talk to his host.

• * I say, Denville — why, it was in that back room that —
why, you've made it into a back drawing-room.'

For God's sake, Barclay !'

Denville caught at his visitor's arm, and looked at him ina
ghastly way.

Eh ? Why, you look scared. Ah, well, it was stupid to
mention it at a time like this. Mustn't allude to it when
they are all here, eh ?'

For heaven's sake, no.'

All right, I won't. I say, Denville, what do you think of
that ?'

He drew a case from his pocket, opened it, and displayed
a necklace of large single diamonds, the sight of which made
the M.C. start and shiver.

Magnificent !' he faltered.

I should think they are. All choice picked stones, sir
Belonged to a Countess.'

To a Countess?' said Denville, in a faltering voice.

Yes, sir. I say, your bread's beginning to be buttered
thick. Look here.'

He drew out another case as they stood alone in the front
room.

There's a set of pearls, sir. There's lustre and regularity.
Two fifty guineas, Demdlle.'

But, my dear Barclay,' said the host, striving to recover
his equanimity, * why have you brought those here ?'

^\Tiy have I brought 'em ? Don't you know ? Well, I'll
tell you. Old Carboro' wants to pay a delicate attention to
a lady he admires, and he bade me bring two or three things
here to choose from. I mean to sell old Drelincourt the one
he does not take. Look, I've two more lots.'

But, my dear Barclay, surely you weill not attempt to sell
or barter here — in my house,' said Den\dlle piteously.

Not try ? Oh, won't I, though ! Why, my dear Denville,
you don't suppose I came to waste time, do you? Not I.'

There was an announcement here, and Denville had to
hide the feeling of annoyance mingled with pleasure that
came upon him, for there could be no doubt in his own mind
for whom the jewels were intended.

How would Claire treat the offer ?

The guests began to arrive fast now and ths shabbiness

of the candle-decked room was soon turned into a suitably
subdued setting to the rich dresses which Mrs. Barclay
scanned in turn, and decided were not so good as her own.

The incident about the jewels troubled Denville more and
more, and he found himself glancing from time to time at
the beautiful woman in her simple, pearl-tinted satin, who
was doing the honours of his house so gracefully.

Yes,' he sighed, ' worthy to be a Countess, but ' He

drew his breath hard. Poor as he was, it seemed too terrible
a sacrifice.

Then the temptation came upon him very strongly again.
Each, admired, beautiful, an enviable position ; and, once she
was married, the terrible disclosure that would some day
perhaps come would not affect her.

'Colonel Meters ; Mr. Eichard Linnell,' announced
Isaac ; and a feeling of jealous anger against the young man
he had been obliged to invite came over him, but had to be
hidden by a smile as the two new-comers advanced to
Claire.

Denville watched them keenly ; but Claire's face was as
calm as if they had been total strangers. She gave them
both a most courteous greeting. That was all.

Lord Carboro',' announced Isaac.

There was a little excitement here, as the wealthy old
beau entered, looking very keen and sharp, but very old ;
and as Denville saw him take Claire's hand, the feeling of

elation was swept away by a cold, despairing chill. It was
impossible.

And yet, as his lordship stood chatting to the beautiful
girl, Demille noticed that there was a change in her. She
seemed brighter and more animated. She smiled at the old
man's remarks, and once more the impossible seemed to be
growing possible, for Claire was only a woman, after all.

Colonel Mellersh saw this too, and half sneeringly turned
to Eichard Linnell.

There,' he said, * much good you've done by making m3
bring you. I believe your syren has captivated old Carboro'.'
Just look at the old man,' whispered Mrs. Barclay to he.'
husband. ' Why, I declare, he's quite gallant.'

Hold yom tongue, and don't you let it go, old woman.
Here he is.'

Pinch of your snuff, Barclay,' said the old dandy, coming
up smiling. * My compliments to you, Mrs. Barclay. You
look charming.'

Oh, my lord I' said Mrs. Barclay, rising to curtsey, and
saying to herself, ' As if I didn't know better than that.'

I can't think what you were about to marry such an
ugly old scoundrel as Barclay here. Have you brought
anything ?'

He took Barclay's arm, and they walked into the back
drawing-room, where there were a couple of card-tables.
Dick,' said Colonel Meilersh, ' old Carboro's going to

borrow money, or else — by Jove, he's getting a present
from him for your beloved.'

I thought you were my friend, Mellersh,' said Linnell,
with his brow knitting.

So I am. Look.'

I am not a spy,' said Linnell coldly, and he turned away.

What have you brought ?' said Lord Carboro'.

These diamonds, my lord, this string of pearls, and a large
diamond bracelet. Look at these diamonds, my lord '

Don't talk. I don't want everybody to see. Lay them
on the table. No : show me the pearls.'

They are perfect, my lord, and '

Hold your tongue, man. That will do.'

I'll slip out this bracelet, my lord. No ; I'll go and
give it to my wife. She shall put it on, and you can go and
talk to her, and see how beautiful it is in design.'

Hold your tongue, man. The pearls will do. How
much?'

Three hundred guineas, my lord. They are '

Bah ! Robbery ! I'll give you two hundred down. Do
you think I want credit ?'

But, my lord, I should lose heavily.'
And a doosid good thing too, Barclay. You want
bleeding. Am I to have them ?'

Two fifty, my lord, as you are so old a friend.'

Two hundred — in an instant. Yes, or no ?'

Well, yes, my lord.'

Give me another pinch of snuff, Barclay, and hold the
pearls in yom' hand, Never mind the case. Thanks, that
will do. Come for the money in the morning.'

The exchange was ingeniously effected, but Colonel Mellersh
saw it, and his Hps tightened as he glanced at Eichard Linnell.

He's got the pearls, old woman,' said Barclay, going
back to this wife where she sat fanning herself, and alone.

How much ?'

Two hundred guineas.'

Let's see ; you gave the Hon. Mrs. Beam fifty for 'em,
didn't you, Josiah ?'

Yes ; but they're worth a hundred, honestly.'
And is he going to give 'em to Claire ?'

Don't know. Wait.'

Lady Drelincourt, Sir Matthew Bray, Colonel Lascelles,'
announced Isaac ; and, before the small talk was half over,
he shouted again : * Sir Harry Payne, Major Cockle, Mr.
Morton Denville.'

Eichard Linnell told himself that he was no spy, but he
could not keep his eyes from the group, as the officers
entered, and were received by Clause.

It was a crucial meeting, but she bore it well, bowing
rather stiffly to Major Eockley as he advanced in a deprecating
way ; and he was evidently about to stay by her
side, but Isaac announced :

Mrs. and Miss Dean.'

There was a little buzz of excitement.

Mrs. Pontardent.'

This lady meant to be before her ^jvotegees ; but she was
in time after all, and after a quiet, unaffected welcome from
claire, they formed a little group by themselves, about
whom, like flies attracted by bright colours, the officers
buzzed.

Mrs. Pontardent was a tall, good-looking, lady-like
woman, who patronised the Master of the Ceremonies when
they spoke, and complimented him upon the appearance of
•*his little girl.'

You must bring her to one of my evenings, Denville.'

He would have said * Impossible ' had he dared. As it
was, he said he should be charmed, and this set him thinking
about how much money was won and lost there, when fresh
arrivals took up his attention, and soon after Isaac announced:

Mr. and Mrs. Frank Burnett.'

Claire uttered a sigh of relief as she shook hands with her
sister and brother-in-law, the latter pairing off directly with
sone of the officers.

Well,' said May eagerly, ' is all right ?'

Yes, dear ; but they want money, and I have none.'
* Oh, dear, money again ! Well, I'll see.'

But, May dear, you must do something more.'

■* What do you mean ?'

Tills task grows more difficult every day. You must
really make some arrangements, or I shall be compromised.*

Well, how shall I be ? do you want me to be compromised
? I declare you have no more feeling than a stone.*

May — dear May !'

'It's quite true. I'm disgraced by my family at every
turn. What with brothers turning common soldiers, and
horrors in the house, and '

My dear Mrs. Burnett, this is an unexpected pleasure,' said
Sir Harris Payne, coming up vdih Lord Carboro', who managed
to cut in before Eockley, who was approaching Claire.

Oh, what a wicked, wicked story-teller you are !' said
May, with childish playfulness, as Sir Harry remained by
her side, while Lord Carboro' led off Claire. ' You knew I
was coming.'

I did, I did,' he whispered passionately.

■* Hush ! Don't go on like that. Everybody is watching us.*

^ Then when will you give me a chance to see you alone ?*

Oh, I couldn't think of such a tiling.'
^ May ! dearest May.'

Hush !'

The conversation was carried on in a low tone, and then.
May exclaimed :

Oh, impossible !'

It is not,' he said eagerly. ' It is simplicity itself.*
He whispered again, and May Burnett shook her head.
VOL. 11. 23

*I implore you,' he whispered. * You know all I feel,
but you are as hard and cold as you are beautiful. There,
I swear if you do not consent, I'll '

Pistols, or off the pier ?' said May, with a provoking smile.
Oh, you are maddening !' he exclaimed. ' I believe you

would like to see me lying dead.'

Oh, no ; I don't like to see dead people,' she said
mockingly.

All these weary months, and not one short interview.
You are playing with me. Curse him !'

Curse whom ?' said May coolly.

That husband of yours. I'll pick a quarrel with him
next time wee play cards and shoot him.'

Ha — ha — ha — ha — ha !'

It was a sweetly innocent sounding little trill of laughter
as ever passed from a provoking pouting rosebud of a mouth ;
and Claire heard it, and turned paler than ordinary, as she
saw in whose company her sister was.

You will excuse me now, Lord Carboro',' she said. * I
have my duties as hostess to attend to.'

One moment,' he said, placing his back to the company,
and gazing with a look of such reverence as he had not
for long years felt for woman in the sweet face before
him.

Claire looked up at him half wonderingly.

I am a very old friend of your father, Miss Denville.'

Oh, yes, my lord. I remember you when I was quite a
Httle child.'

And now,' he said, * I am getting to be an old man, and
you have grown into a beautiful woman. Will you — do not
be alarmed ; no one can see — will you accept this little
offering from so old a friend, and wear it for his sake ?'

He held out the lustrous necklace as he spoke, believing
that they were quite unseen ; but it was not so, for Colonel
Mellersh said softly to Linnell :

There, Dick, what did I tell you?'

Lord Carboro',' said Claire, with quiet dignity, * I could
only take so valuable a jewel from — from '

A very dear friend, my child. Let me be that friend.'
She looked at him searchingly, and then dropped her

eyes, saying nothing, but drawing back with a slight gesture
that was unmistakable, and glided away.

The mentor is not always right, Colonel Mellersh,' said
Eichard Linnell quietly. * I feel as if I had been playing the
spy, but I do not regret it, from the effect it must have on you.'

'Egad, she's a very queen,' said Lord Carboro', as he
quietly took out his snuff-box, and dropped the necklet into
his pocket. * By George, sir, I never thought there was
such a woman in the world.'

The conversation was at its height, and Claire twice overmanaged
to intercept Sir Harry when he was approaching
her sister, but only to be snubbed for her pains by May.

23—2

She was conscious that Eockley was seeking an opportunity
to approach her, but she gave him none, her position as
hostess giving her plenty of chances for avoiding those she
did not wish to meet, in attending and introducing others.

Hang the girl ! she's a regular sorceress,' said Colonel
Mellersh to himself. * She'll end by charming me. I want
a game at cards, and if I leave Dick, he'll be hanging on to
her strings directly.'

Well, mother, are you satisfied ?' said Cora, as the
evening went by.

Satisfied? Oh, I don't mind, my dear, so long as you
get on. And you are, you know, sitting here among the
big people, I say, Cory, I am proud of you.'

That's right, mother.'

But I say, what did Colonel Mellersh say to you as he
went to the card-table ?'

Asked me, as any gentleman would, whether he should
take me down to have some refreshment.'

Well, that was kind and neighbourly. I rather like him,
but I do wish you wouldn't encourage that young Linnell so.'

Mother !'

There, I've done. I won't say another word. Don't
fly out at me here. Now, that is a man to admire.'

What, Mr. Eichard Linnell?'

No : stuff, Cory. You know who I mean — that Major
Eockley. I couldn't hear a word he said to you. I wouldn't,

for I don't like to stand in your way. I say, Cory, he'll bea
Colonel and a General some day. Why not him ?'

Would you like to know what he said to me, mother ?'
Yes ; he did quite make love to you, didn't he ?'

Yes.'

Hah, I thought so.'

Mrs. Dean's rings crackled as she rubbed her hands, and
metaphorically hugged herself.

That comes of getting into good society, Cora. Ladies
drop into engagements without having to look after the
gentlemen. You see, they are so brought together like.
That Denville puts a sort of stamp on you like, and then
you're in society, and handsome Majors come and throw
themselves at your feet.'

Yes,' said Cora, speaking through her teeth, ' and insult
you, and dare to speak to you as if you were some beautiful
toy brought and set up for their amusement.'

Cory !'

I tell you that every word he spoke to me in his mocking
gallant way was an insult, and made my fingers tingle and
my face burn. Mother, I've found out that there are two
classes of men in the world.'

Oh, my gracious ! now she's off again,' sighed Mrs. Dean.
There are those who naturally honour and respect

woman with all the manly chivalry of their nature, and
those who look upon her as a being several degrees lower

than themselves. Mother, that man made me feel to-night
as if I could kill him.'

Oh dear; oh dear !' sighed Mrs. Dean in a whisper to
her daughter, * if this is coming into society, and you are
going on talking in that savage way, we had better stop
at home. I expect you snubbed the Major in that forty way
of yours, and he has gone after that chit of Danville's.'

Where ? Has he mother ?' cried Cora, in an excited
whisper.

Yes ; he is bending over her and making big eyes at her.
I say, he is a handsome man, Cory, and if I know anything,
he's regularly took with her.'

Are you sure, mother ?'

Sure ? Just as if I couldn't tell in a moment. You
might get him away from her if you liked, I dare say.
Look at that.'

She drew back a little that her child might see where
Eockley was speaking in a markedly deferential manner to
Claire ; and Cora's colour went and came, and her bosom
heaved in unison.

Bless your 'art, Cory, I ain't lived to my age without
picking up a little. Why, since I've been sitting here tonight
I've picked up no end, and if I was a scandalous old
woman I could make any amount of mischief.'

Cora did not answer, for just then Lord Carboro' came up.

Let me take you down to have a jelly, Miss Dean,' he said.

Cora looked up at him and was about to refuse ; but there
was such a quiet, respectful look in the old man's eyes that
she took his arm.

I'll come and fetch you afterwards, Mrs. Dean,' he said
and they crossed the room.

There,' said Mrs. Dean. ' Now I'm a happy woman.
It might be after all. Countess — not a Shakespeare countess
or duchess for six nights only, as it says in the bills, but
altogether. Hah, I paid for this party, and I don't grudge
the money, and Denville's made himself a friend. I was
gong to say to my gal : there's that Sir Matthew Bray
making up to old Lady Drelincourt, and that Sir Harry
Payne to Mrs. Burnett, and Major Eockley to Claire Den-valle,
and young Linnell as jealous as can be. And now, to
top off with and finish the scene, Lord Carboro' comes and
takes off my Cora. Well, we're in society at last.'

Look here, old woman, this bracelet case is banging
against my leg horribly, and if I have two things old Drelin-
court will hesitate between them and take neither. If I've
only one she may take it. I think I can get her alone now.
Here, slip this into your pocket.'

Oh, but Jo-si-ah, I can't.'

Yes, you can, stupid ; you've got lots of room. Here, I
want to clear my expenses to-night.'
Why, you have, Jo-si-ah.'
Pooh! That's nothing. Here, catch hold.'

He slipped the case into his wife's hand, and she took it
and passed it under a fold of her satin dress.

Barclay strolled away to try and get hold of 'Lady Drelin-
court, and just then Denville came up.

My dear Mrs. Barclay,' he said, ' you have been sitting
all alone so long, and I could not get to you, and poor
Claire is so busy.'

Oh, don't you mind mee, Mr. Denville. I'm nobody.'

But you must be faint.'

Well, since you put it like that, Mr. Denville, I really
have got such a dreadful feeling of sinking inside me that if
it was only a sangwidge and a glass of sherry, I'd say bless,
you.'

Come then, my dear madam,' said Denville. * This.
way.'

She rose and took the offered arm, and Lord Carboro^
smiled as the florid little woman went by him. Then he
drew back by a curtain, and began taking snuff and watching
Claire, as she now stood still, and he saw her meet
Linnell's eyes just as Eockley, who had been watching his
opportunity, was going up to her.

Linnell looked at her with eyes that said, ' May I come ?^
and he read that long, calm, trustful gaze to say * Yes.'

Very nicely done. In a sweet maidenly way,' said Lord
Carboro'. * How cleverly a woman can do that sort of
thing, making one man a shield against another. By

George I she is a queen — a woman of ^Yllom a man might be-proud.'


Eockley went sco^Yhng back, and threw himself on the
seat where Mrs. Barclay had been ; and from where he stood
Lord Carboro' looked at him sneeringly.

Old, worn out, withered as I am, handsome Eockley, if
Claire Denville became my wife, I shouldn't care a snap for
you. Ugh ! why, I must be standing just where old Teigne
was smothered. How horrible ! Pish, what matters ! Why
should I care, when her dear sister is laughing and showing
her false teeth there just where the foot of the bedstead used
to be. Sweet girlish creature ; she's ogling that fat dragoon,
and she'll marry him if she can.'

He took another pinch of snuff.

•' Hallo !' he muttered, ' Payne after that little strawberry
cream of a woman. We shall have a scandal there, as sure as
fate, and — good girl, she sees through her and cuts the
enemy out. Claire, my dear, you are indeed a little queen
among women. I've never given you half the credit you
deserve, and — damme ! — never ! — yes — no — yes ! — the scoundrel
! Well, that comes of reckless play. Curse it all, there
must not be such a scandal as this. Where's Denville?'

He looked round, but the Master of the Ceremonies had
not retired with Mrs. Barclay.

Everybody was fully engaged, laughing, flirting, or card-playing.
Assignations were being made ; money was

changing hands, and the candles were burning down and
guttering at the sides, as Lord Carboro' exclaimed :

Hang it ! I did not think he could stoop to be such a
scoundrel as that !'

MAJOR Cockles's MISTAKE.

Now, Barclay, you are a wicked flatterer,' said Lady Dree
as she sat out in the balcony, with the moneylender
leaning over her after leading her there and placing a
chair.

I shall risk being rude in my rough way,' said Barclay ina
low voice, ' and repeat my words. I said those lustrous
diamonds would look perfect on your ladyship's beautiful
throat.'

Now, you don't mean it, Barclay. I am not so young
as I was, and my throat is not beautiful now.'

There, I'm a plain man,' said Barclay ; ' I've no time for
fine sayings and polished phrases, and what I say is this :
I know your ladyship must be forty.'

Yes, Barclay, I am,' said Lady Drelincourt, with a
sigh.

I'm fifty-five,' he said, ' and what I say is, how a woman
with a skin like yours can utter such deprecatory sentiments

is a puzzle. Why, half the women here would be proud of
such a skin. Look how they paint. Pah !'

They do, Barclay ; they do. Are the diamonds of good
water ?'

Look,' he said, holding them before him.

No, no ; some one in the room will see.'

I'll take care of that, my lady. Look at them. I aren't
tell you whom they once belonged to, but they came to me
through accidents at the gaming-table. They are perfect in
match and size. Lady Drelincourt, you would not be doing
yourself justice if you did not buy them. I wish I dare
clasp them on.'

'No, no ; not now. How much did you say ?'

I am giving them away at four hundred guineas, Lady
Drelincourt.'

Oh, but that's a terrible price, Barclay !'
'They will be worth more in a year or two, Lady
Drelincourt.'

Oh, but I could not spare so much money.'

Pooh ! what of that ! If your ladyship likes the

diamonds '

I do like them, Barclay.'

I should be happy to give your ladyship what credit you
require.'

'Eeally, this is very naughty of me, Barclay; it is,
indeed, but I suppose I must have them. There, slip

them into my hand. You can send me the case tomorrow.'


I will, my lady. You'll never regret the pm-chase, and
I am delighted that they will be worn by the queen of
Saltinville society.'

Go away, flatterer, and tell Sir Matthew Bray to bring
me my salts. I left them on the chimney-piece.'

I fly,' said Barclay ; and he went through the rooms to
perform this commission. Sir Matthew hurrying to get to her
ladyship's side, while Barclay turned to meet his wife who
was just returning with their host.

'Hallo!'

Oh, I am so much better now, Jo-si-ah. I was so
faint.'

Ah, Dem-ille, I want a word with you,' said Lord Carboro',
coming up box in hand.

I say, old lady,' whispered Barclay, ' got that bracelet
safe ?'

Oh, yes, that's all right ; but you can't have it.'
'Why not?'

Because it's right down at the very bottom of my pocket,
where there's no getting at it at all. But you don't want ifc
now ?'

Xo. I've sold the diamond necklace.'

No r

I have, to that old hag, Drelincom^t.'

Did she pay you ?'

No ; but we've got deeds worth four times as much, and
I shall charge her interest until she pays.'

Then you've had a splendid night, Jo-si-ah.'

Glorious !' he said, rubbing his hands.

Then I want a rubber of whist, and I shall see if I can't
win a few guineas myself.'

All right. I'll get you to a table.'

Denville, old fellow,' said Lord Carboro', chatting with
his host and taking snuff from the box given by the Prince,
I've a bad habit of seeing everything that goes on around
me.'

Your lordship is most observant.'

I'm sorry to say I am; and whether we become relatives
or not, Denville, I take an interest in you and your belongings.'


The Master of the Ceremonies looked up in alarm.

Take a bit of good advice, Denville.'
My lord !'

And keep a tighter rein over your daughter.'

Your lordship's opinions seem to change easily,' said
Denville bitterly. * The other day my daughter Claire '

Pooh ! Absurd, man ! Stop. She is perfect. A princess
could not have been a more charming hostess. I did not
mean her. Look there !'

Mrs. Burnett with Sir Harry Payne ?'

Yes ; the fellow's a blackguard. The little woman
married a fool '

'My lord!'

Who neglects her for drink and play. Don't be offended,
Denville. I am your friend. You have had scandal enough
in your family ; you must have no more.'

Dem-ille drew a long breath.

Your lordship is right ; but you must not misunderstand
my dear child.'

Pretty, sweet, young, and most impressionable, Denville.
Constant dropping will wear a stone. Don't let the water
di'op on it any more.'

My lord, you may trust me.'

Stop, Danville. Another thing in confidence. You must
get it back, treating it all as an error.'

My lord, you alarm me. Get it back?'

I can't help it, Denville. Do you know that sometimes
dashing fellows, ruined by play, have gone on the road
mounted and masked, and, pistol in hand, have robbed ?'

Yes, my lord. But we have no highwaymen here.'

Don't be too sure. Did you know that Barclay, at my
wish, brought some jewellery ?'

Y'es, but not at my wish, my lord ! I felt aggrieved —
insulted.'

Forgive him and me. It was at my request. I wanted
to make an offering — a string of pearls — to your daughter ;

and like the sweet true lady she is, she has refused to
accept them.'

Denville flushed and turned pale as he glanced proudly at
his child, where she stood talking to Colonel Mellersh.

I saw Barclay give his wife a case with a diamond
bracelet in it, to hold while he went to old Drelin-
court.'

Yes, my lord. What of that ?'

Mrs. Barclay did not put it in her pocket, but let it slip
down on the carpet.'

Where was she seated, my lord ?'

Never mind ; the diamond bracelet was found.'

Thank goodness !' gasped Denville.

By Major Eockley.'

Who gave it back ?'

No ; who has pocketed it, and will keep it ; while Barclay
will most likely credit you.'

Impossible, my lord !'

Possible, Denville. I tell you there must be no more
robberies here. Hang it, man, stand up.'

A sudden giddiness, my lord. I am better now. I will
get the jewels back. But, one moment, my lord, are you
really quite sure?'

I am certain.'

But Major Eockley may mean '

Hush, Denville. What do you know of handsome

Eockley? Do you think he will give the jewels back if he
can get them away? Act ; at once.'

Suppose he is wrong,' said Denville to himself, as he
went off on his painful task. ' What an insult to an ofScer
the Prince's friend.'

I dare not do it,' he said after a pause. ' It must be
some mistake. Such an act would be the work of a common
thief. He must be wrong.'

He shrank from his task, but he felt that it must be done,
for how could he let it go forth that there had been another
diamond robbery from his house. It was impossible.

As he hesitated he caught sight of Lord Carboro' watching
him. Barclay too was there, evidently about to speak to
him, and he felt that he must. Better to offend Major Cockle
than have another scandal.

He mingled among his guests with a word here and there,
sending some downstairs, and interfering in a tete-tete
between May and Sir Harry Payne, who had at last won a
promise from the giddy little creature to whom he was paying
couii:. He then went up to Eockley, snuff-box in hand, and
addressed him as he was leaning against the chimney-piece.

I'm afraid our little reunion has no charms for you,
Major Eockley,' he said.

On the contrary, my dear Dem-ille, I am delighted.'

But you have had no refreshment. Pray come down.'

Without a lady ?'

VOL. II. 21

Yes, without a lady. Or, no, I will speak now, and you
can go afterwards. A little mistake. Major Eockley. You'll
pardon me ; a little mistake.'

His heart sank as he spoke, and he trembled almost guiltily
at the task he had in hand.

The Major's dark eyes flashed as he scowled at him.

If you mean, sir, that by addressing '

'No, no, Major Eockley ; a little mistake. You thought
you dropped your snuff-box.'

I thought I dropped my snuff-box, sir? Are you mad?'

You'll pardon me. Major Eockley, no. You made a mistake
; it is my duty to see the matter right. You imagined
that you dropped your snuff-box, and you picked it up, when
you were seated a little while ago.'

Well, sir ?'

If Lord Carboro' had made a mistake, how dare he meet
that man again ?

You do not seem to understand me. Major Eockley.
The case you picked up was not a snuff-box, but contained
jewels belonging to one of my guests.'

I did not know your guests carried their jewels in cases,
Mr. Denville,' said the Major, with a forced laugh. * They
seem to be wearing them.'

It is so easy to make a mistake. Major Eockley,' continued
the M.C., on finding that it was more simple to attack
iihan he had expected.

I never make mistakes, sir,' said the Major haughtily.

I should not have spoken to you like this, sir, if the act
lead not been seen,' said Dem-ille, angrily now.

Act ? Seen ? Good heavens, sir ! Do you take me fora
thief ?' said Eockley, in a hoarse whisper. ' Do you think
why — confound ! I am astounded !'

He had been angrily thrusting a hand into first one and
then another pocket, bringing out a snuff-box, then a handkerchief,
and lastly the little morocco case.

That must be it. Major Eockley,' said the M.C. coldly ;
and their eyes met with a curiously long stare.

As you say, Mr. Den-ville, mistakes are so easily made.
I am in your debt for this — I shall never forget it. You will
excuse me now, I am sm-e. The little matter has agitated
me more than I should care to own.'

The M.C. bowed.

Seen, you said, I think ? Was it you who saw me pick up
that case — by accident ?'

Xo, sir.'

Would you oblige me with the name of the person ?'

It is not necessary,' said Delle. ' I am master of the

ceremonies, sir, of my own house. This affair, I may tell

you, will be kept private by us both.'

Major Eockley bowed and turned to gaze round the room,

to see if he could select Den^^ille's informant ; but there was

no one whom he felt ready to blame but Eichard Linnell —

2-1- 2

Barclay he knew it could not be — or was it that handsome
Cora Dean?

He turned again close by the door, and tried to catch Claire
Denville's eyes ; but she was talking gravely to Linnell, so,
half bowing to Denville, he said quietly :

Thank you for excusing me. Of course, I rely upon the
discretion of yourself and friend. Adieu.'

Adieu !' and he left with curses and deadly threats in his
breast.

Had man ever such luck !' he hissed, as he strode by the
house, glancing up at the well-Ht balcony and drawing-room,
from which he turned with an involuntary shudder. * Curse
the old idiot, but I'll serve him out for this presently I
wonder whether the old dancing-master cares for his
girl and boy ? Well,' he added, with a peculiar smile, * we
shall soon see.'

AT THE Caen-TABLE.

Friends ?' EicliarcT Linnell was saying, as he stood looking
earnestly at Claire. ' Nothing more ?'

No,' she said, in a low, sad voice ; ' always, come what
may, yom' grateful friend.'

She tm-ned to her sister, who was watching her, and met
her with :

Claire dear, you're going mad. That man hasn't a penny.'

Well?' said Claire gravely.

And you are encouraging him.'

As you are encouraging Sir Harry Payne ? No, May ;
you are mistaken.'

I declare if you are going to insult me I will not stay,
cried May, turning scarlet. * It is disgraceful. It is cruel.
If I could only find Frank '

Just then a loud burst of angry voices came from one of
the card-tables. It was eleven o'clock ; there had been
refreshments ; the room was very hot, and the play, for

ladies, high ; and now the voice of the Master of the Ceremonies
was heard in protest.

Ladies — ladies — I beg — I must request '

Order my carriage directly, Sir Matthew. It serves me.
right for coming to such a place,' cried Lady Drelincourt.

Yes ; you had no business here,' cried Mrs. Barclay.

And mixing with such low people,' cried Lady Drehn-
court.

Low people ? Better be low than not honest.'
Oh ! oh ! — Denville, are you going to allow this insult to
my face — from such a woman as that ?' cried Lady Drelin-
court.

Hush, ladies ! Pray — pray !' cried Denville.

Hold your tongue and come away, old lady,' said Barclay,
in a croaking whisper.

I won't, Jo-si-ah; not till she pays me my four guineas,.
I declare,' cried Mrs. Barclay aloud. * She's been doing
nothing but cheat and rook ever since I sat down to
play.'

Sir Matthew Bray, my carriage.'

And gone on shameful, and pretending it was all mistakes.
I declare it's abominable.'

Ladies — ladies !'

Will you be quiet, old girl ? Hold your tongue.'

I will not, Josiah,' cried Mrs. Barclay, who, like many
good-tempered, amiable women, took a great deal to make

her angry, but when she was really excited, was not to be
suppressed. ' What I say is '

Oh— oh— oh— oh !'

A series of wild, hysterical cries from a couch in the front
room, and Claire ran gladly from the painful scene to where
her sister was in a violent hysterical fit, which, with the exit
of Lady Drelincourt on Sir Matthew Bray's arm, after a
withering glance round, quite stopped Mrs. Barclay's vituperative
attack.

Think of that now,' cried the latter lady. ' Me again. I
ought not to come out.'

That you oughtn't,' growled Barclay. ' Next thing will
be you've lost that bracelet.'

Nonsense, Josiah. Let me help you, Claire dear. I am
so sorry, but that wretched cheating old woman was either
kicking me under the table in mistake for that Sir Matthew
Bray, or else cheating. I am so — so sorry. It's 'sterricks,
that's what it is.'

Yes, that's what it is,' said Mrs. Dean ; ' and if I might
say a word, I should tell Mr. Demdlle that he couldn't do
better than behave like Lady Macbeth.'

Oh, mother !' whispered Cora impatiently.

Now what's the good of you " oh mothering " me, my dear?
What could be better than for Mr. Denville to say to his
guests, "Don't be on the order of your going, but go at
once?'

Miss Dean,' said Sir Harry, ' your mamma speaks the
words of wisdom. It is the wisest thing. Come, gentlemen, we
can be of no service here. By Jove, she does it to perfection.'

Mrs. Dean's words broke up the party, and the visitors had
nearly all gone, when, in answer to cold bathing and smell"
king-salts, Mrs. Burnett began to recover ; and just then Frank
Burnett, who had been, no one but Isaac knew where, came
up to make a fresh scene as he threw himself upon his knees
beside the couch, imploring in maudlin tones his darling May
to speak and tell him what it was.

Oh, my head, my head !' sobbed the stricken wife. ' My
head, my head !'

You'd better let her be, Mr. Burnett, sir,' said Mrs. Barclay.
* It's my belief that quiet's the thing.'

Yes, and we'll go,' said Mrs. Dean. * Good-night, Miss
Denville. Good-night, Mr. Denville, and thank you so much.
Come, Cora, love.'

Cora Dean glanced at Eichard Linnell and Mellersh as she
advanced to say good-night ; for they were going to the same
house, and it was possible, as the distance was short, that
they would see them home.

Good-night, Mr. Denville,' she said.

We will say good-night too,' said Mellersh, 'unless we
can be of any use.'

Oh, no,' said their host. ' She will soon be better — a
mere trifle.'

Yes, please let me be,' said Mrs. Burnett. ' I shall soon
he better now.'

Good-night,' said Cora, holding out her hand to the
woman she told herself she hated with all her heart.

But it was in a spirit of triumph, for Eichard Linnell was
going to walk home with her.

Good-night,' said Claire, smiling in her face with a calm
ingenuous look. ' I am glad we have met.'

How it came about they neither of them knew, but it was
Claire's seeking ; she was suffering so from that heart
hunger — that painful searching for the love and sympathy
of some woman of her age, while Cora Dean's handsome face
was so near to her, and she kissed her as one sister might
another.

Well, I never,' muttered Mrs. Dean as she went down
the stairs. ' Think of that, and you as don't like her.'

The next minute Cora Dean and her mother were walking
along the Parade with Linnell and Mellersh on either side,
chatting about the evening.

One cigar, Dick, before we go to bed,' said Mellersh,
when they had been sitting together in his room for sometime,
after parting from their upstairs neighbours.

I'm willing,' said Linnell, ' for I feel as if I could not
sleep.'

They ht their cigars, let themselves out, strolled down to
the edge of the water, walked along by it in front of the

Parade, and went upon the cliff again, to go back silently
along the path till they neared the house where they had
passed the evening, walking very slowly, and ending by
stopping to lean over the cliff rails and gaze out to sea.

How long this had lasted they did not know, but all at
once, as Mellersh turned, he gripped Richard Linnell by the
arm and pointed.

Linnell saw it at the same moment : the figure of a man
climbing over a balcony ; and as they watched they could
just see the gleam of one of the windows as it was evidently
opened and he passed in.

Dick !' whispered Mellersh ; ' what does that mean?'

The same as the night that poor old woman was slain.
Quick ! Come on !'

Stop !' said Mellersh. * Here's another !'

MES. Burnett's Seizure.

I THINK we had better go too,' said Mrs. Barclay at last.

But are you quite sure we can do no good ?'

No : indeed no, Mrs. Barclay ; and I am so much obliged
to you for staying,' replied Claire.

It was the least I could do, my dear, after making all
that miserable rumpus about a few paltry guineas. Your
papa will never forgive me.'

Indeed, there is nothing to forgive, my dear Mrs. Barclay.
It was natural that you should be indignant,' said
Denville politely.

Thank you very much for saying so, but it's always the
way if I go out, and I shouldn't be at all surprised if there's
something else wrong,' cried Mrs. Barclay piteously. ' I'm
a most unfortunate creature.'

There, put on your things and let's go,' said Barclay
huffily. ' Give me that case. I'll carry it now, or you'll
lose that.'

Mrs. Barclay began to thrust her hand into her pocket,
and Denville was talking to his son-in-law at the other end
of the room, while Claire bent over and kissed her
sister.

Are you better now, dear ?'

No — o ! Oh, my head ! — my head !'

My daring !' cried Burnett, coming back and bringing
with him a strong smell of cigars and bad wine.

Don't, Frank. Don't you see how ill I am ?'

Yes, yes, my own, but the carriage is waiting. Let me
help you down, and let's go home.'

Oh ! My gracious ! Oh !' shrieked Mrs. Barclay.

'Oh! — oh! — oh! — oh!' sobbed May Burnett, again in a
worse fit than before.

Now you've done it again,' cried Barclay angrily. * There
never was such a woman. Here, come along home.'

The case — the bracelet, Jo-si-ah !'

'Well. What about it ?'

I knew something would happen. I felt it coming.'

Stop ! Where's that diamond bracelet, woman ?'

It's gone, Jo-si-ah. I've lost it. It's gone.'

A two hundred pound bracelet, and gone !' roared Barclay.
'Eh, what? Thank ye, Denville. How did you
come by it ?'

Denville, who was standing in a graceful attitude, smilingly
offering the case, explained that Mrs. Barclay had let it fall

beneath the seat when she thought that she was placing it
in her pocket.

Oh, Mr. Dem-ille,' cried Mrs. Barclay, ' you are a dear
good man !'

Denville ! Thank ye !' said Barclay, shaking hands.
You might have stuck to that, and I should have been no
riser. I shan't forget this. Good-night, old man, goodnight.'


Coarse, but very kindly,' said Dem^ille, after Mrs. Barclay
had made Claire's face wet with tears and kisses, and
he had seen the pair to the door.

'Yes,' said Burnett ; 'they're a rough couple. Come,
May, no nonsense. Get up. I'm not going to have my
horses kept waiting all night.'

May made an effort to rise, but sank back, sobbing hysterically
:

My head ! — my head !'

Here, give her some brandy, Claire,' cried Burnett.

Xo, no, no. It makes it worse.'

Well, it will be better tomorrow. Come along.'

Xo, no, I cannot bear it. Oh, my head ! — my
head 1'

Let me bathe it with the eau de Cologne,' said Claire
tenderly.

Xo, no. I cannot bear it.'

Then come home,' cried Burnett.

No, no,' moaned his wife. * I'm so ill — so ill. Papa —
couldn't I stay here to-night — my own old little room ?'
Yes, yes, my darling,' said Denville tenderly.
I am so ill, papa. My head throbs so if I move it.'

Let her stay, Frank,' said Claire sympathizing.

Not I. What! go home without her? I'll be hanged
if I do !' cried Burnett pettishly. * She'll be all right as
soon as she gets out into the air. Now, May, jump up.'

He caught her by the arm, but May uttered a wail.

Frank, dear, you are cruel,' said Claire.

You mind your own business,' said the irritable little
fellow sharply. ' She has got to come home with me.'

I — I — I can't, Frank. I am so ill.'

Nonsense ! Sick headache. I often have them. You've
taken too much wine.'

She has not had any, Frank,' said Claire indignantly.


Then she ought to have had some. That's the reason.
You hold your tongue. Now, madam, jump up.'

The M.C. had stood looking on, with his face working,
but saying no word till now that Burnett caught his wife
roughly by both hands and tried to pull her to her feet.

Stop !' he cried firmly. * Eeally, Frank Burnett, you
are ungentle in the extreme.'

Here, I know what I'm doing,' he retorted. * She's my
wife.'

And she's my daughter, sh,' cried Demille haughtily ;
and while I am by no half-tipsy man shall insult her.'

Half tipsy ? Who's half tipsy ? This is the result of
coming here, sir.'

Where I have been on thorns for the last two hours, lest
my guests should see what a state you were in.'

State ? What do you mean ?'

I will not expose you more before your young wife,' said
Demille quietly. ' We are both angry, and had better say
good-night. May, do you feel well enough to go home ?'

Xo ; oh no, papa.'

You hear, Frank Bm-nett. Claire, you can easily get
her bedroom ready.'

'Look here, I shan't stay,' cried Burnett. 'I shan't
stay here.'

Well, go home then. We will take care of her, you may
depend.'

It's all nonsense. She shall come home.'

My child is not well enough to go home,' retorted
Deny-ille.

Frank dear, don't be obstinate, for May's sake,' said
Claire. ' There, go home, dear. I'll get her to bed soon,
and she'll be better in the morning.'

Burnett looked from one to the other with his teeth set,
and was about to bm'st out into an angry tirade ; but he
meet the firm, cold gaze of his father-in-law fixed upon him.

and it was irresistible. It literally looked him down ; and,
With an impatient cm^se, he left the house and banged the door.

Directly after they heard the rattle of carriage-wheels,
and May uttered a sigh of relief as she watched the M.C.
walk round the room extinguishing the candles.

Oh, papa dear,' she sobbed, * he does behave so badly tome!'


My child !' said Denville sadly, as he bent down and
kissed her. * You are weary and excited to-night. Pray
say no more.'

He left the room, and went downstairs to bid the servants
leave everything till morning, and go to bed ; and as the
door closed Claire knelt down beside her sister, and laid her
hand upon her burning forehead.

'That's nice,' sighed May; and then she sat up suddenly,
glanced round, and flung her arms round Claire's neck to
hide her face in her breast, and burst into a passionate fit of
sobbing.

Oh, hush, hush. May, my darling,' whispered Claire
tenderly, as she kissed and caressed the pretty little head,
which was jerked up again in an angry, spasmodic way.

You saw — you heard,' she cried, with her face flushed
and her eyes flashing, as she talked in a quick, low, excited
manner. * You blamed me for loving poor Louis. Why, he
was all that was gentle and kind. He loved me in his fierce
Italian way, and he was so jealous that he would have killed

me if I had given him cause. But so tender and loving ;
while this nasty, hateful little Frank '

May : oh, hush !'

I won't hush. I hate him. I despise him. A mean,
shabby, spiteful little wretch ! You saw him to-night. He
pinched me, and wrung my wrists. He often hurts me.'

May '.—May !'

It's true. He strikes me, too ; and I tell you I hate him.'

May ! Your husband, whom you have sworn to honour
and love !'

And I don't either, and I never shall,' cried May sharply.

You must, you must, May, my darling. There, there ;
you are flushed and excited with your head being so bad,
and Frank was not so gentle as he might have been. He
was vexed because you had turned ill.'

Nasty, fretful wretch !'

May !'

I don't care ; he is,' cried the little foolish thing, looking
wonderfully like an angry child as she spoke.

Hush ! I will not let you speak of your husband like
that. May.'

Husband ! A contemptible little tipsy wretch who
bought me of papa because I was pretty. I loathe him, I
tell you. Papa ought to have been ashamed of himself for
selHng me as he did.'

'May! May! little sister !' said Claire, weeping silently
VOL. II. 25

as she drew her baby head to her bosom, and tried to stay
the flow of bitter words that came.

Horses and carriages, and servants and dresses, and
nothing else but misery. I tell you — I don't care ! If he
ever beats me again I'll run away from him, that I
will.'

No, no, little passionate, tender heart,' said Claire
lovingly. * You are ill and troubled to-night. There, there.
You shall sleep quietly to-night under the old roof. Why,
May dear, it seems like the dear old times, and you are the
little girl again whom I am going to undress and put to bed.
There, you are better now.'

Old times ? "What, of misery and poverty and wretchedness,
and having servants that you cannot pay, and struggling
to keep up appearances, and all for what ?'

Oh, hush, hush, little May !' said Claire, holding her to
her breast, and half sadly, half playfully, rocking herself to
and fro.

You don't know what trouble is. You don't know what
it is to have your tenderest feelings torn. You never knew
what it was to suffer as I have. I hate him.'

She could not see Claire's ghastly face, nor the agonized
twitching of the nerves about her lips which her sister was
striving to master.

No one knows what I have had to suffer,' she went on ;
and it's too hard — it's too hard to bear. No one loves meno

one cares for me. It's all misery and wretchedness, and
and I wish I was dead.'

No, no, no, darling,' said Claire, as she drew the sobbing
little thing closer to her breast ; * don't say that. I love
you dearly, my own sister, and it breaks my heart to see
you unhappy. But there, there, you are so weary and ill
to-night that it makes everything look so black. I suffer
too, darling, for your sake — for all our sakes, and now I
will not scold you.'

Scold me ?' cried May, in affright.

No, not one word ; only pray to you to be careful of
Yom dear, sweet little self. My darling, I am so proud of
my beautiful little sister. You will not be frivolous again,
and give me so much pain ?'

N — no,' sighed May, with her face buried in her sister's
breast.

Frank '

Don't — don't speak of him.'

Yes, yes ; he is your husband, and you must try to win
him over to you by gentleness, instead of being a little angry
tyrant.'

Clau-y !'

Yes, but you can be,' said Claire playfully, as she pressed
her Hps upon the soft, flossy hair. ' I can remember how
these little hands used to beat at me, and the little tearful

eyes flash anger at me in the old times.'

25—2

Just then Denville entered the room softly, with a weary
dissatisfied air ; but, as he stood in the doorway unnoticed,
his whole aspect changed, and the tears stood in his eyes.

God bless them !' he said fervently ; and then, as he saw
May raise her head, and look excitedly in her sister's face,
he stepped forward.

Well, little bird,' he said, bending down to kiss May's
forehead, * back once more in the old nest ?'

Claire looked searchingly at him as she rose from her
knees ; and then she sighed as she saw May fling herself
into her father's arms.

There, there, I shall make the head ache again,' he said,
with a calm, restful smile upon his lips, such as Claire had
not seen for months.

How he loves her !' she thought ; and then another idea
flashed through her breast. Suppose May knew !

Claire, my child, is her room ready ?'

Yes ; Morton's room is prepared in case he came back.
She will sleep there unless — May, will you come to me ?'

Yes, yes,' cried the little girlish thing, in a quick excited
way. ' No, no ; I'll be alone. Let me go now — at once.'

Claire fetched and gave her a lighted candle, finding her
clinging passionately to her father, looking, as it seemed to
the thoughtful woman, like some frightened child.

She kissed him hastily, and seemed to snatch the candle
from her sister's hand.

Good-night, Claire,' she cried, holding up her face, and
changing tightly to her sister's arm.

I am going with you, dear — as I used to in the old times,'
said Claire, smiling ; and they left the room together.

Without one word to me,' said Den\alle, as he stood
with clasped hands gazing at the door. ' Well, why should
I be surprised? What must I be in her sight? Her
father ! Yes, but a monster without pity — utterly vile.'

He heaved a piteous sigh, as he sank into a chair.

No,' he said to himself, ' I "v^oll not influence her in anyway.
I v,ill not stir. It would be too cruel. But if — if
she should lean towards him — who knows ? — women have
accepted the wealth and position such as he offers. No, I
will not stir.'

He sighed again, walked to the drawing-room window to
see that the bar was across the shutter ; and, this done, he
turned hastily and gazed back into the room that had been
Lady Teigne's chamber, and as he did so the dew stood
upon his forehead, for he seemed to see the bed with its
dragged curtains, the empty casket on the floor, and by it
the knife that he had picked up and hidden in his breast.

Yes, there it all was, and Claire standing gazing at him
with that horrified look of suspicion in her beautiful face, as
the thought came which had placed an icy barrier between
them ever since. Yes, there she was, staring at him so
wildly, and it was like a horrible nightmare, and

Father— are you ill ?'

Claire ! Is it you ? No, no ; nothing the matter.
Tired; wearied out. So long and anxious an evening.
Good-night !'

She had come in to find him staring back into that room
in a half cataleptic state ; and the sight of his ghastly face
brought all back to her. For a few moments she could not
move, but at last, by an effort, she spoke, and he seemed tone
snatched back by her voice into life and action.

Good-night, father,' she said, trembling as she read the
agonies of a conscious-stricken soul in his countenance,,
and she was moving towards the door, when, with an
agonized cry, he turned to her.

Claire, my child, must it be always so ?' he cried, as he-clasped
his hands towards her as if in prayer.

Father 1' she said, in a voice almost inaudible from
emotion.

Claire, my child,' he moaned, as he sank upon his knees
before her : * you do not know the burden I have ta
bear.'

She did what she had not done for months, as she stood
trembling before him ; laid one hand upon his head, while
her lips parted as if to speak, but they only quivered and no
words came.

At last, with a sobbing cry, she flung herself upon his
neck, and he clasped her in his arms.

Not to me, father,' she sobbed, * not to me ; I am not
your judge.'

No,' he said softly, as he reverently kissed her brow ;
you are not my judge.'

His hips parted to speak again, but he shook this head,
Tvliile a sad smile came into and brightened his countenance.


The load is Halter, Claire,' he said softly. * No, you are
not my judge. If you were you would not condemn me unheard,
and I cannot — dare not speak.'

He led her towards the door, and stood watching her as
she passed upstairs and out of sight, turning her face to
him once before she closed the door.

The sweet pure angel and good genius of my home,' he
said softly, with bent head, and with a calmer, more
restful look in his countenance he went slowly to his own
room.

All was soon dark and silent in the house so lately busy
with the noise and buzz of many guests. Five minutes had
not clasped when the door was softly pushed open, and a
slight little figure entered, and crossed to the window.

The noise made was very slight, as the swinging bar
across the shutters was Hated and lowered, one of the
shutters folded back, the fastening raised, and the window
pushed ajar.

The ficmre stood in the semi-darkness in the attitude of

one listening, and then drew back with a peculiar sigh as of
one drawing in breath.

A couple of minutes passed, and then there was a scraping,
rustling noise outside, the semi-darkness was deepened by a
figure in the balcony, the window was drawn outwards, and
a man passed in, whispering :

May — sweet — are you there ?'

A faintly uttered sigh was the response, and quick as
thought the French window was closed, a step or two taken
into the silent drawing-room, and May Burnett was tightly
clasped in the arms of the nocturnal intruder.

My darling !'

No, no. Now one word, and you must go,' she whispered
quickly. * I have done as I promised ; now keep your word
to stay only one minute — say one word and go.'

And I will keep it,' he cried, ' my beautiful little love,
my Damnation !'

May started from his arms, for at that moment there was
a thundering knock at the front door, and a violent drag at
the bell.

FOR HER sister's SAKE.

Oh, go — go quickly,' cried May excitedly. ' It is my husband
come back ; what shall I do ?'

Stop !' cried Sir Harry. ' Listen !'

Xo, no ; they are knocking again. My father will hear.'
'But '

No, no, you must not stay. Go,' she panted, and as she
spoke, in her hurry and alarm, she pushed him towards the
window.

Confound it all !' he muttered, as he opened it softly.
Pray, pray be quick,' she cried. * Oh, do — do go.'

Impossible !' he whispered back. * They would see.
Hide me.'

I can't — I can't.'

You must. Somewhere here.'

Xo, no ! You must go. Oh, what shall I do ? I am
lost — undone.'

Hush, little woman ! Be calm,' he said in a hoarse

whisper. ' I don't know much about this house. Here, I
will go downstairs.'

But you cannot ; the footman will see you.'

Then, curse it all, hide me upstairs,' cried Sir Harry
impatiently.

My father — my sister — what shall I do ! — Oh !'

That was all the visitor heard, and the faint cry that
ended the sentence was drowned in a second tremendous
peal at knocker and bell.

Confound her ! she's gone. May ! hist ! — May ! — Don't
leave me like this !'

He felt about for the door, but could not find it in his
dread and confusion. Only one part of the room could he
make out, and that was the window, by which flight was
impossible without being seen.

Little wretch !' he muttered. ' What a fool I am \
Where is the cursed door ? There were three here somewhere.
What the devil am I to do ? Curse '

He kicked against a chair, and nearly knocked it over, and
then stumbled against a couch.

The door must be here somewhere,' he muttered. * Yes,
there.'

It was plain enough where the door was now, for a light
shone beneath it, and the sides looked light, showing its
shape, just as another peal came from knocker and bell.

He had just time to drop down behind the sofa when the

door opened, and the Master of the Ceremonies appeared in
his lone dressing-gown, candle in hand, crossed the drawing-room,
and, opening the farther door, went through, and it
swung to, leaving the intruder once more in darkness.

He started up again as he heard the rattle of locks and
bolts below, and made for the window, meaning to escape
by it as soon as those who had alarmed the house had
entered.

'Curse him! Mellersh left to watch,' he muttered, as
voices were heard from below — loud and angry voices —
mingled with those of remonstrance.

I tell you we saw a man climb up and enter by the balcony,'
came up ; and in his alarm and horror the intruder
knocked over an ornament now, as he made for the door
that led to the bedrooms — his last chance of escaping
unseen.

Ah, there she is,' he said beneath his breath, as the door
v\-as made visible once more by the rays of light all round.

Come up, then, and I will search the place,' came from
below.

Don't be alarmed : I'm going to see,' said a voice outside
the door leading to the upper staircase ; and the next moment
the door opened, and Claire, in her white dressing-gown, entered
candle in hand.

Sir Harry Payne 1' she cried, as the light fell on the figure
of the visitor.

Hush ! For heaven's sake, quick ! Hide me somewhere.
Quick ! Before it is too late.'

He had caught her by the arm and laid one hand upon her
lips ; and as she was trying to release herself, the other door
opened, and Denville entered, closely followed by Frank
Burnett and Eichard Linnell.

Claire ! Sir Harry Payne !' cried the Master of the
Ceremonies.

Oh, that's it, is it ?' said Burnett, with a grin. ' No
murder this time, except reputation. I had made up my
mind to come and stop to-night, as my wife's here ; but,
after this, the sooner she's out of this place the better. Here,
call her, some of you. Where's her room ?'

Claire did not speak, but stood there, as if turned to stone,
her eyes fixed upon the cold, stern face of Eichard Linnell,
as he stood back by the door.

Sir Harry Payne, speak, I insist,' cried Denville fiercely.
What does this mean ?'

Hush, sir ! Hush ! pray, gentlemen. A little bit of gallantry,
nothing more.'

Sir !' cried Denville.

Hush, sir, pray !' cried Sir Harry, who was white and
trembling with dread. * No noise — the neighbours — the
scandal. Perfectly innocent, I assure you. An assignation.
I came to see Miss Denville here.'

Claire turned her eyes slowly from Eichard Linnell, whose

look seemed to either her, and fixed them on the despicable
scoundrel, who was screening her sister before her husband,
but who would not meet her stern gaze.

I thought as much,' said Burnett, with a sneer. ' I tell
you what '

Silence !' hissed a voice in his ear, and a broad, strong
hand came down on his shoulder with a grip like a vice.

Claire saw it — the brave, true effort to defend her in her
disgrace, and she lifted her eyes once more to Linnell's.
Then she let them close, and stood there silent, with the
sweet little girlish innocent-looking face of her sister before
her, as she stayed Hastening to the condemnation of husband
and father — little May, her father's darling — in her place.
One word would save her, would clear her in the sight of the
man who loved her, and of the father who stood sternly
there ; but she must condemn May to save herself, and she
stood there as if convicted of the shameful act.

For she spoke no word, and her sister's fame was saved.

A STAUNCH FRIEND.

No, Miss Close ; I can be angry, and I can speak my own
mind, but I'm not going to be so mean and shabby as to take
my custom somewhere else, though it is so tempting ; but
what I say is this — don't you never say a word to me again
about that young lady, or I shall fly out.'

I'm very sorry, ma'am, I'm sure, and you and Mr. Barclay
are such good customers, besides being my landlord and
landlady.'

Oh, there's nothing in that. Miss Close. You pay your
rent to the day, and, as Mr. Barclay says, it's a business
transaction.'

Of course, it's very painful to me, Mrs. Barclay, and I
shouldn't have told you what I did, only you know you cam
and asked me what people were saying.'

Well, so I did. Yes, you're right, I did. But it isn't
true. Miss Close. Miss Claire Denville is as good as gold,
and people tell most horrible stories, and where you get to

know so much I can't think. But does everybody talk
about it?'

Yes, ma'am, everybody; and Mr. and Mrs. Burnett
haven't been there since.'

I don't care : I won't believe it. And is it a fact that she
goes regularly to Fisherman Miggles's to see that little girl?'
Yes, ma'am, regularly.'

Then she has a good reason for it. There !'

It's a terrible blow for Mr. Den\alle, of course, ma'am ;
and they say the young gentleman who has only just joined
the dragoons is horribly put out, and challenged Sir Harry
Payne, only the Colonel would not let them fight.'

Dear — dear — dear ! Poor Denville ! he has nothing but
misfortunes. I am sorry for him ; I am indeed. Well, I
must go : but mind this. Miss Close : Claire Denville is a
particular friend of mine, and no one shall say ill of her in
my presence.'

There was a very strong resemblance to a ruffled hen,
whose chickens had been looked at by a strange cat, in Mrs.
Barclay's aspect as she left Miss Close's, while, at her aunt's
command, Annie, the bun-faced, moved a Berlin wool pattern
on one side in the window so that she could command a view
of the Parade from the bulging panes, and after watching
there for a few minutes she said :

She's gone by, auntie.'

Ah, with all her fuss, she daren'tkeep up the acquaintance.'

She has turned back and gone in, auntie.'

Oh, very well, just as she likes; it is no business of mine.*
Annie, the innocent, was quite right, for Mrs. Barclay had

walked by the Danville', and then stopped short, indignant
with herself ; turned back and given a good bold rap at the
door, to which Isaac, who looked discontented and strange,
replied, and said, before he was asked :
Not at home.'

Now don't you talk nonsense to me, young man,' said
Mrs. Barclay, * because '

My master and mistress are — not — at '

Isaac began to drag his works towards the last, for Mrs.
Barclay was rummaging in her reticule for a half-crown, but
could only find a good old-fashioned crown, which she slipped
into the footman's hand.

To a man-servant who was beginning to look upon his
arrears of wages as doubtful, a crown-piece was a coin not
to be despised, and he took it and smiled.

Mr. Denville is out, I suppose, isn't he ?'

Yes, ma'am.'

Well, I don't want to see him, but just you go and ask
Miss Claire to see me, and if she says no, you say I must see
her. There !'

The result was that Mrs. Barclay was shown into the
drawing-room, where Claire rose to meet her with cold
dignity, and pointed to a chair.

Instead of taking it, Mrs. Barclay caught the girl in her
arms, and gave her rapidly some half-dozen hearty kisses.

There, my dear,' she said, * if every bit as I've heard was
quite true, I should have come all the same ; but as I don't
believe one single syllable of the pack o' lies, I've come to
see you. There !'

That there came like an expiration of the breath as she
plumped herself down, and the next minute Claire was upon
her knees, her armes round the wide waist, and her face
buried in the extensive bosom, sobbing violently, and re-heeding
herself in tears of the pressure that had been crushing
her down ever since the troubles of that terrible
night.

That's right, my darling : you cry — cry hard. A good
cup o' tea and a good cry's the greatest blessings o' Providence
for us poor suffering women. No, no : you needn't
put a hankychy between. My Jo-si-ah never stints me in
dresses, and you may spoil a dozen of 'em if that'll do you
any good.'

'Mrs. Barclay — Mrs. Barclay!'

No, no, no : you're going to take and try and explain and
a lot more of it ; but I won't hear a word. I tell you I
don't believe nothing of what's about. I said if Miss Claire
Demille did this or that, she had good reason, being like the
mother of that family, as even manages her poor father, so
I don't want to hear no lying scandal.'

VOL. II. 26

Heaven bless you !' sobbed Claire, kissing her.

Ah, that's nice,' said Mrs. Barclay, smiling. ' My little
girl died, my dear, as would have been as old as you. Not
like you, of course, but it seems as if she might have kissed
me like that. I'm a very vulgar sort of woman, I know, my
dear, well enough : and if I didn't I soon should, with people
sneering at me as they do. You ain't sorry I came?'

Sorry? I can never say how it has touched me.'

I'm very glad of it, for I don't want to know. And now,
not another word about all that, for I know everything, and
how all the people are cutting you and your poor pa. But
never you mind, my dear. Lots of the people you knew
were very fine weather friends, such as run away as soon asa
storm blows. You've got a clear conscience, so don't you
take on about it, but live it down.'

I shall try to,' said Claire, with a smile — the first that
had been seen on her face for days.

It's what I often say to my Jo-si-ah, though I haven't
got a clear conscience through Barclay's money transactions,
which ought to be on his, but as I keep his books, and know
everything, they trouble me all the same. So everybody's
cutting you, eh ?'

Yes,' said Claire sadly.

Then you cut them till they beg your pardon. And now
my dear, just one word from a simple plain woman, whose
heart's in the right place. If you want some one to confide

in, or you want help of any kind, you know where Betsey
Barclay Ives, and that's where there's help, whether it's a
kind word, a cup o' tea, or some one that you can put your
aims round and cry upon, and whose pm'se is open to you,
if you'll excuse me for mentioning it.'

[Miss Dean, ma'am,' said Isaac, opening the door.

Not at '

Which I thought you were receiving, ma'am,' said Isaac
in defence.

Mrs. Barclay rose to go, but Claire laid a hand upon her
arm, and she resumed her seat as Cora Dean entered,
elaborately dressed, and exchanged a most formal contest
as the visitor rose once more.

Cora could not have explained her visit, even to herself.
She hated Claire : she loved her. She was triumphant over
her faU : she was sorry for her. She was certain that she
would no longer find in her a rival, and in spite of this, she
felt a curious sensation of soreness of heart.

She who had for a couple of years past been slighted by
the fashionable folk of Saltinville, while Claire had been
received everywhere, felt in the new flush of the success she
had won a kind of triumph over an unfortunate sister, who
would now, she knew, be socially ostracised ; and in the
plenitude of her own wealth of position she had told herself
that she could afford to go and call upon the fallen
rival, and, under the guise of politeness, see for herself how

26—2

she bore her trouble, and assume a consolatory role that she
told herself she did not feel.

But Cora Dean, ill-educated and badly brought up, violent
in her passions and quick to dislike a rival, had a very kindly
woman's heart within her breast ; and as soon as she had
formally saluted Mrs. Barclay, and had seen the sad,
grave face that met hers, ready to suffer insult if it were
offered in the guise of friendship, a change came over her,
the tender heart leaped, and in full remembrance of their
last parting, she advanced quickly and kissed Claire
warmly.

There was no disguising the tears in her eyes, and they
were infectious, for Mrs. Barclay, whose feathers had been
rising fast and her tongue sharpening into a point, heaved a
tremendous sigh as she jumped up and exclaimed :

It's very little I know of you, Miss Dean, and — I'm a
plain woman — I never thought I should like you ; but if you
wouldn't mind, my dear !'

It was a kiss of peace, and Mrs. Barclay added another
that was very loud and very warm.

And her saying that she had no friends,' she exclaimed.
*Pooh!'

Claire darted a grateful look at both, and then began to
wince and shrink as Mrs. Barclay, in all well-meaning, went
on talking from one to the other with the most voluble of
tongues.

'I declare,' she cried, ' as I said to my Jo-si-ah, there's
no end to the nasty scandals talked in this miserable town.'

Pray say no more, Mrs. Barclay,' cried Claire ; ' I am
so grateful to you both for coming here, but '

I won't say much, my dear, but I must tell Miss Dean,
or I shan't be able to bear myself. What we want here is a
great high tide to come all over the place and wash it
clean.'

Why, we should be drowned, too, Mrs. Barclay,' said Cora,
laughing.

I hope not, my dear, for I'm no lover of scandal ; but do
you know, they actually have had the impudence to say that
my dear Claire here has been seen at her back door talking
to a common soldier.'

Claire tried to control herself, but her eyes would stray to
Cora Dean's and rest there as if fascinated.

When the reason is,' continued the visitor, as Claire was
asking herself should she not boldly avow her connection,
^ the reason is that she has been seen talking to her brother,
who is not a common soldier, but an officer. What do you
think of that ?'

Cora turned to her, smiled, and said :

I can believe in the Saltinville people saying anything ill-named
for the sake of petty gossip. We had much to contend
against when we came.'

Of course, you had, my dear. Look at me, too : just

because my poor Jo-si-ah does money business with some of
the spendthrifts, and, of course, lets 'em pay for it, I'm
made out to be the most greedy, miserly, wicked, drinking
woman that ever breathed. I'm bad enough, I dare say
and between ourselves I do like a glass of hot port wine
negus with plenty of nutmeg ; but I am not so bad as they
say, am I, my dear ?'

You are one of the truest-hearted women I know,' said
Claire, taking her hand.

There's a character for me, my dear,' said Mrs. Barclay,,
turning to Cora and nodding her head and laughing. * Ah,.
I must tell you that too,' she cried as the recollection came,.
just because '

Mrs. Barclay,' said Claire, rising, ' pray spare me. I am
not well ; I have not been well lately, and — and — I know
you will forgive me.'

'Forgive you, my dear?' cried Mrs. Barclay. 'Why, of
course. It's horribly thoughtless of me. There, good-bye.
Are you coming. Miss Dean ?'

Cora rose, feeling that she could not stay longer, and after
a warm leave-taking, during which the two younger women
mentally asked themselves whether they were friends or
bitter enemies, Claire's visitors withdrew and walked together
along the parade.

The slightest touch set Mrs. Barclay's tongue going, and
before they had gone far Cora was in full possession of the

newly-retailed story about Claire's visits to the fishermen's
huts.

And do you believe this of her ?' said Cora, with an eagerness
that she could not conceal.

Now, we're just become friendly, my dear, and I should
be sorry to say anything nasty, but I ask you do I look as
if I believed it ?'

You look as if you were Claire Denville's best friend,*
said Cora diplomatically.

And so I am,' replied Mrs. Barclay proudly. ' I can't
help people talking scandal. They glory in it. And, look
here, my dear, it isn't far from here, and if you don't mind,
we'll go along the cliff to the very house and call.'

Call !' said Cora in amaze.

Yes ; it's at a fisherman's, you know — Fisherman Dick's
and we can get a pint or two of shrimps for tea.'

The consequence was that Cora did walk along the cliff to
Fisherman Dick's cottage, and when Mrs. Barclay reached
her house an hour later her reticule bag was bulging so that
the strings could not be drawn close, and the reason why
was — shrimps.

On the other hand, Cora Dean had not filled her reticule
with shrimps, but her mind with unpleasant little thoughts
that made it bulge. Curious thoughts they were, too, and,
like Mrs. Barclay's shrimps, all jumbled together, heads and
tails, ups and downs. She felt then that she could not

arrange them, but that there was a great sensation of triumph
in her breast, and what she wanted to do most was to sit
down and think — no easy task, for her brain was in a
whirl.

A STORMY SCENE.

I've never dared to write to you before, Claire. Frank
watches me so ; but, though I don't come, I think lots about
you, and I shall never forget what a dear, good thing you
were that night. Good-bye. We must be separate for a
bit, till that bother's all forgotten, but don't you fidget ; I'm
going to be so good now.'

Claire was reading the note that had come to her, she
knew not how, for the second time, wondering how a woman
her sister — could be so utterly heartless ; and, after leaving
her to bear the brunt of Sir Harry Payne's shameless
accusation, treat it all as such a mere trifle.

Claire held the letter in her hand, with her spirits very
low, and a bitter, despairing look was in her eyes as she sat
gazing before her, thinking that no greater trouble could
come to her now.

Eichard Linnell had just passed the house, and though

ever since the night of the * At Home,' she had shrunk away
and rigidly kept from noticing him, the one pleasure she had
longed for was to see the grave, wistful look he was in the
habit of directing at the window. Now, he had gone by
without raising his eyes.

It was the most cruel pang of all. He might have had
faith in her, even if she had rejected his suit, and told him
that it was hopeless in the extreme.

Her cheeks burned as she thought of Cora Dean with her
Juno-like face and her manifest liking for Eichard Linnell.

What is it to me ?' she said to herself ; and her tears
fell fast upon the letter she held in her hand, and she did
not hear her father enter the drawing-room, nor see him
glance quickly from her in the flesh to the sweetly innocent
face of his favourite child, smiling down upon him from the
young Italian artist's canvas.

Then he caught sight of the letter, and saw that she was
weeping.

An angry flash came into his eyes ; the mincing dandyism
gave place to a sharp angular rigidity, and stepping quickly
across the intervening space that separated him from his
child, he was about to take the note from her hands.

Claire uttered a faint cry of alarm, started from the sofa,
and hastily thrust the folded paper into her pocket.

That letter,' he said, stamping this foot, ' give me that
letter.'

No, no, I cannot, father,' she cried, with a look of terror
at his worn and excited face.

I insist,' he cried. ' I will not allow these clandestine
correspondences to be carried on. Give me the letter.'

Father, I cannot,' she said firmly.

Am I to take it from you by force ?' he cried. * Am I, a
gentleman who has struggled all these years to make himself
the model from which society is to take its stand, whO'
has striven so hard for his children, to be disgraced by you?'

No answer.

Heaven knows how I have struggled, and it seems that
two of my children must have been born with some base
blood in their veins, and to be for ever my disgrace.'

Claire raised her eyes to his full of pitying wonder.

See how your — no, God help me !' he cried wildly, ' I
dare not utter his name. See how you have disgraced your
married sister — lowered me in the eyes of society. I am
almost ruined, and just at a time when I had succeeded in
placing your brother well. And now, see here — see here !'

He tore a note from his breast, and held it out rustling in
his trembling hand.

Here — I will not punish you more by reading it aloud, ^
he said ; ' but it is from my own son.'

From Fred ?'

Silence, woman !' cried Danville, with a wild look of
agony in his eyes, and a ghastly pallor taking the place of

the two feverish spots that had stood m his cheeks. * I have
no such son. He is an outcast. I forbid you to mention
his name again.'

He stood quivering with a curious passion, his hips moving,
his eyes staring wildly, and he beat one hand with the open
letter he held in the other.

Here !' he exclaimed at last, ' from Morton — to say that,
under the circumstances, he feels bound — for the sake of his
own dignity and position in his regiment, to hold aloof from
his home. The regiment will soon change quarters, and intime
all this, he hopes, will be forgotten. Till then, all is
to be at an end between us. This — from my own son.'

He began to pace the room nervously, thrusting back the
letter ; and then he turned upon Claire again.

Not content, you still go on. Clandestine correspondence.
Let me see who wrote that.'

I cannot, father.'

But I insist. Here, just when I had had your hand
asked in marriage by one who is wealthy and noble, you disgrace
us all by that shameless meeting. Give me the letter,
I say.'

In his rage he caught her by the arms, and she struggled
with him and fell upon her knees at his feet.

Am I to use force ?' he cried.

For your own sake, no. Father, the letter is not what
you think. For your own peace of mind, let it stay.'

His hands dropped to his sides at his daughter's wild
appeal, and the convulsed angry look once more gave place
to the one of dread, as he drew back a step.

Tell me,' he cried, still hesitating, * is it from that libertine,
Sir Harry Payne ?'

Xo, no !'

From Eockley ?'

No, father. How can you think me so degraded — so low !*

Then — then '

Father, for pity's sake !' she cried, as she crept to this
knees and embraced them. * Can you not see how I am
willing to bear everything to save you pain ? Has there
not been agony and suffering enough in this house ? You
cannot think — you cannot believe. Is it not better that we
should let this rest ?'

He raised his trembling hands to his lips in a nervous,
excited way, looking searchingly and furtively by turns in
his child's piteous face. The rage in his own had died out,
to give place to the look of terror ; and, as Claire clung to
him, he now and again glanced at the door, as if he would
flee from her presence.

No, no,' he said at last. ' I was wrong. I will not seethe
letter. You have your secrets : I have mine. Claire,
my child, there is a veil, drawn down by you, over that
night's work. I dare not lift it, I dare not look.'

Once more, father,' she said, ' had we not better let it

rest ? I am content ; I make no nmrmm- against my
fate.'

No,' he said, flashing out again into anger ; * but — hush !
stop! — I must not,' he whispered hoarsely. 'These
strange fits. I cannot bear them.'

He threw back and shook his head excitedly.

I should go mad — I should go mad.'

'Father!'

There, I am calm again, my child. I am not myself
sometimes. There — there — it is past.'

He bent over and raised her to his breast, where she laid
her head, uttering a piteous sigh.

Stricken,' he whispered ; ' stricken, my child. The
workings of a terrible fate. Don't reproach — don't think ill
of me, Claire. Some day the light may come — no, no,' he
cried wildly ; ' better the darkness. I am so weak — rso torn
by the agony I have endured. So weak, so pitiful a man ;
but, with all this wretched vanity and struggle for place, my
miserable heart has been so full of love for you all — for my
little May.'

Claire shivered.

No, no,' he cried excitedly. ' Claire, my child, don't
speak. Hush ! listen, my child. There have been cases
where, in self-abnegation — the sins of others — have been
borne — by the innocent — the innocent ! Oh, my child, my
child !'

His head dropped upon his daughter's shoulder, and he
burst into a fit of sobbing, the outpourings of a flood of
anguish that he fought vainly to restrain.

• Father, dear father !' she whispered, as her arms
tightened around him.

Claire, my child — my child !'

Yes,' she said, as she seemed to be growing stronger and
more fiiin ; ' your child — not your judge. Father, I see my
duty clearly now. Your help and comfort to the end.'

PEACE AND SYMPATHY.

And I thought that there would be no more rest and comfort
here, my child. Clause, one night '

No, no, dearest,' she cried, as she laid her soft white
hand upon his lips ; * the past cannot be recalled.'

Only this little revelation,' he said, as he kissed the
soft hand and held it to his cheek, ' then the past shall be
as dead with us. One night — since that night — I said to
myself that I could bear no more, and I locked myself in
my room ; but something seemed to stay my hand — a something
seemed to bid me live on, even in my pitiful, degraded
state; and always — I cannot tell you how — your face
seemed to be before my eyes. I tried to put it from me,
but it was there. I fought against it, for I was enraged
with you one minute, trembling with dread of what I dare
not see the next ; but still your face seemed to be there, my
child, and I said at last that I would live it down or face it,

if the dread time that haunts me always, as if lying in
my path, should at last leap out.'

'Father!'

My child I There, there ; we do not know how much
we can bear until the burden is laid upon us ; and now let
us cleave together like soldiers in the battle of life. Claire,
child, we must hive.'

She sat holding his hand in hers, with her brow knit,
and a far-off look in her eyes.

I am so old and broken,' he said musingly ; ' so helpless.
For so many years my miserable energies have been bent
solely to this pitiful life, or I would say let us leave here at
once, and go where we are not known, to live in some
simple fashion ; but — I know nothing. I cannot
work.'

But I can, father,' she said, with a look of elation in her
eyes. ' I am young and strong, and I will work for you as
you have worked for me. Let us go.'

'^liere, my child ?' he said, as he kissed her hand tenderly.
' What work would you do — you, so beautiful, so
unfit for the rough toil of life ?'

As a teacher — a governess,' she cried; but he shook his
head, and began to tremble and draw her closer to
him.

No, no,' he said excitedly ; ' that would mean separation
; and Claire,' he whispered, ' I am so weak — so broken

VOL. II. 27

that I must have your young spirit to sustain me. I
cannot Hve without you. Left alone — no, no, no, I dare
not be left alone.'

Hush, dear !' she said, laying her cheek upon his shoulder,
and drawing him to her breast, to soothe the agony of
dread from which he suffered. * I will not leave you, then,
father, I will be your help and stay. Nothing shall separate
us now.'

*No, no.' He whispered the words. ' I could not live
without you, Claire, and I dare not die. My miserable,
useless life may prove useful yet. Yes, my child, I feel
it — I know it. My work is not yet done. Claire, my
course is marked out for me ; we must stay here till
then.'

'Till then, father?'

Yes ; and live it down. Yes, I am wanted here. You
will help me ?'

Father, I am your child.'

Yes, yes,' he cried, resuming his old flippant air so
suddenly that Claire, who did not realize the reaction that
had set in, gazed at him tremblingly. ' I shall live it down
as of old. We must begin again, my dear, and those miserable,
brainless butterflies will soon forget, and come to me
for my help and introductions. We must not leave here,
and the old fees will come once more.'

Claire sighed.

Yes, child, it would have been a happier life to have
gone ; but it is braver to stay. Let your sweet face show
in its dignity how lightly you treat all slander and scandal.
Some day, after all, you shall marry well.'

She did not reply, and he went on excitedly :

Now let me see what friends we have left. The
Barclayss stand firm as rocks. Those Deans, too — so
vulgar, but quite as friendly as before. Mrs. Poniard


'Mrs. Pontardent, father?'

Yes, my dear, yes. Among so few, we must not be
choosers. Eemember old Hobson, you know. I know
nothing against her but her tables. They gamble high ; but
where do they not ? She has arranged for an evening, and
I have promised her to go and take the management, and
help her to receive her visitors — and — er — and '

She has asked you to bring me ?'

Yes. How did you know ?'

I could read it in your eyes, father,' said Claire. ' Oh,
it is impossible.'

I will not press you, my child ; but it is almost life tome,
and it would be giving us a stepping-stone to recover
our lost ground.'

Do you wish me to go, father ?'

If — if — you would not mind very much, my dear,' he
said hesitatingly. ' It would be helping me.'

27—2

He kissed her hand and left her to her own thoughts.

The tears flowed for awhile, and then, with a sigh, Claire
rose with a look of resignation on her countenance, as if she
accepted her fate.

Private Instructions.

Look here, Bell,' said Major Rockley, as he stood in his
quarters, with his regimental servant before him ; * you were
drunk again last night ?'
'Yes, sir.'

Then you are not ashamed of it ?'

Yes, sir, very much ashamed of it. It's my weakness, sir.'

Weakness, you scoundrel ? It's your blackguardly conduct.
You have been under arrest so many times for this
disgraceful behaviour, and I have such a black list against
you, that if I lay it before Colonel Lascelles he will have you
flogged.'

But you won't do that, sir.'

Yes, I will, you scoundrel. No : I'll give you another
chance.'

Thank you, sir ; I was sure you would,' said the young
man, flushing slightly, and with a strange look in his
face.

By the way, what tie did Mr. Denville come back to
his quarters ?'

Two o'clock, sir.'

With whom had he been ?'

Sir Matthew Bray, sir. Lady DreHncourt's, I think."

Humph ! Now, look here ; can I trust you. Bell ?'

Yes, sir.'

Then I'm going to give you a delicate bit of business ta
do for me.'

Yes, sir.'

If you do it well, I shall give you a clean slate to begin
again, and wipe off that last report.'

Thanks, sir.'

I cannot — at least I do not wish to — be seen in the business
preparations, so I trust to you.'

Yes, sir.'

Go directly then, to Moggridge's, and arrange for a post-chaise
and four to be at Prince's Road to-night at — say
eleven — no; half-past ten.'

Yes, sir.'

Pick good fast horses. Pack a light valise with a change ;
put my pistols in the pockets of the carriage, and you will
be there ready to see me off. You understand ?'

Yes, sir.'

There's — well, to be plain with you — a lady in the case.*

I see, sir.

And, mind this ; after we have started, you stay behind,
and if there is any inquiry directly after, you vohmteer information,
and say we have taken the London Eoad. You
understand ?'

Quite, sir.'

There's a sovereign for you. No : you'll get drunk if I
give it you now. I'll give you five when I come back.'

Very good, sir.'

And mind, if I am wanted, I am unwell in bed. I want
a good start.'

I see, sir. You may depend on me. But what house,
sir, in Prince's Eoad ?'

You'll see, blockhead. The one that is lighted up. Mrs.
Pontardent's.'

Major Eockley's regimental servant saluted, turned upon
his heel, and went out muttering ' Scoundrel !' between his
teeth. * I wonder who the lady is?'

I wouldn't change places with you, my fine fellow,' he
muttered, as he went across the parade ground ; and, turning
a corner, he came suddenly upon Sir Harry Payne, Sir
Matthew Bray, and the new cornet, who flushed scarlet, ashe
saw the dragoon.

James Bell saluted, and was passing, but Sir Harry Payne
stopped him, and Cornet Denville said hastily :

I've left my cigar-case. Join you directly.'

He went away quickly, and Sir Harry Payne said :

Where are you going, Bell ?'

Major's washerwoman, sir,' said the dragoon promptly.

Then you can call at Ever's for me. Half a dozen pairs
of white kid gloves. He knows my size. Shall he get you
some. Matt?'

No ; not going.'

Isn't she going ?'

'No.'

Never mind ; you'd better come. Denville's pretty sister
will be there.'

Phew ! Will she ?' said Sir Matthew, whistling.
I say, mind what you're about. There may be a
row.'

Not there. I shan't notice her; and if I did, Denville's
all right. We're the best of friends now.'

But are you sure she's coming?'

Pontardent told me herself. She came round the old
man.'

Then I will come. Order me some gloves, Harry. I've
no change.'

You never do have any. Here ! Tell them to send
half a dozen pairs for Sir Matthew, and put them down tome.
What's the matter with your lip ?'

My lip, sir ?'

Yes ; it's bleeding.'
Cracked, sir.'

Yes : fevered. Drink too much. That will do. Nines,
or tens — the gloves ?'

Xo, no : eights,' cried Sir Matthew ; and the dragoon
went on out of the barrack gates, with his face growing

This is being a soldier,' he muttered. ' The scoundrel !
If I thrash him till he can't move, they'll shoot me. But
no, it can't be. She's too good a girl. Impossible. Besides,
I shall be there.'

He went straight to the livery-stable keeper, and arranged
for the best four horses he had, and gave the man a
hint.

Very private, you know.'

Eight, my lad. I know what the Major is. Here's half-a-crown
for you to get a glass.'

Thank ye.'

James Bell pocketed the coin, and went off back to pack
his master's valise, and load the case of pistols ready to take
to the chaise in the evening, after which he went to have
one half-pint of ale, for he was suffering from a severe sensation
of thirst, one that he often felt come on.

Just one glass,' he said. * That's all.'

James Bell partook of his one glass, but it was not all.
Then he went back to see to the horses in this charge in a
stable near the barracks — two belonging to the Major, and
one of the Colonel's.

The helper was there, and as the extra work would fall to
his share that night, there was an excuse for giving him a
glass of ale, of which he partook, nothing loth.

The message of Sir Harry Payne had been given, the
clothes were packed up, the pistols ready. Yes, everything
had been done ; and at last, when it was getting dark,
James Bell, looking very stern and determined, and with a
tendency to walk extremely straight, as if he were aiming at
something right ahead, went off to Moggridge's, placed the
packed valise under the seat of the post-chaise, the pistols
in the pockets, and then had a chat with the post-boys, and
a glass of ale.

There was an hour yet to the time, so he strolled to the
end of the yard, and thought he would just go as far as the
stables to see if the helper had properly bedded down the
horses ; and this proving to be the case, and a shilling still
remaining unspent of that half-crown, the dragoon suggested
that a pot of the best ale should be fetched, and that they
should drink it before he went.

The helper was worthy of his title, and fetched the ale,
and then, one seated on a truss of straw, the other upon the
corn-bin, the two men finished the ale between them,
and just at the time that James Bell should have been
at Mrs. Pontardent's gate, he was fast asleep in the
stable.

That afternoon Mr. Barclay was busy with his partner,

when a visitor was announced, and as it was probably
a call relating to money matters, Mrs. Barclay left the
room.

Oh, it's you, Moggridge,' said Barclay gruffly. * You
don't want money, I'm sure.'

Thank ye, no, Mr. Barclay, sir,' said the visitor, a closely
shaven, sharp-faced man, with bow legs. ' Things is moving,
sir. I'm doing tidy;' and he went on chewing a piece of
clover hay, which he had between his lips.

What do you want then ?'

Wel, you know what you said, sir, after the Hon. Tom
Bradley went off that night, and dodged the sheriff's officers;
and you know what I promised you.'

Who's going now ?'

Major Eockley, sir.'

The deuce ! Alone ?'

No, sir. I think there's a lady in the case.'
Who ?'

Don't know, sir. Take up at Mrs. Pontardent's party ;
half after ten.'

Thank ye, Moggridge. That'll you take ?'

Well, sir, champagne's a thing as don't often come in my
way, and '

Come along,' said Barclay, and Mr. Moggridge's desires
were satisfied.

Not a bolt !' said Barclay to himself. * Who's he

woman ? Well, I don't want him to go. If he goes off he
won't meet my bill. He must be stopped, but how?'

He stood thinking for a few minutes, and then sat down
and wrote a letter which he took out, and picking a boy from
the idlers on the cliff, sent it to its destination.

A WALK AND A DRIVE.

EiCHAED Lineal founcl a gooch deal of relief in his restless
state of mind in taking long country walks, telling himself
that he got away from his thoughts ; but, on the contrary,
he thought the more, and enjoyed his misery as some young
men do whose love affairs go crooked.

He was about nine miles away from Saltinville on the day
of Mrs. Pontardent's party, and rapidly increasing the
distance, when he suddenly became aware of the sound of
wheels behind in the road, and looking round as he gave
place to the driver, he found that Cora Dean was checking
her ponies.

Confound her ! she has followed me,' he said to himself,
as she drew up by his side, quite alone, for the little seat
generally occupied by the boy-groom was turned over and
closed.

This is unexpected, Mr. Linnell,' she said, holding out
her gloved hand. ' I thought you were at home.'

I felt sure you were,' he said, smiling.
Why ?'

The question was accompanied by a half resentful, half
tender look, the first intended, the latter not.

I expected that you would be busy with hair-dressers
and dressmakers, preparing for to-night's battle.'

To-night's battle ?'

Yes,' he said, in a bantering, reckless way that was new
to him, * the battle with the beaux whom you are going to
slay.'

He felt as if he could have bitten his tongue off the next
moment, as he saw the look of pain she gave him.

What have I done ?' she said in a soft, low, half passionate
tone.

Done ! What do you mean ?'

Why do you take pleasure in laughing at me and
mocking me ?'

Oh, nonsense !' he cried. ' I was only speaking
lightly.'

Why should you speak lightly to me ?' she said. ' We
have lived in the same house now for over a year, and,
instead of being neighbours and friends, there always seems
to be a great gap between us.'

Why, what a sentimental view you take of things,' he
said. * We shake hands when we meet. We smile at one
another, and nod and chat.'

Yes,' she said sadly, 'we shake hands, we smile at each
other, we nod and chat, but '

She stopped and seemed to try and command herself ;
and, to this great relief, she spoke lightly as she said :

I shall see you to-night, of course ?'

Xo ; I thought you were going to a party.'

Yes, but you will be there ?'

Xo,' he said gravely ; ' I am not going.'

Xot going I' she cried. ' Why, you were asked.'

How do you know ?'

She turned crimson, and avoided his searching look.

Did Mrs. Pontardent tell you ?'

Y'es, and you will go ?'

Xo,' he said; 'I declined. Why was I asked — do you
know ?'

She darted an appealing look at him ; and the haughty,
self-assertive woman seemed to be completely changed.

Don't — don't be angry with me,' she said. * I — I thought
it would be so pleasant if you were going to be there.'

You never asked that woman to invite me, Miss
Dean ?'

She did not speak, but her face began to work, her hands
dropped in her lap, her head drooped upon her chest, and
she wept bitterly.

Oh, Miss Dean, for heaven's sake don't do that,' he said.
I hate to see a woman cry. I can't bear it. Pray forgive

me if I spoke harshly. I could not help feeling annoyed
that you should have done this.'

You ought to be grateful,' she cried passionately. ' The
woman you love so dearly will be there with gay Major

Eockley oh, Mr. Linnell — Eichard — for heaven's sake

forgive me. What have I said — what have I done?'

In her alarm at the start he gave, and at his ghastly face,
she let fall the reins and caught at his arm, when the ponies,
feeling their heads free, dashed off ; but this brought Linnell
back to the present, and with one bound he reached therein,
hung on to it, and was dragged along for a few yards,
turning the ponies' heads towards a steep bank by the side
of the narrow unfrequented road. The result would nave been
that he would have been crushed between the chaise and the
bank, but for Cora's presence of mind in seizing the other
rein and dragging at it with all her might.

As it was, he received a violent kick which turned him
sick and faint, and when he came to, the ponies' reins were
secured to a tree in the hedge, and he was lying upon the
grass, with Cora's arm supporting his head, and her frightened
face bending over him.

What is it ?' he cried sharply. * Are you hurt ?'

No,' she said softly. 'Don't move. How brave you
are!'

He looked at her wonderingly, and then flushing once
more, he recalled the whole scene, and what led to it.

I was afraid you were hurt,' he said, trying to rise ; but
the giddy feeling came back, and he sank down again.

You are huit,' she cried. ' What shall I do ? Eichard
dear Eichard ! He's dying. Oh, my love — my love !'

Hush I' he cried huskily, as she was raising his head in
her arms ; ' for God's sake don't speak to me like that.
There — there — you see I am better. The pony kicked me.
It made my head swim. There,' he cried, rising to his knees,
you see it is all right. I quite frightened you.'

He stood up now and offered her his hand to rise ; but
she did not take it, for she covered her face with her hands
and crouched lower and lower on her knees, sobbing wildly
in a passion of grief, for his words had been as cold and
distant as if they had been strangers.

Miss Dean — Miss Dean — pray let me help you to your
carriage,' he said ; but she shrank from him.

Don't touch me !' she cried bitterly ; ' you made me love
you — you made me disgrace myself like this, and now I am
to be your laughing-stock and scorn.' She looked up at
him with her eyes full of rage, which died out on the instant
as she cried to him wildly, ' I wish you had let me
drown !'

He stood looking at her for a few moments, and then'
glanced along the winding lane ; but they were quite alone.
Then, taking her hand, he made her rise, for she submitted
to his will without a trace of resistance.

VOL. II. 28

I am very sorry,' he said at last simply.

Sorry !' she cried angrily. ' Oh, why am I such a mad
fool ? Why did I betray myself like this ?'

Hush !' he said softly, as he held her hand between both
of his ; ' listen to me. Do you think I have not seen for long
enough that you are beautiful, and that '

How dare you?' she cried fiercely. * It is not true.'

You must hear me,' he said ; ' and forgive my awkwardness
for speaking as I do. You know my story so well : have
I not always been steadfast to that love ?'

She sobbed violently and tried to snatch away her hand,
but he held it firmly. ,

I have always tried to be to you as a friend. Heaven
knows I would not have wounded you like this.'

Yes,' she sobbed bitterly, ' Heaven knows.'

Why did you stab me with those cruel words ?' he cried
resentfully.

I don't know,' she wailed. * I was mad. It makes me
mad to see you go on worshipping her as you do. Does she
make you love and hate her too, as she does me ?'

Hush — hush !' he said quickly. * I want to like and respect
you, Cora Dean.'

Like ! Respect !' she cried, with a flash of her former
rage. ' Why have I degraded myself like this ?'

Do you not trust me ?' he said gently, as he looked in her
eyes. Do you think I should be such a despicable coward

as ever to whisper word of this to a soul? Come,' he said,
with a frank smile, ' we have both been unfortunate. Let us
be friends.'

Friends ?' she cried. * No ; a woman never forgives a
slight like this. Do you think I could ?'

Yes,' he said, after a few moments' pause. ' You hate
mo, and are bitter against me now ; but when you have
grown calm you Weill respect me, I am sure. Cora,' he cried,
with an outburst as excited as her owen, * there is no such

thing as love or truth on earth. I Bah ! What am I

saying ?' he cried, checking himself. * Come, we are friends.
Let me help you to your place again.'

He offered his hand once more, but she struck it aside, and
went to the ponies' heads while he tried to forestall her, but
had to catch at the side of the chaise to save himself a
fall.

Her anger was gone on the instant as she saw his face
contract with pain, and in a moment she was by his
side.

It is my turn to triumph,' she said in a deep, low tone.
■* Eichard Linnell, you must trust to the woman you despise
I shall have to drive you home.'

He tried to master the pain, but he could not ; and, with a
deprecating smile, he had to confess his weakness, and accepta
seat back to Saltinville, for it was impossible to walk.

It was a triumph, Cora Dean saw as she sat up proud

28—2

and stately beside him ; and she felt her heart glow as they
reached the town, and scores of promenaders noted him
seated by her side ; but it was not a pleasant drive home,
all the same.

LINNELL CHANGES HIS MIND.

Getting cured then, Dick ?' said Colonel Mellersh grimly,
as Richard limped into the room after finding a note in his
own place, which his father said had been brought by a boy.

'Cured? Look, I am quite lame. One of Miss Dean's
ponies kicked me; but it will only be a bruise.'

Humph ! How convenient !' said the Colonel, with a grim
look.

Don't laugh at me,' said Linnell quickly. * I could not
help myself.'

That's what we all say when we fall victims to fascination.'
Mellersh, pray stop this banter. You refused Mrs. Pont-ardent's

invitation for yourself and me ?'

I did.'

I want you to ask her pardon, and get the invitations for
us. I must get there to-night.'

Because Miss Cora Dean, your beautiful charioteer, will
be there ?'

No !' fiercely.

Why, then, most impressionable youth ?'

Because — must I tell you ?'

Yes, if you wish me to act,' said the Colonel sternly.
Because Claire Denville will be there.'

Good heavens ! that old fop is never going to take that
girl?'

He is.'

Pooh ! What am I saying ?' cried the Colonel, half
laughingly. ' Well, what of it ? Why do you want to go T

< Look.'

Linnell held out the note he had found in his room, and
Mellersh read it.

Eockley — post-horses — for the London Eoad. Who sent
this, Dick?'

I don't know.'

It may be a trick.'

Who would trick me like that ? And what for ?'
Mellersh remained silent for a few minutes, and then he

said gravely :

Well, Dick, suppose it is so. Surely you are going to
awake from this madness now ?'

What do you mean ?'

What does this letter mean ? It is plain enough. Constant
sapping has carried the fortress, and the lady has
consented.'

Don't talk like that, Mellersli. For heaven's sake, don't
take that cynical tone.'

Why not, madman ? I have heard tell that women often
say no when they mean yes. A lady we know must have
meant yes. Hang it, boy, what more proof do you want that
the woman is unworthy of your love ?'

None,' said Linnell bitterly ; ' none, but I love her all the
same.'

Nonsense ! Be a man.*

I am a man,' cried Linnell furiously, ' too much of a man
to see the woman I love suffer for her weakness when I can
stretch out a hand to save her. That hand I can stretch out,
and I will. Now, will you help me?'

To the death, Dick. I abhor your folly, but there is so
much true chivalry in it that I'll help you with all my heart.'

I knew you would,' cried Linnell excitedly. * Write at
once and get the invitations.'

Pish !' said Mellersh contemptuously. ' Don't trouble
yourself, my boy. I have only to walk in at Madame Pont-ardent's
door with any friend I like to take. Ah, I wonder
how many hundred pounds I have won in that house 1'

Linnell was walking up and down the room when the
strains of music heard across the hall ceased ; and directly
after old Mr. Linnell's pleasant, grave head was thrust into
the room.

Another letter for you, Dick, my son. Just come.'

He held it out, nodded to both, and went back to his room,
when the violin was heard again.

Strange hand,' said Richard, opening it quickly.
'Good God!'

What's the matter ?' cried Eichard, as he heard his friend's
exclamation — saw his start.

What has Miss Close to say to you ?' said Mellersh
huskily.

Miss Close ? This is not from Miss Close. Look — no, I
cannot show you,' cried Richard excitedly. * Yes, I will ; I
keep nothing from you.'

Mellersh glanced at the note which had been delivered by
hand. It was anonymous, and only contained these words :

If Mr. Eichard Linnell wishes for further proof of the unworthiness
of a certain lady, let him visit Mrs. Pontardent's
to-night.'

That cannot be from Miss Close,' said Eichard, as he
saw his friend's face resume its cynical calm.

Possibly not. Of course not. Why should she write to
you ? Well, Dick, we'll go and see the affair to-night ; but
what do you mean to do ?'

Act according to circumstances. At any rate stop this
w retched business.'

Good,' said Mellersh. ' I'm with you, Dick ; but if it
comes to a meeting this time, let me take the initiative. I

should like to stand in front of Bockley some morning.
The man irritates me, and I am in his debt.'

What, money ?'

No ; I want to pay back a few insults thrown at me
over the tables now and then.'

AN EXACTING GUEST.

Mrs. Pontardent was a lady of a class who prospered well
in the days when George the Third was king, and fashionable
men considered it the correct thing to ruin themselves
at cards wherever the tables were opened for the purpose.
If you go to an auction sale now, in out-of-the-way places,
there are sure to be card-tables in the catalogue ; but if you
furnish newly, your eyes rarely light upon green baize-lined
tables exhibited for sale.

There were several at Mrs. Pontardent's handsomely-furnished
detached house in Prince's Eoad, where it stood
back in fairly extensive grounds. In fact, it was, after
Lord Carboro's, one of the best houses close to Saltinville.

There were plenty of carriages waiting about in the road
that night — so many along by the garden wall that Major
Eockley found it necessary to alter his plans, for a post-chaise
and four was likely to attract attention, and its postboys
might be the objects of a good deal of ribald jest if

they vere close up with the servants of the private
carriages.

To meet this difficulty, not being able to find this servant,
he went round himself to the livery stables, feed the postboys,
and gave them instructions to wait in the back lane
close by the door in the wall at the north side of the
garden.

That door was only unlocked when the gardener was
receiving fresh soil, plants or pots, or found it necessary to
go out for a quiet refresher in the heat of the day ; but after
an interview and the offer of a golden key, the gardener
thought it possible that the door might be left open that night.

Mrs. Pontardent lived in style, and her rooms deserved
the title of saloons, draped as they were with amber satin,
and bright with wax candles, whose light was reflected from
many girandoles.

The drawing-room windows opened on to a well-kept
lavN'n ; there were bosky walks ; a terrace from which the
glittering sea was-visible ; and in the saloons and about the
garden a large and brilliant company was assembled.

The Barclayss were there, for Barclayss was everybody's
banker, and a necessity. The Deans arrived early, and
Cora looked handsomer than ever. In fact, the officers of
the dragoon regiment, as they saw her go up and speak to
Claire, declared that they were the most perfect blonde and
brunette that the world had ever seen. But then Mrs.

Pontardent's wines were excellent, and it was acknowledged
that it was a guest's own fault if he did not have enough.

Tea, coffee, ices, and sandwiches at various buffets were
spread as a matter of course, but the servants who waited
there had a light time compared with that of the butler
and his aid.

The Master of the Ceremonies had arrived early with his
daughter, whom Mrs. Pontardent kissed affectionately, and
called * My dear child,' and then her father was obliged to
leave her, as he had so many duties to perform, receiving
guests and introducing them to the hostess as if it were a
royal ball ; getting couples ready for the dances that went
on to the strains of a string band in a very languid way, and
finding places for elderly ladies at the card-tables, as
opportunity served.

x\s soon as she could, Claire found a refuge by the side of
Mrs. Barclay; but her hand was much sought after by
dancers brought up from time to time by her father, and
every time she trembled lest one of those present should
offer himself as a partner.

But, though Major Eockley was there, and had spoken to
her gravely once, and bowed on two other occasions as he
passed her, he had made no other advance; and when
Eichard Linnell arrived he did not attempt to speak, but
passed her arm-in-arm with Colonel Mellersh, bowing coldly,
and giving her one stern, severe look that made her draw

lier breath once with a catch, and then feel a glow of resentment.


Cora came and sat down once by her side, to be by turns
loving and spiteful, as if her temper was not under command ;
but they were soon separated, for Cora's hand was also much
sought after for the various dances.

The evening was less trying than Claire had anticipated.
She had come prepared to meet with several slights from
the ladies present, but, somehow, the only one who openly
treated her with discourtesy was Lady Drelincourt, who
gave her the cut direct in a most offensive way, as she
passed on Morton Demdlle's arm.

That was the unkindness act of all, for the boy had seen
her, and was about to nod and smile, forgetful in the elation
produced by several glasses of wine, of the cause of offence
between them ; but, taking his cue from the lady on his arm,
he drew himself up stiffly and passed on.

The tears rose to Claire's eyes, but she mastered her
emotion, as she saw Major Eockley on the other side of the
room, keenly observant of all that had passed ; and to hide
her grief she went on talking to the gentleman who had just
solicited her hand for the next dance.

Eichard Linnell passed her soon afterwards with Cora
upon his arm, and a jealous pang shot through her ; but it
passed away, and she resigned herself to her position, as if
she had suffered so many pangs of late that her senses were

growing blunted, and suffering was becoming easier to
her.

Morton Denville was dismissed soon after in favour of Sir
Matthew Bray; and, in his boy-ike excitement, looked
elated one moment as the half-fledged officer of dragoons,
annoyed and self-conscious the next, as he kept seeing his
father bowing and mincing about the rooms, or caught sight
of his sister, whom he shunned.

It was a miserable evening, he thought, and he wished he
had not come.

Then he wondered whether he looked well, for he fancied
that the Adjutant had smiled at him.

A minute later he was thinking that he was thoroughly
enjoying himself, and this enjoyment he found in a glass of
Mrs. Pontardent's champagne.

The dancing went on ; so did the flirting in the saloons
and in the garden, which was brilliant in front of the
windows, deliciously dark and love-inspiring down the shady
"walks, for there the strains of the band came in a sweetly
subdued murmur that the young officers declared was intoxicating,
a charge that was misapplied.

The play grew higher as the night wore on, the conversation
and laughter louder, the dancing more spirited, and the
party was at its height when Mrs. Pontardent, in obedience
to an oft-repeated look from Major Rockley, walked up to
him slowly, and took his arm.

'My dear Major: \Yhat a look!' she said banteringly.
You met the handsome youth, and you shot hin. After
that you ought to be friends, whereas I saw you exchange a
look with poor Mr. Linnell that was only excelled by the
one you gave Colonel Mellersh.'

D Colonel Mellersh !' said Eockley savagely.

By all means,' said the lady mockingly ; * but not in my
presence, please.'

Don't talk twaddle,' exclaimed Eockley, as they passed
out of the drawing-room window and across the lawn.

It so happened that Cora Dean had been dancing with a
handsome young resident of the place, and, after the dance,
he had begged her to take a stroll with him out in the grounds.

No, no,' she said, amused by the impression made upon
his susceptible nature ; ' that means taking cold.'

I assure you, no,' he exclaimed rather thickly. ' It's
warm and delightful outside. Just one walk round.'

She was about to decline, when she caught Eichard Lin-nell's
eyes fixed upon her and her companion, and, urged by
a feeling of coquetry, and a desire to try and move him to
speak to her, if it were only to reproach, she took the offered
arm, and, throwing a lace scarf over her head, allowed her
Partner to lead where he would, and that was naturally down
one of the darkest grass alleys of the grounds.

Do you know, Miss Dean,' he began thickly, * I never
saw a girl in all my life who '

Can we see the sea from the grounds here ?' said
Cora.

Yes ; lovely view,' he said. 'Down here;' and he led
her farther from the house. ' There, you can see the sea
from here, but who would wish to see the sea when he
could gaze into the lovely eyes of the most '

Is not that an arbour ?' said Cora, as they stood now in
one of the darkest parts of the garden.

Yes. Let's sit down and have a talk, and '

Will you lead the way ?' said Cora.

Yes ; give me your hand — eh — why — what douce ! She's
given me the slip. Oh, 'pon my soul, I'll pay her for that.'

He started back towards the house, passing close by Cora,
who had merely stepped behind a laurustinus, and who now
went in the other direction, along a grass path at the back
of the lawn.

Her white satin sappers made not the slightest sound,
and she was about to walk straight across the lawn and out
into the light, when a low, deep murmur reached her ear,
and she recognised the voice.

Major Eockley,' she said to herself. ' Who is he with ?'
Her jealous heart at once whispered ' Claire !'

If I could but bring Eichard face to face with them now !'
she thought, * he would turn to me after all.'

She hesitated, for the thought of the act being dishonourable
struck her; but in her mental state, and with her

defective education, she was not disposed to yield to fine
notions of social honour ; and, with her heart beating fast,
she hurried softly along the grass, to find herself well within
hearing of the speakers.

The words she heard were not those of love, for they were
uttered more in anger. It was at times quite a quarrel
changing to the tone of ordinary conversation.

Cora glanced behind her, to see the brightly lit-up house
and hear the strains of music and the sounds of laughter and
lively remark, while, by contrast with the glow in that
direction, the bushes amid which she stood and into which
she peered seemed to be the more obscure.

There was a pause, and then a woman's voice said
quickly :

Xo, no ; I cannot. You must not ask me, indeed.'

A curious feeling of disappointment came over Cora, for
her plan was crushed on the instant. What were other
people's love affairs to her ?

She was turning away with disgust, when the deep voice
of the Major said quickly, and in a menacing way which
rooted the listener to the spot :

But I say you shall. One word from me, and you might
have to leave Saltinville for good. I mean for your own good.'

Oh, Rockley !'

I don't care ; you make me mad. Here have I done
you endless little services, helped you to hive in the style

VOL. II. 29

you do ; and the first little favour I ask of you, I am met
with a flat refusal.'

I don't like to refuse you, but the girl is *

Well, you know what the girl is. Hang it all, Pont,
should I ask you if it were not as I say — unless it were that
rich heiress I am to carry off some day.'

And the sooner the better.'

Yes, yes ; but time's going. It's now eleven, and I must
strike while the iron's hot.'

But, Eockley '

More opposition ? What the devil do you mean ?'
I don't like to be mixed up with such an affair.*

You will not be mixed up with it. No one will know
but our two selves.'

My conscience goes against such a trap.'

Your conscience !' he hissed angrily.

Well, and do you suppose I have none ? The girl is too
good. I like her. It is a shame, Eockley.'

Cora Dean's heart beat as if it would suffocate her, while
her mouth felt dry and her hands moist. She could hardly
have moved to save her life. She knew what it was, she felt
sure. It was a plot against Claire, and if it were

Cora Dean did not finish her thought, but listened as
Eockley spoke again.

TOO LATE.

How long has the fan Pontardent taken to the nursing

up

of scruples ?'

Do you suppose a woman is all evil ?' was the retort.
You men make us bad enough, but you cannot kill all the
good. I say it is a shame.'

A shame !' said Cockle derisively. 'Ha, ha, ha! What
a woman you are ! You don't know what has taken place.
I tell you this ; she is mine. All she wants is the excuse
and opportunity that she finds to-night with me. The old
man watches her like a hawk.'

Is this really so, Eockley ?*

On my honour. I should not have done what I have if
she were not willing. I've a chaise and four waiting outside
the lower gate behind here.'

You have ?'

It has been there this half hour, and we are only waiting
for our opportunity. Now then, will you help me ?'

29—2

'Well,' said Mrs. Pontardent hesitating, 'if it is
that '

'It is like that, I tell you; but she wants it to appear
that she had no hand in it, to keep up the fiction. You
see?'

Yes,' said the woman* rather hoarsely ; ' but I don't like
it, Eockley.'

Friends or enemies ? — one word ?' he said sternly.

Friends,' she said quickly. ' What am I to do?'

Go back at once, and get hold of young Denville. He's
half tipsy somewhere.'

Yes.'

Tell him he has shamefully neglected his sister, and that
he is to take her out in the garden for a walk straight down
the broad grass path, and beg her pardon.'

'But '

Not a word. Do what I say. The boy will obey you
like a sheep dog.'

And then ?'

What then ? That is all.'

But, Eockley, no violence.'

Bah ! Rubbish ! Do as I bid you. I shall push the
boy into a bush ; that's all.'

There was a dead silence.

Must I do this, Eockley ?'

Yes, you must. Go at once. You shall not be mixed

in the affair at all. No one can blame you, for the boy is
too tipsy to recollect anything tomorrow. Now go.'

There was a rustle of a dress, and Cora had just time to
draw out of sight as Mrs. Pontardent passed her.

Cora heard her voice as she went by. It was almost like
a sigh, but the words were articulate, and they
were :

God forgive me ! It is too bad.'
What to do ?

Cora stood motionless, her pulses beating furiously, and
the blood singing to her brain, and seeming to keep her
from thinking out some plan.

Major Rockley — the cruel, insolent libertine — had a post-chaise
waiting ; by a trick Claire was to be got out, and
down the broad walk, led like a sheep to the slaughter by
her weak, half-tipsy brother, and then carried off. The
plan seemed to Cora de\'ihsh in its cunning, and the flush
of her ardent blood intoxicated her with a strange feeling of
excitement — a wild kind of joy.

It was all for her. Claire away — carried off, or eloped with
Cockle, Eichard Linnell would rage for a week, and then
forget her. Poor fellow ! How he had struggled to hide
that limp, and how handsome he looked. How she loved
him — her idol — who had saved her life. He would be hers
now, hers alone, and there would be no handsome, sweet-voiced
rival in the way to win hiiu to think always of her

soft, grey, loving eyes — so gentle, so appealing in their gaze,
that they seemed to be looking out of the darkness at her
now.

Yes, there they were so firm and true — so softly appealing,
and yet so full of womanly dignity that, as she hated her,
so at the same time she loved.

And in perhaps half an hour she would be away — on
the road to London — in the Major's arms.'

And Richard Linnell will be free to love me, and me
alone?'

She said it aloud, and then tore at her throat, for a
thought came that made the blood surge up and nearly
suffocate her.

Why, he would curse me if he knew, and loathe me to
his dying day.'

She-took a few hasty steps forward, and then staggered
and stopped short.

I must have been mad !' she panted. * Am I so bad as
that?'

She hurried towards the house, and narrowly missed her
late partner as she reached one of the windows.

Thank heaven ! she was not too late. There sat Claire
where she had left her. No : it was some other lady.

She hurried in as quickly as she could without exciting
notice.

Where was Claire ?

She went from room to room, but she was not visible.

Where was Eichard Linnell ?

Nowhere to be seen.

If she could find Colonel ^Nlellersh, or Mr. Barclay — but
no ; there was not a soul she knew, and from different parts
of the room men were approaching her, evidently to ask
her to dance.

She escaped into another saloon, and there was Den-vile.


She took a few steps towards him, but he hurried away
as if to attend to a call from their hostess, who was smiling
at the end of the room. The next moment Cora saw her
take the arm of the Master of the Ceremonies and go through
a farther door.

Impossible to speak to him now. It was as if Mrs. Pont-ardent
had divined the reason of her coming, and was
fighting against her with all her might.

Another gentleman approached, but she shrank away
nervously, expecting each moment to see again her companion
of the dark walk.

AU at once, to her great Joy, she caught sight of Mrs.
Barclay, looking in colour like a full-blown cabbage-rose,
and exhaling scent.

She hurried up to the plump pink dame, to be saluted with :

Ah, my dear, how handsome you do look to-night !'

Where's Claire Denville ?' cried Cora huskily.

Claire, my dear ? Oh, she was with me ever so long,
but she has just gone down the grounds.'

A spasm seemed to shoot through Cora Dean as she said
to herself :

Too late !'

iTELLEESH IS CONVINCED.

Well, Dick,' said Mellersh, as he sought Linnell out, after
a stroll round the rooms in search of Cora Dean, ' how long
are you going to keep yourself on the gridiron ?'
I don't understand you.'

Then I shall not try to explain.'

Have you seen anything ?'
N— no.'

Don't hesitate, man ; you have ?'

No, Dick, no. Of course, I've seen a certain young lady,
and I've seen Eockley hanging about.'

Well, that proves nothing, does it ?'

My dear Dick, why should I waste my breath on a man
in your condition ?'

My condition, you wretched old cynic ? You never knew
what it was to love.'

Wrong. I have loved, and I am in love now.'
'You? You?'

Yes, my boy, and with a woman who cares for somebody
else ; but I don't go stalking about like a tragedy hero, and
rolling my eyes and cursing the whole world. If I cannot
have the moon, I shall not cry for it.'

Hist ! There goes Cockle.*

Well, let him go.'

Eichard Linnell made no reply, but quietly followed the
Major.

I mustn't let them meet without me there,' thought
Mellersh. ' The scoundrel might hit him badly next
time.'

He strode off after Eichard Linnell, but missed him, and
it was quite half an hour before they met again.

I have been about the gate,' said Eichard hoarsely.
There is no post-chaise there.'

Then it is a hoax.'

No ; I cannot think that it is. Eockley is yonder, and
he is watching about in a curious, restless way that means
something.'

Where is he ?'

Over there by the saloon window.'

Oh, my dear Dick, I am hungry for a good hand at
"whist, and to win a little Philistine gold, and here you keep
me hanging about after you, looking for a mare's nest.'

I can't stop,' said Linnell. ' Where shall I find you if I
want you ?'

Here, on this seat, under this bush, smoking a cigar.
Ko ; I'll stick by you, my lad.'

They went off together, and, going straight up to the window
pointed out by Linnell, found that Eockley was not there.
* I left him there, I'll swear,' said Linnell savagely.
iso, don't let us separate ; I may want you.'

Quite right ; and I may want you,' replied Mellersh.
They walked hastily round, looking in at window after

window, but there was no sign of Eockley. The throng of
guests were dancing, playing, or conversing, and the scene
was very brilliant ; but the tall, dark officer of the dragoons
was the only one of his party that they could not see.

Mellersh,' exclaimed Linnell suddenly, * with all my
watchfulness, I seem to have failed.'

Why do you say that ?'
Claire !'

Claire ? Why, I saw her seated on that rout-chair five
minutes ago.'

Yes ; but she has gone.'

Quick, then — down to the gate ! We must see them there.*

Unless they have passed through,' said Linnell, with a
groan. * I ought not to have left the entrance.'

Don't talk,' said Mellersh, almost savagely now, he
seemed so moved from his ordinary calm. * I don't want
to think you are right, Dick, but I begin to be suspicious at
last.'

They hurried down to the gate, where a knot of servants
were chatting, the Hghts from the carriage-lamps glistening
in polished panels and windows, and throwing up the gay
liveries of the belated footmen waiting.

Has any one passed through here lately ?' said Mellersh
sharply.

No, sir,' was chorused.

Not a lady and gentleman ?'

No, sir — yes, about half an hour ago Colonel Lascelles
and the doctor at the barracks went out together.'

But no lady and gentleman separately or together?'

No, sir.'

No carriage ?'

No, sir,' said the footman who had acted as spokesman.

Only wish they would,' grumbled a coachman from his
box close by the gate.

We are in time,' said Mellersh, and Linnell breathed
more freely as he took up a position in the shade of a great
clump of evergreens just inside the gate.

Have you any plan ?' said Mellersh, after a few minutes'
waiting, during which time the servants, gathered in a knot,
were at first quiet, as if resenting the presence of the two
gentlemen. Then their conversation began again, and the
watchers were forgotten.

Plan? Yes,' said Linnell. ' I shall take her from him,
and not leave her until she is in her father's care.'

Humph ! That means mischief, Dick.'

Yes ; for him, Mellersh. I shall end by killing that man.*
Mellersh was silent, and the minutes glided by.

I can't bear this,' said Linnell at last. ' I feel as if there
is something wrong — that he has succeeded in getting her
away. Mellersh ! man ! why don't you speak ? Here,
come this way.'

Mellersh followed as his companion walked to the
gate.

Is there a servant of Mrs. Pontardent's here ?'

Yes, sir,' said a man holding a lantern, * I am.'
Is there any other entrance to these grounds ?'

No, sir,' said the man sharply, and Linnell's heart beat
with joy. * Leastwise, sir, only the garden gate.'

Garden gate ?'

Yes, sir ; at the bottom of the broad walk.'
Here — which way ?'

Eight up through the grounds, sir; or along outside here,
till you come to the lane that goes round by the back. But
it's always kept locked.'

Stop here, Mellersh, while I go round and see,' whispered
Linnell. * If I shout, come to me.'

Yes ; go on. It is not likely.'

They went outside together, past the wondering group of
servants, and then separating, Linnell was starting off when
Mellersh ran to him.

No blows, Dick,' he whispered, ' Be content with
separating them.'

Linnell nodded, and was starting again when a man ran
up out of the darkness, and caught Mellersh hastily by the
arm.

Seen a post-chaise about here, sir ?'

Post-chaise, my man ?'

Yes, sir — four horses — was to have been waiting hereabouts.
Lower down. Haven't heard one pass ?'

'No,' said Linnell quickly; 'but what post-chaise? Whose?
Speak man !'

Who are you ?' said the man roughly.

Never mind who I am,' cried Linnell. ' Tell me who
was that post-chaise waiting for ?'

The man shook him off with an oath, and was starting
again on his search, when about fifty yards away there was
the tramp of horses, the rattle and bump of wheels ; and
then, as by one consent, the three men ran towards the
spot, they caught a faint glimpse of a yellow chaise turning
into the main road ; then there was the cracking of the
post-boys' whips, and away it went over the hard road at a
canter.

Too late !' groaned the man, as he ran on, closely followed
by Linnell and Mellersh.

Too late !' groaned Linnell ; but he ran on, passing the
man, who raced after him, though, and for about a quarter

of a mile they kept almost together, till, panting with
breathlessness and despair, and feeling the utter hopelessness
of overtaking the chaise on foot, Linnell turned fiercely
on the runner and grasped him by the throat.

You scoundrel !' he panted. * You knew of this. Who's
in that chaise ?'

Curse you ! don't stop me. Can't you see I'm too late ?*
cried the man savagely.

Linnell ! x\re you mad?' cried Mellersh, coming up.

Linnell ! — are you Linnell ? — Eichard Linnell ?' panted
the man, ceasing his struggles.

Yes. Who are you ?'

Don't waste time, man,' groaned the other. * We must
stop them at any cost. Did you see them go ? Who is it
Major Eockley has got there ?'

'A lady we know,' said Mellersh quickly. * Who are
you ?'

The drunken fool and idiot who wanted to stop it,' groaned
Bell. ' Here, Linnell,' he said, * what are you going to do?'

The man's drunk, and fooling us, Mellersh,' cried Linnell
excitedly. ' Quick ! Into the town and let's get a post-chaise.
They are certain to take the London Eoad.'

Xo,' cried Bell excitedly ; * he would make for Weymouth.
Tell me this, though, gentlemen,' he cried, changing to linnet's
arm. * I am drunk, but I know what I am saying.
Lor God's sake, speak: is it Claire Den\dlle ?'

Who are you ?' cried Mellersh sharply. * Stand off, or I'll
knock you down. It is the Major's man, Dick, and he's
keeping us back to gain time. I didn't know him at first.'

No : I swear I'm not,' cried the dragoon, in a voice so
full of anguish, that they felt his words were true. 'Tell me,
is it Miss Denville ?'

Yes.'

Curse him ! I'll have his life,' cried the man savagely.
This way, quick !'

What are you going to do ?' cried Linnell, as Bell set off
at a sharp run towards the main street of the town.

Come with me and see.'

No : I shall get a posthaste and four.'

And give them an hour's start,' cried the dragoon.
'Horses, man, horses.'

Where can we get them quickly ?'

In Major Eockley's stable, curse him!' was the reply.

In five minutes they were at the stable, and the dragoon
threw open the door.

Can you saddle a horse ?' he panted, as they entered the
place, dimly lit by a tallow candle in a swinging horn lantern.

Yes — yes,' was the reply.

Quick then. Everything's ready.'

Each ran to a horse, the head-stalls were cast loose, and
the order of the well-appointed stable stood them in such
good stead that, everything being at hand, in five minutes

the three horses were saddled and bridled, and being led out,
champing their bits.

We've no spurs. Where are the whips ?'

They want no whips,' cried the dragoon excitedly ; * a
shake of the rein and a touch of the heel. They're chargers,
gentlemen. Can you ride, Mr. Linnell ?'

Yes,' was the answer ; and as it was given Linnell's foot
was painfully raised to the stirrup.

He stopped though, and laid his hand upon the dragoon's
shoulder.

The London Eoad?' he said, looking him full in the eyes

The Weymouth Eoad, I tell you.'

Another half minute and they were mounted and clattering
down the lane to turn into the main street, up which the
three sleek creatures pressed, hanging close together, and
snorting, and rattling their bits as they increased their
stride.

Steady — steady — a carriage,' cried Mellersh ; and they
opened out to ride on either side of a chariot with flashing
lamps, andgas they passed they had a glimpse of Lady Drelin-
court being escorted home from the party by Sir Matthew
Bray.

Steady !' cried Mellersh again, as they came in sight of
the cluster of lamps and carriages by Mrs. Pontardent's
gates ; and but for his insistance there would have been a
collision, for another carriage came out and passed them, the

VOL. II. 30

wheel just brushing Lmnell's leg in the road narrowed by a
string of carriages drawn up to the path.

Now we're clear,' said Mellersh; and they cantered by
the wall, past the lane in which the chaise had been waiting,
past a few more houses and the ragged outskirts, always
mounting, and then bearing off to the left as the way curved,
till there it lay, the broad chalk western road, open, hard,
and ready to ring to their horses' beating hoofs.

Now then, forward !' cried the dragoon hoarsely.

At a trot !' shouted Mellersh.

No, no ; gallop !' roared the dragoon, and his horse darted
ahead.

Halt !' shouted Mellersh in a ringing voice, for he had not
forgotten old field-practice ; and the three horses stopped short.

Listen !' he continued, in a voice of authority. ; * they've
half an hour's start nearly, and we shall not overtake them
this stage. We must not blow our horses at the beginning.
A steady trot for the first few miles, and then forward at a
canter. It will be a long race.'

Eight, sir,' cried the dragoon. * He's right, Mr. Linnell.

ake the lead, sir; my head's on fire.'

Forward !' cried the Colonel ; and away they went
through the dark night, but with the chalky road making
their way clear.

After a mile or two the rapid swinging trot of the chargers
grew into a regular military canter, and that, by an imperceptible

change, into a rapid gallop that was now kept up,
for the excitement of the chase told upon Mellersh, and his
ideas of prudence as to husbanding the horses' powers were
swept away as if by the keen wind that dashed by their ears.
I ought to check him,' said Mellersh, as he toned down
his excitement for the minute ; and then — ' No, I cannot, for
I must take that scoundrel by the throat.'

30—2

THE END OF THE Each.

Colonel Melleesh was the only one who was likely to ride
with a cool head : the others were for racing at the top of
the horses' speed. And so it was that before long, asEichard
Linnell sat well down and gave his horse its head, James
Bell, whom the ride was gradually sobering in one sense, but
also making far more excited as he realised clearly the
position of his sister, shook his reins, pressed his horse's
flanks with his heels, and the brave beast began to almost
fly. Naturally enough, the Colonel's steed pressed more
heavily upon its bit, refusing, after the fashion of a cavalry
horse, to be left behind, and forcing itself between the other
two, till the riders were knee to knee, and tearing along as
if in a desperate charge.

We're distressing the horses, Dick,' said Mellersh, turning
his head to his right ; but Bell heard him.

I'm sorry for the horses, sir ; but they are his. Let them
be distressed.'

We must overtake them,' said Liddell between his teeth.

Eight, sir, right,' cried Bell. ' Forward, Colonel. Please
don't draw rein.'

Fortunately for them, the night grew a little lighter, and
along the treeless Down road they thundered. Every now
and then one of the horses snorted as the dust flew, but mile
after mile was spurned beneath their heels and they showed
no sign of distress, but seemed to rejoice in the long night
gallop and the music of their clattering hoofs.

The road was singularly silent and deserted ; not so much
as a foot-passenger was on the way, not a vehicle was seen.

A gate at last came in view as they were breathing the
horses up a hill, after riding for some distance without a word,
the very silence telling the intensity of the men's feelings.

Here was a check, for the gate was closed, and no light
visible, but Bell rode close up and kicked hard at the panel,
till the door in the gatekeeper's hut was opened.

Now, then, quick !' cried Bell. * How long is it since
a chaise and foi' passed ?'

Chaise and four ?' said the man surlily.

Yes, chaise and fom\ Has a chaise and four passed ?'

What, to-night ?'

Yes, to-night. Answer ; quick, or '

He caught the man by the collar, and the evasion he was
about to utter did not pass this hips.
'Yes,' he growled ; ' one went by.'

How long ago ?' said the Colonel.

How long ?'

Yes, yes. Quick, man, quick ! and here's a crown for
the toll. Keep the change.'

This seemed to enliven the surly fellow's faculties, and
he took the money and rubbed his head as he began to
unfasten the gate.

Well, how long ?' cried the Colonel.

Long? Well a good bit ago, sir.'

Yes, yes, but what do you mean by a good bit ?'

Mebbe two hours — mebbe sour and a half. I've been
asleep since.'

Come along,' cried the Colonel, who was as excited now
as his companions. ' There's nothing more to be got from
this lout.'

They left the man leaning on the gate, having gained
nothing whatever by the colloquy but a short breathing
space for their horses, and these continued their gallop the
moment they were through.

They passed a side road now and then, and at the first
Linnell turned in his saddle.

Is it likely that they will leave the main road ?' he said.

No,' was the prompt answer given by Bell, without
waiting for the Colonel to speak. ' They're going west —
far enough, I dare say — and they must change their horses
now and then. We shall hear of them at Sheldon.'

Bell was right, for, when, at the end of another quarter
of an hour, they cantered into the little post town, there
was a Aught still burning in a lantern in the inn yard, and an
ostler proved to be a little more communicative.

Yes, a posthaste — a yellow one — came in half an horn-ago,
and changed horses and went on. Their horses were
all in a muck sweat, and here was one of the boys.

A postboy came out of the tap, and stood staring.

He knew nothing, he said, only that he and his mate had
brought a party from Saltin\dlle.

A lady and gentleman ?' said Linnell sharply.

I d'know,' said the postboy. 'I didn't ride the wheeler;
I was on one of the leaders.'

But you must have seen ?' cried Linnell angrily.

No ; I didn't see nothing. I'd enough to do to look after
my horses. Bad road and precious hilly 'bout here, sir.'

Come along,' cried Linnell angrily.

•' Walk your horses for a few minutes,' said Mellersh
quietly ; and as Linnell and Bell went on he dismounted
and thrust his hand into his pocket. ' Just tighten these
girths for me a Httle, will you, my man ?' he said, turning
to the postboy, and sipping a guinea into his hand.

Certify, sir. Get a bit slack they do after a few miles
canter. Steady, my lad. Nice horse, sir, that he is,'
continued the postboy, who was smooth civility itself.
Must be a pleasure to ride him.'

Yes,' said Mellersh, as the man went on talking and
buckling with his head supporting the saddle-flap. * You
don't get such a nag as that for a leader, eh ?'

No, sir, not likely. Fifteen pounders is about our cut.
That one's worth a hundred. All of a sweat he is, and yet
not a bit blown. You've come fast, sir.'

Yes ; at a good rattling gallop nearly all the ten miles.'

'Leven, sir, a good 'leven, and a bad road.'

Is it, though ?' said Mellersh quietly, as he prepared to
mount again.'
All that, sir.'

Postboys' miles, eh ?'

No, sir; honest miles. We'd charge twelve. Wouldn't
you like them stirrups shortened two or three holes ?' said
the man eagerly.

No, thanks ; no. I'm an old soldier, and we always
ride with a long stirrup. Matter of use. Shall we catch
them, do you think ?'

What, with them horses, sir? Yes, easy. They've got
a shocking bad team. They never have a decent change
here. Lookye here, sir. You put on a decent canter, and
you'll be up to them before they get to Dudley. The road's
awful for wheels for about six miles ; but when you get
about a mile on from here, you can turn off the road on the
off-side, and there's five miles of good, close turf for you
where a chaise couldn't go, but there's plenty of room for a

horse. Good-hight, sir; thaiikye, sir. Good luck to
you.'

Mellersh said ' good-night ' and cantered off after his companions,
his steed needing no urging to join its fellows.

Anyone would think that a guinea dissolved into golden
oil and made a man's temper and his tongue run easily. I
can't prove it, but I should not be surprised if that was one
of Eockley's own guineas. Odd. Running him down with
his own horses, and this own coin. Well, he deserves it all.'

We're on the track right enough, Dick,' he cried, as he
overtook Linnell ; Bell, in this impatience, being a couple of
hundred yards ahead.

Are you sure ? I don't understand this fellow. Why
should he be so eager to overtake that scoundrel ?'

Can't say. Puzzled me,' replied Mellersh drily.

Is he leading us wrong ?'

No. We are well on our way, and shall overtake them
by the time they reach the next posting house. Forward.'

Mellersh did not feel quite sure, but this confidence increased
as he found the postboy's words correct about the
badness of the road, and the smooth turf at the side, on to
which they turned, and cantered along easily for mile after
mile.

Every now and then Bell burst forth with some fierce
expletive, as if he could not contain his rage ; and they
gathered that at times it was against himself, at others

against Eockley. As fierce a rage, too, burned in Linnell's
breast, compounded of bitter hatred, jealousy, and misery.

He could not talk to Mellersli, many of whose remarks
fell upon unheeding ears, while Linnell asked himself why
he was doing all this to save from misery and shame a
woman who did not deserve his sympathy.

But, when he reasoned thus, it seemed as if Claire's
pure, sad face looked up into his reproachfully, and the
thoughts her gentle loving eyes engendered made him press
his horse's flanks, and send him along faster as he said to
himself :

It is a mystery. I cannot understand it ; and were she
everything that is bad, I should be compelled to fight for
her and try to save her to the end.'

Mile after mile was passed, and though the dull thudding
of their horses' hoofs upon the soft turf gave them opportunities
for hearing the rattle of wheels and the trampling
on the rough road, no sound greeted their ears.

We shall never catch them, gentlemen, like this,' cried
Bell at last. * Curse the horses ! Push on. If we kill the
poor brutes we must overtake that chaise.'

Forward then,' said Mellersh eagerly, for there was that
in the young man's voice that cleared away the last shadow
of doubt and suspicion.

They had been on the grass waste beside the road for
quite five miles when, all at once, the way seemed to

narrow ; and they were about to turn on to the road, but
Linnell drew rem suddenly.

Stop r he cried, ' Listen !'

There was no doubt about it. As soon as they drew up, with
their mounts breathing hard, and snorting or champing their
bits, there came on the night air the heat, heat of trotting
horses, and the rattle of wheels.

There,' cried Mellersh, ' that settles it. Forward, again !'

The horses seemed almost to divine that they had only to
put on a final spurt and finish their task, for they went off
at a free gallop, and before long there was the rattle of the
wheels plainly heard, though for the most part it was
drowned by the sound of the trampling hoofs, for the
pursuers were now upon the hard, chalky road.

A quarter of an hour's hard riding and they were well in
-^-iew, in spite of the darkness of the night and the cloud of
dust churned up by the team in the chaise. It was evident
that the postboys were being urged to do their best ; and as
they had put their wretched horses to a gallop, the pursuers
could see the chaise sway from side to side when the wheels
jolted in and out of the ruts worn in the neglected road.

Had any doubt remained as to the occupants of the chaise,
they would soon have been at an end ; for, as Linnell
pushed on taking one side, and Mellersh the other, Eockley's
voice could be heard shouting from the front of the chaise,
and bidding the postboys whip and spur.

It was the work of minutes, then of moments, when
Linnell, who was now leading m a break-neck gallop, yelled
to the postboys to stop.

Go on, you scoundrels ! Gallop !' roared Rockley from
the front window. ' Go on, or I fire.'

The man on the wheeler half turned in his saddle and
made as if to pull up, but there was the flash of a pistol,
the quick report, and as a bullet whistled over his head, the
postboy uttered a cry of fear, and bent down till his face
almost touched the horse's mane, while his companion on
the leader did the same, and they whipped and spurred their
jaded horses frantically.

Stop!' shouted Linnell again. * Stop !'

Go on ! Gallop !' roared Rockley, * or I'll blow out your
brains.'

The men crouched lower. Their horses tore on; the
chaise leaped and rocked and seemed about to go over, and
all was rush and excitement, noise and dust.

Linnell was well abreast of the chaise door now, and
pushing on to get to the postboy who rode the leader, when
the glass on his side was dashed down, and, pistol-inland,
Eockley leaned out.

Back !' he said hoarsely, ' or I fire.'

You scoundrel !' roared Linnell. * Cowardly dog ! but
you are caught.'

Stop, or I fire,' shouted Rockley again, fuming with

rage and vexation at being overtaken in the hour of his
triumph.

'Fire if you dare !' cried Lionel excitedly, as he pressed
on.

Coach !

There was a second flash and report, and the horse
Linnell rode made a spring forward as if it had been list.

The thought flashed across Linnell's brain that in another
few moments the brave beast he bestrode would stagger and
fall beneath him, and that then the cowardly scoundrel who
had fired would escape with the woman he was ready to
give his life to save. A curious mist seemed to float before
his eyes, the hot blood of rage to surge into his brain, lights
danced before him, and for the moment he felt hardly
accountable for his actions.

All he knew was that he was abreast of the wheeler, with
the man whipping and spurring with all his might ; that the
horses were snorting and tearing along in a wild race, and
that Eockley was leaning out of the window yelling to the
men to gallop or he would fire again.

Linnell had a misty notion Mellersh was somewhere on
the other side, and that Bell was galloping behind, but he
did not call to them for help. He did not even see that
Mellersh was pushing forward and had reached out to catch
the off-leader's rein. All he did realize was that Claire
Denville, the woman he loved, was in peril ; that her whole

future depended upon him ; and that he must save her at
any cost.

He was galloping now a little in advance of the postboy.
Their knees had touched for an instant; then his leg was
in front, and he was leaning forward.

Touch that rein, and I fire,' roared Eockley.

Then there was once more a flash cutting the darkness ;
and as the bullet from Eockley 's pistol sped on its errand,
the horse made one plunge forward, and then pitched
upon its head. There was a tremendous crash of breaking
glass and woodwork, and beside the road the wreck of a
chaise with two horses down, and the leaders tangled in
their harness and kicking furiously till they had broken
free.

RICH-IP.D Lineal THINKS HE HAS BEEN A FOOL.

For a few moments, in the suddenness of the catastrophe,
every one was too much astounded to take any steps.
Linnell was the first to recover himself, and, leaping from
his horse, he threw the rein to Bell.

Mellersh followed his example, joining Linnell as he
tried to drag open the door of the chaise, which was over
upon its side with the off wheeler kicking in the front, as it
lay there upon its companion in a tangle of harness.

The framework was so wrenched that for a minute or two
the door would not pelt, and the utter silence within sent
a chill of horror through Linnell.

Let me come, Dick,' whispered Mellersh, the catastrophe
that had so suddenly befallen them forcing him to speak in
subdued tones ; * let me come, Dick. I'm stronger, perhaps.*

Pish !' was the angry reply, as Linnell strained at the
door, which suddenly yielded and flew open, the glass falling
out with a tinkling noise.

Just at the same time the man with the leaders trotted
back with his frightened horses, the broken traces dragging
behind.

Hurt, Jack ?' he cried to his fellow.

No, not much,' was the answer, as the postboy who rode
the wheeler dragged his leg from beneath his horse, and immediately
stepped round and held down the head of the
animal, which was kicking and struggling to rise. * Woa !
will yer. Hold still. Captain !'

With the customary feeling of helplessness that comes
over a horse as soon as its head is pressed down, the poor
animal ceased its frantic efforts, uttered a piteous sigh
that was like that of a human being, and lay perfectly
still.

Old Spavin's a dead 'un, mate,' said the man.
Dead ?' said the second postboy.

Dead as a nit, mate. There'll be something to pay for
to-night's job.'

Anyone killed ?' said the second man in a whisper.

I d'know, and I don't care,' grumbled the man; 'my
leg's buzz horrid. Shutin' like that ! It's as bad as highwaymen.
Here, come and help cut some of this harness.
They'll stand now. Take out your knife, mate, and use it.
They'll have to pay. I can't sit on this 'loss's head all night.'

There's some of 'em got it,' whispered the second man ina
low voice, as he dismounted and stood beside his comrade

watching while Linnell Hated out the insensible figure of
one of the occupants of the chaise, and bore her, tangled in a
thick cloak, to the roadside, where he laid her reverently
upon the turf.

With you directly, Dick,' said Mellersh, still in the subdued
voice, as he climbed into the chaise, and, exerting all
his strength, raised Eockley and half thrust, half lifted him
out, to drag him to the other side of the road.

Is she much hurt, sir ?' said Bell hoarsely. ' I can't leave
the horses.'

I can't say. I don't know yet,' panted Linnell, who was
trying to lay open the folds of the cloak, which he at last
succeeded in doing, so that the air blew freely on the insensible
woman's face.

Linnell's pulse beat madly, as he half closed his eyes, and
kept this head averted while he knelt there in the semi-darkness,
and placed this hand upon the woman's breast.

Then he snatched his hand away and felt giddy. But a
throb of joy ran through him. Her heart was beating, and
he felt sure she was only fainting from the fright.

Why don't you speak, sir?' cried Bell angrily. *Is she
much hurt?'

I think not, my man, only fainting,' said Linnell.
'Well?'

This to Mellersh, who came to him from where he had
laid Rockley.

VOL. II. 31

I don't know,' was the answer to the abrupt query.
Only stunned, I think. Head cut with the broken
glass.'

Not killed then ?' said Linnell bitterly.

No. Such as he generally come off easily,' replied Mellersh.
' What's to be done ?'

Better send our man back for a fresh post-chaise,' said
Linnell quickly. * Will you attend to Miss Denville ?' he
whispered. * I think I'll take one of the horses and ride
back myself for the chaise.'

Why not let me go, Dick ?'

No,' said Linnell in sombre tones. * I've stopped this
wretched flight. My part's done. Mellersh, I trust to you
to place her once more under her father's charge.'

Will not you do it ?'

I ? No. I have done. We'll send this man for the
chaise, though. That scoundrel Rockley may come to again
and be troublesome.'

Lookye here, gents,' said the man who had ridden the
wheeler, * we want to know who's going to pay for this
night's job. My leg's bad ; my 'loss is dead ; and the clay's
all to pieces.'

Wait and see, my man,' said Mellersh sternly. * You
will be recompensed.'

But fine words butter no parsnips, you know, sir. I
want to know '

Hold your tongue, fellow ! I am Colonel Mellersh, of
Saltinville. That man you were di-ming is Major Rockley,
of the — th Dragoons. Of course everything will be paid
for, and you will be recompensed. Now then, which of you
can ride back for a fresh chaise ?'

Well, sh, I '

D n it, man, don't talk. Five guineas if a chaise is

here within an hour.'

Ah, that's business, sir. Come on, mate. We'll be back
before then.'

The man seemed to forget his bruised leg, and with the
help of his comrade the girths were unbuckled, and the
saddle dragged off the dead horse, placed upon the other,
and they were about to start when the first postboy asked
whether it would be safe to leave the injured chaise where
it was.

As it happened, in the struggle it had been dragged ofl:
the road on to the grass border, and lay there, so that there
was ample room for passers-by ; and, satisfied with this, the
postboys were off at a rapid trot.

Father an awkward position if that fellow is seriously
injured,' said Linnell grimly.

Pooh ! man ; it was an accident, and he was engaged in
an unlawful act,' said Mellersh coolly, but with a peculiar
meaning in his tone.

Linnell winced, for the mental pang was sharp. His old

31—2

friend suggested that Claire might have been a willing partner
in that night's adventure.

He made no reply. He dared not, for fear that it should
be an angry retort ; and content that he had certainly for
the present frustrated Rockley's machinations, he walked to
this side, and, seeing that his temple was bleeding, he knelt
down by him, took out his handkerchief, and bound up the
cut, furtively watching Mellersh the while as he stood by
the other prostrate figure on the turf.

Linnell longed to go to her and kneel there, holding her
little hand in his, but he was too heartsore ; and, telling*
himself that there was more dignity in keeping aloof and
playing the manly part of ceasing to care for one whom he
believed to be unworthy of his love, even if he rendered help
when there was need, he contented himself with deputing
the care he would gladly have bestowed to another.

It had grown darker during the past few minutes, a thicker
cloud having veiled the sky, when, as Linnell rose from
where he knelt, he heard a sigh which went through
him.

She is coming round,' he muttered. ' Poor girl ! Poor,
weak, foolish girl ! I '

'Why, Dick!' cried Mellersh in a sharp, angry voice
Come here I'

What is it ? There is no danger, is there ?' cried Linnell,
hastening across the road.

Danger? No,' cried Mellersh angrily. * Whom do you
suppose we have stopped here ?'

Whom ? Miss Denville, of course, and — Good Heavens !
—Miss Dean !'

What is it ? Where am I ? You— Mr. Linnell !— Colonel
Mellersh !' said Cora confusedly, as she struggled up into a
sitting position.

At yom service, madam,' said Mellersh, with a peculiar
bitterness in his voice.

WTiat has happened ?' cried Cora, holding her hand to
her head, and staring wildly round till her eyes lighted upon
the broken chaise. * Oh !'

She said no more, but struggled to her feet, turned giddy,
and would have fallen, had not Mellersh caught her arm and
supported her.

It was evident that she had realised her position in that
one glance, and she seemed to shudder slightly. At the end
of a few minutes, though, she recovered, and, shrinking from
Mellersh, she looked round.

Give me that cloak,' she said calmly. * It is cold.'
Linnell, who was half-stunned by the discovery, hurriedly

stooped and picked up the cloak, spreading it rather clumsily
and placing it upon her shoulders.

Thank you,' she said coldly ; and there was an awkward
pause, during which Mellersh walked to and fro with the look
of a caged v,-ild beast.

*Well?' said Cora suddenly. 'Why are we waiting.
Colonel Mellersh ? Will you kindly see me home ?'

See you home?' he replied.

Where is that man — Major Eockley ?' cried Cora hastily.

I am afraid he is incapacitated for further service, Miss
Dean said Mellersh coldly. * The accident has prevented
him from carrying out — shall I say your wishes ?'

What ?' she replied. ' Do you think I ! Pah !'

She turned her back upon him angrily.

Mr. Linnell,' she said, * you will not insult me if I ask
you to see me safely home, even if I do not enter into any
explanations. Let us go at once.'

There was a strange resentful hauteur in her tone, and
Linnell offered her his arm.

We will walk a little way if you wish it. Miss Dean,' he
said ; ' but we ought hardly to leave Major Eockley in this
state. My friend Colonel Mellersh '

Don't mind me, Dick,' said the latter. * I'll play hospital
nurse, if Miss Dean will trust me with the care of the Major.*

Cora did not condescend to reply, but stepped forward as
if to walk back.

We are many miles from Saltinville, Miss Dean,' said
Linnell, * and a post-chaise will be here soon.'

Further conversation was prevented by James Bell whispering
hurriedly :

It's all a mistake, Mr. Linnell, and the consequences will

be terrible if I am found to have taken the Major's horses.
Can you do without me ?'

Yes,' said Linnell quickly ; ' but your master?'

I can't think of him, sir,' said Bell hastily. * I must
think of myself. Gentlemen, I thought we were chasing
another lady whom I would have given my life to save. I
stood by you ; will you stand by me ?'

Yes,' said Mellersh quickly. * Take the horses back.
I'll stay by your master till help comes.'

And you will not tell upon me about the horses, gentlemen
?'

No,' said Mellersh shortly. * Go.'
And you, Mr. Linnell?'

l^'ou may trust me,' was the reply.

Bell went off with the horses on the instant, and a tedious
time of waiting ensued, the end of which was that it was
arranged when the fresh post-chaise came that Mellersh
should ride with Cora and the injured man back to the
posting house, Linnell walking by the side of the
chaise.

On reaching the inn, Eockley was placed in the landlord's
care, with instructions to fetch a medical man, and the three
afterwards had a perfectly silent ride back to Saltinville,
where Mrs. Dean was found sitting up in a high state of
excitement, and ready to greet her daughter :

Lor ! Bet — Cora — you have give me a turn. I thought
it was a real elopement, and now you've come back.'

Well, Dick,' said Mellersh grimly, as they stood together
in the latter' s room. * What do you think of it now ?'

I think I've been a fool,' said Linnell shortly ; ' but I
can't quite make it out.'

Neither can I,' responded Mellersh, after a pause.

Under A THICK CLOAK.

You'll be so glad to hear, my dear,' prattled on Mrs.
Barclay, who was exceedingly warm and happy. * There's
quite a reconciliation, my dear.'
Reconciliation ?'

Yes, dear. Young Cornet Den\^lle has just fetched her
to take her round the grounds, which is just as it should be,
you know. I'd have gone with them, but I'm afraid of the
night air, and catching a bad cold, you see, and so I think it's
better not to risk taking a chill, and '

Who fetched her — Cornet Denville ?'

Yes, my dear, her brother ; and I've been thinking '

Don't talk, Mrs. Barclay,' cried Cora quickly — ' don't
talk, pray, only tell me which way she went.'

Through that door, my dear, and on to the lawn. You'll
catch 'em if you make haste. Bless us and save us, what
is the matter with her ? Any one would think poor Claire
had run off with her young man. Dear, dear ! what a blessing

to be sure,' sighed Mrs. Barclay complacently, as she
fanned herself, * to have one's own Jo-si-ah, and no troubles
of that kind now.'

Cora was gone — out through the window and on to the
grass. There were couples here and there in the dim light,
but not those she wished to see, as she stood passing her
large lace scarf over her head.

What shall I do ?' she moaned ; and in frantic haste she
ran down the first path she came to, feeling more and more
sure that she was wrong ; but directly after she found that
this crossed a broad grass path at right angles ; and as she
reached it she uttered a gasp, for there was a couple coming
down towards her, and she felt rather than saw that it was
those she sought.

They were close upon her, coming between the bushes,
and Morton was talking loudly, with the thick utterance of
one nearly inebriated, while Claire was answering in a
troubled way.

Very sorry,' he said slowly, ' sorry, little sis. Love you
too much not to 'apologise, but — man's position — as officer
and a gentleman '

Yes, yes, dear, you've said so before.'

And I must say you Hallo ! Who's this ?'

'Claire!' cried Cora, in a low whisper. 'Back to the

house — quick !'

Miss Dean !'

Yes. Quick! For heaven's sake. Go. Your father.'

Cora did not know it, but she had touched the right chord.

Claire had seemed startled at first, and had hesitated as
they stood together in the darkness with Morton holding the
new-comer's arm ; but as Cora exclaimed, as the place of
safety Claire was to seek, 'your father!' the thought flashed
through Claire's brain that he had had some terrible seizure
or, worse, that horror of which he was in dread had come
upon him, and in an instant, she had turned and run back
towards the house.

Why, what the dickens — I say, what's matter?' stammered
Morton. * Here, Miss Dean, I know you — you know
rueful Miss Dean. Proud of your company. Officer and
a gentleman — and take my '

It was so cleverly done that Cora was taken by surprise.
She was about, as the simplest way out of the difficulty, to
take the lad's arm, and walk back with him to the house,
when there was a slight rustle behind her, the sound of a
blow or fall, and the latter muffled and strange, for a great
cavalry cloak was thrown over her head, twisted tightly
round her, binding her arms to her side, and stifling the cry
she uttered ; and as she struggled fiercely for her liberty
she was lifted from her feet and borne away.

It was all done so quickly that she was staggered, and
she had not recovered from her confusion when she felt
herself forced into a carriage — the chaise, evidently, of wliicli

she had heard. Then came the banging of a door as she
was held back by two strong arms, the swaying and jerking
of the chaise as it went over rough ground and ruts. Then
she realized that it swayed more than ever as they turned
on to a hard road, and she could hear the dull, smothered
rattle of the wheels and the tramp of horses' feet.

She was a woman of plenty of strength of mind ; but, for
the time being, the fact of having fallen into this trap laid
for Claire stunned her, and she felt a depressing dread. But
by degrees this gave place to her returning courage, and she
struggled furiously, but found that she was tightly held, and
a deep voice she knew kept on bidding her to be patient —
not to be alarmed — and the like.

In the midst of her excitement she ceased struggling and
lay back in the corner of the chaise thinking, for the adventure
had now assumed a ludicrous aspect. It was dramatic — a
scene that might have happened in a play, and she laughed
as she thought of Major Eockley's rage and disappointment
when he realized his mistake.

I'm not afraid of him,' she thought, * and I hate him withall
my heart. It is only waiting till we stop, and then the
tables will be turned.'

Ah, that's more sensible,' came through the thick cloak.
Promise to be patient and not call out, and I will take off
the cloak.'

It was very hot. She could hardly breathe, but she

dreaded having it removed till she recalled how dark it was ;
that it must be even darker, shut up in the chaise, and that
she had on her large lace mantilla, with which she could
well cover her face.

Shall I take off the cloak?' was said, after they had
stopped and changed horses ; and, feeling that she must
have air, she made a gesture with her hands, passing them up
towards her face as she felt the great cloth-covering partly
removed, and, as it was drawn away, carefully covering her
face and neck with the scarf.

At last !' exclaimed her companion, trying to pass his
arm round her, but she struck at him so fiercely that he
desisted, and just then the chaise slackened speed.

What is it ?' he cried, gripping his prisoner's arm with
one hand, as he leaned forward and let down a front window.

Like us to go on as fast as this. Captain? Eoad's getting
a bit hilly.'

Yes, and faster, you fools. On, quick ! What's that ?'

Sounds like horses, sir, coming on behind.'

Oh, not after us, but go on as fast as you can.'

The chaise rumbled on as the window was drawn up, and
the sound of the horses deadened ; but Eockley let down the
window on his side of the vehicle and thrust out his head.

As he did so Cora listened intently, and made out the
beating of horses' hoofs behind, now dying out, now louder,
now dong out again, but always heard ; and her heart gave

a joyful bound as the thought came that an alarm might have
been given by Morton Denville, and these be friends in pursuit
— Eichard Linnell perhaps.

Her heart sank like lead. No ; she was not afraid of
Major Eockley, and she did not care a fig for the opinion of
Saltinville society. She had been carried off against her
will, and the sneers would be those against Eockley, not
against her.

The chaise might go on for hours — all night, if the Major
liked. The longer it was before he discovered his mistake
the greater his rage would be. What was there to fear ? If
she shrieked the post-boys must come to her help, or she
could command help at the next stopping-place.

And the horsemen coming on ?

Yes, they were evidently gaining ground, but it was not to
overtake her. He was trying to save the woman he loved
he, Eichard Linnell — and her heart sank lower and lower
still.

Then it gave a bound, for there was the click-click of a
pistol, just as before now she had heard it on the stage, and
Eockley said :

That's right. I'm glad you are quiet. I've got you, and,
by Jove, I'll shoot the man who tries to get you away as I
would a dog.'

A LITTLE GOSSIP.

That hat which the Master of the Ceremonies raised so frequently
to the various visitors looked in its solidity as if it
might very well become an heirloom, and descend to his son,
should he in more mature life take to his father's duties.

Stuart Dem-ille had just replaced it for about the twentieth
time that morning, when he encountered Lady Drelincourt
in her chair.

Her ladyship had been very cold since her visit to the
Den\411es, but this particular morning she was all smiles and
good humom\

Now, here you are, Denville, and you'll tell me all about
it. You were there ?'

Yes, dear Lady DreHncourt,' said Danville, with his best
smile, as he thought of Morton and his possible futile. * I
was there. At — er '

Pontardent's, yes. Now, tell me, there's a good man,
all about it. Is the Major much hurt ? Now, how tiresome

I T^Tiat do you want, Bray? You are always hunting
me about with that wicked boy.'

Xo, no,' said Sir Matthew, in his ponderous fashion.
Drawn, Lady Drehncoui-t, drawn. Attracted, eh,
Payne ?'

Sir Hai-ry Pas-ne — * that wicked boy,' as he was termed by
her ladyship — declared upon his reputation that Su* Matthew
Bray was quite right. It was attraction.

I felt it myself, femme, that I did, horribly, madam ; but
I said I would be true to my friend Bray, here, and I fled
from temptation like a man.'

Ism afraid I can't believe you — either of you,' said her
ladyship, simpering. ' But, now, do tell me — no, no, don't
go, Denville ; I want to talk to you. Sir Harris now was
Major Eockley, that di-dreadful Mephistopheles, half killed ?'

Sir Any Payne screwed up his face, shook his head, took
snuff loudly, and, raising his hat, walked away.

How tantalising I' cried Lady Drehncourt. * Now, Bray,
do tell me. Is it tie that he was carrying off that Miss
Dean, and her mother sent Colonel Meters and Mr. Linnell
to fetch them back ?'

Mustn't tell. Can't say a tvord, dear Lady Drehncourt.
Brother officer, you see. But '

Sir Matthew Bray blew out his cheeks, frowned, rolled his
eyes, pursed up his hips, and looked as if he were fully
charged with important information which honour forbade

him to part with, ending by shaking this head at her ladyship,
and then giving it a solemn nod.

I knew I was right,' said her ladyship triumphantly.
"* Xow, didn't yon hear the same version, Denville ?'

Well, I — must confess, your ladyship — that I — er — did.'

Of com-se. That's it. Well, Eockley's a very, very
wicked man, and I don't think I shall ever speak to him
again. I've quite done with him. Yes, you may stay a little
while, Bray, but not long. People are so scandalous. Goodbye,
Dem-ille. Is your little girl quite well?'

Denville declared that she was in the best of health ; and,
as Lady Drehncourt was wheeled away in one direction, so
much fashionable lumber, the Master of the Ceremonies
went mincing in the other.

Saltimille boasted of about a dozen versions of the scandal,
one of the most popular being that which was picked up at
Miss Close's. In this version Cora Dean had no part, bub
Claire Dem^ille had.

For a whole week these various accounts were bandied
about and garbled and told, till the result of the mixture was
very singular, and it would have puzzled an expert to work
out the simple truth. Then something fresh sprang up, and
the elopement or abduction — nobody at last knew which, or
who were the principals — was forgotten, especially as Cockle
was seen about as usual, and the proprietor of the chaise
and the killed horse was fully recompensed by the Major.

VOL. II. 32

How he obtained the money, he and Josiah Barclay best
knew.

But Stuart Denville was disappointed with respect to his
daughter's prospects. It was sheer pleasure to her to be
able to stay quietly at home ; but her father bitterly regretted
the absence of invitation cards, while he, for one,
remained strangely in ignorance that it was his own child
who was nearly carried off that night.

A Terrible Resurrection.

A GENTLEMAN to 866 you, ma'am.'

To see me, Isaac ?' said Claire, starting in terror, and
with a strange foreboding of ill. * Who is it ? Did he
give his name ?'

'No, miss ; he would not give any name. Said it was on
important business. He asked for Miss May first.'

For Miss May ?'

Yes, ma'am ; and I told him she was married, and did
not live here now ; and he smiled, and said '* Of course."
Then he said he would see you.'

Claire had risen, and she stood listening to the man, clutching
the chair tightly, and striving hard to seem composed.

Where is he, Isaac ?' she asked, hardly knowing what fell
from her lips.

In the dining-room, ma'am.'
I will come down.'

Isaac left the room, and Claire drew a long breath.

32—2

Who could it be ? Some one who had forgotten that May
was married, and then recalled it ! What did it mean ?

She stood with her hands tightly clasped, gazing straight
before her, and then walked quickly to the door, and down
into the dining-room, so quietly that the short, slight man
gazing out of the window did not hear her entrance.

Claire was puzzled while for the moment she gazed at the
attitude of her visitor, whose long black hair fell over the
collar of his tightly-buttoned stout, as he stood with one
hand resting upon his hip, the other holding his hat and
tasselled cane.

She drew a breath of relief. It was no one she knew, of
that she felt sure. Perhaps it was no fresh trouble after
all.

As if divining the presence of some one in the room, the
visitor just then turned quickly, displaying handsome aquiline
features, with the olive skin and dark eyes of a young man of
about thirty, who threw down his hat and cane and advanced
smiling.

My dear Miss Denville — my dear Claire !' he exclaimed,
speaking with a foreign accent.

Claire stood as if frozen, gazing at him in horror.

M. Gravani !' she cried at last in a hoarse whisper.

Say Louis,' he said eagerly, taking her hands and kissing
them. ' Why not ? Surely my dear May told you — that
she is my wife. No, no, do not be angry with me. It was

wrong, I know. But you — you were always so sweet and
good and kind, dear Claire !'

He kissed her hands again, and she stood as if in a dream
while he went on — speaking fervidly.

You, so tender, and who loved dear May so much. You
will forgive me. We were so young — I was so poor — I dared
not speak. What would the Signore Denville have said '?
That I was mad. May must have told you — she did tell
you we were married ?'

Yes — yes,' said Claire slowly, ' she told me.'
That is well. And the old man — the good father, she
told him, too !'

No,' said Claire, still in the same slow, dreamy way, as
she strove to listen to her visitor, and at the same time work
out in her own mind the meaning of the horrible situation
in which her sister was placed.

She did not tell him? She promised me she would. But
the sergeant told me he knew that May was married.'

lees,' stammered Claire ; * he knew.'

I ought to have spoken, but I dared not. I was younger
then and so poor. I was obliged to go back to my Italia to
try if I could not win fame there and fortune for my little
flower of beauty — my May-bud. Claire — dear sister — no,
no, you frown — you must forgive us, for we were so young,
and we loved so much. Ah, you are not well. I frighten you.
I came here so sudden. But my news is so good. I have

succeeded so in my art, and I have possessions too. My
poor father is dead. I am not a rich man — what you English
call rich ; but I have enough, and you will forgive me. But,
May ? She is not here ?'

No, no,' said Claire, with her lips turning ashy
pale.

She is not far away ?'

Not far away,' said Claire, * but Louis, Monsieur
Gravani '

No, no, not Monsieur — not Signore. I am Louis, your
fratello, your brother. Now tell me. My heart beats to
be with her once again. She is not changed, I know. The
same little angel face that Eaffaello painted, and that I have
had ever in my heart.'

No, she is not changed,' sighed Claire.

No, she could not change. La mia fiorella !'

But Louis '

Yes ? What ? Why do you look at me so ? She is ill !'
He raised his voice to a wild cry, and his handsome face
grew convulsed as he seized Claire's hands.

No, no,' she cried. ' No, no ; she is quite well.'

Then take me to her now. I can wait no longer. I
must see her now.'

No, no, you cannot. It is impossible,' cried Claire.

Then there is something that you do not tell me. Speak;
you are killing me.'

She — she — my poor sister — she thought — she heard —
she had news, Louis — that you were dead.'

'Dead? — I? — dead? Oh, my poor little flower!' he
cried, with a ring of tender pity in his voice, but changing
to a fierce burst of anger on the instant. * But who told
her ? Who sent her those les ?'

I don't know — I never knew. But she grieved for you,
Louis — because you were dead.'

My Httle tender flower ! Oh ! oh ! it is too cruel. But
I am here — here, waiting to press her to my heart once
more. You shall take me to her now.'

It would be impossible. I could not. It would kill her.
No, you must wait till tomorrow.'

No, no ; I could not wait,' he cried excitedly. * I love
her. I am here. I must see her now.'

Claire felt beside herself, and her hands dropped helplessly
to her side, as if she despaired of averting the catastrophe
that was to come. What was she to do ? — say something
to deceive this man and keep him waiting until she had
seen and prepared her sister ?

The task was hateful to her in the extreme ; and it seemed
as if her Hfe was to be made up of subterfuges and concealments,
all of which caused reflections upon her.

You love May still ?' she said at last.

Love her still !' he cried, with all the impassioned manner
of a young ItaHan. * I tell you it has been desolation to be

separated fi'om her all this time ; but it \Yas our hard fate
and I have suffered, as she has, poor child. But the thought
of seeing her again has comforted me, and I have waited,,
oh, so patiently, till I could come to her again. Now, tell
me, good sister, I must see her — quick — at once.'

No,' cried Claire, * it is impossible. You must wait.'

Wait ?— I ?— wait ?'

Yes,' said Clahe desperately ; and there was so much
thinness and decision in her tone that the weak, impassioned
young Italian was mastered, and yielded to her will.

Not long, sweet sister, not for long ?'

No, not for long,' said Claire excitedly. * It is for May's
sake. You would not wish to harm her ?'

*I? Harm her? Heaven! no. I would die for her,*
cried the young man enthusiastically. * You little think
how we love.'

Then wait till I have seen, and broken the news to
her.'

Broken the news, when my arms are throbbing to embrace
her once more ?'

Go to where you are stapng, and wait patiently till you
hear from me or from May, arranging for an interview.'

Go ?— and wait ?'

Y'es,' cried Lake ; * for May's sake.'

I? Go and wait !' sighed the young man. ' Well, it is
for her. But the old father? Let me stay and embrace

him, and tell him how rich I am, and of my joy. He was
always kind to me, even when I was so poor.'

Impossible !' cried Claire, trembling for fear that her
father should retm^n.

'Impossible? Well, I will go. Actio — actio. I shall
be at the hotel. You will hasten to her, sweet sister, and
tell her my heart has been always filled with her sweet
linage ; that her dear face is in a dozen pictures that I have
painted in Eome. You will tell her this ?'

Yes, yes,' cried Claire desperately. * I will go and tell
her you are here.'

Actio, care mia !' he said, as he bent over and tenderly
kissed her hands, and then her cheek. ' Actio, sweet sister
I am dying till I once more hold her in these arms.'

Claire led him to the door, as if she were in a dream ;
and, as she listened to his departing steps, her hands involuntarily
clasped her throbbing head, and Isaac confided
to his fellow-servants the information that there were strange
goings-on in that house, and that when he liked to speak —
well, they would see.

What shall I do ?'

Claire TAKES STEPS : SO DOES MAY.

What shall I do ?'

The low wild cry of agony that escaped from Claire Den-ville's
breast was heard by none, as she stood motionless,
listening to Louis Gravani's steps till they died away.

Then, trembling violently in an agony of terror and despair,
she rushed up to her bedroom, and threw herself upon her
knees, with her hands still clasping her temples.

What should she do ? To whom could she go for help and
counsel? Mrs. Barclay? Impossible! Cora Dean! No,
no : she could not tell her ! Her father ? She shivered at
the thought. It would nearly kill him. He believed so in
poor, weak, childish May. She could not — she dared not
tell him.

If she had only gone to him at once and shared her secret
with him when May had confessed her marriage, and told
her about the little child, how easy all this would have been
now 1

No ! Would it ? The complication was too dreadful.

Claire knelt there with her brain sunning, and the confusion
in her mind growing moment by moment worse.

She wanted to think clearly — to plan out some way of
averting a horrible exposure from their family ; and, as she
strove, the thought came upon her with crushing force that
she was sinking into a miserable schemer — one who was
growing lower in the sight of all she knew.

She pressed her hands over her eyes, but she could not
shut out Eichard Linnell's face, and his stern, grave looks,
that seemed to read her through and through, keeping her
back from acting some fresh deceit, when something was
spurring her on to try and save poor weak May.

The horror of Lady Teigne's death : the suspicion of her
having made an assignation with Sir Harry Payne ; the
supposed elopement with Major Eockley — all these clinging
to her and lowering her in the sight of the world. There
were those, too, who had noted her visits to the fisherman's
cottage.

It was terrible — one hideous confusion, to which this fresh
trouble had come ; and she asked herself, in the agony of
her spirit, whether it would not be better to wait till the
dark, soft night had fallen, and the tide was flowing, lapping,
and whispering amongst the piles at the end of the pier.
She had but to walk quietly down unseen — to descend those
steps, and let the cool, soft wave take her to its breast

and bear her away, lulling her to the easy, sweet rest of
oblivion.

And May?

She started to her feet at the thought.

And Eichard Linnell ?

He would go on believing ill of her, and she would never
stand up before him, listening as he asked her forgiveness
for every doubt, never to be her husband, but ready then to
look up to her as all that was pure and true.

May ! She must save May. How, she knew not, but
she must go to her. Something must be done.

Hurriedly dressing, she went out, and walked swiftly to
her brother-in-law's house, where the servant admitted her
with no great show of respect, and she was shown into the
drawing-room.

I'll tell my mistress you are here,' said the footman ; and
he went out, closing the door behind him rather loudly.

The effect was to make a little man jump up from the
couch where he had been sleeping, with a loud exclamation.

What is it ? Who the . Oh, it's you, is it ? Well,

what do you want ?'

*I came — I called to see May, Frank dear,' said Claire,
trembling.

Well, then, I just wish you wouldn't,' he said testily.
It's bad enough to have to bear the relationship, without
having you come here.'

^ Frank ! — dear Frank !'

There, don't " dear Frank " me. I should have thought,
after what had occurred, you would have been ashamed to
show your face here again.'

Frank dear, we are brother and sister ; for pity's sake,
spare me. Is it the duty of a gentleman to speak to me
like this ?'

She looked at him with a pitying dread in her eyes, as
she thought of the horror hanging over his house. His
allusions were keen enough, but they were blunt arrows
compared to the bolts that threatened to fall upon his
home ; and, in her desire to shield him and his wife, if
possible, from some of the suffering that must come, she
scarcely felt their points.

'Gentleman, eh? You behave like a lady, don't
you? Nice position we hold in society through you
and the old man, don't we? I'll be off abroad, that's
what I'll do, and take May away from the old connection.'


Yes, do I' cried Claire excitedly. ' Do, Frank, at once.
Xo, no; you must not do that. — Heaven help me ! What
am I saying ?' she sighed to herself.

'Best thing to do,' said Burnett. * Shouldn't have you
always coming in then.'

'Frank dear,' said Claire deprecatingly, ' I have not been,
to see Maw since '

You disgraced yourself on the night of the party,' he
said brutally.

Frank !'

Oh, come : it's of no use to ride the high horse with me,
my lady. I'm not a fool. I repeat it : you haven't been
since the night you disgraced us by inviting that little blackguard,
Harry Payne, to see you ; and it would have been
better if you had not come now.'

Claire winced as if she were being lashed, but she uttered
no word of complaint. It was her fate, she told herself, to
suffer for others, and she was ready to play the social
martyr's part, and save May and Burnett if she could.

As she debated in her mind whether Burnett had not
proposed the solution of the difficulty in taking her sister
away, the thought was crushed by the recollection that May
was Gravani's wife, and that she would be saved and made
happier could she leave with him.

Then the feeling came that all this was madness, and the
position hopeless, and she said imploringly :

Let me see May, Frank.'

What do you want with her ? To beg for more money ?
You've kept her short enough lately.'

Frank ! indeed — — '

No lies, please,' he cried. ' I know you've had at least
a guinea a week from her for long enough past.'

It was true, but the money was for Gravani's child ; and

Claire's face grew hollow and old-looking as she felt that
she dared not defend herself.

I suppose you have come for more money, haven't you?'
said Burnett spitefully.

No — indeed no !' cried Claire.

I do not believe you,' he said brutally ; ' and '

Ah, Claire, you here !' said May, rustling into the room,
all silk, and scent, and flowers.

'Yes, she's here,' said Burnett; 'and the sooner she's
gone the better. I'm going out.'

Very well, dear,' said May. ' But don't pout and frown
like that at his little frightened wife.'

Get out !' said Burnett, ' and don't be a fool before people.'

He shook her off as he said this, and strutted towards the
door, where he turned with a sneering grin upon his face.

I say,' he cried, * I didn't give you any money when you
asked me this morning.'

No, dear, you didn't. Give me some now, before you
go. Don't go out and leave me without.'

Not a shilling !' he cried, with an unpleasant cackling
laugh.

May stood with the pretty smile upon her face, a strange
contrast to the pained classic sorrow upon her sister's better-formed
features, amid perfect silence, till the front door
closed, and Frank Burnett's strutting step was heard on the
shingle walk leading to the gate, when a change came over

the bright, flower-ike countenance, which was convulsed
with anger in miniature.

Ugh ! Little contemptible wretch !' she exclaimed.
^ How I do hate you ! Claire, I shall end by running away
from the little miserable ape, if I don't make up my mind
to kill him. Ah !'

She ended with an ejaculation full of pain, and turned a,
wondering, childish look of reproach on her sister, for Claire
had crossed to her, and suddenly grasped her wrist.

Silence, May !' she cried.

Oh, don't !' said May, wresting herself free, and stamping
her foot like a fretful, angry child. ' And if you've come
here to do nothing but scold me and find fault, you'd
better go.'

May — May ! Listen to me.'

No, I won't. I'll go up to my own room and cry my
eyes out. You don't know ; you can't imagine what a little
wretch he is. I wish you were married to him instead of me.'

May !'

I won't listen,' cried the foolish little woman, stopping
her ears. ' You bully me for caring for Sir Harry Payne,
who is all that is tender and loving ; and I'm tied to that
hateful little wretch for life, and he makes my very existence
a curse.'

May, will you listen T

I can see you are scolding me, but I can't hear a word

you say, and I won't listen. Oh, I do wish you were married
to him instead of me.'

I wish to heaven I were !' cried Claire solemnly.

What ?' cried May, the stopping of whose ears seemed
now to be very ineffective. * You wish you were married to
the little mean-spirited, insignificant wretch ?'

Yes,' said Claire excitedly, * for then you would be free.'

What do you mean by that, Claire ?'

Did you not tell me that Louis Gravani was dead ?'

Yes, of course I did.'

Why did you tell me that ?'

Because he went to Eome or Florence — I am not sure
which — and caught a fever and died.*

Are you sure ?'

Well, dear, he never wrote and told me he was dead, of
course,' said May with a little laugh, * but he told me he had
caught the fever, and he never wrote to me any more, so, of
comes, he died.'

And, without knowing for certain, you married Frank
Burnett ?'

Don't talk in that way, dear. It's just like the actress
at Drury Lane, where Frank took me. You would make a
fortune on the stage. What do you mean, looking at me so
tragically ?'

May, prepare yourself for terrible news.'

Oh, Claire ! Is poor, dear papa dead ?'

VOL. II. 33

May, Louis Gravani is alive.'

Alive ? Oh, I am so glad !' she cried, clapping her hands.
Poor, dear little Louis ! How he did love me ! Then he
isn't dead, after all, and I'm his v^ife, and not Frank's. Oh,
what fun!'

Claire caught at the back of a chair, and stood gazing
wildly at her sister, utterly stunned by her childish unthinking
manner.

May — May !' she cried bitterly; 'your sin is finding you
out.'

Sin ? How absurd you are ! Why, what sin have I
committed ?'

That clandestine marriage. May.'

Now what nonsense, dear. It wasn't my fault, as I told
you before. You don't know what love is. I do, and I
loved poor, dear little Louis. I couldn't help it, and he
made me marry him.'

Oh, May, May !'

I tell you, I was obliged to marry him. One can't do as
one likes, when one loves. You'll know that some day.
But, I am glad.'

May !' cried Claire reproachfully.

So I am. Why, he'll come and fetch me away from my
miserable tyrant, and we can have little pet blossom away
from Fisherman Dick's, and take a cottage somewhere, and
then I can sing and play to baby, while dear old Louis

reads the Italian poets to me, and goes on with his painting.'


A piteous sigh escaped from Claire Denville's lips as she
fervently breathed in wild appeal :

]My God, help me !' And then — ' It is too hard — too
hard. What shall I do ?'

A change came over the scene. The picture May Burnett
had painted dissolved in the thin ah, and she turned quickly
upon her sister.

'How do you know this, Claire? Has Louis written to
you?'

Xo. He is here.'

Here ! In Saltinville ?

Yes, here in Saltinville. He would have been at this
house, only I prevailed upon him to stay till I had seen you
to prepare you.'

Oh, Claire ! Does he know I am married ?'

Xo ; he believes you have been as faithful to him as he
to you.'

Oh !'

It was a wild cry ; and a look of frightened horror came
over the pretty baby face, as its owner caught Claire round
the waist, and clung to her.

Claire, Claire !' she cried. ' Save me ! What shall I
do? Louis is an Italian, and he is all love and passion and
jealousy. I dare not see him. He would kill me, if he

33—2

knew. What shall I do ? What can I do ? Oh, this is terrible,
Change !' she cried. 'Claire!' and she shook her sister
passionately. * Why don't you speak? What shall I
do?'

Claire remained silent.

Why don't you speak, I say ?' cried May with childish
petulance.

I am praying for help and guidance, sister, for I do not
know.'

May let herself sink down upon the carpet with her hands
clasped, as she gazed straight at her sister, looking to her
for advice and help, while Claire remained with her eyes
fixed, deeply pondering upon their terrible position.

I can only think of one thing,' she said at last. ' I must
see Louis Gravani, and tell him all.'

No, no ; I tell you he will kill me.'

He loves you. May ; and I must appeal to him to act
like a gentleman in this terrible strait.'

Don't I tell you that he is a passionate Italian, and that
he would kill me. He always used to say that he felt as if
he could stab anybody who came between us. Oh, Claire,
what shall I do? My poor life's full of miserable troubles.
I wish I were dead.'

Hush, May, and try and help me, instead of acting in
this childish way.'

There, now you turn against me.'

No, no, my poor sister. I want to help you, and give
you strength.'

Then you \Yill help me, Claire ?'

Help you !' said Claire reproachfully. * Did I spare my
poor reputation for your sake ?'

Oh, don't talk of that now, only tell me, what shall I do ?'

You must come with me.'

With you, dear ? Where ?'

Home, to your father's roof; and we must tell him all.
He will protect you.'

Come — home — tell poor papa ? No — no — no, I cannot
I dare not.'

You must. May. It were a shame and disgrace to stay
here, now that you know your husband is alive.'
My first husband, Claire dear,' said May pitifully.

Oh, hush, May ; you'll drive me mad. There, go and
dress yourself, and come home.'

I will not — I aren't,' cried May; * and, besides, this is
my home.'

And Louis ? Am I to tell him where you are ?'

No, no. I tell you he would kill me. I must have time
to think. Didn't you tell me he was going to wait, Claire ?
Look here, I dare not see him. No, everything is over
between us. You must see him, dear.'

See him?' said Claire.

Yes, dear, yes. Oh, Claire, Claire !' she cried wildly,

going upon her knees to her sister, 'pray — pray, save nie.
Tell Louis I am not married to Frank. Tell him he must
go away, and not come back till I write to him.'

May, how can you be so childish ?' cried Claire
piteously.

I am not childish. This is not childish. I know — I
know — tell him this, and he will go away.'

'Tell him this?'

Yes, yes ; don't you understand ? He is very stupid ;
tell him I am dead.'

'May!'

Stop a moment ; you said he was going to wait.'

Till I can give him news of you.'

Yes ; then you must keep him quiet for a day or two,
till I have had time to think.'

There is no time.'

Give me till tomorrow, Claire. Don't you see I am all
confused, and mad with grief?'

Till tomorrow ?' said Claire, gazing at her, for it was
like a respite to her as well, in her horrible doubt and confusion
of intellect.

Yes, till tomorrow. I will shut myself up in my room
till then, and try and think out what will be best. There, go
now. I can't talk to you ; I can't think ; I can't do anything
till you are gone ; and I must have time.'

Claire left her at last unwillingly, but with the understanding

that May was to stay in her own room till the next day,
and await her return.

It will all come right at last, Claire,' said May, at parting.
' It always does, dear. There, don't fidget. It's very
tiresome of him to come now ; but I don't know : perhaps
it's all for the best.'

She kissed Claire affectionately at parting ; and the latter
sighed as she hurried home, struggling with herself as to how
she should make all this known to her father.

He must know,' she said ; and she entered the diningroom
at once, to find that he was absent, though he had been
home while she was away.

Master said he had some business to transact, ma'am,
and would have a chop at the Assembly Rooms. You were
not to wait dinner.'

Claire went to her own room to think.

May had, in accordance with her promise, gone to hers ;
then she had written a brief note, ordered .the carriage, and
gone for a drive, closely veiled. One of her calls was at
Miss Close's, where she entrusted her note, not to some
volume to be sold, but to Miss Close's round-eyed, plump-checked
niece, who promised to deliver it at once.

END OF VOL. II.

BILLING AND SONS, Prints, GUILDFORD.

^/./^

3 ■

\.- i

:-.■:■-^'^/. ^rv.",S^?^

-*r^::Ki,>i-.;-,.,-':



-v >

m^

|:

ife^-

>^;-

X ■•■''-,'

' *^-T

<:W>^7t^i"^S<^\^.' ■:.j^.u

3 ()1'12 045832646

'M

MASTER OF THE CEREMONIES.

Jl ilooel.

BY

GEORGE Danville Penn,

Author OF 'double CUNNING,' 'THE PARSON o' Rumford,' ETC., ETC

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. Il

WARD AND DOWNEY,
YORK STREET, COVENT GARDEN.

1886.

CONTENTS OF VOL. III.

CHAPTER Paget

I. MISS Close IS MYSTERIOUS - - - - 1

II. MISS Close FEELS THAT SHE HAS DONE RIGHT - 13

III. MR. BARCLAY IS BUSY - - - - 17

lY. MRS. BARCLAY HAS HER TURN - - - 32

Y. THE MASTER OF THE CEREMONIES IS STUNG - 42

YL ON THE DOWNS - 56

Il ' TOO LATE ! TOO LATE !' - - - - 66

YIIL THE FRIEND IN NEED - 72

IX. MAY BEGINS TO SEE - - - - 83

X. THE STORM-CLOUD BURSTS - - - - 95

XI. AFTER THE STORM - 104

XII. FROM PARADE TO PRISON - - - - 111

XIII. UNDER Barclay's SHELL - .- . - 123

Xii. FRED Danville FORWARD - - - - 129

XY. FATHER AND SON - 134

Xii. BLOW FOR BLOW - 153

Xiii. ' SURRENDER !' - - - - ' - 162

XYIIL MORTON Danville BECOMES A MAN - - 166

XIX. MORTON BEARS THE NEWS FURTHER - - 174

CHAPTER PAGE

XX. UNDER PRESSURE - 183

XXI. FROM PRISON TO PRISON - - - - 188

XXII. nature's TEMPTATION - - - - 200

XXIII. A REVELATION - - - - - 211

XXIV. THE SELLER OF THE GEMS - - - 222
XXV. THE TOUGH WITNESS - - - . 229

XXVI. BROUGHT HOME - 243

XXVII. A LONG ADIEU - - - - 253

XXVIII. THE EVE OF THE FINISH - - - - 258

XXIX. A TALE THAT IS TOLD - - - - 264

MASTER OF THE Ceremonies.

Chapter I.

MISS Close IS Mysterious.

EiCHAUD LixNELL had left his quiet, patient-looking father
busily copying a sheet of music, and joined Colonel Mellersh,
who was waiting at the door ready for a stroll.

Cora Dean's ponies were in the road, and that lady was
just about to start for a drive.

Somehow, her door opened, and she came rustling down,
closing her ears to a petulant call from her mother, and —
perhaps it was an accident — so timed her descent that it
would be impossible for the gentlemen to avoid offering to
hand her to the carriage.

They both raised their hats as they stood upon the step,
and she smiled and looked at Eichard Linnell, but he did
not stir.

VOL. III. 34

Come, Dick,' said Mellersh, with a half-sneer ; * have you
forgotten your manners ?'

Linnell started, offered his arm, which was taken, and heled
Cora down to the little carriage, the ponies beginning to
stamp as the groom held their bits, while the bright,
smiling look of their mistress passed away.

The ponies look rather fresh,' said Eichard Linnell, trying
to be agreeable. ' I should have their bearing reins
tightened a little.'

Why ?' said Cora sharply, and with a glance full of
resentment : and, at the same moment, she noted that Mellersh
was leaning against the door-post, looking on.

Why ?' repeated Linnell, smiling in her face — but it was
not the smile she wished to see — ' for fear of another accident,
of course.'

What would you care ?' she said in a low whisper. * I
wish there would be another accident. Why didn't you let
me drown? I wish I were dead.'

She gave her ponies a sharp lash, the groom leaped aside,
caught the back of the carriage, and swung himself up into
his seat, and away they dashed at a gallop, while Linnell
stood gazing after them, till Mellersh laid a hand upon his
shoulder.

Dick, Dick,' he said banteringly, < what a fierce wooer
you are ! You have been saying something to offend the
fair Cora. Come along.'

Does it give you pleasure to banter me like this ?'

Banter, man ? I was in earnest.'

They walked along the parade in silence, and had not gone
far before they met the Master of the Ceremonies, who raised
Ms hat stiffly, in response to their salutes, and passed on.

Oh, man, man, why don't you take the good the gods
provide you, instead of sighing after what you cannot have.'

Mellersh,' said Eichard, as if he had not heard him, ' if
I make up my mind to leave Saltinville, will you pay a good
deal of attention to the old man ?'

Leave — Saltinville ?'

Yes; I am sick of the place. I must go right away.'

Stop a moment ! Hold your tongue ! There is that
scoundrel, Eockley, with this gang.'

In effect, a group of officers came along in the opposite
direction, and, but for the disposition shown them to avoid
a quarrel, their offensive monopolisation of the whole of the
path would have resulted in an altercation.

I shall have to cripple that fellow,' said Mellersh, as they
walked on, after turning out into the road in passing the
group. * I wonder young Denville does not shoot him for
this goings on with his sister.'

Mellersh !'

I can't help it, Dick ; I must speak out. Eockley is indefatigable
there. The fellow is bewitched with her, and is
always after her.'

34—2

It's a lie !' exclaimed Linnell.

Call me a liar if you like, Dick, my lad. I shan't send
you a challenge. Plenty of people will satisfy you as to the
truth of what I say, and I speak thus plainly because I am
weary of seeing you so infatuated with Claire Denville.'

Linnell tried to draw his arm away, but the Colonel retained
it.

No, no, my dear boy, we cannot quarrel,' he said. * It is
impossible. But about this going away. Eight. I would
go. It will cure you.'

Cure me ?' said Linnell bitterly.

Yes, cure you. Dick, my boy, it makes me mad to see
you so blind — Jo see you let a woman who looks guileless lead
you — Well, I'll say no more. I cannot believe in Claire
Denville any more than I can in her little innocent-looking
jade of a sister.'

Linnell uttered an impatient ejaculation.

She goes about with a face as round-eyed as a baby's, and
as smooth ; while all the time I know '

Linnell turned to him a look so full of agony that he
ceased on the instant, but began again.

I cannot help it, Dick,' he said. * It worries me to see
you growing so listless over a passion for a woman who does
not care a straw for you.'

If I could believe that,' said Linnell, ' I could bear it ;
but I am tortured by doubts, and every friend I have seems

to be bent upon blackening the reputation of a woman who
has been cruelly maligned.'

sellers began to whistle softly, and then said,
sharply :

What ! going in here ?'

Yes ; will you come ?'

No,' said Mellersh, giving him a curious look. * Expect
a letter? Tut-tut, man, don't eat me. You would not bethe
first man who made a post-office of Miss Close's circulating
library. What is it, then — fiddle-strings?'

Linnell nodded.

Go in, then ; you can join me presently. I shall be on
the pier. I say, Dick, the fair directress of this establishment
ought to put up on her sign, '' Dealer in heart-strings
and fiddle-strings." There, good-bye for the present.'

The Colonel went on, keeping a sharp look-out for Cora
Dean's pony-carriage ; but it did not meet his eyes ; and
Eichard Linnell turned into the library, meeting Lady
Drelincourt, who smiled and simpered as she passed out,
thrusting a book into her reticule.

Miss Close was just disappearing into the inner room,
leaving round-eyed x\nnie in charge ; but as soon as that
young lady caught sight of Linnell, she darted back to
whisper loudly :

Auntie, auntie : here's Mr. Richard Linnell.'

The latter saw no reason why little Miss Close should

flush and turn pale, and then look up at hmi in a wistful
manner, almost with reproach in her eyes.

Why, it's quite a month since I've seen you, Mr. Linnell,'
she said, * and — and you look quite pale and thin.'

Do I, Miss Close ?' he said, smiling. * Ah, well, it's a
healthy sign — of robust health, you know. I want
some '

But you don't look well, Mr. Linnell,' she said hastily.
Annie, my dear, take this book to Mrs. Barclay's, and
make haste back.'

Yes, auntie,' said the girl, in an ill-used tone.

And make haste,' cried Miss Close. ' Will you excuse
me a minute, Mr. Linnell ?'

Oh, of course,' said the young man listlessly. ' Give
me the case with the violin strings, and I'll select
some.'

Miss Close did not appear as if she heard him, but went
to the back of the shop to hurry her niece away, to that
young lady's great disgust, for she wanted to stare at
Eichard, whom she greatly admired, and hear what was
said. Consequently, he was left turning over the books fora
few minutes before Miss Close returned, and, to his
surprise, stood gazing up at him wistfully.

Well, Miss Close,' he said with forced gaiety, ' suppose
somebody were waiting for me to join in a sonata?'

I — I beg your pardon,' she cried, flushing, and turning

her back, she obtained the tin case that held the transparent
rings, and placed it before him with a deep sigh.

Not well, Miss Close ?' said Richard cheerfully.

To his astonishment she caught his hand in hers, and
burst into tears.

'No, no, no,' she cried, sobbing violently, * I am ill —
heart-sick. Mr. Linnell, please, pray come in, I want to
speak to you.'

Why, Miss Close !' he exclaimed.

Yes, you are surprised,' she exclaimed, * greatly surprised.
You, so young and handsome, an independent
gentleman, are astonished that a poor insignificant woman
in my humble position should be always anxious about you
should — should — there, I can keep it back no longer,' she
cried passionately, as she held with both hands tightly that
which he tried to withdraw. ' I must speak — I must tell
you, or you will wreck and ruin your dear life. Mr.
Linnell — Richard — I love you. I love you so that I cannot
bear to see and hear what I do — you are breaking my
heart.'

Miss Close !' cried Richard Linnell, amazed, filled with
contempt, sorrow, pity, all in one. * Think of what you are
sajang. Why, what madness is this ?'

The madness of a wretched, unhappy woman, who has
known you so long, and whose love for you is a hundred
times stronger than you can believe. But hush ! Come inhere.

Some one may call at any moment, and I could not
bear for them to see.'

She loosed his hand, made a quick movement towards the
little door at the end of the counter, and held it open for him
to pass in.

It was a painful position for one so full of chivalrous
respect for women, and the young man stood trying to think
of what to say to release himself in the best way from a
situation that he would have looked upon as ludicrous, only
that it was so full of pain.

You are shrinking from me !' she exclaimed. ' Pray,
pray, don't do that, Mr. Linnell. Have I not suffered
enough ? Come in ; let me talk to you. Let me try and
explain.'

It is impossible,' he said at last sternly. * Miss Close,
believe me that I will never breathe a syllable about this to
a soul, but '

Oh, you foolish, foolish boy !' she exclaimed, bursting
into an hysterical fit of laughter. ' How could you think such
a thing as that ? Is there no love a poor, weak, elderly
woman like I am, could bear for one she has known from a
boy, but such as filled your mind just then ? There, there 1'
she cried, wiping her eyes quickly. * I have spoken wildly
to you. Forgive me. I am a poor lonely woman, who fixed
her affection upon you, Eichard Linnell, farther back than
you can imagine. Listen, and let me tell you,' she said in a

soft, low voice, as she came round to the front of the counter,
and laid her little thin hand upon his arm. ' You lost your
mother long ago, and have never known what it was to have
a mother's love ; but, for years past, your every movement
has been watched by me ; I have suffered when you have
been in pain ; I have rejoiced when I knew that you were
happy.'

My dear Miss Close !' he exclaimed, in a half wondering,
half-pitying tone.

Yes — yes,' she panted; 'speak to me like that. You
pay me for much suffering and misery; but don't — pray
don't despise me for all this.'

Despise you ? No !' he said warmly ; ' but you do
surprise me, Miss Close. I know you have always spoken
very kindly to me.'

x\nd you have always thought it almost an impertinence,'
she said sadly. * It has been. This is impertinent of me,
you think, too, but I shall not presume. Mr. Linnell, I
have something to say to you, and when that is said, I shall
keep my distance again, and it will be a secret between us.'

Why, Miss Close,' said Eichard, trying to smile cheerfully,
* you are making up quite a romance out of one of your
own books.'

'Yes,' she said, looking wistfully in his eyes, 'quite a

romance, only it is all true, my dear. Now, will you come in ?'

He hesitated for a moment, and then walked right in to

the parlour, and she followed him, wiping her red eyes with
her handkerchief.

You will sit down ?' she said, drawing forward an elbow-chair.


He took it from her and placed it so that she could sit
down, while he took another.

No,' she said softly, ' I will stand. Mr. Linnell, please
sit down.'

He smiled and looked at her, full of expectancy, while she
stood wringing her handkerchief, and puckering up her forehead,
her lips parted, and an eager look of pride in her eyes
as she gazed at him.

It is very good of you to come,' she faltered. ' I will say
what I have to say directly, but I am very weak, my dear —
I — I beg your pardon, Mr. Linnell. Don't — don't think me
too familiar. You are not angry with me for loving you ?'

How can I be angry ?' he said quickly. * I am surprised."

You need not be,' she said. ' You would not be, if you
knew more of human nature than you do. Mr. Eichard
Linnell, it is in a woman's nature to desire to cling to and
love something. Why should you be surprised that a poor
lonely woman like me should love — as a son — the handsomest
and truest gentleman we have in Saltinville ?'

It is fortunate for me that we meet but seldom. Miss
Close,' said Richard, smiling, * if you hold me in such
estimation as this.'

I do not see why,' she said gravely. ' You are handsome.
You are brave. Do you thmk I do not know how
you fought that duel below the cliff?'

Oh, tut-tut,' he said quickly; ' let that rest.'

Or how bravely you followed that Major Eockley the
night when he carried off Miss Dean ?'

My dear Miss Close,' said Richard quickly, ' we shall be
drifting into scandal directly.'

She looked at hin pityingly, as she saw the flush upon his
cheeks, and it seemed to be reflected in hers, as she spoke
out now eagerly and quickly, as if she thought there was a
risk of his taking offence and hurrying away.

I will not talk scandal,' she said, standing before him
with her hands clasped ; * I only want to talk of you — of
your future, and to try and stop you before you go wrong.'

Miss Close !' he exclaimed warmly.

Yes,' she said ; * be angry with me. I expect it, and I'll
bear it ; I'll bear anything to see you happy. If I had seen
you taking the downward course — gambling, or drinking, or
intriguing, I should have tried to stop you — tried fiercely,
and braved your anger, as I do now. For I must — I will
speak.'

I have neither been gambling, drinking, nor intriguing,
Miss Close,' said Eichard laughingly, * so I have not deserved
your wrath.'

You are mocking at me, boy,' she said, with spirit.

You think me a foolish, eccentric little woman — half mad,
perhaps. Think so,' she cried, * and, maybe, you are right ;
but, with all my weakness and folly, I love you, Eichard
Linnell, as a mother loves her offspring, and it is to save you
from future misery that I have nerved myself to risk your
displeasure, and perhaps your future notice, for I am not so
vain as to think I can ever be looked upon by you as anything
but what I am.'

There was such warmth and sincerity in her words that
Eichard hastily took her hands.

Forgive me,' he said ; * I am serious, and respect you for
all this, Miss Close.'

She bent down quickly and kissed his hands, making him
start, and then look down on her pityingly, his wonder increasing
as he saw how moved she was, her tears having
fallen on the hands she kissed.

There,' she cried, ' I will not keep you, but I must say
what I have on my mind, even if I offend you and make you
angry as I did before.'

Eichard Linnell looked at her sharply, with his eyes
kindling ; but, without speaking, she joined her hands together
and stood before him as if pleading.

MISS Close FEELS THAT SHE HAS DONE RIGHT.

The woman is mad,' said Richard Linnell, with a pitying
look, and he made a movement as if to leave, but she caught
his hand.

Pray — pray stay,' she whispered, ' and let me — let me
speak.'

Well, speak,' he said, in a low, angry voice, * but be careful
of what you say.'

'It is for your sake,' she whispered. ' You do not know
what I do. It is my lot to hear and see so much. I only
want to take the veil from before your eyes.'

If it is to blacken some one whom I respect '

Whom you love, boy, with a foolish, insensate love. It
is to save you from misery that I speak.'

To tell me some vile scandal that I will not hear,' he cried.

That you shall hear, if I die for telling you, boy,' she cried,
catching his wrist with both her hands. ' Strike me if you
like. Crush me if you will, but you shall hear the truth.'

The truth — what truth, woman ?' cried Eichard indignantly.


The truth about '

Hush ! you shall not speak her name,' cried Eichard
furiously.

It is enough that you know,' said little Miss Close
quickly. * Boy, boy, place your affection elsewhere, and not
upon a woman who is about to elope to-night.'

It is not true,' he cried furiously, * and I am a weak fool
to stay and listen to such calumnies.'

It is true,' said Miss Close ; * and it was to save you from
the misery of discovering all this that I made up my mind
to tell you.'

To have the pleasure of retailing this wretched scandal,'
he retorted scornfully. * Woman, you disgrace your sex by
calumniating a sweet, pure woman.'

It was to save you agony and despair,' she said piteously.
You might never have known of this. People work so
slyly, and in such secrecy ; and if you only knew how jealous
I am of your future, you would not speak and look at me so
cruelly as you do.'

Stop !' cried Eichard fiercely. * It was you sent me that
wretched anonymous letter once ?'

Yes,' she said humbly — * to save you from misery — to
open your eyes to the truth.'

To open my eyes to a lie,' he cried. ' Miss Close, enough

of this. I promised you that I would look upon this as our
secret : let it remain so, and we know each other no more.'

He moved towards the door, but she clung to his wrist.

'That was a mistake,' she panted; *but this time I am
sure.'

I will not listen,' he cried. ' Loose my wrist, woman.'

You shall listen,' she cried. ' Richard Linnell, the post-horses
are ordered, and Claire Denville leaves her home tonight
with '

He did not hear the rest, for he had reached the shop, and
hurried away, nearly overturning Annie, as she came in to
find her aunt in tears.

Oh, auntie, what is the matter ?' she cried.

Look here,' whispered Miss Close, * are you sure there
was no mistake in what you told me to-day ?'

Quite sure, aunt dear. Jane Moggridge told me that there
were post-horses ordered for Major Rockley, and for Sir
Harry Payne, and for Sir Matthew Bray.'

That will do,' said Miss Close quickly. * Now go right
away.'

Annie looked wider-eyed and rounder-faced than ever in
her disappointment as she obeyed her aunt, while Miss
Close stood with her hands clasped to her side, gazing
straight before her.

Have I done right ?' she said to herself ; * have I done
wrong ? It maddens me to see him so deceived — so blind.

It was my duty to awaken him from his miserable infatuation,
but suppose mischief should come after it ?'

She turned ghastly pale, and clutched at a chair.

No, no,' she cried, as she battled with her fears ; * he is
too brave and strong, and he will have Mellersh on his side.
I have done right, I am sure. It is half breaking his heart,
poor fellow ; but better the sharp pain now than one that
would last for life.'

MR. BARCLAY IS BUSY.

JosiAH Barclay sat at his writing-table, looking about the
most uncompromising specimen of humanity possible, when
the door was softly opened, and his man-servant came in.

And nine's seventy-three,' muttered Barclay, making an
entry. ' Hang the woman ! I wish she'd come down and
go on with these accounts. Well, Joseph?'

Lady Drelincourt, sir.*

Humph ! Bless her ! Let her wait. Seen that monkey
again, Joseph?'

'Isaac, sir? Denville's Isaac ?'

Yes, him. Dropped any more hints ?'

Saw him last night, sir, at the Blue Posts.'
Well ?'

Went on dropping hints again, sir, as soon as he had had
a glass or two. 'Afraid he's a fool, sir.'

Nothing to be afraid of in a fool, Joseph, so long as you
keep him at a distance. So he chatters, eh ?'

VOL. III. 35

Yes, sir. Professes to have a mystery. He could speak
if he liked, and there's a deal he could say if he pleased,
and lays his finger on the side of his nose, and all that
sort of thing, sir. That's been going on for months, and
it's what he calls confiding in me ; but it never goes any
further.'

And what do you think of it, Joseph ?'

Nothing, sir,' said Barclay's confidential man drily. 'I
believe it's all to make him seem important. Lived a long
while in an artificial soil, sir, and goes in for shams.'

Barclay chuckled.

Don't give him up, Joseph. I think he does know something,
and it may be worth hearing. I find we can't know
too much. Does he confide in anyone else ?'

'No, sir, I think not.'

Well, don't give him up. Now you can show Lady Dree
in : and while she is here run on to Moggridge's.
He has sent me a hint that a chaise or two are ordered for
to-night. Find out who are going.*

Joseph nodded and went out, while Barclay was muttering
to himself that he liked to make sure none of his sheep were
going astray, when Lady Drelincourt was shown in.

Humph ! I must send for my wife,' said Barclay to
himself. * It is dangerous when Venus invades one's
home ;' and he looked gravely at the overdressed, painted
old woman, with his thoughts dwelling upon her likeness

to Lady Teigne — the murder, the missing jewels — and
Isaac's mysterious communications to his servant when they
met at the Blue Posts to smoke a pipe.

Ah, doctor,' cried her ladyship playfully, ' I've come tolet
you feel my pulse.'

Your pulse. Lady Drelincourt ?' said Barclay. ' Surely
yom ladyship's circulation is not low ?'

Horribly, Barclay. I am fainting for want of the circulating
medium.'

But your ladyship's lawyers ?'

Oh, I can't go to them again, and be bothered about deeds.'

Your ladyship wants acts, eh ?'

To be sure, and at once, Barclay. I want five hundred
pounds.'

A large sum, my lady,' said Barclay warily.

Stuff ! A trifle. Just enough to take me on the Continent
and back.'

Humph !' said Barclay aloud ; and to himself : ' One of
the post-chaises.'

Now, no nonsense, Barclay, or I shall be compelled to
whip you severely with my fan.'

That ought to be a pleasure, madam,' said Barclay
politely. ' But what security do you offer for five mundi-ed
pounds ?'

Security ! and from me, you wicked ogre !' said her
ladyship playfully. ' Why, you ought to feel honoured.'

35—2

I do, my lady, greatly ; but-there,

I don't want to waste my time listening to stuff.
I know what a close-fisted, miserly old wretch you are, and
so I came prepared.'

Prepared, Lady Drelincourt ?'

Of course. I only want a temporary loan, and here are
my diamonds.'

She drew a morocco case from the large reticule hanging
on her arm, and passed it across the table.

Barclay opened the case, took out a glittering necklet,
breathed upon it, glanced at the rest of the contents of the
case, replaced the necklet, and closed it.

Well, monster,' said her ladyship playfully, * will that do?'

Admirably, my lady,' said Barclay, taking a cash-box
from a drawer, and counting out, with deft fingers, a
number of notes. * Four fifty-five,' he muttered, as he
passed the rustling bundle across to his visitor, and slipped
the case and cash-box back.

I must have no nonsense about those diamonds, Barclay,'
said her ladyship, * when I want them back.'

Your ladyship has only to sign this paper,' replied Barclay,
' and hand me £600, and the gems come back to their
owner.'

Ah, Barclay, you are a dreadful ogre,' she sighed, as she
slipped the notes into her reticule. * You are quite as bad
as a highwayman.'

Only more useful, my lady,' chuckled Barclay. * Well,
Joseph ?'

The servant bent down and whispered :

Lord Carboro'.'

Humph !' ejaculated Barclay. * Would your ladyship
object to meet Lord Carboro' ?'

Yes. Horrors !' exclaimed her ladyship. ' Or no, never
mind ; let him come up. I have called to inspect some of
youi- china — these Sevres jars.'

Barclay nodded to his man, who left the room ; and, in
support of her ladyship's suggestion, the money-lender was
saying : * It's an opportunity, my dear madam, that does
not often occur ; the workmanship is unique,' when Lord
Carboro' was shown in, and his keen eyes glittered as he
took in the situation at a glance.

Ah, Lady Drelincourt, you here !'

Yes, I'm here,' she said, * but I've not come to borrow
money ; have you ?'

Yes,' said his lordship sharply. * Barclay, a word with
you.'

The money-lender bowed.

Don't change countenance,' said his lordship, ' and talk
about money. Get out your cash-box, and make believe to
give me some.'

Lady Drelincourt walked to the window with a small
vase, and took out her great, square, gold-rimmed eye-glass.

Money's very tight just now, my lord,' said Barclay
aloud.

That's right,' said this lordship, in a low tone. ' Look
here, Barclay. I'd have waited till that old cat had gone,
but time's precious. Look here. I've had a nasty hint that
hits me very hard. You'll call me an old fool. Well, I
am ; but never mind. I shall never have her, but I love
that girl of Denville's, and, damme, sir, I can't see her goto
the bad without stretching out a hand.'

What have you heard, my lord ?' said Barclay, rattling
his keys and opening his cash-box.

There's some cursed plan afloat — elopement, or that sort
of thing — to-night, I think ; and we must stop it.'

We, my lord !' said Barclay, jingling some coin.

Yes, we. You're an old friend of Denville's. I can't goto
him.'

Who's the man ?' said Barclay.

Eockley, I think ; curse him ! Curse all these young,
handsome men I Damme, sir, if I were forty years younger
I'd be proud to marry her, for she's a good girl — yes, sir, a
good girl.'

Barclay nodded.

But of course I can't expect her to take to a toothless,
gouty old imbecile like me, poor child.'

What do you know, my lord ?'

Oh, only a garbled set-out. I'm not quite sure how

things are ; and sometimes it seems that it's Sir Harry
Payne, sometimes it seems to be Eockley. Now, look here,
Barclay. Will you try with me to stop it ? I couldn't bear
it to come off. If the girl were going to the church with
some true-hearted fellow, I should feel a twinge, but I'd
settle a thousand or two on her, and say, ** God bless her !"
like a man ; but I can't see her go to the bad without making
an effort to save her. Barclay, you old scoundrel, you're
laughing at me, and calling me an idiot for taking you
into my confidence like this.'

You don't think so, my lord,' said Barclay sternly ; * and
you give me credit for being an honest man, or you would
not talk to me in this way.'

Honest ?'

Yes,' said Barclay sharply. ' Am I dishonest for making
all the profit I can out of a set of profligates and fools ?'

'Barclay,' said his lordship, * if that old cat were not here
I'd shake hands with you ; as it is, that kick under the table
means it. Yes, I do trust you, and your good-hearted wife,
too. Will you help me ?'

In every way I can,' said Barclay. * Between ourselves,
Lord Carboro', I've had a hint or two of an elopement tonight,
and I'm going to see what it means.'

You have had a hint ?' said Lord Carboro' eagerly.

Yes, my lord. I must have twenty-five per cent. The
risk is too great,' added Barclay aloud. * Drelincourt's

looking,' he said in a low tone. * I'm not sure who it is
yet, or what it means ; but there's something on the way,
and I'll help your lordship all I can.'

That's right, Barclay. I know you have wires all over
the place, and can pull them. You started Moggridge, and
I suppose, if the truth's known, you could arrange for a
post-chaise to break down anywhere you pleased.'

Your lordship gives me credit for being quite a magician,'
said Barclay drily. ' However, I'll promise you this : Claire
Denville shan't come to harm if Josiah Barclay can save her.'

Thank you, Barclay,' said Lord Carboro' softly. ' I've
not forgotten how she refused those pearls.'

And cheated me out of a score of good jewel transactions
with your lordship,' said Barclay, handing him a slip of
paper and a pen, which the old nobleman took and signed
in Lady Drelincourt's full view. * You trust to me, my
lord. I'll make all the inquiries necessary, and communicate
with you to-night.'

There was a little mock exchange of papers, and then,
pocket-book in hand. Lord Carboro' turned to Lady
Drelincourt.

I have finished my business,' he said. * Shall I attend
you down to your chair ?'

As the couple went out of the room with her ladyship
mincing and simpering, and giving herself airs, Barclay
uttered a low growl.

I believe that old woman would make love to a mummy
or a stone statue if she couldn't meet with a man. How I
do hate the old wretch to be sure !'

*Now look here, Jo — si — ah,' exclaimed Mrs. Barclay,
entering the room. ' I won't have it, though I don't believe
it's true.'

Don't believe what's true ?'

That when anyone is by himself and talking aloud, he is
holding a conversation with — there I won't say whom.'

Pish !' ejaculated Barclay angrily. ' There, sit down,
woman, and make an entry about Lady Drelincourt's
diamonds and the money I've lent on them. Set 'em down
in the jewel book and then lock them up in the case. It
wouldn't do to lose them.'

Like her sister's were lost,' said Mrs. Barclay. * I
wonder what became of them, Jo — si — ah.'

She opened the case, examined the jewels, and then
opened a cabinet and an iron safe within, where she deposited
the valuables, afterwards making an entry in a book kept for
the purpose, and another in the big ledger.

That's done,' she said with a sigh of content. * Why,
Jo — si — ah, what a rich man you are getting.'

Stuff! Don't talk nonsense.'

I say, dear,' she said, * I wonder how it is that Claire
Den\dlle hasn't been here for so long. It seems strange.
Here's somebody else.'

The visitors proved to be Sir Harry Payne with Sir Mathew
Bray, Mrs. Barclay hurrying out to leave them with her
husband.

Well, gentlemen ?' said Barclay drily.

No, Barclay, it isn't well,' cried Sir Harry, ' nor will
it be till I've got a couple of hundred pounds out of
you.'

And I one hundred,' said Sir Matthew pompously.

My turn first,' said Sir Harry, laughing. ' Now, Barclay,
two hundred, and no nonsense.'

Barclay shook his head, but his money was safe with Sir
Harry, for he already held certain deeds that would cover
principal and his large interest.

Now, Matt,' said Sir Harry, ' your turn.'

He thrust a sheaf of notes into his pocket laughingly, and
Sir Matthew rolled up.

Now, Mr Barclay,' he said, taking his friend's seat,
while that gentleman began inspecting china and bronzes,
I want only a hundred.'

Which you can't have. Sir Matthew,' said Barclay
shortly. ' You've got to the end of your tether, and I shall
have to put you in my lawyer's hands.'

What, just now, when I have only to go on to be a rich
man?'

My dear Sir Matthew, for two years past I've supplied
your wants, and you've been for ever dangling before my

eyes the bait of a rich marriage, when you would pay me
back. No more money, sir, from me.'

Barclay, my dear fellow, don't be a fool.'

I've just told you that I do not mean to be,' said Barclay
shortly. * No hundred from me, Sir Matthew.'

What, not if the matter were settled, and it was a
case of postures, Dover, Continent, and a wedding-abroad
?'

With some penniless girl,' growled Barclay.

With a lady of property and title, sir. Hush ! be quiet.
On my soul, Barclay. It's all right and settled. A rich
marriage.'

Stuff, sir ! If it were a rich marriage you would not
need money.'

Preliminary expenses, dear boy. I can't ask her to pay
the postboys.'

Barclay looked at him keenly.

Is this a fact ?'

'Yes; to-night, sir. Honour bright. Don't spoil sport,
Barclay.'

The money-lender pursed up his Hps and twisted a pen in
his fingers for a few moments.

Well, Sir Matthew,' he said at last, ' I'll give you this
chance. If it does not come off your commission is mine.
You'll have to sell out.'

x\nd I will, Barclay. But there's no fear. The game's

won, sir. After a long siege the lady has at last surrendered.'


A young and pretty woman, eh, Sir Matthew ?'

Well — er — not too young,' said the great dragoon * I
don't care for bread-and-butter misses.'

Drelincourt, sure enough,' said Barclay to himself, as he
wrote out the customary form on a bill stamp. * Well, let
the old fool marry him. He'll make her pay for it pretty
sharply, I'll be bound. I shall get my money back, and
he'll save his commission, which will go for future loans.'

There, Sir Matthew, sign that, please,' he said aloud.

Barclay, you're a gentleman. I'm a made man, and you
shall have all the other bills taken up.'

He scratched his name across the bill, passed it back, and
Barclay counted out some notes and gave them in exchange.

That's your sort,' cried Sir Matthew, counting the notes.
Why, Barclay, the bill was for a hundred. Here are only
notes for sixty.'

Quite right, Sir Matthew : the other is for the discount.*
Oh, but '

My dear Sir Matthew, if you are dissatisfied, pray give
me the notes, and I'll tear up the bill. You forget the risk.
Those are my terms.'

Oh, but, Barclay.'

What's he making you smart. Matt ?' cried Sir Harry,
joining them. * Just his way.'

I've offered to cancel the bill, if Sir Matthew likes,' said
Barclay.

Have you got any money at all, Matt ?'
Yes, some, but '

Hang it ! Come along then, man ; we've no time to lose.
Come on and chance it.'

Sir Harry took his friend's arm, and hurried him out, and
Barclay was nodding his head thoughtfully as the door closed,
but only for another to open, and Mrs. Barclay to enter
and sit down, making the entries of his two transactions as a
matter of course.

Old woman,' said Barclay quietly.

Jo-si-ah r she said, turning to him quickly, and laying
her hand upon his.

I try to think Claire Denville a good girl.'

I'm sure she is,' cried Mrs. Barclay. * Oh, Josiah, why
do you talk like that ?'

Because tidings look ugly, old lady, and I shall be very
sorry if you've been deceived.'

Oh, but, my dear,' panted Mrs. Barclay, * I'm
sure.'

One can't be sure of anything with a pretty well-flattered
woman. You know what you said about that row
at Denville's, when Sir Harry Payne was found with Claire
that night.'

Yes : I said it was May, and I'm sure of it.'

You're not sure, old lady — you can't be. Suppose it was
Claire after all.'

I say it was May. Claire Denville couldn't do such a
thing.'

I don't know. I hope not,' said Barclay. ' I want to
believe in her. Well, Joseph ?'

Two chaises to-night, sir, Moggridge says. Sir Harry
Payne and Sir Matthew Bray.'

That will do. Well, old lady ?'

It can't be for Claire, Jo-si-ah, I'm sure,' cried Mrs.
Barclay. * She wouldn't look at that miserable fop.'

Suppose he is jackal for Rockley, old lady?'

Oh, Jo — si — ah, don't. It must be for her sister
May.'

No, I think not. She and Burnett have got on all right
lately, and Payne hasn't been near her, that I know. Look
here, old woman, I won't believe it if I can help it, but it
looks very much as if Claire is really going off to-night.'

Then she shan't,' cried Mrs. Barclay, beginning to cry.
If the poor girl has been worked upon just when she was
poor and miserable, and has been weak enough to consent,
she shall find she has got a friend who will stand by her,
and give her good advice, and stop her. Jo-si-ah, I love that
girl as if she was my own child and '

Well ?'

I shall go down to their house and see her and talk to

her, and I shall stop with her till I know she's safe. That
is, mind, if it's true. But it ain't.'

Well,' said Barclay, * you shall do so, for I don't want
her to go wrong. Only mind this, it is suspicious that she
has not been near you lately.'

Not it,' said Mrs. Barclay, * bless her ! She's had some
reason, and — there, that's her knock, I'll swear.'

She ran out of the room, and came back directly with
Claire, looking more pale and troubled than ever, leaning
upon her arm.

Mrs. Barclay darted a triumphant look at her husband,
and Barclay took Claire's hand in a grave distant manner
that made the visitor wince.

MRS. BARCLAY HAS HEE TURN.

Claire winced again, and involuntarily glanced at the door,
repenting that she had come, as she saw Mrs. Barclay frown
and make a series of grimaces at her lord, all of which were
peculiar enough to a stranger, but which simply meant to
the initiated : ' Go away and leave us together : I can
manage her better than I could if you stayed here.'

Barclay comprehended from old experience all that his
wife meant to signify, and, making some excuse, he shortly
left the room.

There, that's right, my dear,' said Mrs. Barclay warmly.
Men are such a nuisance when you want to have a nice
cosy chat. Why dear, dear, dear, how white you look. Your
bonny face oughtn't to be like that. You've been whirring
yourself over something. It isn't money, is it ?'

No, Mrs. Barclay, we seem to have been a little better
off lately.'

But you are in trouble, my darling ? Now don't say you

aren't, but speak out plain to me. Oh, I wish I could make
you believe that I am a very, very true friend, and that I
want to help you. There, I know : you've been falling outwith
Cora Dean.'

Mrs. Barclay prided herself on this as being a masterstroke
of policy to draw Claire out and make her ready to
confide iu her ; but Claire shook her head and smiled sadly.

No,' he said dreamily, ' I am not in trouble about that.
I thought I would call and see you to-day. There, I must
go now.'

Is that all ?' said Mrs. Barclay in a disappointed tone.
Why, I was in hopes that you were over head and ears in.
trouble, and had come to me for help.'

Mrs. Barclay !' exclaimed Claire.

No, no, no, my dear. What a stupid old woman I am !
I didn't mean that, but if you were in trouble, I hoped that,
seeing how much you are alone, you had come to me for
help and advice.'

Claire's face worked and her lips quivered. She vainly
tried to speak, and finally, utterly broken down with the
agony of her encounters on the previous day with Louis
and her sister, with the following sleepless night and the
despair of the present day, during which she had been vainly
striving to see some way out of the difficulty, she threw
herself upon the breast offered to receive her troubles and
sobbed aloud.

VOL. III. 36

I knew — I knew,' whispered Mrs. Barclay, soothing and
caressing the poor girl by turns. * I knew as well as if someone
had told me that you were in trouble and wanted help.
There, there, cry away, my darling. Have a good long
patient one, and don't hurry yourself. You'll be a world
better afterwards ; and if you like then to tell me about it,
why, you see, you can, and if you don't like to, why, there's
no harm done.'

Even if the amiable plump old soul had said nothing more
than the first sympathising words, Claire's emotion, so long
pent up, would now have had its vent, the tears seeming
to relieve her overburdened brain as she clung to her
hostess, listening, and yet only half hearing her whispered
words.

It was perhaps as well, for with all its true-heartiness
there was a comic side to Mrs. Barclay's well-meant sympathy
; and some of her adjurations to * cry away,' and not
to ' stop it,' and the like, would have provoked a smile from
anyone who had been present at the scene.

There, there, there, then, that's better,' cried Mrs.
Barclay, beaming in Claire's face and kissing her tenderly.
Now you'll be comfortable again ; and now, my dear child,
we're all alone, and if you like to make a confidant of me,
you shall find you can trust me as much as my Jo-si-ah can.
But don't you think I'm a scandal-loving old busybody, my
dear, for I don't ask you to tell me anything.'

'You are always so good to me, Mrs. Barclay,' sighed
Claire, clinging to the ample breast.

Oh, nonsense, my dear. I only offer to be your confidant,
so as to help you in your trouble. For you are in
trouble, my dear — dreadful trouble, and it hurts me to see
you so — hurts me, my dear, more than you think for, so
what I say is — If it does you good to come and sit with me
and be comforted by having a good cry over me, just as if
you were my little girl, why you shall, and I shan't ask you
a single question ; but if you think such a silly stout old
woman can do you any good by giving you advice, or — now
don't be offended — finding you money; or by asking my
Jo-si-ah what to do '

Mrs. Barclay !' cried Claire in tones of dismay, and with
her cheeks flushing.

Ah, that's the way of the world, my dear,' said Mrs.
Barclay with a quiet contented smile, as she drew Claire's
head back upon her shoulder, and stroked and patted her
cheek. * You don't know my Jo-si-ah. He seems a rough
harsh-spoken old money-grubber, but he's the tenderest-hearted,
most generous man that ever lived. There, there,
you needn't speak. I was only going to finish and say Claire
Denville has two true friends here in this house ; and as forme,
here I am, ready to help you in any way, for I believe
in you, my dear, in spite of everything that has been said,
as being as good a girl as ever breathed.'

36—2

Heaven bless you !' exclaimed Claire, nestling to
her ; ' you are a true friend, and I will tell you all my
trouble.'

That's right, my dear, so you shall, and two heads are
better than one. Shall I help you?'

Oh, yes, yes, Mrs. Barclay, if you can. I am so helpless,
so weak with this new trouble, I don't know what
to do.'

No ; and you'll be driving yourself half crazy, my dear,'
whispered Mrs. Barclay. * Why, I know as well as can be
what it is.'

You know, Mrs. Barclay?'

To be sure I do, my dear. Now, why not let me ask
him here some day, and just talk the matter quietly over
with him ?'

Yes, yes,' cried Claire ; ' but he is so impetuous, and the
situation is so horrible.'

Not a bit of it, my dear. Of course, he is impetuous.
Enough, to make him, hearing such things as he does ; but
just you let me get him here some day and have a chat with
him, and then you see him, and try and understand each
other. Never mind about the money, my dear : be poor
and happy. Love's better than riches ; and the happiness
enjoyed by two good people who really care for each other
is — well, I don't want to be single.'

Mrs. Barclay ! What do you mean ?'

Why, that with all this doubts and distances, Richard
Linnell worships you as much as you love him.'

Oh, hush, hush, hush !' cried Claire piteously. * Don't
talk about that, Mrs. Barclay. It is impossible.'

It isn't, my dear, and that's flat. You're being cruel to
him, and more cruel to your own dear self. Come, now,
try and be advised.'

'Mrs. Barclay,' cried Claire wildly, ' you don't know.
My trouble now is far greater than anything about self ;'
and, clinging to the only friend she seemed to have, she told
her all.

Mrs. Barclay sat with wide-open eyes to the very end,
and then, in the midst of the terrible silence, she took out a
violently-scented pocket-handkerchief, and wiped the dew
from her brow, as she said softly :

Oh, my gracious me I'

It has driven me nearly mad,' cried Claire, wringing her
hands, * and while I stay here something terrible may have
happened. I must go — I must go.'

No, no ; sit still, my dear,' cried Mrs. Barclay, drawing
her back to her side, and speaking in a quick, business-like
way. ' I was quite knocked over by what j^ou said. My
poor, dear child ! Is there to be no end to your troubles ?
But there, we mustn't talk nonsense, but act sensibly. This
is like a smash — a sort of bankruptcy, only it's what Jo-si-ah
would call social and not monetary. There, there, it's a

terrible business, but I'm glad you've had the courage to tell
me. Oh, my dear, I've always said to Jo-si-ah that she was
a wicked little thing who was getting you into trouble.
But let that go. Now, then, what to do first? Your poor
father don't know a word ?'

I have not dared to tell him.'

No, and you've been screening her, and taking care of
that little one, and — dear — dear — what a world this is !
Tut — tut — tut ! I am doing nothing but talk. Now, look
here, Claire ; the first thing that strikes me is that she must
be got away — right away — for the present.'

Yes, yes ; but how ?' cried Claire.

Jo-si-ah shall settle that.'

Mr. Barclay !' cried Claire in terror.

To be sure, my dear. We want a strong man to act ina
case like this. Your sister must be got away somewhere,
and you must go with her. You had both better go to-night.
No one shall know where you are but Jo-si-ah and me, and
you can take care of her until Jo-si-ah has told your father
all about it.'

Yes,' sighed Claire, as her companion's calm, businesslike
manner impressed her.

If we tell him first he will do no good, poor man, only be
horribly upset, and there'll be no end of scenes, and no
business done.'

Claire acquiesced with a look.

Then Jo-si-ah can settle it all with your father and Mr.
Burnett, and this Mr. Gravani, what is to be done in a busi-
ness-like way. There, there, let me finish. The weak
little thing has got herself into this dreadful tangle, and
what we have to do is to get her out the best way we can.
It's of no use to be sentimental and sit down and cry ; we
must act like women.'

Claire looked at her in admiration, astounded by her
friend's calm, business-like manner.

Now, perhaps, my dear, my Jo-si-ah may upset all my
plans by proposing something better ; but, as far as I see it
now, you had better go straight off to your sister May — it
will soon be dusk — and bring her here. I'll be ready and
waiting, and I'll go with you both to the coach. You had
better put on veils, and we'll go right away to London. It's
the best place to hide, as my Jo-si-ah knows with the people
who don't pay him. Yes, that's best. I'll go with you.'

You will go with us, Mrs. Barclay ?'

Of course, I shall, my dear, and stay with you till you're
out of your trouble, and Jo-si-ah has finished the business.
Did you think I was a fine-weather friend ?'

Claire could not speak ; her kisses and clinging arms
spoke her thanks.

Yes, that's as far as I can see it, and we must be quick.*
She rose to go to the bell.

What are you going to do ?' cried Claire, in alarm.

Being for Jo — si — ah, and to send our Joseph to book
three seats for the coach.*

But Mr. Barclay ? Must you tell hmi— now ?' faltered
Clause.

Why, of course, my dear, or we may be too late. Do
you know that some one else is evidently making plans?'

What do you mean ?' cried Claire excitedly.

We know a great deal here, my dear. My husband has
to keep an eye upon the slippery people who borrow money
of him ; and there was a hint brought here to-day that a
certain gentleman was going to elope to-night with a certain
lady, and the idea was that you were the lady. We know
it was Sir Harry Payne.'

Claire caught at her friend's arm as she went on.

But I said "■ No ;" it is only a miserable scandal, based
upon that wretched business at your house. *rit's Mrs.
Burnett," I said, *'if it's anyone." Claire, my dear, she is
in this dreadful fix, and she is going off to-night with that
fop to escape from it.'

Claire's lips parted as she looked at the speaker in horror,
realizing it all now, and reading May's excuse to gain
time.

For a moment the deceit and cruelty of the act seemed
too horrible ; but she was now thoroughly realizing the
nature of her sister, and was so agitated that she felt almost
paralyzed as she stood gazing straight before her.

I cannot believe it, Mrs. Barclay,' she said at last. * It
is too terrible. My poor sister would never be so base.'

Go at once, my dear. Stand no nonsense with the little
thing. I'll settle it all with my Jo-si-ah. You bring her here.'

Claire was white as ashes now, as she caught Mrs. Barclay's
hands and kissed them.

No, no, my dear ; not my hands. There, go, and heaven
bless you. We'll help you through it, never fear.'

She folded Claire in her arms for a moment, and then
hurried with her downstairs, and let her out.

One moment, my dear,' she whispered, detaining her, to
thrust her purse in her hand. * Stop for nothing. Bring
her here ; drag her if she says she will not come. Say anything,
but bring her here.'

Ah !' sighed Mrs. Barclay, as she watched Claire disappear
down the street, and then closed the door. ' Now
for Jo-si-ah.'

THE MASTER OF THE CEREMONIES IS STUNG.

JosiAH Barclay was in his business room when his wife
returned, panting and wiping her eyes, and he gave her one
of his grim looks.

Well, old woman, I was right, wasn't I ?'

No, Jo-si-ah.'
' Then you didn't get it all out of her ?'
* Oh, yes, everything, dear. She told me all, and it is
that wicked — wicked little woman. May.'

She told him all that had passed, and he stood and
stared at her, blowing out his cheeks, and then looking his
hardest.

Let me see,' he said, when she had done speaking. ' May
Burnett is, of course, my own child by my first wife.'

Jo-si-ah ! Why, you never had no first wife.'
Nonsense, woman.'

Nonsense, Jo-si-ah ! Do you mean to tell me — now, how
can you ? Why, we've been married over thirty years, and

that wicked little hussy isn't above twenty. How can you
talk such stuff?'

You set me going,' he said grimly. * You talked as if
May Burnett must be my own flesh and blood.'

I didn't, Jo-si-ah. What do you mean ?'

Why you want me to mix myself up in this miserable
scandal over a wretched, frivolous, heartless wench, spend
my hard-earned money, and let you go off on a sort of wild
goose chase with her and Claire Denville. I thought you
had found out that she really was my own flesh and blood.'

Mrs. Barclay wiped her eyes, and indulged in one of her
laughs — a blancmange sort of laugh — as she sat back in the
chair vibrating and undulating all over, while her husband
watched her with the most uncompromising of aspects till
she rose.

What a man you are,' she said at last. * But there, don't
let's waste time. You will help us, dear, won't you?'

'Us?'

Yes ; us, Josiah. Don't you think what I have proposed
is the best ?'

Well, yes,' he said slowly. ' I do not think I could
suggest anything better.'

I am glad,' she said. * Then send Joseph at once, and
take three seats for London.'

You mean to go, then ?'

Yes, dear, of course.'

*■ And what's to become of me ?'

'You will stop and see Mr. Bm-nett, and this Mr. Gravani,
and poor Mr. Denville, and settle the matter the best way
you can.'

For May Burnett's sake T

No, dear : for mine and poor Claire Denville's ; and look
here, Jo-si-ah, you just beg her pardon, sir.'

If I do I'll be '

Hush ! Stop, sir. I don't mean to her. Now, just you
own that you have misjudged her.'

Humph ! Well, perhaps I have.'

That's right, dear ; and you will do your best now, won't
you?'

I tell you what, woman ; I've read about men being fooled
by their wives and turned round the thumb ; but the way you
turn me round beats everything I ever did read.'

Yes,' she said, nestling to his side. * I like turning you
round my thumb, dear ; and let's always go on to the end
just the same, Jo-si-ah ; and you'll let me try to do some good.'

Humph !' ejaculated Barclay, in his grimmest manner.
But, don't you see, old lady, that this May Burnett is a
worthless sort of baggage ?'

I can't see anything, dear, only that poor Claire Denville,
whom I love very much, is in great trouble, and that we are
wasting time.'

Wasting love, you mean,' cried Barclay. ' If you've got

so much love to spare, why don't you pour it on my devoted
head, to wash away some of the hate which people bestow
upon me ?'

Jo-si-ah dear ! Please.'

All right,' he said grimly. * I'll do it, old lady. Let's
see ; the coach goes at half-past eleven. You've plenty of
time. I'll send Joseph. But tell me, where are you going T

To the Bell, in Lowborn, dear, for the first day. Then I
shall take apartments somewhere till it is all settled.'

But the expense, woman ?'

I've plenty of jewels, dear. Shall I sell something ?'

Yes, you'd better !' he said grimly. * There, I suppose
you must do as you like.'

She nodded and kissed him affectionately, while he seemed
to look less firm in the pleasant light shed by her eyes as he
handed her the keys of his cash-box.

Now then, dear,' she said, ' business. Bless us ! Who's
that ?'

There was a sharp rolling knock at the door, and they
stood listening.

I hope we're not too late, dear,' whispered Mrs. Barclay
excitedly.

Denville's voice for a guinea,' cried Barclay.

Then you can tell him all, and you two can go and stop
any attempt the silly little woman may make to run away.'

Mr. Denville, sir,' said Joseph, ushering in the Master of

the Ceremonies, very pale and careworn under his smiling
guise, as he minced into the room, hat in one hand, snuff-box
in the other, and his cane hanging by its silken cord and
tassels from his wrist.

My dear Mrs. Barclay, your very humble servant. My
dear Barclay, yours. It seems an age since we met.'

Oh, poor dear man !' sighed Mrs. Barclay to herself. ' He
can't know a word.'

She exchanged glances with Barclay, who gave her a nod.

You will excuse me, Mr. Denville,' she said. ' A little business
to attend to. I'll come back and see you before you go.'

I should apologise,' said Denville, smiling and bowing ashe
hastened to open the door for her to pass out ; and as he
closed it he groaned as he said to himself :

She does not ask after my children.'

Sit down, Denville,' said Barclay ; ' you've come to pay
me some money, eh ?'

Well — er — the fact is — no, Barclay, not just at present.
I must ask you to give me a little more time. Morton, my
son, you see, is only just launched. He is getting on, but at
present I must ask a little forbearance. Interest, of course,
but you will wait a little longer ?'

Humph ! Well, I suppose I must, and — come, Denville,
out with it. What's the matter, man ? Some fresh trouble T

Denville had been playing uneasily with his snuff-box, and
taking up and setting down his hat, glancing nervously about

the room. As Barclay spoke in this abrupt way to him, he
started and stared wildly at the speaker.

Oh ! nothing, nothing,' he said, smiling. ' I was only
coming this way. Ha — ha — ha ! my dear Barclay, you
thought I wanted a little accommodation. No, no, not this
time. The fact is, I understood that my daughter, Miss
Denville, had come on here. I expected to find her with
Mrs. Barclay — a lady I esteem — a lady of whom my daughter
always speaks most warmly. Has she — er — has she
called here this evening ?'

Miss Denville was here a short time since.'
And has gone ?' said Denville nervously. * She — she — is
coming back here ?'

I think so. Yes, I believe my wife said she was ; but,
hang it, Denville, why don't you speak out, man ? What's
the matter? Perhaps I can help you.'

Help me ?' faltered the miserable man. * No ; it is not a
case where money could assist me.'

Money, sir ! I offered the help of a friend,' said Barclay
warmly. * Come, speak out. You are in trouble.'

Denville looked at him hesitatingly, but did not
speak.

I don't ask for your confidence,' said Barclay, * but you
have done me more than one good turn, Denville, and I want
to help you if I can.'

Still the old man hesitated; but at last he seemed to

master his hesitation, and, catching the other's sleeve, he
whispered :

A scandalous place, my dear Barclay. I used to smile
at these things, hut of late my troubles have a good deal
broken me down. I am changed. I know everybody, but I
have no friends, and — there, I confess it, I came to speak to
your wife, to ask her advice and help, for at times I feel as if
the kindly words and interest of some true woman would
make my load easier to bear.'

Nothing like a good friend,' said Barclay gruffly.

Yes — exactly. You'll pardon me, Barclay; you have
been very kind, but your manner does not invite confidence.
I feel that I cannot speak to you as I could wish.'

Try,' said Barclay, taking his hand. ' Come, you are in
trouble about your daughter.'

Yes,' cried Denville quickly. * How did you know ?'

Never mind how I know. Now then, speak out, what
do you know ?'

Only that there is some fresh gossip afloat, mixing up
my daughter's name with that of one of the reckless fops of
this place.'

Claire Denville's ?'

Yes, my dear sir. It is most cruel. These people do not
think of the agony it causes those who love their children.
I heard that my child had come here — ah, here is Mrs. Barclay
back. My dear madam, I came to bear my daughter

company home, to stay with her, and to show these wretched
scandal-mongers that there is no truth in the story that has
been put about.'

Have you told him, Jo-si-ah ?'

No, madam,' cried Denville ; * there was no need. Some
cruel enemy contrived that I should hear of it — this wretched
scandal. But you'll pardon me — the lies, the contemptible
falsehoods of the miserable idlers who find pleasure in such
stories. My daughter Claire has been maligned before.
She can bear it again, and by her sweet truthfulness live
down all such falsities.'

But, Mr. Denville !' cried Mrs. Barclay.

Hush, ma'am, pray. A father's feelings. You'll pardon
me. We can scorn these wretched attacks. My child
Claire is above them. I shall take no notice ; I wished,
however, to be by her side. She will return here, you say?'

Yes, yes, my dear good man,' cried Mrs. Barclay ; * but
you are blinding yourself to the truth.'

No, ma'am, you'll pardon me. My eyes have long been
open to the truth. I know. They say that my dear child
Claire is to elope to-night with Sir Harry Payne. I had a
letter from some busybody to that effect ; but it is not true.
I say it is not true.'

No, Mr. Denville, it is not true,' cried Mrs. Barclay
warmly. * Our dear Claire — your dear Claire — is too good
a girl, and the wretches who put this about ought to be

VOL. III. 37

punished. It is not dear Claire who is believed to be going
to-night, but '

You'll pardon me,' cried Denville, turning greyer, and
with a curious sunken look about his eyes. * Not a word,
please. The scandal is against some one else ? I will not
hear it, ma'am. Mrs. Barclay, I will not know. Life is
too short to mix ourselves up with these miserable scandals.
I will not wait, Barclay. It is growing late. I shall probably
meet my daughter, and take her back. If I do not, and
she should come here, might I ask you to see her home ?'

Yes, Denville, yes ; but, look here, we have something
to tell you. Wife, it is more a woman's work. You can doit
more kindly than I.'

You'll pardon me,' said Denville, looking from one to the
other, and smiling feebly. ' Some fresh story about my
daughter? Is it not so, Mrs. Barclay?'

Yes, yes, Mr. Denville,' she whispered ; * and you ought
to know, though I was going to leave my Jo-si-ah to tell you.'

Always good and kind to me and my family, dear Mrs.
Barclay,' said Denville, smiling, and bending over the plump
hand he took, to kiss it, with chivalrous respect. * But no
no more tales, my dear madam ; the chronicles of Salting
are too full of scandals. No, no, my dear Mrs. Barclay;
my unfortunate house can live it down.'

He drew himself up, took a pinch of snuff with all the
refined style and air of the greatest buck of the time, and

handed his box to Barclay, who took it, mechanically helped
himself noisily, and handed it back.

The old man's half mad,' he muttered, as he looked at
him.

But Mr. Denville,' cried Mrs. Barclay pleadingly ; ' you
ought to know — you must know.'

Nonsense, madam, nonsense !' cried Denville, with his
most artificial manner reigning supreme, as he flicked away
a tiny speck of dust from this frill. * We can laugh at these
things — we elderly people, and treat them as they deserve.'


But, Mr. Denville '

No, dear madam, no ; I protest,' he continued, almost
playfully.

Jo-si-ah, time's flying,' cried Mrs. Barclay, in a pathetic
manner that was absolutely comic. * What am I to say to
this man ?'

Tell him,' said Barclay sternly.

Ah !' ejaculated Mrs. Barclay, with a long sigh, as if she
shrank from her task. * It must be done. Dear Mr. Den-ville,
I don't like telling you, but Mrs. Burnett '

Denville reeled, and caught at Barclay's arm.

Hold up, old fellow ! Be a man,' cried the moneylender,
supporting him.

The old man recovered himself, and stood up very erect,
turning for a moment resentfully on Barclay, as if angry

37—2

;y OF ILL Uti.

that he should have dared to touch him. Then, looking
fiercely at Mrs. Barclay :

Hush, ma'am !' he cried. * Shame, shame ! How can
you — you who are so true and tender-hearted — let yourself
be the mouthpiece of this wretched crew?'

But indeed, Mr. Denville '

Oh, hush, ma'am, hush ! You, who know the people so
well. Mrs. Burnett — my dear sweet child. May — the idol of
my very life — to be made the butt now at which these
wretches shoot their venomous shafts. Scandals, madam ;
scandals, Barclay. Coinage from the very pit. A true,
sweet lady, sir. Bright as a bird. Sweet as some opening
flower. And they dare to malign her with her bright,
merry, innocent ways — that sweet young girl wife. Oh,
shame ! Shame upon them ! Shame !'

Oh, Denville, Denville,' said Barclay softly, as he laid
his hand upon the old man's shoulder.

Ah !' he cried, * even you pity me for this. Dear Mrs.
Barclay, I ought to be angry with you : but no, I will not.
You mean so well. But it is all I have — in a life so full of
pain and suffering that I wonder how I live — the love of my
daughters — them to defend against the world. Madam, you
are mistaken. My daughter — an English lady — as pure as
heaven. But I thank you — I am not angry — you mean well.
Always kind and helpful to my dear child, Claire. Ha, ha
ha!'

It was a curious laugh, full of affectation ; and he took
snuff again with all the old ceremony ; but he did not close
the box with a loud snap, and as his hand fell to his side,
the brown powder dropped in patches and flakes here and
there upon the carpet.

Ha, ha, ha !' he laughed again. ' Calumnies, madam — I
say it as I take my leave — the calumnies of false fribbles
and endows women. Busy again with my dear children's
names. But we must live it down. Elopement ! Pshaw !
The coxcombs ! The Jezebels ! My child ! Oh, I cannot
mention her sweet, spring-flower name in connection with
such a horror. It is atrocious.'

Denville,' said Barclay, in answer to an appealing look
from his wife.

No, no ! Not a word, sir, not a word,' cried Denville,
raising his hand. ' It is too absurd — too villainous. Madam,
it is from your good heart that this warning comes. I thank
you, ma'am, you meant to put me on my guard. Barclay,
adieu, my good friend. You'll shake hands. You'll take no
notice of this slight emotion — this display of a father's indignation
on hearing such a charge. Mrs. Barclay, if I have
spoken harshly, you'll forgive me. I don't blame you, dear
madam. Ait revoir ! No, no; don't ring, I beg. I pray
you will not come down. You'll banish all this — from your
thoughts '

He stopped short and reeled again, dropping snuff-box,

hat, and cane as he clasped his hands to his head, staring
wildly before him. The feeble affected babble ceased suddenly,
and it was another voice that seemed to come from
his lips as he exclaimed loudly in hot anger :

It is a lie ! You — May ! The girl I've loved so well —
you ! When my cup) of suffering is brimming over. A lie
a lie, I say. Ah !'

His manner changed again ; and now it was soft and full
of wild appeal, as he cried :

May — May ! My darling ! God help me, poor broken
dotard that I am ! Shall I be in time?'

He made a dash for the door, but staggered, and would
have fallen had not Barclay caught him and helped him to
a chair, where he sat gazing before him as if at some scene
passing before his eyes.

Blood,* he whispered at last, * to the head. Help me,
Barclay, or I shall be too late.'

'No, stay here. I'll go and do all I can.'

No !' cried Denville fiercely. * I am her father, Barclay;
we may save her — if I go too.'

He rose with nervous energy now, and gripping the moneylender's
arm they went together out into the dark street,,
where, indignantly refusing further help, the old man strode
off, leaving Barclay watching him.

I don't hardly know what to do,' he said musingly. 'Ah I
who are you ?'

'His lordship's man, sir,' said a livery servant. 'Lord
Carboro' says could you make it convenient to come to him
directly?'

No, I'm busy. Well, yes, I will. Is he at home?'

No, sir; at the reading-room.'

Go on, then,' said Barclay. ' Tell his lordship I'll be
there directly.'

The man went off, and Barclay hurried indoors to speak
with his wife, and came out five minutes later to join the
old nobleman at the reading-room that answered the purpose
of a club.

ON THE DOWNS.

High up on the Downs behind the town lay a patch of wood,
dwarfed and stunted in its growth by the sharp breezes that
came off the sea. The soil in which they grew, too, was exceedingly
shallow ; and, as the chalk beneath was not very generous
in its supply of nutriment, the trees sent their roots along
the surface, and their low-spreading branches inland, with a
few shabby twigs seaward to meet the cutting blasts.

Eight through this patch of thick low wood ran the London
Eoad, and across it the coast road, going west, while a tall
finger-post that had once been painted stood with outstretched
arms, bending over a little old grey milestone,
as if it were blessing it for being so humble and so
small.

It was along this road that Eichard Linnell, Mellersh, and
James Bell had cantered, and then turned off at the cross,
on the night of their pursuit, and the chalky way looked
much the same beneath twinkling stars on the night succeeding

the day when Louis Gravaiii had had his interview with
Claire, as on that of Mrs. Pontardent's party.

The similarity was increased by the presence of a yellow
post-chaise ; but it was not drawn up at the back of Mrs.
Pontardent's garden, but here on the short turf close up to
the trees and opposite the finger-post.

The chaise, an old yellow weather-beaten affair, seemed
to be misty, and the horses indistinct in the darkness, looking
quite the ghost of a vehicle that might be expected to
fade away like a trick of the imagination, everything was so
still. The very horses were asleep, standing bent of knee
and with pendent heads. One of the wheelers, however,
uttered a sigh now and then as if unhappy in its dreams, for
it was suffering not from nightmare, a trouble that might
have befallen any horse, but from the weight of the sleeping
post-boy on its back. The man evidently believed in his
steed as an old friend, and had lain forward over the pommel
of his saddle, half clasping the horse's neck, and was sleeping
heavily, while this companion, who rode one of the leaders,
had dismounted and seated himself upon the turf where
the road was cut down through the chalk, so that his
legs were in the channel and this back against a steep
bank.

They had been asleep quite an hour, when a quick step
was heard, a misty-looking figure in a long grey wrapper,
and closely veiled, came along the road, stopped short by

the post-boys, retreated and whispered softly as the turf
opposite was reached :

Hist ! Are you there ? Oh, gracious ! What a wicked
girl I am ! He has not come.'

The figure seemed to take courage and approached the
chaise again.

He may be inside,' she said softly, and going on tip-toe
to the door her hand was raised to the fastening, when one
of the wheelers snorted and half roused the mounted postboy.


Hullo, then, old gal,' he muttered loudly. ' Yo — yo — yo
^^yo— y o ! Gate — gate . '

What shall I do ?' exclaimed the veiled figure, and she
seized one of the spokes of the wheel and clung to it as the
other post-boy, slightly roused by his companion, took up his
cry and shouted drowsily :

Yo — yo — yo — yo — yo ! Gate — gate !'

The horses sighed, and the men subsided into their nap,
a long ride on the previous evening having made them particularly
drowsy.

Talking in their sleep,' said the veiled figure, raising herself
and trying the handle of the chaise door, opening it, and
reaching in to make sure whether it was tenanted or no.

Not come,' she sighed. * He must be late, or else I've
missed him. He is looking for me. Oh, what a wicked girl
I am ! What's that ?'

She turned sharply round, darting behind the chaise and
among the trees as a faint sound was heard; and this
directly after took the form of footsteps, a short slight man
approaching on the other side of the road, stopping to gaze
at the chaise and then backing slowly into the low bush-like
trees, which effectually hid him from sight.

There was utter stillness again for a few moments, when
the dull sound of steps was once more heard, and another
short slight figure approached armed with a stout cane.

He kept to the grass and walked straight up to the sleeping
postboys, examined them, and then stood listening.

Just in time,' he said to himself. ' Drowsy dogs ! Ha
ha — ha ! I wish Dick Linnell were here. I should like
the fool to see her go. Hang it ! I'd have given Harry
Payne fifty to help him on the road if he had asked me. Get
rid of her for good, curse her ! I'm sick of the whole lot.
Eh ! What, the devil '

What are you doing here, Burnett?' said Richard Linnell,
crossing the road from the Downs in company with Mellersh.

What am I doing ? Taking the air. Did you think I
was going to elope in a post-chaise. Hist ! don't speak
aloud or you'll wake the boys. But, I say — hang it all
have I been humbugged ? Was it you then who were
going off with Claire, and not Sir Harry Payne ?'

Do you want me to horsewhip you, Burnett ?' cried
Linnell in a low, passionate voice.

Not I. There, don't be cross. I can't help it, if she
is going.'

Linnell turned from him impatiently, but Burnett followed.

Let her go, man. What's the good of worrying about
her ? Better for both of us.'

Come aside,' said Mellersh softly. ' Here they are.'
Linnell seemed disposed to stand fast, but Mellersh took
this arm.

Look here, my dear boy,' he whispered. ' You don't
want to interfere. Let her go.'

Linnell turned upon him fiercely, but he yielded to his
companion's touch, and they walked on some twenty yards,
followed by Burnett, who was laughing to himself and
rubbing his hands.

Lucky I heard,' he said to himself. * I only want to be
satisfied.'

The steps approaching were not those of a lady and gentleman,
but of Lord Carboro' and Barclay, who, in utter
ignorance of anyone but the postboys being at hand, stood
for a few minutes listening.

Yes, Barclay,' said the former. * I could not bear for
the poor girl to go without making a step to save her. I'm
an old fool, I know, but not the first of my kind. I tell you,
asking nothing, expecting nothing, I'd give ten thousand
pounds to feel that I had not been deceived in her.'

Pay up then, my lord, for I tell you that you have been

deceived. Once more : the lady is May Burnett, her
sister.'

I'm assured that it is Claire Denville, and if it is, Barclay,
I'll save her, damme, I will, if I shoot the man.'

But, my lord '

Don't talk to me, sir. I tell you if I saw her going to
the church with a fellow like young Linnell I'd give her a
handsome present ; but I can't bear for such a girl as that
to be going wrong.'

Unless it was with you, my lord,' said Barclay
abruptly.

You confounded rascal ! How dare you !' snarled Lord
Carboro'. * Do you think I have no good feeling in me ?
There, you wouldn't believe in my disinterestedness, anymore
than I would in yours. Don't talk. What shall wee
do ? Pay the postboys and send them off ?'

No, my lord : stand aside, and make sure that we have
made no mistake.'

If soit have made no mistake,' said his lordship quickly ;
and he and his companion had hardly drawn aside into the
convenient wood to swell the circle gathering round the
intending evades, when Eichard Linnell made a step from
his concealment and was arrested by Mellersh, as Burnett
whispered :

What are they here for ?'

Just then one of the postboys yawned and stretched himself,

making noise sufficient to awaken his fellow, who rose
from the bank and flicked his whip.

'How long have we been here?' said the man on the
horse.

Hours, and not a soul come. My ticker's been asleep
as well,' he muttered, after pulling out his watch. * I
believe the 'losses have been having a nap too. I say,
I'm getting sick of this.'

Think they'll come ?'

Hang me if I know. Guv'nor seems to have been about
right.'

Why, what did he say ?'

You was there and heard him.'
No : I was in the stable.'

Said two po'chays was ordered, and he'd only horses for
one. That it was certain as it was a 'elopement, that both
parties wouldn't come, and perhaps neither of 'em. If they
did. Sir Mattie Bray and Sir Harry Payne had better fight
it out, and the gals go home. Hist ! Is that them ?'

The two men listened attentively as steps were heard,
and the listeners in the wood were all on the qui vive.

Directly after, Sir Harry Payne came up.

Seen a lady, my lads ?'

No, sir. Been on the watch ever since we come, and
no one's been near,' said the first postboy.

'Humph! Past time. Horses fresh ?'

Fresh as daisies, Sir Harry. Don't you be afraid. No
onely catch us.*

'Are you sure you've both been watching? Not been
asleep, have you?'

Sleep a-top of a horse, Sir Harry ? Not we.'

Mount !' cried Sir Harry to the second man. ' Here
she comes.'

What followed was the business of a few moments. A
slight little veiled figure came panting up, and was caught
in Sir Harry's arms.

At last !' he cried. * This way, little pet curse the

woman ! What are you doing here ?'

Claire Denville's cloak dropped from her shoulders as,
panting and utterly exhausted with the chase after her
sister, she flung her arms about her and held her fast.

May !' she panted. * Sister, are you mad?'

You'll make me in a moment,' cried Sir Harry. ' Curse
you ! Why do you interfere ?'

May !' cried Claire again. ' For pity's sake — for the sake
of your husband, do not do this wicked thing. Come back
with me ; come back. No one shall know. Sister, dear
sister, before it is too late.'

Nay, it is too late,' whispered Sir Harry. * Choose ;
will you go back to misery and disgrace ?'

At the edge of the wood the scene was just visible, but
the words were inaudible. Burnett had not at first recognised

his wife ; but Claire's voice rang out clear, and with
a sneer he turned to Eichard Linnell :

'There!' he said. 'What did I say? What are you
going to do now ?'

Try and save your foolish wife, idiot, if you are not man
enough to interfere.'

He sprang out of the wood as he spoke, but ere he could
reach the group, Sir Harry Payne, by a brutal exercise of
his strength, swung Claire away from her sister ; and as she
staggered on the turf she would have fallen but for the quick
way in which Eichard Linnell caught her in his arms.

She clung to him wildly, as she strove to recover herself.

Help ! Mr. Linnell ! Quick ! my sister !' she panted, as
Sir Harry Payne hurriedly threw open the door of the
chaise.

In with you — no nonsense, now,' he cried to May. * Be
ready, my lads — gallop hard. I'll pay !'

He was leaning towards the postboys as he spoke, but as
the words left his lips they were half drowned by a piercing
shriek that rang out upon the night, sending a thrill through
every bystander. It was no hysterical cry, but the agony
and dread-born appeal for aid from one in mortal peril.

Sir Harry held the door open, and stood as if paralysed by
the cry, for as if instantaneously, a dark lithe figure had
glided out from beneath the chaise, caught May's arm, and,
as the word * Perfidy !' seemed hissed in her ear, there was

a flash as of steel, and a sharp blow was delivered like
lightning, twice over.

'Curse you!' cried Sir Harry. 'Cowardly dog!' He
seized May's assailant by the throat, but only to utter a low
cry of pain, and stagger back from the effect of the heavy
blow he received in the shoulder.

To the startled spectators at hand it was all like some
scene in the half-light of a drama. No sooner had the dark
figure rid himself of Payne than he glided rapidly beneath
the chaise again, and before those who ran up to arrest him
could reach the farther side of the vehicle, he had darted
into the wood and was gone. Just then a voice cried :

Help ! for heaven's sake, or she'll bleed to death.'

VOL. III. 38

'TOO LATE ! TOO LATE !'

The words uttered by the first to run to May Burnett's help
seemed to paralyse the party instead of evoking aid, while
in the horror and confusion there was no attempt made to
pursue, so stunned were all by the rapidity with which one
event had succeeded the other.

Lord Carboro' was the first to recover himself.

This is no place for you. Miss Denville,' he said. * Will
you place yourself under my protection? Or, no,' he added
hastily; ' Mr. Barclay, take Miss Denville home.'

Barclay took a step towards Claire, who stood as if turned
to stone, staring wildly at where her sister lay upon the turf ,
with Mellersh kneeling beside her, while Sir Harry Payne
also lay without motion.

Who was that man who struck Mrs. Burnett?' said Lord
Carboro' sharply, but no one answered. * Mr. Burnett,' he
continued to that individual, as he stood aloof looking on,

but speechless with mortification and rage. ' Will no one
speak ? Who is this ? You, Mellersh ?'

Yes,' was the reply, in a low, pained voice. ' This is a
terrible business, Lord Carboro'.'

It generally is when a lady tries to elope and is stopped.
Curse me, though, what a coward that Burnett was to set
some one to strike her.'

Did he ?' said Mellersh, in a curious tone.

Yes ; didn't you see ? Is she fainting ?'

Yes,' said Mellersh. ' Here, Linnell, help Miss Denville
into the chaise, and she can support her sister.'

Xo ; I forbid it,' cried Lord Carboro' sharply. ' I '

Hush, my lord !' whispered Mellersh. ' Do you not see ?
The wretched woman is stabbed.'

Stabbed !'

Claire ! Claire ! Help ! Claire V wailed May faintly.
At her sister's wild cry a spasm seemed to shoot through
Claire's frame, and she wrested herself from Linnell, and
threw herself beside the wretched little woman where she lay.

May — sister,' she whispered.

Take me — take me home,' said May, in a feeble, piteous
voice. * Did you see him? I was frightened. I was going
and he — he stabbed me.'

Help ! A doctor ! For heaven's sake, help !' cried Claire.
May, May, speak to me — dear sister.'

She raised the frail little figure in her arms as she spoke,

38—2

till the pretty baby head rested upon her bosom, and Lmnell
shuddered as, in the dim light, he saw the stains that marked
her dress and Claire's hands.

'Miss Denville,' he whispered, * let Colonel Mellersh place
her in the chaise. She must be got home at once.'

Yes,' said Mellersh solemnly. * I can do no more.'

As he spoke he gave a final knot to the handkerchief with
which he had bound the slight little arm.

Who did this ?' cried Lord Carboro' quickly. ' Mr. Burnett,
do you know ?'

Burnett did not speak, and the answer came from May,
in a feeble, dreamy voice.

It was poor Louis,' she said. * I saw him this evening
watching me — he must have followed. Ah !'

Quick ! Get in first, Miss Denville,' cried Mellersh.
Draw her away, Dick, for God's sake ! The poor little
thing will bleed to death. Good heavens !'

The last words were uttered in a low tone, as from out of
the darkness a tall gaunt figure staggered up and sank down
beside the injured girl.

Too late ! Too late ! May ! my child ! Blood ! She
is dead— my darling. She is dead !'

Hush, sir ! She has fainted,' cried Linnell. * Mr. Den-ville
! For heaven's sake, sir, be firm. Command yourself.
A terrible mishap. Mrs. Burnett must be got back to the
town at once. Can you act calmly ?'

Certainly. I'll try,' groaned the Master of the Ceremonies
; and then, ' Too late — too late !'

He rose, holding one little hand in his as Claire tottered
into the carriage, and May was lifted to her side.

Now, Mr. Denville. In — quick !' cried Linnell. * Straight
home. The postboys shall warn a doctor as they
pass.'

The door was banged to, the orders given, and the next
minute the horses were going at a canter, on no flight to
London, but back to the Parade.

Eichard Linnell stood gazing after the departing post-chaise
for a few moments, to start as a hand was placed upon
his shoulder.

Is she hurt badly, Mellersh ?' he whispered.

Badly? Yes,' was the reply. ' I'm afraid it is the last
ride she will take — but one.'

For heaven's sake, gentlemen, lend a hand here,' cried
Lord Carboro' impatiently ; and they turned to where Barclay
was now kneeling by Sir Harry Payne, that worthy
having just struggled back from a fit of fainting.

Cursed cowardly blow,' he said in a shrill voice. ' Who
was it — Burnett ? Why couldn't he call me out ?'

Don't talk, man,' cried Lord Carboro'. ' Here, Mellersh,
the fellow's bleeding like a pig.'

Am I ?' cried Sir Harry faintly. ' D it. A surgeon.

The posthaste.'

A knife,' said Mellersh shortly, as he made as ra^^id an
examination as he could in the darkness.

A pocket-knife was handed to him by Barclay, and he
ripped up the coat and threw it aside.

Is — is it dangerous?' faltered Sir Harry.

Dangerous enough for you to be more silent,' said Mellersh.
'Another handkerchief, please. That'll do. Yes
I'll use both. There, Sir Harry,' he said, as he bound up
the prostrate man's arm, ' we are only a mile from the
barracks. You must contrive to walk.'

Sick as a dog,' muttered Sir Harry ; but he struggled to
his feet with a little hell). ' Don't — don't let that little beast
Burnett come near me. Mellersh, your arm.'

There was no need for his desire to be attended to, for
Burnett had stood looking on for a few minutes, and then
gone off, to be slowly followed by the others, the wounded
man being compelled by faintness to halt from time to time
till the barrack gate was reached.

Half an hour later Lord Carboro' was in consultation
with Barclay, Mellersh, and Linnell outside the Danville*
house.

'Gravani?' said Lord Carboro', * to be sure — Louis
Gravani. I gave him some painting to do when he was
here. Italian — and the knife — a former lover, of course ?'

Mrs. Barclay tells me, my lord,' said Barclay, gravely,
that he was really Mrs. Burnett's husband.'

Dick,' said Mellersh, as they were walking slowly back,
of what are you thinking ?'

Of Claire.'

Mellersh said no more, but when they reached home sat
musing over the fact that there was a light in Cora's
window, and that she was looking out. But it was not for
him.

THE FRIEND IN NEED.

There was quite a meeting at little Miss Close's the next
morning, after a heavy storm that had set in during the
night; but, though the ordinary atmosphere was fresh,
clear, cool and bright after the heavy rain, the social atmosphere
grew more dense and lurid, hour by hour, as the
callers rolled the news snow-ball on till Annie Close's eyes
looked as if they would never close again, and her mouth
formed a veritable round O.

Miss Close herself was in a state of nervous prostration,
but she forced herself to be in the shop and listen, gathering
scraps of information which she sifted, casting aside the
rubbish and retaining only what was good, so as to piece
together afterwards, and lay before herself what was the
whole truth.

The accounts were sufficiently alarming ; and among
others it was current that Sir Harry Payne was eloping
with Claire Denville, when Mrs. Burnett followed to stop

them, and Frank Bm-nett in a fit of rage and jealousy,
stabbed her and Sir Harry.

Another account stated that it was Sir Matthew Bray
who had stabbed Mrs. Burnett, and that he had been seized
and put in prison for the deed, while Lady Drelincourt had
gone mad from love and misery, and had been found by
Fisherman Dick and a couple of friends six miles inland,
lost on the Downs, drenched with rain, and raving so that
she had had to be held down in the cart that the fishermen
had been using to carry mackerel.

Everybody smiled at the word mackerel, and thought of
French brandy for some reason or another.

This last business was as much canvassed as May Burnett's
injury, for subsequent inquiry proved that Lady Dree
really had been brought home by Fisherman Dick,
and that she was delirious and attended by two doctors.

Sir Matthew Bray, too, was certainly in prison, and
nobody troubled him or herself to discriminate between an
arrest for debt set about next day by Josiah Barclay, and
one for some criminal offence.

The whole affair was like a godsend, just when scandal
was starving for want of sustenance, and Saltim^lle at its
lowest ebb.

Some one had seen the postboys, and knew that Lord Car-born'
was up at the cross-roads, where he had gone to fight
a duel with Colonel Mellersh over a card-table quarrel, and

they happened to be just m time to help May Burnett when
her sister stabbed Sir Harry Payne.

Some one else quarrelled indignantly with this version,
for she knew from Lady Drelincourt's maid that it was her
ladyship herself, who in a fit of indignant jealousy had
stabbed Claire Denville and Sir Matthew Bray, whom everyone
knew she loved desperately, and that she had afterwards
gone distracted because she had nearly killed Sir
Matthew.

This narrator went off in high dudgeon on being openly
contradicted, and told that she was entirely wrong, for the
fact was that young CornetMorton Denville, who saved Lady
Drelincourt's pet dog, and for whom her ladyship had bought
a commission, had challenged Sir Matthew Bray to fight with
swords at the cross-roads. They had met, but Lady Dree
in alarm, had gone and told Morton Denville's
sisters, and they had all three gone up together in a post-chaise
with Sir Harry Payne on horseback. They had
come up just in the heat of the fight, and Sir Harry and
Mrs. Burnett had rushed between them, and both been
wounded ; and in her horror at being the cause of such
bloodshed. Lady Drelincourt had exclaimed, * I would give
my diamonds and everything I possess to be able to undo
this terrible night's work.'

Such minute knowledge carried all before it, and for
quite an hour this was the accepted version.

Somehow, Louis Gravani, save with three or four of the
witnesses of the tragedy, dropped entirely out of the affair,
going as suddenly as he had come, though he seemed always
present in the little bedchamber on the Parade, where May
lay almost at the point of death, muttering feebly, and
appealing to him not to be so cruel as to kill her, because
she always thought that he was dead.

The surgeon had done all that was possible, and he had
consulted with the principal physician as to the course to
be pursued ; and then, in the face of two grave wounds in
the neck and breast of the frail, childish little creature, they
had left her to the wild delirium that had set in — one whose
fever was burning away rapidly the flickering life that was
left.

The window was wide open, and the soft, low rush of the
water upon the shingle floated in like soft, murmurous music
through the flowers that it had always been Claire's pleasure
to tend. Then a faint, querulous cry, oft repeated, came
from seaward, where the soft grey-plumaged gulls swept
here and there, and dipped down at the shelly shoals laid
bare as the tide ebbed and flowed. It was a weird, uneasy
sound, that accorded well with the painful scene in the
chamber given up to the sick girl, by whose side stood
Claire, pale and anxious, ready to fan the burning face, or
rearrange the bedclothes tossed uneasily away.

Near the foot of the bed sat the Master of the Ceremonies,

grey, hollow-checked, and with a wild look of despairing
horror in his eyes, as he gazed at his little fallen idol, for
whom he had fought and schemed, and whom he had so
obstinately held aloft in his own heart, to the disparagement
of her patient, forbearing sister.

Is it true, Claire ?' he murmured at last ; * is it true, or
some dreadful dream ? My child ! My child !'

Then his face grew convulsed with horror, as May turned
her face towards him, and began speaking rapidly :

Don't, Louis — pray : don't. — No: I am afraid. — Take me
away quickly, dear. — No one will know, and I hate him so.
—Little mean wretch ! — They made me marry him, and I
hate him more and more. — Hush !'

Denville groaned, and, as his head drooped upon his
breast, Claire heard him murmur :

Is it a judgment — is it a judgment for the past ?'

She shivered as she listened to his words, but a quick
movement and a low cry of pain made her bend over her
sister again.

Take me away,' she said, after a few moments ; and her
pinched face bore a look of terror that stabbed those who
watched with an agonizing pain. * I tell you I hate Frank,
and I dare not meet poor Louis now. It is not he, but
something from the dead. Claire — Claire — hold me. Sister,
help ! Don't let me go. Am I going to die ?

'May, May!' whispered Claire soothingly, as she laid her

cheek against the burning face ; and the sick girl sighed,
and made an effort to ching to her, but her feeble arm
dropped heavily upon the coverlet.

Don't let Louis come now. Is that Frank? Is that '

She wandered off, muttering quickly and incoherently as

she threw her head from side to side for a time ; and then,
utterly exhausted, seemed to sleep.

Has — has Frank Burnett been ?' whispered her father,
looking timidly at Claire.

She shook her head sadly.

No,' said Demdlle ; * he will not come. He would not
even if she were to die. She must get better ; and we will
do as you have often said : go right away, where we are
not known, and where we shall be safe.'

In spite of herself, Claire darted at him a horrified look,
which he saw and winced at, as he rose feebly, and began
to pace the room, stopping at length before the window to
gaze out at the sunlit sea.

'Strange!' he murmured; 'the world so beautiful, and
my life one dreary course of agony and pain. Claire, what
do the doctors really think — that she will live ?'

I pray God they do !' said Claire solemnly.

Yes ; she must live and repent. There is pardon for
those who suffer and repent, my child. Don't look at me
like that ; you do not know. Claire, is this my punishment
? Surely no worse suffering can befall me now.'

Dear father,' whispered Claire ; * let the past be
dead.'

Hush !' he cried, grasping her hand ; * Don't talk of
death, girl — here. She must live, and we will go away
before — before it is too late. Has Morton been?'

Claire shook her head mournfully.

No ; he would not come. He must not come,' said the
old man quickly. ' He is well placed, and he must not
come near such pariahs as we are. No, no ; don't look like
that,' he whispered passionately. ' Why should he drag
himself down ? It is too much to ask of the boy.'

He went on tip-toe to the bed, and took the little feverish
hand that lay outside the coverlet, and kissed and stroked
it as he muttered to himself :

Poor little wandering lamb ! So weak and timid, and
ready to go astray ; but you are safe here with me. Oh,
how wrong everything is !'

Claire glanced at him, half stunned by this new trouble ;
and, as her father talked of punishment, and the impossibility
of a greater trouble than this befalling them, a cold
hand seemed to clutch her heart, and a vague, black shadow
of another horror came back with double force, she shuddered,
and devoted herself more and more to her task of
attending the sister sick apparently unto death.

As she sat there, with the shadow of death impending,
after the first shock, it seemed to lose its terrors, and she

found herself looking upon it as less dreadful than she had
been wont to do. There was rest in it, and a cessation
from the pain and suffering that had so long been her
portion ; and, as the hours rolled on, her throbbing brain
grew dull and heavy, her own suffering lighter, and she
seemed better able to attend to the sufferer at her side.

Towards noon there was a soft knock at the front door,
and Isaac — who had been planning with Eliza an immediate
flight from the grief-stricken house, on the ground that,
even if they lost their wages, it was no longer a place for
them to stay at — opened it, and told the visitor that Miss
Denville could see no one.

But me, young man,' said the caller, quietly entering.
You need not say I'm here. I shall go up soon, and you
have got to go on to my house for another basket like this,
only bigger.'

She patted the one she carried — one which she had
crammed with such things as she thought would be useful
at such a time.

Isaac gave way, allowed Mrs. Barclay to go up to the
drawing-room, and directly after called Eliza into his pantry
to tell her that his mind was made up, and that they must
go at once.

Mrs. Barclay did not hesitate for a moment, but went
softly up to the bedroom, tapped gently, and turned the
handle to enter on tip-toe.

I've only come to help, my dear,' she said softly, as she
clasped Claire in her arms. * We weren't quick enough,
my dear,' she whispered, ' or we might have saved all this.'

There was no reply, and after a time, in respect to Claire's
wishes, Mrs. Barclay went downstairs.

I shall be there if you want me, my dear. Don't you go
and think that you are left alone.'

Mrs. Barclay had hardly seated herself in the diningroom,
and taken some rather grubby work from her pocket,
when she heard a peculiar noise, and the bump of something
being placed heavily upon the floor.

She listened, and heard some one ascend the stairs again,
and there was a whispering, which ceased as the whisperers
ascended, and then there was silence, and Mrs. Barclay took
a stitch, and thought and wondered whether Cora Dean
would come, or whether the Danville would be cut by
everyone now.

Then she took another stitch, and rubbed her nose, which
itched.

Poor little soul !' she said to herself, * it's come home to
her at last. I never thought any good of her, but I'm not
one to go on punishing those who've done wrong.'

Mrs. Barclay took another stitch and began to think
again.

Jo-si-ah says if they catch the little Italian fellow, he'll
be transported for life, and if poor little Mrs. Burnett dies.

they'll hang him. Well, I don't hold ^Yith hanging people,
so I hope she won't die.'

She took another stitch and drew the thread through very
slowly.

Jo-si-ah says Sir Harry isn't very had, and the constable
and a magistrate have been to see him, but he says he
knows nothing hardly about it. Poor Claire ! What a
house this is 1 What trouble !'

She took another stitch.

I wonder whether Richard Linnell \^411 come. I shall
begin to hate him if he doesn't stand by the poor girl in her
distress. He's a poor shilly-shally sort of a fellow, or he'd
believe in her as I do.'

There was quite a vicious stitch here.

Perhaps, it isn't his fault. She kept him at a distance
terribly, and no wonder with the troubles she's had ; but of
comes he can't understand all that, being impetuous, like
my Jo-si-ah was, and I essay it will all come right at last.
Now, what are they lumping down the stairs, making a
noise, and that poor child so ill ?'

She threw her work on the table, got up softly, and, just
as there was a fresh bump and a whispering, she opened the
door to find Isaac and Eliza standing over a box which they
had just set down in the passage beside another, while Isaac
in plain clothes and Eliza with her bonnet in her hand
started at seeing the visitor.

VOL. III. ■ 39

Why, eighty-eight, who's going away ?' cried Mrs. Barclay
wonderingly.

Eliza glanced at Isaac, who cleared his throat.

The fact is, ma'am, this yomig person and I have come
to the conclusion that seeing how we suffered from arrears,
and what goings on there are here, Mr. Denville's isn't the
service in which we care to stop any longer.'

Oh,' said Mrs. Barclay ; * and have you told Mr. Den-ville
you are going?'

Well, ma'am ; no, ma'am. We have thought it is not
necessary under the circumstances, and '

Nor yet. Miss Claire ?'

No, ma'am ; she is too busy.'

Then just you take those boxes up again, young man,
and take off that finery, and put on your livery,' said Mrs.
Barclay in a low angry voice. ' Now, no words. You do
0,s I say — there take those boxes up.'

The tone of voice, manner, and a hint about the wages had
their effect. Isaac and Eliza glanced at each other, and
took the boxes away without a word, Isaac coming back in
livery a quarter of an hour later to tell Mrs. Barclay that
that soldier ' was at the back door.

Mrs. Barclay started and followed Isaac, to stare in
wonder at the fine soldierly young fellow, who eagerly asked
her a score of questions about Claire and May, and, declining
to be questioned in turn, hurried away with troubled mien.

may begins to see.
Claire.'

It was the faintest whisper of a call, but she to whom it
was addressed heard it, and leaned over the bed to lay a
cool hand upon the little wistful face looking up from the
pillow.

How long have I been lying here, Claire ?'

'Hush, dear; don't talk,' said Claire tenderly, 'you are
still so weak.'

Yes, but I must know. If you do not answer my
questions, I shall fret and die sooner than I should do if
you told me.'

* Six weeks, dear.'

Six weeks !' sighed May ; ' and it seems like a dream.
Since I seemed to wake up the day before yesterday, I have
been thinking about it all, and I recollect everything now.*

She spoke with perfect calmness, and as she went on,
Claire's brow wrinkled.

39—2

Poor old dad ! How fond he is of me, and how ready to
forgive me,' she went on quietly. ' Has Frank Burnett
been ?'

Claire shook her head.

'Not once?'

'No.'

Ah, well, I suppose he would not come. He felt that I
was not his wife, and he was glad to cut himself clear from
such an unhappy family. Has Sir Harry sent ?'

'May! dear May!'

I only wanted to know, Claire,' said May quietly. ' Don't
be angry with me, dear. It's all over now. Is he better?*

I believe so. He has gone away.'

Thank God !' said May fervently.

Claire turned upon her with wondering eyes.

Yes,' she said again. ' Thank God ! I should not have
liked to see him again, nor to know that he had been to ask
for me. I am so weak, Claire. I always — I was so different
to you.'

Claire sighed, and bent down and kissed the white forehead,
beneath which the large eyes look unnaturally bright.

That's nice,' said May, with a sigh of content. * I wish
I had been born such a girl as you. Always so calm and
grave. I was so different. I used to feel, and I am sure of
it now, that I was like one of the pretty little boats out
there at sea, with the great white sails, that are blown over

sometimes for want of ballast. I never had any ballast,
Claire, and that made me giddy.'

Had you not better be silent now, May dear?' whispered
Claire.

No. Perhaps I may not be able to talk to you again,
and I should like to tell you everything that is in my mind.'

May, dear !' cried Claire, kissing her lovingly.

You forgive me, then?' sighed May. ' I'm glad of that,
for I want a deal of forgiving — here— and there,' she added,
after a pause.

Which may come the easier, dear, for a life spent in
repenting what is past.'

Yes ; that would be easy, Claire, easy enough ; but it is
better as it is with me. I should be so weak and foolish
again if I got well. — Claire.'

'Yes, dear.'

Has poor Louis been seen again '?'

No : not since that night.'

May lay silent for a few minutes, and then said softly :

It seems very cruel of him to strike me like that, but he
had been true to me, Claire, and I was so weak I couldn't
be true to him, and he is not like us ; he is foreign, and
loves and hates so passionately. It made him angry and
mad against me. As soon as I saw him in the street, after
I had written to ask Sir Harry to take me away, I knew
there was danger, and I tried so hard to escape. I felt

obliged then. Sir Harry had often before begged me to go,
but I never would.' , '

Hush ! May, I beg of you.'

No : I must talk,' said May. ' I will speak softly sb
that it shall not hurt me much ; but I want to be made
happy by telling you everything and getting you to freely
forgive me.'

I do — I do freely forgive you, everything, May, dear
sister,' whispered Claire, ' and you must get well quickly, so
that we may go far away from here, and begin life afresh.'

Yes,' said May, with a peculiar smile, * far away, and
begin life afresh.'

Claire saw her peculiar look, and held her tightly to her
breast.

Yes,' said May softly, * it means that, dear. I've always
been like a spoiled child. Poor papa has made me his idol,
and I've been so weak and foolish. I can see it all now,
since I have been ill. Claire, I hope they will not take
poor Louis and punish him for this.'

No, no, dear ; he has gone far away ; but pray, pray,
say no more.'

I must,' she said smiling. ' I have wasted so much time
that I cannot spare a moment now. Ah, Claire, if I had
been like you !'

I wish you had been happier than ever I have been,*
said Claire sadly. * Now try and sleep.'

I want to talk to you about baby, Claire clear,' continued
May, without heeding her sister's words.

She laughed softly, and her sister gazed at her in wonder,
thinking that she was wandering again, as in the days of
her long delirium.

*I was laughing about baby,' she said. 'Such a droll
little soft tiling. I laughed when I saw it first, for we both
seemed to be such bits of girls, and it seemed such nonsense
for me to be the poor little tot's mother. I have never been
like a mother to it, though, leaving it always to strangers ;
but you, Claire, you will see to it, and be a better mother
to her than ever I could.'

You shall get better. May, and make your little one a
blessing to you when we are far away from here.'

Yes,' said May with the same peculiar look, * faraway
from here. Poor little baby ! Does my father
know ?'

Yes : everything now, dear.'

Oh, yes, I had forgotten : he kissed me as if he did, and
forgave his weak, wilful child.'

How is she ?' whispered Denville, entering the room
softly a few minutes later.

Asleep,' said Claire in the same tone.
Is she — do you think she '

He trailed off in his speech, and ended by looking imploringly
in his daughter's face.

I dare not say,' said Claire mournfully. * Father, she
is very ill.'

Then you must nurse her, Claire,' said the old man
excitedly, as he caught her hand to hold it tightly. * You
must get her well, so that we can go — all go — far away —
where we are not known. We cannot stay here in misery
and debt and disgrace. Everything is against us now. My
old position is gone. I dare not walk to the Assembly-room,
for fear of some insult or slight. I am the
Master of the Ceremonies only in name. I am disgraced.'


Then we will go,' said Claire sadly ; ' but it cannot be
yet. Have patience, dear.'

She laid her hand upon the old man's shoulder, and bent
forward and kissed his cheek.
He caught her in his arms.

You do not shrink from me ?' he said bitterly.

Shrink ? No, father ; I am your child. Now, tell me
about money — what are we to do ?'

Denville shook his head.

There is only one way out of the difficulty, Claire.'

A way, father ?'

Yes ; Lord Carboro' spoke to me again this morning on
the Parade. He came up to me like the gentleman he is,
and just as I had been openly cut by townsman after townsman.
He shook hands with me and took my arm, Claire,

and — and — I told him he might come here — to-day — and
speak to you.'

Oh, father, what have you done ? You have not taken
money from him ?'

No — no — no !' cried the old man indignantly. ' I have
not sunk so low as that ; but it was tempting. That man
Isaac has grown insolent, and has twice come home intoxicated.
Claire, I am the fellow's slave while I am in his
debt. I want to send him away, but I cannot. Hush I'

There was a double knock at the door, and Denville went
softly down, leaving Claire with a fresh agony to battle
against, for, few as had been her father's words, they had
been sufficiently plain to make her ask herself whether it
was not her duty to give up everything — to sell herself, as
it were, to this old nobleman, that her father might be saved
from penury, and her sister placed beyond the reach of
want ; for her home must in future be with them.

Have we not at last reached the very dregs of bitterness ?'
she said wildly. * Heaven help me in this cruel strait !'

The door opened softly, and Denville signed to Claire to
come to him on the landing.

It is Lord Carboro',' he whispered. * You must speak
to him.'

Claire shrank back for a moment, but her firmness
returned, and she closed the door and followed her father
to take his hand.

I would do everything, now, father, even to this,' she
said solemnly; ' but it is impossible. Ask yourself.'

Yes,' he said sadly, * it is impossible. But it is very
hard — to see wealth and prosperity for you, my child, and
to have to say no. But it is impossible. Speak gently to
the old man. He has been a good friend to me.'

It seemed as if a mist was about her as Claire Denville
entered the drawing-room, beyond which she could dimly
see Lord Carboro', looking almost grotesque in his quaint
costume and careful get-up, fresh from the hands of his valet.
He had been labouring hard to appear forty ; but anxiety
and the inexorable truth made him look at least seventy, ashe
rose, bowed, and placed a chair for the pale, graceful
girl, and then took one near her.

The old man had prepared a set speech of a very florid
nature, for, matter-of-fact worldling as he was, he had felt
himself weak and helpless before the woman for whom he
had quite a doting affection. But the sight of Claire's grief-stricken
face and the recollection of the suffering and mental
care through which she must have passed, drove away all
thought of his prepared words, and he felt more like a
simple-hearted old man full of pity than he had ever been
before.

He took her hand, which was given up unresisting, and
after a thoughtful look in the calm clear eyes that met his,
he said slowly :

My dear Miss Denville, I came here to-day, a vain weak
man, full of the desire to appear young ; but you have driven
away all this shallow pretence, for I feel that you can seeme
clearly as what I am, an old fellow of seventy. Hush !
don't speak my dear child till I have done. I have always
admired you as a beautiful girl: I now love you as the sweet,
patient, suffering woman who has devoted herself to others.

Lord Carboro' '

No, no ; let me try and finish, my dear. I will be very
brief. It would be a mockery to speak flattering follies to
such a one as you. Tell me first— Did your father give you
to understand that I was coming ?'

Claire bent her head.

Then let me say simply, my child, that if you wall be my
wife and give me such love as your sweet dutiful heart will
teach you to give to the doting old man who asks you, I weill
try all I can to make your young life happy, and place it in
your power to make a pleasant home somewhere for poor
old Denville, and your sister. We mist bring her round.

A trip abroad with your father, and and — dear me — dear

me, my child, I am rambling strangely, and hardly know
what I say, only that I ask you to be my wife, and in return
you shall be mistress of all I possess. I know the difference
in our ages, and what the world will say ; but I could afford
to laugh at the world for the few years I should be likely to
stay in it, and afterwards, my child, you would be free and

rich, and with no duty left but to think kindly of the old
man who was gone.'

Claire listened to the old man's words with a strange
swelling sensation in her breast. The tears gathered slowly
in her eyes as she gazed wistfully at him, wondering at the
tender respect he paid her, and one by one they brimmed
over and trickled down.

She could not speak, but at last in the gratitude of her
heart, as she thought of the sacrifice he made in offering her
rank and riches, after the miserable scandals of which she
nat been the victim, she raised his withered hand slowly to
her lips.

No, no,' he cried, ' not that. You consent then ?'
No, my lord,' said Claire firmly. ' It is impossible.'
Then — then,' he cried testily. ' You do love someone else.'
Claire bowed her head, and her eyes looked resentment
for a moment. Then in a low sweet voice she said :

Even if I could say to you, Lord Carboro' my heart is
free, and I will try to be your loving, dutiful wife, there are
reasons which make it impossible,'

These troubles — that I will not name. I know, I know,'
he said hastily ; ' but they are miserable family troubles,
not yours.'

Troubles that arc mine. Lord Carboro', and which I
must share. Forgive me if I give you pain, but I could
never be your wife.'

The old man dropped the hand he held, and his face was
full of resentment as he replied :

Do you know what you are throwing away ?' Then,
checking himself, * No, no, I spoke angrily — like a thoughtless
boy. Don't take any notice of my words, but think —
pray think of your father — of your sister. How you could
help them in the position you would hold.'

Lord Carboro',' said Claire, * I am weak, heart-sick and
worn with watching. I can hardly find words to thank you,
and I want you to think me grateful, but what you ask is
impossible. It can never be.'

The old man rose angrily and took a turn or two about
the room, as he strove hard to fight down his bitter mortification.


Twice over he stopped before her, and his lips parted to
speak, but he resumed his hurried walk, ending by catching
her hands and kissing them.

Good-bye,' he said abruptly. ' I shall try to be 3-our
friend, and — and I never loved you half so much as I do now.'

He left the room, and Claire heard his footsteps on the
path, and then, in spite of herself, she stole towards the
window from which she saw him go slowly along the Parade,
looking bent, and as if his coming had aged him ten years
at least.

The opening of the drawing-room door roused Claire, and
turning, she saw that her father had entered, and that he

was trembling as he gazed at her with a curiously wistful
look that was one long question.

Claire shook her head slowly as she returned his gaze,
with her thoughts reverting to the night when she sank
fainting where she stood, and the notes of the serenade
floated in at the window.

No, father,' she said softly ; ' it would be impossible.'

Yes,' he said feebly ; ' impossible !'

THE STORM-CLOUD BURSTS.

That night, as Claire sat by the open window of her bedroom,
where May lay sleeping, and the flowers that she had
tended so carefully in the past for the most part withered
and dry, her thoughts went back to the morning's interview
with Lord Carboro', and there was a feeling of regret in
her breast as she thought of the old man's chivalrous devotion.


Then her heart seemed to stand still, and again beat with
a wild tumult as she told herself that the silent reproach she
had felt was not justified ; that it was her own doing, that
Richard Linnell was not at her side. For that was his step,
and she knew that he would stop opposite to her darkened
window and gaze upwards before passing on.

There was pleasure and yet pain in the thought, for she
felt that though it was impossible that they could ever
even be friends, he must believe in her and she must dwell
in his heart.

How often might he not have passed like that, and looked
up, thinking of her !

It was a pleasant thought, but one that she dismissed at
once, as if it were a temptation.

Trying to stop her ears to the sounds, she crept back from
the window, and bent over May, who seemed to be sleeping
more easily ; and a feeling of hope began to lighten the darkness
in her heart, and the black shadow of dread that so oppressed
her was forgotten, till, all at once, it came back,
blacker, more impenetrable than ever, as the sound of voices
loud in altercation rose from below.

Claire's heart stood still, and she held on by a chair-back,
listening with her lips apart, and wondering whether this
was the bolt fallen at last — the blow she was always dreading,
and that she felt must one day come.

She crept to the door, passed out and listened, closing it
after her that the noise might not awaken May, to whom
sleep meant life.

Angry voices rose, and then there were the sounds of
blows struck apparently with a cane. Then there was a
scuffling noise, and the front door was driven back.

Leave the house, scoundrel ! leave my house, insolent
dog!' came up sharp and clear in her father's voice, quivering
with anger, and the scuffle was renewed.

You pay me my wages ; you pay me what you owe me,
or I don't stir a step.'

The voice that uttered these last words was thick and
husky, and full of menace. It was a familiar voice, though,
that Claire recognised, and her cheeks burned with shame
as she felt that passers-by, perhaps Eichard Linnell, would
hear the degrading words that were uttered.

Her sister lying there sick, and this pitiful disturbance
that was increasing in loudness, and must be heard by anyone
who happened to be upon the Parade !

She hurried down to find that the scuffling sounds had
been renewed, and as she reached the passage it was to find
that her father was trying to drag Isaac to the door, and
force him into the road, where quite a little crowd was
collecting.

Leave this house, sir, directly.'

I shan't for you,' cried Isaac, resisting stoutly. ' I want
my wages. I want my box.'

Leave this house, you drunken insolent scoundrel !'

Father ! for pity's sake,' cried Claire, trying to interfere.

No, no ; stand back, my child,' cried the old man angrily.
He has come back again to-night tipsy. He has insulted
me once more, and he shall not stay here — I can turn him
out, and I will.'

Not you, and I shan't go,' hiccupped Isaac, seizing the
plinth at the bottom of the balusters and holding on. 'I
don't go from here 'thou my money — every penny of it, so
now, old Denville.'

VOL. III. 40

Pray, pray let me pass, father, and shut the door,' cried
Claire.

No, my dear,' said the old man, whose blood was now
up. ' He shall leave this house at once.'

No, I shan't leave neither without my box.'

The struggle went on, and the lamp would have been
knocked off the bracket but for Claire's hand. The contending
parties swayed here and there, but it was evident
that the footman was far the stronger, while Denville's
forces were failing moment by moment.

Can I be of any assistance, Mr. Denville ?' said a voice
that thrilled Claire through and through, but which made
her shrink back up a few stairs to avoid being seen.

'Who's that?— Mr. Linnell? Yes,' panted Denville.
My servant, sir — my lacquey. This is the fourth time he
has come back from being absent without leave, intoxicated,
sir. Tipsy. Not fit to come into a gentleman's presence.'

Ha, ha, ha !' laughed Isaac — ' Gentleman's presence ! I
don't call you a gentleman. Why, you're all that's, mean
and shabby and poor. Just you pay me my wages in arrears.'

* Come tomorrow, scoundrel,' said Denville loftily. ' Mr.
Linnell, if you would kindly send one of the people outside
for a constable. He will find one by the Assembly Room.
Let him say that the man is wanted at Mr. Denville's — at
the Master of the Ceremonies', and he will come on directly.'
Linnell glanced up at where Claire was turning back in

shame and distress of mind, little thinking that in a few
minutes she would be bravely standing at her father's side.
* Fetch a constable !' cried Isaac defiantly. ' Do, if you
dare. What do I care for a constable?'

Why don't you pay the man his wages ?' said a voice at
the door.

Ah, to be sure,' cried Isaac, with a tipsy laugh. * Why
don't you pay the man his wages ? 'Cause you can't. Beggarly
old upstart.'

Silence, you scoundrel !' cried Linnell fiercely, ' or I'll
drag you out and throw you over the cliff for your insolence.'


Do it — do it !' cried Isaac fiercely. ' Who's afraid ?'

Silence, dog !' cried Denville, catching up his cane.

Don't strike him, Mr. Denville,' said Linnell. ' Someone
there fetch a constable. Five shillings for the first man
who brings one here.'

Don't you, meads,' cried Isaac. ' He aren't send for a
constable. I tell you he aren't — not for me. Send for one
for himself.'

Claire trembled and shuddered at those words ; and, had
it been possible, she would have ended the scene at any cost,
but she was helpless.

For a moment Linnell had thought of seizing and dragging
out the tipsy servant ; but on second consideration he felt
that it might just as well be done by some one in authority,

40—2

so, hurrying out, he despatched one of the crowd m another
direction to that taken by the two or three who had hurried
off on the promise of a reward, and then turned back to see
if he could be of any further service.

Constable for me I' said Isaac, with tipsy gravity. *I
like that. I like that — much. Let him come. Make him
pay me my wages. Then I'll go. Not before, if all the old
Masters o' Ceremonies in England wanted me to go.'

The insolent scoundrel !' panted Denville ; ' after all I've
done for him since he came to me a boy.'

Done for me ! Ha-ha-ha !' laughed Isaac ; * kept me on
short commons, and didn't pay my wages. Now, then, are
you going to pay my money ?'

Here he is.' ' Here's one,' rose in chorus, and way was
made for the fussy-looking individual who occupied the post
of chief-constable of Saltinville.

Now, then, what's this ?' he said.

Tipsy servant,' choruses half - a - dozen voices.
Drunk.'

My servant, Mr. Cord,' said Denville importantly. * He
has misconducted himself again and again. You see the
condition he is in.'

Yes, I see,' said the constable. ' Come along.'
Wait till he pays my wages,' hiccupped Isaac.

You can talk about that another time,' said the constable
importantly. ' Come along.'

He seized the footman, gave him a shake which wrenched
his fingers from their hold upon the bottom of the blisters,
and with another shake jerked him upon his feet.

But Isaac was not going to be dragged off Hke that without
making a scene, and he shouted out :

Stop !'

Well, what is it?' said the constable.

Does he give me into custody, constable?'

Yes. Come along.'

Then I give him into custody — do you hear ? — custody —
for murder. I won't go alone.'

There, come along, fool,' cried the constable.

No — not without him,' cried Isaac. * Murder !'

Silence !' cried Denville excitedly, as Claire rushed down
the stairs and caught her father's arm.

Shan't silence !' yelled the man, who now threw off his
half-tipsy, contemptuous manner, and seemed stung by the
treatment he had received into a fit of furious passion. * I
give him into custody — for murder.'

Nonsense ! Hold your tongue, and come along,' cried
the constable ; while Linnell seized the man on the other
side, and hurriedly tried to force him out.

But it is not easy to get a man along a narrow passage if
he resists fiercely ; and so they found, for, setting his feet
against the edge of the dining-room door, Isaac thrust himself
back, and yelled to the throng at the door :

Do you hear ? For murder ! I charge this man — Den-ville
— with killing old Lady Teigne.'

Silence, villain !' hissed Linnell in his ear, as he darted
an agonized glance at where Claire was half supporting her
father, while the hack cloud she had seen impending so
long seemed to have fallen at last.

Silence? When there's murder?' shouted Isaac. ' I tell
you I heard a noise, and got up, and then I saw him go to
Lady Teigne's room, the night she was murdered. Ask him
there who did it, and see what he'll say,'

Father, come away !' panted Claire, as she threw herself
before him, as if to defend him against this terrible charge.

What's that ?' cried the constable. ' Oh, nonsense 1
Come along.'

I tell you it's true,' cried Isaac, with drunken fierceness ;

it's true. I saw him go to her room. Let him deny it if
he can.'

Denville stood up, holding tightly by Claire's arm, and
looking wildly from one to the other as a strange murmur
rose amongst the fast-augmenting crowd. Then, as if it
where vain to fight against the charge, he made a lurch
forward, recovered himself, and sank into a chair, Eichard
Linnell catching sight of his ghastly countenance before he
covered it with his hands.

It is a false charge, constable,' cried Linnell hastily.

Take that man away.'

It's all true,' snarled Isaac, with drunken triumph.
Look at him. Let him say he didn't do it if he dare !'

As every eye was fixed upon him, the Master of the Ceremonies
did not move ; he made no bold defiance, but seemed
half paralyzed by the bolt that had fallen — one from which
his child had failed to screen him, though she had thrown
herself upon his breast.

AFTER THE STORM.

Matters ran their course rapidly during the following days.
The black cloud that had so long been threatening had comedown
lower and nearer, and had at last poured forth its
storm upon Denville's devoted head. And now, as he sat
thinking, all that had passed seemed misty and dreamlike,
and yet he knew that it was true.

There was the finish of that terrible night, when, forced
by the direct charge of his servant, the constable had taken
steps against him. He had been arrested ; there had been
magisterial examinations, and appeals to him to declare
his innocency ; he, the magistrates' respected townsman,
charged with this horrible crime by a drunken servant !

But he had made no denial, only listened with a strange
apathy, as if stunned, and ready to give up everything as
hopeless. In fact, so willing did he seem to accept his
position that, after examination and adjournment — one
of which was really to give the broken-down, prostrate man

an opportunity for making some defence — the magistrates
had had no option but to commit the prisoner for
trial.

All Saltinville had been greatly concerned, and thus taken
off the scent of the previous trouble at the Master of the
Ceremonies' house. The departure of Frank Burnett from
the town, and the state of this wife's health, became exceedingly
secondary matters. Sir Harry Payne's wound was of
no more importance than Lady Drehncourt's rheumatic fever,
brought on by exposure on the Downs at her age. People
forgot, too, to notice that Sir Matthew Bray was clear of
his arrest, and to heed the rumour floating about at Miss
Close's, that Lady Drehncourt had paid Sir Matthew's
debts, her affection for the big heavy dragoon having received
a strong accession from the fact that her love was no
longer divided, her overfed dog having died, evidently from
plethora.

Ordinary affairs were in abeyance, and everyone talked of
Lady Teigne's murder, and metaphorically dug the old belle
up again to investigate the affair, and, so to speak, hold a
general inquest without the coroner's help.

Lord Carboro' took the matter down on the pier with him
and sat at the end to watch Fisherman Dick shrinking ;
and as he watched him. he did not think of the sturdy
Spanish-looking fellow, but of Lady Teigne's jewels, and ashe
thought he tried to undo this knot.

If Denville killed the old woman for her diamonds, how
is it he remained so poor ?'

Thinking, Lord Carboro' ?' said a voice.

The old beau looked up quickly and encountered the dark
eyes of Major Eockley, who had also been intently watching
Dick Higgles, using an opera-glass, so as to see him empty
the shrimps into his creel.

Yes : thinking,' said Lord Carboro' in a short, sharp way.

Like to know what I was thinking ?'

The Major shrugged his shoulders.

Of the sea, perhaps, or the vessels passing, or Lady
Drelincourt's illness.'

No, sir,' said Lord Carboro' shortly. ' I was thinking of
Lady Teigne's jewels.'

Rockley raised his eyebrows, and looked at the old man
curiously.

Of Lady Teigne's jewels ?'

Yes, sir ; and it seems a strange thing to me that if Den-ville
killed the old woman for her diamonds, he has not
become rich.'

To be sure,' said Eockley ; * it does seem strange.'

It's all strange, sir, deuced strange,' said the old man.

• Took me aback, for I never suspected Denville, and I don't
suspect him now.'

They stood looking at each other for a few minutes, and
then Eockley said quietly :

A great many people seem to believe him innocent. Do
you think they will get him off ?'

Yes, of comes — of course, sir. It would be an abominable
thing to bring such a charge home to the poor old
fellow. Why, I suppose, sir, that even you would not wish
that.'

I should be deeply grieved, my lord,' said Rockley.

Good morning.'

The scoundrel's still thinking about Claire,' said the old
beau, as he sat gazing after the handsome cavalry officer.

Well, it's of no use to sit here. I'll go up to Close's, and
see if there is any news.'

He trudged slowly along the pier and the Parade, stopping
now and then to take a pinch of snuff.

He was indulging in a very big pinch, standing by the
edge of the path, when there was the tramping of hoofs,
and Cora Dean's pony-carriage was drawn up by this
side.

Let me drive you there,' said Cora's deep, rich voice.

Drive me ! Where ?' said the old man.

Where you ought to be going ; to the prison to see poor
Mr. Demdlle, and get him out. I haven't patience with you
people leaving the poor old man there — you who professed
to be his friends.'

Hah ! Yes ! No, I don't think I'll trouble you, my dear
Miss Dean,' said the old man, recovering his balance, and

speaking in his old sarcastic tone. * You are such a female
Jehu.'

Such a what ?' said Cora.

Female Jehu, my dear. You drive furiously, but you
can't control your steeds. I don't want to be brought
ashore in triumph. It's all very well for you to come on to
the beach like a goddess in your car, but to me it means
rheumatism and pain. So, no : thanks.'

And you are going to leave Mr. Denville in
trouble ?'

Perhaps,' said his lordship drily. * We're a heartless lot
down here, and I'm one of the worst.'

And you think that poor old man killed Lady
Teigne.'

No, I don't, my dear Miss Dean ; but even if he had
done so I don't think he ought to be punished. It was a
meritorious action.'

Oh, Lord Carboro' !'

It was, my dear madam ; and if some enterprising party'
would come and kill off Lady Drelincourt and your humble
servant, and a few more of that stamp, it would be a blessing
to society. What do you think ?'

I think that a poor old man is lying in prison,' said Cora
Dean, tightening her reins ; * that his broken-hearted child
is tending a sick sister, and that the world of society talks
about it all as if it were stuff sent on purpose to supply

them with news. Lord Carboro', I used to wish I
were well in society. I don't wish it now. Good morning.'


One moment,' said the old man hastily. * You'll shake
hands ?'

He held out his, but Cora gave it a tap with her whip
handle, and her ponies went off at a canter, leaving his lordship
hat in hand.

And looking doomed ridiculous,' he said angrily. And
then, ' Confound the jade !' he muttered. * How dare she !'

"Bien his wrinkled countenance changed, and a pleasant
smile took the place of the angry look.

Confound her ! What a dig to give me with her sharp
tongue. Well, it's true enough, and I like her for it. Does
she like Claire, or does she hate her and pretend to feel all
this ? Who can say ? The more you know of a woman, the
greater mystery she seems. Poor old Denville ! The place
doesn't' seem natural without him and his snuff-box. I
miss hull horribly. Now I wonder whether they'd miss me
if I were to go — as I shall go — soon.'

He walked thoughtfully on.

Yes ; they'd miss me, and talk about me as if I were a
confounded old curiosity, and make jocular remarks about
my donkey — by George, how my corns shoot, I wish he
were here. But no one will care when I'm gone — not one ;
and no one will be the better for my having lived.'

He walked on slowly, thinking of the last time he had
seen Claire, and of the troubles that had fallen to her share,
and then he muttered :

'Yes ! something must be done.'

From Parade TO Prison.

Sunken of eye, hollow of cheek, with the silvery stubble of
many days' growth upon his chin, glistening in the bar of
light that came through the grated window, Stuart Denville,
Master of the Ceremonies at Saltinville, leigh-priest to the
votaries of fashion who worshipped at that seaside shrine,
sat upon his truckle bed, his head down upon his hands, his
elbows on his knees, gazing apparently at the dancing motes
in the well-defined ray of sunshine that illumined his cell.

It seemed as if he saw in those tiny motes that danced
and rose and fell, the fashionable people who had so influenced
his career ; but hour after hour, as he sat there
motionless, thinking of his arrest, his examination, the
fashionable world was to him something that had never
existed : he could see only the terminative.

On first picturing that terrible end, when, with hideous
exactness, the scaffold, the hangman, and the chaplain
whispering words of hope and comfort to the thin, repaired,

pinioned figure moving on in the slow procession had
loomed up before him in all their terrible minutiae, he had
shivered and shrunk away ; but, after a few repetitions of
this horrible waking dream, he had grown so accustomed toit
that he found himself conjuring up the scene, and gazing
at it mentally with a curious kind of interest that gradually
became fascination.

As to the final stage, it would not be so painful as many
pangs, mental and bodily, which he had suffered ; and, as
to the future, that troubled him but little. He saw no
terrors there, only a long restful sleep, freed from the cares
and sufferings that had for long past fallen to his lot.

There were no shudders now, but only a sad wistful smile
and a sigh almost of content, the rest of the future seemed
so welcome.

Yes,' he said at last, as he pressed his trembling white
hands to his lips, and left his seat to pace the cell, falling
for the moment involuntarily into his old mincing pace, but
stopping short and gazing up at the little patch of blue sky
he could see ; ' yes — rest — sleep — Oh, God, I am so weary.
Let it end !'

He stood with his hands clasped before him, and now a
cloud came over his countenance, almost the only cloud that
troubled him now. Claire ; if she only could know — if he
could tell her all — his temptations — his struggles — the long
fight he had passed through.

Then he thought over his past — the mistakes of his life.
How much happier he might have been if he had chosen
differently. How piteous had been aU this sham and
pretence, what a weary existence it had been — what insults
he had suffered for the sake of keeping up his miserable
position, and obtaining a few guineas.

May !

The thought of his child — his favoured one, with her pretty
innocent rosebud of a face and its appealing, trusting eyes.
How he had worshipped that girl ! How she had been his
idol. How he had believed in her and sacrificed everything
for her sake ; and now — he lay in prison, one whom the
world called murderer ; and she, his idol, to whom he had
sacrificed so long, for aught he knew, passing away, and
everyone turned from him and his family as if they were
lepers.

Well, he was a social leper. He had made no defence.
This man had charged him with the crime, and he had not
denied it. What wonder that people shrank from him as
if he were unclean, and kept away. It was his fate. Th
world turned from him — son — daughter. They feared the
contamination of the gaol.

No suffering that the executioner even could inflict
would equal the agony of mind through which he had
passed.

He clasped his hands more tightly and gazed fixedly

VOL. III. 41

before him, his Hps moving at last, as he said in a low
husky whisper :

All forsake me now. The Master of the Ceremonies
must prepare for the great ceremony of the law. Oh, that
it were over, and the rest were come !'

He was at the lowest ebb of his misery amid his meditations
and thoughts of home and the social wreck that was
there with her thin baby face, when there was the distant
sound of bolts being shot. Then there were steps and the
rustle of a dress, the rattle of a great key in the door. Next
the bolts of this were shot at top and bottom with a noisy
jar ; the door was thrust open, and the gaoler ushered in a
veiled figure in black. Then the door was closed, the locks
and bolts rattled ; the heavy steeds of the gaoler sounded
upon the stone floor, and then the farther door opened and
closed.

There was a moment's silence before, with a quick rustling
sound, veil and cloak were thrown aside upon the bed, and
Claire's soft arms clasped the wasted, trembling form
drawing the grey careworn face down upon her breast as
she sobbed out :

Father — father, has it come to this ?'

Denville remained silent for a few moments, and then
with an exceeding bitter cry :

My child ! my child !' he wailed. ' I said you had forsaken
me in my sore need.'

'Forsaken you, dear? Oh, no, no, no!' whispered Clause,
fondling him as if he had been a child, and gently drawing
him to the bed, upon which she sank, while he fell upon his
knees before her, utterly weak and helpless now, as he
yielded to the caresses she lavished upon him, and she
whispered words that seemed full of comfort — forerunners
of the rest he had prayed for so short a time before.

'Forsaken you?' she whispered. 'Oh, my dear, dear
father ! How could you think it of your child !'

The world says I am a murderer, and I am in prison.'

Hush !' she cried, laying her hand upon his lips. ' It
was only this morning I could get permission to see you.'

She laid her soft white hand upon his lips as she spoke,
and then, seeming to make an effort and check her own
emotion, she drew him closer to her.

Ah !' he sighed as he clung to her ; ' and I always acted
so unfairly to you, my child. But tell me — May ?'

She does not know,' said Claire earnestly. ' In her weak
state it might kill her.'

'Perhaps better it did,' said Denville solemnly. 'Poor,
weak, erring girl !'

Hush ! Don't !' cried Claire. ' Father, there is hope —
there is forgiveness for us all if we show that we are indeed
repentant. May is not like others. Always weak and
wilful and easily turned aside from what was right. No :
we must not despond. I must take you both far, far away,

41—2

dear. I have come for that now. Yon inst advise vv^ith
me and help me,' she said quickly. * Tell me what I am todo
— what I am to set about. Come, father, quick !'

What you are to do ?' he said sadly. ' Trust in heaven,
my child : we cannot shape our own paths in life, and when
we do try the end is wreck.'

Father,' she cried impetuously, ' do you think I was
speaking of myself ? I want you to tell me whom to ask
for help.'

Help, my child?'

Yes : for money. May I ask the Barclayss? They have
always been so kind. Surely they will help us now.'

Help us money ?' he said vacantly.

Yes, for your defence. "We must have counsel, father.
You shall be saved — saved that we may go far from here.
Father, I cannot bear it. You must be saved.'

He was startled by the wildness of her manner and the
fierce energy she threw into her words.

You do not speak,' she cried imperiously, and she laid
her hands upon his shoulders and gazed into his eyes. * You
must not, you shall not give up and let yourself drift to destruction.
Why do you not tell me? I am only a woman.
Father, what shall I do ?'

What shall you do ?' he said mournfully.

Yes, yes. Forgive me for what I say — I, your child,
who love you most dearly now that you are in this terrible

trouble. Father, we must go away together to some distant
place where, in a life of contrition and prayer, we may
appeal daily for the forgiveness that is given to those who
seek.'

He gazed in her eyes with his lip quivering, and a terrible
look of despair in his face.

Forgiveness for those who seek ?'

Yes, from a merciful God. Oh, father, if I wring your
heart in what I say it is because I love you as your child.'

'Ah!'

A piteous sigh escaped his lips, and his head sank down
upon his breast.

You are silent,' she cried reproachfully, 'silent, when the
time is so short. I shall be dragged from your side directly,
and you have not advised me what to do. I must have
money. I must get counsel for you and advice.'

He drew a long breath and raised his head, his lips parting
but uttering no sound.

Yes !' she cried, ' yes ! Speak, father. Shall I go to
Mr. Barclay ?'

*No.'

Then tell me w4iat I shall do, dear. Pray rouse yourself
from this despair. Speak — tell me. What shall I do
first?'

Nothing.'
'Nothing? Oh, father!'

They say I committed this murder — that I crushed out
the life of that miserable old woman. So be it.*

Father !'

I say — so be it,' he repeated firmly. * The law says one
life must answer for another. Well — I am ready.'

Claire wrung her hands, as he rose from where he had
knelt, and gazed at him in pitying wonder and awe.

God is merciful,' said the old man mournfully. * He
leadeth all our hearts. Claire, my child, I am not afraid to
die. I am sick for the rest that is to come.'

But, father !' wailed Claire.

My child, I know. I have thought of all. I have seen
everything in the silence and darkness of this cell ; but it is
only a passing away from this weary life to one that is full
of rest and peace. There is no injustice there.'

Father, you madden me,' whispered Claire hoarsely.
You must not give up like this. Tell me what to do.'

Think me innocent, my child,' he said softly — 'innocent
of that crime. And now let us talk of yourself and your
brother Morton.'

She noticed that he did not mention May's name.

It is very bitter,' he said. * I had hoped to provide for
my child, but I was not able. But there, you are stronger
of mind than I, and you will be protected. That woman,
Mrs. Barclay, loves you, my child. But Morton, he is a
mere boy, and weak — weak and vain, like his father, my

child — as I have been. Watch over him, Claire. Advise
him when he is falling away.'

Oh, yes, yes, yes, father ; but you '

I shall be at rest, my child,' he said sadly. ' Do not
think of me. Then there is '

He paused for a few moments with his lips quivering till
he saw her inquiring eyes, and with a heavy sigh he went on.

— There is May.'

He paused again, to go on almost lightly, but she read
the agony in his eyes, and clung to his arm and held it to
her breast.

This is like my will,' he said, * the only one I shall make.
There is May. I have not been fair, my dear. I have given
her all my love — to your neglect. I have made her my
idol, and — and — like her brother Morton, she is very weak.
Such a pretty child, beautiful as an angel. Claire dearest,
I loved her so well, and it has been my punishment for my
injustice to you.'

Dearest father !'

Yes, I was unjust to you, but that is past. I pray your
forgiveness, my child, as I say to you, I leave you the
legacy of that boy and girl — that child-wife. Claire, you
must forgive her, as I pray Him to forgive me. Ignore the
past, Claire, my child, and in every way you can be ready
to step between her and the e\dl that she goes too near.
You will do this ?'

Oh, father, yes. But you ? What shall I do now T

Clahe, only a few short weeks, and I shall be in my
grave. Don't start, my child. To you, in your sweet spring
of life, it is the black pit of horror. To me, in the bitter
winter of my life, there is no horror there : it is but the calm,
silent resting-place where tired nature sleeps and life's
troubles end. There, there, my little one, to whose sweet
virtues and truth I have been blind, I am almost content
with my fate for the reason that you have awakened
me from a trance into which I had fallen. Claire, my child,,
can you forgive this weak, vain, old man ?'

She leaned forward and kissed his white forehead, and,
as he drew her closer to him, she nestled in his breast, and
clung to him, sobbing convulsively.

Hah !' he sighed, ' I did not know I could be so happy
again. Think of me as an innocent — an injured man, my
child, as of one whose lips are sealed. Pray for me as I
shall pray for you.'

But, father, I may see Mr. Barclay ?'

He was silent for a few minutes.

Yes,' he said at last.

Claire uttered a sigh of relief.

You shall ask him to come here. I will appeal to him
to watch over you. He is rough, Claire, and his wife is
vulgar — coarse ; but, God help me ! I wish I had had such a
true and sterling heart. There, hush ! I have made my

will,' he said, smiling. ' It is done ; I have but to seal it with
my death, and I see its approach without a shade of fear.*

But, father ! my dearest father !'

My own,' he said tenderly, as he kissed her and smiled
down upon her. ' Ah ! you do not shrink from me now.
Sweet, true woman. Oh, that I could have been so blind I
You were going to ask me something.'

Yes, dearest,' she whispered ; * I want you to forgive '

May? Yes : she is forgiven. I forgive her, poor, weak
child. Tell her that I had but tender words for her even
now. I would send her messages, but of what avail would
they be, even as the words of a dying man ? No ; she has
not the stability. It is more her failing than her sin. You
were asking me to forgive her.'

I knew you forgave her, dearest, but I want you to forgive
poor Fred.'

He started from her as if he had been stung.

I saw him last night, and he begs and prays of you to
forgive him and let him come. Father, he loves you in spite
of all this estrangement.'

Silence !' cried the old man furiously. ' Have I not said
that I would not hear his name ?'

Father dearest, what have I done?' cried Claire, as she
gazed in terror at the convulsed features, at the claw-like
hands, extended, clutching, and opening and shutting as the
old man gasped for air.

'Father! Oh, help !'

A terrible purple colour suffused his face; his knotted
veins started upon his temples, and it seemed as if he were
about to fall in a fit ; but the paroxysm began to pass away.
He caught at Claire's hand, and held by it while with his
other he signed to her to be silent, for just then the clanking
of bolts and locks was heard, and the door was thrown open
to admit Richard Linnell and Mr. Barclay.

UNDER Barclay's shell.

Denville grew composed at once, and taking Claire's hand,
stood up facing his visitors with a slight trace of the old manner
returning, as he bowed and pointed to the stool and bed.
Poor accommodation for visitors, gentlemen,' he said ;

but it is the best I have to offer. Mr. Barclay, Mr. Linnell,
will you be seated ?'

Couldn't get to you before, Denville,' said the moneylender,
shaking hands warmly. * Terrible business this.
Miss Claire, my dear, the wife has gone to your house again.
Taken some things with her ; said she should stay.'

Mr. Denville, I am truly grieved,' said Linnell, offering
his hand, after giving Claire a grave, sad look. * Mr. Barclay
and I have come to see of what service we can be to
you.'

Yes, yes, of course, Denville,' cried Barclay briskly.

Bad business, this, but — eh, Mr. Linnell ?'

Miss Denville,' said the latter, turning to Claire, ' as weare

about to discuss business matters about counsel and
your father's defence, would you like to leave us ?'

No,' said Denville quickly, as he drew Claire's hand
through his arm, and shook his head. ' You will pardon me,
gentlemen, but in the little space of time I am allowed to see
visitors, I should like to keep my child by my side. Gentlemen
— Mr. Barclay — Mr. Linnell — half an hour ago I said
that I had no friends. I was wrong — I thank you for
coming. God bless you !'

Why, of course you had friends, Denville,' cried Barclay.
You don't suppose because a man's hard and fast over money
matters, that he has no bowels of compassion, do you ? But
now, business. About counsel for your defence ?'

I had already discussed the matter with my daughter,
gentlemen. Counsel ! It is useless. I need none.'

Need none, Mr. Denville ?' cried Linnell quickly. * Pray
think of what you are saying. You must have legal
help.'

Claire darted a grateful look at Linnell, and then drew
back with pain depicted in her countenance, mingled with
pride and mortification as she saw the coldness in his manner
towards her.

I must repeat what I said, Mr. Linnell,' said Denville ina
low, pained voice. * I want no counsel. I will have none,
but I thank you all the same, Mr. Barclay. Claire, my child,
you will pardon me. I must speak with Mr. Barclay.'

Claire shrank into one corner of the cell, her brow drawn
with the pain inflicted upon her as her father kept reverting
to his old displays of deportment and mincing ways — ways
that had become so habitual that even now, incongruous as
they were, he could not quite throw them off.

You need not go, Mr. Linnell,' he continued, ' that is if
you will bear with the pain of listening to a dying man's
request. We have never been friends, sir, but I am your
debtor now for your kindly act. My dear Barclay, the little
drama of my poor life is nearly over ; the curtain is about to
fall. You have known me long — my little ambitious hopes
and disappointments. I cannot say to my child there is a

home for her with her sister ; well you help her when

you know what I would say ?'

Denville, old fellow, I don't know what to say to this,'

said Barclay quickly. ' It's a mystery to me. D it, sir,

I can't believe you killed that old woman even now. I want
to get you counsel who will clear you, sir, and throw the
deed on to whoever did it — some one unknown.'

Hush ! — hush ! Pray hush !' cried Denville, shuddering.
We are wasting time. Barclay — my daughter.'

My dear old fellow,' said the money-lender quickly, * I
told you that my wife had gone on to your place to see Miss
Claire there. Don't you be afraid for her. She has a friend
in Mrs. B. who will never fail her. Friend ? She will prove
a mother. Don't you trouble about Miss Claire. There's

only one obstacle to her having a happy home, and that's

me, and '

He stopped short, for his voice had turned husky, and
gripping Denville's hand very tightly, he held it for a few
minutes.

God bless her sweet face !' he whispered ; ' we never believed
one of the miserable scandals about her, Denville.
But now about yourself.'

Denville turned away his face, took a couple of steps to-the
side, and stood with his back to them for a few minutes.
Then, turning, with his face wearing a curious look of calm,,
he laid his hand upon Barclay's arm.

You have taken away the bitterness of death, Barclay,"
he said in a low voice. * Heaven help me for the weakest of
men. I never knew who were my friends.'

Then you will let us get counsel for you ?'

No, no ! I forbid it,' said Denville sternly. ' Good-bye,.
Mr. Linnell. I thank you. Barclay, God bless you !'

His voice trembled as he pressed the money-lender's hand,,
for the gaoler had opened the door, and was waiting to
usher them out.

Claire, my child,' he whispered, taking her in his arms
you will come again. Good-bye now. Good-bye.'

She clung to him wildly for a few moments, and then,,
with a look of desolation in her eyes, slowly followed the
gaoler and the other visitors along the echoing stone passages

to the gate, where Linnell laid his hand upon her
arm.

Before he could speak there was a rustle of a silk dressa
hurried panting as some one brushed by him, and a
voluble voice exclaimed :

They wouldn't let me in, my dear, and I've been waiting
for you to come. There, there, there, you and May are
coming home along with me, and '

Her voice died away as Linnell stood there, feeling desolate
and cold. There was an intense bitterness in this heart, ashe
told himself that his love for Claire was of a very poor
type, that he had been ready to believe ill of her, and let
that love become chilled. What had he done now that she
was plunged into the very depths of despair ? Almost held
aloof when he would have given all he had — life itself — to
save her from her pain.

I am mad, jealous, weak, and contemptible,' he cried to
himself at last. * I will go to her and tell her I love her
more than ever. It is not too late.'

He had taken a step to follow, when a hand was laid upon
his arm, and Barclay said huskily :

There's a woman for you, Mr. Linnell, sir. I often think
she ought to have had a better husband. There, the best
thing is to let them alone together. You wouldn't think
it, Mr. Linnell, with me, such a hard nut as I am, but this
business has quit upset me. Good-day, sir, good-day.'

Good-day, Mr. Barclay,' said Linnell dreamily ; and they
were parting, when Barclay said in a low quick whisper :

You may think of some way of helping the old fellow,
Mr. Linnell. If you do there's any amount of money ready
for the lawyers, if you give me a hint. For he's an innocent
man, sir. Kill that old woman? Pio ! Pooh! Stuff!
He couldn't kill a cat !'

FRED Danville FORWARD.

What do you say, my dear — another of those mad fits of
excitement as soon as my name's mentioned ? Oh, it's too
bad. I don't think I've ever been rake enough to deserve it.
Well, whether or no, I must go and see him. I can't stop away.
I'm his eldest son, and a man's a man even if he is a common
soldier, and has disgraced himself in the eyes of society.'

Fred dear, I'm broken-hearted,' sobbed Claire, as she
nestled close to her brother, and hid her face in his breast,
neither seeing nor hearing Mr. and Mrs. Barclay open the
door and cross the room, the latter making a sign to the
dragoon not to take any notice of them, and as soon as she
was alone with her husband, saying indignantly :

The scandalous old hags, making out that the poor dear
was carrying on with a common soldier. Lor' ! Jo-si-ah,
what a little wickedness there would seem to be in the
world if everything was properly explained.'

Well, I don't know so much about that,' replied Barclay.

VOL. III. 42

Perhaps we should find out some of the very innocent ones
were not so good as they seemed.'

I shall go on at once and see the old man,' said Fred
Denville, kissing his sister tenderly. *I can't stop away.
The old fellow will be calmer perhaps to-day ; and, Claire,
my girl, I'm going to try and get my discharge, and start a
new life. It's a strange thing if I can't keep a home for you
and take care of you. I can't stand this soldiering any
longer. Servant to that blackguard, Eockley ! Has he
spoken to you lately ?'

No, Fred,' said Claire wearily. * No.'

I can't stand it, girl. It's a shame to talk of my beggarly
troubles now, but it's precious hard to be meeting one's own
brother — one's superior officer — and him not to know me.
Has Morton been to see father ?'

N-no, dear ; not yet.'

Curse him !'

Fred !— dear Fred !'

Well, no, I won't curse him. It's the boy's training, not
his nature. He ought not to cut the poor old man, though,

in his disgrace. Claire, d it all ; I don't believe father

killed that old thing.'

He looked at his sister with a quick intelligent gaze, full
of conviction ; but as he met her full in the eyes, and saw the
change that came over her countenance, the conviction
seemed blunted, and he shuddered.

She believes it !' he muttered. Then aloud : * Why,
Claire !'

Hush — don't — don't speak to me — don't say anything,'
she panted. * Fred, shall I be dragged before the judge and
be forced to answer questions — horrible questions ?'
He was silent.

'You believe I shall. You think I shall,' she panted.
Oh, Fred, Fred, I would sooner die.'

He drew a long breath, and looked at her in a horrified
way, while she seemed to be growing wild with dread.

I could not bear it,' she cried, * to go up before those
people and condemn my own father. It would be too
horrible. It would be against nature. I could not, I would
not speak.'

Hush, little sister,' said Fred tenderly. * You are growing
wild. Perhaps you will not have to go. Perhaps they
will find out the right man before the time — hush ! — hush !'
Claire had uttered a piteous cry full of despair, as she
buried her face in her hands.

I cannot bear it — I cannot bear it,' she cried. ' There,
go — go and see him,' she said quickly. ' You must go. It
would be too cruel to stay away from him now he is so low
in spirit. Be gentle with him, Fred, if he says hard things
to you ; and pray — pray don't resent them. You will bear
everything for my sake — say that you will.'
Of course, of course.'

42—2

Trouble and misery have made him irritable, and so that
he hardly knows what he says at times.'

'Poor old fellow!' said the dragoon sadly. * Ah, Claire,
my little girl, it did not want this trouble in our unhappy
home.'

He kissed her very tenderly, and then, as if moved by some
sudden impulse, he took her in his arms again and held her
to his breast, whilst she clung to him as if he were her only
hope, and so they remained in silence for a time.

At last he loosed himself from her embrace, and stood
over her as she crouched down upon the sofa.

I'm going there now, Claire,' he said, * but before I go,
have you anything to say to me about that night of the
murder ? Is there anything I ought to know, so as to be
able to talk to the old man about his defence ? Will he tell
me all he knows about the affair — why, Claire, child, what is
the matter — are you going wild ?'

He caught her two hands, and held her, startled by the
change which had come over her, as she shrank from him
in horror, with eyes dilated, face drawn and lips
apart.

There, my little girl,' he said, with rough tenderness, * I
ought to have known better than to talk to you about it.
Perhaps all will come right yet after all.'

Claire seemed to be so prostrated that it was some time
before he attempted to leave her, and then it was upon her

urging, for she seemed at last to rouse herself to action, and
with feverish haste bade him go.

It is your duty, Fred,' she said agitatedly, * but — but
don't question him — don't say a word to him. Only go to
him as the son to the father in terrible distress. Let him
speak to you if he will.'

'But his defence, girl, his defence. Something must be
done, and I am without a guinea in the world.'

Mr. Barclay — Mr. Linnell are arranging that without his
knowledge,' said Claire. ' I had forgotten to tell you, Fred:
my head seems confused and strange.*

No wonder, little one,' he said. 'Ah, I like that Barclay.
One never knows who are our friends until trouble
comes — and young Linnell. It isn't a time to talk about such
things now, Claire ; but young Linnell's a good fellow, and
he thinks a great deal of you.'

Claire joined her hands as if begging him to be silent, and
he once more kissed her, and after begging Mrs. Barclay to
watch over her, hurried away.

FATHER AND SON.

James Bell, dragoon, otherwise Fred Denville, the disgraced
prodigal of the Master of the Ceremonies' home, had
a couple of shillings in his pocket as he strode towards the
prison ; and as he was on his way, low-spirited and
despondent at the troubles of his house, a great thirst came
upon him, and he felt that he could never go through the
scene he had to encounter without a stimulant in some form.

Then he thought of what a curse drink was to him, and
how he could not take one glass without wanting another,
and many others, and with this thought he manfully passed
the first public-house.

But, as he passed, the door was swung open, and the
hot, spiritous odour of strong drinks floated out and half
maddened him.

Just one glass would tighten me up,' he muttered, * and I
could go through with it better.'

He thought of his last interview with his father, their

struggle, and how he had nearly struck him, and he shrank
from what was to come.

I can't help it,' he said. ' I must have a drop. It will
steady a fellow's nerves. Good God ! how horrible to go
and see that old man charged with murder.'

He had thought a great deal about it before, but now the
whole affair struck him as if in a new light, and the examinations,
the trial, and the following of that trial came upon
him with a terrible force that frightened him. It had never
seemed so horrible before, and he burst out in a cold
perspiration as in imagination he saw the white bared head
of the old man, with wild eyes and ghastly face — saw him
in the grey of some chilly morning, pinioned and with the
white-robed priest by his side, walking towards

It was too horrible ! A curious feeling of blind terror
made him shiver and hurry on, as something seemed to
whisper in his ear, ' He did murder that wretched old
woman, and he must suffer for his crime.'

Curse me, I must have some brandy, or I shall never be
able to face him,' he gasped, as he strode on, no longer
the stern, upright, well-built cavalry soldier, but a bent,
trembling man, at whom more than one passer-by looked
askance. He even reeled, and albeit perfectly sober, he
evoked comments upon 'these drunken soldiers' in the
streets.

It is too horrible,' he said again. * I never saw it like

this before;' and, hurrying on with unsteady step, he was
making straight for a pubic-house he knew, when, on
turning a corner, he suddenly encountered Major Eockley.

The meeting was so sudden that he had passed him before
he remembered his duty to salute his superior; but the
encounter brought with it a flood of recollections of the night
of Mrs. Pontardent's party, and the remembrance of his
helplessness, and of the pangs he had suffered as he awoke
to the fact, as he believed, that the sister he almost
worshipped was in the power of a relentless scoundrel. This
cleared the mental fumes that were obscuring his intellect
and, drawing himself up, he strode on straight past the
public-house door and on to the prison gates.

It's time I acted like a man,' he said to himself, ' and
not like a cowardly brute.'

He was provided with a pass, and, in ignorance of the
fact that Eockley had turned and was watching him, following
him, and standing at a distance till he saw him enter
the gates, he rang, presented his paper, and was ushered
along the blank stone passages of the prison till he reached
the cell door.

One minute,' whispered Fred, wiping the drops from his
forehead, as a sudden trembling fit came over him. Then,
mastering it, and drawing himself up, he breathed heavily
and nodded to the gaoler.

I'm ready,' he said hoarsely : * open.'

The next minute he was standing in the whitewashed
cell with the door closed behind him, locked in with the
prisoner and half choked with emotion, gazing down at the
bent grey head.

For the Master of Ceremonies was seated upon a low
stool, his arms resting upon this knees, and his hands clasped
between them, probably asleep. He had not heard the
opening and closing of the door, and if not asleep, was so
deaf to all but his own misery that Fred Denville felt that
he must go and touch him before he would move.

The young man's breast swelled, and there was a catching
in his breath as he looked down upon the crushed,
despondent figure, and thought of the change that had
taken place. The light from the barred window streamed
down upon hin alone, leaving the rest of the cell in shadow ;
and as Fred Den\dlle gazed, he saw again the overdressed
leader of the fashionable editors mincing along the Parade,
cane in one hand, snuff-box in the other, and the box
changed to the hand holding the cane while a few
specks of snuff were brushed from the lace of his shirt-front.


Then he looked back farther, and seemed to ee the tall,
important, aristocratic-looking gentleman, to whom people
of quality talked, and of whom he always stood in such awe ;
and now, with this came the recollection of his boyish
wonder how it was that his father should be so grand a man

abroad while everything was so pinched and miserable at
home.

Back flitted his thoughts as he stood there, looking down
at the motionless figure, to the encounter when he had been
surprised by his father with Claire. The terrible rage ; the
fit ; the horrible hatred and dislike the old man had shown,
and the unforgiving rancour he had displayed .

Fred Denville sighed as it all came back, but he felt no
resentment now, for his breast was full of memories of acts
of kindness that had been shown him as a boy, before he
grew wild and resisted the paternal hand, preferring the
reckless soldier's life to the irksome poverty and pretence of
the place-seeker's home and its pinching and shams.

Poor old dad !' he said to himself, as the tears stood in
his eyes ; ' he is brought very low. Misery makes friends.
God help him now !'

The stalwart dragoon, moved by his emotion, took a
couple of quick steps forward and went down upon one knee
by the old man's side, took his hands gently in both of his
own, and held them in a firm, strong clasp, as he uttered the
one word — ^;

Father !'

The touch and the voice seemed to galvanize the prisoner,
who started upright, gazing wildly at his son, and then
shrank back against the wall with his hands outstretched
to keep him off.

There was a terrible silence for a space, during which
Fred Denville remained upon his knee, then slowly joining
his hands as he looked pleadingly in his father's face, he
said slowly :

Yes, I know I have been a bad son ; I have disgraced
you. But, father, can you not forgive me now ?'

The old man did not speak, but shrank against the wall,
looking upon him with loathing.

Father,' said Fred again, * you are in such trouble. It is
so dreadful. I could not stay away. Let us be friends
once more, and let me help you. I will try so hard. I am
your son.'

Again there was that terrible silence, during which the old
man seemed to be gathering force, and the look of horror
and loathing intensified as he glared at the man humbling
himself there upon his knee.

Do you not hear me ?' cried Fred, piteously. * Father :
I am your son.'

No !' exclaimed Denville, in a low, hoarse whisper that
was terrible in its intensity. * No : you are no son of mine.
Hypocrite, villain — how dare you come here to insult me in
my misery ?'

Insult you, father !' said Fred softly. * No, no, you do
not know me. You do not understand what brings me here.'

Not know ? — not understand ?' panted Denville, still in
the same hoarse whisper, as if he dreaded to be heard. * I

tell you I know all I saw all. It was what I might

have expected from yom* career.'
Father !'

Silence, dog ! Oh, that I had strength ! I feel that as
I gave you the life you dishonour, I should be doing a duty
to take you by the throat, and crush it out from such a
wretch.'

He's mad,' thought the young man as he gazed on the
wild distorted face.

You thought that you were unseen — that your crime was
known but to yourself ; but such things cannot be hidden,
such horrors are certain to be known. And now, wretch,
hypocrite, coward, you have brought me to this, and you
come with your pitiful canting words to ask me for pardon
me, the miserable old man whom you have dragged down
even to this — a felon's cell from which I must go to the
scaffold.'

No — no, father,' panted Fred. * Don't — for God's sake,
don't talk like this. I've been a great blackguard — a bad
son ; but surely you might forgive me — your own flesh and
blood, when I come to you on my knees, in sorrow and
repentance, to ask forgiveness, and to say let me try and
help you in your distress. Come, father — my dear old father
give me your hand once more. Let the past be dead, for
Claire's sake, I ask you. I am her brother — your boy.'

Silence ! Wretch I' cried the old man. ' Leave this

place. Let me at least die in peace, and not be defiled
by the presence of such a loathsome, cowardly thing as

soil*

And you,' said Fred softly, as he held out his hands ;
you, I can remember it well, used to hold these hands
together, father, and teach me to say, "Forgive us our trespasses,
as we forgive them that trespass against us." Father,
have I sinned so deeply as all this T

Sinned !' cried the old man starting forward, and catching
his son by the throat. 'Sinned? Blasphemer! coward!
hypocrite ! You dare to say this to me ! Go, before I try
to strangle you, for I cannot contain myself when you are
here.'

Father 1' cried Fred, kneeling unresisting as the old man
clasped him tightly by the throat, 'are you mad?'

Would to God I were before I had lived to see this day,'
cried Denville, still in the same hoarse whisper. ' But go
I have done ill enough in my wretched life without adding
murder to the wrong. Go, and coward that you are, escape
to some far-off land where your crime is not known, and
there try and repent, if you can. No, there can be no
repentance for the coward who destroys one wretched, helpless
life, and then to save his own worthless body — he can
have no soul — sends his poor, worn-out, broken father to
the scaffold.'

Fred did not move, but gazed pityingly in his father's face.

You cannot be a man,' continued Denville, ' a man as
other men. You do not speak — you do not speak. Fool !
Murderer ! Do you think that your crime was not known?'

Fred still remained silent, gazing in the convulsed face,
with the veins in the temples throbbing, the eyes glaring
wildly, and the grey hairs seeming to rise and move.

Speak, since you have forced it upon me, though I would
have gone to the scaffold without a word, praying that my
sacrifice might expiate my own child's crime. Speak, I say:
do you still think it was not known ?'

Fred Denville remained upon his knees, but neither spoke
nor resisted.

I tell you that when I awoke to the horrors of that night,
I said to myself, " He is my own son — my own flesh and
blood — I cannot speak. I will not speak. I will bear it."
And I have borne it — in silence. Wretch that you are —
listen. I have, to screen you, borne all with my lips sealed,
and let that sweet, pure-hearted girl shrink from me, believing
God help me ! — that mine was the hand that crushed out
yon poor old creature's life.'

Father, you are raving,' cried Fred hoarsely.

Having ! It is true. Claire, my own darling, has gone,
too, with sealed lips, loathing me, and only out of pity and
belief in her duty as a child borne with my presence — poor
sweet suffering saint — believing me a murderer, and I dare
not tell her I was innocent, and that it was the brother she

loved, who had come in the night, serpent-like, to the room
he knew so well, to murder, and to steal those wretched bits
of glittering glass.'
My dear father !'

Silence, wretch!' cried Denville. * I tell you, knowing
all, I said that I could not speak, for I was only a broken
old man, and that my son might repent ; that I could not
condemn him and be his judge. And, my God ! it has come
to this ! I have borne all. I have suffered maddening agony
as I have seen the loathing in my poor child's eyes. I have
borne all uncomplaining, and when, as I dreaded, the exposure
came, I unmurmuringly suffered myself to be taken,
and I will go to the scaffold and die, a victim — an innocent
victim for you, so that you may live ; but let me die in peace.
Free me from your presence, and I will wait till, in a better
world, my darling can come and say, '* Forgive me, father;
I was blind." '

Heaven help me ! What shall I say ?' muttered Fred.
Poor old fellow ! It has turned his brain.'

The old man was in the act of throwing him off and
shrinking from him when Fred caught his hands.

My dear old father,' he said tenderly, * neither Claire
nor I believe that you could commit this terrible crime. You
must be cleared from all suspicion, and — come — come — let
us be friends. You v^ll forgive me, father — all the past ?'

Forgive you ? No, I cannot. It is impossible. I have

tried. Sitting here alone in this awful silence, with the
shadow of the gallows falling across me, I have tried, but it
is impossible. I will suffer for your crime. I have told you
that I will, but upon one condition, that you never go near
Claire again. She thinks me guilty, but she has fought hard
and striven to forgive me. Do not pollute her with your
presence, but go far away from here. Go at once, lest in
the weakness of my nature I should be tempted to try and
save myself from death by confessing all.'

Heaven help me !' said Fred again ; ' he is mad.*

He had spoken aloud, shaping his thoughts unconsciously,
and the old man took up his words.

God help me ! I wish I were,' he said pitifully, * for
the mad must be free from the agony which I have to
bear.'

Fred rose to his feet and looked at the old man aghast.
Then, as if for the first time, he seemed to realize that his
father was not wandering in his mind, and clasping the thin
arms tightly, he pressed him back into a sitting position
upon the bed, bending over him, and, in his great strength,
holding him helplessly there, as he said quickly, and with a
fierce ring in his voice :

Why, father, do you know what you are saying ? You
do not think I killed Lady Teigne ?'

Hypocrite !' cried the old man fiercely.

Speak out, man !' cried Fred, as fiercely now. ' What

do you mean? How dare you charge me with such a
crime !'

Hypocrite !' panted the old man again. * You cannot
shield yourself now. It is a punishment for my weakness
that day — that night. I would not have done it,' he cried
wildly, * but I was at my last gasp for money. Everything
was against me. I had not a shilling, and there all that
day the devil was dancing the jewels of that miserable old
woman before my eyes.'

Father !' cried Fred, * for God's sake, don't tell me you
killed her — for God's sake don't. No, no ; it is not true.'

Silence ! hypocrite ! murderer !' cried the old man.
Listen. I tell you that all that day the devil was dancing
those diamonds before my eyes. I saw them in the glittering
waters of the sea. I turned to Claire, and her eyes shone
like diamonds. The night came, and the sky was all studded
with gems, and they were sparkling and reflected in the
water. Diamonds — always diamonds ; and above stairs, in
that room, a casket with necklet and bracelets, all diamonds,
and the devil always whispering in my ear that I had but
to get two or three taken out and replaced with paste, while
I pledged the real stones for a few months, and redeemed
them as soon as I could turn myself round. Do you hear
me?'

Yes, I hear you,' said Fred, with a strange look of horror
intensifying in his face.

VOL. III. 43

I fought against the temptation. I struggled with it, as
I said that I had always been a weak, foolish fashion-seeker,
but an honest gentleman. I swore that I would not defile
myself by such a crime ; but there were my bills ; there was
the demand for money for a score of pressing necessities,
and the fiend whispered to me that it would not be a crime,
only taking them from that miserable old worldly creature
as a loan.'

Go on,' said Fred hoarsely; 'go on.' And he stared
with horror in the old man's upturned face.

Then the night came, and my children went to their
beds innocent of the agony I suffered, for there was the
temptation stronger than before. I went to my room, and
looked out. The sea and sky were all diamonds; and I
tore back the blind, and I said that I must have two or
three of the wretched stones — that I would have them —
borrow them for a time, and be free.'

Oh, father, father !' groaned Fred ; and Denville went
on excitedly.

I said I would have them, and I waited till it would be
safe to go. I knew that the old woman would have taken
her sleeping-draught, and that it would be easy enough to
go in and get her keys — I knew where she kept them — take
out the diamond cross, get the stones changed, and replace
it before she would miss it the next afternoon.'

Fred groaned, and the old man went on, clutching him

now by the arm as he spoke, gazing fiercely in his eyes the
while.

I waited till all were sleeping, and the time seemed to
have come, and then, like a thief, I stole out of my room
and along the passage, till I was outside the door where the
old woman — poor old wreck of a woman — lay. It was only
to borrow those diamonds for a time, and I meant to replace
them, though I knew that I was little better than a thief — a
cold-blooded, treacherous thief — to deal thus with the
woman who trusted to my honour for her safety. But I
was so sorely pressed for money, I said to myself; and
keeping my creditors quiet meant placing Morton and Claire
both well in life, and then my troubles would cease. Do
you hear me ?'

Yes — I hear,' groaned Fred.

I stood there on the mat outside her door thinking that,
and that it would be for Claire's sake ; and as I thought
that, I saw her sweet, pure face before me, as it were, her
eyes looking into mine ; and I said : " How can I ever look
into those eyes openly again?" I felt that I was still a
gentleman, but that in a few minutes I should be a despicable
thief. Then I raised my hand to open the door, always
unfastened so that Claire might go in and out, but it dropped
to my side, and I sank upon my knees and prayed for
strength to resist temptation, and the strength I asked was
given.'

43—2

The old man paused, for there was a step outside m the
stone passage, and it seemed that the gaoler was coming
there ; but he passed on, and Denville gripped his son's arm
more tightly.

I don't knows how long I knelt there, but I was rising,
with the temptation crushed, and as I rose I was going
back to my room.'

Hah !' ejaculated Fred excitedly, and he breathed more
freely.

Back to my room, boy, when I seemed to be roused
from the stupor brought on by my agony of mind, for there
was a sound in the countess's chamber. I listened, and
there it was again. It was a confused sound, as if she were
moving in her bed, and I thought she must be ill, and want
Claire. I was about to go and rouse her, when there were
other sounds ; there was a loud crash, and I stood as if
turned to ice.'

You heard sounds !' gasped Fred ; and he looked horror-stricken
and shrinking as his father seemed to grow in
strength.

Yes,' whispered the old man fiercely, as he seemed to fix
Fred Denville with his eye ; * I heard sounds that froze me
with horror, as I felt that my temptation had been in the
shape of a warning of evil, and that another was at work in
the poor old woman's room. For a few minutes I could not
stir. Then, mastering my horror and fear, and calling

myself coward, I hushed into the room, to find myself face
to face with him who had entered before. I saw all at a
glance, as a hoarse groan came from the bed — the curtain
torn aside, and the murderer by the dressing-table, with the
jewel-casket in his hand.'

You saw all this ?' cried Fred, white as ashes now.
Father, you saw this ?'

Everything, as I dashed — old weak man as I was — at
the wretch who had done this thing. It was only a momentary
struggle, and I was thrown down, and saw him dart to
the folding-doors and pass through. I staggered after him
in time to hear him overturn a pot or two in the verandah,
as he swung himself over and slid down the pillar. Then I
was alone panting there in that chamber of death ; for as I
took the candle from the little stand, and drew aside the
curtain, it was to gaze down upon the starting eyes of the
strangled woman — dead in my house, under the protection
of my roof ; and, with the horrible thought upon me that
only a brief while back I was nearly entering that chamber
to play the part of thief, I gave no alarm, but shrank
towards the door, and stole out trembling, bathed with sweat,
to get back to my room, and try to think out what I should
do.'

Fred Denville groaned, and the old man's breath went
and came with the sound of one who has been hunted till he
stands at bay.

I had not been there a mute before I heard steps ; a
light shone beneath my door, and I sat trembling, utterly-prostrated,
for I knew that it was Claire who had been
alarmed. I wanted to go out and stop her, to set her on
her guard ; but I sat there as if suffering from nightmare
unable to move, even when she came at last and summoned
me ; and, like one in a dream, I listened to what she had to
say, and followed her to the murdered woman's room. I
could not stay her ; I could do nothing. I dared not give
the alarm ; I dared not speak, but went with her, and saw
all again in a dazed,. confused way, till I noticed something
on the floor, which I snatched up and hid from Claire ; and
then the confusion was gone — driven away by the agony I
felt. My God, what agony, as I read in Claire's eyes that
she believed I had done that deed !'

She believed this of you ?'

Yes ; and believes it still,' groaned the prisoner.

'But — but,' cried Fred excitedly, 'what was it you
snatched from the floor ?'

A knife ; a knife I knew. One that I had seen before.'
But the murderer — you saw him ?'

Plainly as I see you.'

But you did not summon help.'
I could not.'

I knew you were innocent,' cried Fred excitedly. ' I
swore you were.'

I am,' said the old man coldly.

Should you know the wretch again ?* panted Fred.

Yes ; too well.'

But you did not say this at the inquest.'

My lips were closed.'

But, father, you do not '

Silence, hypocrite ! Enough of this. I could not speak.
I dare not tell the world the murderer was my own son.'

Fred Den\alle drew himself erect. His father rose from
the bed, and the two men stood gazing for some minutes in
each other's eyes without a word. -

It was the Master of the Ceremonies who broke the spell.

Now,' he said, ' I have spoken. It is enough. Your
secret is safe with me. Go. Repent, but do not ask me to
forgive you. Ask that of Heaven. I am old and broken,
and can die.'

But, father !' groaned Fred wildly, * it was not I.'

It was my eldest son. I saw him as he struggled with
me — in his uniform, and I picked up afterwards from the
floor his knife — his pocket-knife that had been used to
wrench open the casket of jewels. The knife with *' E. M."
on the handle. It was given to my son by the fisherman,
Miggles.'

Yes, Dick gave me that knife years ago,' said Fred, speaking
like one who has received a tremendous blow. ' I have
not seen it since that night.'

No,' said the old man bitterly; * it lies far out beyond
the end of the pier, buried deep in sand by now.'

Fred Denville stood holding his hands pressed to his head,
staring straight before him at the whitewashed wall, while
neither spoke.

The silence was broken by the rattling of bolts and the
turning of a key, when the gaoler threw open the door, and,
without a word, the dragoon walked, or rather reeled, from
the cell, as if he had taken strong drink till his senses were
nearly gone.

BLOW FOR BLOW.

Fred Denville went straight to Barclay's, and was
admitted, Claire looking at him reproachfully as he threw
himself into a chair.

Oh, Fred !' she cried, ' and at such a time !'

Not been drinking,' he said ; ' not been drinking. How's
May?'

'Very ill, dear,' said Claire sadly.

Here ?'

Yes, Mrs. Barclay insisted upon her being brought, so
that we could be together.'

God bless her,' said Fred softly. Then, after a pause —
I've seen the old man.'

And you are friends, Fred ?'

He shook his head, and sat staring down at the carpet.

But you tried to be, dear?'

Yes ; tried hard. I've been. I've done my duty — for
once,' he said with a strange laugh.

He did not speak again for a few minutes, and Claire sat
holding his hand, looking at him doubtingly, his manner was
so strange.

You think I've been drinking,' he cried fiercely. * Give a
dog a bad name, and then hang him. I haven't touched a
drop to-day.'

He changed his manner to her directly, and his voice was
low and tender as he took her to his breast and kissed her.

'Poor little Glairy,' he said; 'you've had a rough time.
Never mind ; brighter days coming. The old man will be
found innocent.'

Innocent, Fred ?' she faltered.

Yes, innocent,' he cried. ' Wait : you will see. Claire,
look here. Tell me this. Did I ever talk about Lady
Teigne's jewels when I came to see you ?'

I don't know, dear. Yes, I remember now, I think you
did.'

Hah!' he ejaculated. ' I must go now. Good-bye, little
woman. I always loved my little sister, always. You
know that, don't you, Claire?'

Yes, dear Fred, always.'

Bad as I was ?'

Oh, Fred, I never thought you bad,' cried Claire piteously.
' I only thought it was a pity you did not try to

raise yourself, and '

Leave the drink alone. Quite right, Claire. It was the

drink. It makes a man stupid and mad. He doesn't know
what he's about when he has taken too much. Eemember
that, my dear, it was the drink.'

Fred, how strangely you are talking.'

Strangely?' he said, clasping her to his breast, * strangely ?
Well, I meant to be kind and tender to my poor, suffering
little sister. I've been a bad lot, but I always loved my
little Claire.'

She stood gazing wonderingly after him, he seemed sa
strange in his way, as, after straining her to his breast, he
kissed her passionately again and again, and then turned
and literally ran from the room, while, as she placed her
hand against her face, she found that it was wet.

Poor Fred,' she said, ' if I could only win him from hiS'
ways.'

She said no more, for her thoughts were onh- too ready to*
turn to their usual theme — her father and his imprisonment,
and she sat down to rest her aching head upon her
hand, wondering what had passed during the interview
within the prison walls.

Fred Demille found Mr. and Mrs. Barclay below, and ina
quick, agitated way he caught Mrs. Barclay's hand.

It's very kind of you to let me call upon my sister,' he
said, ' seeing what I am. I thank you. I am not coming
again.'

Not coming again ? Oh, I'm sure you're welcome enough,

Mr. Fred, for your sister's sake,' said Mrs. Barclay, ' isn't
he, Jo-si-ah?'

Of course, of course.'

Thank you — both of you,' cried Fred hastily. ' You are
very good, and that's why I say be kind to my poor sisters,
and try and comfort both if anything happens.'

Oh, but we must not let anything happen,' said Barclay.
The poor old gentleman must be saved.'

Yes, of course,' said Fred dreamily ; * he must be saved.
He's innocent enough, poor old fellow. I did not mean
that. You'll take care of the poor girls, won't you ?'

Why, of course we will, Mr. Fred Denville ; of course
we will. There, don't you make yourself uneasy about
them.'

I won't,' said Fred, in his bluff, straightforward way.
I may be quite happy, then, about Claire ?'

To be sure you may.'

I shouldn't like her to suffer any more, and it would be
terrible for those wretched dandy scoundrels to get hold of
her and break her heart.'

Don't you fidget yourself about that, young man,' said
Mrs. Barclay with quite a snort. * Your dear sister's too
proud for any jack-a-dandy fellow to win her heart.'

You're a good woman,' said Fred softly. ' I'm not much
account as a man, but I know a good woman when I meet
one, and I wish I'd had such a one as you by me when I

was a boy. If I had, I shouldn't have been a common
soldier now. Good-bye, ma'am ; good-bye, sir. Heaven
bless you both.'

He hurried out, afraid of showing this emotion, and Mrs.
Barclay turned round wiping her eyes.

There, Jo-si-ah, you see everybody don't think ill of us,
bad as we are.'

Humph ! no,' said Barclay thoughtfully ; ' but I don't
understand that chap — he's so strange. Why, surely, old
girl, he had no hand in that murder.'

Lor ! Jo-si-ah, don't ! You give me the creeps all over.
I do wish you wouldn't think about murders and that sort
of thing. You give me quite a turn. I wouldn't have my
dear Claire hear you for the world.'

All right ! I won't say anything before her ; but this
young chap has set me thinking; he seemed so strange.'

Other people thought Fred Denville strange, notably
Major Rockley, who, in company with Sir Matthew Bray
and Sir Harry Payne, was on the Parade, as, with brows
knit and eyes bent down, the dragoon came along, walking
swiftly.

The three officers were in undress uniform, having just
left parade, and each carried his riding whip.

Fred did not notice them, he was too deep in thought, and
walking straight on he went right between them, unintentionally
giving Sir Matthew Bray a rough thrust with his

shoulder, for of course an officer could not give way to a
private.

It was Fred Denville's duty, in the character of James
Bell, private dragoon, to have saluted his officers and given
them all the path, if necessary ; but at that moment he
.could see nothing but the grey white-faced old man in the
cell at the gaol, in peril of his life and threatened with a
leon's death.

I must have been drunk,' he was muttering to himself.
•' Yes : I remember, I was horribly drunk that night, and
didn't know what I was doing. Poor old father ! with all
your faults you did not deserve this. Yes : I must have
been drunk.'

At this point he was brought from his musings to the present
by a stinging cut from a riding whip across the back, his
tight uniform being so little protection that the sharp whalebone
seemed to divide the flesh.

With a cry of rage he turned round, and flung out his fist,
-striking Sir Harry Payne, who had given the blow with the
whip, full on the nose, and sending him backwards.

You insolent dog !'

You scoundrel !'

The epithets were delivered in a breath by Major Eockley
and Sir Matthew Bray, just as Lord Carboro' approached,
walking by Lady Drelincourt's bath-chair.

It was an opportunity for showing how an insolent drunken

private should be treated ; and as several loungers of society-were
coming up, the two officers accompanied their words
^vith a couple of blows from their whips.

It is dangerous to play with edged tools, is proverbially
said ; and, in his then frame of mind, Fred Denville felt no
longer that he was James Bell, the disciplined, kept-down
servant and private. He felt as a man smarting from the
blows he had received. The service, the penalty for striking
an officer, were as nothing to him then ; he saw only the
big, pompous, insolent bully of his regiment, Sir Matthew
Bray, and the man who had insulted him a thousand times,
which he could have forgiven, and his sister again and again,
which he could not forgive.

With one bound he was upon Sir Matthew Bray, whom
he struck full in the chest, so that he staggered back, tripped
this heels on the front wheel of Lady Drelincourt's bath-chair,
and fell heavily into the road.

With another bound he was upon Rockley, who
had followed and struck him again a sharp, stinging
cut.

There was a momentary struggle, and then the whip was
twisted out of Rockley 's hand, his wrist half dislocated, and
for a couple of minutes the thin scourge hissed and whistled
through the air as, half mad with rage, Fred lashed the Major
across shoulders, back, and legs, and finally dashed him down
with a parting cut across the face.

That for you, you worshipped cur and scoundrel !
You disgrace the uniform you wear !'

There was a Httle crowd gathering, but only one man
dared to seize upon the fierce-looking dragoon, and that one
was Lord Carboro'.

Loose my arm,' roared Fred, turning upon him with uplifted
whip ; but, as he saw who held him, and that Bray
and Payne were holding aloof, and helping Cockle to rise,
he lowered his whip. ' Loose my arm, my lord ; you're an
old man, I can't strive with you.'

You rascal ! You have struck your superior
officers.'

Superior !' raged out Fred. ' I have worshipped a vile
roiiG for the blow he struck me, and ten times as much

for Keep off !' he roared, as Colonel Mellersh and Lin-nell

joined the group.

I shall hold you till a picket comes from the barracks, sir,
to take you in arrest,' cried Lord Carboro' sternly.

Fred Denville did not attempt to wrest his arm away, but
smiled half contemptuously at the padded, made-up old'
nobleman, and gave the whip a lash through the air as he
stared hard at Rockley, who was white with rage, but talked
to him who held his arm.

Look here, my lord,' he said, * is it amongst your set a
social sin for a man to horsewhip the blackguard who insults
his sister?'

No,' said Lord Carboro' stoutly ; * but you have struck
your superior officer.'

I have thrashed the scoundrel who would have dragged
my sister in the mire could he have had his way. It was my
last act as a free man, and thank God I have had the chance.'

'James Bell,' cried Sir Matthew Bray, 'I arrest sou.
Give up that whip.'

Touch me if you dare,' roared Fred. ' Stand back, or I'll
kill you.'

Private Bell '

D Private Bell !' cried the young man fiercely. *My

name is Frederick Denville, and I am a gentleman.'

Lord Carboro's hand dropped to his side, and as the
young man faced him for a moment, it was anything but
anger that flashed from the old nobleman's eyes as he muttered
to himself :

Damme, so he is ; and he has Claire's very look.'

Fred Denville strode right away along the Parade, followed
at a distance by Linnell and Mellersh, till, to their
surprise, they saw him enter their door, no attempt being
made to arrest him then.

VOL. III. 44

Surrender !'

No, Mr. Denville, I am a soldier, and yours is a terrible
crime against discipline, but I can't say a word in condemnation
of your act.'

Thank you, Colonel. Will you give me a few words herewith
Mr. Linnell ?'

Yes; but I should advise you to be quick,' said Mellersh.
Hang it, man, they'll shoot you for this. What's to be
done, Dick ? Look here, Denville, can't you knock one of
us down, take a suit of plain clothes and make off. There's
twenty pounds on the chimney-piece yonder.'

Thank you, sir, thank you,' said Fred, smiling sadly ;
but I'm not going to run. I shall give myself up.'

No, no,' cried Linnell excitedly. * For heaven's sake don't
do that, man. There's trouble enough in your home. You'll
break her heart.'

Fred Denville swung round in an instant, and caught
Linnell's hands in a strong grip.

Then you do love her,' he cried, his voice quivering. * My
little true-hearted, suffering darling. Oh, man, man, man,

don't let stretched shadows stand between you now. I
know everything, and how you have been ready to believe
all kinds of unhappy scandals about the best girl who ever
lived. Look here — no, don't go, Colonel ; you've heard the
beginning, you may as well hear the rest. It came out like
a flash. Stop now, and hear me, both of you. Ours is an
unhappy family ; I've been a wild, foolish scamp : my father
lies in prison under a false charge ; he is innocent. I know
that such a family is not one that a gentleman would seek
to enter, save under exceptional circumstances ; but I've
watched you, Eichard Linnell, and I know you loved my
sister, and I know that she never had a thought save for you.'

Linnell clenched his hands, compressed his lips, and began
to pace the room.

You, Colonel Mellersh, are a bit of a cynic ; you don't
believe in women, but you are mistaken here.'

What do you wish me to do ?' said Linnell hoarsely.

To do ? She is almost friendless, broken-hearted, and
has not a strong true hand to take hers, a loyal heart who
will stand by her against the world. Eichard Linnell, my
poor sister is suffering and in pain, and a great trouble is
coming upon her that will not balance the joyful news she
will soon hear.'

Then, why not make a dash for it, man, while you have
time?' cried Mellersh.

Because I shall give myself up to the civil authorities,
sir; that is all. Mr. Linnell, remember what I have said.
Good-bye.'

44—2

Too late !' cried Mellersh, as a tramping was heard, and
Sir Matthew Bray, a sergeant, and half a dozen dragoons
marched quickly up.

Fred Denville's whole manner had changed.

He dashed to the front. There was no escape there, and
the soldiers were already in the hall.

Rushing to the back window he threw it up, but it moved
stiffly, and before he had it well raised, the picket was in
the room.

Surrender !' cried the sergeant. * Halt, or I fire.'

For answer Fred Denville rose on the sill and leaped down
into the garden, a good dozen feet, and ran swiftly for the
wall at the bottom.

Halt !' roared Sir Matthew ; but the fugitive paid no heed,
and in response to rapid orders four carbines were raised,
there was a ringing little volley, and, to Linnell's horror,
Fred Denville made a bound, and fell upon his face.

Oh, this is too bad, sir !' roared Mellersh fiercely.

Mind your own affairs, sir,' said Sir Matthew sharply.
Saved him from being shot after a court-martial.'

In a few minutes the wounded man was borne in and laid
in the hall, where Cora Dean was one of the first to fetch
restoratives, while her mother brought a pillow and placed
beneath his head, for a couple of the dragoons had been
sent to fetch the means to transport him to the barracks.


It seemed at first that the one bullet which had struck
him had been aimed too truly ; but after a few minutes the

poor fellow opened his eyes, looked wildly round, and then
recognised Linnell.

Ah !' he ejaculated, * you ! Look here. I was on the
way — to give myself up — civil authorities — my father — in
prison — innocent — Lady Teigne — murder — in a fit of
drunkenness — I climbed up — to get the diamonds — save the
poor old man — 1 — I — did the deed.*

Morton Danville BECOMES A MAN.

'You here, Morton?'

Yes. Don't look at me like that, Clahe, pray don't.
You can't thmk what I've suffered.'

What you've suffered ?' said Claire coldly, as she recalled
how she had taken a mother's place to this boy for so many
years till he had obtained his advancement in life, when he had
turned from her. He had made some amends on the night
of Mrs. Pontardent's party ; but after that he had heard
some whispered scandal, and had kept aloof more and more
till the great trouble had fallen, and their father had been
arrested, when he had stayed away and made no sign.

It had seemed so hard. When a few words on paper
would have been so consolatory and have helped Claire in
her agony and distress, Morton had not even written ; and
now he came to her at last to tell her she did not know what
he had suffered.

'You don't know,' he continued, with the tears in this
eyes. * It was bad enough to be in the regiment with Payne
an Bray, always ready to chaff me and begin imitating the

old man, and that beast Rockley sneering at me ; but when
people began to talk as they did about you, Claire '

Silence !' cried Claire, flashing up as she rose from her
seat, and darted an indignant glance at the boy. * If you
have come only to insult your sister — go.'

Don't talk like that, Claire dear,' cried the boy. * Don't
be so hard upon a fellow. I suffered horribly, for they did talk
about you shamefully, and I was very nearly calling Sir
Harry out, only the Colonel wouldn't let me fight. I'm
sure I behaved well enough. Every one said I did.'

Why have you come this morning?' said Claire coldly.

Why have I come ? Hark at her !' said Morton piteously.
Oh, dear, I wish I were a boy again, instead of an officer
and a gentleman, and could go down and catch dabs with
Dick Higgles off the pier.'

Officer — gentleman ? Morton, is it the act of a gentleman
to side with the wretched people who made sport of
your sister's fame? To stand aloof when she is almost
alone and unfriended, and this dreadful calamity has befallen
us ? Oh, Morton, are you my brother to act like this ? Is
it your manliness of which you made a point ?'

Claire — sis — dear sis,' he cried, throwing himself on his
knees, and clasping her waist as he burst into a boyish fit of
passionate weeping. * Don't be so cruel to me. I have
fought so hard. I have struggled against the pride, and
shame, and misery of it all. You don't know what a
position mine has been, and I know now I ought to have
taken your part and my father's part against all the

world. But I've been a coward — a miserable, pitiful, weak
coward, and it's a punishment to me. You, even you, hate
me for it, and — and I wish I were dead.'

Claire's face softened as she looked down upon the lad in
his misery and abasement, and after a momentary struggle
to free herself from him she stood with her hands stretched
out over the head that was buried in the folds of her dress,
and a tender yearning look took the place of the hard angry
glance that she had directed at him.

I have fought, God knows how hard,' he went on between
his sobs, * but I'm only a boy after all, sis, and I hadn't the
strength and manliness to stand up against the fellows at
the mess. I've shut myself up because I've been ashamed
to be seen, and I've felt sometimes as if I could run right
away and go somewhere, so that I could be where I should
not be known.'

Claire's hands trembled as they were very near his head
now — as if they longed to clasp the lad's neck and hold him
to her breast.

I've been coming to you a hundred times, but my cursed
cowardice has kept me back, and everything has been against
me. There has been your trouble.'

Claire's hands shrank from him again.

Then it was bad enough about father without this horrible
charge.'

Claire's face grew hard and cold, and in a moment she
seemed ten years older.

Then there was poor Fred : Eockley's servant in my

regiment. You don't know what a position mine lias
been.'

Claire made no movement now. Her heart seemed to be
hardening against the lad, and she shrank from him a little,
but he clung to her tightly with his face hidden, and went
on in the same piteous, boyish wail.

I've been half mad sometimes about you and your
troubles '

Claire's hands began to rise again and tremble over his
head.

Sometimes about myself, and I've felt as if I was the
most unlucky fellow in the world.'

There was a pause here, broken by the lad's passionate
sobs.

There : you hear me,' he said. ' I'm only a boy blubbering
like this, but I feel pain as a man. I tell you, Claire, dear
sis, it has driven me nearly mad to know that this false
charge was hanging over my father, and that he was in
prison. The fellows at the mess have seemed to shrink
from me, all but the Colonel, but whenever he has said a
kind word to me I've known it was because the old man
was in prison, and it has been like a knife going into me. I
couldn't bear it. I hated myself, and I fought, I tell you,
to do what was right, but I couldn't. It was as if the devil
were dragging at me to draw me away, till this came, and
then I felt that I could be a man, and now,' he cried, raising
himself, and shaking his hair back, as he threw up his head
proudly, ' forgive me, sis, or no D my commission !

D the regiment ! D the whole world ! I'm going

down to the prison to stand by my poor old father, come
what may.'

My daring !'

Claire's arms were round his neck, and for the space of a
few minutes she sobbed hysterically, as she strained him to
her breast.

What, sis ? You forgive me ?' he cried, as her kisses
were rained upon his face.

'Forgive you, my own brave, true brother? Yes,' she
cried. ' Of course I know what you have suffered. I know
it all. It was a bitter struggle, dear, but you have conquered,
and I never felt so proud of you as I feel now.'

Sis !'

The tears that stole down from Claire's eyes seemed to
give her the relief her throbbing brain had yearned for all
these painful days, and her face lit up with a look of joy to
which it had been a stranger for months.

You will go to him then, dear ?' she whispered, with the
bright aspect fading out again, to give place to a cold, ashy
look of dread, as the horror of their position came back, and
the shadow of what seemed to Claire to be inevitable now
crossed her spirit.

Yes, I'm going. Poor old fellow ! It will be a horrible
shock to him about Fred.'
'About Fred?'

Yes. Had I better tell him ?'
Tell him ?' faltered Claire.

Yes. I thought not. He has enough to bear. I
thought,' said the lad bitterly, ' that I was doing a brave
thing when they brought him in. I said he was my poor
brother : but I found that they all knew. Claire! Sis!'

She had staggered from him, and would have fallen had
he not held on to her hand.

Speak — tell me !' she cried. * No, no ! I can't bear it !
Don't tell me there is some new trouble come.'

What ! Didn't you know ?'

She shook her head wildly, and wrung her hands and
tried to speak, while he held her and whispered softly :

Oh, sis — sis — dear sis !'

Something has happened to Fred,' she panted at last.
Tell me : I can bear it now. Anything. I am used ta
trouble, dear.'

My poor sis !' he whispered.

Why do you not tell me ?' she cried wildly. * Do you
not see how you are torturing me ? Speak — tell me. What
of Fred ?'

Her imperious, insistent manner seemed to force the lad
to speak, and he said, slowly and unwillingly :

He was going along the Parade, and ran up against
Eockley, and Payne, and Bray ; poor chap, he did not salute
them, I believe, and Eockley gave him a cut with his whip.'

Major Eockley !' cried Claire, with ashy lips.

Yes ; and he knocked over Bray and that puppy Payne.
Curse them ! they were like skittles to him. Fred's full of
pluck ; and, sis,' cried Morton excitedly, as his eyes flashed

with pleasure, ' he took hold of that black-grizzled, blackguard
Eockley, snatched his whip from him, and thrashed
him till he couldn't stand.'

Fred beat Major Eockley ?' cried Claire, with a horrified
look, as she reached the consequences forgotten for the
moment by the boy.

Yes ; thrashed the blackguard soundly ; but they followed
him with a sergeant and a file or two of men to take
him.'

Yes. Go on.'

They found him at Linnell's, talking to Eichard Linnell
and '

Morton stopped with white face, and repented that he
had said so much.

I must know all,' cried Claire, trembling. ' I am sure to
hear.'

I can't tell you,' he said hoarsely.

Is it not better that it should come from you than from
a stranger?'

It is too horrible, sis,' said the lad.
Tell me, Morton, at once.'

Her words were cold and strange, and she laid her hands
upon this shoulders, and gazed into his eyes.

The boy winced and hung his head as he said slowly :

They called upon him to surrender, but '

The lad raised his head, and tossing it back, his eyes
flashed as he cried in a different tone :

I can't help being proud of him — he was so full of thick,

sis. He Wouldn't surrender, but made a bold leap out of
the window, and made a run for it ; but that beast Bray
gave the order, and they shot him down.'

Shot him down !'

Yes ; but he's not dead, sis — only wounded ; but '

But what ? Why do you keep anything from me now ?'
cried Claire piteously.

It's court-martial, and — it's court-martial for striking
your officer, Claire, and he knows it ; and, poor fellow, in a
desperate fit, so as to get into the hands of the magistrates
instead of the officers, to be condemned to death, he — he —
Claii-e, I can't speak if you look at me in that wild way.'

Go on !' she said hoarsely.

He said — that it was not father — who killed Lady
Teigne — but it was he.'

Morton Bears THE NEWS Further.

Do all you can to comfort them, Mrs. Barclay, please,'
said Morton, as he left the house. ' It's all so shocking, I
don't know what to say or do.'

You've done quite right in coming here, my dear,' said
Mrs. Barclay, whose eyes were red with weeping.

I'm afraid I've done more harm than good,' said Morton
dolefully. ' Poor Claire, she's half crazy with what she has
to bear.'

You told her, then, about your brother Fred ?' said Mrs.
Barclay, in a whisper.
The lad nodded.

It was quite right ; she would have heard of it, and it
was better it should come from you, my dear. Are you —
are you going to see your poor father in prison ?'

Yes,' said Morton firmly. ' I've got an order to see him,
and I'm going at once.'

He turned round sharply, for he had received a hearty
clap on the shoulder, and found that Barclay had approached

him unperceived ; and he now took the young
fellow's hand and shook it warmly.

Good lad !' he exclaimed. * That's brave. Go and see
him ; and if you like you may tell him that Mr. Linnell and
I have got the best lawyer in London to defend him.'

You have, Mr. Barclay ?'

Yes ; we have. There, don't stare at me like that.
Your father once did me a good turn ; and do you suppose
a money-lender has no bowels ? You tell him — no, don't
tell him. He is in a queer, obstinate way just now, and
you've got your work cutout to tell him about your brother's
trouble. That's enough for one day, but you may give him
a. bit of comfort about your sisters. You can tell him that
my stupid, obstinate old wife has got 'em in hand, and that
as long as there's a roof over Mrs. Barclay's head, and anything
to eat. Miss Denville will share them. No, no ; don't
shake hands with me. I've nothing to do with it. It's all
her doing.'

Morton could not speak, but gripped the money-lender's
hand tightly before turning to Mrs. Barclay. He held out
his hand and took hers, his lips trembling as he gazed in
the plump, motherly face. Then, with something like a sob
of a very unmanly nature, he threw his arms round her and
kissed her twice.

God bless you I' he cried ; and he turned and ran out of
the room.

Barclay's face puckered up as his wife sank down in a chair
sobbing, with her handkerchief to her eyes, and rocking

herself to and fro, but only to start up in alarm as Barclay
dashed to the fireplace, and caught up the poker, before
running towards the door.

Jo-si-ah !' she cried, catching his arm.

Just got away in time, a scoundrel — and before my very
face ! You suffered it, too, madam.'

Oh — oh — oh — oh !' sobbed Mrs. Barclay hysterically, as
she took the poker away, and replaced it in the fender
before throwing herself on her husband's breast. ' My own
dear old man ! I won't ever say a word again about money.
The best and dearest fellow that ever lived !'

Barclay drew her close to him and played the elderly
lover very pleasantly and well, leading his plump wife to a
sofa, and sitting down by her with her head resting upon his
shoulder.

Hush, old lady, don't cry so,' he whispered. 'What's
the good of having money if you don't try and do some good
with it ? I like little Claire ; she's about as near an angel as
Wei find them in Saltinville ; and as for poor old Denville, he
has been the most unlucky of men. He's not a bad fellow
at heart, and as for that affair about old Lady Teigne — well,
there's no knowing what a man may do when tempted by
poverty and with a lot of jewels twinkling before his eyes.'

Oh, hush, Jo-si-ah, you don't think — you can't think

Hush, old girl ! we must not think it of him aloud. We
must get him off, but I'm very much afraid.'

Oh, Jo-si-ah, don't say it, dear.'

Only to you, my gal. I'm afraid the poor old fellow was
trying to — well, say borrow a few diamonds, and what
happened afterwards was an accident.'

Oh, my dear ! my dear !'

It looks sadly like it.'

But this Fred Denville says he did it.'

Yes, poor lad, to get clear of his officers, and to save his
father's life. That will go for nothing. Soldiers often
charge themselves with crimes to get out of the army.
That story will never be believed.'

Morton Den\dlle shivered as he approached the prison,
and felt half disposed to turn back as he encountered a
couple of men of his regiment ; but he mastered his nervousness
and walked boldly up to the gate and was admitted.

He found his father in much the same despondent
attitude as he had occupied when Fred Denville came to the
prison, and Morton stood with his lip quivering and breast
heaving, looking down for some minutes at the wasted form.

Father,' he said at last, but there was no reply, and
when the lad went and laid a hand upon his shoulder, the
old man did not start, but raised his head in a dazed manner,
as if he did not quite realize who it was.

Then, recognizing him, he rose from his stool, smiling sadly.

You, Morton !' he said. ' You have come !'

Morton did not answer for a few moments, struggling ashe
was with intense emotion, and the Master of the Ceremonies
looked at him keenly now. His face changed

VOL. III. 45

directly, though, as Morton threw his arms round him and
stood with his head bowed down upon the old man's shoulder.

I'm glad : very glad. Egad, Morton, my son,' said
Denville, trying to assume his old parade manner, but with
his piping voice quavering, and sounding forced and strained,
you make me feel very proud of you. It is, of course —
yes, egad — of course — a very painful thing for a gentleman
an officer — to have to visit — a relative in prison — a man
situated as I am — to a man in 'your position, it is a terrible
thing — and — and you'll pardon me — my son — I could not
have felt — er — surprised if you had — stayed away; but —
but — you have come ; and — God bless you, my boy — my boy.'

The old man would have sunk upon his seat quivering
with emotion, but Morton held him in his clasp.

No, no, father,' he said with spirit, * you must not give
way. We must meet this trouble like men. You must
advise with me. I've been playing the boy too long. There,
sit down and let's talk. What shall I do about your trial ?'

Denville took his son's hand, and looked at him proudly,
but he shook his head.

What do you mean, father ?' cried Morton, the lad
flushing and looking manly as he spoke. ' This is no time
for indecision. I have seen Mr. Barclay and Mr. Linnell.
They have engaged counsel, and what we want now is your
help over your defence.'

Denville smiled sadly, and again shook his head,

No, my boy, no,' he said, * you can do nothing. It is
very brave and true of you.'

But, father's,

my son ! Let me speak and act as my knowledge
and experience dictate. I am glad you have come, for you
have been much in my mind ; and I want to get you as free
as I can from this horrible disgrace.'

My dear old father, don't think of me,' pleaded Morton,
'but of yourself.'

Of myself, my boy ? Nos I am only an old worn-out
stock, and I am quite resigned to my fate — to my duty. I
am old ; you are young. There is your future to think of,
and your sister's. Look here '

But, my dear father,' cried Morton, ' I must insist. I
am only a mere boy, I know, but I am forced to take
command.'

Not yet, Morton ; I have not resigned. You'll pardon
me, my son — wounded, but not unfit to command — as yet.
Morton, my boy. Lord Carboro' has always been my friend.
Go to him, my son, and ask him to use his influence to get
you an exchange into some other regiment. Try foreign
service, my boy, for a few years. It will be taking you
clear of the stain upon our name. Claire has friends, I
have no fear for her — good, true woman. It is about you I am
concerned. You must exchange and get right away from
here. Go at once. Carboro' will see the necessity, and
advise and help you.'

And leave you here in prison — in peril of your life ;
charged with a crime you did not commit ? Father, you
don't know me yet.'

45—2

The old man's lip quivered, and he grasped his son's
hand firmly.

It is my wish, my boy. For your sake and for your
sister's,' he said firmly. * You must go at once.*

And leave you here — like this, father ?'

Yes, my boy — it is my fate,' said the old man sadly. ' I
can bear it. You must go.'

And leave Fred in his trouble ?'

Silence ! Don't name him. Don't let me hear this name
again,' said the old man, firing up.

But it vas only a flash of the old fire which died out at
once, and he grew pale and weak again, his head sinking
upon this breast.

Father !' cried Morton, * I can't bear this. You are too
bitter against poor Fred, and it seems doubly hard now.'

Hush ! Say no more, my boy. You do not know,*
cried the old man angrily. * You do not know.'

It is you who do not know, father. You have not heard
that he has been shot down.'

Fred — my son — shot ?'

Yes, while attempting to escape from arrest, father. He
is dangerously wounded. Forgive me for telling you at
such a time, but you seem so hard upon him.'

Hard, my boy ? You do not know.'

I know he is dangerously wounded, and that he is your
son.'

My God !' muttered Denville, with his lip quivering — * a
judgment — a judgment upon him for his crime.'

And that in his misery and pain he raised his voice
bravely to try and save you, father, by charging himself
with the murder of Lady Teigne.'

What ?' cried the old man excitedly. ' Fred — my son —
charged, himself with this crime ?'

Yes ; he boldly avowed himself as the murderer.'

Where — where is he ?' cried Denville excitedly.

In the infirmary ; weak with his wound. Father, you
will forgive the past, and try to be friends with him when —
when you meet again.'

The Master of the Ceremonies looked up sadly in his son's
face and bowed this head slowly.

Yes,' he said sadly; *I will try — when we meet again.
But tell me, my boy,' he cried agitatedly ; * they do not
believe what he says — this — this charge against himself ?'

No ; they look upon it as what it is — a brave piece of
self-denial to save his father from this terrible position. Oh,
father ! you did not think he could be so staunch and
true.'

They don't believe it,' muttered Denville. ' No ; they
would not. It does not alter the situation in the least. I
shall suffer, and he will be set free.'

You shall not suffer, father,' cried Morton impetuously.
Surely there is justice to be had in England. No, I will
not have you give way in this weak, imbecile manner.
There : no more now ; I must go, and I shall consult with
your friends.'

No ; I forbid it,' cried the old man sternly. ' You will

not be disobedient to me now that I am helpless, Morton,
my son. You cannot see it all as I see it.'

No, father; I hope I see it more clearly.'

Rash boy ! you are blind, while it is my eyes that are
opened. Morton, one of us must die for this crime. I tell
you I could not live, knowing that I did so at the expense
of your brother who had gone, young in years and unrepentant,
to his account.'

Unrepentant, father?'

Hush, hush, my boy ! No more. I can bear no more.'

Time, sir,' said the voice of the gaoler, and Morton went
sadly back to join his sisters.

UNDER Pressure.

Father, I am nearly mad with grief and horror. I come
to you for help — for comfort. What shall I do?' cried Claire,
sinking upon her knees before him on her next visit to the
prison.

What comfort can I give you, child ?'

Oh, father, dear father, were not our sufferings enough
that this other trouble should come upon us ? Fred '

Yes, tell me of him,' cried the old man excitedly. ' Is
he very bad ?'

Dangerously wounded, father. And this story of his !
They believe it, father ; what shall I do ?'
Do, my child ?'

They will take him and punish him for the crime. I fear
they will, for he persists that it was he.'

And you would save him and let me die,' said the old
man bitterly.

No, no. Don't, pray don't, speak like that, father.
Think of what I must feel. I'd lay down my life to save

you both, but it seems so horrible that my brother should
die for that of which he is innocent.'

The old man wrested himself from her grasp, and paced
the cell like some caged wild creature, seeking to be free.

I cannot bear it,' he exclaimed. ' Heaven help me fora
wretched weak man. Why has this complication come
to tempt me ? Claire, I would have died — without a murmur,
without a word, but this dangling before me the means of
escape is too much. Yesterday, I did not fear death. Today,
I am a coward. I see before me the hideous beam,
the noosed rope, the executioner, and the hooting crowd,
hungry to see me strangled to death, and I fear it, I tell you,
for the hope of life has begun to burn strongly again now
that Fred has spoken as he has.'

Father !'

Yes ; you shrink from me, but you do not know. Claire,
I speak to you as I could speak to none else, for you have
known so much from the beginning. You know how I have
suffered.'

Yes, yes,' she said mournfully.

You know how I have shrunk and writhed in spirit to
see you loathe me as you have, and look upon me as something
unutterably base and vile. Have I not suffered a
very martyrdom ?'

Yes, father, yes,' sighed Claire.

And heaven knows I would not have spoken. I would
have gone boldly to the scaffold, and died, a sacrifice for
another's crime. But now that he has confessed — now that

he denounces himself, and I see life before me once again,
the desire to hive comes so strongly to this poor weak creature
that my lips seem to be unsealed, and I must — I must have
yom' love, Claire, as of old.'

'Father!' cried Claire with a horrified look, as if she
doubted his reason.

Yes, you are startled ; you wonder at me, but, Claire,
my child, had I gone to the gallows it would have been asa
martyr, as a father dying for his son's crime. Claire, my
child, I am an innocent man.'

Father !'

Yes,' he cried, 'innocent. You never had cause to shrink
from me ; and while a thousand times you wrung my heart,
I said to myself, " You must bear it. You cannot retain her
love and win your safety by accusing your son." '

Father, you rave,' cried Claire. ' This hope of escape
has made you grasp at poor Fred's weak self-accusation.
You would save yourself at the expense of the life of your
own child.'

Did I accuse him of the murder, Claire ?'

No, not till now ; and oh, father, it is monstrous.'

Did he not accuse himself, stung by conscience after
seeing me here ?'

It is not true. He could not have done such a
thing.'

Indeed !' said Denville bitterly ; ' and yet I saw him
leave the bedside, and stand with the jewel casket in his
hand. I say so to you, for I cannot bear it, child. Let

them kill me if they will. Let them save my son ; but let
me, my child, let me go to my grave with the knowledge
that you believe me true and innocent, and that I bore all
that my son might live.'

Then you will not denounce him ?'

I ? To save myself ! No, though I would live. You do
not believe me innocent, my child. You think me a murderer.'


Father, I believe you were beside yourself with your
troubles, and that you were going to take those jewels when
you were interrupted, and, in a fit of madness, did this deed
to save yourself and children from disgrace.'

Claire, Claire,' groaned the old man, ' if you — if you only
could have believed in me, I could have borne all, but you
turn from me. Will you not believe in me ? Have you not
realized my self-sacrifice ?'

Oh, father, what can I say — what can I do ?' cried
Claire. * Do you not see my position? Can I think of
my poor brother now as the guilty man ?'

No,' he said, taking her in his arms, and trying to soothe
her in her agonized grief ; * it is too much to ask you, my
child. It is too much for such a one as you to be called
upon to even think of. I will not press you, Claire ; neither
will I ask you to forgive me. I could not do that now.
Only try to think of me as innocent. I ask you once more,
my darling ; I ask you once more.'

Claire threw her arms round his neck and drew his head
down to her bosom.

I am your child,' she whispered softly. ' Father dear,
good-bye — good-bye . '

So soon?' muttered Denville. *Yes; good-bye — goodbye.'


He held her hand till she was half through the door ; and
then, as it was closed, he tottered back to his seat, and once
more sank down to bury his face within his hands.

FROM Person TO PRISON.

Morton,' said Claire hoarsely, as she returned to where
her brother was waiting, * are you still strong at heart ?'
Strong? Yes,' he cried. ' What do you want me to do?'

Take me to Fred.'

The young officer started, but he drew a long breath and
rose erect.

Come along,' he said. ' Colonel Lascelles will give mean
order to see him. But, Claire darling, can you bear to
meet him now ?'

My own brother ? Morton, could I stay away from you
if sickness or a wound had laid you low ?'

Come,' he said abruptly ; and, taking her arm, he led
her along the parade on their way towards the barracks.

Before they had gone far Morton's cheeks flushed, for he
saw Lord Carboro' approaching, and he felt ready to turnout
of the way.

He will cut us dead,' thought Morton. ' We are disgraced
for ever.'

To his surprise, as they drew near, Lord Carboro' took off

his hat, and held it in his hand, bowing low to Claire as sh
passed him.

Fifty yards further they encountered Eichard Linnell and
Mellersh, who, without having seen Lord Carboro's act,
imitated it exactly, and drew aside to let them pass.

Morton felt his heart throb with pleasure. He had expected
those who knew them to treat them slightingly, and
his sister was being treated with the deference due to a
queen, while he was receiving respect such as had never been
paid to him before.

He held this head the higher, and gaining in confidence
walked boldly on, proud of the closely-veiled figure at his
side, as Claire drooped over his arm ; but, as he drew nearer
to the barracks, he felt a curious tremor attacking him, and
it needed all his strength of mind to keep up and face his
brethren of the mess.

Claire shrank more and more as they entered the gates
and crossed the barrack-yard, but Morton had screwed himself
up to the sticking point, and he would have died sooner
than have turned tail now.

Dragoon after dragoon saluted him, and he caught sight
of Sir Harry Payne, but that officer had the grace to turn off,
and they reached the Colonel's quarters without an unpleasant
encounter.

They were shown in at once, and without taking chairs
Morton stood defiant and proud awaiting the entrance of the
Colonel, and supporting his sister.

They were not kept waiting long before the Colonel entered,

Morton meeting his eyes with a fiercely independent
look.

He was armed against an charmed man, for the old
Colonel's first act was to place a chair for Claire, bowing to
her with chivalrous deference, while directly after, in place
of treating his subaltern with freezing distance, he held out
his hand and shook Morton's warmly.

The young officer had truly said that he was only a boy,
for this kindly act and the old Colonel's sympathetic look
threw him off his balance, and his lip began to quiver and
his face to change.

You've come to ask for a pass to see your brother, Den-ville,'
said Colonel Lascelles. * Yes, of course, of course.
Very sad — very painful business, my dear lad. No fault of
yours, of course. Don't scruple to ask me for any assistance
I can give you, my dear boy. As far as my duty will
allow me, you can count upon me. There : that's it,' he said,
blotting a sheet of paper, and handing it promptly to the
young officer, while he chivalrously refrained from even
glancing at the sorrow-burdened figure at his side.

By-the-way, Denville,' he whispered, calling the young
fellow aside, * you can take what leave you like now.'

The flush came back to Morton's face, and he was drawing
himself up, but the Colonel took one hand, while he laid his
left upon the lad's shoulder.

No, no, no : I don't mean that, my dear boy. You have
behaved uncommonly well, and I never respected you half
so much as I do now. No gentleman in the regiment, I am

sure, will think otherwise than I do. Yours is a very painful
position, Denville, and, believe me, you have my sympathy
from my heart.'

Morton grasped his hand firmly, and then hurried away,
for he could not trust himself to speak.

Another encounter had to be gone through, though, and
that was with a tall, dark officer who came upon them
suddenly.

Morton flushed up again as he felt Claire start, and saw
Cockle stop suddenly, as if about to speak eagerly to the
shrinking girl ; but he found Morton's eyes fixed upon him,
and returning the look with an angry scowl he passed
on.

A minute later and they were in the infirmary, where,
looking white and pinched of aspect, Fred Denville lay, with
a regimental nurse at his side.

The man rose, and left the side of the bed, for Claire to
take his seat.

He is to be kept very quiet, ma'am. Doctor's orders,'
said the man respectfully. * I shall be just outside if you
want anything.'

Fred was lying with his eyes half closed, but he heard the
voice and opened them, recognised his visitors, and tried to
raise his hand, but it fell back upon the coverlet.

Claire ?' he said in a voice little above a whisper. * An
officer?'

He smiled sadly, and then seemed half choked by a sob,
as Claire threw herself on her knees by him and Morton went

to the other side, bent over, and laid his hand upon that
lying helpless upon the coverlet.

Fred, old fellow,' said Morton in a husky voice.

He could say no more, but stood looking down upon the
prostrate figure, awe-stricken at the ravages caused by the
wound.

Fred — dearest Fred,' whispered Claire, kissing the hand
she held.

The wounded man groaned.

'No, no,' he said faintly. ' You should not be here ; I am
no fit company for you now.'

Oh, Fred, dear Fred,' cried Claire passionately, ' how
could you charge yourself with that dreadful crime ?'

How ?' he said faintly. ' Because it must have been
true. The poor old man saw me there, and found my knife
upon the carpet.'

It is impossible,' sobbed Claire.

I thought so once,' replied the wounded man, ' but I suppose
it's true. I often used to think of the old woman's
jewels, and how useful they'd be. It seemed so easy, too,
the way up there — eh, Morton ?'

Yes, yes ; but don't talk like that. Some scoundrel
must have seen me climb up, and have gone there that
night.'

Yes,' said Fred feebly, ' some scoundrel who knew the
way, but who, in his drunkenness, did not know what he did,
and that scoundrel was L'

No, no, Fred !' cried Claire.

If you did it,' said Morton quickly, ' what became of the
diamonds ?'

The diamonds, lad ?'

Yes. Did you have the jewels and sell them ?'

Never a stone,' said Fred slowly. ' No, it's all like a
cloud. It always is like a cloud over my mind when I've
been having the cursed drink. It sends me mad.'

Claire gazed at him wildly.

You ought not to be here, Claire. Take her away, lad.
I'm no fit company for her. But tell me — the old man?
They have set him free?'

No, not yet,' said Morton sadly.

But he must be set free at once. Poor, weak old fellow !
He has suffered enough. Morton, lad, go to him and try to
set him out. Him kill the old woman ? He hadn't it in him.'

Fred Denville turned so faint that he seemed to be losing
his senses, but Claire bathed his face, and he recovered and
smiled up at her.

It's hard work to tell you to go, Claire dear, but you
mustn't stay here. Say one kind word to me, though, my
dear ; I haven't had much to do with kindness since I left
home. I'm sorry I disgraced you all so. Ask the old man
to forgive me, and tell him I should like to shake hands with
him once, just once, before it's all over.'

Fred, my dear brother,' whispered Claire, pressing his
hand to her breast, while Morton held the other.

Ah !' sighed the wounded man, ' that's better. Morton,
lad, it weill soon be over, and people forget these things in a

VOL. III. 46

few days. I'm only in the way. I always have been.
You'll get on better when I'm gone.'
'Hush, Fred!'

He turned his head to Claire, who was gazing at him with
burning eyes that seemed drained of the last tears.

You always were a good, true girl to me, Claire,' he
whispered faintly, * and I want you to think well of me when
I'm gone. I did this horrid thing, but I swear I have no
recollection of it, and I never reaped a shilling advantage
from the theft.'

The same feeling animated father and son in this time of
peril — the desire to stand well in the eyes of Claire, who
seemed to them as the whole world.

Think the best you can of me, my little girl,' he whispered.
' It will soon be over, and — there's one comfort — I
shall die as a soldier should — do you hear, Morton ? No
hangman's rope to disgrace us more. I fell under fire, my
lad, and I shall laugh at the judges, and prison, and scaffold
and all.'

Hush ! for heaven's sake, Fred !' cried Morton.

Yes, I will. It's too much — to talk. I was in a rage
with them for shooting me. It was that bully — Bray ; but
I forgive him, for it saves us all from trouble and disgrace.
Morton, lad, don't stop in the regiment. Exchange — do
you hear? Exchange, and get them away — Claire and
May and the old man — to somewhere else when I'm dead.'

Fred ! Brother !' wailed Claire.

He smiled at her, and tried to raise her hand to his cheek.

Yes, little girl !' he said tenderly. * It's quite right.
Cuts the knot — the hangman's knot.'

There was a bitter, decisive tone in these last words, but
he changed his manner again directly, and spoke gently and
tenderly.

It is no use to hide it, dear sis,' he said. * I can't live
above a day or two. I know I shall not, and you see it is
for the best. It saves the old man, andinuch of the disgrace
to you two. Poor old fellow ! I never understood
him, Claire, as I should. Under all that sham and fashionable
show he tried hard for us. God bless him ! he's a hero.'

Fred, Fred, you are breaking my heart,' wailed Claire.

No, no, little one,' said Fred, a nervous accession of
strength enabling him to speak out clearly and firmly now.
You must be strong and brave. You will see afterwards
that it was all for the best, and that I am of some good to
you all at last. Try and be strong and look at it all as a
blessing. Can you bring the old man here ? Morton, lad,
with my last breath I'll pray that you may grow up as true
and brave a fellow. Just think of it, you two — that night.
He saw me in the room and escape, and he held his tongue
to save me ! Do you remember that day, Claire, when he
found me with you and attacked me as he did ? I couldn't
understand it, then. Ah ! it's all plain enough, now. No
wonder he hated me.'

Fred, you must not talk,' said Morton.

Not talk, lad?' said Fred with a sad smile. ' I've not
much more chance. Let me say a few words now.'

46—2

He lay silent though for a few moments, and his eyes closed
as if glad of the rest ; but at the end of a short space he
began again in a half wandering manner.

'Brave old fellow! Not a word. Even when they took
him. Wouldn't betray me because I was his own son. Tell
Claire to tell him — some one tell him — I know why. It was
because I was poor mother's favourite — poor mother ! How
fond she was of me ! The scapegrace. They always love
the black sheep. Claire — fetch Claire.'

He uttered this wildly, and she bent over him, trembling.

I am here, dear Fred.'

He stared at her without recognition for a few minutes,
and then smiled at her lovingly.

Only a bad headache, mother,' he said. ' Better soon.
Don't look at me like that. I didn't mean to kill the old
woman. I can't remember doing it. What a time it is
since I've seen you. But look here, mother. Mind Claire.
That scoundrel Eockley ! I know him. Stand at nothing.
Mind poor Claire, and '

A spasm seemed to shoot through him, and he uttered a
faint cry of agony as he knit his brow.

Did you speak, dear ?' he said huskily. * Have I been
asleep ?'

I — I think so,' faltered Claire.

Yes, I fell asleep. I was dreaming of the poor mother.
Claire dear, it would have killed her to see me here like
this. There, there, it's all for the best. I want to sleep.
Tell the old man he must come and forgive me before I go.

Bring him, Morton, lad. No : you bring him, Claire. It
will be pain to you, my child, but it is to help me. He will
forgive me — brave, noble old fellow that he is — if you are
standing by.'

The door opened, and the military nurse appeared.

The doctor says that you must not stay longer now,
ma'am,' he whispered.

Quite right,' said Fred softly, and with the manner of
one accustomed to yield to discipline. ' Come again tomorrow
— bring the old man to me — good-bye, dear, goodbye.'


He hardly turned his head to Morton, but feebly pressed
the hand that held his. His eyes were fixed with a wild
yearning on the sweet, tender face that bent over him, and
then closed as he uttered a sigh of content with the long
loving embrace that ensued.

Then, utterly prostrate, Morton led his sister from the
room used as an infirmary, and across the barrack yard to
the gates where a carriage was in waiting.

Morton Den\dlle was half stunned by the scene he had
just witnessed, and moved as if mechanically, for he, young
as he was, had read the truth in his brother's face and felt
that even if it were possible to obtain leave, he would not
probably be able to get his father to the barracks in time.

It seemed quite a matter of course that a footman should
be holding the door of this carriage open, and that the
servant should draw back for them to enter, close it, and
then mount behind, to shout over the roof * Mr. Barclay's,'

when the carriage was driven off. Morton Denville said
little, and did not realize the chivalrous kindness of Lord
Carboro', in sending his carriage to fetch Claire back after
her painful visit.

Claire saw absolutely nothing, half blind with weeping,
her veil down over her face, and a blacker veil of despair
closing her in on every side, as she fought and struggled
with the thoughts that troubled her. She was utterly incapable
of grasping what went on around her.

Now her father seemed to stand before her innocent, and
her erring brother, the true culprit, having, as he had told
her, committed the crime in a drunken fit. Now a change
came over her, and she shuddered with horror as it seemed
to her that the author of her being had made his crime
hideously worse in trying to escape its consequences by
charging his eldest born with the dreadful sin.

Her brain was in a whirl, and she could not think, only
pray for oblivion — for rest — since her mental agony was too
great to bear.

One minute she had been gazing on the pallid face of the
brother whom she had loved so well ; the next, darkness
had fallen, and she barely realized the fact that she was
handed into a carriage and driven off. All she felt was that
there was a place against which she could lay her throbbing
head, and that Morton was trying to whisper words of comfort
in her ear.

Their departure was seen, though, by several.

Rockley, with a singularly uneasy look upon his dark,

handsome face — dread, rage, and despairing love, shown
there by turns — watched the brother and sister leave the
barracks, cross the yard, and enter Lord Carboro's carriage,
and then uttered a furious oath as he saw them driven off.

Lord Carboro' himself, too, was near at hand to see that
his commands were executed without a hitch, and the old
man went off thoughtfully dowai to the pier, to sit and watch
the sea, snuff-box in one hand, clouded cane in the other.

Poor old Demdlle !' he muttered softly ; and then, below
his breath, * Poor girl !'

Lastly, Eichard Linnell and Mellersh saw Claire enter
the old nobleman's handsome chariot, and a curious grey
look came over the younger man's countenance like a
shadow, as he stood watching the departure, motionless till
the carriage had disappeared, when Mellersh took him by
the arm

Come, Dick,' he whispered, ' be a man.'
Linnell turned upon him fiercely.

I do try,' he cried, * but at every turn there is something
to tempt me with fresh doubts.'

nature's temptation.

Claire Denville sat back in her chair utterly exhausted,
and feeling as if her brain was giving way. The news from
the prison was as hopeless as ever. Fred lay lingering at the
barrack infirmary ; and though May was better she was
querulous, and in that terribly weak state when life seems
to be a burden and thought a weariness and care.

She was asleep now, and Claire had just risen softly so as
not to awaken her, and make her resume her complaints
and questions as to how soon her father would come back
and forgive her, and when her husband would return and
take her home, for she was weary of lying there.

Unreasoning in her weakness, she had that afternoon
been bitterly reproaching Claire for not fetching her child,
that she might nurse and play with it — at a time when she
could hardly hold up her arm — and when she had been
firmly but kindly refused she had burst into a torrent of
feeble, querulous reproaches, which had been maddening to
Claire in her excited, overstrained state.

The door opened, and Mrs. Barclay's beaming countenance

appeared, and she stood there beckoning with her fat
finger.

Let's stand outside and talk,' she whispered. ' That's
right : close the door. Now then, my dear, I'll go in and
sit with your sister there, for you're getting overdone ; and
I tell you what, it's a fine soft evening, you put on your
bonnet and shawl and go and have a walk. I don't like
your going alone, but just take one sharp walk as far as the
pier and back, two or three times. It'll do you good.'

Have you any news, Mrs. Barclay?' said Claire, ignoring
the wish expressed.

Not yet, my dear, but everybody's working for you.
Now, do go.'

Claire hesitated, and then in obedience to the reiterated
wish she mechanically did as she was bid, and went out
into the cool soft night, the beating of the waves sounding
loudly on the shore, while as they broke a glow as of fire
ran along their crests, flashing and sparkling with soft
radiance along the shore.

But Claire saw nothing, heard nothing — neither the figure
that came quickly after her as she left the house, nor the
sound of steps.

For all was one weary confused trouble in her brain, and
everything seemed forced and unnatural, as if it were the
mingling of some dream.

Mrs. Barclay had bidden her walk as far as the pier, and
in all obedience she had done as she was told, reaching the
pier entrance; and then, attracted she knew not how or

why by the darkness and silence, she turned on to the
wooden edifice, and began to walk swiftly along the planked
floor.

It was very dark that night, only at the end there was a
single light that shone brightly, and in her confused state
this seemed to be the star of hope leading her on.

She had not had the slightest intention of going there,
but in a rapt dreamy way she walked on and on, the vacant
place seeming strange. The last time she had stood on
the pier it had been thronged with well-dressed promenaders,
but that was months — it seemed years — ago, while endless
horrors had taken place since then.

How calm . and still it all was where she walked, while
below among the piles the sea softly ebbed and flowed and
throbbed, seeming full of whisperings and voices that were
hushed lest she should hear the words they said.

She walked on and still on, and it occurred to her once
that it was along here that beautiful Cora Dean's ponies
had dashed, taking her over the end into the sea, from
which Eichard Linnell, so brave and honest, had saved her.
She had often heard how the crowd cheered him — Eichard
Linnell. Cora loved him and was jealous of her, and yet
she had no cause to be, for the events of the terrible
night — the night of the ghastly serenade — killed that forever.


Why did she think of all this now ? She could not tell.
It came. She felt that she was not answerable for her
thoughts — hardly for herself, as she turned and looked back

at the faint lights twinkling upon the Parade. It seemed as
if she were saying good-bye to the town, where, in spite of
the early struggles with poverty, there had been so much
happiness, as in her young love dream she had felt that
Richard Linnell cared for her.

Yes ; it was like saying good-bye to it with all its weary
troubles and bitter cares.

She walked on and on, right to the end, but the light did
not shed its beams upon her now It was no longer a star
of hope. It sent its light far out to sea, but she was below
it in the shade, and hope was forgotten as she leaned over
the rail at the end, listening to the mysterious whisperings
of the water in amongst the piles, and looking down into the
transparent darkness all lit up with tiny lambent points
which were ever going and coming. Now and then there
would be a pale bluish-golden flash of light, and then quite
a ribbon of dots and flashes, as some fish sped through the
sea, but it only died out, leaving the soft transparency lit up
with the faint dots and specks that were ever moving.

To her right, though, there was a cable, curving down
into the sea, and rising far out, after nearly touching the
sands, to ascend to the deck of a large smack aground on
the bank. That rope was one mass of lambent light, a huge
chain of paled gold that glowed all round ; and as Claire
Denville gazed there was a rift in the clouds overhead, and
from far above the rays from a cluster of stars were reflected
like a patch of diamonds in the sea, and she turned shudderingly
away to gaze down once more at the transparent darkness,

where the moving specks seemed to have a peculiar
fascination.

How the softly flowing and ebbing waves whispered below
there amid the piles and down under the platform where
her brother used to fish ! How soothing and restful it all
was to her aching head ! The troubles that had been
maddening her seemed to float away, and everything was
calm and cool. As she stood thinking there a dreamy
sensation came over her, such as comes to those who have
awakened after the crisis of a fever. Hers had been a fever
of the brain, a mental fever ; and now all seemed so calm
and still that she heaved a sigh, half sob, and the troubles
died away in the past.

The transparent water into which she gazed, with its
flashes of luminous splendour, seemed to grow more and
more mysterious and strange. It was so like oblivion that
it began to tempt her to trust herself to it and rest : for she
was so weary ! Trouble after trouble — the long series of
cares — had been so terrible a strain that she felt that she
could bear no more, and that the sea offered her forgetfulness
and rest.

She did not know why she came there : it was not against
her will — it was not with her will. Her mind seemed to be
stunned, and it was as if her wearied body had drawn her
there.

She leaned over the rail, with the cool, soft, refreshing air
bathing her burning forehead, and watched one brilliant
point of light — soft and lambent — that was near the surface,

and then moved slowly down lower and lower into the dark
depths that seemed beyond fathoming ; and, as she watched
it, the fancy came upon her that these points of light might
be lives like hers, wearied out and now resting and gliding
here and there in the soft transparent darkness at her feet.

Father — brother — sister — Eichard Linnell — her past cares
all appeared distant and strange, and she had no more
control over herself than has one in a dream. There was
that weariness of spirit — of a spirit that had been whipped
and spurred until jaded beyond endurance — that weariness
that asked for rest — rest at whatever cost ; and whispered
that rest could only come in the great sleep — the last.

It did not seem like death, to step from the end of the
pier into the dark water. There was nothing horrible
therein. On the contrary, it wooed and beckoned her
to its breast, offering utter oblivion when, in her more
lucid moments, she felt she must go mad.

As if guided by instinct more than her own weill, she
turned at last from the rail and took a few steps in the
darkness towards the side where the damp salt-soaked
flight of steps led to the platform below — the rough landing-stage
beneath where she had been standing.

Here, as she stood close to the edge with the black piles
looming up around, she fancied they where the whisperers as
the water heaved and plashed, and rippled and fell. There
was no rail here between her and the rest that seemed to
ask her to sink down into its arms, now that she was so
weary, and unconsciously she was standing where her

brother had stood and listened many months ago at the
footsteps overhead, as he enjoyed his stolen pleasure in the
middle of the night.

But there was no heavy step now — no voice to break the
curious spell that was upon her, drawing her away from
life, and bidding her sleep.

She was not afraid ; she was not excited. Everything
seemed to her dull and dreamy and restful, as she stood on
the very verge of the open platform, with the water now
only a few inches from her feet, leaning more and more over,
till the slightest further movement would have overbalanced
her, and she would have fallen in, to sink without a cry.

She hardly started as a firm hand gripped her arm, and
she was drawn sharply back, to be held tightly by him who
had followed her below, watching her every action and
standing close behind her in the darkness with outstretched
hands.

Miss Denville — Claire — for heaven's sake, what does
this mean?'

She did not struggle, but turned round slowly, and looked
in the dimly seen face.

Eichard Linnell !' she said, as if wondering at his
presence.

Yes, Eichard Linnell,' he cried, panting with emotion.
Claire, my love, has it come to this ?'

She did not shrink from him as he drew her closely to his-side,
and his arm clasped her waist, but gazed up at him in
the same half wondering way.

Why are you here ?' he said hoarsely. * Surely you
Averse not thinking — oh, it is impossible.'

Still she did not answer, but in a slow, dull way extricated
herself from his grasp, and pressed her hands over her face,
covering her eyes for a few moments till she felt his touch ashe
laid his hand upon her arm.

Claire,' he whispered, ' you do not speak to me. Why
do you not say something to drive away these horrible
thoughts. You here — at this hour — alone ? Is it my fate to
be always misunderstanding you ?'

She shuddered slightly, as if his words where reviving
memories of other meetings, and now she spoke.

I don't know why I am here,' she said in a dazed, helpless
way. ' I have had so much trouble. I was tired !'

'Trouble!' he whispered. 'Claire dearest, if you only
knew how I loved you. Let me share the trouble — help you
through everything.'

Hush ! Don't speak to me like that, Eichard Linnell,'
she said slowly, as if she had to think deeply before she
uttered a word. * I cannot talk to you now. My
head !'

She paused and gazed at him helplessly, laying her hand
upon her brow.

You ought not to have been alone,' he said, earnestly.
But tell me — you where not thinking of that '

He pointed with a shudder to the sea that whispered and
hissed below where they stood.

I don't know,' she sighed, still in the same dazed way.

I came, and it seemed to draw me towards it. I am so
weary — so tired out.'

He caught her in his arms, and held her head down upon
his shoulder, as he whispered in a voice deep with emotion
:

Weary, my poor girl, weary indeed. Now rest there,
and, heaven helping me, half your trouble shall pass away.
For I love you, Claire, love you with all my heart, and I too
have suffered more than I can tell.'

She made no resistance to his embrace, but sighed deeply,
as if he was giving her the support she needed in her time
of weakness ; but his heart sank within him as he felt how
helpless and dazed she was. She yielded to him, but it was
not the yielding of one who loved, neither was there a
suggestion of caress in her words. He knew that she was
half distraught with the suffering that had fallen to her lot ;
and holding her more tightly for a moment, he pressed his
lips once reverently on her forehead, and then drew her
arm through his.

I will take you back,' he said.

She looked up at him, and a pang shot through his breast
as he realized how weak she had become.

Yes,' she said at last, * you will take me back.'

And, Claire, are the clouds between us to pass away forever
now?' he whispered, as he held her hand.

'Clouds?' she said, as she seemed to comprehend him
now. ' No : they can never pass away. Mr. Linnell, I am
ill. I hardly know what I say.'

Then trust me,' he said. ' I will take you back.'

Yes — if you will,' she said vacantly. ' I have been so ill.
I hardly know — why I am here.'

But you understand me, Claire ?' he said softly.

Yes : I think I understand you.'

Then remember this,' he said. ' You have shrunk from
me, and there has been a terrible estrangement through all
your troubles ; but, mark this, Claire Denville, I love you.
Let me say those simple words again, and let their simplicity
and truth bear them home to your heart. I love you, as I
always have loved and always shall. You will turn to me,
dearest, now.'

It is impossible,' she said gravely, and she seemed moment
by moment to be growing clearer.

But I love you,' he pleaded.

And they ask for my love and help,' she said, with a
sudden flash back into the full power of her intellect. ' My
poor suffering father — my sister — my wounded brother.
Can you not see that there is a social gulf between us too ?'

No,' he said, drawing her to him, and once more kissing
her brow. * I only see the sweet, true woman who has been
a martyr — I only see my love.'

She did not speak for a few moments : and then the
vacant manner returned somewhat, as she said to him,
laying her hand upon his arm :

I seemed drawn here. I could not help it. That would
be too horrible. Take me back.'

He drew her arm once more through his, and led her

VOL. III. 47

up the steps and back to the Barclayss' house, where he
paused upon the steps.

Always yours, Claire. I am going to work again in your
service. I am yours, and yours alone.'
- She shook her head sadly as the door was opened by Mrs.
Barclay, who shrank back with a smile to let both enter ;
but Claire glided in, and Eichard Linnell remained.

I am glad,' whispered Mrs. Barclay. * Why don't you
come in ?'

Hush !' he whispered. * Poor girl ! she is half mad
with her misery. Mrs. Barclay, you must not let her go
out of your sight. Good-night. Good-night.'

He walked rapidly away, and Mrs. Barclay followed Claire
into the dining-room, where the poor girl was kneeling by a
chair and weeping bitterly for the lost love that she felt
could never be hers ; but as she wept the tears seemed to
give rest and lightness to her over-taxed brain, and at last
she sank fast asleep like a weary child, her head upon her
old friend's lap, and her breathing coming more regularly
and deep than at any time since the night of the murder.

A REVELATION.

Don't, pray don't talk to me, Mrs. Barclay,' said Claire
piteously. ' Let me lie back here and think and rest for a few
minutes, and then I must go up to Mays

No, no, no, my dear ; you let poor May alone a bit.
She's getting on right enough, and you want more attention
than she does. And don't think, my dear. Have patience.
Things may turn out all right.'

No,' said Claire, with a sigh. ' There is no hope now.'

Oh, yes, there is !' said Mrs. Barclay decisively. ' Jo-si-ah
says a reprieve may come at any moment, for Lord Carboro
is trying might and main, and Mr. Richard Linnell — ah, does
that touch you ?'

No, no, hush !' cried Claire, in agony. * Don't mention
his name.'

I shall,' cried Mrs. Barclay. ' I shall say what I think
will do you good, my dear. Mr. Richard Linnell has been
working night and day, just as he did at the trial. Now he
has been getting a petition signed by everyone in Saltinville,
.and that's going to win, I think.'

47—2

Claire caught her arm and looked at her with dilating
eyes.

Yes, I think that's going to do some good, and we've got
to trust in Providence, my dear, and wait.'

Yes, yes. I do pray fervently for help.'

And you've got to rouse yourself up, my dear, and da
something to keep from thinking.'

I can't — I can't, dear Mrs. Barclay.'

Oh, yes, you can, my dear. Not for yourself ; I want you
to help me.'

Help you ?'

Yes, my dear ; help me.'

I'll try,' said Claire sadly.

That's my pet ; I knew you would.'

She embraced Claire tenderly, and then smoothed her hair,.
as if proud of her.

What shall I do ?' she said to herself. * Booking ? No :
pools always please w^omenfolk. I like 'em myself.'

What am I to do ?' said Claire. * I will try, Mrs. Barclay.
I must have been a great trouble to you.'

A great fiddlestick,' cried the plump dame. * What nonsense
! Now I'm going to just dust over and put down all
the pools we have in the iron chest. Mr. Barclay's securities,
and some that he has bought. He always likes me to look
over them now and then, and mark off any that have been
sold or let out, and so on. You'll help me, won't you ?'

Willingly,' said Claire sadly.

'That's a dear. Look there on the other side of the way.

It's Mr. Linnell again. He's looking up. Go to the window,
and return his bow, my dear.'

No, no, I could not,' cried Claire excitedly.
Well, then, my dear, I must,' said Mrs. Barclay, suiting
the action to the word, and not only bowing, but kissing her
plump hands to Linnell again and again. * There he goes,'
she exclaimed. * Poor young man ! I don't know whose
fault it is, but some one's wrong ; and I don't like to see
two who ought to be helmets keeping at a distance for
nothing.'

Claire's brow contracted, but she said no word, while,
after diving into a pocket somewhere beneath her voluminous
skirts, Mrs. Barclay brought out a bunch of bright keys, with
one of which she opened a great cabinet in a dark corner of
the bric-a-brac-filled room.

Here's where we keep the pools, my dear,' she said, as
she took another key and fitted it in a large iron safe within
the cabinet. ' My Jo-si-ah says that no housebreakers could
open that iron chest if they tried for a week. Now, you
help me. Hold your apron and I'll fill it. Then we'll lay
the cases on the table and look at them, and compare them
with the books, and then put 'em away again.'

Clah'e smiled sadly as the eager little woman plunged her
plump arm into the safe and brought out, one after the other,
the quaint, old-fashioned morocco cases of every shape and
size ; and these were duly laid upon the table, on whose cloth
a space had been cleared.

Along with these was a canvas bag of the kind used in a

bank for sovereigns, and a couple of chamois leather bags of
similar size and shape.

That's about all,' said Mrs. Barclay, bustling about with
her eyes beaming and her cheeks showing what an artist
would term high lights. ' Now we'll have a good look at
'em, my dear; all grand people of title's family jewels that
they've had to sell or pledge through gambling at the tables.
Ah, a very nasty sort of trade, my dear, buying and lending
on them ; but, as Jo-si-ah says, some people will be fools,
and if he didn't make money from them other folks
would.'

She placed a chair for Claire, and another for herself; and
then, opening a drawer, she took out a ruddy piece of wash-leather,
and what seemed to be an ivory tooth-brush that
had grown out of knowledge, and a nail-brush in a state of
consumption.

I always give 'em a brush up, my dear, before I put 'em
away. Jo-si-ah likes to see 'em kept in good order. He
says they look so much more valuable when they're brought
out.'

She opened one faded red case by pressing on the snap,
and laid bare a diamond necklet in old-fashioned silver
setting, the gems sparkling in the light as they were moved ;
for they were evidently of considerable value.

There,' she cried ; * those once belonged to a duchess,
my dear, but they're ours now. Jo-si-ah said I might wear
'em if I liked ; but they're too fine for me. They'd look
lovely on your soft white neck. Let me try 'em.'

'No, no — pray !' cried Claire in alarm, as she shrank away
with such a look of wild horror in her eyes that Mrs. Barclay
laid the jewels down.

Why, my pretty !' she said tenderly, what a fuss to make
about nothing.'

Yes, yes, it was, I know,' said Claire, with aforcedlaugh.
It was very foolish of me; but — don't — do that again.*

*No; if you don't wish it, my dear, of course,' said
Mrs. Barclay; and she looked across wonderingly at her
companion, for she could not comprehend how the sight of
those diamonds and the attempt to place them on her neck
had recalled the back drawing-room at the house on the
Parade, with the hideous old woman sitting up in bed with
her jewels about her on the coverlet and on her arms and
neck. The sight of diamonds had become hateful to Claire,
and she was ready to leave the table, but the thought of
seeming strange to Mrs. Barclay restrained her.

Poor old girl ! she had to wear paste, as lots of them do
when they sell their jewels, my dear. Ah, they're a beggarly
set ; when once they take to gambling they don't seem to be
fine ladies any longer. Back you go in the box.'

Mrs. Barclay had given the diamond necklet a brush and
a rub while she was speaking; and then, taking up and
opening a book, she handed it to Claire, bidding her look out
for the Duchess of Digne's diamonds, and make a pencil
tick against them.

This done and the morocco case replaced in the safe,

another was taken up and opened, displaying a ruby and
gold bracelet.

There, I'll put that on my wrist,' said Mrs. Barclay, suiting
the action to the word. I won't ask you to have it on,
my dear. Some girls would want to, and wouldn't like 'em
taken off again. But you're different to most people. Look
at that now. Jewels always seem best against skin and
flesh, but there, my gracious, how fat I am getting ! Why
it won't snap round my wrist ! Think of that.'

She laughed as merrily as a girl as she held up the
glittering gems, and then started, with a loud ' Lor' bless
me !'

For just then there was a tremendous double knock at the
door ; and, jumping up with wonderful activity for one of
her size, she trotted across to the window.

Why, it's Cora Dean, my dear. No, no : don't go,' she
continued, as Claire rose hastily.

I do not feel as if I could meet her, Mrs. Barclay,' Claire
pleaded.

But she's nobody, my dear, and she'll be so hurt if
you go, for I'm sure to let out that you were here just
now.'

Miss Dean, ma'am,' said the servant, opening the door;
and Claire's indecision was cut short by Cora going straight
to her, taking her hand and kissing her, before bestowing
the same salute upon Mrs. Barclay.

I am glad to see you, my dear,' said the latter volubly,
for she was nervously afraid that Claire would go, and of

the opinion that the best way to set both at their ease was
to talk.

I ought to have been here before,' said Cora, * but my
mother has been ill. Don't think me unkind, Claire Denville.'

She bent over and took Claire's hand, and met her eyes
with a cmious wistful look that was full of affection ; but,
as in some clear gem, such as lay beside them on the table,
there was a hidden fire that kept darting forth, and that
fire was the vainly-smothered bitter jealousy that was the
torment of her life.

It was very kind of you to come,' said Claire quietly ;
and there was a coldness in her manner that seemed to
make Cora's jealousy glow more fiercely, for the fire flashed
up, and the wistful affectionate look seemed to be burning
fast away.

It was only a matter of moments, though, for a change
came over Claire. It was as if something within her
whispered :

Why should I be bitter and envious, and hate her for
winning a happiness that could never be mine.'

With a quick movement and a low hysterical cry, she
threw her arms round Cora's neck and hid her face in her
bosom, sobbing bitterly at first ; and then, as Cora held her
tightly in her embrace, and soothed and caressed her, the
sobs grew less violent, the tears fell more slowly, and at last
she raised her face and gazed in her friend's eyes, offering
her hips with a simple child-like motion for the kiss in which
they were joined

Oh — oh — oh — oh ! Don't you take any notice of me,
my dears,' bm^st forth Mrs. Barclay. ' It's only my foolishness,
but I couldn't keep it back. There, there,' she cried
in a choking voice, * I'm better now — I'm getting better now.
I couldn't help it though. There !'

She dabbed her eyes with her scented handkerchief, and
beaming on both in turns, she gave first one and then the
other a hug full of affection.

It does me good, my dears, to see you both real friends
at last ; and now let's be sensible and chat together till I've
finished these pools, and then we'll have a nice strong cup
of tea.'

Neither Claire nor Cora spoke, but sat with full hearts,
and with a feeling of relief stealing over them as their hostess
prattled on, opening case after case, and drawing the book
to herself so as not to trouble Claire.

Look at those, my dears ; real choice pearls. Ain't they
lovely?' she said as she took out a ring from its tiny box.
They're small, but they're as good as good. Pearls always
go best on dark people. Now just you try that on, Cora
Dean, my dear. No ; that finger's a little too large, and
that's too small. That's it to a T ; just a fit.'

It is beautiful,' said Cora, admiring the pearls. * Look,
Claire.'

Yes, said Claire, smiling ; ' they are very beautiful.'


Not as sou want pools on you, my dear,' said Mrs. Barclay,
' with a face, and rich red mouth, and throat, and hair,

like you have. You want no pools to make you handsome
as handsome can be.'

Oh, yes, I do, Mrs. Barclay ; and I did not know that
you had taken to flattery,' cried Cora, laughing.

'Ain't flattery, my dear, it's truth,' said Mrs. Barclay;
and I can't say which is the handsomer — 3'ou or Claire
Dem-ille there — for you're both right in your own ways.
You neither of you want pools.'

I do, Mrs. Barclay, and I mean to have this ring if it is
for sale. How much is it ? It's lovely.'

It is for sale, my dear,' cried Mrs. Barclay ; ' and you
shall have it and pay for it.'

And the price ?'

The price is that you're to be a good true friend to Claire
Demille there, as long as you live, and ' — a hearty smack on
Cora's Juno-like red hips — ' there's the receipt, my dear.'

But, Mrs. Barclay '

Not another word, my dear,' cried the plump lady.
There's the little case, and — there 1' she continued, taking
up a pen and writing, as she muttered, ' Half-hoop oriental
pearl ring : Countess of Minster. S — o — 1 — d. There.'

She looked up, smiling with satisfaction, and busily opened
another case.

But, really, Mrs. Barclay,' began Cora, * such an expensive
ring.'

Why, bless your heart, my dear, you don't think I look
upon such a thing as that as expensive. Why, I've only to
say to my Jo-si-ah I want a set of diamonds, and if they

were worth a couple of thousand pounds he'd give 'em tome
directly. There, I won't hear no more. These are nice,
ain't they, my dears ? Emeralds — real.'
She held up a glittering green suite.

Look at the flaws in them. Shows how good they are.
Look at these sapphires and diamonds mixed, too. They're
worth a good thousand, they are.'

She spread out the beautiful stones, and Cora's eyes
glistened with pleasure as case after case was opened, for it
was a feast for her that she thoroughly enjoyed, while Claire
sat looking on listless and sad till the task was nearly done.

I wouldn't spend so much time over them, my dears,'
said Mrs. Barclay, ' only I think you like seeing 'em. There,
now, there's only these three lots to open.'

She took a wash-leather bag and opened it, to pour out
some rough-looking crystals into her hand, as if it had been
grain at a corn-market.

Enough diamonds, dear,' she said to Cora; and, pouring
them back, she retied the bag, and took the other and served
it the same. ' Seed pearls, those are, and worth more than
you'd think.'

This bag was also retied and placed in the safe, nothing
being left but the canvas packet.

Ah !' said Mrs. Barclay, ' I always mean to get a case
made for this lot, every time I see them. They're not much
good, but it would set them off.'

As she spoke she untied the bag, turned it over, and, taking
hold of the bottom, shook out on the table a necklet, cross,

tiara, and pair of bracelets, which tinkled as they fell on the
table.

You'll spoil them,' said Cora, taking up the tiara admiringly.


Spoil them? Not I, my dear. You couldn't spoil them.'

But they are very beautiful,' said Cora, taking up the
cross by the little ring at the top. * Look, Claire dear.
Why, I '

Claire turned her eyes upon them slowly, and then her
countenance changed, and she uttered a cry:
Lady Teigne's diamonds !'

THE SELLER OF THE GEMS.

Lady Teigne's diamonds !' exclaimed Claire.

Nonsense, my dear !' said Mrs. Barclay. * They're not.
Now don't you get letting your poor head run upon them.
Whoever did that dreadful deed took them up to London,
and sold 'em, or sent 'em to Amsterdam.'

But they are,' cried Claire, growing more excited. ' I
am sure of it. I know them so well.'

As she spoke she seized the jewels, and turned them over
and over with feverish haste, her face convulsed with horror.

Nonsense, nonsense, my dear child,' said Mrs. Barclay.

It is very curious,' said Cora, looking at the ornaments
eagerly. ' I seem to have seen them before.'

Some like 'em, my dear. Lots of 'em are made and
sold.'

Mrs. Barclay, I know those are Lady Teigne's diamonds,'
cried Claire again.

And I know they are not, my dear child. I'll tell you
why : they're not diamonds at all, only some fairish imitations
— paste — that my Jo-si-ah bought.'

No, no,' persisted Claire ; * they are valuable diamonds.'

Well, my dear, I'm not a clever woman at all ; but I've
hand so much to do with precious stones that I can't help
telling 'em directly. There's nothing valuable about them
but the silver setting, and if you melt that down there isn't
ten pounds' worth in the lot.'

Mrs. Barclay '

Ah, I'm right, my dear. Those aren't diamonds, but
paste ; and I remember Josiah saying when I laughed at
him, and asked him if he had been taken in — I remember
him saying that they were a good-looking lot, and he should
keep 'em to let on hire to some lively lady who wanted a
suite, and whom he didn't care to trust with diamonds.
There, now, are you satisfied ?'

No,' cried Claire. * I am certain that I am right. That
cross ! I know it so well. I've had it in my hands a hundred
times. Those bracelets, too. I have often clasped
them on Lady Teigne's wrists.'

And put that ornament in her hair, and the other thing
round her neck ?' said Mrs. Barclay, smiling.

'Yes, often; so often,' cried Claire. * Oh, tell me what
this means. Of whom did you buy them?'

Well, that I can't say, my dear ; but I'm going to show
you that you are wrong,' said Mrs. Barclay, laughing and
showing her white teeth. ' Now look here,' she continued,
as she took up the necklet, and then, crossing to the safe,
she picked out an old morocco case, which she laid upon
the table. ' Open that, my dear,' she continued, turning to

Cora. ' There's a necklet in there very much Hke
this.'

Cora pressed the snap spring, and, in obedience to a nod
from Mrs. Barclay, took out a brilliant necklet and laid it
upon the table.

There, my dears,' cried the plump little woman ; * those
are diamonds ! Look at them. Those are brilliant. Look
at the fire in them ; and now lay these beside them. Where's
the fire and bright colours ? They'd light up and look shiny
by candle-light ; but, though they'd deceive some folks,
they wouldn't cheat me. My Jo-si-ah has shown me the
difference too often. There, then, take my word for it, and
let's put them away.'

No, no,' cried Claire wildly. ' I feel as if I have found
out something that might clear up a mystery. I dread to
inquire further, but I feel as if I must. Mrs. Barclay — dear
Mrs. Barclay — it seems shocking to contradict you so flatly ;
but you are wrong — I am sure you are wrong. Those are
indeed Lady Teigne's diamonds.'

Now, bless us and save us, my dear, dear child, look
here,' cried Mrs. Barclay, taking up the two reckless, one
in each hand, and breathing upon them. ' I know these
things by heart, my dear. My Jo-si-ah has taught me ; and
a fine lot of trouble he had, for I'm a stupid old woman.
Now look there.'

She breathed on a couple of the largest stones again, and
held them out in the light.

Now see how the breath goes off them, my dears. Seethe

difference ? Those are brilliant. These that yon say
are Lady Teigne's diamonds are only paste — paste or glass,
as the Italians call it. They make lots of 'em very cleverly,
and they're shiny and bright, but they are not precious
stones. Now then, are you satisfied ? Shall I put 'em all
away, and ring for tea ?'

No,' said Claire, trembling ; * I am not satisfied ; and
though I feel as if I were going to find out something horrible,
I must — I must go on.'

Well — well — well, then, my dear, so you shall go on.
I'll do anything to humour you, and try and make you a
bit happier. Now, then, what's to be done ? Let me warn
you, though, that I'm right, and those are not diamonds at
all, only bits of glass, with some tinfoil behind to make 'em
shine.'

Claire eagerly examined the jewels again one by one.

Yes — see — both of you,' she cried excitedly ; ' there is
the tiny slip of card I put under that snap, because the
spring had grown so weak ; and there should be a little
scratch and a chip in one of the big diamonds in the tiara.
No — no — I can't see it,' she said hurriedly.

A scratch and a chip on a diamond !' said Mrs. Barclay,
smiling. ' Oh, my dear, my dear !'

Yes. There are the marks,' cried Claire excitedly.
Look, both of you, look !'

Well, so they are, my dear,' acquiesced Mrs. Barclay.
Well, that is strange ! But that don't make 'em diamonds,
you know. It only proves what I said — that they are paste.'

VOL. III. 48

They were Lady Teigne's jewels,' cried Claire ; ' and I
always believed them to be diamonds.'

Well,' cried Mrs. Barclay, ' and some one killed that poor
old creature for the sake of getting a few bits of paste.
Ugh!'

She threw down the necklet she held with a look of disgust.
' If I'd ha' known I wouldn't ha' touched 'em. My
Jo-si-ah couldn't ha' known, or he wouldn't ha' bought 'em.
This must be cleared up.'

She went toward the bell, but Claire followed and caught
her arm.

What are }'0u going to do ?' she said, with an ashy face.

Being and ask my Jo-si-ah to come up and talk this over.
AVe don't deal in stolen goods.'

No; don't, don't.'

But we must find' out where he bought the things.'

No, no ! I couldn't bear to know,' faltered Claire.
No, Mrs. Barclay, pray don't ask.'

Oh, my poor daring ! Catch her, Cora, my dear,' cried
Mrs. Barclay, as Claire staggered back, half fainting, and
was helped to the sofa, and fanned and recovered with
smelling-salts.

She was just getting rid of the deadly hue when the door
opened, and Barclay came in with a bluff ' How do, ladies ?
Why, hallo ! what's the matter ?'

Hush ! she's coming round,' said Mrs. Barclay.

That's better. Why, what are you doing with these
things ?'

I had them out, dear, to check off and brush a little.
Claire was helping me.'

Mr. Barclay,' said Claire, rising, and taking a step or
two to the table, and speaking with a forced decision that
startled her hearers, * I must speak. I must know. Tell
me -'

She faltered, and pressed her hands to her brow, shivering
and turning ghastly pale again.

Oh, my dear!' cried Mrs. Barclay; 'she's going to
faint!'

No, no,' said Claire, in a weak voice. * Don't touch me.
I must speak — I must know. Mr. Barclay,' she cried,
picking up the jewels, ' where did you get these diamonds?'

These, my dear ?' said the money-lender, taking them
from her. * Not diamonds at all — paste.'

There !' cried Mrs. Barclay triumphantly.

But where — where did you get them ? Pray, pray
speak. It is agony, this suspense.'

'Get them, my dear? Don't take it like that. Why,
what's the matter?'

She says ' began Mrs. Barclay.

They are Lady Teigne's jewels,' cried Claire. * Tell me,
how came you by them ?'

Bought 'em, my dear, of Fisherman Dick — Miggles, you
know ; him as your brother Morton went fishing with.'

Yes,' cried Cora. ' I remember now, he brought them
to us. He said he dredged them up in his shrimp net off
the end of the pier.'

48—2

That's what he told me too, I remember,' said Barclay.

And he thought they were mine,' said Cora. ' He brought
them with the carriage clock and my bag, but, of course,
they were not mine.'

Fisherman Dick — her brother — dredged up off the end of
the pier ! It was no elucidation of the mystery, Claire felt,
as she stood there trembling.

Lady Teigne's jewels ?' said Barclay, turning them over,
and speaking in his blunt way. ' Then whoever killed the
poor old woman found out that these things were good for
nothing, and threw them into the sea.'

Oh, my dear, my dear !' sighed Mrs. Barclay. * Don't,
pray don't faint.'

Poor Claire did not hear her, for as she realized that here
was perhaps a fresh link of evidence against her father, a
link whose fitting she did not see, her brain reeled and she
would have fallen had not Cora been close at hand.

Can I do anything ?' said Barclay in his abrupt way.

Yes,' cried Mrs. Barclay sharply. * Go. Can't you see
we must cut her laces ?'

Humph !' ejaculated Barclay thoughtfully ; * Lady
Teigne's jewels ! I never thought of that. No wonder. It
was diamonds missing — not paste thrown off the pier.'

He shook his head as he reached the door, and stood with
the handle in his hand.

Fisherman Dick, eh ? Well, I'll go and see what he has
to say.'

THE TOUGH WITNESS.

Shall I go alone ?' said Josiah Barclay, as he stood upon
his doorstep. ' No, it's wise to keep your own counsel
sometimes, but at others it's just as well to have witnesses.
Who shall I take ? Richard Linnell,' he said, after a pause.

He's the fellow. I'm afraid, though, it looks worse for the
old man than it did before. Dick Miggles is as honest as
the day as long as he is not smuggling ; and he would no
more think of choking an old woman than flying. I
shouldn't like to be the revenue officer opposite to him in a
row if Master Dick had a pistol in his hand ; but he would
consider that to be a matter of business. Yes : it looks
worse for the old man after all.'

Barclay walked sharply down to the Parade, and went
up to the house where Mrs. Dean was seated at one of the
windows, bemoaning the absence of Cora, and murmuring
at her sufferings, as she leaned back flushed, and with her
throbbing head in her hand.

For she was very ill, and very ill-tempered, consequent
upon her complaint — a weakness and succumbing of her fort,

after a long and combined attack made by veal cutlets, new
bread, and port wine.

She saw Barclay come up, and declared that he should
wait for his rent this time if she died for it.

To her great disappointment, as she felt just in the
humour, as she termed it, ' for a row,' Barclay stopped below
in Mellersh's room, where Richard Linnell was seated with
the Colonel.

Business with me, Mr. Barclay ?' said Linnell, flushing.
Yes, I'll come out with you. No, I have no secrets from
Colonel Mellersh.'

Barclay looked sharply at the Colonel, and the latter
glanced at his nails and smiled.

Dick,' he said, leaning back in his chair, ' Mr. Barclay is
asking himself whether Gamaliel is a scoundrel, and Paul is
a young fool to trust him.'

No, I wasn't, Colonel,' said Barclay warmly. * You're
a little too much for me, sir, and though you shy the New
Testament at me like that (and I never read it), perhaps,
money-lender as I am, I'm as honest a man, and as true a
friend as you.'

No doubt about it, my dear Barclay,' said Mellersh with
a sneer.

I wasn't thinking about Gamaliel, or Paul either, sir ;
but, since you will have it I was asking myself whether you
a clever card-player '

Say sharper, Barclay.'

By gad, I will, sir,' cried Barclay, banging his fist upon

the table — ' a clever sharper — were making believe to be this
young gentleman's friend for yom' own ends.'

Mr. Barclay !' cried Eichard indignantly.

Let him be, Dick ; I'm not offended. Barclay's only
plain-spoken. The same thing, Barclay, my dear fellow,
only I put it more classically. Here, I'll leave the room,
Dick.'

Xo ; stop,' said Eichard quickly. ' Mr. Barclay, I have
told you that Colonel Mellersh is my best friend. Please
say what you have to say.'

Barclay looked ruffled and bristly, but he mastered his
anger, and said sharply :

I want you to go down with me, Mr. Linnell, as far as
Fisherman Dick's.'

Eichard Linnell stared and looked grave, as he dreaded
some fresh trouble and complication.

What for ?' he said sharply.

Because I believe you take an interest in Miss Claire
Dem-ille,' said Barclay; * and there's something fresh about
that murder affair.'

He went on and told what had occurred at his house.

Plain enough,' said Mellersh. ' The man who did the
murder found out that the jewels where false, and he took
them and threw them into the sea.'

Yes,' said Barclay drily, ' I found all that out myself.
Colonel. Hang it, gentlemen, don't let's fence and be petty,'
he continued. ' Colonel Mellersh, I beg your pardon, sir,
and I ask your help, both of you. What's to be done ? I

bought those sham diamonds of Fisherman Dick, who fomid
them, I suppose, when he was shrinking, and took them to
Miss Dean — brought them here, you know.'

Mellersh and Eichard Linnell glanced sharply at each
other.

Thought, you see, that she lost them at the time of the
accident. Well, suppose I tell this, it may make the matter
worse for poor old Denville. What would you do ?'

See Fisherman Dick. Perhaps your surmise about the
shrinking is wrong. The smuggling rascal may know something
more.'

Will you come along the cliff with me, then?'
Eichard Linnell jumped up, and Mellersh remained — ashe

was going to dine at the mess. A quarter of an hour
later they were at the fisherman's cottage, where Mrs.
Miggles raised her eyes sharply from the potatoes she was
peeling, while Dick was engaged in teaching their little
foster-child to walk between his knees.

Morning, Dick,' said Barclay, as the great fellow gave
them a comprehensive nod, and looked from one to the
other suspiciously, Mrs. Miggles gouging out the eyes of a
large potato with a vicious action, while her heart beat
fast from the effect of best French brandy.

Not from potations, for the sturdy, smuggling fisherman's
wife revelled in nothing stronger than tea ; but there were
four kegs in the great cupboard, covered with old nets, and
a stranger coming to the cottage always seemed to bear a
placard on his breast labelled ' gaol,' and made her sigh and

wish that smuggling were not such a profitable occupation.


We want a few words with you, Higgles,' said Barclay
sharply.

Eight, sir. Fewer the better,' said the fisherman surlily,
for the visit looked ominous.

You brought some ornaments to me one day, and I
bought them of you. You remember — months ago ?'

To be sure I do. You said they was pastry.'
'Paste, man, paste.'

Fisherman Dick had a thought flash into his head, and he
gave his knee such a tremendous slap that the child began
to cry.

Here, missus, lay holt o' the little un,' he cried, passing
it to her, as she gave her hands a rub on her apron — almost
pitching it as if it had been a little brandy keg. ' Here, I
know, gentlemen,' he continued, ' them pools has turned
out to be real, and you only give ten shillings.'

All they were worth, man. No ; they've turned out to
be what I told you — sham.'

Oh !' said Fisherman Dick in a tone of disappointment.
Hear that, missus ? Only sham.'

But we want to hear how you found them.'
How I found' 'em? Well, you've got 'em ; that's enough
for you, ain't it?' he grumbled.

No. You must speak out — to us mind — and let us know
in confidence — all about it.'

I don't know nothing about 'em at all. I forgets.'

No, yon don't. Yon dredged them np, yon said, when
yon were shrinking and searching for Miss Dean's bag-after
the accident.'

How do yon know ?' growled the fisherman fiercely.

Yon told Miss Dean so when yon took them to her.'

And how do yon know that ?'

You told her so when yon took them to her, and she told
me,' said Barclay.

Then she told yon wrong,' said Fisherman Dick sulkily.
It wasn't then.'

Look here, my man,' said Barclay. * Yon may not know
it, but very likely you will find yourself in an awkward
position if you do not speak out.'

Shall I ?' growled the man defiantly.

Yes ; a very awkward position. Yon know that Mr.
Denville is lying under sentence of death for the murder of
Lady Teigne, and stealing her jewels?'

Oh, yes ; I know all about that,' growled the fisherman.


Well, then, what will yon say if I tell you that those
ornaments you sold me have been identified as Lady Teigne's
jewels?'

Fisherman Dick's jaw dropped, and curious patches and
blotches of white appeared in his sun-browned face.

Oh, Dick ! Dick !' cried his wife, ' why don't you tell the
truth? No, don't : it may get you into trouble.'

I ain't going to speak,' growled Dick. * 'Ain't likely.'

Hush, Barclay,' whispered Linnell, taking off his hat as

Claire Denville came up hurriedly, leaning on her brother's
arm.

She caught Barclay's hand quickly, and said in a hurried
whisper :

You are inquiring about that, Mr. Barclay ? Have you
found out anything ?'

No ; the fellow will not speak,' said Barclay pettishly.

Then stop — pray stop !' said Claire. ' Don't ask — don't
ask him any more.'

My dear Claire, this is madness,' cried Morton excitedly.
We must know the truth.'

No, no,' said Claire faintly. ' It is better not.'

I say it is better out. You foolish girl, it is our last
chance for him.'

Morton,' whispered Claire ; ' suppose '

Better the truth than the doubt,' cried Morton. * You
Dick Miggles '

Stop !' cried Richard Linnell. * Mr. Denville, your sister's
wishes should be respected.'

Claire darted a grateful glance at him, and then her face
contracted, and she turned from him with a weary sigh.

Mr. Linnell,' cried Morton, ' I wish to spare my sister's
feelings ; but it is my duty as my father's son to prove him
innocent if I can, and I'll have the truth out of this man.'

All right, Mr. Mort'n,' said Dick. ' Don't be hard on a
fellow. You and me used to be good mates over many a
fishing trip, when you used to come down o' nights out o'
the balcony.'

Morton turned a horrified look upon Fisherman Dick, as
the idea flashed across his brain, that the man who knew so
well how he came down, must have known the way up. It
was but a passing fancy, for there was that in the rough
fisherman's countenance that seemed to disarm suspicion.

Well, what's the matter now, Master Mort'n?'

I want you to speak out, Dick.'

Morton — brother !' whispered Claire appealingly.

Be silent, Claire,' he replied angrily. * Now, Dick, speak
out. You, Mrs. Miggles, you are telling him to be silent. I
will not have it. Now, Dick, how did you get those jewels ?'

Striped 'em. Off the pier.'
And how came they there ?'

Chucked in, I repose,' growled the fisherman. ' How
should I know ?'

Stop !' cried Morton suddenly. * Let me think — my head
is all confused, Mr. Barclay — so much trouble lately, but I
seem to recollect — yes. Dick Miggles, you know ; some one
that night we were fishing down among the piles under
the pier.'

Yes, I reflect of tens fishing along o' you there, Master
Mort'n.'

Yes, but one night — when I stole down, soon after that
terrible business. Why, you recollect, Mr. Linnell. You
caught me.'

Yes, of course. I recollect,' said Linnell eagerly.

Dick Miggles and I were fishing that night under the
pier, and a man came and threw something in.'

Claire turned ghastly pale, and Linnell stretched out his
hand to catch her, but she waved him off and stood firm.
You recollect, Dick?'

No,' said the fisherman sulkily. ' I don't reflect.'
Claire uttered a low moan. It was horrible, and lie

suffered a martyrdom as she stood there, helpless now to
speak or resist, only able, with her hearing terribly acute,
to listen to her brother dragging out from this man perhaps
some fresh token of her father's guilt.

You do recollect,' cried Morton fiercely. * You got up
and looked between the planks, and you said he had thrown
something into the sea.'

Oh — ah — yes — I recollect now : some one come and threw
a stone in.'

Some one would not come down to the end of the pier to
throw in a stone,' said Barclay drily.

'No,' said Morton; 'and Dick looked up and watched
and saw who it was. He pretended he couldn't see '

Clause's heart sank lower and lower. It was too horrible.


But I'm sure he could.'

No, Master Mort'n, I couldn't see.'

I noticed your manner then, Dick. I'm sure you did
see, and that's why you did not speak.'

What's why?' growled Dick, assuming a vacant air.

You knew who it was, and that something was thrown
in that you meant to dredge for, and you did and found
those jewels.'

Fisherman Dick was posed, and he rubbed his boots together
; but he looked more vacant than ever.

Yon don't want to be taken to prison and made to speak
Dick?'

No !' shouted Mrs. Higgles, ' and he shan't go.'
Then speak out, Dick,' cried Morton ; but the rough
fisherman only frowned and tightened his lips.

No ; I don't 'member,' he said, shaking his head.

You do ; and you saw who it was. Speak.'

Morton !' gasped Claire, staggering to him, and throwing
herself on his breast. ' I cannot bear it. For God's sake,,
stop !'

No,' cried the lad ; ' for my father's sake I'll have the
truth. You, Dick Miggles, I order you to speak.'

For the first time in his life, as Morton Denville stood
there erect and stern, he looked a man.

Can't,' said Dick Miggles. * Don't know.'

You do, you coward !' cried Morton. ' You will not
speak for fear of getting into trouble. Look at the trouble
we are in, and you might clear us.'

Morton, dear Morton !' moaned Claire, with horror-strike
face.

Silence, sister !' cried Morton, throwing her off. ' He
shall speak : if it was my own father who threw those things,
into the sea that night. But it was not. It was some man
with a heavy tread ; and he stopped and did what my father
never did in his life. He was smoking as he stood above
our heads, and he got a light and lit a fresh cigar.'

Oh !'

It was a low, piteous wail, full of relief from Claire. It
could not have been her father, then, and she leaned helpless
on Barclay's arm.

Morton tried to help his sister, but she smiled at him
sadly as she endeavoured to rise, and he turned to Fisherman
Dick.

Come, Dick,' he said, ' we used to be good friends and
fishermen together.'

Ay, lad, ay, so we did,' said the rough fellow, with a
smile.

Then will you not help me now I am in such trouble ?'

Ay, lad, I'd like to ; but I don't see how I can.'

Dick Higgles, you're a coward,' cried Morton. * When I
was a boy '

Nay, nay, Master Mort'n, take that back again. No
coward.'

Yes : a coward,' cried Morton angrily. ' When I was a
lad, how many times did I know about cargoes being run, and
your house being crammed with spirits and tobacco and lace
and silk ?'

How many times, my lad ?'

Yes, how many times ? Wasn't I always true to you asa
mate I fished with ?'

Yes ; that you was. Master Mort'n : that you was.'

And now you see my poor old father condemned for a
crime he did not commit, and that must have been done by
the wretch who threw those jewels into the water. You

know who did it. You saw him that night, and you will
not speak.'

Durant, my lad, durst,' growled Higgles.

You did see him, then ?'

Dick Higgles looked in all directions to avoid his questioner's
eye, but in vain : Morton went up close to him, and
took him by the thick blue woollen jersey he wore, and
held him.

You did see him ?'

Well, all right, then ; all right, then, Master Mort'n. I
did see him,' growled Higgles, * but I won't say another
word.'

You shall, if I tear it out of you,' cried Morton. ' Now
then : who was it ?'

Dunno !' growled Higgles.

You do know, sir. Sjoeak out.'

I can't, Master Horton, sir. I durst. It would get me
into no end of trouble,' said Higgles desperately. 'I can't
tell ye. I won't, there !'

He threw Horton off and folded his arms upon his breast,
looking at all defiantly.

I suppose you know, my man,' said Barclay sternly, ' that
you will be summoned as a witness before the judge, and
forced to speak ?'

No judge won't make me speak unless I like,' said
Higgles defiantly. ' I tell you all I won't say another word
and get myself into trouble, so there !'

Just then Claire took a step or two forward, laid her hands

upon Dick Higgles' broad breast, and looked up in his great
bronzed, bearded face.

The fisherman winced, and his wife hugged the child to
her, and uttered a low sob.

My poor dear father is lying in prison under sentence of
death — my poor grey-haired old father,' she said softly.
Perhaps a word from you will save his life — will save mine,

for — for my heart is breaking. I could not live if — if

I cannot say it,' she sobbed in a choking voice, as she sank
upon her knees and raised her clasped hands to the great
fellow. ' Pray, pray, speak.'

Fisherman Dick's face worked ; he stared round him and
out to sea ; and then, with a low, hoarse sob, he roared out :

Don't, Miss Claire, don't ; I can't bear it. I will speak.
It was that big officer as fought the cool with Mr. Linnell
here.'

Eockley !' cried Morton wildly.

Ay ! Him. Master Mort'n. I see him plain.'

No one spoke, but Linnell involuntarily took off his hat,
and Barclay did the same, while Morton stood for a few
moments looking down at the rapt countenance of his sister,
as with eyes closed and face upturned to heaven she knelt
there, apparently unconscious of the presence of others, her
lips moving and slowly repeating the thanksgiving flowing
mutely from her heart.

No one moved as they stood there in the broad sunshine
at the edge of the chalk cliff, with the clear blue sky above
their heads, the green down behind, and the far-spreading

VOL. III. 49

glistening sea at their feet. Then Morton Denville softly
bent his knee by his sister's side, and to Eichard Linnell the
silence seemed that of some grand cathedral where a prayer
of thanksgiving was being offered up to God.

And may I be forgiven, too,' he muttered, as he looked
down on that worn upturned face with the blue veins netting
the temples, and the closed eyes, * forgiven all my cruel doubts
all my weak suspicions of you, my darling ! for I love you
with all my heart.'

Claire rose slowly from her knees, taking her brother's
hand, and a slight flush came into her cheeks as she saw the
reverent attitude of all around.

She looked her thanks, and then turned to Higgles, catching
his broad rough hand in both of hers, and kissing it again
and again.

May God bless you !' she whispered. * You have saved
my father's life.'

She let fall the hand, which Miggles raised and thrust in
his breast, in a strange, bashful way. Then, turning quickly
to Morton, she took his arm and looked at Barclay.

*Mr. Barclay, will you do what is necessary at once? My
brother and I are going over to the gaol.'

BROUGHT HOME.

Gentlemen,' said Colonel Lascelles, ' I am going to ask
you to excuse me. You know my old fashion — bed betimes.
Eockley will take the chair, and I hope you will enjoy yourselves.
Good-night.'

The grey-headed old Colonel quitted the mess-room, and
the wine was left for the card-tables, after the customary
badinage and light conversation that marked these meetings.

It had been a special night, and a few extra toasts had
been proposed, notably the healths of Sir Matthew Bray and
his lady, it having leaked out that the young baronet had at
last led the fair Lady Drelincourt to the altar, with all her
charms.

Sir Matthew, prompted a great deal by Sir Harry Payne
who had but lately rejoined the regiment, looking pale
and ill — had made his response, and he was a good deal
congratulated, the last to speak to him about his noble
spouse being Sir Harry.

Why, Matt,' he exclaimed, ' you look as if you were going
to be hung. Aren't you happy, man ?'

49—2

Happy !' said Sir Matthew, in deep, melodramatic tones.
You speak as if you had not seen my wife.'

Sir Harry stared him full in the face for a few moments,
and then burst into a hearty laugh, but winced directly, and
drew in his breath sharply, for the knife Louis Gravani had
used struck pretty deep.

Card-playing went on for a time, the stakes being light,
and then succeeded a bout of drinking, when, with a contemptuous
look at Mellersh, Eockley, who had been drinking
hard, and was strange and excitable, called upon the party
to honour a toast he was about to propose.

Claire Denville,' he cried in a curious, reckless tone which
made Sir Harry stare.

Mellersh involuntarily glanced round, as if fearing that
Eichard Linnell was present.

Well, Colonel,' said Eockley mockingly, ' you don't drink.
Surely you are not trying to steal away my mistress.'

I ? No,' said Mellersh. ' 1 did not know you had one.*

Hang it, sir!' cried Eockley, * I have just given her name
as a toast. Do you refuse to drink it ?'

Yes,' said Mellersh coldly. * It seems to me bad taste to
propose the health of a lady whose father is under sentence
of death, and whose brother is dying not many yards away.'

Curse you, sir ! who are you, to pretend to judge me!'
cried Eockley furiously. * Gentlemen, I protest against this
sort of thing. What was Lascelles thinking about to invite
him, after what has taken place between us ?'

^ Here, Eockley, be quiet,' said Sir Matthew.

I shall not,' cried Eockley. *It is an insult to me. The
Colonel shall answer for it, and this Mellersh too.'

Nonsense !' cried Sir Harry. ' Nonsense, man; you can't
quarrel with a guest. Never mind the toast. Sit down, and
let's have a rubber. Rockley's a bit excited, Mellersh. Don't
take any notice of a few hot words.'

Silence !' cried Eockley, whose voice was thick with the
brandy he had been imbibing day by day. ' I want my toast
drunk as it should be — Claire Denville.'

Sit down, man,' cried several of his brother-officers.
Here, let's have a rubber. Sit down, Rockley, and cut.
Come, Mellersh.'

The latter shrugged his shoulders, and allowed himself to
be drawn into a game, cutting, and finding himself Rockley's
adversary.

He was singularly fortunate, and in addition he placed
with the skill of a master, the consequence being that he and
Sir Harry Payne won.

Rockley rose from the table furious with suppressed anger,
and, catching up a pack of cards, he would have thrown them
in Mellersh' s face had not Sir Harry struck at his arm, so
that the cards flew all over the room.

Mellersh turned pale, but a couple of the most sober
officers drew him aside, Su' Matthew joining them
directly.

Don't take any notice, Mellersh,' he said. * We're all
sorry. Rockley's as drunk as an owl. They're going to get
him off to bed.'

It was a deliberate insult, gentlemen,' said Mellersh
quietly.

Yes, but he doesn't know what he's about,' said Sir
Matthew. ' We all apologize.'

Meanwhile the rest had summoned several of the regimental
servants to help in getting Cockle from the room ;
but he resisted till, seeing that his case was hopeless, he
suddenly exclaimed :

Well, then, I'll go, if you'll let me propose one more toast."

No, no !' was chorused.

Then I shan't go,' cried Eockley ; * I'll stop and see
it out.'

Let him give a toast,' said Sir Harry, * and then he'll go.
On your honour, Eockley?'

On my honour,' he said : and he seemed to have grown
suddenly sober. ' Fill, gentlemen. The toast is a lady —
not Miss Denville, since it offends Colonel Mellersh. I will
give you the health of a lady who has long been one of my
favourites. Her health even that arch sharper will not
refuse to drink — my mistress, Cora Dean.'

In rapid succession, and in the midst of a deep silence, the
claret in Colonel Mellersh's glass, and the glass itself, were
dashed in Major Eockley 's face.

Eockley uttered a howl of rage that did not seem to be
human ; and he would have sprung at Mellersh's throat had
he not been restrained, while the latter remained perfectly
calm.

There is no need for us to tear ourselves like brute beasts.

gentlemen,' he said. * Major Rockley shall have the pleasure
of shooting the arch sharper — myself — where you will
arrange — tomorrow morning ; but before I leave I beg to
say that Miss Dean is a lady whom I hold in great honour,
and any insult to her is an insult to me.'

Loose me, Bray. Let me get at the cowardly trickster
and cheat,' yelled Rockley. * He shall not leave here
without my mark upon him. Do you hear? Loose me.
He shall not go.'

He struggled so furiously that he freed himself and was
rushing at Mellersh, when the door was thrown open and
the grey-headed old Colonel of the regiment entered.

What is this ?' said the Colonel sternly. * Major
Rockley, are you mad? I have business, sir, at once, with
you.'

Rockley stared from one to the other, and seemed to be
sobered on the instant.

Business with me ?' he said quickly. * Well, what is it ?
Payne, I leave myself in your hands. Now, Colonel, what
is it?'

The old Colonel drew aside and pointed to the door.

Go to my quarters, sir,' he said sternly. * But you
should have some one with you beside me. Sir Harry
Payne, you are Major Rockley's greatest intimate. Go
with him.'

Sir Harry was, after Mellersh, the most sober of the party,
his wound having necessitated his being abstemious, and he
turned to the Colonel.

He was very drunk,' he said. ' We'll get him to bed. I'll
talk to Mellershwhen he is gone, and nothing shall come of it.'

You have misunderstood my meaning, Payne,' said the
Colonel sternly. * I am not interfering about a card quarrel,
sir, or a contemptible brawl about some profligate woman.
This is an affair dealing with the honour of our regiment, as
well as Major Eockley's liberty.'

A spasm seemed to have seized Eockley, but he was calm
the next moment, and walked steadily to the Colonel's
quarters, not a word being spoken till the old officer threw
open the door of his study, and they were in the presence of
Lord Carboro', Barclay, Morton Denville, and the Chief
Constable.

The Colonel was the only one who took a chair, the
others bowing in answer to the invitation to be seated, and
remaining standing.

Now, Mr. Denville,' said the Colonel, ' Major Eockley is
here : will you have the goodness to repeat the words that
you said to me ? I must warn you, though, once more, that
this is a terrible charge against your brother-officer, and
against our regiment. I should advise you to be careful,
and unless you have undoubted proof of what you say, to
hesitate before you repeat the charge.'

Sir,' said Morton, standing forward, * I am fighting the
battle of my poor father, who has been condemned to death
for a crime of which he is innocent.'

He has been tried by the laws of his country, Mr.
Denville, and convicted.'

Because everything seemed so black against him, sir,
through the devilish machinations of that man.'

Be careful, sir,' said the Colonel sternly. ' Once more,
be careful.'

I must speak out, sir,' cried Morton firmly. * I repeat it
the devilish machinations of this man — who has been the
enemy and persecutor of my family ever since he has been
here.'

To the point, sir,' said the Colonel, as Rockley stood up
with a contemptuous look in his dark eyes, and his tall,
well-built figure drawn to his full height.

I will to the point, sir,' said Morton. ' I charge this
man, the insulter and defamer of my sister, with being the
murderer of Lady Teigne !'

Hah !'

It was Major Rockley who uttered that ejaculation : and,
springing forward, he had in an instant seized Morton
Denville by the throat and borne him against the wall.

It was a momentary burst of fierce rage that was over
directly ; and, dropping his hands and stepping back, the
Major stood listening as Morton went on.

Taking advantage of the similarity of figure between
himself and my unfortunate brother, he took Frederick
Denville' s uniform one night for a disguise, and to cast the
suspicion upon an innocent man, should he be seen, and
then went to the house and killed that miserable old woman
as she slept.'

You hear this charge, Rockley ?' said the Colonel.

Yes, I hear,' was the scornful reply.

Go on, Mr. Denville : I am bound to hear you,' said the
Colonel. * What reason do you give for this impossible act ?'

Poverty, sir. Losses at the gaming tables. To gain
possession of Lady Teigne's jewels.'

Pish !' ejaculated Cockle, with his dark eyes flashing.

Those jewels proved to be false,' continued Morton, ' and
at the first opportunity Major Eockley took them, in the
dead of the night, and threw them from the end of the pier
into the sea.'

How do you know that?' said the Colonel.

I was on the platform beneath, fishing, sir ; and the
fisherman I was with dredged them up afterwards, and
sold them to Mr. Barclay.'

Yes,' said that individual. ' I have them still.'

Bah ! Absurd !' cried Eockley, throwing back his head.
Colonel Lascelles, are you going to believe this folly?'

I am powerless, Major Eockley,' said the Colonel in a
quick, sharp manner. ' This charge is made in due form.'

And it is enough for me, sir,' said the constable, stepping
forward. ' Major Eockley, I arrest you on the charge of
murder.'

Eockley made a quick movement towards the door, but
stopped short.

Pish ! I was surprised,' he exclaimed, as the constable
sprang in his way. ' What do you want to do ?'

Take you, sir.'

'What? Disgraced like this ?' cried Eockley furiously.

Colonel, you will not allow the insult to the regiment. Give
your word that I will appear.'

I am helpless, sir,' cried the old Colonel.

Place me under arrest then, and let me appear in due
time.'

I claim Major Eockley as my prisoner, sir,' cried the
constable stoutly. ' I have a warrant in proper form,
and my men waiting. This is not an ordinary case.'

Oh, very well,' cried Eockley contemptuously ; * I am
ready. The charge is as ridiculous as it is disgraceful. I
presume that I may return to my quarters, and tell my
servant to pack up a few necessaries ?'

Of course ; of course, Eockley,' said the Colonel. ' There
can be no objection to this.'

He looked at the constable as he spoke, but that individual
made no reply. He placed himself by Eockley 's
side, and Sir Harry Payne went out with them.

I don't believe it, Eockley,' cried the latter. ' Here, I'll
stand by you to the end.'

Eockley gave him a grim nod, glanced sharply round,
and then strode out to his own quarters only a few yards
away.

Well, gentlemen,' said the Colonel, looking from one to
the other ; ' this is a most painful business for me. Mr.
Denville, as your father's son, I cannot blame you very
much, but if you had been ten years older you would have
acted differently.'

Colonel Lascelles,' said Lord Carboro' coldly, ' I do

not see how Mr. Morton Denville could have acted differently.'


I will not argue the point with you, my lord,' said the
Colonel. ' May I ask you to My God ! What's that ?'

It was a dull report, followed by the hurrying of feet, and
the excitement that would ensue in a barrack at the discharge
of fire-arms.

Before the Colonel could reach the door, it was thrown
open, and Sir Harry Payne staggered in, white as ashes,
and sank into a chair.

'Water!' he exclaimed. * I'm, weak yet.'

What is it ? Are you hurt ?' cried the Colonel.

No. Good heavens ! how horrible,' faltered the young
man with a sob. * Eockley !'

Eockley ?' cried Morton excitedly.
He has blown out his brains !'

A LONG ADIEU.

Major Eockley's tacit acknowledgment of the truth of the
charge against him, and the piecing together of the Hanks,
showed how, on the night of Lady Teigne's death, he had
been absent from the mess for two hours, during which Fred
Denville lay drunk in the officers' quarters — made drunk by
the Major's contrivance, so that his uniform could be used.
How too, so as further to avert suspicion, the Major had the
fiendish audacity to take the party to perform the serenade
where the poor old votary of fashion lay dead.

The truth, so long in coming to the surface, prevailed at
last, and Stuart Denville, broken and prostrated, found himself
the idol of the crowd from Saltinville, who collected to
see him freed from the county gaol.

To the barracks, Claire,' he whispered. ' Let us get
away from here.'

They were at the principal hotel, and Claire was standing
before him, pale and trembling with emotion.

Your blessing and forgiveness first,' she murmured. * Oh,
father, that I could be so blind !'

So blind ?' he said tenderly, as he took her in his arms.

No : say so noble and so true. Did you not stand by me
when you could not help believing me guilty, and I could
not speak ? But we are wasting time. I have sent word to
poor Fred. My child, I have his forgiveness to ask for all
the past.'

They met the regimental surgeon as they drove up.

You have come quickly,' he said. * Did you get my
message ?'

'Your message?' cried Claire, turning pale. 'Is — is he
worse ?'

The surgeon bowed his head.

I had hopes when you were here last,' he said gently ;

but there has been an unfavourable turn. The poor fellow
has been asking for you. Miss Denville ; you had better
come at once.'

He led the way to the infirmary, where the finely-built,
strong man lay on the simple pallet, his face telling its own
tale more eloquently than words could have spoken it.

Ah, little sister,' he said feebly, as his face lit up with a
happy smile. * I wanted you. You will not mind staying
with me and talking. Tell me,' he continued, as Claire knelt
down by his bed's head, * is it all true, or have they been
saying I am innocent to make it easier— now I am going
away ?'

No, no, Fred,' said Claire ; ' it is true that you are quite
innocent.'

Is this the truth ?' he said feebly.

'The truth,' whispered Claire; 'and you must hive — my
brother — to help and protect me.'

No,' he said sadly ; * it is too late. I'm glad though that
I did not kill the old woman. It seemed all a muddle. I
was drunk that night. Poor old dad ! Can't they set him
free ?'

My boy ! — Fred ! — can you forgive me?' cried Denville,
bending over the face that gazed up vacantly in his.

Who's that ?' said the dying man sharply. ' I can't see.

Only you, Claire — who's that ? Father ?'

My son ! — my boy ! Fred, speak to me — forgive '

There was a terrible silence in the room as the old man's

piteous cry died out, and he sank upon his knees on the other

side of the narrow bed, and laid his wrinkled forehead upon

his son's breast.

Forgive ? — you, father ?' said Fred at last, in tones that
told how rapidly the little life remaining was ebbing away.
It's all right, sir — all a mistake — my life — one long blunder.
Take care of Claire here — and poor little May.'

My boy — the mistake has been mine,' groaned Denville,

and I am punished for it now.'

No, no — old father — take care — Claire here.'

He seemed to doze for a few minutes, and Denville

rose to go and ask the surgeon if anything could be

done.

Nothing but make his end as peaceful as you can. Ah,
my lad, you here ?'

Yes,' said Morton. * How is he?'

Alive,' said the surgeon bluntly ; and he turned
away.

Fred Denville seemed to revive as soon as he was left
alone with his sister ; and, looking at her fixedly, he seemed
to be struggling to make out whose was the face that bent
over him.

Claire — little sister,' he said at last, with a smile of rest
and content. ' Glairy — Eichard Linnell ? Tell me.'

Oh, Fred, Fred, hush !' she whispered.

No, no ! Tell me. I can see you clearly now. It
would make me happier. I'm going, dear. A fine, truehearted
fellow ; and he loves you. Don't let yours bea
wrecked life too.'

'Fred! dear Fred !'

Let it all be cleared up now — you two. You do love
him, sis?'

Fred ! dear Fred !' she sobbed ; ' with all my heart.'

Ah !' he said softly, with a sigh of satisfaction. * Ask
him to come here. No; bring the old man back — and
Morton. Don't cry, my little one ; it's — it's nothing now,
only the long watch ended, and the time for rest.'

In another hour he had fallen asleep as calmly as a weary
child — sister, father, and brother at his side ; and it seemed
but a few hours later to Morton Denville that he was
marching behind the bearers with the funeral march ringing
in his ears, and the muffled drums awaking echoes in his

heart — a heart that throbbed painfully as the farewell volley
was fired across the grave.

For Fred Demdlle's sm against his officers was forgiven,
and Colonel Lascelles was one of the first to follow him to
the grave.

VOL. III. 50

THE EVE OF THE FINISH.

A LETTER, Claire, so painful that I shrank from reading it
to you, only that I have no secrets from my promised v/ife.'

Does it give you pain ?' said Claire, as she looked up in
Eichard Linnell's face, where they sat in the half-light of
evening, with the sea spread before them — placid and serene
as their life had been during the past few weeks.

Bitter pain,' he said sadly, as he gazed at the saddened
face, set off by the simple black in which she was clothed.

Then why not let me share it ? Is pain so new a thing
to me ?'

So old that I would spare you more ; and yet you ought
to know my family cares, as I have known yours.'

May I read?' said Claire softly, as she laid her thin white
hand upon the letter.

He resigned it to her without a word ; but as she opened
the folds :

Yes ; read it,' he said. * It concerns you as much as it
does me, and you shall be the judge as to whether the
secret shall be kept.'

Claire looked up at him wonderingly, and then read the
letter aloud.

It \Yas a passionate appeal, and at the same time a
confession and a farewell ; and, as Claire read on, she grew
the more confused and wondering.

For the letter was addressed to Eichard Linnell, asking
his forgiveness for the many ways in which the writer, in her
tender love and earnest desire for his happiness, had stood
between him and Claire, ready to spread reports against her
fame, and contrive that Linnell should hear them, since the
writer had never thoroughly known Claire Denville's heart,
but had judged her from the standpoint of her sister. It
had been agony to the writer to see Linnell' s devotion to a
woman whom she believed to be unworthy of his love ; and
as this father's life had been wrecked by a woman's deceit, the
writer had sworn to leave no stone unturned to save the son.

At times the letter grew sadly incoherent, and the tears
with which it had been blotted showed its truthfulness,
as the writer prayed Eichard's forgiveness for fighting
against his love and giving him such cruel pain.

Colonel Mellersh will explain all to you,' the letter went
on, ' for he has known everything. It was he who saved
me from further degradation, and found the money to buy
this business, where I thought to live out my remaining
span of life unknown, and only soothed by seeing you at
times — you whom I loved so dearly and so well.'

Claire looked up from the letter wonderingly, but Linnell
bade her read on.

50—2

Colonel Mellersh fought hard against my wishes at first,
but he yielded at last out of pity. I promised him that I
would never make myself known — never approach your
father's home — and I have kept my word. Mellersh has
absolved me now that I am leaving here for ever, and I go
asking your forgiveness as your wretched mother, and
begging you to ask for that of Claire Denville, the sweet,
true, faithful woman whom you will soon, I hope, make
your wife.

Lastly, I pray and charge you not to break the simple,
calm happiness of your father's life by letting him know
that his unhappy wife has for years been living so near at
hand.'

But, Eichard,' cried Claire, ' I always thought that —
that she was dead.'

He told me so,' replied Linnell sadly. * She was dead
to him. There, you have read all. It was right that
you should know. Colonel Mellersh has told me the rest.'

Linnell crumpled up the letter, and then smoothed it out,
and folded and placed it in his breast.

It is right,' he said again, ' that you should know the
truth. Mellersh is my father's oldest friend. They were
youths together. When the terrible shock came upon my
father that he was alone, and that his wife had fled with a
man whom he had made his companion after Mellersh had
gone upon foreign service, his whole life was changed, and
he became the quiet, subdued recluse you see.'

Linnell paused for a few minutes, and then went on :

Mellersh had idolized my mother when she was a bright
fashion-loving girl ; but he accepted Iris fate when she gave
the preference to my father. When he came home from
India and found what had happened, and that this wretch
had cast her off, he shot the betrayer of my father's name,
and then sought out and rescued my mother, placing her as
you have read, at her desire, here.'

But, Eichard dear, I am so dull and foolish — I can
only think of one person that this could possibly have been ;
and it could not be '

Miss Close ? Yes, that was the name she took. My
mother, Claire. What do you say to me now?'

Claire rose from her seat gently, and laid her hand upon
her arm.

We must keep her secret, Eichard,' she said ; ' but let us
go to her together now.'

Then you forgive her the injury she did you ?'

It was out of love for you ; and she did not know
me then. Let us go.'

Impossible,' he said, taking her in his arms. * She has
left here for ever. Some day we may see her, but the proposal
is to come from her.'

They did not hear the door open as they stood clasped in
each other's arms, nor hear it softly closed, nor the whispers
on the landing, as one of the visitors half sobbed :

Ain't it lovely, Jo-si-ah ? Did you see 'em ? If it wasn't
rude and wrong, I could stand and watch 'em for hours. It
do put one in mind of the days when '

Hold your tongue, you stupid old woman,' was the gruff
reply. * It's quite disgusting. A woman at your time of
life wanting to watch a pair of young people there, and
no candles lit.'

Hush! Don't talk so loud, or they'll hear us; and now
Jo-si-ah, as it's in my mind, I may as well say it to you at
once.'

Now, look here,' said Barclay in a low voice, in obedience
to his wife's request, but speaking quickly, * I've been bitten
pretty heavily by the fellows in the regiment that has just
gone, so if it's any new plan of yours that means money,
you may stop it, for not a shilling do you get from me. There !'

And at your time of life, too ! To tell such fibs, Jo-si-ah !
Just as if I didn't know that you've made a profit of Sir
Harry Payne alone, enough to cover all your losses. Now,
look here : I don't like little Mrs. Burnett, or Gravani, or
whatever her name is, but seeing how she's left alone in the
world, and nobody's wife after all, and poor Mr. Denville is
poor Mr. Denville, and it's a tax upon him, and you're out
so much, I've been thinking, I say '

Wouldn't do, old lady. She's not the woman who would
make our home comfortable ; and besides '

But she's so different, Jo-si-ah, since she has been getting
nearly well.'

Glad of it, old lady. Hope she'll keep so. But you
forget that Claire will soon be leaving home, and '

What a stupid old woman I am, Jo-si-ah ! Why, of
course ! Her place is there along with her father ; and it's

wonderful how he pets that little child. There now, I'm
sure they've had long enough. Let's go in and tell them
the news.'

This time Mrs. Barclay tapped at the door softly, before
opening it half an inch and saying :

May we come in ?'

Her answer was the door flung wide, and Claire's arms
round her neck.

We've come to tell you that we've just seen Lord Carboro',
my dear, and he told us that he'd heard about your brother
from the Colonel of his new regiment, out in Gibraltar, and
that he's getting on as well as can be.'

A TALE THAT IS TOLD.

It was just such a visit that Mrs. Barclay paid Claire Den-ville
about a fortnight later ; and after one of her extremely
warm embraces, she exclaimed :

Guess.'

Guess what, Mrs. Barclay ?'

Who's married. There, you needn't blush, my dear,
because yours is fixed all right at last, but you'll never guess
who.'

Then tell me,' said Claire, smiling.
No, guess.'

I cannot. There are so many.'

Then I will tell you. No, no : you're too late,' she
cried, as Eichard Linnell hurriedly entered ; ' I've brought
the news.'

You've told her then that Cora Dean is married ?'

Now what a shame, Mr. Eichard,' cried Mrs. Barclay.
I hadn't time to say it, but I was just going to tell her.
But she doesn't know who to, and I will tell her that.
Colonel Mellersh, my dear.'

Colonel Mellersh !' cried Claire.

Yes,' said Eichard Liddell. ' I have just received this
from horn. A message from them both.'

Claire opened her lips to speak, but her eyes fell upon
Eichard Linnell's thoughtful face, and it was he who spoke
next, and said slowly :

No : now I come to think of it all, I am not surprised.'

Of course, Saltinville talked a great deal about this
match, but the worthies of the place talked more about
another wedding that took place six months later — a
wedding at which Lord Carboro' insisted upon being the
bridegroom's best man.

It was upon that occasion, after returning from the
church, that Lord Carboro' took a casket from his pocket
and placed it in Claire's hands.

The old jewels, my dear, that I have prized because you
refused them once before. God bless you ! and I know He
will.'

The old man turned quickly away with his face working,
and crossed to the Master of the Ceremonies, who was
looking very much his old self, in his meagrely furnished
diningroom, and tapped him half angrily upon the
shoulder.

Hang it all, Denville,' he cried, ' can't you see I've forgotten
my snuff-box, and am dying for a pinch? The old
box, sir— His Eoyal Highness's box. Hah ! That's better,'
he ejaculated, after dipping his thin white finger and thumb
in the chased gold box, ' a friend at a pinch, eh, Denville,

eh? Damme, sir, your young wits and beaux don't often
beat that, eh? The old school's passing away, Danville
eh? passing away.'

With the noblemen who are your lordship's contemporaries.'


Tut-tut-tut ! Denville, don't. Never mind the lordship.
We must be better friends, man — better friends for our
little fag ends of troubled lives. Hush ! No more now.
This is the bride and bridegroom's day.'

There were many strangers who, visiting Saltinville, were
ready to smile at the tottering white-haired beau, so
elaborately dressed, and who, not from need, but from
custom, clung to his old habits and received visitors as
Master of the Ceremonies still. It was a quaint old fiction,
and he used to glory in his fees, now they were only wanted
for a purpose he had in view.

There were other laughs too ready to be bestowed upon
the palsied old nobleman in the dark wig, who met the
Master of the Ceremonies every morning on the Parade,
and took snuff with him as they flourished their canes, and
flicked away fancied spots of dust. Their high collars and
pantaloons and Hessian boots, all came in for notice. So
did those wonderful beaver hats, black for winter, white for
summer, which were lifted with such a display of deportment,
in return to the salutes of those who were taking the
air. It was always the same : they met at the same hour,
at the same spot, took snuff, chatted upon the same themes,

and then strolled down to the end of the pier talking of how
times have changed, sir : times have changed.'

Who's him, sir — old chap in the black wig, and a face
like a wooden nut-cracker? Oh, he's old Lord Carboro'.'

And the other ?' said the stranger, who had been questioning
Fisherman Dick, as the old men passed them by.

'T'other, sir? Ah, I could tell you a deal about him.
That's the Master o' the Ceremonies, that is. I could tell
you a long story about he.'

And so he did.

THE END.

BILLING AND SONS, PRINTERS, GUILDFORD.

WARD AND DOWNEY'S

List of

NEW PUBLICATIONS.

WARD & DOWNEY'S

LIST OF PUBLICATIONS.

Few and Portlicoiniiig Works.

LIFE OF VA Be LISZT. By E. Ledos de Beaufort, Editor

of " The Letters of George Sand." Crown 8vo. With Portraits. 6s.

ORANGES AND ALLIGATORS : SKETCHES OF SOUTH
African Life. By Iza Duffds Hardy. Crown 8vo. 6s.

Three-cornered ESSAYS. New Edition. Crown 8vo. 3s. 6d.

LIVING PARIS. A uew Guide-book to Paris. With Maps

and plans. Foolscap 8vo. 7s. 6d.

FIFTY YEARS OF A GOOD QUEEN'S REIGN. By A.
H. Wall. Imperial 16mo. Cloth 6s. Bevelled boards. Gilt edges.
7s. 6d.

Eighty-five YEARS OF IRISH HISTORY. By W. J.

O'NEILL Daunt. 2 vols. Crown Svo. 21s.

TILLOTSON's SERMONS. Selected, Edited, and Annotated
by the Rev. G. W. Weldon, Mea. Crown Svo. 7s. 6d.

OLD COURT LIFE IN FRANCE. By Mrs. Frances Elliott.
With Twenty whole page Engravings. Eoyal Svo. 7s. 6d.

UNDER TWO FIG TREES: A HUMOROUS NARRATIVE
of London Life. By H. Francis Lester. With upwards of Twenty
Original Illustrations. Crown Svo. 3s. 6d.

A HERO OF OUR TIME. A Novel. Translated from the
Russian of Term cutoff by Lippmakn. With a Biographical Sketch of
Lermonioff. Crown 8vo. 6s.

NEW NOVELS in preparation by "Basil," Katharine S.
Macquoid, Frank Barrett, Blanche Roosevelt, F. C. Philips, die.

Ne^vNovelsatEveryLib^ary.

THE MASTER OF THE CEREMONIES. By G. Manville
Finn. 3 vols. 31s. 6d.

[N ONE TOWN. By the Author of *' Anchor Watch Yarns."
2 vols. 21s.

FATAL BONDS. By Richard Bowling. 3 vols. 31s. 6d.

HER WEEK'S AMUSEMENT. By the Author of " A Mental

Struggle," &c. Crown 8vo. 6s.

TWO PINCHES OF SNUFF. By William Stall, Author

of " Red Lymington," &c. 3 vols. 31s. '6d.

Atlas: A STORY OF THE LOST ISLAND, By Mrs. J.

Gregory Smith. Crown 8vo. 5s.

THE ALIENS. By Henry F. Keenan, Author of " Trajan."
2 vols. Small Post 8vo. 12s.

A PRINCESS OF Dukedom. By Charles Gibbon. 3 vols.
Crown 8vo. 31s. 6d.

THE CHILCOTES. By Leslie Keith, Author of '' Alaska's

Lady," &c. 3 vols. Crown 8vo. 31s. 6d.

A LUCKY YOUNG WOMAN. By F. C. Philips, Author of

Ass in a Looking Glass," &c. 3 vols. Crown 8vo. 31s. 6d.

SOCIAL VICISSITUDES. By F. C. Philips. Crown 8vo. 6s.

DOUBLE CUNNING. By G. Manville Fenn. Crown 8vo. 6s.

A MENTAL STRUGGLE. By the Author of " Phyllis." 3 vols.
Crown 8vo. 31s, 6d.

IN A SILVER SEA. By B. L. Farjeon. 3 vols. 31s. 6a.

A REIGNING FAVOURITE. By Annie Thomas (Mrs. Tender
CuDLip). 3 vols. Crown 8vo. 31s. 6d.

Dulcis Carlton. By James Grant. 3 vols. Crown 8vo.

31b. 6d.

Popular Towels. Each in One Yolumfi.

Price Six Shillings,

HER WEEK'S AMUSEMENT. By the Author of *' A Mental
Struggle."

A HERO OF OUR TIME. By M. U. Lermontoff.

Il LORIMER. By The. Gift.

LOUISA. By Katharine S. Macquoid.

DOUBLE CUXXL\G. By G. Manville Fenn.

AS IN A LOOKING GLASS. By F. C. Philips.

SOCIAL VICISSITUDES. By F. C. Philips.

THAT VILLAIN, ROMEO! By J. Fitzgerald Molly.

THE SACRED NUGGET. By B. L. Farjeon.

GREAT PORTER SQUARE. By B. L. Farjeon.

THE HOUSE OF WHITE SHADOWS. By B. L. FarjeoxN.

LESS THAN KIN. By J. E. Panton,

PROPER PRIDE. By B. M. Croaker.

PRETTY MISS NEVILLE. By B. M. Croaker.

COWARD AND COQUETTE. By the Author of " The Parish

of Hilly," &c.,

VIVA. By Mrs. Forrester.

THE FLOWER OF DOOM. By. M. Bentham-Edwards

THE PRETTIEST WOMAN IN WARSAW. By Mabel

Collins.

THE LADY DRUSILLA: A PSYCHOLOGICAL ROMANCE.
By Thomas Parnell. [/n the Pi less

Popular Novels. Each in One Volume— continued.

Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence.
COMEDIES FROM A COUNTRY SIDE, By W. Outran

Tristan.

Price Five Shillings,
DAVID BROOME; or, OUT OF TEE WORLD, By Mrs.

Egbert CKeillj
Atlas. A Story of the Lost Island. By Mrs. J. Gregory Smith.

Price Four Shillings and Sixpence.
THE NEW RIVER. A Romance of the Days of Hugh
Myddelton. By Edward Fitzgibbon.

Price Three Shillings and Sixpence,
A MAIDEN ALL FORLORN. By the Author of "A Mental

Struggle."

FOLLY MORRISON, By Frank Barrett.

Price Two Shillings and Sixpence,
SSOWBOUND AT EAGLE'S. By Bret Harte.

Price Two Shillings picture boards, 2s. Qd. cloth.
Grief. By B. L. Farjeon.

THE DUKES SWEETHEART. By Eichard Bowling.
UNDER ST. PAUL'S. By Eichard Bowling.
THE OUTLAW OF ICELAND. By Victor Hugo.
HONEST DAVIE. By Frank Barrett.

Price One Shilling.
LADY Walworth's DIAMONDS. By the Author of

Mental Struggle."
A PRINCE OF DARKNESS. By Florence Warden.
OLIVERS BRIDE. By Mrs. Oliphant.
THE DARK HOUSE. By G. Manville Fenn.
EVE AT THE WHEEL By G. Manville Fenn.
A DEADLY ERRAND By Max Hillary.
Polka. By B. L. Farjeon.
EATEN UP, By*'EosTEN."

PRESS OPINIONS ON RECENT
PUBLICATIONS.

Ie Letters of George Sand. Edited and

with a Biography of George Sand. By E. L. de Beaufort.
With six portraits of George Sand at various periods of her
life. 3 vols., Demy 8vo., cloth. 86s.

♦• Charming, entertaining, interesting, instructive." — World.

They are fuller of frank self-revelation than the autobiography . . .
They abound in interesting notices of public affairs . . . Their intrinsic
interest, great as it is, is subordinated to the fascination exercised over us by
the individuality of the gifted writer . . . The letters of what we may call
the early period are full of domestic interest." — The Times,

The most important of recent contributions to biography The

Letters were written to all sorts of people, and they discuss all sorts of questions.
That they are extremely interesting it is scarcely necessary to say." — Graphic.

It is this second George Sand — good, kindly, unselfish, brave, devoted to
duty, and, for all her genius, unaffectedly modest — it is this George Sand we
can best study in her correspondence. And this points to what is, I think, the
main interest and charm of her collected letters." — Academy.

Their intrinsic interest, the large additions that they make to the knowledge
of their author's character, the varied scenes and the numerous attractive
personalities that they bring before us, can neither escape the notice, nor
disappoint the expectation, of any competent reader. M. Ledos de Beaufort
has, in some respects, improved the conditions in which the work comes before
such a reader. We had occasion to comment on the very insufficient annotation
of the French edition. This, M. Ledos de Beaufort has largely and usefully
increased. He has also been well advised in illustrating his volumes (which are
handsomely printed! with six portraits, ranging from the early, and in every
sense romantic, sketch of Delacroix to Tartar's photograph, taken when George

Sand was an old woman The translation itself is, if not exactly a

masterpiece, for the most part quite fluent and readable as well as exact. The
biographical sketch preceding it is rather more exotic in style than the text, and
leans decidedly more to the side of enthusiasm than to that of criticism ; but it
contains a convenient statement of facts. Altogether the book may be very
well recommended to English readers." — Athenaeum.

Turning from novels to one of the greatest of novelists, ' though, perhaps,
a little not so much read as she used to be,' we encounter the ' Letters of
George Sand,' translated by M. Raphael de Beaufort, and published, not in a
cheap shape as in France, but in three handsome and rather heavy volumes.
The English edition has the advantage of being illustrated with most interesting
portraits of Madame Devant The correspondence is an in-the

LETTERS OF George SA-ND— continued.

dispensable commentary on her Memoirs Any reader who has once

felt the fascination of this wonderful woman, so astonishing a mixture of genius,
goodness, nobility, meanness, kindness, self-deception, passion, and coolness ;
this Napoleon in petticoats, and with fiction, not fact, for her battle-field, will
find it hard to leave off reading her letters. They are excellently readable
in the English translation, which is equipped with a brief biography and notes."
Dailij News.

Of wide interest. The volumes'contain letters to About, Louis Blanc, Victor
Hugo, Lamartine, and others; and they give the reader personal glimpses of
the aspirations and fears, the struggles, and the lights and shades of one of the
most remarkable women of our times, and of one of the most brilliant writers
of the century." — St. James's Gazette.

George Sand played a prominent part in the revolutionary storm that more
than once raged over France during her lifetime, 1804-1876. Often her
utterances in the reviews and newspapers were veiled. It was to her friends
she formulated her ideals and poured forth her longings. The record in her
'Letters ' reads like the romance of a new Arcadia. Sometimes, it is true, the
writer's vigour exceeds her discretion ; but then she gives utterance to a
thousand and one brilliant ideas that go a long way towards compensating for

any of these senses de guerre A word in conclusion for the

translator. M. Ledos de Beaufort has accomplished his somewhat long, yet
WG would suppose not uninteresting, task deftly. We have not the original
Memoirs before us to consult, but the translator has rendered the 'Letters' into
plain and simple language which adds yet another temptation to incline
readers to take in hand a very readable and a very remarkable work." — Pictorial
World.

No memoirs of George Sand can be complete without her autobiography,
as laid out in correspondence to accompany them. ' The Letters of George
Sand,' translated as well as edited by Raphael Ledos de Beaufort, and recently
published by Messrs. Ward and Downey in three substantial volumes, are all
her admirers or disciples can desire. This bulky collection of epistles from the
most piquant pen of its age, though it will stand in English bookshelves by the
side of the many excellent sketches of the authoress's life we have already had,
is in itself a record of her career, saturated furthermore with her individuality,
lightened by her incisive style, and illuminated by her pleasant Gallic wit and
shrewdly sarcastic periods. George Sand must ever be her own best historian,
but here in these letters there is more interest than that of mere personal
narrative or exposition of the fancies and foibles of this distinguished

novelist For those whose curiosity makes them desire to recognise

the great writer's individuality the half-dozen portraits in these volumes,
representing her as painted by Delacroix's and other faithful brushes,
will be full of interest. A more useful collection of letters than this
excellently translated and published series has not been issued for some time." —
Daily Telegraph.

We do not hesitate to give a cordial welcome to these volumes with which
M. de Beaufort has enriched our literature through the medium of a good
English translation. . . . The work is the most important one of the kind
that has appeared in France since the publication of the correspondence of
Mad i.ne de Repast. Indeed, the letters of George Sand must be assigned a

higher place, as the writings of a great and many-sided genius, a never-resting
worker, and a public character de premiere ligne' — Bookseller.

The most interesting and valuable of recent contributions to literary
history. The writer of these letters was one of the the most remarkable
women and the greatest novelists of any time. Nor is it only as an author of
genius that she claims attention ; it is safe to say that her own life is a romance
more thrilling and varied than any of her novels, many of which, indeed, are but
episodes in her experience." — Literary World.

Gladstone's House of Commons. By

T. P. O'Connor, M.P. Demy 8vo, cloth. 12s cl.

"Recalls vividly the eventful scenes of the late memorable Parliament. So
the historian of the future such volumes will be invaluable." — Graphic.

Readers will find in these pages a most interesting resume of the principal

parliamentary episodes of the last five years He is always clear

and concise, and has described with graphic force many exciting scenes in the
House." — Morning Post.

The book is eminently honest and thoroughly readable. Some of the
descriptions are vivid enough to carry a sparkle even in these days. One great
virtue the book has, it has absolutely no smack of the midnight oil, every line
is evidently a genuine sketch, done on the spot, with the charm of freedom
which all sketches possess. It is not a book to read carefully through, though,
indeed. I myself confess to devouring it at meals, but a book to pick up at odd
moments. "Wherever you open it, you may be sure to find a good anecdote, a
clever sketch, or a sound piece of political criticism." — St. Stephen's Review.

Mr. O'Connor has always a lively, and often a brilliant, pen, and his sketches
of men and scenes in the House, frequently dashed off in great h:.ste as they must
have been to catch a morning paper on the other side of the Irish Channel,
constitute an admirable and vivid picture of times about which we can never know

too much Will take its place at once among the indispensable

works of Parliamentary reference." — Pall Mall Gazette.

He gives a most vivid picture of the bickering and heart-burnings at St.
Stephen's under Mr. Gladstone's recent dictatorship. In his estimates of men
Mr. O'Connor is often, we think, hasty ; he is fairly generous, and not
Infrequently he employs a satiric pen ; his one endeavour is apparently to be
amusing, and in this he admirably succeeds The story throughout
reads like a piece of American humour. It might have been penned by
Artemis Ward ; so grotesquely funny are some of its incidents, that it cannot
fail to afford as much entertainment as that writer's P cp-show, or Mark Twain's
New Pilgrim's Progress. Get the book and read it. It is impossible to dissect its
hon mots, they are so many and so admirably fitted into the irreverent matter
that it is impossible to give specimens of them without losing their piquancy." —
Pictorial World.

GLADSTONE'S HOUSE OF COMMONS— continued.

'• Its appearance is peculiarly timely just now, when the importance of the
Irish question is for the first time beginning to be seriously recognised by the
bulk of Englishmen. We have had records and accounts of the late Parliament
before, done from the point of view of the purely English observer. Here,
however, we have a volume in which the progress of events is presented by an
Irishman from an Irish point' of view, and presented with remarkable ability
and really brilliant descriptive power. Those Englishmen who are most
opposed to Mr. O'Connor in political opinions will find much to learn and much
to interest them in these pages. And to those who are really anxious to obtain
a better-appreciation of what the Irish question is, a study of ' Gladstone's
House of Commons ' is indispensable." — Truth.

An eminently readable, instructive and pleasant work, and a history of the
Parliament 1880-1884 ; as lively and interesting as a novel." — Nation.

Keen, vivid and highly epigrammatical papers which here form so
fascinating a record of the five years of Mr. Gladstone's adminstration. The
scenes which he describes will rise as vividly before the imagination as if the
readers themselves had taken part in each and all of them : a picture gallery
glowing with life; bright with humour, and keen with critical appreciation," —
Freeman's Journal.

Bright and graphic in style, as fair as could reasonably be anticipated, and
undeniably accurate in its facts, Mr. T. P. O'Connor's interesting and valuable
volume, ' Gladstone's House of Commons,' is a book that no student of contemporary
politics should be without as amusing as it is replete

with sterling information." — Society.

A captivating little history. Superb as are Mr. O'Connor's gifts of oratory
they are eclipsed by his wondrous facility, rapidity, versatility, and luxuriance
as a Press-writer. Descriptive writing in these pages reaches perhaps the
height of its magic power of painting indelibly on the memory scenes of which
dry verbatim reports can give no more true idea than can be had of the flavour
of champagne by reading a wine list." — United Ireland.

His book has a political value, apart from the excellence of its style and
the accuracy of its descriptions." — Western Morning News.

A bright picture, drawn with a masterly pen." — Judy.

*' Sparkling, and admirably lively." — Berliner Tagehlatt.

Robertson of Brighton : With some Notices
of his Times and his Contemporaries. By the Key.
F. Arnold. Post 8yo., cloth. 9s.

•' He has evidently studied Kobertson's writings with care, and sees the
weakness as well as the strength of a remarkable man, who had many weaknesses
as well as much strength. The result is a book of no little interest, compiled
with much skill and judgment The view which the writer gives of

ROBERTSON, OP BRIGHTON— continued.

Robertson, is, at the same time, in all probability, more true than that of Mr.
Brooke, and he judges him from a safer and a truer standpoint than that most

erratic theologian The autobiographical sketches which the writer

has brought together from Robertson's own works, are well chosen ; but more
interest attaches to the reminiscences of the gifted preacher which Mr. Arnold

has himself gathered during his stay at Brighton Mr. Arnold's volume

is one which may be safely recommended to the attention of all those who wish
to form a conception of the position which ' Robertson, of Brighton ' held among
our English clergy, and his present biographer has done well in recognizing the
errors as well as the merits of a man who was, however much we may differ
from him in many respects, a remarkable man." — John Bull.

All admirers of the Rev. F. W. Robertson will welcome the Rev. F. Arnold's
Robertson, of Brighton ' as throwing fresh light on his character and surroundings
Mr. Arnold brings into this work an interesting description

of Brighton as it was a generation ago ; also some account of Robertson's
contemporaries, devoting a whole chapter to that of his friendship for and
influence over Lady Byron." — Leeds Mercury.

"It is impossible not to be interested in 'Robertson, of Brighton; with
some Notices of his Times and Contemporaries,' by the Rev. Frederick Arnold.
Notwithstanding Mr. Stafford Brooke's admirable biography there was still room
for a supplement like this, full of small facts and probable conjectures, the outcome
of much genuine research and devotion. Mr. Arnold has been fortunate
in meeting several of Robertson's personal friends, and from these he has
gleaned many slight but characteristic anecdotes. He is able also to explain the
financial position of Trinity Chapel while Robertson held the incumbency." —
Guardian.

Surely it ought to be interesting to read the history of such a man

His biographer has been able to show us what he was in all his varied moods.
We are truly thankful for this entertaining and instructive contribution to our
biographical literature." — Christian Commonwealth.

With loving, sedulous ardour he analyses Mr. Robertson's Sermons, pointing

out numerous passages in which the personal element is strikingly present

The main source, however, to which the author is indebted, is the reminiscences
ot Robertson he has himself gathered from persons in and about Brighton, who
knew and admired him, and some of whom enjoyed his personal friendship.
The charm of the book is in these reminiscences. A vast number of facts which
escaped the knowledge of Brooke, unfolding views of Robertson's character and
genius hitherto unknown to the public, are, as it were, here snatched from the
oblivion to which they were fast rushing, and added to the literary heritage of
mankind. For the diligence with which Mr. Arnold has collected these facts,
and the skill with which he has used them, we are largely his debtors. The
admirers of Robertson will find this book much more fascinating than his Life,
and that it gives them a much larger and richer conception of the man ; and
whether they agree or differ with the author in his criticisms of Robertson's
theological teaching, they will thank him for the delight, and stimulus, and
enlargement of view, his book has afforded them'" —Primitive Methodist
Magazine.

The style is sensible ; clear, some of the criticisms and fair strictures on

Robertson, OF BBIGILTO^— continued.

Kobertson's views and expressions of them are intelligent, and the work is at
once sympathetic and just." — Scotsman.

We are glad to testify that Mr. Arnold has given us something which none
who cherish a reverent admiration for the great Brighton prophet will receive
without gratitude. Mr. Arnold has evidently been gathering notes, impressions,
and recollections of Kobertson for some considerable time. He lived in
Brighton for nearly seven years, and made the acquaintance of many persons
who knew Mr. Robertson. He has made a very felicitous use of much of the
material thus collected, and certainly we get much additional information
concerning a good and great man of whom the world will not tire of hearing or

of reading for many a long year to come The author has taken a very

great deal of pains by way of seeking for any kind of light which could increase
his knowledge of the man concerning whom he writes. His acquaintance with
Brighton, Oxford, and Cheltenham has been sufficient to enable him to write
with much personal interest about three of the places in which Kobertson
exercised his ministry; and he visited Winchester forte purpose of completing
an acquaintance with all the spheres in which that wonderful young man fulfilled
his vocation. Of every place there is something interesting to tell; and

Mr. Arnold is sympathetic with both the places and the preacher We

nave been mach interested in the perusal of a volume which, from first to last,
does not include one dull page." — Literary World.

There was more than one reason why a new Life of Robertson should be
written to supplement the • masterly work ' of Mr. Stafford Brooke, as Mr.
Arnold calls it ; and this book is a good and useful one. Its interest, however,
lies quite as much in the notices of Robertson's contemporaries as in the study
of the principal figure. The biographer admires his hero, but without blindness
to his faults of intellect, some of which nearly approach to moral defects." —
St. James's Gazette.

Mr. Arnold's chief object has been to bring out the individuality of the
man, rather than to dwell on the characteristics of the preacher. this book is
full of anecdotes and reminiscences, and will be appreciated not only by the
enthusiastic admirers of Robertson, but by the general reader, who may take
our word that it is not dull." — London Figaro.

"Robertson's personal memory may in the nature of things, become dim
and distant — the preacher, the thinker, cannot die. His influence may be said
to have been world-wide. On those who were brought under is personal
influence the impression he made was never effaced. A write in ' Scribe '
records that once travelling in the South of France he met a wild, revolutionary,
unbelieving surgeon, on his way to join the army in Mexico, and knowing that
the writer was a clergyman, he asked if he knew aught of Robertson ; he had
read his sermons, and they had powerfully affected him, Next day the writer
met Augustin Cochin, a devout Catholic, who asked for particulars about ' an
extraordinary preacher — one Frederick Robertson.' All schools quoted him,
all creeds felt m him a magnet of spiritual attraction." — Cheltenham Chronicle.

An Tron-behind City ; or, Five Months

OF PERIL AND PRIVATION. By John Augustus
O'Shea, author of " Leaves from the Life of a Special
Correspondent." 2 vols., crown 8vo., cloth. 21s.

Punch says :

A Sort of peril, adventure, privation,

Is told, in two vols., to your great delectation,

With shrewd common sense and uncommon sensation !

Here's the painful account of Parisians defeated :

And Paris besieged is most " specially" treated :

Like a trusty Tapley, bright, hopeful, and witty,

O'Shea tells the tale of " An Iron-bound City."

♦'A most entertaining book." — World.

A continuation of the well-known ' Leaves from the Life of a Special
Correspondent.' It tells in the same vein, with equal humour, the story of the
sixteenth investment the gay French capital has stood in ancient and modern
times, with the long story of privation, misrule, and bloodshed marking its
course. The outlines of this painful history of folly most of us know. It
has formed themes for editions de luxe and cheap issues until there can hardly
be any one within the three kingdoms unfamiliar with its main features. Mr.
O'Sbea supplies colour and incident, filling up the framework of history from
his own abundant store of anecdote and amiable humour. His pictures of the

effects wrought by modern shell-fire are startling in their vividness

The book deserves a large measure of praise ; it is even more absorbing than
its predecessors." — Daily Telegraph.

We can listen with unsated interest to the oft-told tale of the fall of Paris

when it is told by so genial and sunny-minded an historian We have

not attempted any chronological or elaborate analysis of Mr. O'Shea's book ;
but we hope that our very cursory notice of it may induce many persons to
read it for themselves, and from its pages to refresh their memories of the most
momentous and interesting siege of modern times." — Saturday Review.

' An Iron-bound City ' is peculiarly interesting. Mr. O'Shea has the
pen of a ready writer, and it would be strange indeed if, with the
wealth of amusing, grim, and striking incident which accompanied the
siege of Paris, he had failed to produce an exceptionally interesting work.
As a matter of fact, ' An Iron-bound City ' is as brimful of exciting and
engrossing matter as the most sensational romance, while at the same
time it is rich in the momentous and important facts that go to make up
history. And the author is equally at home whether gossiping of the straits
and shifts which lent a grimly comical side to the situation, or dealing in
vigorous, graphic language with the sterner features of the siege. It would be
difficult to imagine a more vivid picture of a beleaguered city than that painted
by Mr. O'Shea's practised pen, and I commend the work to you most heartily,
sure that you will endorse my high opinion of it. It is given to few to enjoy
such curious experiences as Mr. O'Shea, and to fewer still to describe them with
such unaffected eloquence, and the public owe him a distinct debt for so
interesting and valuable a contribution to contemporary history." — Society.

AN lEON-BOUND CITY— continued.

*' We are loath to quit a work which is more fascinating than any novel, and
jet bears internal evidence in every page of a rigid adherence to truth, without
letting the reader into the secret that it is not always sad or stern." — Universe.

John Augustus O'Shea is not an ordinary mortal, and his style is so
peculiarly his own that the reader soon forgets the past in the engrossing interest
with which he turns over the pages of the volume before us. . . . While our
friend, the impressionable, hot-headed but kind-hearted O'Shea was starving
in Paris, the writer of this review was living on the fat of the land within the
German lines. . . . We have not found a dull page in the book." — A dmircdty
and Horseguards Gazette.

There has been a great deal said and written in England lately about the
best hundred books for men to read. We might shorten the matter by recommending
one which that versatile ' Special Correspondent ' has just produced as
worth at least any fifty that could be named. No man ever sat down, pen in hand,
to give point to the superiority of truth in point of strangeness over fiction, who
could do it more agreeably and racily. His mind and his note-book are a perfect
store-house of odd facts and historical reminiscences. The chronicles show no
bias. They neither extenuate the faults of the French nor set down aught in
malice against the Teutons." — United Ireland.

Two highly interesting volumes. . He not only treats of the dry facts
of the siege, but his account is interspersed with numerous interesting anecdotes
and episodes extracted from his diary. His style of writing throughout is light
and pleasant, and his descriptions of the sortie of the 19th November and of
starving Paris at the end of the siege are particularly vivid and thrilling." —
Vanity Fair.

swill be eagerly seized upon by those who revelled in Mr. O'Shea's last
book. . . . Every page is interesting. Mr. O'Shea succeeds in giving life to
the driest details of military manoeuvres." — St. Stephen's Review.

'• Despite the grim casualties which his subject compels him to depict, the
writing is in the author's usual style, one that is exceedingly pleasant, cheerful,
and readable." — Court Journal.

Leaves from the Life of a Special Correspondent.

By John Augustus O'Shea. Two vols.,
crown 8vo., with a Portrait of the Author. 21s.

"A choice medley of jovial, witty, hair-brained, fascinating anecdotes about
the great historical and social events of the past decade, and the distinguished
and notorious men Mr. O'Shea has met in that time." — Aberdeen
Journal.

Mr. O'Shea has shown himself a workman needing not to be ashamed.
The stories of some of the earlier events of the Franco-Prussian War, and
of the imprisonment in besieged Paris, are thoroughly well told." — Academy.

LEAVES FROM THE LIFE OF A SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT— conitnu^rf.

Eminently readable. . . . There is hardly a dull page in it. . . . His
generosity and good temper are inexhaustible." — Athenaeum.

The graphic and powerful writing is by no means the only feature of
the work; for the anecdotes are good, and there is a prevailing feeling of
the writer being in bright, cheerful spirits (which are imparted to his readers),
while, above all, there is a kindly word for everyone." — Court Journal,

Personal, audaciously but not offensively personal, Mr. O'Shea is never
tiresome ; nor is there a particle of gall in his gossiping recollections." — Daily
Telegraph,

Glowing with a rich, broad, and boisterous humour, which those who
are familiar with Mr. O'Shea's style always expect and never fail to find," —
Freeman's Journal.

We cordially recommend these lively and entertaining volumes to readers
of all tastes." — Illustrated Sporting and Dramatic News.

The fund of amusing anecdote and personal reminiscences with which this
work abounds embraces a crowd of individuals and a series of events amply
sufficient to ensure the success of any number of ' Leaves ' when discoursed of
in the peculiarly entertaining style of the author." — Morning Advertiser.

'• The freshest and pleasantness collection of desultory reminiscences. . . .
Every page has its anecdote, like a sip of champagne." — Catholic World.

Punch says :
Ob bright and lively is O'Shea — that is, this John Augustus is —
His book as bright and lively as the author, who may trust us, is ;
He discourse of Napoleon, tobacco, and philology ;
Of Paris and of pugilists. Lord Wolsey and zoology ;
Of (damietta and of Calcraft, of cookery and quackery;
Of SiNNETT and balloons, of Sala and of Thackeray !
With ' special ' journeys to and fro, direct, delayed, and roundabout :
For here and there and everywhere this Special loves to bound about !
With most things he is conversant, from monkey unto mineral —
And talks on warlike matters like a modern Major-general !"

'• It may at once be said these reminiscences of a Special Correspondent's
career afford extremely easy and amusing reading ; that there are not many
dull pages in them ; and that not seldom there are descriptive strokes
and sketches of men and events that are worthy of permanent preservation." —
Scotsman.

Redolent of stories throughout, told with such a cheery spirit, in so genial
a manner, that even those they sometimes hit hard cannot, when they
read, refrain from laughing, for Mr. O'Shea is a modem Democritus; and yet
there runs a vein of sadness, as if, like Figaro, he made haste to laugh
lest he should have to weep." — Society.

LEAVES From THE LIFE OF A SPECIAL Correspondent— con^tnu<fd.

•' The great charm of his pages is the entire absence of dulness and
the evidence they afford of a delicate sense of humour, considerable powers
of observation, a store of apposite and racy anecdote, and a keen enjoyment of
life." — Standard.

One of the liveliest and best books of its kind that I have read. Mr.
O'Shea seems in his day to have been everywhere under the sun, and to have
seen everything and everybody of importance." — Western Morning News.

Delightful reading. . A most enjoyable book. . It is kinder
to readers to leave them to find out the good things for themselves. They will
find material for amusement and instruction on every page ; and if the lesson
is sometimes in its way as melancholy as the moral of Firman Mallard's ' Les
Derniers Schemes,' it is conveyed after a fashion that recalls the light-hearted
gaiety of Paul de Rock's ' Demoiselle du Cinquieme ' and the varied pathos and
humour of Henri Murder." — Whitehall Review.

Mr. O'Shea is vivacious and amusing. . . . His first volume is the most
interesting, with his sprightly recollections of Bohemian Paris. . . . Mr.
O'Shea kept some strange company in those days — English, French, Irish, of all
nationalities — and has some entertaining things to tell about most of them." —
World.

Royalty Restored; or, London Under

CHARLES II. By J. Fitzgerald Molloy, Author of
*' Court Life Below Stairs; or, London under the Georges*
&c. Two vols., large crown 8vo., with an Original Etching
of Charles IL, and eleven other portraits. 25s.

Mr. Molloy brings to his task a general admiration for his hero, to whose
faults, although he cannot deny them altogether, he is as blind as regard for
established facts will let him be. . . . Before leaving Mr. Molloy's book we
may say that he tells his story well, and that his style is fluent and agreeable.
Times.

The most important historical work yet achieved by its author

It has remained for a picturesque historian to achieve such a work in its entirety
and to tell a tale as it has never before been told." — Daily Telegraph.

A series of pictures carefully drawn, well composed, and correct in all
details. Mr. Molloy writes pleasantly, and his book is thoroughly entertaining.
' ' — Graphic.

"Presents us for the first time with a complete description of the social
habits of the period." — Globe.

We are quite prepared to recognise in it the brisk and fluent style, the
ease of narration, and other qualities of like nature, wbicn, as was pointed out
in this journal, characterized his former books." — Athenaeum.

Royalty KE Stored— continued.

Mr. Fitzgerald Molloy extenuates in nothing the heartless viciousness oi.
Charles's life, and the cold and even contempt of his pitiless dealing with the
long series of scandals of which history and art have perpetuated the memory,
points the moral of the story, without moralising, as sharply as can be desired.
At the same time, he is not tender to the preceding time, and he marshals some
stem facts against the notion that morals were at any high standard under the
Lord Protector, He does not like Cromwell, and he has found a congenial task
in the picturing of his death-bed. But it needs no retrospective partisanship
to make the last scene of Oliver's great life an awful one ; the recorded facts do
that sufficiently. There are three * natural ' deaths in English history on
which, we suppose, the least imaginative of readers must have sometimes dwelt infancy,
— those of Edward III., Elizabeth, and Cromwell. The sordid forsakenness
of the first, the ghastly grimness of the second, the spiritual strife of the
third, impress them on the memory. Briefly, but forcibly, Mr. Molloy depicts
the great man's death, the hurried burial, the tricked-out, Spanish-costumed,
purple cloaked, crowned effigy, the throng to the show, the public weariness of
it, the pelting of the escutcheon above the gate of Somerset House with mud,
after the immemorial manner of mobs, and the costly mock-funeral at

Westminster Abbey It is hard for us, in these unpicturesque and

unenthusiastic times, to imagine London en fete ; but picturing to ourselves the
comparatively little London to which Charles returned in triumph, we may get,
with the assistance of Mr. Fitzgerald Molloy's spirited and pictorial sketch,
some notion of the aspect of the capital when royalty was restored. The story
of Charles's marriage, of 'the prodigious dowry — about which there were so
many subsequent difficulties, and with regard to which the King behaved with
such gentlemanlike meanness that it is pleasant to know he did not get one
half of the money — of the young Queen's innocence of the ways of his world,
her wrongs, her sufferings , her brief resistance, her long, lamentable acquiescence,
her unfailing love, is well told in this book. Whenever, in its pages, we catch
sight of Catherine, it is a relief from the vile company that crowds them, the
shameless women and the contemptible men on whom ' the fountain of honour '
lavished distinctions, which ought from thenceforth to have lost all meaning
and attraction for honest folk. The author has studied his subjects with care
and industry ; he reproduces them either singly or in groups, with vivid and
stirring effect ; the comedy and the tragedy of the Court-life move side by side

in his chapters A chapter on the Plague is admirable, — impressive

without any fine writing; the description of the Fire is better still. To Mr.
Molloy's narrative of the Titus Oates episode striking merit must be accorded ;
also to the closing chapter of the work with its picture of the hard death of
King Charles." — Spectator.

Mr. J.^ Fitzgerald Molloy makes a remarkable advance beyond his preceding
works in style and literary method. His book, which is the best, may very
well be the last on the subject. . . . The shrewdness, the cynicism, and
the profound egotism of the Merry Monarch are dexterously conveyed in this
picture of him, and the book is variously and vividly interesting." — World.

The author of ' Royalty Restored ' has never offered the public so graphic,
so fascinating, so charming an example of faded lives revivified, and dimmed
scenes revitalized by the magic of the picturesque historic sense." — Boston
Literary World.

Royalty Restored— continued.

*' He has told his tale with skill and clearness, and his work is sufficient to
put the facts before a reader who may require the information, or may not before
have examined that portion of his country's history. The period is not one
that most people would care to turn to frequently without some special purpose,
for it is on the whole the most discreditable in the annals of England. To any
who seek to turn over this sickly page of the national story, Mr. Molly gives it
in sufficiently connected form." — Queen.

Mr. Molloy has not confined himself to an account of the King and his
courtiers. He has given us a study of London during his reign, taken, as far as
possible, from rare and invariably authentic sources." — Glasgow Evening News

In his delineation of Charles, Mr. Molloy is very successful. . . . He
avoids vivid colouring; yet rouses our interest and sympathy with a skilful
hand." — St. James's Gazette.

'swill be greedily devoured as a palatable dish by such as have an appetite
for the intrigues and follies of Courts, as well as by those who just sufficiently
love English History to study it in a free-and-easy, desultory fashion." — Modern
Society.

The Unpopular King : The Life and

TIMES OF Richard III. By Alfred 0. Legge,
F.C.H.S. Two vols., demy 8vo., with an Etched Portrait
of Richard III., and Fifteen other Illustrations. sos.

•• The labour you have bestowed on this portion of English history is a proof
of your sincerity, of your love of truth. I have not much faith in the accuracy
of what we term history, and am prepared to believe that much that we learn
under that name is not greatly better than fiction. You have had access to
much new matter, and your labour may have the effect of displacing some of the
old legends in which we have been taught to believe." — John Bright.

The romance of Richard's life is still one of the most fascinating of English
historical episodes, and in Mr. Legge's book the story loses none of its charms.
We are carried forward from event to event, from place to place, with a vigour

which enhances greatly the pleasure of reading These two goodly

volumes, with excellent illustrations, abound in matters of deep interest." — The
Antiquary.

*' It is impossible to read it without enlarging to a great extent one's knowledge
of an important period. Indeed, it is scarcely too much to say that every student
of the latter Plantagenet period must refer to these pages." — Illustrated London
News.

THE Unpopular KmG— continued.

*' The most important of recent contributions to the history of Englautl, and
one of the most curiously fascinating of historical narrative." — Manchester
Examiner.

These two volumes represent an enormous amount of laborious and
conscientious research into the known histories of Eichard III., and Mr. Legge
has unearthed a document hitherto, we believe, unpublished, among the papers
in possession of the Duke of Devonshire. As we have said, a great deal of
valuable labour has been bestowed on the preparation of this book, and such
labour is never bestowed in vain Those who read the book, and they are likely
to be many, will possess themselves of a large collection of information about
England in the times of Richard III., whether they agree with Mr. Legge's
opinion and accept his conclusions or not." — Manchester Courier.

Mr. Legge is entitled to the credit of bringing forward much that is new
and that tells in favour of Richard. His task is accomplished with much care.
The book is a welcome contribution to the study of an epoch and character
which will form subjects of lasting controversy." — Notes and Queries.

Mr. Legge has given us a very interesting book. He writes with vigour
and spirit, sometimes almost with eloquence." — John Bull.

If Mr. Alfred Legge fails to convince the English people — or those who
have the good fortune to peruse his very able work — that Richard the Third
has been shamefully traduced, it is certain that no one else need ever attempt
the task of vindicating the reputation of ' The Unpopular King.'
A most valuable contribution to contemporary literature." — Figaro.

A thoughtful, clever, and highly interesting study of one of the most complex
and curious characters in the history of our country, and a graphic picture
of the period in which he lived. The work is an interesting and valuable contribution
to historical literature." — Society.

These volumes give a graphic picture of England at the close of the
fifteenth century, and Mr. Legge's style is a remarkably good style — fluent,
correct, incisive, and graceful. He deserves great credit for the pains he has
taken to clear up many an ' historic doubt.' " — Topical Times.

It is impossible to read the story he tells with so much power and discrimination
without coming to the conclusion that, after all, the ' Unpopular
King ' exhibited traces of virtue rare in his age and not too common in our
own. The work is interesting throughout, and is a welcome and valuable
addition to the literature of a period in which so much was done for weal and
woe in England." — Leeds Mercury.

His frequent references to official documents, patents, and such like, among
the Harleigh MSS., bear out his account of his researches among imprinted
materials ; and he has moreover had the advantage of consulting a contemporary
MS. of great interest in the library at Hard wick Hall, to which no former writer
has referred." — Saturday Review.

Japanese Life, Love, and Legend:

A VISIT TO THE Empire OF THE RISING SUN.
(From the French of Maurice Dubard.) By William Conn.
Crown 8vo., cloth. 7s. 6d.

How charmingly irrepressible is the bold boulevards ! How impossible he
finds it anywhere to escape his own sequacious personality ! Wherever he goes,
Ilium in Italian portant,' he carries with him Paris in his own bosom. He
discovers in Tahiti a kind of enlarged and glorified Chateau des Fleurs ;
he sees in Yokohama a Japanese variant on the Champs Elysees and the
Bois de Bologna. . . . M. Dubard goes over once mere the familiar
ground of all recent far-Eastern travellers, and succeeds in conveying
very prettily to the reader's mind the now stereotyped picture of an idyllic,
impossible, Utopian Japan. He takes us behind the scenes of family life ;
shows us afresh the pleasant but, alas ! incredible unanimity of the Japanese
household. Nobody would by any possibility call it dull ; and if it lacks
strict historical and scientific precision it makes up for all that by Marcel
and o-hara. . . . Mr. Conn's English repos somewhat more like our native
language than that of 99 per cent among the awesome herd of translators from
the French. If we mistake not, indeed, he has freely edited rather than
merely translated his author ; and this is at least many times better than the
common and slovenly modern habit of simply transliterating him." — Pall Mall
Gazette.

* Japanese Life, Love, and Legend ' has certainly a flavour of Chateaubriand
about it, and reminds usforciblyof Kane or of Tala. Mr. Conn has
done well to place M. Dubard's book before the public in an English dress.
Our countrymen as a rule are incapable of that sympathetic observation of the
inner life of Orientals which we find here." — GrajMc.

"the volume is thoroughly interesting : and the author is evidently at
home in those scenes of Japanese middle-class life which he delights to portray.
Possibly the colors are a trifle brighter than those of nature, even in the land of
the rising sun ; for the author enjoyed himself exceedingly, and the gay-hearted
Gaul knows nothing of faint praise." — St. James's Gazette.

•' Japan is the fashion ; and the very captivating volume ' Japanese Life,
Love, and Legend ' will add a great deal to the stock of information upon
the subject within the reach of those who sit at home at ease. Many
authors have written of Japan, its arts, and its history ; but in this book we
have a light-hearted traveller, who knows the vie intime of the people, giving his
impressions and experiences in the spirit of a candid historian. He writes
of the domestic life of the Japanese, their manners and customs. He is
learned in all their ways, from making silk to making love. He visits their
families, their theatres, (and goes behind the scenes), their factories, and their
temples. Nothing is sacred to him, and he delivers himself without restraint
of all he has heard and seen in the Empire of the Rising Sun. He is a
rare gossip." — Life.

The idea of weaving a love story into an ordinary book of travel is ingenious
and telling. . . . The writer has seen much that every traveller in Japan tells
oi; much, too, that other travellers have doubtless seen, but from motives of

JAPANESE LIFE, LOVE, AND LEGEND— continued.

delicacy have left untold. There are, however, no striking adventures or
passages of unusual power to make the name of the book. Some interesting
Japanese legends are woven into the narrative, which may fairly hope to take a
high place among the lighter travel-books of the season"— Yorkshire Post.

The narrative portion is bright and attractive, and the ending of the love
story is natural and pathetic. The description of places and persons gives
the reader a vivid account of the manners and customs and beauties of the
country. The legends which are introduced are told in an interesting style, and
are well worth reading for their own sake. The book thoroughly deserves
success. We may add that though the work is a translation, it is done so
effectively that few would imagine it to be a French book in an English dress,
the binding is tasteful and in harmony with the subject." — Sheffield Daily
Telegraph.

The author is to be congratulated on giving the public so charming
an account of the various phases of Japanese life, love, and legend. It is a
treat to be able to take up a book and find the interest in it so well sustained
from beginning to end. The description of the daily life of the
Japanese in all its details is excellently portrayed, and the love story of
o-hara is full of charm. The book contains a vivid description of the
various places visited, with the different legends connected therewith, and
the manners and customs of the people. We have no hesitation in recommending
it to our readers as one of the best published of its kind." —
Admiralty and Horse Guards Gazette.

Victor Hugo : His Life and Work.

By G. Barnett Smith. Author of "Poets and Novelists,"
** Shelley : a Critical Biography," &c. With an engraved
portrait of Victor Hugo. Crown 8vo., cloth. 6s.

•• Excellent. Mr. Smith tells the story of a brilliant but chequered career in
his easy manner and with sympathetic discrimination." — 2'tm^s.

•' The only book which relates the full story of Hugo's life. He has produced
a book that was very much wanted, and the volume is one which no
English student of "Victor Hugo can afford to overlook." — North British Mail.

A swift and incisive review that is at once entertaining, instructive and
popular"— Lio?/d's.

The book is unique. Notwithsl-anding the multitude of criticisms which
have appeared in our own and other languages upon Hugo's work, this is the
only volume which relates the full story of his life. We have pleasure in
recommending Mr. Barnett Smith's volume as the fullest and in every way
most satisfactory on its subject that has yet appeared in England'" — the
Christian Leader.

VICTOR HUGO: HIS LIFE AND WORK— continued.

'* It is clear and succinct, and contains nearly everything it is requisite for
the average English reader to know about the illustrious Frenchman. As a
record of his literary and dramatic work it is remarkable for well-ordered completeness,
while the account of Hugo in exile is free from the common errors
which have disfigured the narratives of the majority of those who have dealt
with the subject." — Topical Times.

Well deserves to be read; we are told all that is needful to know about
him"' — Tablet.

•' The volume under notice is not a hurried and superficial biography.
. . This well written account of his life." — Morning Post.

An Apology for the Life of the Bight

HON. W. E. GLADSTONE ; OR, THE NEW
POLITICS. Crown 8vo., cloth. 7s 6d.

*' One of the most comprehensive and powerful indictments against Mr.
Gladstone that has ever been issued." — England.

This great man's shortcomings are mercilessly analysed and justly
ridiculed in a clever and amusing volume that has reached a second edition.
An Apology for the Life of the Right Hon. W. E. Gladstone ; or the New
Politics.' It is one of the most really funny books we have met with for a longtime,
but for all that its purpose is a serious one'" — John Bull.

*' This is a cruel piece of work. The writer's accuracy is quite unimpeachable,
and he has collected his facts with such industry, and marshalled
them with such skill, that the book would have been crushing if Mr. Gladstone
had any reputation to lose." — Vanity Fair.

A clever, if fierceness, account of the life of the ex-Premier, judged from
a Conservative point of view, with a rather scathing commentary on his sayings
and doings from the year of his birth, compiled by the journalist who wrote
Letters to my Son, Herbert.' To Conservatives this volume will be a perfect
mine of information." — Publishers'' Circular.

Partly biographical and partly satirical, this is a very clever production."
Edinburgh Courant.

The author of the book pursues Mr. Gladstone pitilessly throughout his
political career, every event of which he causes either to adorn a tale or to point
a moral. The book distorts nothing and conceals nothing." — Bristol Times and
Mirror.

Russia Under the Tears. By Stepniak,

Author of "Underground Russia." Translated by William
Stall. Third Edition, crown 8vo., cloth. Os.

*• Excessively interesting "We would bear the most cordial

testimony to the excellence of Stepniak's work"— Times.

His vivid and absorbing book should be read and pondered by everyone
who appreciates the blessings of liberty." — Daily Telegraph.

He exposes the hideous police system, he tells us the secrets of the House
of Preventive Detection, of the central prisons, and the Troubetzkoi Ravelin,
and gives us graphic sketches of exile life on the shores of the White Sea and in

the bagnios of Siberia For all who would form an adequate idea of

the present condition of Russia, gauge its capacity for war, or attempt to
forecast its future, Stepniak's work is indispensable." — Spectator.

"A remarkable work, and it appears at a most opportune moment. . . .
The state of things in Russian prisons, so far as political prisoners are
concerned, as revealed by Stepniak, is hideous, if it be true. If it be untrue
the Russian Government ought, for its own honour's sake, to refute his statements
What he describes is terrible." — Athenaeum.

Thrilling pictures of the terrors of prison life Tourgenieff

and Stepniak, indeed, illustrate one another. Naturally the novelist tells
nothing of the worst side, the life in a Yakout hut for instance (fancy the
flower of a nation being brutalized by treatment of that kind) ; the riot
produced in a Siberian prison that the governor may account for several escapes,
due to gross negligence, by saying that 'the rules were too easy;' the hunger
strikes — prisoners starving themselves to death ; the coarse tyranny with its
petty tortures. . It is, of course, as interesting as a novel. We fear its
thrilling details are true as well as interesting." — Graphic.

A striking book, which appears opportunely at a time when Europe iB
occupied in watching the beginning of another stage of her development.
Stepniak writes with a vigour and passion which must command attention." —
Melbourne Argus.

Court Life BeJoiv Stairs : or, London

UNDER THE FOUR GEORGES. By J. Fitzgerald
Molly. Author of " Royalty Restored." 2 vols, crown
8 vo., cloth. 3 2s.

Mr. Molloy's style is crisp, and carries the reader along ; his portraits of
the famous men and women of the time are etched with care, and his narrative
rises to intensity and dramatic impressiveness as he follows the latter days of
Queen Caroline." — British Quarterly Review.

Mr. Molloy's style is bright and fluent, picturesque and animated, and he
tells his stories with unquestionable skill and vivacity." — Athenaeum.

COURT LIFE BELOW ST Aries— continued.

'• The narrative is fluent and amusing, and is far more instructive than nine-tenths
of the novels published nowadays." — St. James's Gazette.

Mr. Molloy's narrative is concise, and exhibits a wide acquaintance with
the men and manners of the age. The anecdotes of the famous men of fashion,
wits, fools, or knaves introduced are amusing, and several not generally known
enliven the pages." — Morning Post.

Well written, full of facts bearing on every subject under consideration, and
abounding with anecdotes of gay and witty debauchees." — Daily Telegraph.

What Pepys has done for the Stuart, Mr. Molloy has done for their
Hanoverian successors. This result of his arduous investigations is one of the
most interesting works which has ever come under our notice. It is impossible
to open the books atany part without feeling an overpowering desire to continue
the-j^exMBdl.'''— 'Newcastle Chronicle.

Songs from the Novelists ; from

ELIZABETH TO VICTORIA. Edited, and with introduction
and notes, by W. Davenport Adams. Printed in
brown ink on Dutch hand-made paper. Bound in illuminated
parchment, rough edges, gilt top. Cap 4to. 12s. 6d.

*' A volume of exceptional interest Marvellously comprehensive,

and, to a great extent, breaks up new ground The interest of the

volume is inexhaustible." — Globe.

A handsome volume for the drawing-room table. A splendid book, useful
and ornamental The publishers as well as the Editor have displayed
perfect taste in the production of the work." — Life.

It has been a happy thought, and so far as our recollection allows us to
suppose, it is an original one, to collect the lyrics interspersed in English, prose
fiction. The dainty volume is the painstaking compilation of Mr. W. Davenport
Adams." — Daily Telegraph.

"A happy idea occurred to Mr. Davenport Adams when he determined to collect
from the pages of English novels, dating from Elizabeth to Victoria, a series of
representative songs. The resort of his labours is a volume containing over one
hundred and twenty poetic ge or. many of which are of such beauty and worth
that one can hardly forbear the (questions Why has it not been done before?
Probably no one has hitherto (edited our English novelists with the possession
of sufficient poetic genius, and ii', in some standard work of fiction, an odd verse
or so should find its way into the author's accustomed prose, it has not met

with much attention or respect on the part of the reader To most

people this publication will come as a revelation." — Morning Point.

Philosophic in The Kitchen : General

HINTS ON FOODS AND DRINKS. By the Author
of" The Reminiscences of an Old Bohemian," &c. Crown
8vo., cloth. 8s. 6d.

The most recommendable book on cookery that has been published
in England for many long days." — Saturday Review.

The recipes in the Old Bohemian's ' Philosophy in the Kitchen ' makes
one's mouth water." — Graphic.

*' The Old Bohemian is a cordon hlni, among cooks, and a capital raconteur.
Hi chapter on salads alone is worth the price of the book." — Lady.

"A racy, chatty, and instructive book." — Scotsman.

"A remarkable book, cleverly written, full of thought and brimming
over with original suggestions." — British Confectioner.

*• Excellent recipes, some of which are absolutely new." — Figaro.

"Will quickly take its place among the culinary standards of Brilliant-Savarin,
Letter, Fin Bee, Tegetmeier, and the no less able, but more desultory, George
Augustus Sala." — Practical Confectioner.

An amusing cookery-book, probably the only one in the language.
To housekeepers who are not above taking valuable pints as to the preparation
of food, to those who look upon eating and drinking as the chief ends of
life, and to all and sundry who like useful information none the less because it
is lightened with genial gossip and spiced with sparkling anecdote, ' Philosophy
in the Kitchen ' is a book we can recommend." — Spectator.

Sets forth the conclusion with regard to meat and drink of one who
has had many opportunities, and has used them wisely and well. He is a prophet
to whom the dyspeptic may listen on occasion with pleasure, and of whom the
haughtiest plain cook may learn certain virtues of practice. His remarks on the
distillation of coffee are such as should be read in every kitchen." — Athenaeum.

Full of useful and sensible advice to cooks and their accomplices; and receipt
after receipt, blended with anecdotes new and old, take this volume out of the
usual run of cookery-books." — Chemist and Druggist.

Folk and Fairy Tales. By Mrs. Button

Harrison. With Twenty-four original whole page Illustrations
by Walter Crane. In pictorial cloth case specially
designed by Walter Crane. Gilt edges. 7s. 6d.

"Messrs. Ward and Downey have, in 'Folk and Fairy Tales,' by Mrs.
Burton Harrison, earned the gratitude of the youngsters, for the fairy stories
are all good, well written, and excellently illustrated"— Fanif?/ Fair.

FOLK AND FAIRY Tales— continued.

Mr. Crane's prettiest pictures. . . The stories are well told and entertaining."
— Saturday Review.

Regis is Mrs. Burton Harrison's hero, a lonely little boy in a big house, surrounded
by any number of servants, a not too kind governess, and a papa who is too
busy in his business to find time to pet Regis. In fact, in the house everything
seems to be out sympathy with child-nature. But it is not so. The items of bric-O'
brae that lie about the drawing-room are moved to speech ; some eighteen
pieces each tell a story, befitting its caste and country. In this way a ' Russian
Tea-urn ' relates in a new form the story of ' Masinissa, the Wise,' the ' Three
Silver Feathers,' aversion of an old Welsh Romance; the 'Arabian Pipe,' a
resetting from the ' Arabian Nights ;^ the ' Norwegian Wedding Crown,' a story
from the Norse ; and so on throughout the book. But Mrs, Burton Harrison's
resenting of these twice-told tales are entertaining ; she has the gift of telling a
story so that it will catch a child's ear, and that in my opinion, is among
writers a rare accomplishment. It should commend the book not only to every
nursery and schoolroom but to all such as delight in reminiscences of their age
of pinafores. The four-and-twenty pictures from Mr. Walter Crane's pen that
illustrate the stories should not be passed over without a word of praise. Mr.
Walter Crane is a mannerist, but his mannerisms are invariably refined and
artistic. In the illustrations to Mrs. Harrison's book he has given play to his
fancy, and the result is excellent. The pictures are above, in no small degree,
the ordinary type of book illustrations. Mr. Walter Crane has produced
nothing to equal them since he published his delightful ' Grimm,' in 1882." —
Pictorial World.

Hans Andersen, of course, is the master of this kind of story telling, and
we cannot read any book of this sort without thinking of him ; but Mrs. Burton
Harrison is a very apt and skilful disciple, and there are not a few of these —
they number some twenty altogether— which are well worthy of the magician
himself. Mr. Walter Crane secctids the author's pen most excellently with his
pencil." — Spectator.

Fortunate is the author whose book is illustrated by Mr. Walter Crane.
The matter it contains will at any ratfi be well recommended by the pictures
which accompany it. ' Folk and Fairy Tales ' by Mrs. Burton Harrison possess
this advantage, but it must also be said that they could very well stand alone
on their own merits. Mrs. Harrison has collected a number of fairy tales of
different countries, and has told them in a simple and attractive style. They
lie out of the beaten highways of fairy tales, and will be new to most readers ;
but they have the genuine ring of folklore about them. It will probably strike
even ardent admirers of Mr. Crane that the absence of colour has enabled him
to give freer scope to his imagination, and that the bright coloured picture
books by which he is so well known may tend by their readiness of effect to
hinder the exercise of the finer qualities of his art. These are abundantly
manifested in the beautiful drawings scattered through the volume."-^
Manchester Guardian.

It is many a long day since we have seen such a capital collection of stories
tor iittie people as Mrs. Burton Harrison's ' Folk and Fairy Tales,' a new

FOLK AND FAIRY Tales— continued.

budget from Fairyland just published by Messrs. Ward and Downey. The book
is illustrated with no end of pretty pictures by Mr. Walter Crane." — Lady.

♦' • Folk and Fairy Tales ' are welcomed with delight, and serve to restore
that lightness of heart which should never be absent from the young. The idea
of making the various objects in the room tell their tales to a little boy is not,
perhaps, quite original, if indeed such a thing as originality exists after so many
centuries ; but it is well carried out, and the pictures by Mr. Walter Crane are
drawn in a fanciful style, well suited to the text, and characteristic of the
artist." — Morning Post.

• " Both young and old lovers of fairy tales owe a debt of gratitude to Mrs.
Burton Harrison for the publication of this delightful volume. It consists of
the tales which were told to a companionless little boy by the very cosmopolitan
contents of his father's drawing-room. It kept up the writer of this notice
much later than his usual bedtime. The book is tastefully bound, and the
paper and printing is all that can be desired, while of the illustrations we need
only say that they are by Walter Crane. This is one of the most charming gift
books we have seen this season." — Sheffield Daily Telegraph.

This is really a splendid book for children, containing some twenty
captivating stories of just the right length, with an ample number of excellent
illustrations." — London Figaro.''^

The tales are exactly such as children love, and are told in a simple and
attractive manner. The book is handsomely bound and tastefully printed. The
design on the cover is very quaint and pretty." — Baysicater Chronicle.

Who doesn't revel in fairy tales ? They seem to charm us almost from
the cradle to the grave. No sooner does the mind arrive at the stage of
comprehension and the tongue can lisp a few words, the request is foremost,
Tell me a story !' In middle age it is much the same, although under another
form, and age loves to hear again the stories it heard in childhood. A delightful
collection has been formed by Mrs. Burton Harrison The idea is pretty. A
little boy in New York dreams that he is in the drawing-room when, to his
surprise, all the ornaments and curios scattered around are suddenly endowed
with powers of speech, and, after an amusing squabble among themselves, they
proceed to tell him strange tales of all countries. Thus ' Folk and Fairy Tales '
proves to be a most delightful gathering of legendary and fairy lore." — Lady's
Pictorial.

The book is profusely illustrated with good woodcuts from drawings by
Walter Crane, and taking it all in all, it ought to be a welcome Christmas gift
to the young ones for whom it has been published." — Freeman's Journal.

The scheme of the author, whose ' Old-fashioned Fairy Tales,' of last year
we have not forgotten, is the one familiar to all readers of Hans Andersen, of
making a number of inanimate objects tell the story of their former life or of
their own country to a child. In this case, the objects are not the worn-out
playthings of a Scandinavian cottage, but the bric-a-hrac of ' a spacious house in
upper Fifth Avenue.' Mr. Walter Crane has evidently taken great pains over
the illustrations, which reach a uniformly high standard." — Academy.

MR. B. L. FARJEON's RECENT NOVELS.

In a Silver Sea. Second Edition. 3 vols.
Crown 8vo. 31s. 6d.

Those who commence it will become more and more interested, be unable
to put it down until they've finished the third volume, and then will breathe
again, and be inclined to wonder how on earth it was they have been so spellbound.
For it is a quaint, weird, thrilling, mysterious, nightmare work, like
a screen of fantastic scraps put together with some sort of mysterious purpose,
rivetting attention, and exciting curiosity. Occasionally the jerky dialogue
recalls Victor Hugo's style, especially in ' Homme qui Rit.' ' In a Silver Sea '
may be classed with ' Treasure Island,' ' In a Glass Darkly,' ' Uncle Silas,'
King Solomon's Mines.' . . . The creepiest creepers have been Mr. Le
Fan's. But Mr. Farjeon has run him very near, and thrown in a touch of
Hugoesque dialogue into the bargain." — Punch.

The Sacred Nugget. Fourth Edition. Crown
8vo. 6s.

The story is so interesting as to force one to turn over over the pages with
something like real excitement." — Athencewn.

Great Porter Square : A Mystery. Fifth

Edition. Crown 8vo. 6s.

"A masterpiece of realistic fiction." — Morning Post.

One of the cleverest and most fascinating stories of the day." — Society.

The House of White Shadows. Third

Edition. Crown 8vo. 6s.
A genuine bit of romance powerfully told." — The World.
An ably-written, interesting, even engrossing tales— Saturday Review.

Grief: a Story of Australian Life. Picture

boards. 2s.

One of the best stories he has produced, and full of highdramaticinterest."
Scotsman.

MR. F. C. PHILIPS' RECENT WORKS OF FICTION.

A Liichj Young Woman. 3 vols. Crown

8vo. 31s. 6d.

The author of ' As in a Looking-Glass ' has followed up his success with'
another novel well adapted to hit the fancy of the modern novel reader. ' A
Lucky Young Woman ' is written in an easy, flowing style Mr. Philips'
racy though somewhat egotistical humour just suits the jaded palate of the
day." — Time.

There is something of the style of Henry Kingsley about this novel — a comparison
by which we mean a great compliment, for Henry Kingsley, when he
was in the humour, had a certain art of carrying the reader with him that few
novelists have surpassed." — Pall Mall Gazette,

The characters are crisply sketched, the touch is true and bold;
The story's fresh and full of go, and capitally told," — Punch.

*' It is impossible to praise Mr. Philips' style too highly ; it is brilliant, fall'
of colour, yet crisp and concise. He does not affect ordinary humour, but his

wit is incisive The tale runs smoothly from first chapter to last, and the-interest

is kept up to the end. ' A Lucky Young Woman ' is in short a brilliant
novel of the very best kind. It places the author in the first rank of English
novelista.''^ — St. Stephen's Review.

We can bestow unstinted praise on the unflagging spirit and genuine humour
with which Mr. Philips tells his story." — Athenaeum.

As in a Looking-GlaSS. With a Frontispiece
Gordon Browne. Fourth edition. Crown 8yo. 6s.

*' Clever beyond any common standard of cleverness." — Daily Telegraph.

Remarkably clever, full of sustained interest." — World.

There are ingenuity and originality in the conception of the book, and
power in its working out," — Scotsman.

A powerful tragedy, a portfolio of character sketches, and a diorama of
society scenes. Its characters are all real and living personages." — Globe.

"It will be praised here, censured there, and read eve y where ; for it is
unconventional and original, and in every sense a most attractive and remarkable
novel." — Life.

It shows abundant cleverness, much knowledge of some curious phases of
life, and a real insight into certain portions of that mysterious organ, the
female heart." — St. James's Gazette.

Mr. Philips' story' is a work of art, and, being much superior to the rough
sketches of an average novelist, it dis charges the true function of every work
of art by representing things as they actually are, and teaching the observer to
discriminate between appearances and realities." — Saturday Review.

Social Vicissitudes. Crown 8vo, 6s.

The smartest and most amusing set of sketches that has appeared since
Mrs. Linton lashed the Young Woman of the Period." — St. Stephen's Review,

Snow-hound at Eagle's. By Bret Harte.

Crown 8vo. Cloth. 2s. 6d.

' Snow-bound at Eagle's ' is in a somewhat gayer vein than most of Mr.
Bret Harte's longer stories. The scene is, as usual, laid in the far West, and
the effect of the story consists in the contrast between the wild life and the
civilization which lie so close together, and the Betting of it shows another fresh

bit of vigorously sketched landscape The characters are struck off

with the author's invariable precision, and the story is told with his own
inimitable terseness and careful avoidance of any reflections or descriptions
which do not make directly for the end he has in view. It is one of his
brightest and most readable stories." — Athenaeum.

In the character of Ned Falkner, Bret Harte has created the sort of man
who is best described as ' an archangel a little damaged,' which was Lamb's

description of Coleridge Force of circumstances turns Ned for the

nonce into a species of highwayman, and in that novel capacity he, with his
bosom friend George Lee, is ' snow-bound at Eagle's ' in the company of some
of the most fascinating women Bret Harte has yet created. The whole action
of the story takes place in about a fortnight, and the author skilfully shows how
much may happen in that brief space to make or mar a life." — Whitehall
Review.

Bret Harte's hand has clearly not forgot its cunning, and in ' Snow-bound
at Eagle's ' we have something in the old style of ' The Luck of Roaring Camp.'
. . . Well and vividly told ; and at some points the interest is intense.
It is Bret Harte all through, and often Bret Harte at his best." — Aberdeen
Journal.

A strongly sensational sketch of the characters of a couple of ' road
agents,' as highwaymen are called in the Far West. The author, in ibis
customary manner, and with all his old charm of style, points his moral that
there is some good in the worst of men, which developed itself under favourable
influences, and the manner m which the chance association with three good
women softens and ennobles the character of these two unprincipled men is
dealt with in a touching yet humorous fashion that is perfectly irresistible.
As in all the author's works the people and places are refreshingly unconventional,
and I have seldom read a book of his that I like more, although others
have more deeply touched me. You will agree with me that ' Snow-bound at
Eagle's ' is certainly a book to read more than once." — Society.

A delightful little novel The sketches of frontier life have all

the old power." — St. Rameses Gazette.

The story and the situations are entirely original The

dialogue serves to bring out the individuality of each character, a rare excellence.
The plot is natural, and the situations striking and suggestive. The word-painting
is a triumph of simplicity and literary instinct By all

lovers of literature, as well as by all readers of fiction, ' Snow-bound at
Eagle's ' will be enjoyed as containing some of its distinguished author's best
and most characteristic work." — Pictorial World

NEW SERIES OF SHILLING NOVELS.

■♦

Lady Valivorth^s Diamonds. By the Author

** A Mental Struggle."

A Prince of BarTiuess, By Florence

Warden. Author of " The House on the Marsh," &c.

•* A spirited melodrama, written with unflagging buoyancy, and overflowing
with exciting occurrences." — St. James's Gazette.

Polka. (Popular Edition of '' Christmas AngeL")
By B. L. Faejeon.

*' A gem of truthful, powerful, poetic writing, and the striking originality of
conception and idea, which distinguishes it throughout, marks it as a work
apart." — Morning Advertiser.

Oliver's Bride. A Modem story. By Mes.
Oliphant. Tenth thousand.

'* A perfect gem." — Vanity Fair.

A powerful story, told in elegant English Full of dramatic

power." — Saturday Review.

The Bark House ; a Knot Unravelled.

By George Manville Fenn. New and Enlarged Edition.
Fifteenth thousand.
An inscrutable and bewildering mystery." — Pall Mall Gazette.

A Deadly Errand. By Max Hillary. Author

of '' Once for All," &c.
*' Not the sort of book people should read just before going to bed, because
when once taken up it is impossible to put it down until it is finished." —
Whitehall Review.

Eve at the Wheel. A story of Three Hundred

Virgins. By George Manville Fenn. Tenth thousand.

*' The story is unusually original, both in plot and treatment." — Manchester
Guardian.

A delightfully fresh and readable story." — Glasgow Herald.

Eaten Up. By^^EosTON."

A curiously engrossing story." — Society.
This spirited story. . . It is a novelette after the manner of the famous
series which were written by Haniet Martineau, that is to say it has beessi
written with a purpose, and it is remarkably well done"— Toxic Z 2me«.

^-'0

y^4^^^ ^

'f^;'-'r

'.•:!'

MV

\r .

I

^

mn .

U;-

^^''^•

'^

lllllllllllllllllllllllili

3 0112 045832653

.':!^^^rjif^,r-
